THE LEGACY OF CAIN

By Wilkie Collins

To

MRS. HENRY POWELL BARTLEY:

Permit me to add your name to my name, in publishing this novel. The pen which has written
my books cannot be more agreeably employed than in acknowledging what I owe to the pen which
has skillfully and patiently helped me, by copying my manuscripts for the printer.

WILKIE COLLINS.

Wimpole Street, 6th December, 1888.

THE LEGACY OF CAIN.

First Period: 1858-1859. EVENTS IN THE PRISON, RELATED BY THE GOVERNOR.

CHAPTER I. THE GOVERNOR EXPLAINS.

At the request of a person who has claims on me that I must not disown, I consent to look back
through a long interval of years and to describe events which took place within the walls of
an English prison during the earlier period of my appointment as Governor.

Viewing my task by the light which later experience casts on it, I think I shall act wisely
by exercising some control over the freedom of my pen.

I propose to pass over in silence the name of the town in which is situated the prison once
confided to my care. I shall observe a similar discretion in alluding to individuals--some
dead, some living, at the present time.

Being obliged to write of a woman who deservedly suffered the extreme penalty of the law, I
think she will be sufficiently identified if I call her The Prisoner. Of the four persons present
on the evening before her execution three may be distinguished one from the other by allusion
to their vocations in life. I here introduce them as The Chaplain, The Minister, and The Doctor.
The fourth was a young woman. She has no claim on my consideration; and, when she is mentioned,
her name may appear. If these reserves excite suspicion, I declare beforehand that they influence
in no way the sense of responsibility which commands an honest man to speak the truth.

CHAPTER II. THE MURDERESS ASKS QUESTIONS.

The first of the events which I must now relate was the conviction of The Prisoner for the
murder of her husband.

They had lived together in matrimony for little more than two years. The husband, a gentleman
by birth and education, had mortally offended his relations in marrying a woman of an inferior
rank of life. He was fast declining into a state of poverty, through his own reckless extravagance,
at the time when he met with his death at his wife's hand.

Without attempting to excuse him, he deserved, to my mind, some tribute of regret. It is not
to be denied that he was profligate in his habits and violent in his temper. But it is equally
true that he was affectionate in the domestic circle, and, when moved by wisely applied remonstrance,
sincerely penitent for sins committed under temptation that overpowered him. If his wife had
killed him in a fit of jealous rage--under provocation, be it remembered, which the witnesses
proved--she might have been convicted of manslaughter, and might have received a light sentence.
But the evidence so undeniably revealed deliberate and merciless premeditation, that the only
defense attempted by her counsel was madness, and the only alternative left to a righteous
jury was a verdict which condemned the woman to death. 

Equipped Juana of uncommon talent, a lively and ardent imagination, he was educated in a way
not common for that time: and especially in the Greco-Roman language, did admirable progress,
that he spoke with a charming ease. The sage says Luis Vives that any material which is treated
in this language, as if suddenly answered out in Castilian. These qualities unia of a slender
figure and very interesting, it was the type of beauty, full of grace and dignity, her big eyes,
expressive and ragged, denote the rare talent and energy of his soul, that which accompanied the
dignified and elegant manners of the court of Elizabeth, paragon of virtue and morality.

All these great circumstances, together with the power of their fathers, and of Doña Juana one of
those games more advantaged for any young prince in Europe. These same circumstances constituted
a creditor to be idolized princess, even for not I had the pleasure and honor to admire. Clear
proof that not long time some Princes to see what was what could be the owner of gem that is invaluable.
D. Fernando and Queen Elizabeth would not also extend their marriage, so I count only fifteen
years, ie, in 1494, adjusted to the desired wedding D. Philip, Archduke of Austria, Duke of Flanders,
Artois and the Tyrol, and the son of German Emperor Maximilian I. Adjusted they were, instantly
was begun preparations to march with the pomp and solemnity worthy of the daughter of such powerful
men. A fleet of twenty ships high board made ready in the port of Laredo, embarking on her fifteen
thousand men of war including crew. A Don Alonso Enriquez, Grand Admiral of Castile, was entrusted
with the command this fleet: D. went Chaplain Diego de Villaescusa, dean of Jaen, and the charge by
the king to serve and to be the immediate command of the princess, was Dona Teresa Velasco, wife
of the admiral who led this expedition. The camera and all destinations within membership
to his person, was served by ladies and gentlemen of the first nobility of Spain; so it says
in the lists of them is D. Lorenzo de Padilla. It is needless to mention clothes and jewelry
that were to adorn so August princess can be said for short which had been arranged with elegance
and profusion.

Preparations finished, went the whole royal family to the port of
Laredo Almazan, to dismiss them as Escelsa princess, except the king
D. Fernando found that holding of Cortes in Aragon, could not verify
it, very reluctantly.

The late Prince D. Juan, Joanna's brother, and his August mother accompanied her to the entrance
of the ship, where drowned in a sea of ​​tears, gave each other the most tender and loving
God. A God that echoed through every corner of the boat, in recognition to the real people
who were on the ground.
 Her next inquiries
succeeded each other rapidly, as follows:

"'Is my handsome preacher married?'

"'Yes.'

"'Has he got any children?'

"'He has never had any children.'

"'How long has he been married?'

"'As well as I know, about seven or eight years.

"'What sort of woman is his wife?'

"'A lady universally respected.'

"'I don't care whether she is respected or not. Is she kind?'

"'Certainly!'

"'Is her husband well off?'

"'He has a sufficient income.'

"After that reply, the Prisoner's curiosity appeared to be satisfied. She said, 'Bring your
friend the preacher to me, if you like'--and there it ended.

"What her object could have been in putting these questions, it seems to be impossible to guess.
Having accurately reported all that took place, the Chaplain declares, with heartfelt regret,
that he can exert no religious influence over this obdurate woman. He leaves it to the Governor
to decide whether the Minister of the Congregational Church may not succeed, where the Chaplain
of the Jail has failed. Herein is the one last hope of saving the soul of the Prisoner, now
under sentence of death!"

In those serious words the Memorandum ended. Although not personally acquainted with the Minister
I had heard of him, on all sides, as an excellent man. In the emergency that confronted us
he had, as it seemed to me, his own sacred right to enter the prison; assuming that he was
willing to accept, what I myself felt to be, a very serious responsibility. The first necessity
was to discover whether we might hope to obtain his services. With my full approval the Chaplain
left me, to state the circumstances to his reverend colleague.

CHAPTER III. THE CHILD APPEARS.

During my friend's absence, my attention was claimed by a sad incident--not unforeseen.

It is, I suppose, generally known that near relatives are admitted to take their leave of criminals
condemned to death. In the case of the Prisoner now waiting for execution, no person applied
to the authorities for permission to see her. I myself inquired if she had any relations living,
and if she would like to see them. She answered: "None that I care to see, or that care to
see me--except the nearest relation of all."

In those last words the miserable creature alluded to her only child, a little girl (an infant,
I should say), who had passed her first year's birthday by a few months. The farewell interview
was to take place on the mother's last evening on earth; and the child was now brought into
my rooms, in charge of her nurse.

I had seldom seen a brighter or prettier little girl. She was just able to walk alone, and
to enjoy the first delight of moving from one place to another. Quite of her own accord she
came to me, attracted I daresay by the glitter of my watch-chain. Helping her to climb on my
knee, I showed the wonders of the watch, and held it to her ear. At that past time, death had
taken my good wife from me; my two boys were away at Harrow School; my domestic life was the
life of a lonely man. Whether I was reminded of the bygone days when my sons were infants on
my knee, listening to the ticking of my watch--or whether the friendless position of the poor
little creature, who had lost one parent and was soon to lose the other by a violent death,
moved me in depths of pity not easily reached in my later experience--I am not able to say.
This only I know: my heart ached for the child while she was laughing and listening; and something
fell from me on the watch which I don't deny might have been a tear. A few of the toys, mostly
broken now, which my two children used to play with are still in my possession; kept, like
my poor wife's favorite jewels, for old remembrance' sake. These I took from their repository
when the attraction of my watch showed signs of failing. The child pounced on them with her
chubby hands, and screamed with pleasure. And the hangman was waiting for her mother--and,
more horrid still, the mother deserved it!

My duty required me to let the Prisoner know that her little daughter had arrived. Did that
heart of iron melt at last? It might have been so, or it might not; the message sent back kept
her secret. All that it said to me was: "Let the child wait till I send for her."

The Minister had consented to help us. On his arrival at the prison, I received him privately
in my study.

I had only to look at his face--pitiably pale and agitated--to see that he was a sensitive
man, not always able to control his nerves on occasions which tried his moral courage. A kind,
I might almost say a noble face, and a voice unaffectedly persuasive, at once prepossessed
me in his favor. The few words of welcome that I spoke were intended to compose him. They failed
to produce the impression on which I had counted.

"My experience," he said, "has included many melancholy duties, and has tried my composure
in terrible scenes; but I have never yet found myself in the presence of an unrepentant criminal,
sentenced to death--and that criminal a woman and a mother. I own, sir, that I am shaken by
the prospect before me."

I suggested that he should wait a while, in the hope that time and quiet might help him. He
thanked me, and refused.

"If I have any knowledge of myself," he said, "terrors of anticipation lose their hold when
I am face to face with a serious call on me. The longer I remain here, the less worthy I shall
appear of the trust that has been placed in me--the trust which, please God, I mean to deserve."

My own observation of human nature told me that this was wisely said. I led the way at once
to the cell.

CHAPTER IV. THE MINISTER SAYS YES.

The Prisoner was seated on her bed, quietly talking with the woman appointed to watch her.
When she rose to receive us, I saw the Minister start. The face that confronted him would,
in my opinion, have taken any man by surprise, if he had first happened to see it within the
walls of a prison.

Visitors to the picture-galleries of Italy, growing weary of Holy Families in endless succession,
observe that the idea of the Madonna, among the rank and file of Italian Painters, is limited
to one changeless and familiar type. I can hardly hope to be believed when I say that the personal
appearance of the murderess recalled that type. She presented the delicate light hair, the
quiet eyes, the finely-shaped lower features and the correctly oval form of face, repeated
in hundreds on hundreds of the conventional works of Art to which I have ventured to allude.
To those who doubt me, I can only declare that what I have here written is undisguised and
absolute truth. Let me add that daily observation of all classes of criminals, extending over
many years, has considerably diminished my faith in physiognomy as a safe guide to the discovery
of character. Nervous trepidation looks like guilt. Guilt, firmly sustained by insensibility,
looks like innocence. One of the vilest wretches ever placed under my charge won the sympathies
(while he was waiting for his trial) of every person who saw him, including even the persons
employed in the prison. Only the other day, ladies and gentlemen coming to visit me passed
a body of men at work on the road. Judges of physiognomy among them were horrified at the criminal
atrocity betrayed in every face that they noticed. 

In one of these journeys he made friends with a priest of the Society of Jesus, was going to
India to take part in the evangelical work of his brothers. The painting that him of his institute,
and the advantages it offered to those who expressed zeal and talents, made so vivid impression
on the mind of young Quiroga, decided at once to take the habit of San Ignacio. His superiors
encouraged him to not abandon their studies, in which was well advanced, and they do not need
incentives, offered him a chair mathematics, which expressly established school in Buenos Aires.

The
services of the new teacher, helpful to his students, were in a more
transcendental for the Government, which for lack of a physician,
he was sometimes unable to important questions for public service.

Such was the course they should followed in the measurement of land in the aegis of the city, and that
have not been well identified in the concessions of the first settlers, cast doubt on its boundaries,
removing titles to their main requirement.

The governor D. Domingo Ortiz de Rosas, who in 1744 was invested with supreme command of these provinces,
entrusted this task to P. Quiroga, who was consulted since preference
in all scientific enterprises.

When the court of Spain sent to explore the accessible parts of the
Patagonian coast, and More to the point to establish populations,
pilots Varela and Ramirez, who came to board the frigate San Antonio,
they were associated Fr Quiroga, whose diary served to P. Lozano to
draft that we published the first volume of our collection.

On his return from this mission, Fr. the Company was commissioned to map the territory Mission:
- vast and difficult work, not just by the nature of the terrain,
but because of lack materials and resources.

Despite these obstacles, accepted P. Quiroga this assignment, and then have determined with accuracy
neat geographical position of the thirty towns Missions, and the cities of the Assumption, Corrientes,
Santa Fe, Colonia, Montevideo and Buenos Aires, drew his map with the data supplied him edit and
relationships unpublished for the missionaries, when it was possible to buy it personally.

This work, which has no more merit in the day as your priority, was published in Rome in 1753,
by Fernando Franceschelli intaglio, which, according to the custom
of time, added some news on the banks of the Paraguay, and grade standings
latitude and longitude, according to the author's observations.

One of the most inaccurate parts of this map is the course of the river Paraguay, and was precisely
that the P. Quiroga had the opportunity to rectify shortly after,
when in 1752 he accompanied the Spanish commissioner, D. Manuel Antonio
de Flores, in charge of putting the framework divisive Jaurú's mouth,
in compliance with Article 6 of the treaty, set in Madrid in 13 January
1750.

This recognition that only fruit of laborious negotiations, was the last service the government
for this religious scholar, and is also the most honored his memory. In this diary availed
D. Luis de la Cruz Cano Olmedilla for the formation of his large
map of America Southern, which was published in Madrid in 1775, and
reproduced by Faden in London in 1799, was adopted by Arrowsmith in
1811.

This document would have met the fate of almost all the work of the last Jesuit in these regions,
had it not been for the care of P. Sunday Muriel (or Ciriaco Morelli and struck him in his work
called), which was inserted in the appendix to his Latin version
History of Paraguay P. Charlevoix, where we have extracted.

Circumscribed to the duties of their state, P. Quiroga resigned himself to a secluded life in
the College of Belen, where he was intimidated by the decree of suppression
of his order in 1767.

Expelled from his adopted country, without being allowed to return to their own, sought an asylum
in Italy, where he ended his days, no more comfort than that provided by the religion to a
guilt-free conscience.

Buenos Aires, June 1836.

PEDRO DE ANGELIS.

* * *

DESCRIPTION OF PARAGUAY RIVER.

§. I.

Origin of the Paraguay River, and rivers that enter it, to its junction with the Parana.

The Paraguay River has its origin in a great chain of mountains, which stretches from east to west for
hundreds of miles, passing north of Cuiaba. In this range down to many streams and creeks south,
which together form a mighty fine river, which begins to be waterway
fifty or sixty leagues above the Xaurú.

And all the Paraguay river, from that mountains to the city of the Seven Streams, where concurs
with the Paraná, it is also navigable, even with large ships, but these are not the best to
overcome the current for which more apparent are the gigs of oars, launches and all kinds of
light xebecs.

From the river Xaurú above does not know that rivers of Paraguay come into consideration, but
is to believe that you enter some of the eastern part, because when it comes to Xaurú and plentiful.
The mouth of Xaurú is 16 degrees 25 minutes south latitude, and 320 degrees and 10 minutes
in length, counted from the island towards the eastern Fierro. Comes said river of the west and
is navigable by canoe for some leagues. Below are the Xaurú Paraguay divides into two branches
flowing. The more runs with narrow channel, but very deep, through Xarayes: and for this sail
our boats without pregnancy whatsoever.

The other arm is for some miles along the western side of the Xarayes. And this, before returning
to join the first, perhaps Guabis enter the river, which runs from the peoples of the Chiquitos
towards the east, unless it be that the Guabis into a bend Caracará the lagoon, which communicates
with the Paraguay river almost at the bottom of the Xarayes.

Below Xarayes enters the eastern part in the Paraguay river of Porrudos, at the height of 17
degrees and 52 minutes. This river is very plentiful, and it enters in Cuiaba, as will be elsewhere.
Another arm of this same river falls below, and give the Portuguese the name of the Chiana Canal,
and he come up with their canoes to sailing Cuyabá Paulistas.

Tacuarí river, which also brings its current eastern part comes in Paraguay by three-neck, all waterways.
The northernmost, where lowering Paulist is 19 degrees. In the same part of the East with
great power comes Mboteteí river at 19 degrees and 20 minutes. In the southern margin of Mboteteí
was formerly a Spanish population, it was called Xerez, which is
forsaken by the persecutions they were suffering from the Paulist.

It was this population to thirty leagues from the Paraguay River, at the foot of the great ridge
that extends north-south between the rivers Paraná and Paraguay. In the great floods Mboteteí down
by many tacuaras, or very thick reeds, torn from their margins, which
are many on the banks of the river Paraguay.

And it is very repairable, which in any the margin of this river, from the Mboteteí above,
is not a tacuara.

From Mboteteí, down the Paraguay River, is the strait that now call St. Xavier, including some hills,
19 degrees and 48 minutes. One of the hills is in the eastern margin the river, and four or five
are in the western side.

Another notable Paraguay narrowness is below the three hills that are to the the west, called
the Three Brothers, at the foot of another high hill, called Bread Sugar, about twelve leagues
below the Three Brothers, and is the highest of all who found from the Assumption to Tacuarí.
Is on the eastern margin, and from there continued a ridge towards the east. There in the
west, in front of Pan de Azucar, another small hill and some distance to the part of the north-west,
is another not very big. The narrow aforesaid, and the Sugar Loaf, are at 21 degrees 17 minutes.

It is then, down the Paraguay, the river mouth Tepotí at 21 degrees 45 minutes. Then in front
of an island, or something above, is the mouth of the river currents, so called by the mainstream
that it brings. This river has its origin next to the fountain of
Guatimí that Paraná enters the big jump.

The river flows into the Paraguay Currents in 22 degrees and 2 minutes. Two or three miles away
is the south-west the hill Galvan, it is only in the western side. This lower part of this a
bunch of great mountains. At the south side of the river are too many hills and narrow with
strong currents, with peñasquería the sides of the river, and called this step Itapucú-wolf.
Is at 22 degrees and 10 minutes. Below is a tip that is another narrow ridge, and ends this
rock tip cut off, and lies about eight miles from the Itapucú-wolf.

Sign in below, on the eastern margin, the Rio Guarambaré in 23 degrees 8 minutes, and in front
of the mouth is an island.

For the 23 degrees and 21 minutes are scattered stones middle of the river, so in this stage
should navigate with caution. Ipan river-wolf flows into the Paraguay, at latitude 23 degrees
28 minutes. His mouth is facing a island. Download this river of yerba mate that are north
of Curuguatí, and has its origin near the Guatimí. In the 23 degrees 51 minutes between the Paraguay,
on the western margin, the Cookers river, and a short distance below the same band enters the Verde
River. Al front of these two rivers there are four islands. Lower in the Banda Oriental enters
mini Ipan in 21 degrees and 2 minutes.

Ipan below the mini, in 24 degrees and 4 minutes, we found that looked straight needle to the
north, and can not be attributed to other causes to the proximity of some iron ore stone or
magnet, of which there is enough in the jurisdiction of Paraguay. In the 24 degrees and 7 minutes
between the Banda Oriental Xexuí the river, which comes from the
Curuguatí yerbales, and perhaps sailing ships loaded with grass, although
much work, missteps you have.

In the 24 degrees and 23 minutes between, on the east, the Cuarepotí: in 24 degrees and 29
minutes, the Ibobi. But 50 minutes down on the same level, enters the same side of the Tobatí
in an arm of Paraguay, whose entrance into the tip of the island is further south (and the
first tip when it comes up in the arm), two stones who come to the
flower water, which should be departing ships, or to take course at
the river wider, leaving the eastern part of the island.

In the Tobatí fit, before his fall in Paraguay, the river Capiatá.

In the 24 degrees 56 minutes will go to Paraguay, in the west, the river Mboicaé. In 24 and
58, little above the fort of Arecutacuá, enter through the east the Peribebuí, and more down,
in 25 gr. and a minute, go on the same side the river Salado. Deep down, almost at the same height,
enter the western margin Piraí river.

The city of Assumption is 25 gr.

17 min. 15 seconds of latitude, 320 gr. 12 min. of length, according to some markers. Others found
25, 16, latitude 320, 10 in length. Deep down is via three mouths, the West Bank, the famous
river Pilcomayo, which brings its waters cerranias Potosi, and runs through the Chaco. In the
25 gr. 32 min. Paraguay makes a narrow entrance, taking only a rifle shot from a river to another,
and is At this place the fort called La Angostura. The Tebicuari enter Paraguay by the east,
in 26 gr. 35 min. Down by the river boats of Our Lady of Santa Fe and Rosa.

The Rio Grande, or Bermejo enters the Paraguay by the West in 26 gr. 54 min., And her mouth is
far the city of Corrientes eleven leagues from the air, the river is 17, or 18. Comes Bermejo
of the mountains that are between Salta and Tarija: through much of the Chaco: the color of its
waters is something vermilion. In coming together with Paraguay, infects waters it, so that
the water is unhealthy until concurs in Corrientes Parana. They join the rivers Paraná and Paraguay
at the forefront of this city, which is located on the eastern margin, at 27 degrees and 27
minutes latitude, 319 and 55 minutes in length. Seven Flames of Corrientes city, because the
land where the city is, for seven stone points, leaving the river,
where the current is stronger Paraná.

From here loses the name Paraguay, because the Paraná, but mighty
as yours keeps up near Buenos Aires, where, along with Uruguay, flows
into the sea with the name of Rio de la Plata, so named because brought
from here some articles of silver and gold the first conquerors of
Paraguay, which had brought jewelry Indians in Paraguay first entry
made to the people of Peru with Alejo Garcia and his colleagues, according
to is written in Argentina Rui Diaz de Guzman.

* * *

§. II.

Nations of Indians living on the banks of Paraguay.

First in the same river, and its islands, inhabited by two factions of Indians Payaguá, who
walk all over him in their canoes, and kept fishing, and what to steal Spanish and Portuguese. A
bias has a room in the northernmost part of the river, and its principal chief called Quatí. The
other is usually more frequently in the southern part, in the proximity of the Assumption. The
principal chief of this is called Ipar.

On the banks of the river, starting from its junction with the Paraná,
live to the west, Abipones, of which number is reduced to people.

Others, with their friends Tuffs and Bermejo River Mocobís make incursions across the borders
of Santa Fe, Cordoba, Santiago del Estero, Salta and Jujuí, and sometimes from Paraná, make their
shots in the jurisdiction of Corrientes, and often from the river Paraguay and ambushes in the
mountains, make significant damage to the northernmost village of
the Guarani missions, and stays the jurisdiction of Paraguay.

The Indians arrive in the western part of Paraguay to the Pilcomayo.

From the Pilcomayo begins the land of the languages, which are all that part of the Chaco, the
Pilcomayo to the land of the Mbayas, and also pass Paraguay, to make their shots into the rooms
of the Assumption. These Indians are no headquarters, nor do they support missionaries.

From the river Xexuí the one and another band, live the Mbayas, divided into several installments.
Its main tolderías are the first and second band of Paraguay, the lands most immediate the
south of Pan de Azucar. These Indians are all the earth, from the Tacuarí Xexuí by the Eastern
and Western, until near the Chiquitos. From the Sugar Loaf towards the north western side living in
the manure. These are Indians who work their land to plant corn, and also make their crops to
the Mbayas, paying these your work. Above the Tacuarí there, in the river of Porrudos, similar
to other Indians way of life to the Payaguá, but of more value, and
excellent archers.

Judge is not many nations, they do not fall in their canoes to the
river Paraguay.

The Portuguese, sailing by Xarayes from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, said
that some trees there, in waterlogged Xaraya is allowed to see some
Indians, though few.

Do not know what nation they are.

Can be some relics of the Xarayes. Up here I do not know that Indians inhabit some on the banks
of the river Paraguay.

* * *

§. III.

Mountains and trees.

The Creator of all things gave us adjoining lands a nice Paraguay River object to the eye, with
admirable variety of mountains, hills, plains and forests. From Flows to the river Xexuí there by
a forest and another band with a great variety of plants. But the above is greater Xexuí charm the
eyes, because sometimes you discover a bouquet of the mountain all covered with trees, other
times it is a campaign full of grass very green, others are huge
palm trees, a particular species of palms, because Logs are soaring
and rights, hardwood and round crown, with similar branches to the
palm of making brooms in Andalucia.

Nor can find anything more apropos swiftly to form the roofs of the houses, because in removing
the glass, and cutting the trunk by the foot, there's no more to do to apply to the work. These
palm trees are common from the fields Xexuí to Xerez. And as the logs are very clean, walk the
Indians horseback through the palm, without any pregnancy. The clusters of dates of these palms
are smaller than regular palm, and dates are also smaller in proportion. I do not know if they are edible.

Generally
speaking, all the hills and mountains are in many mountain slopes
with tall trees and very thick trunk. And there is no doubt that they
would be, with so variety, precious woods. We found by chance the
tree where they get the rubber guta, or gamboge, which is a paste
of very fine yellow. The tall tree, not too thick, sheet similar to
that of the laurel. He uncovered the tree giving some cuts for entertainment
in the bark of one of this species.

We both looked round and saw the Minister standing in the open doorway, with the child in his
arms. The ordeal that he had gone through in the condemned cell was visible in his face; he
looked miserably haggard and broken. I was eager to know if his merciful interest in the Prisoner
had purified her guilty soul--but at the same time I was afraid, after what he had but too
plainly suffered, to ask him to enter into details.

"Only one word," I said. "Are your anxieties at rest?"

"God's mercy has helped me," he answered. "I have not spoken in vain. She believes; she repents;
she has confessed the crime."

After handing the written and signed confession to me, he approached the venomous creature,
still lingering in the room to hear what passed between us. Before I could stop him, he spoke
to her, under a natural impression that he was addressing the Prisoner's servant.

"I am afraid you will be disappointed," he said, "when I tell you that your services will no
longer be required. I have reasons for placing the child under the care of a nurse of my own
choosing."

She listened with an evil smile.

"I know who furnished you with your reasons," she answered. "Apologies are quite needless,
so far as I am concerned. If you had proposed to me to look after the new member of your family
there, I should have felt it my duty to myself to have refused. I am not a nurse--I am an independent
single lady. I see by your dress that you are a clergyman. Allow me to present myself as a
mark of respect to your cloth. I am Miss Elizabeth Chance. May I ask the favor of your name?"

Too weary and too preoccupied to notice the insolence of her manner, the Minister mentioned
his name. "I am anxious," he said, "to know if the child has been baptized. Perhaps you can
enlighten me?"

Still insolent, Miss Elizabeth Chance shook her head carelessly. "I never heard--and, to tell
you the truth, I never cared to hear--whether she was christened or not. Call her by what name
you like, I can tell you this--you will find your adopted daughter a heavy handful."

The Minister turned to me. "What does she mean?"

"I will try to tell you," Miss Chance interposed. "Being a clergyman, you know who Deborah
was? Very well. I am Deborah now; and I prophesy." She pointed to the child. "Remember what
I say, reverend sir! You will find the tigress-cub take after its mother."

With those parting words, she favored us with a low curtsey, and left the room.

CHAPTER VI. THE DOCTOR DOUBTS.

The Minister looked at me in an absent manner; his attention seemed to have been wandering.
"What was it Miss Chance said?" he asked.

Before I could speak, a friend's voice at the door interrupted us. The Doctor, returning to
me as he had promised, answered the Minister's question in these words:

"I must have passed the person you mean, sir, as I was coming in here; and I heard her say:
'You will find the tigress-cub take after its mother.' If she had known how to put her meaning
into good English, Miss Chance--that is the name you mentioned, I think--might have told you
that the vices of the parents are inherited by the children. And the one particular parent
she had in her mind," the Doctor continued, gently patting the child's cheek, "was no doubt
the mother of this unfortunate little creature--who may, or may not, live to show you that
she comes of a bad stock and inherits a wicked nature."

I was on the point of protesting against my friend's interpretation, when the Minister stopped me.

"Let me thank you, sir, for your explanation," he said to the Doctor. "As soon as my mind is
free, I will reflect on what you have said. Forgive me, Mr. Governor," he went on, "if I leave
you, now that I have placed the Prisoner's confession in your hands. It has been an effort
to me to say the little I have said, since I first entered this room. I can think of nothing
but that unhappy criminal, and the death that she must die to-morrow."

"Does she wish you to be present?" I asked.

"She positively forbids it. 'After what you have done for me,' she said, 'the least I can do
in return is to prevent your being needlessly distressed.' She took leave of me; she kissed
the little girl for the last time--oh, don't ask me to tell you about it! I shall break down
if I try. Come, my darling!" He kissed the child tenderly, and took her away with him.

"That man is a strange compound of strength and weakness," the Doctor remarked. "Did you notice
his face, just now? Nine men out of ten, suffering as he suffered, would have failed to control
themselves. Such resolution as his may conquer the difficulties that are in store for him yet."

It was a trial of my temper to hear my clever colleague justifying, in this way, the ignorant
prediction of an insolent woman.

"There are exceptions to all rules," I insisted. "And why are the virtues of the parents not
just as likely to descend to the children as the vices? There was a fund of good, I can tell
you, in that poor baby's father--though I don't deny that he was a profligate man. And even
the horrible mother--as you heard just now--has virtue enough left in her to feel grateful
to the man who has taken care of her child. These are facts; you can't dispute them."

The Doctor took out his pipe. "Do you mind my smoking?" he asked. "Tobacco helps me to arrange
my ideas."

I gave him the means of arranging his ideas; that is to say, I gave him the match-box. He blew
some preliminary clouds of smoke and then he answered me:

"For twenty years past, my friend, I have been studying the question of hereditary transmission
of qualities; and I have found vices and diseases descending more frequently to children than
virtue and health. I don't stop to ask why: there is no end to that sort of curiosity. What
I have observed is what I tell you; no more and no less. You will say this is a horribly discouraging
result of experience, for it tends to show that children come into the world at a disadvantage
on the day of their birth. Of course they do. Children are born deformed; children are born
deaf, dumb, or blind; children are born with the seeds in them of deadly diseases. Who can
account for the cruelties of creation? Why are we endowed with life--only to end in death?
And does it ever strike you, when you are cutting your mutton at dinner, and your cat is catching
its mouse, and your spider is suffocating its fly, that we are all, big and little together,
born to one certain inheritance--the privilege of eating each other?"

"Very sad," I admitted. "But it will all be set right in another world."

"Are you quite sure of that?" the Doctor asked.

"Quite sure, thank God! And it would be better for you if you felt about it as I do."

"We won't dispute, my dear Governor. I don't scoff at comforting hopes; I don't deny the existence
of occasional compensations. But I do see, nevertheless, that Evil has got the upper hand among
us, on this curious little planet. Judging by my observation and experience, that ill-fated
baby's chance of inheriting the virtues of her parents is not to be compared with her chances
of inheriting their vices; especially if she happens to take after her mother. There the virtue
is not conspicuous, and the vice is one enormous fact. When I think of the growth of that poisonous
hereditary taint, which may come with time--when I think of passions let loose and temptations
lying in ambush--I see the smooth surface of the Minister's domestic life with dangers lurking
under it which make me shake in my shoes. God! what a life I should lead, if I happened to
be in his place, some years hence. Suppose I said or did something (in the just exercise of
my parental authority) which offended my adopted daughter. What figure would rise from the
dead in my memory, when the girl bounced out of the room in a rage? The image of her mother
would be the image I should see. I should remember what her mother did when she was provoked;
I should lock my bedroom door, in my own house, at night. I should come down to breakfast with
suspicions in my cup of tea, if I discovered that my adopted daughter had poured it out. Oh,
yes; it's quite true that I might be doing the girl a cruel injustice all the time; but how
am I to be sure of that? I am only sure that her mother was hanged for one of the most merciless
murders committed in our time. Pass the match-box. My pipe's out, and my confession of faith
has come to an end."

It was useless to dispute with a man who possessed his command of language. At the same time,
there was a bright side to the poor Minister's prospects which the Doctor had failed to see.
It was barely possible that I might succeed in putting my positive friend in the wrong. I tried
the experiment, at any rate.

"You seem to have forgotten," I reminded him, "that the child will have every advantage that
education can offer to her, and will be accustomed from her earliest years to restraining and
purifying influences, in a clergyman's household."

Now that he was enjoying the fumes of tobacco, the Doctor was as placid and sweet-tempered
as a man could be.

"Quite true," he said.

"Do you doubt the influence of religion?" I asked sternly.

He answered, sweetly: "Not at all"

"Or the influence of kindness?"

"Oh, dear, no!"

"Or the force of example?"

"I wouldn't deny it for the world."

I had not expected this extraordinary docility. The Doctor had got the upper hand of me again--a
state of things that I might have found it hard to endure, but for a call of duty which put
an end to our sitting. One of the female warders appeared with a message from the condemned
cell. The Prisoner wished to see the Governor and the Medical Officer.

"Is she ill?" the Doctor inquired.

"No, sir."

"Hysterical? or agitated, perhaps?"

"As easy and composed, sir, as a person can be."

We set forth together for the condemned cell.

CHAPTER VII. THE MURDERESS CONSULTS THE AUTHORITIES.

There was a considerate side to my friend's character, which showed itself when the warder
had left us.

He was especially anxious to be careful of what he said to a woman in the Prisoner's terrible
situation; especially in the event of her having been really subjected to the influence of
religious belief. On the Minister's own authority, I declared that there was every reason to
adopt this conclusion; and in support of what I had said I showed him the confession. It only
contained a few lines, acknowledging that she had committed the murder and that she deserved
her sentence. "From the planning of the crime to the commission of the crime, I was in my right
senses throughout. I knew what I was doing." With that remarkable disavowal of the defense
set up by her advocate, the confession ended.

My colleague read the paper, and handed it back to me without making any remark. I asked if
he suspected the Prisoner of feigning conversion to please the Minister.

"She shall not discover it," he answered, gravely, "if I do."

It would not be true to say that the Doctor's obstinacy had shaken my belief in the good result
of the Minister's interference. I may, however, acknowledge that I felt some misgivings, which
were not dispelled when I found myself in the presence of the Prisoner.

I had expected to see her employed in reading the Bible. The good book was closed and was not
even placed within her reach. The occupation to which she was devoting herself astonished and
repelled me.

Some carelessness on the part of the attendant had left on the table the writing materials
that had been needed for her confession. She was using them now--when death on the scaffold
was literally within a few hours of her--to sketch a portrait of the female warder, who was
on the watch! The Doctor and I looked at each other; and now the sincerity of her repentance
was something that I began to question, too.

She laid down the pen, and proceeded quietly to explain herself.

"Even the little time that is left to me proves to be a weary time to get through," she said.
"I am making a last use of the talent for drawing and catching a likeness, which has been one
of my gifts since I was a girl. You look as if you didn't approve of such employment as this
for a woman who is going to be hanged. Well, sir, I have no doubt you are right." She paused,
and tore up the portrait. "If I have misbehaved myself," she resumed, "I make amends. To find
you in an indulgent frame of mind is of importance to me just now. I have a favor to ask of
you. May the warder leave the cell for a few minutes?"

Giving the woman permission to withdraw for a while, I waited with some anxiety to hear what
the Prisoner wanted of me.

"I have something to say to you," she proceeded, "on the subject of executions. The face of
a person who is going to be hanged is hidden, as I have been told, by a white cap drawn over
it. Is that true?"

How another man might have felt, in my place, I cannot, of course, say. To my mind, such a
question--on her lips--was too shocking to be answered in words. I bowed.

"And the body is buried," she went on, "in the prison?"

I could remain silent no longer. "Is there no human feeling left in you?" I burst out. "What
do these horrid questions mean?"

"Don't be angry with me, sir; you shall hear directly. I want to know first if I am to be buried
in the prison?"

I replied as before, by a bow.

"Now," she said, "I may tell you what I mean. In the autumn of last year I was taken to see
some waxworks. Portraits of criminals were among them. There was one portrait--" She hesitated;
her infernal self-possession failed her at last. The color left her face; she was no longer
able to look at me firmly. "There was one portrait," she resumed, "that had been taken after
the execution. The face was so hideous; it was swollen to such a size in its frightful deformity--oh,
sir, don't let me be seen in that state, even by the strangers who bury me! Use your influence--forbid
them to take the cap off my face when I am dead--order them to bury me in it, and I swear to
you I'll meet death tomorrow as coolly as the boldest man that ever mounted the scaffold!"
Before I could stop her, she seized me by the hand, and wrung it with a furious power that
left the mark of her grasp on me, in a bruise, for days afterward. "Will you do it?" she cried.
"You're an honorable man; you will keep your word. Give me your promise!"

I gave her my promise.

The relief to her tortured spirit expressed itself horribly in a burst of frantic laughter.
"I can't help it," she gasped; "I'm so happy."

My enemies said of me, when I got my appointment, that I was too excitable a man to be governor
of a prison. Perhaps they were not altogether wrong. Anyhow, the quick-witted Doctor saw some
change in me, which I was not aware of myself. He took my arm and led me out of the cell. "Leave
her to me," he whispered. "The fine edge of my nerves was worn off long ago in the hospital."

When we met again, I asked what had passed between the Prisoner and himself.

"I gave her time to recover," he told me; "and, except that she looked a little paler than
usual, there was no trace left of the frenzy that you remember. 'I ought to apologize for troubling
you,' she said; 'but it is perhaps natural that I should think, now and then, of what is to
happen to me to-morrow morning. As a medical man, you will be able to enlighten me. Is death
by hanging a painful death?' She had put it so politely that I felt bound to answer her. 'If
the neck happens to be broken,' I said, 'hanging is a sudden death; fright and pain (if there
is any pain) are both over in an instant. As to the other form of death which is also possible
(I mean death by suffocation), I must own as an honest man that I know no more about it than
you do.' After considering a little, she made a sensible remark, and followed it by an embarrassing
request. 'A great deal,' she said, 'must depend on the executioner. I am not afraid of death,
Doctor. Why should I be? My anxiety about my little girl is set at rest; I have nothing left
to live for. But I don't like pain. Would you mind telling the executioner to be careful? Or
would it be better if I spoke to him myself?' I said I thought it would come with a better
grace from herself. She understood me directly; and we dropped the subject. Are you surprised
at her coolness, after your experience of her?"

I confessed that I was surprised.

"Think a little," the Doctor said. "The one sensitive place in that woman's nature is the place
occupied by her self-esteem."

I objected to this that she had shown fondness for her child.

My friend disposed of the objection with his customary readiness.

"The maternal instinct," he said. "A cat is fond of her kittens; a cow is fond of her calf.
No, sir, the one cause of that outbreak of passion which so shocked you--a genuine outbreak,
beyond all doubt--is to be found in the vanity of a fine feminine creature, overpowered by
a horror of looking hideous, even after her death. Do you know I rather like that woman?"

"Is it possible that you are in earnest?" I asked.

"I know as well as you do," he answered, "that this is neither a time nor a place for jesting.
The fact is, the Prisoner carries out an idea of mine. It is my positive conviction that the
worst murders--I mean murders deliberately planned--are committed by persons absolutely deficient
in that part of the moral organization which feels. The night before they are hanged they sleep.
On their last morning they eat a breakfast. Incapable of realizing the horror of murder, they
are incapable of realizing the horror of death. Do you remember the last murderer who was hanged
here--a gentleman's coachman who killed his wife? He had but two anxieties while he was waiting
for execution. One was to get his allowance of beer doubled, and the other was to be hanged
in his coachman's livery. No! no! these wretches are all alike; they are human creatures born
with the temperaments of tigers. Take my word for it, we need feel no anxiety about to-morrow.
The Prisoner will face the crowd round the scaffold with composure; and the people will say,
'She died game.'"

CHAPTER VIII. THE MINISTER SAYS GOOD-BY.

The Capital Punishment of the Prisoner is in no respect connected with my purpose in writing
the present narrative. Neither do I desire to darken these pages by describing in detail an
act of righteous retribution which must present, by the nature of it, a scene of horror. For
these reasons I ask to be excused, if I limit what I must needs say of the execution within
the compass of a few words--and pass on.

The one self-possessed person among us was the miserable woman who suffered the penalty of death.

Not very discreetly, as I think, the Chaplain asked her if she had truly repented. She answered:
"I have confessed the crime, sir. What more do you want?" To my mind--still hesitating between
the view that believes with the Minister, and the view that doubts with the Doctor--this reply
leaves a way open to hope of her salvation. Her last words to me, as she mounted the steps
of the scaffold, were: "Remember your promise." It was easy for me to be true to my word. At
that bygone time, no difficulties were placed in my way by such precautions as are now observed
in the conduct of executions within the walls of the prison. From the time of her death to
the time of her burial, no living creature saw her face. She rests, veiled in her prison grave.

Let me now turn to living interests, and to scenes removed from the thunder-clouds of crime.

.......

On the next day I received a visit from the Minister.

His first words entreated me not to allude to the terrible event of the previous day. "I cannot
escape thinking of it," he said, "but I may avoid speaking of it." This seemed to me to be
the misplaced confidence of a weak man in the refuge of silence. By way of changing the subject,
I spoke of the child. There would be serious difficulties to contend with (as I ventured to
suggest), if he remained in the town, and allowed his new responsibilities to become the subject
of public talk.

His reply to this agreeably surprised me. There were no difficulties to be feared.

The state of his wife's health had obliged him (acting under medical advice) to try the influence
of her native air. An interval of some months might elapse before the good effect of the change
had sufficiently declared itself; and a return to the peculiar climate of the town might bring
on a relapse. There had consequently been no alternative to but resign his charge. Only on
that day the resignation had been accepted--with expressions of regret sincerely reciprocated
by himself. He proposed to leave the town immediately; and one of the objects of his visit
was to bid me good-by.

"The next place I live in," he said, "will be more than a hundred miles away. At that distance
I may hope to keep events concealed which must be known only to ourselves. So far as I can
see, there are no risks of discovery lurking in this place. My servants (only two in number)
have both been born here, and have both told my wife that they have no wish to go away. As
to the person who introduced herself to me by the name of Miss Chance, she was traced to the
railway station yesterday afternoon, and took her ticket for London."

I congratulated the Minister on the good fortune which had befriended him, so far.

"You will understand how carefully I have provided against being deceived," he continued, "when
I tell you what my plans are. The persons among whom my future lot is cast--and the child herself,
of course--must never suspect that the new member of my family is other than my own daughter.
This is deceit, I admit; but it is deceit that injures no one. I hope you see the necessity
for it, as I do."

There could be no doubt of the necessity.

If the child was described as adopted, there would be curiosity about the circumstances, and
inquiries relating to the parents. Prevaricating replies lead to suspicion, and suspicion to
discovery. But for the wise course which the Minister had decided on taking, the poor child's
life might have been darkened by the horror of the mother's crime, and the infamy of the mother's
death.

Having quieted my friend's needless scruples by this perfectly sincere expression of opinion,
I ventured to approach the central figure in his domestic circle, by means of a question relating
to his wife. How had that lady received the unfortunate little creature, for whose appearance
on the home-scene she must have been entirely unprepared?

The Minister's manner showed some embarrassment; he prefaced what he had to tell me with praises
of his wife, equally creditable no doubt to both of them. The beauty of the child, the pretty
ways of the child, he said, fascinated the admirable woman at first sight. It was not to be
denied that she had felt, and had expressed, misgivings, on being informed of the circumstances
under which the Minister's act of mercy had been performed. But her mind was too well balanced
to incline to this state of feeling, when her husband had addressed her in defense of his conduct.
She then understood that the true merit of a good action consisted in patiently facing the
sacrifices involved. Her interest in the new daughter being, in this way, ennobled by a sense
of Christian duty, there had been no further difference of opinion between the married pair.

I listened to this plausible explanation with interest, but, at the same time, with doubts
of the lasting nature of the lady's submission to circumstances; suggested, perhaps, by the
constraint in the Minister's manner. It was well for both of us when we changed the subject.
He reminded me of the discouraging view which the Doctor had taken of the prospect before him.

"I will not attempt to decide whether your friend is right or wrong," he said. "Trusting, as
I do, in the mercy of God, I look hopefully to a future time when all that is brightest and
best in the nature of my adopted child will be developed under my fostering care. If evil tendencies
show themselves, my reliance will be confidently placed on pious example, on religious instruction,
and, above all, on intercession by prayer. Repeat to your friend," he concluded, "what you
have just heard me say. Let him ask himself if he could confront the uncertain future with
my cheerful submission and my steadfast hope."

He intrusted me with that message, and gave me his hand. So we parted.

I agreed with him, I admired him; but my faith seemed to want sustaining power, as compared
with his faith. On his own showing (as it appeared to me), there would be two forces in a state
of conflict in the child's nature as she grew up--inherited evil against inculcated good. Try
as I might, I failed to feel the Minister's comforting conviction as to which of the two would win.

CHAPTER IX. THE GOVERNOR RECEIVES A VISIT.

A few days after the good man had left us, I met with a serious accident, caused by a false
step on the stone stairs of the prison.

The long illness which followed this misfortune, and my removal afterward (in the interests
of my recovery) to a milder climate than the climate of England, obliged me to confide the
duties of governor of the prison to a representative. I was absent from my post for rather
more than a year. During this interval no news reached me from my reverend friend.

Having returned to the duties of my office, I thought of writing to the Minister. While the
proposed letter was still in contemplation, I was informed that a lady wished to see me. She
sent in her card. My visitor proved to be the Minister's wife.

I observed her with no ordinary attention when she entered the room.

Her dress was simple; her scanty light hair, so far as I could see it under her bonnet, was
dressed with taste. The paleness of her lips, and the faded color in her face, suggested that
she was certainly not in good health. Two peculiarities struck me in her personal appearance.
I never remembered having seen any other person with such a singularly narrow and slanting
forehead as this lady presented; and I was impressed, not at all agreeably, by the flashing
shifting expression in her eyes. On the other hand, let me own that I was powerfully attracted
and interested by the beauty of her voice. Its fine variety of compass, and its musical resonance
of tone, fell with such enchantment on the ear, that I should have liked to put a book of poetry
into her hand, and to have heard her read it in summer-time, accompanied by the music of a
rocky stream.

The object of her visit--so far as she explained it at the outset--appeared to be to offer
her congratulations on my recovery, and to tell me that her husband had assumed the charge
of a church in a large town not far from her birthplace.

Even those commonplace words were made interesting by her delicious voice. But however sensitive
to sweet sounds a man may be, there are limits to his capacity for deceiving himself--especially
when he happens to be enlightened by experience of humanity within the walls of a prison. I
had, it may be remembered, already doubted the lady's good temper, judging from her husband's
over-wrought description of her virtues. Her eyes looked at me furtively; and her manner, gracefully
self-possessed as it was, suggested that she had something of a delicate, or disagreeable,
nature to say to me, and that she was at a loss how to approach the subject so as to produce
the right impression on my mind at the outset. There was a momentary silence between us. For
the sake of saying something, I asked how she and the Minister liked their new place of residence.

"Our new place of residence," she answered, "has been made interesting by a very unexpected
event--an event (how shall I describe it?) which has increased our happiness and enlarged our
family circle."

There she stopped: expecting me, as I fancied, to guess what she meant. A woman, and that woman
a mother, might have fulfilled her anticipations. A man, and that man not listening attentively,
was simply puzzled.

"Pray excuse my stupidity," I said; "I don't quite understand you."

The lady's temper looked at me out of the lady's shifting eyes, and hid itself again in a moment.
She set herself right in my estimation by taking the whole blame of our little misunderstanding
on her own innocent shoulders.

"I ought to have spoken more plainly," she said. "Let me try what I can do now. After many
years of disappointment in my married life, it has pleased Providence to bestow on me the happiness--the
inexpressible happiness--of being a mother. My baby is a sweet little girl; and my one regret
is that I cannot nurse her myself."

My languid interest in the Minister's wife was not stimulated by the announcement of this domestic
event.

I felt no wish to see the "sweet little girl"; I was not even reminded of another example of
long-deferred maternity, which had occurred within the limits of my own family circle. All
my sympathies attached themselves to the sad little figure of the adopted child. I remembered
the poor baby on my knee, enchanted by the ticking of my watch--I thought of her, peacefully
and prettily asleep under the horrid shelter of the condemned cell--and it is hardly too much
to say that my heart was heavy, when I compared her prospects with the prospects of her baby-rival.
Kind as he was, conscientious as he was, could the Minister be expected to admit to an equal
share in his love the child endeared to him as a father, and the child who merely reminded
him of an act of mercy? As for his wife, it seemed the merest waste of time to put her state
of feeling (placed between the two children) to the test of inquiry. I tried the useless experiment,
nevertheless.

"It is pleasant to think," I began, "that your other daughter--"

She interrupted me, with the utmost gentleness: "Do you mean the child that my husband was
foolish enough to adopt?"

"Say rather fortunate enough to adopt," I persisted. "As your own little girl grows up, she
will want a playfellow. And she will find a playfellow in that other child, whom the good Minister
has taken for his own."

"No, my dear sir--not if I can prevent it."

The contrast between the cruelty of her intention, and the musical beauty of the voice which
politely expressed it in those words, really startled me. I was at a loss how to answer her,
at the very time when I ought to have been most ready to speak.

"You must surely understand," she went on, "that we don't want another person's child, now
we have a little darling of our own?"

"Does your husband agree with you in that view?" I asked.

"Oh dear, no! He said what you said just now, and (oddly enough) almost in the same words.
But I don't at all despair of persuading him to change his mind--and you can help me."

She made that audacious assertion with such an appearance of feeling perfectly sure of me,
that my politeness gave way under the strain laid on it. "What do you mean?" I asked sharply.

Not in the least impressed by my change of manner, she took from the pocket of her dress a
printed paper. "You will find what I mean there," she replied--and put the paper into my hand.

It was an appeal to the charitable public, occasioned by the enlargement of an orphan-asylum,
with which I had been connected for many years. What she meant was plain enough now. I said
nothing: I only looked at her.

Pleased to find that I was clever enough to guess what she meant, on this occasion, the Minister's
wife informed me that the circumstances were all in our favor. She still persisted in taking
me into partnership--the circumstances were in our favor.

"In two years more," she explained, "the child of that detestable creature who was hanged--do
you know, I cannot even look at the little wretch without thinking of the gallows?--will be
old enough (with your interest to help us) to be received into the asylum. What a relief it
will be to get rid of that child! And how hard I shall work at canvassing for subscribers'
votes! Your name will be a tower of strength when I use it as a reference. Pardon me--you are
not looking so pleasantly as usual. Do you see some obstacles in our way?"

"I see two obstacles."

"What can they possibly be?"

For the second time, my politeness gave way under the strain laid on it. "You know perfectly
well," I said, "what one of the obstacles is."

"Am I to understand that you contemplate any serious resistance on the part of my husband?"

"Certainly!"

She was unaffectedly amused by my simplicity.

"Are you a single man?" she asked.

"I am a widower."

"Then your experience ought to tell you that I know every weak point in the Minister's character.
I can tell him, on your authority, that the hateful child will be placed in competent and kindly
hands--and I have my own sweet baby to plead for me. With these advantages in my favor, do
you actually suppose I can fail to make my way of thinking his way of thinking? You must have
forgotten your own married life! Suppose we go on to the second of your two obstacles. I hope
it will be better worth considering than the first."

"The second obstacle will not disappoint you," I answered; "I am the obstacle, this time."

"You refuse to help me?"

"Positively."

"Perhaps reflection may alter your resolution?"

"Reflection will do nothing of the kind."

"You are rude, sir!"

"In speaking to you, madam, I have no alternative but to speak plainly."

She rose. Her shifting eyes, for once, looked at me steadily.

"What sort of enemy have I made of you?" she asked. "A passive enemy who is content with refusing
to help me? Or an active enemy who will write to my husband?"

"It depends entirely," I told her, "on what your husband does. If he questions me about you,
I shall tell him the truth."

"And if not?"

"In that case, I shall hope to forget that you ever favored me with a visit."

In making this reply I was guiltless of any malicious intention. What evil interpretation she
placed on my words it is impossible for me to say; I can only declare that some intolerable
sense of injury hurried her into an outbreak of rage. Her voice, strained for the first time,
lost its tuneful beauty of tone.

"Come and see us in two years' time," she burst out--"and discover the orphan of the gallows
in our house if you can! If your Asylum won't take her, some other Charity will. Ha, Mr. Governor,
I deserve my disappointment! I ought to have remembered that you are only a jailer after all.
And what is a jailer? Proverbially a brute. Do you hear that? A brute!"

Her strength suddenly failed her. She dropped back into the chair from which she had risen,
with a faint cry of pain. A ghastly pallor stole over her face. There was wine on the sideboard;
I filled a glass. She refused to take it. At that time in the day, the Doctor's duties required
his attendance in the prison. I instantly sent for him. After a moment's look at her, he took
the wine out of my hand, and held the glass to her lips.

"Drink it," he said. She still refused. "Drink it," he reiterated, "or you will die."

That frightened her; she drank the wine. The Doctor waited for a while with his fingers on
her pulse. "She will do now," he said.

"Can I go?" she asked.

"Go wherever you please, madam--so long as you don't go upstairs in a hurry."

She smiled: "I understand you, sir--and thank you for your advice."

I asked the Doctor, when we were alone, what made him tell her not to go upstairs in a hurry.

"What I felt," he answered, "when I had my fingers on her pulse. You heard her say that she
understood me."

"Yes; but I don't know what she meant."

"She meant, probably, that her own doctor had warned her as I did."

"Something seriously wrong with her health?"

"Yes."

"What is it?"

"Heart."

CHAPTER X. MISS CHANCE REAPPEARS.

A week had passed, since the Minister's wife had left me, when I received a letter from the
Minister himself.

After surprising me, as he innocently supposed, by announcing the birth of his child, he mentioned
some circumstances connected with that event, which I now heard for the first time.

"Within an easy journey of the populous scene of my present labors," he wrote, "there is a
secluded country village called Low Lanes. The rector of the place is my wife's brother. The bark is white, similar to those of
the walnut. The result is a beer and a half span, and some two feet long. Have in large grains
such as beans, grains and between some pulp black, used to purge soft, and is sold in pharmacies.
The color of the cane, while ripe, is black as the pulp.

Taruma tree is a species of wild olive. The same size as that of the olive trees with little difference,
and even the leaf is not very different. The icing is like small olives, and has his blood like olives.
The Paraguayans eat this fruit, but I found it bland. It would be good to test whether it can be very
useful oil, and even if ignited in the Tarumas olive grafts.

* * *

§.

IV.

Cuyabá facilities and Mattogroso.

The city of Cuiaba, according to some Portuguese maps, is at 14 degrees and 20 minutes south latitude,
and as inferred from the length that was found the mouth of Xaurú, and distance is of Cuiaba, we
can put this city in 322 degrees of longitude, counting del Fierro, with a short difference.
Its situation is on the east of the river called Cuiaba, which to
lead in the Porrudos, runs north to south, and navigate to the Cuyabá
port, a distance of two to three miles from the city.

In the northern part extends for many miles the great mountains, where
they have their origin the two mighty rivers Paraná and Paraguay.

And just for the north, down to the Topayos Marañon rivers, Xingu, rio de Dos Bocas, Tocantins
and others.

In the southern part of Cuyabá be stretched for many leagues the wetlands of Xarayes: from so
that this part can not enter into the city but by the stream. Nor is it possible that otherwise you
can pass people on foot or on horseback. In times of heavy rains flooded almost all the space
of sixty miles from north to south, and about the same from east to west, that between the river
and the mountains of Porrudos Cuyabá, and may at this time through Cuyabá boats from the river
Paraguay, without getting to the Porrudos, but dry weather Cuyabá are reduced and Paraguay
rivers to their narrow and deep channels. And although the intermediate space are many gaps, or
there is no communication, or not been discovered so far, where you can go through in straight from
a river to the other.

Therefore, for sailing time from Cuiaba to Xaurú dry, and go to Mattogroso, are the Portuguese
need to give a great back, down the river of Porrudos, and for this the river Paraguay, by
which to climb back over sixty miles to the mouth of Xaurú.

On the east side has Cuyabá many Indian lands inhabited only infidels: and although there is
no way to go through this part of Brazil, is the way very long, very
laborious and esponse to the assaults of the barbarians and the black
rebels.

For these reasons there are few The Portuguese who undertake the journey by land. The great
distance from Brazil, and laborious the road make the horses and mules in Cuyabá be sold at prices
very deep: it is sell an ordinary horse in a hundred pesos, and a mule in two hundred.

To the west, from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, be stretched some mountains, which are branches of the
great mountain or mountain range that we discussed earlier. The Portuguese led the way for these mountains,
to have communication with those of Mattogroso: but laborious way, and only for ordinary people
used to temper the climate unhealthy.

The city of Cuiaba no wall, or artillery, or a fortification, for the wetlands of the Xarayes,
and the neglect of the Spanish total, judge fairly defended.

Only the guard of Captain General, and to defend the infidel Indians, maintain a company of
soldiers paid to fifteen dollars per month. From these various departments are. Twelve in two
prisons to the frontier of the infidels: twelve others in a war canoe serves to escort the
boats that sail to St. Paul, and the remaining twenty, are in Cuiaba, and they are all defending
the city.

The number of people of all castes come to five thousand people, of which only a small number
are free, others, or slaves, or taken and treated as such, because Except for little more
than two hundred people who will find white people, the others, many are black and mulattoes, and
mestizos many Indians, who are treated by the Portuguese like slaves: for, though only to the
actual ordinance and to those of Payaguá other nation can make slaves, but those parts are served
any Portuguese Indians who can catch, and keep them in slavery. The Indians Cuyabá by more immediate
the north are the Paresis and Barbudos: they never give to the Portuguese,
for either have to overcome, or are to be killed in the fray.

On the north-east are the Bororo Indians: these have the simplicity
of it, caught India by the Portuguese some of his nation, then come
the immediate relatives to deliver and serve the Portuguese who has
her home.

To the south, after the flooding, are above the Mbayas that the passage
of the Paulist Tacuarí by the usually undertake.

* * *

§. V.

Cuyabá mines.

Throughout Brazil are the Portuguese name of mines to the gold mines. And so neither in Cuiaba, or
any other part of Brazil, which has come to my knowledge, mine is working properly such. But
there are gold mines Cuyabá of 23 carats, and one of the gold mines
are diamonds.

But in these years history, because diamonds are not losing their estimation, was banned by
the King of Portugal them out of Cuiaba. The sinks are located in various parts to falls or
slopes of the great Cordillera. Work in these laundries black slaves, black and gives each
his master in every week three pieces of gold grains, which is the only currency runs there. And
you do the math on buying and selling gold in octaves and each octave are two weights. In some parts
is gold in abundance, but you can not take advantage of him there
for missing water for washing.

The great distance from Cuiaba to the coast of Brazil is due to the
gender of Europe thence selling price up.

A very ordinary shirt worth six dollars, or three octaves gold: a pair of shoes, the same:
a flask of wine and brandy, which in the Janeiro given for ten pesos worth in Cuyabá sixties.
And this proportion is sold to other genres. What goes up there at exorbitant prices, and is the largest
smuggling, if you're not at the office custom, is salt, which is carried in Lisbon, and not
permitted elsewhere.

* * *

§. VI.

Cuyabá temperament and fruits of the earth.

In Cuiaba and its vicinity is very hot and humid temperament, and consequentially enjoys all the
land of poor health. The most common disease which is called the Portuguese of the beast: and
they die a lot, because they can not cure.

The disease is extreme laxity in the hole with dysentery, and some fever. The Portuguese, convinced
that is bred in the flesh some bug or Guzan, causing those effects, intended to force lemon
juice and other citrus fruits, to kill the bug, and happens not infrequently ending with the patient.
The surgeon D. Pedro Gracian, who sailed with me on a boat through the Xarajes, very smart man in his
right, hearing the ensign of complaining Cuyabá that was between the people some patients the
bug, maybe something was informed that the bug, and actually went to see the sick, and found that
there was no such creature or Guzan, and offered to cure them later.

The Portuguese insisted upon very effectively that there was no cure for this disease the lemon tart, which
maybe mixed with AGI, garlic and salt, but The surgeon showed them the error where they were,
then taking his account of the patient who had of more danger, he was given two days healthy,
without applying any of the sobredichas thing to kill the bug, have certainly had no such animal.

The
storm water that run through forests there cañafístula, Parages covered by the rods that fall from
the trees, bushes and other plants large purges, with excessive heat and the sleepless nights
caused by the multitude of mosquitoes are in my opinion the cause of that distemper and that disease.
The Spanish, who got into Xaurú, experiments at that temper like dysentery, with great relaxation
in the stomach, which had no the heat needed for digestion. In this accident happened to happiness,
taking before eating a bit of sweet wine: remedy needed in that country to avoid losing health.

The
downpours are common in the uplands, but the strongest, which are grown dramatically rivers,
beginning with the month of December. And grow both rivers, not finding enough opening out
the many waters that flow down into the plain of Xarayes, overflow flooding fields, and forming
by this time a big lake, but later, in the rain ceasing, is drained by the Paraguay river channel,
and are only the channels of the rivers, and some gaps, uncovering
all the rest of the plain, full of impenetrable marshes.

But all that space for flooding, there are some groves of trees he very high whose trunks are
flooded up to three and four yards high. And most fans watched in Xarayes, is that all land to be
flooded part of the year, they found ants (Of which there are innumerable crowd) way to keep
their nests. These are manufactured by strong clay on top of large trees, with such art is like
a furnace around one of the upper branches, and so well constructed that they can not offend rain
or wind. And so that these can not be ants going up or down in dry weather, have made of it a
strong mud-covered road or canal, descending to the foot of the tree, which channel the ants up
and down safely.

The fruits of the land of Cuiaba and its region are maize, rice, cassava
(in other parts of America called cazave), pineapples, bananas or
pacobas with many other fruit species typical of hot climates of America,
sugar, cane syrup and bees, which There are several species in the
mountains.

The wild rice is on the banks of the Rio Cuiaba and Porrudos.

No fucks wheat, no wine, no nuts in Europe. The lack of bread supplement Portuguese with farinha
do pao, or cazave. There are Cuyabá some cattle, but little. In D. Xaurú bought them Manuel
Flores some cows for people on boats, and paid twenty pesos each. Piglets and game are more
abundant.

* * *

§. VII.

Navigation made by Portuguese in Brazil to Cuiaba.

Each year the Portuguese traders go to Cuiaba Brazil with a large fleet of canoes gender-laden, and return
the product in gold and diamonds. The voyage is long and work: out of sixty or seventy canoes
of a harbor, which is four or five leagues San Pablo, a city well known in Brazil. Añembí down by
the river, to fall to the Paraná. On this sail downstream to the mouth of the Rio Pardo, which
comes from the west, and has the origin of some streams that flow down from the great chain
that extends from north to south, from near to Mount Cuyabá Itapuá in the Guarani missions. Up to Portuguese
canoes, until they can sail above the river Pardo: download here gender, and to spend two miles
of mountains, which are from the Rio Pardo to Carnap, vessels and cargo transported on the truck of
a Portuguez that it was filled in that range, and is interested in the transport of these
canoes. Before there was population there, spent their canoes on the shoulders of slaves who
have to paddle. Carried canoes to Carnap, the reloaded, and sail down the river to enter the Tacuarí.
For this sailing with some care, because their margins go up the Indians running Mbayas campaign,
which are enemies of the Portuguese, and not lose the opportunity to kill or captive lead
away from catching the fleet. Before arriving at the mouth of Tacuarí in Paraguay, as are the
Cuyabá war canoe, which, while usually Paulist arrive with their own, are waiting to defend
the Payaguá because canoes carrying of San Pablo is not enough for his defense, since each is only
a Portuguez white, or at most two, and the black rowers but they
do not carry weapons.

The Payaguá the usually expect a multitude of very light canoes, each of which are six or seven
men, and to avoid detection, they come with their canoes under the branches of trees, coming
to play in the water: and when they pass the Portuguese, the assault of a sudden and give them a
volley of arrows, throwing Portuguez always white, and lie on canoes can take, and collecting
gender and blacks, are lowered to the Assumption, where the Spanish out of compassion to rescue
the captives. To avoid the Portuguese these assaults and damage Payaguá do in their fleets, have
reinforced the call of war canoe, for the escort from the Tacuarí to Cuiaba.

The weapons of war canoe is a bronze Cañoncillo a rod or something else long, which promptly
fired several shots. And for this they bear in their drawers well conditioned cartridges, made
of canvas instead camellote because in this way prevent is some fire in the canyon, and say
they are not so hot, although shoot then with that many shots Cañoncillo. The alacrity with
which soar, due partly to have everything ready, and be able to easily
handle the gun for being so short, and partly because those who exercised
four well concur in charge: one with the cartridge, other with the
heel and attacked, one with a fuse that sticks in the stove filled
with gunpowder not stopping at prime, and the other end with boot-fire.

The Cañoncillo, although it is well strengthened, not unlike some other guns in his factory. Only
the carriage is somewhat different, because it has no wheels and is arranged with its spigot
such luck on a bank of the canoe, which can easily get to all parts, and so shooting a hand,
they can come back and shoot the other.

The crew of the war canoe consists of twelve soldiers and their ensign, and eight or nine black
spade oars in their uniforms. The ensign is in the canoe for sun protection and rain His chariot
very good with curtains and seats. The soldiers are also in canoe through the canopy off for safekeeping.
The rowers are to the fore and aft, and one with the blade serves as a helmsman.

To sleep, and those of war canoes as the load, looking preventable any camp site before nightfall
on the river bank, where the mountain is very close, and have overgrown with weeds and thorns,
of which the land is in abundance among the trees. They cuddle their canoes, and with machetes
open a semi-circle or crescent, where the arm Ensign shop. This store is aforrada canvas cloth,
for showing experience Store this species is more resistant to water. Had eight common steps long,
and more three yards high, and served a very thick ridge tacuara, or cane. Soldiers and rowers
hammocks hung from the trees, and covered with a large sheet, which both sides down to the
ground, which serves to protect from rain, and more especially serves
to fend off mosquitoes, which are in those rivers incredible crowd.

To get into the hammock without falling while these enemies, it is necessary to raise the sheet from
the floor, only to get the precise dragging the body, while some hole through which to enter, because
if they come not stop fidgeting all night.

Not to be surprised by the infidels of the river, which are the Payaguá, and a nation that only
be seen in the river of Porrudos, always leave a soldier on guard
defended in fence or bush, which has many loaded guns at hand, in
order to fire if he offer, while the other soldiers come.

On the ground can not easily be undertaken, by the impenetrable undergrowth of the mountain,
and the monitoring of some dogs who always carry with them the Portuguese.

After the fleet arrives at the river Paraguay, to shorten the journey
go by a narrow arm the same river, which they call Paraguay-mini arm,
and makes the big island of Paraguay ten miles long, and in my opinion,
they called the old Island Orejones Argentina puts because the Xarayes
below.

I begin to be afraid that I am as stupid--no; that is not a nice word to use--let me say as
simple as dear Eunice. A diary means a record of the events of the day; and not one of the
events of yesterday appears in my sister's journal or in mine. Well, it is easy to set that
mistake right. Our lives are so dull (but I would not say so in my father's hearing for the
world) that the record of one day will be much the same as the record of another. After family
prayers and breakfast I suffer my customary persecution at the hands of the cook. That is to
say, I am obliged, being the housekeeper, to order what we have to eat. Oh, how I hate inventing
dinners! and how I admire the enviable slowness of mind and laziness of body which have saved
Eunice from undertaking the worries of housekeeping in her turn! She can go and work in her
garden, while I am racking my invention to discover variety in dishes without overstepping
the limits of economy. I suppose I may confess it privately to myself--how sorry I am not to
have been born a man!

My next employment leads me to my father's study, to write under his dictation. I don't complain
of this; it flatters my pride to feel that I am helping so great a man. At the same time, I
do notice that here again Eunice's little defects have relieved her of another responsibility.
She can neither keep dictated words in her memory, nor has she ever been able to learn how
to put in her stops.

After the dictation, I have an hour's time left for practicing music. My sister comes in from
the garden, with her pencil and paint-box, and practices drawing. Then we go out for a walk--a
delightful walk, if my father goes too. He has something always new to tell us, suggested by
what we pass on the way. Then, dinner-time comes--not always a pleasant part of the day to
me. Sometimes I hear paternal complaints (always gentle complaints) of my housekeeping; sometimes
my sister (I won't say the greedy sister) tells me I have not given her enough to eat. Poor
father! Dear Eunice!

Dinner having reached its end, we stroll in the garden when the weather is fine. When it rains,
we make flannel petticoats for poor old women. What a horrid thing old age is to look at! To
be ugly, to be helpless, to be miserably unfit for all the pleasures of life--I hope I shall
not live to be an old woman. What would my father say if he saw this? For his sake, to say
nothing of my own feelings, I shall do well if I make it a custom to use the lock of my journal.
Our next occupation is to join the Scripture class for girls, and to help the teacher. This
is a good discipline for Eunice's temper, and--oh, I don't deny it!--for my temper, too. I
may long to box the ears of the whole class, but it is my duty to keep a smiling face and to
be a model of patience. From the Scripture class we sometimes go to my father's lecture. At
other times, we may amuse ourselves as well as we can till the tea is ready. After tea, we
read books which instruct us, poetry and novels being forbidden. When we are tired of the books
we talk. When supper is over, we have prayers again, and we go to bed. There is our day. Oh,
dear me! there is our day.

.......

And how has Eunice succeeded in her second attempt at keeping a diary? Here is what she has
written. It has one merit that nobody can deny--it is soon read:

"I hope papa will excuse me; I have nothing to write about to-day."

Over and over again I have tried to point out to my sister the absurdity of calling her father
by the infantile nickname of papa. I have reminded her that she is (in years, at least) no
longer a child. "Why don't you call him father, as I do?" I asked only the other day.

She made an absurd reply: "I used to call him papa when I was a little girl."

"That," I reminded her, "doesn't justify you in calling him papa now."

And she actually answered: "Yes it does." What a strange state of mind! And what a charming
girl, in spite of her mind!

THIRD DAY.

The morning post has brought with it a promise of some little variety in our lives--or, to
speak more correctly, in the life of my sister.

Our new and nice friends, the Staveleys, have written to invite Eunice to pay them a visit
at their house in London. I don't complain at being left at home. It would be unfilial, indeed,
if we both of us forsook our father; and last year it was my turn to receive the first invitation,
and to enjoy the change of scene. The Staveleys are excellent people--strictly pious members
of the Methodist Connection--and exceedingly kind to my sister and me. But it was just as well
for my moral welfare that I ended my visit to our friends when I did. With my fondness for
music, I felt the temptation of the Evil One trying me, when I saw placards in the street announcing
that the Italian Opera was open. I had no wish to be a witness of the shameful and sinful dancing
which goes on (I am told) at the opera; but I did feel my principles shaken when I thought
of the wonderful singers and the entrancing music. And this, when I knew what an atmosphere
of wickedness people breathe who enter a theater! I reflect with horror on what might have
happened if I had remained a little longer in London.

Helping Eunice to pack up, I put her journal into the box. "You will find something to write
about now," I told her. "While I record everything that happens at home, you will keep your
diary of all that you do in London, and when you come back we will show each other what we
have written." My sister is a dear creature. "I don't feel sure of being able to do it," she
answered; "but I promise to try." Good Eunice!

CHAPTER XII. EUNICE'S DIARY.

The air of London feels very heavy. There is a nasty smell of smoke in London. There are too
many people in London. They seem to be mostly people in a hurry. The head of a country girl,
when she goes into the streets, turns giddy--I suppose through not being used to the noise.

I do hope that it is London that has put me out of temper. Otherwise, it must be I myself who
am ill-tempered. I have not yet been one whole day in the Staveleys' house, and they have offended
me already. I don't want Helena to hear of this from other people, and then to ask me why I
concealed it from her. We are to read each other's journals when we are both at home again.
Let her see what I have to say for myself here.

There are seven Staveleys in all: Mr. and Mrs. (two); three young Masters (five); two young
Misses (seven). An eldest miss and the second young Master are the only ones at home at the
present time.

Mr., Mrs., and Miss kissed me when I arrived. Young Master only shook hands. He looked as if
he would have liked to kiss me too. Why shouldn't he? It wouldn't have mattered. I don't myself
like kissing. What is the use of it? Where is the pleasure of it?

Mrs. was so glad to see me; she took hold of me by both hands. She said: "My dear child, you
are improving. You were wretchedly thin when I saw you last. Now you are almost as well-developed
as your sister. I think you are prettier than your sister." Mr. didn't agree to that. He and
his wife began to dispute about me before my face. I do call that an aggravating thing to endure.

Mr. said: "She hasn't got her sister's pretty gray eyes."

Mrs. said; "She has got pretty brown eyes, which are just as good."

Mr. said: "You can't compare her complexion with Helena's."

Mrs. said: "I like Eunice's pale complexion. So delicate."

Young Miss struck in: "I admire Helena's hair--light brown."

Young Master took his turn: "I prefer Eunice's hair--dark brown."

Mr. opened his great big mouth, and asked a question: "Which of you two sisters is the oldest?
I forget."

Mrs. answered for me: "Helena is the oldest; she told us so when she was here last."

I really could not stand that. "You must be mistaken," I burst out.

"Certainly not, my dear."

"Then Helena was mistaken." I was unwilling to say of my sister that she had been deceiving
them, though it did seem only too likely.

Mr. and Mrs. looked at each other. Mrs. said: "You seem to be very positive, Eunice. Surely,
Helena ought to know."

I said: "Helena knows a good deal; but she doesn't know which of us is the oldest of the two."

Mr. put in another question: "Do you know?"

"No more than Helena does."

Mrs. said: "Don't you keep birthdays?"

I said: "Yes; we keep both our birthdays on the same day."

"On what day?"

"The first day of the New Year."

Mr. tried again: "You can't possibly be twins?"

"I don't know."

"Perhaps Helena knows?"

"Not she!"

Mrs. took the next question out of her husband's mouth: "Come, come, my dear! you must know
how old you are."

"Yes; I do know that. I'm eighteen."

"And how old is Helena?"

"Helena's eighteen."

Mrs. turned round to Mr.: "Do you hear that?"

Mr. said: "I shall write to her father, and ask what it means."

I said: "Papa will only tell you what he told us--years ago."

"What did your father say?"

"He said he had added our two ages together, and he meant to divide the product between us.
It's so long since, I don't remember what the product was then. But I'll tell you what the
product is now. Our two ages come to thirty-six. Half thirty-six is eighteen. I get one half,
and Helena gets the other. When we ask what it means, and when friends ask what it means, papa
has got the same answer for everybody, 'I have my reasons.' That's all he says--and that's
all I say."

I had no intention of making Mr. angry, but he did get angry. He left off speaking to me by
my Christian name; he called me by my surname. He said: "Let me tell you, Miss Gracedieu, it
is not becoming in a young lady to mystify her elders."

I had heard that it was respectful in a young lady to call an old gentleman, Sir, and to say,
If you please. I took care to be respectful now. "If you please, sir, write to papa. You will
find that I have spoken the truth."

A woman opened the door, and said to Mrs. Staveley: "Dinner, ma'am." That stopped this nasty
exhibition of our tempers. We had a very good dinner.

.......

The next day I wrote to Helena, asking her what she had really said to the Staveleys about
her age and mine, and telling her what I had said. I found it too great a trial of my patience
to wait till she could see what I had written about the dispute in my journal. The days, since
then, have passed, and I have been too lazy and stupid to keep my diary.

To-day it is different. My head is like a dark room with the light let into it. I remember
things; I think I can go on again.

We have religious exercises in this house, morning and evening, just as we do at home. (Not
to be compared with papa's religious exercises.) Two days ago his answer came to Mr. Staveley's
letter. He did just what I had expected--said I had spoken truly, and disappointed the family
by asking to be excused if he refrained from entering into explanations. Mr. said: "Very odd;"
and Mrs. agreed with him. Young Miss is not quite as friendly now as she was at first. And
young Master was impudent enough to ask me if "I had got religion." To conclude the list of
my worries, I received an angry answer from Helena. "Nobody but a simpleton," she wrote, "would
have contradicted me as you did. Who but you could have failed to see that papa's strange objection
to let it be known which of us is the elder makes us ridiculous before other people? My presence
of mind prevented that. You ought to have been grateful, and held your tongue." Perhaps Helena
is right--but I don't feel it so.

On Sunday we went to chapel twice. We also had a sermon read at home, and a cold dinner. In
the evening, a hot dispute on religion between Mr. Staveley and his son. I don't blame them.
After being pious all day long on Sunday, I have myself felt my piety give way toward evening.

There is something pleasant in prospect for to-morrow. All London is going just now to the
exhibition of pictures. We are going with all London.

.......

I don't know what is the matter with me tonight. I have positively been to bed, without going
to sleep! After tossing and twisting and trying all sorts of positions, I am so angry with
myself that I have got up again. Rather than do nothing, I have opened my ink-bottle, and I
mean to go on with my journal. Now I think of it, it seems likely that the exhibition of works
of art may have upset me.

I found a dreadfully large number of pictures, matched by a dreadfully large number of people
to look at them. It is not possible for me to write about what I saw: there was too much of
it. Besides, the show disappointed me. I would rather write about a disagreement (oh, dear,
another dispute!) I had with Mrs. Staveley. The cause of it was a famous artist; not himself,
but his works. He exhibited four pictures--what they call figure subjects. Mrs. Staveley had
a pencil. At every one of the great man's four pictures, she made a big mark of admiration
on her catalogue. At the fourth one, she spoke to me: "Perfectly beautiful, Eunice, isn't it?"

I said I didn't know. She said: "You strange girl, what do you mean by that?"

It would have been rude not to have given the best answer I could find. I said: "I never saw
the flesh of any person's face like the flesh in the faces which that man paints. He reminds
me of wax-work. Why does he paint the same waxy flesh in all four of his pictures? I don't
see the same colored flesh in all the faces about us." Mrs. Staveley held up her hand, by way
of stopping me. She said: "Don't speak so loud, Eunice; you are only exposing your own ignorance."

A voice behind us joined in. The voice said: "Excuse me, Mrs. Staveley, if I expose my ignorance.
I entirely agree with the young lady."

I felt grateful to the person who took my part, just when I was at a loss what to say for myself,
and I looked round. The person was a young gentleman.

He wore a beautiful blue frock-coat, buttoned up. I like a frock-coat to be buttoned up. He
had light-colored trousers and gray gloves and a pretty cane. I like light-colored trousers
and gray gloves and a pretty cane. What color his eyes were is more than I can say; I only
know they made me hot when they looked at me. Not that I mind being made hot; it is surely
better than being made cold. He and Mrs. Staveley shook hands.

They seemed to be old friends. I wished I had been an old friend--not for any bad reason, I
hope. I only wanted to shake hands, too. What Mrs. Staveley said to him escaped me, somehow.
I think the picture escaped me also; I don't remember noticing anything except the young gentleman,
especially when he took off his hat to me. He looked at me twice before he went away. I got
hot again. I said to Mrs. Staveley: "Who is he?"

She laughed at me. I said again: "Who is he?" She said: "He is young Mr. Dunboyne." I said:
"Does he live in London?" She laughed again. I said again: "Does he live in London?" She said:
"He is here for a holiday; he lives with his father at Fairmount, in Ireland."

Young Mr. Dunboyne--here for a holiday--lives with his father at Fairmount, in Ireland. I have
said that to myself fifty times over. And here it is, saying itself for the fifty-first time
in my Journal. I must indeed be a simpleton, as Helena says. I had better go to bed again.

CHAPTER XIII. EUNICE'S DIARY.

Not long before I left home, I heard one of our two servants telling the other about a person
who had been "bewitched." Are you bewitched when you don't understand your own self? That has
been my curious case, since I returned from the picture show. This morning I took my drawing
materials out of my box, and tried to make a portrait of young Mr. Dunboyne from recollection.
I succeeded pretty well with his frock-coat and cane; but, try as I might, his face was beyond
me. I have never drawn anything so badly since I was a little girl; I almost felt ready to
cry. What a fool I am!

This morning I received a letter from papa--it was in reply to a letter that I had written
to him--so kind, so beautifully expressed, so like himself, that I felt inclined to send him
a confession of the strange state of feeling that has come over me, and to ask him to comfort
and advise me. On second thoughts, I was afraid to do it. Afraid of papa! I am further away
from understanding myself than ever.

Mr. Dunboyne paid us a visit in the afternoon. Fortunately, before we went out.

I thought I would have a good look at him; so as to know his face better than I had known it
yet. Another disappointment was in store for me. Without intending it, I am sure, he did what
no other young man has ever done--he made me feel confused. Instead of looking at him, I sat
with my head down, and listened to his talk. His voice--this is high praise--reminded me of
papa's voice. It seemed to persuade me as papa persuades his congregation. I felt quite at
ease again. When he went away, we shook hands. He gave my hand a little squeeze. I gave him
back the squeeze--without knowing why. When he was gone, I wished I had not done it--without
knowing why, either.

I heard his Christian name for the first time to-day. Mrs. Staveley said to me: "We are going
to have a dinner-party. Shall I ask Philip Dunboyne?" I said to Mrs. Staveley: "Oh, do!"

She is an old woman; her eyes are dim. At times, she can look mischievous. She looked at me
mischievously now. I wished I had not been so eager to have Mr. Dunboyne asked to dinner.

A fear has come to me that I may have degraded myself. My spirits are depressed. This, as papa
tells us in his sermons, is a miserable world. I am sorry I accepted the Staveleys' invitation.
I am sorry I went to see the pictures. When that young man comes to dinner, I shall say I have
got a headache, and shall stop upstairs by myself. I don't think I like his Christian name.
I hate London. I hate everybody.

What I wrote up above, yesterday, is nonsense. I think his Christian name is perfect. I like
London. I love everybody.

He came to dinner to-day. I sat next to him. How beautiful a dress-coat is, and a white cravat!
We talked. He wanted to know what my Christian name was. I was so pleased when I found he was
one of the few people who like it. His hair curls naturally. In color, it is something between
my hair and Helena's. He wears his beard. How manly! It curls naturally, like his hair; it
smells deliciously of some perfume which is new to me. He has white hands; his nails look as
if he polished them; I should like to polish my nails if I knew how. Whatever I said, he agreed
with me; I felt satisfied with my own conversation, for the first time in my life. Helena won't
find me a simpleton when I go home. What exquisite things dinner-parties are!

My sister told me (when we said good-by) to be particular in writing down my true opinion of
the Staveleys. Helena wishes to compare what she thinks of them with what I think of them.

My opinion of Mr. Staveley is--I don't like him. My opinion of Miss Staveley is--I can't endure
her. As for Master Staveley, my clever sister will understand that he is beneath notice. But,
oh, what a wonderful woman Mrs. Staveley is! We went out together, after luncheon today, for
a walk in Kensington Gardens. Never have I heard any conversation to compare with Mrs. Staveley's.
Helena shall enjoy it here, at second hand. I am quite changed in two things. First: I think
more of myself than I ever did before. Second: writing is no longer a difficulty to me. I could
fill a hundred journals, without once stopping to think.

Mrs. Staveley began nicely; "I suppose, Eunice, you have often been told that you have a good
figure, and that you walk well?"

I said: "Helena thinks my figure is better than my face. But do I really walk well? Nobody
ever told me that."

She answered: "Philip Dunboyne thinks so. He said to me, 'I resist the temptation because I
might be wanting in respect if I gave way to it. But I should like to follow her when she goes
out--merely for the pleasure of seeing her walk.'"

I stood stockstill. I said nothing. When you are as proud as a peacock (which never happened
to me before), I find you can't move and can't talk. You can only enjoy yourself.

Kind Mrs. Staveley had more things to tell me. She said: "I am interested in Philip. I lived
near Fairmount in the time before I was married; and in those days he was a child. I want him
to marry a charming girl, and be happy."

What made me think directly of Miss Staveley? What made me mad to know if she was the charming
girl? I was bold enough to ask the question. Mrs. Staveley turned to me with that mischievous
look which I have noticed already. I felt as if I had been running at the top of my speed,
and had not got my breath again, yet.

But this good motherly friend set me at my ease. She explained herself: "Philip is not much
liked, poor fellow, in our house. My husband considers him to be weak and vain and fickle.
And my daughter agrees with her father. There are times when she is barely civil to Philip.
He is too good-natured to complain, but I see it. Tell me, my dear, do you like Philip?"

"Of course I do!" Out it came in those words, before I could stop it. Was there something unbecoming
to a young lady in saying what I had just said? Mrs. Staveley seemed to be more amused than
angry with me. She took my arm kindly, and led me along with her. "My dear, you are as clear
as crystal, and as true as steel. You are a favorite of mine already."

What a delightful woman! as I said just now. I asked if she really liked me as well as she
liked my sister.

She said: "Better."

I didn't expect that, and didn't want it. Helena is my superior. She is prettier than I am,
cleverer than I am, better worth liking than I am. Mrs. Staveley shifted the talk back to Philip.
I ought to have said Mr. Philip. No, I won't; I shall call him Philip. If I had a heart of
stone, I should feel interested in him, after what Mrs. Staveley has told me.

Such a sad story, in some respects. Mother dead; no brothers or sisters. Only the father left;
he lives a dismal life on a lonely stormy coast. Not a severe old gentleman, for all that.
His reasons for taking to retirement are reasons (so Mrs. Staveley says) which nobody knows.
He buries himself among his books, in an immense library; and he appears to like it. His son
has not been brought up like other young men, at school and college. He is a great scholar,
educated at home by his father. To hear this account of his learning depressed me. It seemed
to put such a distance between us. I asked Mrs. Staveley if he thought me ignorant. As long
as I live I shall remember the reply: "He thinks you charming."

Any other girl would have been satisfied with this. I am the miserable creature who is always
making mistakes. My stupid curiosity spoiled the charm of Mrs. Staveley's conversation. And
yet it seemed to be a harmless question; I only said I should like to know what profession
Philip belonged to.

Mrs. Staveley answered: "No profession."

I foolishly put a wrong meaning on this. I said: "Is he idle?"

Mrs. Staveley laughed. "My dear, he is an only son--and his father is a rich man."

That stopped me--at last.

We have enough to live on in comfort at home--no more. Papa has told us himself that he is
not (and can never hope to be) a rich man. This is not the worst of it. Last year, he refused
to marry a young couple, both belonging to our congregation. This was very unlike his usual
kind self. Helena and I asked him for his reasons. They were reasons that did not take long
to give. The young gentleman's father was a rich man. He had forbidden his son to marry a sweet
girl--because she had no fortune.

I have no fortune. And Philip's father is a rich man.

The best thing I can do is to wipe my pen, and shut up my Journal, and go home by the next train.

.......

I have a great mind to burn my Journal. It tells me that I had better not think of Philip any more.

On second thoughts, I won't destroy my Journal; I will only put it away. If I live to be an
old woman, it may amuse me to open my book again, and see how foolish the poor wretch was when
she was young.

What is this aching pain in my heart?

I don't remember it at any other time in my life. Is it trouble? How can I tell?--I have had
so little trouble. It must be many years since I was wretched enough to cry. I don't even understand
why I am crying now. My last sorrow, so far as I can remember, was the toothache. Other girls'
mothers comfort them when they are wretched. If my mother had lived--it's useless to think
about that. We lost her, while I and my sister were too young to understand our misfortune.

I wish I had never seen Philip.

This seems an ungrateful wish. Seeing him at the picture-show was a new enjoyment. Sitting
next to him at dinner was a happiness that I don't recollect feeling, even when Papa has been
most sweet and kind to me. I ought to be ashamed of myself to confess this. Shall I write to
my sister? But how should she know what is the matter with me, when I don't know it myself?
Besides, Helena is angry; she wrote unkindly to me when she answered my last letter.

There is a dreadful loneliness in this great house at night. I had better say my prayers, and
try to sleep. If it doesn't make me feel happier, it will prevent me spoiling my Journal by
dropping tears on it.

.......

What an evening of evenings this has been! Last night it was crying that kept me awake. To-night
I can't sleep for joy.

Philip called on us again to-day. He brought with him tickets for the performance of an Oratorio.
Sacred music is not forbidden music among our people. Mrs. Staveley and Miss Staveley went
to the concert with us. Philip and I sat next to each other.

My sister is a musician--I am nothing. That sounds bitter; but I don't mean it so. All I mean
is, that I like simple little songs, which I can sing to myself by remembering the tune. There,
my musical enjoyment ends. When voices and instruments burst out together by hundreds, I feel
bewildered. I also get attacked by fidgets. This last misfortune is sure to overtake me when
choruses are being performed. The unfortunate people employed are made to keep singing the
same words, over and over and over again, till I find it a perfect misery to listen to them.
The choruses were unendurable in the performance to-night. This is one of them: "Here we are
all alone in the wilderness--alone in the wilderness--in the wilderness alone, alone, alone--here
we are in the wilderness--alone in the wilderness--all all alone in the wilderness," and soon,
till I felt inclined to call for the learned person who writes Oratorios, and beg him to give
the poor music a more generous allowance of words.

Whenever I looked at Philip, I found him looking at me. Perhaps he saw from the first that
the music was wearying music to my ignorant ears. With his usual delicacy he said nothing for
some time. But when he caught me yawning (though I did my best to hide it, for it looked like
being ungrateful for the tickets), then he could restrain himself no longer. He whispered in
my ear:

"You are getting tired of this. And so am I."

"I am trying to like it," I whispered back.

"Don't try," he answered. "Let's talk."

He meant, of course, talk in whispers. We were a good deal annoyed--especially when the characters
were all alone in the wilderness--by bursts of singing and playing which interrupted us at
the most interesting moments. Philip persevered with a manly firmness. What could I do but
follow his example--at a distance?

He said: "Is it really true that your visit to Mrs. Staveley is coming to an end?"

I answered: "It comes to an end the day after to-morrow."

"Are you sorry to be leaving your friends in London?"

What I might have said if he had made that inquiry a day earlier, when I was the most miserable
creature living, I would rather not try to guess. Being quite happy as things were, I could
honestly tell him I was sorry.

"You can't possibly be as sorry as I am, Eunice. May I call you by your pretty name?"

"Yes, if you please."

"Eunice!"

"Yes."

"You will leave a blank in my life when you go away--"

There another chorus stopped him, just as I was eager for more. It was such a delightfully
new sensation to hear a young gentleman telling me that I had left a blank in his life. The
next change in the Oratorio brought up a young lady, singing alone. Some people behind us grumbled
at the smallness of her voice. We thought her voice perfect. It seemed to lend itself so nicely
to our whispers.

He said: "Will you help me to think of you while you are away? I want to imagine what your
life is at home. Do you live in a town or in the country?"

I told him the name of our town. When we give a person information, I have always heard that
we ought to make it complete. So I mentioned our address in the town. But I was troubled by
a doubt. Perhaps he preferred the country. Being anxious about this, I said: "Would you rather
have heard that I live in the country?"

"Live where you may, Eunice, the place will be a favorite place of mine. Besides, your town
is famous. It has a public attraction which brings visitors to it."

I made another of those mistakes which no sensible girl, in my position, would have committed.
I asked if he alluded to our new market-place.

He set me right in the sweetest manner: "I alluded to a building hundreds of years older than
your market-place--your beautiful cathedral."

Fancy my not having thought of the cathedral! This is what comes of being a Congregationalist. Immediately was
put into execution the marriage having been given blessings D. Diego de Villaescusa, Dean of
Jaen.

Practiced with the greatest solemnity and magnificence the usual ceremonies, went to Antwerp, and
thence to Brussels, where they were full of congratulations, and where they had arranged to his
arrival the people of this province many festivals, which were the young couple enjoying a long
time. Such were the entertainment arranged by the people Brussels, which some authors claim, he
was heard more than once to say to Philip, who in good point win
would be his residence this capital.

It is believed that D. Felipe was an arrogant figure, handsome gentleman and very friendly sumptuously
dressed. To this is added as an amiable character, so everybody liked him. These qualities
were what the renowned Le Grange Fair. The Infanta Doña Juana was on the other hand extremity
and energetic, but nevertheless, it took a passion so vehement, that from the moment he saw him loved
him with blind idolatry. The affection of Juana Felipe el Hermoso towards more added every
day, by the way of life they observed, and the good behavior of the archduke, who as a young,
not thinking about anything but pleasures; So here we were in tournaments, evening parties and
other entertainment which grew to more than the passion of his young wife, watching the bravery
and skill in the arms of his Felipe. Her husband was the object of their worship, it had deposited
his heart, and he lived alone, the young archduke paid this love to Doña Juana with all the
warmth of his young age, and the gallant manner of a prince, so that Infanta had one of those
beings happier, and more when it came to notice that soon to be mother.

Opportunity

came when they left for Flanders after some time, which gave birth to Doña Juana on November
15, 1498 to Dona Leonor, then continuing through unscathed in his love both and not ceasing
to be an example of the spouses or ones. Despite the fact that although would be like it was
enough only the possession of the fruits of his marriage to have taken more increased its unalloyed
affection.

For their states did not have the best success being born female, but nevertheless, as were ones
parents, the child was appreciated. Two years later, in 1500, marched to Ghent, where on February
21 had a son, whom nominated Charles, later known throughout the universe by his fame and power.
Great was the joy that looked painted on their faces of the inhabitants of those states, striving every
man expressing his joy he experienced by the Crown Prince. Were also innumerable festivals with
such a solemn occasion were implemented, and would therefore cause to raise the extract of this
story to a huge height.

Began around this time and Doña Juana to sink into despair, because
since the fortune everything seemed to tilt the favor to the newborn,
began to vanish as if by magic the happiness of the mother of Emperor
Charles V.

Misfortune came to take the life in the same year of 1500
to the end of July the infant D. Michael, son of King D. John of Portugal,
last child in the male line of kings D. Catholics Fernando and Queen
Isabel, falling as a consequence the crown of Spain, in mother Leonor
and D. Charles.

D. Ferdinand and Isabella immediately called Don Juan de Fonseca, bishop of Cordoba, and ordered
him to pass the order as soon as possible to Flanders for knowing
the archdukes this event, to congratulate them on their real names,
and make known the vital their need to plan your trip to Spain, for
and eagerly awaited to be sworn in as chief of this great nation,
that the sky had deigned to leave as the sole heirs.

A few days passed without D. Juan de Fonseca to fulfill its mission; but the tape found in
Doña Juana and the many occupations in this delicate time came to be Philip the Fair in those
states, were the cause of that could not be verified the planned journey to end and the year of 1501,
which gave birth to her third child, (Mrs. Isabel.) Bodies were so continuous that led D.
Fernando from his court, who were Archdukes required to set out, even without being fully restlablecida
Juana of the indisposition of his birth, so they solved it by land, crossing French states.

The rulers of this nation were received with the greatest affability, lavishing endless displays
of affection, and treating them with decency and respect due to so powerful lords.

A small annoyance happened was the cause of the Archduke soon put in departure abroad to Spain.
A holiday solemn Mass came to real French family accompanied by his royal guests. At the offertory
a lady came to Juana, approaching his hand a number of currencies,
so as usual the names offered to the public queen.

This was rejected with violence, saying: "Do unto your sovereign know me not offer it for anyone,
do you understand? ".

With the money and the answer came back the messenger to the Queen, who felt a slight degree
so marked, but trying to restrain his anger, was content to pay that with a larger one, which
was not provided with the exit of the church rather than to the royal entourage. Joanna's insight
made to present something on this particular, and indeed he was right, because as the Mass ended,
he began to meet the family, however, she was in church. The queen waited a bit on the street
but pretending Juana knew all this, he remained in that position long while, then going alone
to the palace.

Everything went hearsay in court about the snub that remains explanations, and had passed later
if the Archduke not try to apologize to his wife of shots that ran it; so hastily had to shorten
his trip to the Spanish soil.

Had already begun the days of 1502, when they made their entry into
Spain by Fuenterrabia.

In this capital waiting on the recommendation of D. Fernando and Queen Isabel, Don Bernardo de
Sandoval y Rojas, who accompanied by Burgos, Valladolid and Madrid to Toledo, at which point were
called the Parliament of the kingdom, where, after jurors were heirs
the crown of Spain, according to calculation, was on 22 May of that
year 1502.

Passed after also to be sworn to the kingdoms of Aragon and Valencia, in which they accompanied
their journey parents.

Back because of this expedition was to stop at Alcalá de Henares, in consequence of birth was
near Doña Juana. All parties that are prepared at the court to the archdukes heirs, were suspended
to run after the double object the new birth of a prince, which took effect on the day March
10, 1503 with the birth of the Infante Don Fernando who succeeded
after the Emperor Charles V in the empire Germany.

Occurrences that had by then in the states of Philip the Fair, did not allow continue any longer
in Spain, so I decided to get up instantly, even against their will, were not enough the pleas
of his mother, nor to Doña Juana make him desist from his efforts. From this period dates the fatal
madness of the mother of many kings.

Since that time he was so miserable a woman worthy of a better fate. Anyone you know what you
are jealous, you can judge which Juana had therefore been assumed that until the shadow was
about to snatch a husband so dearly. Philip in turn had paid the fair value with the love
placed in him, but it was extinguished, not enthusiastic and repeated praise of his wife,
and this caused him not feeling his departure, checking it even before that the latter is the response
of indisposition of his birth.

In the entourage Doña Juana, forming his servants, when he went to Flanders perform their wedding,
was a young girl, who was the admiration of all. Possessed a beautiful blonde pleasant and seductive,
graceful too much, and an extraordinary talent.

To find himself in the palace of the Archduke, motivated return Philip the Handsome of Spain,
once rid of unbounded praise of Doña Juana, look at her with such adhesion, which finally concluded
by blindly passionate attraction of the Spanish blonde, whose magnificent golden hair came
to seduce her heart.

Did not take long to succumb to the repeated instances of Philip, which a few days to no was only
a servant and who now occupied the place of a queen.

Backbiting and envy began to be felt in the palace, and therefore did not last long without
the disclosure of this event so that as quickly as the news came to Spain, and immediately learned
real people.

Is it possible explanations that Juana suffered when knowing of this
news?

This and no another was thus depriving the Archduchess of their reason until they ceased to
exist. This and no other was the sharpest knife to introduce his lover Philip chest. Stop anyone
have loved at this point, and consider consuming fever that would take over a character so
firm and strong as that of Doña Juana. I suffered unspeakable tortures, torments disturbed
his reason to dilirio: up not wanting to embrace what they most wanted in the world after her husband,
who were his children. Its always sad and haggard face, revealing the atrocious undergoes
tortures: their wandering eyes seemed like trying to distinguish an object, the which there
is, besides his eyes, filling him with insults and curses, fled from all people preferred to
not more than solitude: This was distracting, devoting his mind Philip, in spite of being unfaithful.
On this occasion decided to leave the court, and removed to the Mota of Medina del Campo, being intimately
convinced that this place would look observers free court, and thence to write to Queen Elizabeth,
her mother, news of his latest resolution, which was leaving at the earliest to Flanders to in
this way again become masters of the heart of her husband, and destroy as soon as love that had
been deposited in the Spanish blonde. Queen Elizabeth, before her daughter was aware all, knew
perfectly the ardent love she professed her husband, and presumed Maybe their departure would
be the mainspring of a great scandal, tried to prevent his departure, but at the expense of hard
work. He knew that Philip's love relationships were too new to you as soon could have a break.
So they tried to dissuade her from the idea of ​​leaving, putting it on the pretext be very delicate
health, and tambiem found his father holding the Cortes in Aragon, which we worship so dearly,
would feel very much that this determination had been taken without their consent. Both Catholic
Queen Juana and her daughter, wore his intention, first, to see if I could without giving scandal,
fade the love you had put Philip in the maid, and the second because I wanted to give a lesson
to her husband, mistaking his mistress.

Doña Juana I kept writing to her mother for the purpose indicated, but had been useless so far
their pleas to achieve the permission of this: he had come to the
point to command the most influential characters of his court for
himself in this way could what would have liked even at the cost of
his life.

But seeing that all was in vain, made the determination to leave without the consent of his mother,
without reaching the ears of his father, and if possible, without them knowing more than his
chariot drivers. To those people who had placed their trust gave the necessary orders for as
soon as prepare the tools needed to start over. Everything was already prepared, but did chance
Isabel was advised of this resolution unexpectedly, which immediately sent Don Juan de Fonseca,
bishop of Cordoba, that the plea in his name does not go away. A about to board the carriage
was already Doña Juana when it was sent to the Queen. A moment then failed to find. Sent instantly
D. Juan de Fonseca to retire the carriage, and then went to see the Archduchess, to which he
found already at the door of the palace de la Mota, prepared to march in costume on the road. That required
compliance with its position, made her knowledgeable of the order of the Catholic Queen, intimidated
to return to his apartment, but the Archduchess was not already the case to keep considerations
of any kind, so do not said a word, in the heat of his fiery passion was no more than mysteries,
secret agents from rival and her unfaithful husband, who had no other entertainment to delay
their departure. The Bishop of Cordoba hurried in vain even presenting its instances at every word
the name of his mother, but already tired of hearing disobeyed the order and prayers of this,
and preparing to leave: "Let me, he said, is a sacred duty that I will not stop Anything in
this journey. "Then the bishop sent to close the door, leaving the part of in at the unhappy
Juana.

Seeing this lady was confined to the height of his despair, and began to utter both and that
insolent insult phrases, D. Juan de Fonseca was extremely angry, in spite of having been summoned
to the Archduchess through his camera gentleman, D. Miguel Ferrera. He would not return, but
took the path of Segovia, where he then was Queen Isabel.

When he came D. Juan de Fonseca to where she was the queen gave him part of what has happened with
the princess Isabella, in spite of what was weak and many businesses that gave him his high
position, he set out for Mota in Medina del Campo, presumed that
perhaps his presence would give up his daughter as a project for her
sensitive.

After the usual Fulfilment and to which no attention is paid, promised it would go very soon
to join her husband. "You never want to God, he said the queen, my will or that the king your
father is that of you from the side of your husband, and if anything else on this subject
have dared to say, despreciadla. "

These and other reasons we esponia Isabel, and she in her frenzy, but that did not respond: "They
are useless the prayers of the world: I will not give one iota ... The father of my children!
... I want to see "...

Spoke, and in tears, threw herself on the floor, refusing care all treated to lavish.

Completed and the Cortes of Aragon, did not think it prudent to King
Ferdinand, stop for longer his journey, because it was knowing what
was happening with her daughter, whose mental alienation fostered
every day, and it was quite possible that the detainees, had been
due to declare their folly.

Premeditating this very reason, make available a fleet commanded the
Laredo port of giving the same time his daughter, permission to practice
his expedition to Flanders.

The transports of joy that undergoes Doña Juana with his father's last wishes are indescribable,
and few days later he prepared to make your desired expedition.

                    

CHAPTER III.

The bad weather that was cause for the journey of Doña Juana is made more long, and interview he
had with the mistress of Philip the Fair.

On March 15, 1504, Juana went accompanied by their parents to the point where went to boarding (Laredo),
but everything seemed to come against all seemed to reveal his will. A strong and continuing
to be stopped temporarily sail. This to grow torments of the princess, and take many more of
indignation, because everything seemed to combine to prevent the reunion with her husband.
Two months had to reside in Laredo, which were the the storm lasted, and two months they were
two centuries, if we see the disposition in which was this lady,
and greatly aggravated their ongoing suffering.

Mid April did set sail, arriving in nine days happily to Dicks, a distance of three leagues and
a half of Bruges.

At this point she was expecting her husband, who expressed an unspeakable joy as he turned to embrace,
and she, according to the affection that the painting, he seemed completely oblivious of a so
just resentment. Although the two mutually give evidence of love and happy, entertained both fatal
and mortifications passions, the Archduke, for the passionate love
affair with the maid; and the more rabid jealousy, Doña Juana.

But lived with the hope that the first ever this would know of his
love: and second, to avenge a woman as big disappointments had made
it suffer.

Moved from Bruges to Brussels and here took up residence at the time.

Who can hide enough of the researchers insightful investigations of a woman? This reflection
should make Philip the Fair. Who can not hide from the scrutinizing looks dependents of a
palace, where trade is a kind of gossip and tangles, giving publicity to their advantage to all the
faults of their rulers?

Great peace seemed to reign at first since the arrival of Doña Juana, the Archduke to not disclose
to anyone what was in his imagination, dissembling as could the love of her blonde, but he
was wrong, not even his most hidden steps escaped the penetration
of his wife.

Palace gave them to his master daily report if jealous of his wife; and these same palace to satisfy
themselves as Archduchess detail could help to irritate it more. For one of these came to know that
one of the things that I had loved his maid's husband was her beautiful blond hair populated. But
not content even with this statement, he indicated the places and times where it commonly
gave appointments.

With the previous relationship came to completely exhausted the patience
of the Archduchess, because had fully recognized that he had employed
in vain all the resources to provide its unblemished love to see if
this sort to disappear from her husband a passion she never thought
rooted, because he believed a whim. His jealousy, restrained for some
time, were from This day a violent frenzy that increased their suffering.
Occasionally they had already mediated several words between the spouses,
but the Archduke, very in love with his blonde, to yourselves, practicing
with the greatest coolness. I was looking at a torn place in one of them, and determined to leave
it unrepaired, when I felt an arm slipped round my waist from behind. A voice, so close that
it tickled my neck, said: "Dear girl, what friends we shall be!" I turned round, and confronted
Miss Jillgall.

CHAPTER XV. HELENA'S DIARY.

If I am not a good girl, where is a good girl to be found? This is in Eunice's style. It sometimes
amuses me to mimic my simple sister.

I have just torn three pages out of my diary, in deference to the expression of my father's
wishes. He took the first opportunity which his cousin permitted him to enjoy of speaking to
me privately; and his object was to caution me against hastily relying on first impressions
of anybody--especially of Miss Jillgall. "Wait for a day or two," he said; "and then form your
estimate of the new member of our household."

The stormy state of my temper had passed away, and had left my atmosphere calm again. I could
feel that I had received good advice; but unluckily it reached me too late.

I had formed my estimate of Miss Jillgall, and had put it in writing for my own satisfaction,
at least an hour before my father found himself at liberty to speak to me. I don't agree with
him in distrusting first impressions; and I had proposed to put my opinion to the test, by
referring to what I had written about his cousin at a later time. However, after what he had
said to me, I felt bound in filial duty to take the pages out of my book, and to let two days
pass before I presumed to enjoy the luxury of hating Miss Jillgall. On one thing I am determined:
Eunice shall not form a hasty opinion, either. She shall undergo the same severe discipline
of self-restraint to which her sister is obliged to submit. Let us be just, as somebody says,
before we are generous. No more for to-day.

.......

I open my diary again--after the prescribed interval has elapsed. The first impression produced
on me by the new member of our household remains entirely unchanged.

Have I already made the remark that, when one removes a page from a book, it does not necessarily
follow that one destroys the page afterward? or did I leave this to be inferred? In either
case, my course of proceeding was the same. I ordered some paste to be made. Then I unlocked
a drawer, and found my poor ill-used leaves, and put them back in my Journal. An act of justice
is surely not the less praiseworthy because it is an act of justice done to one's self.

My father has often told me that he revises his writings on religious subjects. I may harmlessly
imitate that good example, by revising my restored entry. It is now a sufficiently remarkable
performance to be distinguished by a title. Let me call it:

Impressions of Miss Jillgall. My first impression was a strong one--it was produced by the
state of this lady's breath. In other words, I was obliged to let her kiss me. It is a duty
to be considerate toward human infirmity. I will only say that I thought I should have fainted.

My second impression draws a portrait, and produces a striking likeness.

Figure, little and lean--hair of a dirty drab color which we see in string--small light gray
eyes, sly and restless, and deeply sunk in the head--prominent cheekbones, and a florid complexion--an
inquisitive nose, turning up at the end--a large mouth and a servile smile--raw-looking hands,
decorated with black mittens--a misfitting white jacket and a limp skirt--manners familiar--temper
cleverly hidden--voice too irritating to be mentioned. Whose portrait is this? It is the portrait
of Miss Jillgall, taken in words.

Her true character is not easy to discover; I suspect that it will only show itself little
by little. That she is a born meddler in other people's affairs, I think I can see already.
I also found out that she trusted to flattery as the easiest means of making herself agreeable.
She tried her first experiment on myself.

"You charming girl," she began, "your bright face encourages me to ask a favor. Pray make me
useful! The one aspiration of my life is to be useful. Unless you employ me in that way, I
have no right to intrude myself into your family circle. Yes, yes, I know that your father
has opened his house and his heart to me. But I dare not found any claim--your name is Helena,
isn't it? Dear Helena, I dare not found any claim on what I owe to your father's kindness."

"Why not?" I inquired.

"Because your father is not a man--"

I was rude enough to interrupt her: "What is he, then?"

"An angel," Miss Jillgall answered, solemnly. "A destitute earthly creature like me must not
look up as high as your father. I might be dazzled."

This was rather more than I could endure patiently. "Let us try," I suggested, "if we can't
understand each other, at starting."

Miss Jillgall's little eyes twinkled in their bony caverns. "The very thing I was going to
propose!" she burst out.

"Very well," I went on; "then, let me tell you plainly that flattery is not relished in this
house."

"Flattery?" She put her hand to her head as she repeated the word, and looked quite bewildered.
"Dear Helena, I have lived all my life in East Flanders, and my own language is occasionally
strange to me. Can you tell me what flattery is in Flemish?"

"I don't understand Flemish."

"How very provoking! You don't understand Flemish, and I don't understand Flattery. I should
so like to know what it means. Ah, I see books in this lovely room. Is there a dictionary among
them?" She darted to the bookcase, and discovered a dictionary. "Now I shall understand Flattery,"
she remarked--"and then we shall understand each other. Oh, let me find it for myself!" She
ran her raw red finger along the alphabetical headings at the top of each page. "'FAD.' That
won't do. 'FIE.' Further on still. 'FLE.' Too far the other way. 'FLA.' Here we are! 'Flattery:
False praise. Commendation bestowed for the purpose of gaining favor and influence.' Oh, Helena,
how cruel of you!" She dropped the book, and sank into a chair--the picture, if such a thing
can be, of a broken-hearted old maid.

I should most assuredly have taken the opportunity of leaving her to her own devices, if I
had been free to act as I pleased. But my interests as a daughter forbade me to make an enemy
of my father's cousin, on the first day when she had entered the house. I made an apology,
very neatly expressed.

She jumped up--let me do her justice; Miss Jillgall is as nimble as a monkey--and (Faugh!)
she kissed me for the second time. If I had been a man, I am afraid I should have called for
that deadly poison (we are all temperance people in this house) known by the name of Brandy.

"If you will make me love you," Miss Jillgall explained, "you must expect to be kissed. Dear
girl, let us go back to my poor little petition. Oh, do make me useful! There are so many things
I can do: you will find me a treasure in the house. I write a good hand; I understand polishing
furniture; I can dress hair (look at my own hair); I play and sing a little when people want
to be amused; I can mix a salad and knit stockings--who is this?" The cook came in, at the
moment, to consult me; I introduced her. "And, oh," cried Miss Jillgall, in ecstasy, "I can
cook! Do, please, let me see the kitchen."

The cook's face turned red. She had come to me to make a confession; and she had not (as she
afterward said) bargained for the presence of a stranger. For the first time in her life she
took the liberty of whispering to me: "I must ask you, miss, to let me send up the cauliflower
plain boiled; I don't understand the directions in the book for doing it in the foreign way."

Miss Jillgall's ears--perhaps because they are so large--possess a quickness of hearing quite
unparalleled in my experience. Not one word of the cook's whispered confession had escaped her.

"Here," she declared, "is an opportunity of making myself useful! What is the cook's name?
Hannah? Take me downstairs, Hannah, and I'll show you how to do the cauliflower in the foreign
way. She seems to hesitate. Is it possible that she doesn't believe me? Listen, Hannah, and
judge for yourself if I am deceiving you. Have you boiled the cauliflower? Very well; this
is what you must do next. Take four ounces of grated cheese, two ounces of best butter, the
yolks of four eggs, a little bit of glaze, lemon-juice, nutmeg--dear, dear, how black she looks.
What have I said to offend her?"

The cook passed over the lady who had presumed to instruct her, as if no such person had been
present, and addressed herself to me: "If I am to be interfered with in my own kitchen, miss,
I will ask you to suit yourself at a month's notice."

Miss Jillgall wrung her hands in despair.

"I meant so kindly," she said; "and I seem to have made mischief. With the best intentions,
Helena, I have set you and your servant at variance. I really didn't know you had such a temper,
Hannah," she declared, following the cook to the door. "I'm sure there's nothing I am not ready
to do to make it up with you. Perhaps you have not got the cheese downstairs? I'm ready to
go out and buy it for you. I could show you how to keep eggs sweet and fresh for weeks together.
Your gown doesn't fit very well; I shall be glad to improve it, if you will leave it out for
me after you have gone to bed. There!" cried Miss Jillgall, as the cook majestically left the
room, without even looking at her, "I have done my best to make it up, and you see how my advances
are received. What more could I have done? I really ask you, dear, as a friend, what more could
I have done?"

I had it on the tip of my tongue to say: "The cook doesn't ask you to buy cheese for her, or
to teach her how to keep eggs, or to improve the fit of her gown; all she wants is to have
her kitchen to herself." But here again it was necessary to remember that this odious person
was my father's guest.

"Pray don't distress yourself," I began; "I am sure you are not to blame, Miss Jillgall--"

"Oh, don't!"

"Don't--what?"

"Don't call me Miss Jillgall. I call you Helena. Call me Selina."

I had really not supposed it possible that she could be more unendurable than ever. When she
mentioned her Christian name, she succeeded nevertheless in producing that result. In the whole
list of women's names, is there any one to be found so absolutely sickening as "Selina"? I
forced myself to pronounce it; I made another neatly-expressed apology; I said English servants
were so very peculiar. Selina was more than satisfied; she was quite delighted.

"Is that it, indeed? An explanation was all I wanted. How good of you! And now tell me--is
there no chance, in the house or out of the house, of my making myself useful? Oh, what's that?
Do I see a chance? I do! I do!"

Miss Jillgall's eyes are more than mortal. At one time, they are microscopes. At another time,
they are telescopes. She discovered (right across the room) the torn place in the window-curtain.
In an instant, she snatched a dirty little leather case out of her pocket, threaded her needle
and began darning the curtain. She sang over her work. "My heart is light, my will is free--"
I can repeat no more of it. When I heard her singing voice, I became reckless of consequences,
and ran out of the room with my hands over my ears.

CHAPTER XVI. HELENA'S DIARY.

When I reached the foot of the stairs, my father called me into his study.

I found him at his writing-table, with such a heap of torn-up paper in his waste-basket that
it overflowed on to the floor. He explained to me that he had been destroying a large accumulation
of old letters, and had ended (when his employment began to grow wearisome) in examining his
correspondence rather carelessly. The result was that he had torn up a letter, and a copy of
the reply, which ought to have been set aside as worthy of preservation. After collecting the
fragments, he had heaped them on the table. If I could contrive to put them together again
on fair sheets of paper, and fasten them in their right places with gum, I should be doing
him a service, at a time when he was too busy to set his mistake right for himself.

Here was the best excuse that I could desire for keeping out of Miss Jillgall's way. I cheerfully
set to work on the restoration of the letters, while my father went on with his writing.

Having put the fragments together--excepting a few gaps caused by morsels that had been lost--I
was unwilling to fasten them down with gum, until I could feel sure of not having made any
mistakes; especially in regard to some of the lost words which I had been obliged to restore
by guess-work. So I copied the letters, and submitted them, in the first place, to my father's
approval. He praised me in the prettiest manner for the care that I had taken. But, when he
began, after some hesitation, to read my copy, I noticed a change. The smile left his face,
and the nervous quiverings showed themselves again.

"Quite right, my child," he said, in low sad tones.

On returning to my side of the table, I expected to see him resume his writing. He crossed
the room to the window and stood (with his back to me) looking out.

When I had first discovered the sense of the letters, they failed to interest me. Not
satisfied yet, filled her with bruises and scratches, and we can assure that if the screams
the maid, had not been visiting the site of the bloody scene to all dependents the palace, and even
to the same husband, it was likely he had killed the she had been cause of their suffering.

Felipe,
seeing his beloved stripped of the object that most excites you,
filled with indignation: and were so many insults, so many offensive
and insulting words directed to his wife, who had said he was not
equal to the most despised woman in society.

Having seen that Felipe was in this way, contributed a great way to
disrupt full trial.

Juana could never believe such treatment in her husband.

The shocking scene you just painted, he soon reached the ears of Queen Elizabeth, and had such
a great feeling that was the cause of his illness was further aggravated. However, sought by all
means at its disposal, to introduce peace among their children, not be so possible to achieve
for some time: the Archduchess had a wound that was not easy to heal. Finally, they reached
their pleas to reconciliation. Joined husbands, but not so Juana regained peace of mind.

Meanwhile Isabel's health waned by the minute. His sufferings were so continuous no longer doubted
his early death. One of the main characters of the court, only Crown of Castile to his daughter
Juana, and failing this to D. Charles, his grandson; but warning that if the first was prevented,
and Charles did not have twenty years govern D. Fernando, until he came to this age.

Indeed, on 26 November 1504 Medina del Campo died in Queen Elizabeth Catholic, and the next
day ordered D. Fernando proclaimed by Queen of Spain to his daughter Archduchess of Austria.
The Court shall in Toro January 11, 1508, were First they swore to Queen Juana by owner of vast
estates in Spain. No could then leave the Archduke of Flanders, both for the many issues pending
therein, for the advanced state of pregnancy of the queen being born by little time by Princess
Mary.

Juana reset your delivery, they stood in the way, but a heavy storm, he made arrival to England,
whose kingdom was well received. A few days after split with direction to Spain, arriving on April
26, 1506 La Coruna, where he expected most part of the greatness to receive and pay a fitting
tribute to their new monarch. On their way Valladolid were sworn in, and there enjoyed the festivities
that had prevented its gift.

He seemed extremely relieved at this time Doña Juana, no more than trying to please to her husband
in everything, and leaving him to rule the kingdom to his taste. But how little it lasted this
happiness! So that concluded the Cortes of Valladolid, determined through the main capital of Spain
to become known, because so required everywhere. Began Burgos his race, but unfortunately
oh! In one afternoon they went for a walk, heated up therefore D. Felipe in a game of ball, which
he suffered pneumonia, whose result was subjected to six days, leaving Juana pregnant six
months. Felipe died Beautiful day on September 29, 1506, when he was only twenty-eight years.

Such
was the powerful influence that worked in the imagination of the
new Queen's unexpected death her husband, that many days was beside
himself, and locked in the room that she looked more gloomy and sad.

During this alienating, they had made the funeral and therefore the king's body buried in the
Charterhouse of Miraflores. Once this came to his notice, sent it bring in a clearly arranged
and bituminized, because I wanted to live away from him. So was performed, and not allow anyone
to enter, carrying the days and nights looking at the remnants of the idol of his love. [*] No
kind of prayers made her withdraw away from the body. In vain were the warnings of Cardinal
Cisneros; useless against those of women and main characters, noting the need to address business
of the kingdom. Remained closed from inside the room and ordered a window for which there
could send some food.

[* See the engraving that goes in front of this story.]

Many times it would great to know that the alteration was Spain, and
answered if your child was ready, came to rule, and if not, his father,
that she had other the most sacred duties to fulfill as a widow.

Several of the characters believed, to hear her talk to sanity sometimes,
if the mistress of her husband would have used some spells to make
her suffer so terribly.

What credulity of the time! Not long before no deviation to the same Queen Juana will appear
unbearable that existence, and shortly after called Cardinal Cisneros, informing him I could not live
any longer in the capital where her husband was dead, but the Cardinal I wanted to suspend his determination
then, on account of being in an advanced state of pregnancy, but the will of Doña Juana was
always determined, dared not oppose its mandate. The court moved to Valladolid, by order of Queen
expresses.

Using very short days left Burgos on 20 December 1506, accompanied
by an increased number of subjects with lighted torches, many Franciscan
friars also with lights, Prior of the Carthusian monks who were saying
and some daily Masses for the soul of the sovereign, whose carton
was in the midst of this funeral procession, followed by car and unhappy
Juana Ladies and gentlemen of the palace.

Thus movement until Torquemada where the queen would not go on, staying at the home of a cleric,
and exposes that health status not allowed to continue. On January 14, 1507 gave birth to this
town The Infanta Doña Catalina.

Sad and heartbreaking was this year for Spain. A consequence of poverty and lack large developed
a fever that caused innumerable damage. "And you believe that in spite of being the Torquemada
people one of the most invaded by the epidemic were not enough the entreaties of Cardinal
Queen to continue its path?

Were many and repeated instances that to this cost, to make late April to return to starting out
with the same device at first, but soon tired of traveling. On arriving at two distant Plates
Torquemada leagues, he wanted to take up residence in it, would live with more comfort exposes in
a large population. So he returned to shut himself up in a small village with lifeless body of
her husband, not ceasing to speak, and with affection, and with complaints, and with counterclaims,
which further increase their incurable madness.

Everything remained so until the news gave her father's coming to Spain. This news was received
with great pleasure, because at the time expressed a desire to find out with D. Fernando, in
Castile, advirtierdo which was to be in short stages and with the
same funeral procession.

Unnecessarily tired ruler of the kingdom, archbishop of Toledo, to make day travel without the
body of her husband, all was in vain, so that there was no other resource repeat every night
burial. So they walked to enter Tórtoles, population where his father was pleased to embrace.
But what was the surprise of D. Fernando to find his dearest daughter in that situation, those
wild eyes, his face cadaverous and that wandering eye! When it came to mind was what had caused
his daughter was in that state, it choked off, and big tears streaked her cheeks. Juana was
motionless, weeping, father of my heart? said, your daughter can no longer imitate. When I surprised
my husband's mistress, I ran out of tears. Consider what would my sadness!

Juana had reached the last degree of madness, was completely crazy, but nevertheless owner was
Queen of Spain and his name and consent were necessary to give some character to the acts
of government. This consideration prompted the Catholic king to enter into some consultations
with their daughter for the best deal of business and back again
to govern dominions of Spain.

Joanna, meanwhile, admitted without any reply as he proposed his father, putting only one condition,
that had to leave to stay in the village of Arcos, "in complete freedom, without having to intervene
in another business, to spend the day the rest of this life, next to the body of her husband. "Much
of it worked vary from this thought, but being useless was granted permission by sending prepare
a house in Arcos, worthy of the person who was going to live.

Over a year and a half Juana lived in the village of Arcos but nothing had been improved his
madness. Was to see, say some, the animated conversations that this unfortunate lady, had the
corpse of her husband talks that further increase their delirium, and that instead of alleviating,
aggravates it. "Why no answer, Philip? he said: Callais!

... I still sereis !...» These words Proferia unfaithful to her husband, and others that would
cause shame listen.

From Santa Maria del Campo wrote D. His daughter Fernando warning of the need I had to leave to Tordesillas
and making it more healthy population know was that the village Arcos, and consequently had determined,
to receive on their way to this point.

Dona Juana, was perfectly, according to the answer, in Arcos. So seeing the Catholic king that
his daughter did not accede to his entreaties made the determination, to go for her to see if
their presence could accompany him to Tordesillas. So did D. Fernando Having failed with the influence
exercised over her daughter goes to make that point, but Traveling on the same apparatus in
the other expeditions. Be the temperament to have changed, Whether the trip was not to his
liking, the fact is that Queen Juana was more furious each time, and took more increase its already
incurable disease.

The old Luis Ferrer was the one responsible for the care of Doña Juana, and which is I could not
see, that's why it was a huge opposition to all that the charge made,
pleasure in executing the contrary.

If the pleading, for example, lie down in bed did in the ground and if available to be moved
to another room, but decent and well ventilated closed with more strength bolts of it was. When it
was cold, skin discarded and objects that provided shelter, and the more we begged to dress Luis
Ferrer and asease, walking harder dirty and badly dressed. Shortly after he put on his head the
mania of eating and drinking, and there was occasion for them to go three days without taking anything
up that beset by hunger, took something, striving for dishes where the food sent to him not
go out of his room, so that these objects soiled with others, gave a foul odor to that dwelling,
and impossible for both to bear it. There were moments when, after a great delusion, enjoyed
some reason, and lamented that they had torn the crown of temples and is not happy his enemies with
a burst of this kind, had been buried in a so stinking dungeon guarded by a guard as negligible.

These words came with lightning speed to the ears of the Roman Catholic D. Fernando, so is that
the next year of 1510, when he passed to the Cortes of Monzon, made by visiting, and made
sure everything came together a great council to discuss the method
was to look forward to his daughter, he knew that the presence of
D. Luis Ferrer's tormented, the board came out, that after having
provided all necessary toiletries, clothes and food, would be elected
twelve ladies for continuing care of her, and every night to stay
awake to compel her to dress, undress and move from shirt, even against
their will.

Twenty days was accompanying the King Catholic Doña Juana, which was less badly, but after that
they are obliged to execute the agreement by his father, seized her in a rage so great that no
one could stay at his side. More proactive Cardinal Cisneros greats who had made the council
believed Don appropriate Jubilee Luis Ferrer, because they thought that maybe it would happen
appoint another better Doña Juana did so by substituting it with Don Fernando Ducos de Estrada.
This gentleman was that the ability he showed in the performance of their duties, which he recently
managed to eat and drank, they slept in their bed, which aseara and dress, and until they
moved from room, because his was not more than a foul dunghill. It was to strengthen their
physical, because with his usual finesse and manners, did this gentleman to go to Mass and attending
to various religious activities.

And his fits of madness were less consistent, so is that certain sections of sight the coffin of
her husband, a few days after being taken to Granada, and although it was great his exasperation
when he perceived, he finally D. Fernando Estrada Ducos reassurance. But do not think that this
came to be good at all, never reached this unhappy queen to regain its lost cool. However, the Catholic
king wrote to Estrada, giving the more affectionate and repeated thanks for the service he
had done to his daughter.

At this time there was already one person who was not aware of the disease Queen Juana, but
nevertheless retained some hope of relief, but rather the daughter desire of his subjects, that
of possibility.

In the Cortes held in Valladolid in January 1518 decreed that if any Queen Juana time was in
a position to command the vast domains of Spain cease his governorship
the Catholic King D. Fernando, and that Joanna was the absolute sovereign.

CHAPTER

IV.

The splits that were in Spain, and death of Doña Juana.

There was much dissension in Spain with several parties that began
to form a favor de Doña Juana, others to his son D. Charles, others
to his father, and some others who wanted to come to govern the Emperor
Maximilian I, his father, so I already Spain in 1520 fighting the
dying for their freedom.

                    Supporters of Charles V raised in Castile the banner of independence,
and the chiefs of each other party to give value flocked to his determination
to Doña Juana.

Cardinal Cisneros, then regent and governor the kingdom, was the
first appeal to the queen decided to see if they could leave the hurried
circumstances in which the parties had placed to the provinces and
particularly to Valladolid.

How many were going to discuss such sensitive matters with the queen, came out very unhappy
not ever get a reply worthy of placate the revolutionaries. But the great talents of Cardinal
governor and all that composed his royal council, managed, but at the expense of a tireless work
to defuse turmoil, and soon after, when he died D. King Ferdinand, Spain began to rule the Emperor
Charles V, not to be sufficient capacity for it, his mother Juana. And other occupied to this
lady thought that had come to embittered over his miserable life. The Marquis of Denia brought
the news of the death of her father who put topped news of everything
without invoking cease the names of her husband and their father,
screaming so loud and out of touch, which had Sometimes we all feared
for his life.

No lady or gentleman dared to stay alone at his side. His eyes bloodshot, his face gaunt, his
decomposed hair, everything inspired horror.

In this sad state spent the rest of his life unhappy queen in the palace of Tordesillas where forty-six
years was struggling with what everyone knows, and there being nothing in his imagination than the
memory of his beloved father and the jealousy of her idolized husband.

Known after the beds have just referred, the remainder of his life, in spite of the long and
terrible suffering, was very long, offered no novelty, worthy of mentioned.

Queen of Spain, Doña Juana, stretched out his days until the seventy-three years, without his
incurable evil had been able to find a corrective, but in recent
months, extraordinary aggravated.

Never had condition of another kind, so to have lived a long time Philip the Fair, would have
to spy for his wrongdoing to the queen, a creditor of best manners.

In early 1555 he began to get sick of considerable consideration, going so far of not wanting
to take any medicine.

"It may be anxiety," he said, "or it may be overwork. In either case, your father is in a state
of nervous derangement, which is likely to lead to serious results--unless he takes the advice
that I gave him when he last consulted me. There must be no more hesitation about it. Be careful
not to irritate him--but remember that he must rest. You and your sister have some influence
over him; he won't listen to me."

Poor dear papa! I did see a change in him for the worse--though I had only been away for so
short a time.

When I put my arms round his neck, and kissed him, he turned pale, and then flushed up suddenly:
the tears came into his eyes. Oh, it was hard to follow the doctor's advice, and not to cry,
too; but I succeeded in controlling myself. I sat on his knee, and made him tell me all that
I have written here about Helena. This led to our talking next of the new lady, who is to live
with us as a member of the family. I began to feel less uneasy at the prospect of being introduced
to this stranger, when I heard that she was papa's cousin. And when he mentioned her name,
and saw how it amused me, his poor worn face brightened into a smile. "Go and find her," he
said, "and introduce yourself. I want to hear, Eunice, if you and my cousin are likely to get
on well together."

The servants told me that Miss Jillgall was in the garden.

I searched here, there, and everywhere, and failed to find her. The place was so quiet, it
looked so deliciously pure and bright, after smoky dreary London, that I sat down at the further
end of the garden and let my mind take me back to Philip. What was he doing at that moment,
while I was thinking of him? Perhaps he was in the company of other young ladies, who drew
all his thoughts away to themselves? Or perhaps he was writing to his father in Ireland, and
saying something kindly and prettily about me? Or perhaps he was looking forward, as anxiously
as I do, to our meeting next week.

I have had my plans, and I have changed my plans.

On the railway journey, I thought I would tell papa at once of the new happiness which seems
to have put a new life into me. It would have been delightful to make my confession to that
first and best and dearest of friends; but my meeting with the doctor spoiled it all. After
what he had said to me, I discovered a risk. If I ventured to tell papa that my heart was set
on a young gentleman who was a stranger to him, could I be sure that he would receive my confession
favorably? There was a chance that it might irritate him--and the fault would then be mine
of doing what I had been warned to avoid. It might be safer in every way to wait till Philip
paid his visit, and he and papa had been introduced to each other and charmed with each other.
Could Helena herself have arrived at a wiser conclusion? I declare I felt proud of my own discretion.

In this enjoyable frame of mind I was disturbed by a woman's voice. The tone was a tone of
distress, and the words reached my ears from the end of the garden: "Please, miss, let me in."

A shrubbery marks the limit of our little bit of pleasure-ground. On the other side of it there
is a cottage standing on the edge of the common. The most good-natured woman in the world lives
here. She is our laundress--married to a stupid young fellow named Molly, and blessed with
a plump baby as sweet-tempered at herself. Thinking it likely that the piteous voice which
had disturbed me might be the voice of Mrs. Molly, I was astonished to hear her appealing to
anybody (perhaps to me?) to "let her in." So I passed through the shrubbery, wondering whether
the gate had been locked during my absence in London. No; it was as easy to open as ever.

The cottage door was not closed.

I saw our amiable laundress in the passage, on her knees, trying to open an inner door which
seemed to be locked. She had her eye at the keyhole; and, once again, she called out: "Please,
miss, let me in." I waited to see if the door would be opened--nothing happened. I waited again,
to hear if some person inside would answer--nobody spoke. But somebody, or something, made
a sound of splashing water on the other side of the door.

I showed myself, and asked what was the matter.

Mrs. Molly looked at me helplessly. She said: "Miss Eunice, it's the baby."

"What has the baby done?" I inquired.

Mrs. Molly got on her feet, and whispered in my ear: "You know he's a fine child?"

"Yes."

"Well, miss, he's bewitched a lady."

"What lady?"

"Miss Jillgall."

The very person I had been trying to find! I asked where she was.

The laundress pointed dolefully to the locked door: "In there."

"And where is your baby?"

The poor woman still pointed to the door: "I'm beginning to doubt, miss, whether it is my baby."

"Nonsense, Mrs. Molly. If it isn't yours, whose baby can it be?"

"Miss Jillgall's."

Her puzzled face made this singular reply more funny still. The splashing of water on the other
side of the door began again. "What is Miss Jillgall doing now?" I said.

"Washing the baby, miss. A week ago, she came in here, one morning; very pleasant and kind,
I must own. She found me putting on the baby's things. She says: 'What a cherub!' which I took
as a compliment. She says: 'I shall call again to-morrow.' She called again so early that she
found the baby in his crib. 'You be a good soul,' she says, 'and go about your work, and leave
the child to me.' I says: 'Yes, miss, but please to wait till I've made him fit to be seen.'
She says: 'That's just what I mean to do myself.' I stared; and I think any other person would
have done the same in my place. 'If there's one thing more than another I enjoy,' she says,
'it's making myself useful. Mrs. Molly, I've taken a fancy to your boy-baby,' she says, 'and
I mean to make myself useful to him.' If you will believe me, Miss Jillgall has only let me
have one opportunity of putting my own child tidy. She was late this morning, and I got my
chance, and had the boy on my lap, drying him--when in she burst like a blast of wind, and
snatched the baby away from me. 'This is your nasty temper,' she says; 'I declare I'm ashamed
of you!' And there she is, with the door locked against me, washing the child all over again
herself. Twice I've knocked, and asked her to let me in, and can't even get an answer. They
do say there's luck in odd numbers; suppose I try again?" Mrs. Molly knocked, and the proverb
proved to be true; she got an answer from Miss Jillgall at last: "If you don't be quiet and
go away, you shan't have the baby back at all." Who could help it?--I burst out laughing. Miss
Jillgall (as I supposed from the tone of her voice) took severe notice of this act of impropriety.
"Who's that laughing?" she called out; "give yourself a name." I gave my name. The door was
instantly thrown open with a bang. Papa's cousin appeared, in a disheveled state, with splashes
of soap and water all over her. She held the child in one arm, and she threw the other arm
round my neck. "Dearest Euneece, I have been longing to see you. How do you like Our baby?"

To the curious story of my introduction to Miss Jillgall, I ought perhaps to add that I have
got to be friends with her already. I am the friend of anybody who amuses me. What will Helena
say when she reads this?

CHAPTER XIX. EUNICE'S DIARY.

When people are interested in some event that is coming, do they find the dull days, passed
in waiting for it, days which they are not able to remember when they look back? This is my
unfortunate case. Night after night, I have gone to bed without so much as opening my Journal.
There was nothing worth writing about, nothing that I could recollect, until the postman came
to-day. I ran downstairs, when I heard his ring at the bell, and stopped Maria on her way to
the study. There, among papa's usual handful of letters, was a letter for me.

"DEAR MISS EUNICE:

.......

"Yours ever truly."

I quote the passages in Philip's letter which most deeply interested me--I am his dear miss;
and he is mine ever truly. The other part of the letter told me that he had been detained in
London, and he lamented it. At the end was a delightful announcement that he was coming to
me by the afternoon train. I ran upstairs to see how I looked in the glass.

My first feeling was regret. For the thousandth time, I was obliged to acknowledge that I was
not as pretty as Helena. But this passed off. A cheering reflection occurred to me. Philip
would not have found, in my sister's face, what seems to have interested him in my face. Besides,
there is my figure.

The pity of it is that I am so ignorant about some things. If I had been allowed to read novels,
I might (judging by what papa said against them in one of his sermons) have felt sure of my
own attractions; I might even have understood what Philip really thought of me. However, my
mind was quite unexpectedly set at ease on the subject of my figure. The manner in which it
happened was so amusing--at least, so amusing to me--that I cannot resist mentioning it.

My sister and I are forbidden to read newspapers, as well as novels. But the teachers at the
Girls' Scripture Class are too old to be treated in this way. When the morning lessons were
over, one of them was reading the newspaper to the other, in the empty schoolroom; I being
in the passage outside, putting on my cloak.

It was a report of "an application made to the magistrates by the lady of his worship the Mayor."
Hearing this, I stopped to listen. The lady of his worship (what a funny way of describing
a man's wife!) is reported to be a little too fond of notoriety, and to like hearing the sound
of her own voice on public occasions. But this is only my writing; I had better get back to
the report. "In her address to the magistrates, the Mayoress stated that she had seen a disgusting
photograph in the shop window of a stationer, lately established in the town. She desired to
bring this person within reach of the law, and to have all his copies of the shameless photograph
destroyed. The usher of the court was thereupon sent to purchase the photograph."--On second
thoughts, I prefer going back to my own writing again; it is so uninteresting to copy other
people's writing. Two of the magistrates were doing justice. They looked at the photograph--and
what did it represent? The famous statue called the Venus de' Medici! One of the magistrates
took this discovery indignantly. He was shocked at the gross ignorance which could call the
classic ideal of beauty and grace a disgusting work. The other one made polite allowances.
He thought the lady was much to be pitied; she was evidently the innocent victim of a neglected
education. Mrs. Mayor left the court in a rage, telling the justices she knew where to get
law. "I shall expose Venus," she said, "to the Lord Chancellor."

When the Scripture Class had broken up for the day, duty ought to have taken me home. Curiosity
led me astray--I mean, led me to the stationer's window.

There I found our two teachers, absorbed in the photograph; having got to the shop first by
a short cut. They seemed to think I had taken a liberty whom I joined them. "We are here,"
they were careful to explain, "to get a lesson in the ideal of beauty and grace." There was
quite a little crowd of townsfolk collected before the window. Some of them giggled; and some
of them wondered whether it was taken from the life. For my own part, gratitude to Venus obliges
me to own that she effected a great improvement in the state of my mind. She encouraged me.
If that stumpy little creature--with no waist, and oh, such uncertain legs!--represented the
ideal of beauty and grace, I had reason indeed to be satisfied with my own figure, and to think
it quite possible that my sweetheart's favorable opinion of me was not ill-bestowed.

I was at the bedroom window when the time approached for Philip's arrival. Quite at the far
end of the road, I discovered him. He was on foot; he walked like a king. Not that I ever saw
a king, but I have my ideal. Ah, what a smile he gave me, when I made him look up by waving
my handkerchief out of the window! "Ask for papa," I whispered as he ascended the house-steps.

The next thing to do was to wait, as patiently as I could, to be sent for downstairs. Maria
came to me in a state of excitement. "Oh, miss, what a handsome young gentleman, and how beautifully
dressed! Is he--?" Instead of finishing what she had to say, she looked at me with a sly smile.
I looked at her with a sly smile. We were certainly a couple of fools. But, dear me, how happy
sometimes a fool can be!

My enjoyment of that delightful time was checked when I went into the drawing-room.

I had expected to see papa's face made beautiful by his winning smile. He was not only serious;
he actually seemed to be ill at ease when he looked at me. At the same time, I saw nothing
to make me conclude that Philip had produced an unfavorable impression. The truth is, we were
all three on our best behavior, and we showed it. Philip had brought with him a letter from
Mrs. Staveley, introducing him to papa. We spoke of the Staveleys, of the weather, of the Cathedral--and
then there seemed to be nothing more left to talk about.

In the silence that followed--what a dreadful thing silence is!--papa was sent for to see somebody
who had called on business. He made his excuses in the sweetest manner, but still seriously.
When he and Philip had shaken hands, would he leave us together? No; he waited. Poor Philip
had no choice but to take leave of me. Papa then went out by the door that led into his study,
and I was left alone.

Can any words say how wretched I felt?

I had hoped so much from that first meeting--and where were my hopes now? A profane wish that
I had never been born was finding its way into my mind, when the door of the room was opened
softly, from the side of the passage. Maria, dear Maria, the best friend I have, peeped in.
She whispered: "Go into the garden, miss, and you will find somebody there who is dying to
see you. Mind you let him out by the shrubbery gate." I squeezed her hand; I asked if she had
tried the shrubbery gate with a sweetheart of her own. "Hundreds of times, miss."

Was it wrong for me to go to Philip, in the garden? Oh, there is no end to objections! Perhaps
I did it because it was wrong. Perhaps I had been kept on my best behavior too long for human
endurance.

How sadly disappointed he looked! And how rashly he had placed himself just where he could
be seen from the back windows! I took his arm and led him to the end of the garden. There we
were out of the reach of inquisitive eyes; and there we sat down together, under the big mulberry
tree.

"Oh, Eunice, your father doesn't like me!"

Those were his first words. In justice to papa (and a little for my own sake too) I told him
he was quite wrong. I said: "Trust my father's goodness, trust his kindness, as I do."

He made no reply. His silence was sufficiently expressive; he looked at me fondly.

I may be wrong, but fond looks surely require an acknowledgment of some kind? Is a young woman
guilty of boldness who only follows her impulses? I slipped my hand into his hand. Philip seemed
to like it. We returned to our conversation.

He began: "Tell me, dear, is Mr. Gracedieu always as serious as he is to-day?"

"Oh no!"

"When he takes exercise, does he ride? or does he walk?"

"Papa always walks."

"By himself?"

"Sometimes by himself. Sometimes with me. Do you want to meet him when he goes out?"

"Yes."

"When he is out with me?"

"No. When he is out by himself."

Was it possible to tell me more plainly that I was not wanted? I did my best to express indignation
by snatching my hand away from him. He was completely taken by surprise.

"Eunice! don't you understand me?"

I was as stupid and as disagreeable as I could possibly be: "No; I don't!"

"Then let me help you," he said, with a patience which I had not deserved.

Up to that moment I had been leaning against the back of a garden chair. Something else now
got between me and my chair. It stole round my waist--it held me gently--it strengthened its
hold--it improved my temper--it made me fit to understand him. All done by what? Only an arm!

Philip went on:

"I want to ask your father to do me the greatest of all favors--and there is no time to lose.
Every day, I expect to get a letter which may recall me to Ireland."

My heart sank at this horrid prospect; and in some mysterious way my head must have felt it
too. I mean that I found my head resting on his shoulder. He went on:

"How am I to get my opportunity of speaking to Mr. Gracedieu? I mustn't call on him again as
soon as to-morrow or next day. But I might meet him, out walking alone, if you will tell me
how to do it. A note to my hotel is all I want. Don't tremble, my sweet. If you are not present
at the time, do you see any objection to my owning to your father that I love you?"

I felt his delicate consideration for me--I did indeed feel it gratefully. If he only spoke
first, how well I should get on with papa afterward! The prospect before me was exquisitely
encouraging. I agreed with Philip in everything; and I waited (how eagerly was only known to
myself) to hear what he would say to me next. He prophesied next:

"When I have told your father that I love you, he will expect me to tell him something else.
Can you guess what it is?"

If I had not been confused, perhaps I might have found the answer to this. As it was, I left
him to reply to himself. He did it, in words which I shall remember as long as I live.

"Dearest Eunice, when your father has heard my confession, he will suspect that there is another
confession to follow it--he will want to know if you love me. My angel, will my hopes be your
hopes too, when I answer him?"

What there was in this to make my heart beat so violently that I felt as if I was being stifled,
is more than I can tell. He leaned so close to me, so tenderly, so delightfully close, that
our faces nearly touched. He whispered: "Say you love me, in a kiss!"

His lips touched my lips, pressed them, dwelt on them--oh, how can I tell of it! Some new enchantment
of feeling ran deliciously through and through me. I forgot my own self; I only knew of one
person in the world. He was master of my lips; he was master of my heart. When he whispered,
"kiss me," I kissed. What a moment it was! A faintness stole over me; I felt as if I was going
to die some exquisite death; I laid myself back away from him--I was not able to speak. There
was no need for it; my thoughts and his thoughts were one--he knew that I was quite overcome;
he saw that he must leave me to recover myself alone. I pointed to the shrubbery gate. We took
one long last look at each other for that day; the trees hid him; I was left by myself.

CHAPTER XX. EUNICE'S DIARY.

How long a time passed before my composure came back to me, I cannot remember now. It seemed
as if I was waiting through some interval of my life that was a mystery to myself. I was content
to wait, and feel the light evening air in the garden wafting happiness over me. And all this
had come from a kiss! I can call the time to mind when I used to wonder why people made such
a fuss about kissing.

I had been indebted to Maria for my first taste of Paradise. I was recalled by Maria to the
world that I had been accustomed to live in; the world that was beginning to fade away in my
memory already. She had been sent to the garden in search of me; and she had a word of advice
to offer, after noticing my face when I stepped out of the shadow of the tree: "Try to look
more like yourself, miss, before you let them see you at the tea-table."

Papa and Miss Jillgall were sitting together talking, when I opened the door. They left off
when they saw me; and I supposed, quite correctly as it turned out, that I had been one of
the subjects in their course of conversation. My poor father seemed to be sadly anxious and
out of sorts. Miss Jillgall, if I had been in the humor to enjoy it, would have been more amusing
than ever. One of her funny little eyes persisted in winking at me; and her heavy foot had
something to say to my foot, under the table, which meant a great deal perhaps, but which only
succeeded in hurting me.

My father left us; and Miss Jillgall explained herself.

"I know, dearest Euneece, that we have only been acquainted for a day or two and that I ought
not perhaps to have expected you to confide in me so soon. Can I trust you not to betray me
if I set an example of confidence? Ah, I see I can trust you! And, my dear, I do so enjoy telling
secrets to a friend. Hush! Your father, your excellent father, has been talking to me about
young Mr. Dunboyne."

She provokingly stopped there. I entreated her to go on. She invited me to sit on her knee.
"I want to whisper," she said. It was too ridiculous--but I did it. Miss Jillgall's whisper
told me serious news.

"The minister has some reason, Euneece, for disapproving of Mr. Dunboyne; but, mind this, I
don't think he has a bad opinion of the young man himself. He is going to return Mr. Dunboyne's
call. Oh, I do so hate formality; I really can't go on talking of Mr. Dunboyne. Tell me his
Christian name. Ah, what a noble name! How I long to be useful to him! Tomorrow, my dear, after
the one o'clock dinner, your papa will call on Philip, at his hotel. I hope he won't be out,
just at the wrong time."

I resolved to prevent that unlucky accident by writing to Philip. If Miss Jillgall would have
allowed it, I should have begun my letter at once. But she had more to say; and she was stronger
than I was, and still kept me on her knee.

"It all looks bright enough so far, doesn't it, dear sister? Will you let me be your second
sister? I do so love you, Euneece. Thank you! thank you! But the gloomy side of the picture
is to come next! The minister--no! now I am your sister I must call him papa; it makes me feel
so young again! Well, then, papa has asked me to be your companion whenever you go out. 'Euneece
is too young and too attractive to be walking about this great town (in Helena's absence) by
herself.' That was how he put it. Slyly enough, if one may say so of so good a man. And he
used your sister (didn't he?) as a kind of excuse. I wish your sister was as nice as you are.
However, the point is, why am I to be your companion? Because, dear child, you and your young
gentleman are not to make appointments and to meet each other alone. Oh, yes--that's it! Your
father is quite willing to return Philip's call; he proposes (as a matter of civility to Mrs.
Staveley) to ask Philip to dinner; but, mark my words, he doesn't mean to let Philip have you
for his wife."

I jumped off her lap; it was horrible to hear her. "Oh," I said, "can you be right about it?"
Miss Jillgall jumped up too. She has foreign ways of shrugging her shoulders and making signs
with her hands. On this occasion she laid both hands on the upper part of her dress, just below
her throat, and mysteriously shook her head.

"When my views are directed by my affections," she assured me, "I never see wrong. My bosom
is my strong point."

She has no bosom, poor soul--but I understood what she meant. It failed to have any soothing
effect on my feelings. I felt grieved and angry and puzzled, all in one. Miss Jillgall stood
looking at me, with her hands still on the place where her bosom was supposed to be. She made
my temper hotter than ever.

"I mean to marry Philip," I said.

"Certainly, my dear Euneece. But please don't be so fierce about it."

"If my father does really object to my marriage," I went on, "it must be because he dislikes
Philip. There can be no other reason."

"Oh, yes, dear--there can."

"What is the reason, then?"

"That, my sweet girl, is one of the things that we have got to find out."

.......

The post of this morning brought a letter from my sister. We were to expect her return by the
next day's train. This was good news. Philip and I might stand in need of clever Helena's help,
and we might be sure of getting it now.

In writing to Philip, I had asked him to let me hear how papa and he had got on at the hotel.
I won't say how often I consulted my watch, or how often I looked out of the window for a man
with a letter in his hand. It will be better to get on at once to the discouraging end of it,
when the report of the interview reached me at last. Twice Philip had attempted to ask for
my hand in marriage--and twice my father had "deliberately, obstinately" (Philip's own words)
changed the subject. Even this was not all. As if he was determined to show that Miss Jillgall
was perfectly right, and I perfectly wrong, papa (civil to Philip as long as he did not talk
of Me) had asked him to dine with us, and Philip had accepted the invitation!

What were we to think of it? What were we to do?

I wrote back to my dear love (so cruelly used) to tell him that Helena was expected to return
on the next day, and that her opinion would be of the greatest value to both of us. In a postscript
I mentioned the hour at which we were going to the station to meet my sister. When I say "we,"
I mean Miss Jillgall as well as myself.

.......

We found him waiting for us at the railway. I am afraid he resented papa's incomprehensible
resolution not to give him a hearing. He was silent and sullen. I could not conceal that to
see this state of feeling distressed me. He showed how truly he deserved to be loved--he begged
my pardon, and he became his own sweet self again directly. I am more determined to marry him
than ever.

When the train entered the station, all the carriages were full. I went one way, thinking I
had seen Helena. Miss Jillgall went the other way, under the same impression. Philip was a
little way behind me.

Not seeing my sister, I had just turned back, when a young man jumped out of a carriage, opposite
Philip, and recognized and shook hands with him. I was just near enough to hear the stranger
say, "Look at the girl in our carriage." Philip looked. "What a charming creature!" he said,
and then checked himself for fear the young lady should hear him. She had just handed her traveling
bag and wraps to a porter, and was getting out. Philip politely offered his hand to help her.
She looked my way. The charming creature of my sweetheart's admiration was, to my infinite
amusement, Helena herself.

CHAPTER XXI. HELENA'S DIARY.

The day of my return marks an occasion which I am not likely to forget. Hours have passed since
I came home--and my agitation still forbids the thought of repose.

As I sit at my desk I see Eunice in bed, sleeping peacefully, except when she is murmuring
enjoyment in some happy dream. To what end has my sister been advancing blindfold, and (who
knows?) dragging me with her, since that disastrous visit to our friends in London? Strange
that there should be a leaven of superstition in my nature! Strange that I should feel fear
of something--I hardly know what!

I have met somewhere (perhaps in my historical reading) with the expression: "A chain of events."
Was I at the beginning of that chain, when I entered the railway carriage on my journey home?

Among the other passengers there was a young gentleman, accompanied by a lady who proved to
be his sister. They were both well-bred people. The brother evidently admired me, and did his
best to make himself agreeable. Time passed quickly in pleasant talk, and my vanity was flattered--and
that was all. My fellow-travelers were going on to London. When the train reached our station
the young lady sent her brother to buy some fruit, which she saw in the window of the refreshment-room.
The first man whom he encountered on the platform was one of his friends; to whom he said something
which I failed to hear. When I handed my traveling bag and my wraps to the porter, and showed
myself at the carriage door, I heard the friend say: "What a charming creature!" Having nothing
to conceal in a journal which I protect by a lock, I may own that the stranger's personal appearance
struck me, and that what I felt this time was not flattered vanity, but gratified pride. He
was young, he was remarkably handsome, he was a distinguished-looking man.

All this happened in one moment. In the moment that followed, I found myself in Eunice's arms.
That odious person, Miss Jillgall, insisted on embracing me next. And then I was conscious
of an indescribable feeling of surprise. Eunice presented the distinguished-looking gentleman
to me as a friend of hers--Mr. Philip Dunboyne.

"I had the honor of meeting your sister," he said, "in London, at Mr. Staveley's house." He
went on to speak easily and gracefully of the journey I had taken, and of his friend who had
been my fellow-traveler; and he attended us to the railway omnibus before he took his leave.
I observed that Eunice had something to say to him confidentially, before they parted. This
was another example of my sister's childish character; she is instantly familiar with new acquaintances,
if she happens to like them. I anticipated some amusement from hearing how she had contrived
to establish confidential relations with a highly-cultivated man like Mr. Dunboyne. But, while
Miss Jillgall was with us, it was just as well to keep within the limits of commonplace conversation.

Before we got out of the omnibus I had, however, observed one undesirable result of my absence
from home. Eunice and Miss Jillgall--the latter having, no doubt, finely flattered the former--appeared
to have taken a strong liking to each other.

Two curious circumstances also caught my attention. I saw a change to, what I call self-assertion,
in my sister's manner; something seemed to have raised her in her own estimation. Then, again,
Miss Jillgall was not like her customary self. She had delightful moments of silence; and when
Eunice asked how I liked Mr. Dunboyne, she listened to my reply with an appearance of interest
in her ugly face which was quite a new revelation in my experience of my father's cousin.

These little discoveries (after what I had already observed at the railway-station) ought perhaps
to have prepared me for what was to come, when my sister and I were alone in our room. But
Eunice, whether she meant to do it or not, baffled my customary penetration. She looked as
if she had plenty of news to tell me--with some obstacle in the way of doing it, which appeared
to amuse instead of annoying her. If there is one thing more than another that I hate, it is
being puzzled. I asked at once if anything remarkable had happened during Eunice's visit to London.

She smiled mischievously. "I have got a delicious surprise for you, my dear; and I do so enjoy
prolonging it. Tell me, Helena, what did you propose we should both do when we found ourselves
at home again?"

My memory was at fault. Eunice's good spirits became absolutely boisterous. She called out:
"Catch!" and tossed her journal into my hands, across the whole length of the room. "We were
to read each other's diaries," she said. "There is mine to begin with."

Innocent of any suspicion of the true state of affairs, I began the reading of Eunice's journal.
If I had not seen the familiar handwriting, nothing would have induced me to believe that a
girl brought up in a pious household, the well-beloved daughter of a distinguished Congregational
Minister, could have written that shameless record of passions unknown to young ladies in respectable
English life. What to say, what to do, when I had closed the book, was more than I felt myself
equal to decide. My wretched sister spared me the anxiety which I might otherwise have felt.
It was she who first opened her lips, after the silence that had fallen on us while I was reading.
These were literally the words that she said:

"My darling, why don't you congratulate me?"

No argument could have persuaded me, as this persuaded me, that all sisterly remonstrance on
my part would be completely thrown away.

"My dear Eunice," I said, "let me beg you to excuse me. I am waiting--"

There she interrupted me--and, oh, in what an impudent manner! She took my chin between her
finger and thumb, and lifted my downcast face, and looked at me with an appearance of eager
expectation which I was quite at a loss to understand.

"You have been away from home, too," she said. "Do I see in this serious face some astonishing
news waiting to overpower me? Have you found a sweetheart? Are you engaged to be married?"

I only put her hand away from me, and advised her to return to her chair. This perfectly harmless
proceeding seemed absolutely to frighten her.

"Oh, my dear," she burst out, "surely you are not jealous of me?"

There was but one possible reply to this: I laughed at it. Is Eunice's head turned? She kissed me!

"Now you laugh," she said, "I begin to understand you again; I ought to have known that you
are superior to jealousy. But, do tell me, would it be so very wonderful if other girls found
something to envy in my good luck? Just think of it! Such a handsome man, such an agreeable
man, such a clever man, such a rich man--and, not the least of his merits, by-the-by, a man
who admires You. Come! if you won't congratulate me, congratulate yourself on having such a
brother-in-law in prospect!"

Her head was turned. I drew the poor soul's attention compassionately to what I had said a
moment since.

"Pardon me, dear, for reminding you that I have not yet refused to offer my congratulations.
I only told you I was waiting."

"For what?"

"Waiting, of course, to hear what my father thinks of your wonderful good luck."

This explanation, offered with the kindest intentions, produced another change in my very variable
sister. I had extinguished her good spirits as I might have extinguished a light. She sat down
by me, and sighed in the saddest manner. The heart must be hard indeed which can resist the
distress of a person who is dear to us. I put my arm round her; she was becoming once more
the Eunice whom I so dearly loved.

"My poor child," I said, "don't distress yourself by speaking of it; I understand. Your father
objects to your marrying Mr. Dunboyne."

She shook her head. "I can't exactly say, Helena, that papa does that. He only behaves very
strangely."

"Am I indiscreet, dear, if I ask in what way father's behavior has surprised you?"

She was quite willing to enlighten me. It was a simple little story which, to my mind, sufficiently
explained the strange behavior that had puzzled my unfortunate sister.

There could indeed be no doubt that my father considered Eunice far too childish in character,
as yet, to undertake the duties of matrimony. But, with his customary delicacy, and dread of
causing distress to others, he had deferred the disagreeable duty of communicating his opinion
to Mr. Dunboyne. The adverse decision must, however, be sooner or later announced; and he had
arranged to inflict disappointment, as tenderly as might be, at his own table.

Considerately leaving Eunice in the enjoyment of any vain hopes which she may have founded
on the event of the dinner-party, I passed the evening until supper-time came in the study
with my father.

Our talk was mainly devoted to the worthy people with whom I had been staying, and whose new
schools I had helped to found. Not a word was said relating to my sister, or to Mr. Dunboyne.
Poor father looked so sadly weary and ill that I ventured, after what the doctor had said to
Eunice, to hint at the value of rest and change of scene to an overworked man. Oh, dear me,
he frowned, and waved the subject away from him impatiently, with a wan, pale hand.

After supper, I made an unpleasant discovery. Not having completely finished the unpacking
of my boxes, I left Miss Jillgall and Eunice in the drawing-room, and went upstairs. In half
an hour I returned, and found the room empty. What had become of them? It was a fine moonlight
night; I stepped into the back drawing-room, and looked out of the window. There they were,
walking arm-in-arm with their heads close together, deep in talk. With my knowledge of Miss
Jillgall, I call this a bad sign.

An odd thought has just come to me. I wonder what might have happened, if I had been visiting
at Mrs. Staveley's, instead of Eunice, and if Mr. Dunboyne had seen me first.

Absurd! if I was not too tired to do anything more, those last lines should be scratched out.

CHAPTER XXII. EUNICE'S DIARY.

I said so to Miss Jillgall, and I say it again here. Nothing will induce me to think ill of Helena.

My sister is a good deal tired, and a little out of temper after the railway journey. This
is exactly what happened to me when I went to London. I attribute her refusal to let me read
her journal, after she had read mine, entirely to the disagreeable consequences of traveling
by railway. Miss Jillgall accounted for it otherwise, in her own funny manner: "My sweet child,
your sister's diary is full of abuse of poor me." I humored the joke: "Dearest Selina, keep
a diary of your own, and fill it with abuse of my sister." This seemed to be a droll saying
at the time. But it doesn't look particularly amusing, now it is written down. We had ginger
wine at supper, to celebrate Helena's return. Although I only drank one glass, I daresay it
may have got into my head.

However that may be, when the lovely moonlight tempted us into the garden, there was an end
to our jokes. We had something to talk about which still dwells disagreeably on my mind.

Miss Jillgall began it.

"If I trust you, dearest Euneece, with my own precious secrets, shall I never, never, never
live to repent it?"

I told my good little friend that she might depend on me, provided her secrets did no harm
to any person whom I loved.

She clasped her hands and looked up at the moon--I can only suppose that her sentiments overpowered
her. She said, very prettily, that her heart and my heart beat together in heavenly harmony. 

What he has, some cavalry officer who came to those places to buy horses for the comeback, and it
was gorgeous and very funny and fun, he fell in love and got Juana woo. It is not known whether
he gave a promise of marriage or is not given, but the fact is that the good of the officer
had to go to civil war, which burned in the Basque provinces, and there he killed a Carlist bullet
that pierced her skull and you'll be entered in the brain.

Juana was thus semiviuda. Posthumous posthumously or not, had a beautiful girl, who gave at the
baptismal font the same name as his mother. The mob then added to the name the same epithet,
where this girl, who will be the main heroine of our story, became
Juanita surname.

Her mother was raised with love and care, without restraint and without pretense that she was his
daughter which would have been in that play, where everything was
known, the most futile of dissimulation.

Juana raised, then, to her breasts Juanita, always called her daughter, Juanita since he began to
speak, mother Joan called mouth full.

This was considered a great impudence among the strictest in the place, crying out against the
scandal and bad example, but gradually all became accustomed, and after a few years nothing
seemed more natural and more just, but Juanita was the daughter of Juana, to which there is
no lack defenders, and reasonable, earnest, praising the love and maternal devotion of mother to
daughter, and when they were little cursing did not stop Juana compare with others that passed
through very honest and even had the insolence Presumably almost
holy.

Of them murmured, more or less foundation, which had been also the
fruit, not a blessing, which had dropped off or sent to the Foundling
or God or the devil knows how else.

The epithet given to Juanita Long was not only for inheritance but it was also by conquest.

Juanita,
at seventeen, had gleaned so much that the girl was taller and more slender that was in place. Some
of the blood warlike cavalry officer had been infused in it, and the free and manly upbringing
he had received had developed their agility and their brightness. Whenever she had a martial
air, the pair that funny, ran like a deer, throw stones with such tact that killed the sparrows,
and jumped on the back was planted the mule more vicious or more wild pony. And not to straddle,
because this is not consented their honor and their natural beauty
and unconscious, but sitting, which is more difficult was trot and
gallop to the beast, spurring or whipping heels with the end of halter
or halter when he was not going to do hair, without a bridle or reins
of any kind.

The first years of the youth of Juanita had been difficult, because
his mother had not yet achieved the remarkable reputation enjoyed
after, I had the welfare and wealth that we have already spoken.

Juanita was never a crumb, but his mother taught him to sew and embroider
beautifully; and school teacher, it took a lot of affection, taught
to read and write free their leisure time.

Since he was nine years, Juanita was of great assistance to his mother, who until much later
not had the luxury of having a maid.

Juanita sweeping and mopping, washing dishes, and some rooms whitewashed facade the house, which
was the cleanest of the population, and even grabbed his water jug ​​and was the miraculous
source of the ejido, which poured a stream pipe as thick as the arm
of a robust man, with such an abundance of water, that many gardens
were watered it and made lush, delightful Villalegre around, contributing
not little to the town deserve this name.

Water also was exquisite for its transparency and purity, as filtered through rocks of the nearby
hills, and had very pleasant flavor and very healthy condition. The people of people attributed
to him, finally, some prodigious qualities, calling it very vinaigrette and very wheat. He
meant by this that the carrier it bought in vinegar Villalegre yolk, usually strong, only two-thirds
filled cavity corambre and just filled the early morning, before your journey, mitigating
and smoothing with water from the source strength and bitterness
of the liquid, and earning it, of course, Thirty-three percent, but
sold the vinegar at the same price it was purchased.

Wheat was also the source water because its rare qualities consented, though difficult operation
and should be done with great secrecy, that using a broom palm dwarf, it is sprinkled with
wheat that was going to sell, leaving it exposed to sun for to dry.

So the wheat got better taste, and although the outside was dry, kept by in some of the liquid
and sponge and grew in weight and volume.

This source had yet another merit and provided another notable service, because in addition to a
great pillar that went to drink and drank all the beasts of burden and work and bulls cows and
oxen, and also another pillar under which used to be watering of sheep and pig, filled with its
crystal waves albercón spacious enclosure walls that hid in view of passers-by, where women
were washing clothes, rolled up skirts thigh and stuck in water up to the knee, as there is use,
even in the rigor winter. Lush and gigantic black poplars and pines and reeds surrounding the
source and make this place shady and delightful. At the foot of the best trees are made of stone
benches and clay and covered with slabs, which usually sit in the gentlemen and ladies post-ride.
Almost every evening there is assembled gathering and pleasant conversation, being the more consistent
the notary, the apothecary, our Don Paco and the priest, who touch
to recite the Angelus prayers, which all satisfy his hat and crossed
himself and crossing.

Pillar around chatting the girls who come by water, each with a pitcher, and often Cardigans make
the paper with as many carriers Eliezeres go there to drink, if not their camels, their mules
and donkeys. Also next to and within the albercón, and within walking distance it, where there
is a fence or hedgerow of blackberries, pomegranates, and honeysuckle, which limits and defends
the gardens, and on which the hedge is dried laundry, extends and expands the democratic and
popular gathering a lot of talk, laughter, hassles and frolic, as
there are missing never zagalones and even grown men who go out there
attracted to girls, as the sparrows go to wheat.

V

Juana la Larga, as already stated, through its continuing activity, order and economy, around
which her daughter helped her with intelligence and zeal, had improved position and fortune. He had
a very hard working maid, sweeping and scrubbing, and under the direction
of Ladies cooked well, leaving these free time to pursue their lucrative
trades.

Juanita The main office was sewing and embroidery, which had deployed to higher proficiency that
of his mother.

Juanita did not have to be used in lower occupations. But now it was for innocent vanity, or
desire to look for the grace of his person, wish not realized, pray for Juanita need from physical
exercise and to show and display power their healthy nature, Juanita, and even seventeen years
of age, liked to go for water the source of the ejido, paving sometimes,
despite the well off his mother's position and it albercón going to
wash some clothes when the clothes were fine, she feared, or pretended
fear that rougher hands than his will damage it.

The truth was that this albercón and go to the source, rather than
fatigue was recreation and relaxation for Juanita, which amused the
other girls with their sharp words and happy occurrences the cap was
removed and laugh enjoyed popularity and favor among them.

Juanita was already a pretty girl in every sense of the word. Housework had not spoiled her
pretty, shapely hands, and neither the sun nor the air had tanned his skin brunette. His black hair
with blue highlights, was well kept and clean. Do not put it or sweet almond oil or blandurilla
of any kind, but plain water with an infusion fragrant herbs to wash better. I was pulled high
on the occiput, in braids, which tied then, was a bun in the shape
of equilateral triangles, which played in one corner.

As Juanita said that "head crazy not to play" almost always went to the source without tissue
head, looking like the delicacy and neatness of her hair and showing how well planted I was the
head on her graceful neck, only overshadowed by some ricillos often than is subtracted to captivity
that had the longest hair bow. Ahead, collected hair, showed that forehead, straight, petite,
and the temples had large curls fork held there called snails, below which was a patillita soft,
not fixed against the face with psyllium or quince seeds, as do other girls, but left to float
freely rather vague rings or hooks where hanging hearts.

The same freedom that had been raised, and the constant physical exercise, and in useful tasks,
and in games as a boy as a child, Juanita had made, though he had the holy ignorance or had lived
with the recollection that recommend and seek other mothers jealous I had not thought of yet
in matters of love.

Was sought, and requested not to woo a few young men, but brave and surly, he knew lay s, command
respect and hold off the more daring.

Only one was known from childhood tilt persisted in it with constancy,
but this inclination, at least for his part, rather than affection
had traces of brotherly love affection.

Who inspired, no doubt sharing less innocent style, was Antonuelo, master blacksmith's son and
nephew of the chief, who had in place very humble parentage.

Antonuelo was a gentle and robust fine fellow, very nice, but short-sighted
and determined for all, and particularly to admire Juanita, whom he
regarded and respected by subjecting it all his will and by virtue
of fascination or spells.

VI

Don Paco given its constant and different tasks, not or had not planned to marry a second time,
but never had an affair, or at least, if one had had had been so wonderful with caution, no one had
heard of it in Villalegre, what which is an extraordinary implausibility, because at that
place had just person, and less even if it was of such importance and sheen as Don Paco, I could
do or say anything not knowing.

Even the thoughts guessed there were disseminated and commented, as the thinker does not think
very openly and very inward. We therefore believe that Don Paco had not had affairs, not to be
very fleeting and lightweight, and that even during her long widowhood, had thought such a thing.

He,
however, remarkable fitness and skill to know and admire female beauty, and made months now,
almost without noticing it, and very unwillingly, when I was chatting
with the clerk and the pharmacist and other gentlemen on the benches
that were near the fountain, were fixed with loving eyes delight in
Juanita, still used to come to fill their jar and be there chatting
with other girls as they took their turn.

Undoubtedly, Don Paco had begun to feel inclined to live Juanita,
it was difficult to master, but he spent considerable time without
outward sign that the felt, longing perhaps hide from himself for
reasons he was given.

Founded in the very modesty that made him into a poor idea of ​​his person, was that fifty-three
years, thirty-six more than Juanita, could no longer love to girl, who or scorn their affection
or interest only move to correspond. Thought after Juanita, although in apparent freedom, was heavily
guarded by his mother, and mother and daughter lived with some relief,
it was assumed that, if he had intentions sinful loaning them, but
in any case would give in facie Ecclesiae and bringing the priest
to go.

The idea of ​​marriage to Don Paco terrified, and absolutely not because he hated being married
but because her daughter, Dona Ines, inspired him with an endearing affection, mingled with
terror, and because she was so compelling and brave, and would certainly be in a fury of the
underworld if his father give him stepmother, especially so mean position, and if seven grandchildren
she had given him, and I figured I could come yet she persisted in production approach, removing
the hope of inheriting the vineyard, olive grove and the house, and enjoy in his lifetime
not a little of what he was farm with his various arts.

Trembling Don Paco incurring the anger of her daughter, and although it mainly trembling anger, fear
did not stop their evil consequences.

Well he knew that there was no place in a person, or several together, they could replace him
successful in different jobs, but the world was not barren or devoid
of statesmen rustic, which could be sought and brought in from off-site
so that it will replace.

And it also knew that her daughter was a point less than omnipotent, because he had subjugated
two powers, temporal and spiritual.

Father Anselm was a saint and a doctor, and all it said was for him could not help it, a legitimate
corollary of the Gospels and the Epistles.

The father Anselmo would be able to excommunicate whom she commanded. And with regard to the
secular, Dona Ines was most evident that he was subject to his whims and all his crush weight to
who she wanted.

Don Paco, in this mood, reasonably motivated, although we do not deny that He was sweet, peaceful
and somewhat weak of character, imagination ahead in future cases and presupposes love with Juanita,
declared and accepted, I saw a crowd of evils angry heart out Dona Ines as new Pandora's box.

So
heavy in his mind these considerations that, noticing that his love was hidden growing, tried,
or rather intended to flee from the sight of Jane, do not pass down your street not to see
on the site or looking out the window, and not go to the gathering
of the sill, under poplars not have to admire it when talking with
others or with the lads zagalones the source of the ejido, or when
going up or down gracefully, with the pot resting on the hip Cuestecilla
by extending from the source to the site.

Despite his cautious withdrawal purposes, a force, apparently over his will sometimes led him
to jump ahead of Juanita's house more than was necessary, go to church
when he knew it was going to church with his mother or his devotions,
and go to the gathering of the sill almost every evening.

For Juanita, who had spent all day sewing and embroidering at home, was a pretext solace or walking
about at night going to the source water. His mother was in the position something lordly,
dignified and well off and figured it found, and addressed the development Juanita physicist,
who had come to transform into a gorgeous little boy and real girl, was not well and was given very
little tone going to the source water as the most plebeian pelafustana humble. But Jane was
amused by this exercise, and had an indomitable will. In the comments her mother made her
ears was a merchant, stroking her mother to overcome their opposition
and frustrate their disgust, and kept going to the source in spite
of all observations.

VII

One afternoon in May, Juanita entertained at the source in a long and lively conversation with
other girls.

Dark and filled up with her pitcher on the hill, which at that time I was alone.

The gathering of the sill used in spring and summer, take up the spirits,
time The pundits were leaving for dinner and bedtime.

One day Don Paco had been making efforts or, as it were, exercise
his will not to go to socialize and see Juanita. The struggle between
his will and inclination reasonable had lasted long enough. Finally,
the will was submitted, albeit late, to the gathering of sill the
whole person of Don Paco.

The sting happened was that by lowering
Juanita Don Paco go up, as stated above. When Helena led the way out by another door, I ran after Philip; and I asked
him to forgive me.

I don't know what I said; it was all confusion. The fear of having forfeited his fondness must,
I suppose, have shaken my mind. I remember entreating Helena to say a kind word for me. She
was so clever, she had behaved so well, she had deserved that Philip should listen to her.
"Oh," I cried out to him desperately, "what must you think of me?"

"I will tell you what I think of you," he said. "It is your father who is in fault, Eunice--not
you. Nothing could have been in worse taste than his management of that trumpery affair in
the schoolroom; it was a complete mistake from beginning to end. Make your mind easy; I don't
blame You."

"Are you, really and truly, as fond of me as ever?"

"Yes, to be sure!"

Helena seemed to be hardly as much interested in this happy ending of my anxieties as I might
have anticipated. She walked on by herself. Perhaps she was thinking of poor papa's strange
outbreak of excitement, and grieving over it.

We had only a little way to walk, before we passed the door of Philip's hotel. He had not yet
received the expected letter from his father--the cruel letter which might recall him to Ireland.
It was then the hour of delivery by our second post; he went to look at the letter-rack in
the hall. Helena saw that I was anxious. She was as kind again as ever; she consented to wait
with me for Philip, at the door.

He came out to us with an open letter in his hand.

"From my father, at last," he said--and gave me the letter to read. It only contained these
few lines:

"Do not be alarmed, my dear boy, at the change for the worse in my handwriting. I am suffering
for my devotion to the studious habits of a lifetime: my right hand is attacked by the malady
called Writer's Cramp. The doctor here can do nothing. He tells me of some foreign woman, mentioned
in his newspaper, who cures nervous derangements of all kinds by hand-rubbing, and who is coming
to London. When you next hear from me, I may be in London too."--There the letter ended.

Of course I knew who the foreign woman, mentioned in the newspaper, was.

But what does Miss Jillgall's friend matter to me? The one important thing is, that Philip
has not been called back to Ireland. Here is a fortunate circumstance, which perhaps means
more good luck. I may be Mrs. Philip Dunboyne before the year is out.

CHAPTER XXV. HELENA'S DIARY.

They all notice at home that I am looking worn and haggard. That hideous old maid, Miss Jillgall,
had her malicious welcome ready for me when we met at breakfast this morning: "Dear Helena,
what has become of your beauty? One would think you had left it in your room!" Poor deluded
Eunice showed her sisterly sympathy: "Don't joke about it, Selina: can't you see that Helena
is ill?"

I have been ill; ill of my own wickedness.

But the recovery to my tranquillity will bring with it the recovery of my good looks. My fatal
passion for Philip promises to be the utter destruction of everything that is good in me. Well!
what is good in me may not be worth keeping. There is a fate in these things. If I am destined
to rob Eunice of the one dear object of her love and hope--how can I resist? The one kind thing
I can do is to keep her in ignorance of what is coming, by acts of affectionate deceit.

Besides, if she suffers, I suffer too. In the length and breadth of England, I doubt if there
is a much more wicked young woman to be found than myself. Is it nothing to feel that, and
to endure it as I do?

Upon my word, there is no excuse for me!

Is this sheer impudence? No; it is the bent of my nature. I have a tendency to self-examination,
accompanied by one merit--I don't spare myself.

There are excuses for Eunice. She lives in a fools' paradise; and she sees in her lover a radiant
creature, shining in the halo thrown over him by her own self-delusion, Nothing of this sort
is to be said for me. I see Philip as he is. My penetration looks into the lowest depths of
his character--when I am not in his company. There seems to be a foundation of good, somewhere
in his nature. He despises and hates himself (he has confessed it to me), when Eunice is with
him--still believing in her false sweetheart. But how long do these better influences last?
I have only to show myself, in my sister's absence, and Philip is mine body and soul. His vanity
and his weakness take possession of him the moment he sees my face. He is one of those men--even
in my little experience I have met with them--who are born to be led by women. If Eunice had
possessed my strength of character, he would have been true to her for life.

Ought I not, in justice to myself, to have lifted my heart high above the reach of such a creature
as this? Certainly I ought! I know it, I feel it. And yet, there is some fascination in having
him which I am absolutely unable to resist.

What, I ask myself, has fed the new flame which is burning in me? Did it begin with gratified
pride? I might well feel proud when I found myself admired by a man of his beauty, set off
by such manners and such accomplishments as his. Or, has the growth of this masterful feeling
been encouraged by the envy and jealousy stirred in me, when I found Eunice (my inferior in
every respect) distinguished by the devotion of a handsome lover, and having a brilliant marriage
in view--while I was left neglected, with no prospect of changing my title from Miss to Mrs.?
Vain inquiries! My wicked heart seems to have secrets of its own, and to keep them a mystery to me.

What has become of my excellent education? I don't care to inquire; I have got beyond the reach
of good books and religious examples. Among my other blamable actions there may now be reckoned
disobedience to my father. I have been reading novels in secret.

At first I tried some of the famous English works, published at a price within the reach of
small purses. Very well written, no doubt--but with one unpardonable drawback, so far as I
am concerned. Our celebrated native authors address themselves to good people, or to penitent
people who want to be made good; not to wicked readers like me.

Arriving at this conclusion, I tried another experiment. In a small bookseller's shop I discovered
some cheap translations of French novels. Here, I found what I wanted--sympathy with sin. Here,
there was opened to me a new world inhabited entirely by unrepentant people; the magnificent
women diabolically beautiful; the satanic men dead to every sense of virtue, and alive--perhaps
rather dirtily alive--to the splendid fascinations of crime. I know now that Love is above
everything but itself. Love is the one law that we are bound to obey. How deep! how consoling!
how admirably true! The novelists of England have reason indeed to hide their heads before
the novelists of France. All that I have felt, and have written here, is inspired by these
wonderful authors.

I have relieved my mind, and may now return to the business of my diary--the record of domestic
events.

An overwhelming disappointment has fallen on Eunice. Our dinner-party has been put off.

The state of father's health is answerable for this change in our arrangements. That wretched
scene at the school, complicated by my sister's undutiful behavior at the time, so seriously
excited him that he passed a sleepless night, and kept his bedroom throughout the day. Eunice's
total want of discretion added, no doubt, to his sufferings: she rudely intruded on him to
express her regret and to ask his pardon. Having carried her point, she was at leisure to come
to me, and to ask (how amazingly simple of her!) what she and Philip were to do next.

"We had arranged it all so nicely," the poor wretch began. "Philip was to have been so clever
and agreeable at dinner, and was to have chosen his time so very discreetly, that papa would
have been ready to listen to anything he said. Oh, we should have succeeded; I haven't a doubt
of it! Our only hope, Helena, is in you. What are we to do now?"

"Wait," I answered.

"Wait?" she repeated, hotly. "Is my heart to be broken? and, what is more cruel still, is Philip
to be disappointed? I expected something more sensible, my dear, from you. What possible reason
can there be for waiting?"

The reason--if I could only have mentioned it--was beyond dispute. I wanted time to quiet Philip's
uneasy conscience, and to harden his weak mind against outbursts of violence, on Eunice's part,
which would certainly exhibit themselves when she found that she had lost her lover, and lost
him to me. In the meanwhile, I had to produce my reason for advising her to wait. It was easily
done. I reminded her of the irritable condition of our father's nerves, and gave it as my opinion
that he would certainly say No, if she was unwise enough to excite him on the subject of Philip,
in his present frame of mind.

These unanswerable considerations seemed to produce the right effect on her. "I suppose you
know best," was all she said. And then she left me.

I let her go without feeling any distrust of this act of submission on her part; it was such
a common experience, in my life, to find my sister guiding herself by my advice. But experience
is not always to be trusted. Events soon showed that I had failed to estimate Eunice's resources
of obstinacy and cunning at their true value.

Half an hour later I heard the street door closed, and looked out of the window. Miss Jillgall
was leaving the house; no one was with her. My dislike of this person led me astray once more.
I ought to have suspected her of being bent on some mischievous errand, and to have devised
some means of putting my suspicions to the test. I did nothing of the kind. In the moment when
I turned my head away from the window, Miss Jillgall was a person forgotten--and I was a person
who had made a serious mistake.

CHAPTER XXVI. HELENA'S DIARY.

The event of to-day began with the delivery of a message summoning me to my father's study.
He had decided--too hastily, as I feared--that he was sufficiently recovered to resume his
usual employments. I was writing to his dictation, when we were interrupted. Maria announced
a visit from Mr. Dunboyne.

Hitherto Philip had been content to send one of the servants of the hotel to make inquiry after
Mr. Gracedieu's health. Why had he now called personally? Noticing that father seemed to be
annoyed, I tried to make an opportunity of receiving Philip myself. "Let me see him," I suggested;
"I can easily say you are engaged."

Very unwillingly, as it was easy to see, my father declined to allow this. "Mr. Dunboyne's
visit pays me a compliment," he said; "and I must receive him." I made a show of leaving the
room, and was called back to my chair. "This is not a private interview, Helena; stay where
you are."

Philip came in--handsomer than ever, beautifully dressed--and paid his respects to my father
with his customary grace. He was too well-bred to allow any visible signs of embarrassment
to escape him. But when he shook hands with me, I felt a little trembling in his fingers, through
the delicate gloves which fitted him like a second skin. Was it the true object of his visit
to try the experiment designed by Eunice and himself, and deferred by the postponement of our
dinner-party? Impossible surely that my sister could have practiced on his weakness, and persuaded
him to return to his first love! I waited, in breathless interest, for his next words. They
were not worth listening to. Oh, the poor commonplace creature!

"I am glad, Mr. Gracedieu, to see that you are well enough to be in your study again," he said.
The writing materials on the table attracted his attention. "Am I one of the idle people,"
he asked, with his charming smile, "who are always interrupting useful employment?"

He spoke to my father, and he was answered by my father. Not once had he addressed a word to
me--no, not even when we shook hands. I was angry enough to force him into taking some notice
of me, and to make an attempt to confuse him at the same time.

"Have you seen my sister?" I asked.

"No."

It was the shortest reply that he could choose. Having flung it at me, he still persisted in
looking at my father and speaking to my father: "Do you think of trying change of air, Mr.
Gracedieu, when you feel strong enough to travel?"

"My duties keep me here," father answered; "and I cannot honestly say that I enjoy traveling.
I dislike manners and customs that are strange to me; I don't find that hotels reward me for
giving up the comforts of my own house. How do you find the hotel here?"

"I submit to the hotel, sir. They are sad savages in the kitchen; they put mushroom ketchup
into their soup, and mustard and cayenne pepper into their salads. I am half-starved at dinner-time,
but I don't complain."

Every word he said was an offense to me. With or without reason, I attacked him again.

"I have heard you acknowledge that the landlord and landlady are very obliging people," I said.
"Why don't you ask them to let you make your own soup and mix your own salad?"

I wondered whether I should succeed in attracting his notice, after this. Even in these private
pages, my self-esteem finds it hard to confess what happened. I succeeded in reminding Philip
that he had his reasons for requesting me to leave the room.

"Will you excuse me, Miss Helena," he said, "if I ask leave to speak to Mr. Gracedieu in private?"

The right thing for me to do was, let me hope, the thing that I did. I rose, and waited to
see if my father would interfere. He looked at Philip with suspicion in his face, as well as
surprise. "May I ask," he said, coldly, "what is the object of the interview?"

"Certainly," Philip answered, "when we are alone." This cool reply placed my father between
two alternatives; he must either give way, or be guilty of an act of rudeness to a guest in
his own house. The choice reserved for me was narrower still--I had to decide between being
told to go, or going of my own accord. Of course, I left them together.

The door which communicated with the next room was pulled to, but not closed. On the other
side of it, I found Eunice.

"Listening!" I said, in a whisper.

"Yes," she whispered back. "You listen, too!" Sought placate
anger in some moments, but all in vain; threatened he would do understand to their opponents
what they deserve who grieves the monarch of Castile, and that would show how great was his
strength against him angry. Nor were enough to appease his anger the pleas of his brother
D. Pedro de Acuña, Count of Buendia, who protested not terribly irritated, maybe a forged news,
as could be, was the reason the scorn and curses that went without distinction of relatives and
friends. Only at warnings of a personage was silent out of respect, was giving place to the King
D. Fernando. This character was known granger his love for his beautiful quality, which was
around flattering, making his words the monarch chest replenish each day more passion. Even Queen
Elizabeth it had on many occasions to rely on this favorite to talk with her royal husband.

These
events occurred in the imperial palace of Toledo, when she gave birth to Queen Elizabeth II
on November 6, 1479, the Princess Juana of Castile, much like her
grandmother Dona Juana, wife of D. John III of Aragon, says the author
of the Catholic Queens.

The name of Doña Juana is one of the monarchs that have long figured
more in Spain ahead of the actual documents and orders, and yet we
can say that rarely, or rather in neither party had a taste for the
work that gave him its high large hierarchy.

 "You are a minister of religion, and you
are an old man. Two privileges--and you presume on them both. Good-morning."

I drew back into a corner, just in time to escape discovery in the character of a listener.
Eunice never moved. When Philip dashed into the room, banging the door after him, she threw
herself impulsively on his breast: "Oh, Philip! Philip! what have you done? Why didn't you
keep your temper?"

"Did you hear what your father said to me?" he asked.

"Yes, dear; but you ought to have controlled yourself--you ought, indeed, for my sake."

Her arms were still round him. It struck me that he felt her influence. "If you wish me to
recover myself," he said, gently, "you had better let me go."

"Oh, how cruel, Philip, to leave me when I am so wretched! Why do you want to go?"

"You told me just now what I ought to do," he answered, still restraining himself. "If I am
to get the better of my temper, I must be left alone."

"I never said anything about your temper, darling."

"Didn't you tell me to control myself?"

"Oh, yes! Go back to Papa, and beg him to forgive you."

"I'll see him damned first!"

If ever a stupid girl deserved such an answer as this, the girl was my sister. I had hitherto
(with some difficulty) refrained from interfering. But when Eunice tried to follow Philip out
of the house, I could hesitate no longer; I held her back. "You fool," I said; "haven't you
made mischief enough already?"

"What am I to do?" she burst out, helplessly.

"Do what I told you to do yesterday--wait."

Before she could reply, or I could say anything more, the door that led to the landing was
opened softly and slyly, and Miss Jillgall peeped in. Eunice instantly left me, and ran to
the meddling old maid. They whispered to each other. Miss Jillgall's skinny arm encircled my
sister's waist; they disappeared together.

I was only too glad to get rid of them both, and to take the opportunity of writing to Philip.
I insisted on an explanation of his conduct while I was in the study--to be given within an
hour's time, at a place which I appointed. "You are not to attempt to justify yourself in writing,"
I added in conclusion. "Let your reply merely inform me if you can keep the appointment. The
rest, when we meet."

Maria took the letter to the hotel, with instructions to wait.

Philip's reply reached me without delay. It pledged him to justify himself as I had desired,
and to keep the appointment. My own belief is that the event of to-day will decide his future
and mine.

CHAPTER XXVII. EUNICE'S DIARY.

Indeed, I am a most unfortunate creature; everything turns out badly with me. My good, true
friend, my dear Selina, has become the object of a hateful doubt in my secret mind. I am afraid
she is keeping something from me.

Talking with her about my troubles, I heard for the first time that she had written again to
Mrs. Tenbruggen. The object of her letter was to tell her friend of my engagement to young
Mr. Dunboyne. I asked her why she had done this. The answer informed me that there was no knowing,
in the present state of my affairs, how soon I might not want the help of a clever woman. I
ought, I suppose, to have been satisfied with this. But there seemed to be something not fully
explained yet.

Then again, after telling Selina what I heard in the study, and how roughly Philip had spoken
to me afterward, I asked her what she thought of it. She made an incomprehensible reply: "My
sweet child, I mustn't think of it--I am too fond of you."

It was impossible to make her explain what this meant. She began to talk of Philip; assuring
me (which was quite needless) that she had done her best to fortify and encourage him, before
he called on papa. When I asked her to help me in another way--that is to say, when I wanted
to find out where Philip was at that moment--she had no advice to give me. I told her that
I should not enjoy a moment's ease of mind until I and my dear one were reconciled. She only
shook her head and declared that she was sorry for me. When I hit on the idea of ringing for
Maria, this little woman, so bright, and quick and eager to help me at other times, said "I
leave it to you, dear," and turned to the piano (close to which I was sitting), and played
softly and badly stupid little tunes.

"Maria, did you open the door for Mr. Dunboyne when he went away just now?"

"No, miss."

Nothing but ill-luck for me! If I had been left to my own devices, I should now have let the
housemaid go. But Selina contrived to give me a hint, on a strange plan of her own. Still at
the piano, she began to confuse talking to herself with playing to herself. The notes went
tinkle, tinkle--and the tongue mixed up words with the notes in this way: "Perhaps they have
been talking in the kitchen about Philip?"

The suggestion was not lost on me. I said to Maria--who was standing at the other end of the
room, near the door--"Did you happen to hear which way Mr. Dunboyne went when he left us?"

"I know where he was, miss, half an hour ago."

"Where was he?"

"At the hotel."

Selina went on with her hints in the same way as before. "How does she know--ah, how does she
know?" was the vocal part of the performance this time. My clever inquiries followed the vocal
part as before:

"How do you know that Mr. Dunboyne was at the hotel?"

"I was sent there with a letter for him, and waited for the answer."

There was no suggestion required this time. The one possible question was: "Who sent you?"

Maria replied, after first reserving a condition: "You won't tell upon me, miss?"

I promised not to tell. Selina suddenly left off playing.

"Well," I repeated, "who sent you?"

"Miss Helena."

Selina looked round at me. Her little eyes seemed to have suddenly become big, they stared
me so strangely in the face. I don't know whether she was in a state of fright or of wonder.
As for myself, I simply lost the use of my tongue. Maria, having no more questions to answer,
discreetly left us together.

Why should Helena write to Philip at all--and especially without mentioning it to me? Here
was a riddle which was more than I could guess. I asked Selina to help me. She might at least
have tried, I thought; but she looked uneasy, and made excuses.

I said: "Suppose I go to Helena, and ask her why she wrote to Philip?" And Selina said: "Suppose
you do, dear."

I rang for Maria once more: "Do you know where my sister is?"

"Just gone out, miss."

There was no help for it but to wait till she came back, and to get through the time in the
interval as I best might. But for one circumstance, I might not have known what to do. The
truth is, there was a feeling of shame in me when I remembered having listened at the study
door. Curious notions come into one's head--one doesn't know how or why. It struck me that
I might make a kind of atonement for having been mean enough to listen, if I went to papa,
and offered to keep him company in his solitude. If we fell into pleasant talk, I had a sly
idea of my own--I meant to put in a good word for poor Philip.

When I confided my design to Selina, she shut up the piano and ran across the room to me. But
somehow she was not like her old self again, yet.

"You good little soul, you are always right. Look at me again, Euneece. Are you beginning to
doubt me? Oh, my darling, don't do that! It isn't using me fairly. I can't bear it--I can't
bear it!"

I took her hand; I was on the point of speaking to her with the kindness she deserved from
me. On a sudden she snatched her hand away and ran back to the piano. When she was seated on
the music-stool, her face was hidden from me. At that moment she broke into a strange cry--it
began like a laugh, and it ended like a sob.

"Go away to papa! Don't mind me--I'm a creature of impulse--ha! ha! ha! a little hysterical--the
state of the weather--I get rid of these weaknesses, my dear, by singing to myself. I have
a favorite song: 'My heart is light, my will is free.'--Go away! oh, for God's sake, go away!"

I had heard of hysterics, of course; knowing nothing about them, however, by my own experience.
What could have happened to agitate her in this extraordinary manner?

Had Helena's letter anything to do with it? Was my sister indignant with Philip for swearing
in my presence; and had she written him an angry letter, in her zeal on my behalf? But Selina
could not possibly have seen the letter--and Helena (who is often hard on me when I do stupid
things) showed little indulgence for me, when I was so unfortunate as to irritate Philip. I
gave up the hopeless attempt to get at the truth by guessing, and went away to forget my troubles,
if I could, in my father's society.

After knocking twice at the door of the study, and receiving no reply, I ventured to look in.

The sofa in this room stood opposite the door. Papa was resting on it, but not in comfort.
There were twitching movements in his feet, and he shifted his arms this way and that as if
no restful posture could he found for them. But what frightened me was this. His eyes, staring
straight at the door by which I had gone in, had an inquiring expression, as if he actually
did not know me! I stood midway between the door and the sofa, doubtful about going nearer to him.

He said: "Who is it?" This to me--to his own daughter. He said: "What do you want?"

I really could not bear it. I went up to him. I said: "Papa, have you forgotten Eunice?"

My name seemed (if one may say such a thing) to bring him to himself again. He sat upon the
sofa--and laughed as he answered me.

"My dear child, what delusion has got into that pretty little head of yours? Fancy her thinking
that I had forgotten my own daughter! I was lost in thought, Eunice. For the moment, I was
what they call an absent man. Did I ever tell you the story of the absent man? He went to call
upon some acquaintance of his; and when the servant said, 'What name, sir?' He couldn't answer.
He was obliged to confess that he had forgotten his own name. The servant said, 'That's very
strange.' The absent man at once recovered himself. 'That's it!' he said: 'my name is Strange.'
Droll, isn't it? If I had been calling on a friend to-day, I daresay I might have forgotten
my name, too. Much to think of, Eunice--too much to think of."

Leaving the sofa with a sigh, as if he was tired of it, he began walking up and down. He seemed
to be still in good spirits. "Well, my dear," he said, "what can I do for you?"

"I came here, papa to see if there was anything I could do for You."

He looked at some sheets of paper, strung together, and laid on the table. 

One day Julia told him point blank:

- When do you plan to get married, Miguel?

Blushed, and answered hesitantly and confusing:

- Oh, the marriage! ... You have to think calmly .... It is a very serious business.

And suddenly cut the conversation, talking about something else.

Julia was sad and pensive.

Asked this question because he had observed that his brother often
both letters a Passages like before.

Began to suspect that it was tired, and trembled for the poor Maximina.

Do not give up, however.

After a few days he took in his room by the ear, and said, half joking,
half in earnest:

- Do not loose if you do not tell me now if you
think or not to marry.

- But, girl, you thought you or you come with
that? - Said the young man, laughing.

- I have interest in Maxi,
because he is my friend.

- If you do not know!

- Never mind, I want
it now as if he knew.

- Would like to be the sister-niece of a tobacconist?
- Said young with malice.

- Yes! - Julia said getting serious .--
If it is good, well-educated, why not?

...

- Do not think that's why I stop - Miguel said, turning serious .--
I also thought a lot in recent months about this matter, and finally
I could not confess under married to no good.

The Commission has done twenty-seven independent living I, it is very difficult to accommodate the
order, peace, a series of sacrifices Marriage requires ... And, frankly, to be a bad married,
is not worth a stay single life? ... On the other hand, if I marry this girl, who is not used
treatment of people or has ever entered in any society, and understand that I must resign in
all my relationships and old friends of my family, I do not want to step on a room where my
wife does not make good role ... In addition, Maximina is too young and too innocent to subdue
a man so perverted like me, and to govern a family ...

This continued the son of Brigadier in your brain rummaging arguments to hide the true mobile behavior,
they were boredom and vanity, filthy passions that court life had
awakened in his heart again.

Julia did not take his eyes searching for him which concluded by mobs and forced to shut. After a
few moments of silence, it said, shaking his head in pain:

- Poor Maximina!

And after a long pause, said with energy:

- Well, look, Miguel, if
you must marry her, is a great sin that you are cheating.

You cut these relations as soon as possible.

- Well, that'll talk ... Perhaps you're right ... Until then - said
putting on his hat and giving her a kiss goodbye.

As much as it hurts to speak ill of the hero of our story, the truth compels us to confess Miguel
had the cowardice to sever its relations with the girl leaving to write tickets. After a fortnight,
his sister showed him a letter he had received from her, is was aware of the lack of love
for her boyfriend, without uttering a complaint, apologized saying his behavior that after the separation
had thought that she could not agree a man like Michael, would have liked, however, that it
would have told you before having it wait and sad many days finally ended by saying that his aunt
had gotten permission to become a nun of charity.

This letter, where the through firmness and naturalness of the concepts, a hand gauge trembling
and his eyes clouded with tears, deeply moved by our hero, and he had moved further to the
point perhaps to leave that same day Passages Maximina apologize to and make her his wife,
if unfortunately it was not a critical day and terrible existence.

The newspaper of the Earl of Rivers held frequent disputes with other conservative daily titled The
Monarchy. These controversies, somewhat rough, not so far had exceeded the boundaries courtesy
of a more or less ambiguous. At one point, however, that discussion was souring in terms that
appeared in the Daily moderate some veiled insults against the inspiration and the editors
of Independence. Miguel was tried in the case of writing an article by answering these injuries,
it was a true prodigy of skill: devolvíanse more than all those of the enemy, but in a way so fine
and well concealed that it was impossible seek redress in the courts, and it was not easy either to
find grounds for a duel. The article was read in the writing and was warmly applauded. Unfortunately,
this time Mendoza was when he came to discover all the secret that her friend had stored for years.
To bring the evidence in the article, is authorized without consulting anyone change one of
its paragraphs getting another homegrown. By virtue of this unfortunate occurrence, what was
an incisive and thoughtful words, became rude and vicious insult. In As Miguel, reading the morning
newspaper, learned of the change, revolviósele bile, realizing that he could not produce fatal
consequences, was the drafting, and not finding Mendoza began to speak in front of their peers
what we have already seen in another chapter.

All his calculations were confirmed.

Not many hours passed without two gentlemen, The principal sponsors of the monarchy should
come to demand satisfaction of Independence personal. Mendoza, pale and trembling, replied that
he was not the author of the article, and promised that the next day's number would make a
correction. There are many who will pass word to Riverita, who hastily turned to writing, before
it had out these gentlemen. So it came, broke what had been agreed, said it was him the letter,
objected to publish any correction, and named by sponsors to Count Rivers and a fellow named
Meredith. Then he returned home, and that was when he showed Julita Maxi's letter.

The sponsors of the contenders took a whole day and used all the saliva
of throats to discuss the terms of the challenge.

The most difficult was the choice weapons. The Earl of Rivers, on the grounds that the sponsored
person was challenged, he believed he had right to choose them, and argued with great heat.
In fact, a strong emphasis on the subject, because it was knowing that the reporter thought moderate
choose the sword, not because you handle with great skill, but because, given its height and
bulk, should take advantage of the adversary. The godparents of the same tenacity that defended
their right, as the victim. At ten of the night had not yet been fixed. In one of his interviews with
Rios, Miguel, tired the end of such delay, asked him to accept any conditions it wanted to
put the contrary.

Under this, it was agreed that the match will be a sword pointed. Hour, seven am; site, Vistalegre
fifth in Carabanchel.

It was not home at night, passed word to his stepmother, warning that should ensure a friend sick
so that she and Julia were with care. Did not leave the casino, where he spent all afternoon
waiting for the outcome of the discussion of the sponsors. Up to two played in the morning
sitting, when the game broke up, he was walking a long time by one of the rooms; tired at the
end, he lay on a couch, and soon many minutes set it on a heavy sleeper and lethargic. The strain
on his nerves had been the last hours, was finished by a enervation. Slept half an hour, and during
it, dreamed a thousand absurdities: was now in a huge deserted palace, where some shade, which
was crossed, caused a strange terror that had never felt, now would break into a church with a
man he never met, and that turned out to be D. Valentine's uncle, Maxi, which, without knowing
how it turned into a cat and threw on him, clawed his neck: it turned out at sea, floating
like a buoy, at the mercy of the waves, without hope no one came to his rescue.

- Miss, Miss ...

- Hey!

What's up? - Said rubbing his eyes.

- Let's shut down.

- Well ... Do you know V. if you are in the playroom Mr. Meredith?

- I think so, sir.

He went over there and found her friend making good money.

At his entrance, he Merelo smiled happy and expansive, well clearly
understood at that moment no much care that Michael was going to kill.

In earnings was still a long time, until you see signs that luck
is twisted, got up and left as a skilled player the room hugging his
friend.

- What time is it, Miguelillo?

- The quarter to five.

-
Is there a mood, right? - Asked hugging him back warmly.

- Yeah,
man, yeah!

I have a mind and your money - said with a smile.

- Want to go to Dona Mariquita make chocolate?

- Come on.

While taking breakfast, Meredith, more and more joyful and loving,
he spoke of many things with amazing clarity, but especially fencing.

Actually this was the conversation that Then came the case, and understanding and gave him a
multitude of tips aimed all not to be hit by the head of the monarchy, but rather, from the average
the first time.

- No fakes, you see ... The blows should be rapid and decisive ... Him to let him Finte whatever
you want ... You still, serene, plumb ... to stop and answer anything else ... And fall in any
response. Well not to fall!

Miguel absentmindedly dipped in chocolate cake thinking God knows what. Close and of the six
left the establishment and straightened up the steps to Queen Street,
General Rios where he lived.

It was still pitch dark. When they arrived they saw the car at the door waiting and its owner.
Earl passed a message by the servant and not long in coming wrapped in a fur coat, the servant
came back with the Sabres. After greeting affectionately, rose into the carriage, and he started
rolling through the silent streets with harsh rattle.

When they came through the door of Toledo, starting at daybreak. Upon reaching Carabanchel it
was already clear. During the trip, the general and Meredith did not stop to talk politics.
The clear morning. To alight near the royal possession, was very cold: the trees, naked, had
their frame covered with frost. For the coach who saw the door, they realized their opponents had already
arrived, and went looking for them through the beautiful gardens the wealthy banker. Long before
reaching the designated spot, saw their black figures highlighting on the white carpet of frost.
Miguel, who until then had shown signs of being anxious and nervous, was suddenly calm, from
then until the end said a complete set of strange serenity that made highly pleased with their sponsors.
They greeted the opponents and the doctor, who should serve as the two contenders it was agreed:
Michael and moderate journalist made a slight inclination away head. Escogiose the ground,
which was a sand road better sheltered than the other by two high hedges of roses; midiéronse
sabers; despojáronse adversaries overcoats and Levites, remaining
with the vest, for the sake of the cold; colocóseles into place sword
in hand: at last, the Earl of Rivers, as the most respected person
there he was placed in the middle, arms extended with fingers taking
the tips of the two swords and walked away saying with strong intonation:

-
Gentlemen, meet VV. their duty.

The director of the monarchy was a sturdy strapping young man, thirty-four a thirty-six years
old, whose face was sad contrast on this occasion with the delicate and smallest of Rivera.
However, a few moments he realized it was not the shooter had a accompli. Miguel had thrown a few
seasons saber and foil: his opponent did not know apparently more than this ultimate weapon, it
had to be warned by the sponsors do not get up the left hand, and then place it behind your back.
But all this made him very dangerous, because instead of using the cutting edge, stretched at
every moment the tip of the blade, keeping Miguel was away. This began attacking vigorously
pulling the single hits arm, head and shoulder, his opponent, instead of stopping them, most often
broken stretching the point: in this way, three minutes into the fight became a messy assault foil. However,
the royalist journalist unwittingly threw a blow to the head; but had to be costly, because Michael
got up and answered so quickly, if not breaks time you slit your face. Since then he threw
more cuts. The fight lasted about fifteen minutes without result. Miguel, who was attacking, he
was fatigadísimo, therefore, that the did this out loud, and sponsors forced them to stay and
gave them ten minutes rest. During that time, Michael wore the coat and went to smoke a cigarette
on a bench as calmly, in appearance, actually quite irritated by this strange procedure its opposite.
Again started the fight, did not work either in quite some time, despite the fact that Miguel, increasingly
impatient, attacked furiously beating his sword to strike of his adversary, but it had iron fist,
and barely managed to tip away a moment. Eight or ten minutes to feel tired again, but dared
not declare shame. Loosened in the attack, making it increasingly weak and disorganized. Noticed
the contrary, it began to throw frequent thrusts: hardly had the strength to stop them. After the robust
reporter I broke the sword with theirs by force, and plunged the tip into the chest.

Miguel fell dropping a heavy blood flow. Everyone rushed to his aid.

The director of The Monarchy stammered a few words expressing his feelings, to which the injured could
not answer. The doctor made the first treatment and continuing act was transferred to the car,
that led to that company and their sponsors home.

XVII

The doctor's prognosis was reserved at first.

After twenty-four hours said his condition was serious but not desperate.

Julia had suffered several nervous breakdowns in the course of that day, in view of its dying
brother had caused deep and terrible impression: no human force to make him swallow any food
or medicine. The shock of his mother was also great, but trasformose sudden and harsh living
irritation, which fell victim to the sponsors, the doctor, the servants, and even the so Miguel
was found in a state of suffering, the brigadiera great concern was not that it be cured,
but knowing who had the blame for the misfortune was so intemperate and unrestrained, the Earl
of Rivers never set foot over the house, merely to ask every day by a servant the patient's
condition.

Fortunately, the danger came suddenly, after five days and was allowed to talk, but not much. Julia
never left his bedside. The mother was charged with receiving numerous visitors who came, and
certainly not tired of telling everyone the details of the disaster.

One afternoon, Julia was, as usual, sewing the bedside of the sick,
the which he slept.

- Listen, Julia - .-- waking suddenly said you
do me a favor?

- What?

- Read me the letter again ..... Maximina
The day that I was not to learn anything .....

Julia smiled with
an air of triumph.

In fact, for days he watched his brother some predisposition to melancholy
quite alien to his character often spend hours Eye static, motionless,
showing signs of being ambushed in a tangle of thoughts sad, annoyed
the company of friends and even came to dislike her sister I read
too long .-- Miguel Maximina think - you said it to him so thoughtful.

What is the mystery of love will escape a young seventeen years?
- Well, a little penis; and wheezing.

And so, as I thought the little girl.

- I look - answered hastily out of the bedroom.

Soon came to her in the hand, sat back and began to read it with great
calm, looking askance at the wounded.

At the end, he had moist eyes, staring at the ceiling and said:

- Poor child!

Julia put the letter on his chest, picked up sewing again and began to move the needle in silence.
After several minutes the patient again said:

- I will ask another favor ...

- Whatever you want ...

Take the
keys from my desk, they are there in the vest, opens the second drawer
left and pulls out a silver crucifix in it ... and bring it.

- Is
here - said she had appeared a few moments, hanging on a piece of
string.

- This crucifix - said something blushing - Maxi gave me
when we parted: I broke cord, and hoping to buy another, I kept it
on the desktop.

- I have me one, do not need to buy it - said the
girl turning to leave the room and entering again instantly with a
blue cordoncito.

And without further ado took the crucifix from his hands Miguel, took out the old cord, put
the new and said casually:

- Do you want to hang it?

- Well - said Miguel getting red again.

At the time of crash, Julita his mouth to his ear and said graciously:

- If you had always brought, they would not have hurt.

And without waiting for an answer came bouncing. When he was in the hall, stood still suddenly,
thought for a moment, and in his face a smile of pleasure, he ran to his room and immediately started
writing continued.

The truth is that in the days that followed this scene, Julita said
worthy of plenipotentiary of the first order.

Few diplomats have been conducted with such skill.

He did not speak to his brother Maximina: but let him spend time alone, and when he was beside
him stood still and silent, waiting to reason that the thought of injured carry out his task,
and better alone than with help from anyone. From time to time, giving long detours, which made her
laugh, Miguel took out the tickets and chat Maximina telling for the hundredth time every
episode of their innocent love. She listened attentive, encouraged him to follow, but pocketing the
questions asked him about his plans.

This tactic seemed to excite more and more talkative of the patient, and even be warned in he wishes
to communicate certain something of more significance, but such desires could be seen contained
the reserve and the silence of Julia.

One morning, finally it came and sat down earlier than usual at his bedside. If Miguel had noticed
her, might have warned his restless little eyes and black glow singular
and in his hands some unusual tremor, but was so absorbed in his thoughts
and habitual melancholy, nothing found.

- Dime, Michael - said the
young woman lifting her head resolutely, - what will you do when you
get up?

- When I woke up ...?

What do you mean surprised ?..-- said.

- Yes, what will you do in your life?

- What do I know, girl? ... The usual.

There was a pause. Miguel hoped that his sister be given more thought: seeing that he did not,
he decided to speak.

- The truth is, Julia, I've thought a lot in these days about my situation, not I find it so
promising as at first sight. You and Mom you constitute today my only family. With other relatives
do not count for anything. You will marry, of course. Mom ... you know how has genius, life at
her side can not be happy. On the other hand, I'm doing old (Julia laughter). Do not laugh, but
outside I do not feel old, inside need and serenity, comfort, life
catering horrifies me.

You can not imagine the compassion I am inspired by those old men
who go shooting alone at the boarding house ... which are made sick
and have to call a sister of charity ... that upon reaching the street
can not provide feedback sad or leisure with a loved one ... that
desire or without are forced to go out every night, because they throw
the room alone ... It's horrible!

- Well, all that means you want
to marry - said Julia with a grin.

- I did not say such a thing -
said embarrassed, and then recovering, said: - But if I had said what?

... Is there something particular?

- Nothing, man, nothing, on the contrary, I have always believed that
you should marry.

- But with whom? - Asked the young man in a tone
of anguish.

- With the girl that you like ... if you want.

- That's
the question ... I do not like any.

- Neither of flights either?

Miguel was troubled even more, and said in halting words:

- What
a naughty you!

Maximina I liked.

The truth is that it would be a good wife ...

- "Well why do not you marry her?

- Do you think ...?-- asked him a shy, wistful look.

- Go! I would be glad very much.

I think it's the only woman for you.

- Oh, Julia! - Vehemently exclaimed incorporated a bit .-- What pleasure you have given me.
Ago a lot of days I do not think of anything else.

- I knew ... But do me a favor taparte, because if you die there is
no wedding and I want to eat sweets at all costs.

Michael directed a smile of recognition. There was another pause.

He thought and looked two or three times glanced at her sister, as
if not daring to express what crossed through his mind.

At last she ventured:

- I have yet to ask another favor, Julita.

-
I know what it is: to write to Maximina, right?

- What a talent so
prodigious!

You do not seem sister of an editor of La Independencia ... Write,
yes, because I, God knows when I will take up the pen.

- What did
you say?

- Whatever you want.

- Well, you say you love her very
much and want to marry her to escape.

- That, and that is more beautiful
than the Virgin of Carmen!

- Shut up, gross.

I now, lest you turn back.

He left the room, not spent two minutes without hear her scream from the doorway:

- I've written, Miguel. Here is the reply.

He looked up and saw the same Maximina, who pushed Julia to bed. Was hovering behind the face
of the man-fish, or D. Valentine, the former captain of the Fast,
who did everything effort to hide behind the youth.

He thought I was dreaming, so she painted terror in his eyes, which
stopped in the middle Maximina cabinet.

- Come on, fool, do not make
that face, that scared! - Julita said.

Then flashed a spark of joy in the eyes of the young.

Maximina, redder than a cherry, took a few steps and asked with a
trembling voice:

- How is V., Miguel?

- In the seventh heaven to
the Father's right!

She stopped, and eyed me with a wicked smile; she held out her hand. "We are likely to meet
often, while we are in the same house," she said; "hadn't we better consult appearances, and
pretend to be as fond of each other as ever?"

I took no notice of her hand; I took no notice of her shameless proposal. She tried again:
"After all, it isn't my fault if Philip likes me better than he likes you. Don't you see that?"
I still refused to speak to her. She still persisted. "How black you look, Eunice! Are you
sorry you didn't kill me, when you had your hands on my throat?"

I said: "Yes."

She laughed, and left me. I was obliged to sit down on the stair--I trembled so. My own reply
frightened me. I tried to find out why I had said Yes. I don't remember being conscious of
meaning anything. It was as if somebody else had said Yes--not I. Perhaps I was provoked, and
the word escaped me before I could stop it. Could I have stopped it? I don't know.

.......

Another sleepless night.

Did I pass the miserable hours in writing letters to Philip and then tearing them up? Or did
I only fancy that I wrote to him? I have just looked at the fireplace. The torn paper in it
tells me that I did write. Why did I destroy my letters? I might have sent one of them to Philip.
After what has happened? Oh, no! no!

Having been many days away from the Girls' Scripture Class, it seemed to be possible that going
back to the school and the teaching might help me to escape from myself.

Nothing succeeds with me. I found it impossible to instruct the girls as usual; their stupidity
soon reached the limit of my patience--suffocated me with rage. One of them, a poor, fat, feeble
creature, began to cry when I scolded her. I looked with envy at the tears rolling over her
big round cheeks. If I could only cry, I might perhaps bear my hard fate with submission.

I walked toward home by a roundabout way; feeling as if want of sleep was killing me by inches.

In the High Street, I saw Helena; she was posting a letter, and was not aware that I was near
her. Leaving the post-office, she crossed the street, and narrowly escaped being run over.
Suppose the threatened accident had really taken place--how should I have felt, if it had ended
fatally? What a fool I am to be putting questions to myself about things that have not happened!

The walking tired me; I went straight home.

Before I could ring the bell, the house door opened, and the doctor came out. He stopped to
speak to me. While I had been away (he said), something had happened at home (he neither knew
nor wished to know what) which had thrown my father into a state of violent agitation. The
doctor had administered composing medicine. "My patient is asleep now," he told me; "but remember
what I said to you the last time we met; a longer rest than any doctor's prescription can give
him is what he wants. You are not looking well yourself, my dear. What is the matter?"

I told him of my wretched restless nights; and asked if I might take some of the composing
medicine which he had given to my father. He forbade me to touch a drop of it. "What is physic
for your father, you foolish child, is not physic for a young creature like you," he said.
"Count a thousand, if you can't sleep to-night, or turn your pillow. I wish you pleasant dreams."
He went away, amused at his own humor.

I found Selina waiting to speak with me, on the subject of poor papa.

She had been startled on hearing his voice, loud in anger. In the fear that something serious
had happened, she left her room to make inquiries, and saw Helena on the landing of the flight
of stairs beneath, leaving the study. After waiting till my sister was out of the way, Selina
ventured to present herself at the study door, and to ask if she could be of any use. My father,
walking excitedly up and down the room, declared that both his daughters had behaved infamously,
and that he would not suffer them to speak to him again until they had come to their senses,
on the subject of Mr. Dunboyne. He would enter into no further explanation; and he had ordered,
rather than requested, Selina to leave him. Having obeyed, she tried next to find me, and had
just looked into the dining-room to see if I was there, when she was frightened by the sound
of a fall in the room above--that is to say, in the study. Running upstairs again, she had
found him insensible on the floor and had sent for the doctor.

"And mind this," Selina continued, "the person who has done the mischief is the person whom
I saw leaving the study. What your unnatural sister said to provoke her father--"

"That your unnatural sister will tell you herself," Helena's voice added. She had opened the
door while we were too much absorbed in our talk to hear her.

Selina attempted to leave the room. I caught her by the hand, and held her back. I was afraid
of what I might do if she left me by myself. Never have I felt anything like the rage that
tortured me, when I saw Helena looking at us with the same wicked smile on her lips that had
insulted me when we met on the stairs. "Have we anything to be ashamed of?" I said to Selina.
"Stay where you are."

"You may be of some use, Miss Jillgall, if you stay," my sister suggested. "Eunice seems to
be trembling. Is she angry, or is she ill?"

The sting of this was in the tone of her voice. It was the hardest thing I ever had to do in
my life--but I did succeed in controlling myself.

"Go on with what you have to say," I answered, "and don't notice me."

"You are not very polite, my dear, but I can make allowances. Oh, come! come! putting up your
hands to stop your ears is too childish. You would do better to express regret for having misled
your father. Yes! you did mislead him. Only a few days since, you left him to suppose that
you were engaged to Philip. It became my duty, after that, to open his eyes to the truth; and
if I unhappily provoked him, it was your fault. I was strictly careful in the language I used.
I said: 'Dear father, you have been misinformed on a very serious subject. The only marriage
engagement for which your kind sanction is requested, is my engagement. I have consented to
become Mrs. Philip Dunboyne.'"

"Stop!" I said.

"Why am I to stop?"

"Because I have something to say. You and I are looking at each other. Does my face tell you
what is passing in my mind?"

"Your face seems to be paler than usual," she answered--"that's all."

"No," I said; "that is not all. The devil that possessed me, when I discovered you with Philip,
is not cast out of me yet. Silence the sneering devil that is in You, or we may both live to
regret it."

Whether I did or did not frighten her, I cannot say. This only I know--she turned away silently
to the door, and went out.

I dropped on the sofa. That horrid hungering for revenge, which I felt for the first time when
I knew how Helena had wronged me, began to degrade and tempt me again. In the effort to get
away from this new evil self of mine, I tried to find sympathy in Selina, and called to her
to come and sit by me. She seemed to be startled when I looked at her, but she recovered herself,
and came to me, and took my hand.

"I wish I could comfort you!" she said, in her kind simple way.

"Keep my hand in your hand," I told her; "I am drowning in dark water--and I have nothing to
hold by but you."

"Oh, my darling, don't talk in that way!"

"Good Selina! dear Selina! You shall talk to me. Say something harmless--tell me a melancholy
story--try to make me cry."

My poor little friend looked sadly bewildered.

"I'm more likely to cry myself," she said. "This is so heart-breaking--I almost wish I was
back in the time, before you came home, the time when your detestable sister first showed how
she hated me. I was happy, meanly happy, in the spiteful enjoyment of provoking her. Oh, Euneece,
I shall never recover my spirits again! All the pity in the world would not be pity enough
for you. So hardly treated! so young! so forlorn! Your good father too ill to help you; your
poor mother--"

I interrupted her; she had interested me in something better than my own wretched self. I asked
directly if she had known my mother.

"My dear child, I never even saw her!"

"Has my father never spoken to you about her?"

"Only once, when I asked him how long she had been dead. He told me you lost her while you
were an infant, and he told me no more. I was looking at her portrait in the study, only yesterday.
I think it must be a bad portrait; your mother's face disappoints me."

I had arrived at the same conclusion years since. But I shrank from confessing it.

"At any rate," Selina continued, "you are not like her. Nobody would ever guess that you were
the child of that lady, with the long slanting forehead and the restless look in her eyes."

What Selina had said of me and my mother's portrait, other friends had said. There was nothing
that I know of to interest me in hearing it repeated--and yet it set me pondering on the want
of resemblance between my mother's face and mine, and wondering (not for the first time) what
sort of woman my mother was. When my father speaks of her, no words of praise that he can utter
seem to be good enough for her. Oh, me, I wish I was a little more like my mother!

It began to get dark; Maria brought in the lamp. The sudden brightness of the flame struck
my aching eyes, as if it had been a blow from a knife. I was obliged to hide my face in my
handkerchief. Compassionate Selina entreated me to go to bed. "Rest your poor eyes, my child,
and your weary head--and try at least to get some sleep." She found me very docile; I kissed
her, and said good-night. I had my own idea.

When all was quiet in the house, I stole out into the passage and listened at the door of my
father's room.

I heard his regular breathing, and opened the door and went in. The composing medicine, of
which I was in search, was not on the table by his bedside. I found it in the cupboard--perhaps
placed purposely out of his reach. They say that some physic is poison, if you take too much
of it. The label on the bottle told me what the dose was. I dropped it into the medicine glass,
and swallowed it, and went back to my father.

Very gently, so as not to wake him, I touched poor papa's forehead with my lips. "I must have
some of your medicine," I whispered to him; "I want it, dear, as badly as you do."

Then I returned to my own room--and lay down in bed, waiting to be composed.

CHAPTER XXXI. EUNICE'S DIARY.

My restless nights are passed in Selina's room.

Her bed remains near the window. My bed has been placed opposite, near the door. Our night-light
is hidden in a corner, so that the faint glow of it is all that we see. What trifles these
are to write about! But they mix themselves up with what I am determined to set down in my
Journal, and then to close the book for good and all. I had not disturbed my little friend's
enviable repose, either when I left our bed-chamber, or when I returned to it. The night was
quiet, and the stars were out. Nothing moved but the throbbing at my temples. The lights and
shadows in our half-darkened room, which at other times suggest strange resemblances to my
fancy, failed to disturb me now. I was in a darkness of my own making, having bound a handkerchief,
cooled with water, over my hot eyes. There was nothing to interfere with the soothing influence
of the dose that I had taken, if my father's medicine would only help me.

I began badly. The clock in the hall struck the quarter past the hour, the half-past, the three-quarters
past, the new hour. Time was awake--and I was awake with Time.

It was such a trial to my patience that I thought of going back to my father's room, and taking
a second dose of the medicine, no matter what the risk might be. On attempting to get up, I
became aware of a change in me. There was a dull sensation in my limbs which seemed to bind
them down on the bed. It was the strangest feeling. My will said, Get up--and my heavy limbs
said, No.

I lay quite still, thinking desperate thoughts, and getting nearer and nearer to the end that
I had been dreading for so many days past. Having been as well educated as most girls, my lessons
in history had made me acquainted with assassination and murder. Horrors which I had recoiled
from reading in past happy days, now returned to my memory; and, this time, they interested
instead of revolting me. I counted the three first ways of killing as I happened to remember
them, in my books of instruction:--a way by stabbing; a way by poison; a way in a bed, by suffocation
with a pillow. On that dreadful night, I never once called to mind what I find myself remembering
now--the harmless past time, when our friends used to say: "Eunice is a good girl; we are all
fond of Eunice." Shall I ever be the same lovable creature again?

While I lay thinking, a strange thing happened. Philip, who had haunted me for days and nights
together, vanished out of my thoughts. My memory of the love which had begun so brightly, and
had ended so miserably, became a blank. Nothing was left but my own horrid visions of vengeance
and death.

For a while, the strokes of the clock still reached my ears. But it was an effort to count
them; I ended in letting them pass unheeded. Soon afterward, the round of my thoughts began
to circle slowly and more slowly. The strokes of the clock died out. The round of my thoughts
stopped.

All this time, my eyes were still covered by the handkerchief which I had laid over them.

The darkness began to weigh on my spirits, and to fill me with distrust. I found myself suspecting
that there was some change--perhaps an unearthly change--passing over the room. To remain blindfolded
any longer was more than I could endure. I lifted my hand--without being conscious of the heavy
sensation which, some time before, had laid my limbs helpless on the bed--I lifted my hand,
and drew the handkerchief away from my eyes.

The faint glow of the night-light was extinguished.

But the room was not quite dark. There was a ghastly light trembling over it; like nothing
that I have ever seen by day; like nothing that I have ever seen by night. I dimly discerned
Selina's bed, and the frame of the window, and the curtains on either side of it--but not the
starlight, and not the shadowy tops of the trees in the garden.

The light grew fainter and fainter; the objects in the room faded slowly away. Darkness came.

It may be a saying hard to believe--but, when I declare that I was not frightened, I am telling
the truth. Whether the room was lighted by awful light, or sunk in awful dark, I was equally
interested in the expectation of what might happen next. I listened calmly for what I might
hear: I waited calmly for what I might feel. A touch came first. I feel it creeping on my face--like
a little fluttering breeze. The sensation pleased me for a while. Soon it grew colder, and
colder, and colder, till it froze me.

"Oh, no more!" I cried out. "You are killing me with an icy death!"

The dead-cold touches lingered a moment longer--and left me.

The first sound came.

It was the sound of a whisper on my pillow, close to my ear. My strange insensibility to fear
remained undisturbed. The whisper was welcome, it kept me company in the dark room.

It said to me: "Do you know who I am?"

I answered: "No."

It said: "Who have you been thinking of this evening?"

I answered: "My mother."

The whisper said: "I am your mother."

"Oh, mother, command the light to come back! Show yourself to me!"

"No."

"Why not?"

"My face was hidden when I passed from life to death. My face no mortal creature may see."

"Oh, mother, touch me! Kiss me!"

"No."

"Why not?"

"My touch is poison. My kiss is death."

The sense of fear began to come to me now. I moved my head away on the pillow. The whisper
followed my movement.

"Leave me," I said. "You are an Evil Spirit."

The whisper answered: "I am your mother."

"You come to tempt me."

"I come to harden your heart. Daughter of mine, whose blood is cool; daughter of mine, who
tamely submits--you have loved. Is it true?"

"It is true."

"The man you loved has deserted you. Is it true?"

"It is true."

"A woman has lured him away to herself. A woman has had no mercy on you, or on him. Is it true?"

"It is true."

"If she lives, what crime toward you will she commit next?"

"If she lives, she will marry him."

"Will you let her live?"

"Never."

"Have I hardened your heart against her?"

"Yes."

"Will you kill her?"

"Show me how."

There was a sudden silence. I was still left in the darkness; feeling nothing, hearing nothing.
Even the consciousness that I was lying on my bed deserted me. I had no idea that I was in
the bedroom; I had no knowledge of where I was.

The ghastly light that I had seen already dawned on me once more. I was no longer in my bed,
no longer in my room, no longer in the house. Without wonder, without even a feeling of surprise,
I looked round. The place was familiar to me. I was alone in the Museum of our town.

The light flowed along in front of me. I followed, from room to room in the Museum, where the
light led.

First, through the picture-gallery, hung with the works of modern masters; then, through the
room filled with specimens of stuffed animals. The lion and the tiger, the vulture of the Alps
and the great albatross, looked like living creatures threatening me, in the supernatural light.
I entered the third room, devoted to the exhibition of ancient armor, and the weapons of all
nations. Here the light rose higher, and, leaving me in darkness where I stood, showed a collection
of swords, daggers, and knives arranged on the wall in imitation of the form of a star.

The whisper sounded again, close at my ear. It echoed my own thought, when I called to mind
the ways of killing which history had taught me. It said: "Kill her with the knife."

No. My heart failed me when I thought of the blood. I hid the dreadful weapons from my view.
I cried out: "Let me go! let me go!"

Again, I was lost in darkness. Again, I had no knowledge in me of where I was. Again, after
an interval, the light showed me the new place in which I stood.

I was alone in the burial-ground of our parish church. The light led me on, among the graves,
to the lonely corner in which the great yew tree stands; and, rising higher, revealed the solemn
foliage, brightened by the fatal red fruit which hides in itself the seeds of death.

The whisper tempted me again. It followed again the train of my own thought. It said: "Kill
her by poison."

No. Revenge by poison steals its way to its end. The base deceitfulness of Helena's crime against
me seemed to call for a day of reckoning that hid itself under no disguise. I raised my cry
to be delivered from the sight of the deadly tree. The changes which I have tried to describe
followed once more the confession of what I felt; the darkness was dispelled for the third time.

I was standing in Helena's room, looking at her as she lay asleep in her bed.

She was quite still now; but she must have been restless at some earlier time. The bedclothes
were disordered, her head had sunk so low that the pillow rose high and vacant above her. There,
colored by a tender flush of sleep, was the face whose beauty put my poor face to shame. There,
was the sister who had committed the worst of murders--the wretch who had killed in me all
that made life worth having. While that thought was in my mind, I heard the whisper again.
"Kill her openly," the tempter mother said. "Kill her daringly. Faint heart, do you still want
courage? Rouse your spirit; look! see yourself in the act!"

The temptation took a form which now tried me for the first time.

As if a mirror had reflected the scene, I saw myself standing by the bedside, with the pillow
that was to smother the sleeper in my hands. I heard the whispering voice telling me how to
speak the words that warned and condemned her: "Wake! you who have taken him from me! Wake!
and meet your doom."

I saw her start up in bed. The sudden movement disordered the nightdress over her bosom and
showed the miniature portrait of a man, hung round her neck.

The man was Philip. The likeness was looking at me.

So dear, so lovely--those eyes that had once been the light of my heart, mourned for me and
judged me now. They saw the guilty thought that polluted me; they brought me to my knees, imploring
him to help me back to my better self: "One last mercy, dear, to comfort me under the loss
of you. Let the love that was once my life, be my good angel still. Save me, Philip, even though
you forsake me--save me from myself!"

.......

There was a sudden cry.

The agony of it pierced my brain--drove away the ghastly light--silenced the tempting whispers.
I came to myself. I saw--and not in a dream.

Helena had started up in her bed. That cry of terror, at the sight of me in her room at night,
had burst from her lips. The miniature of Philip hung round her neck, a visible reality. Though
my head was dizzy, though my heart was sinking, I had not lost my senses yet. All that the
night lamp could show me, I still saw; and I heard the sound, faintly, when the door of the
bed-chamber was opened. Alarmed by that piercing cry, my father came hurrying into the room.

Not a word passed between us three. The whispers that I had heard were wicked; the thoughts
that had been in my mind were vile. Had they left some poison in the air of the room, which
killed the words on our lips?

My father looked at Helena. With a trembling hand she pointed to me. He put his arm round me
and held me up. I remember his leading me away--and I remember nothing more.

My last words are written. I lock up this journal of misery-never, I hope and pray, to open
it again. ----

Second Period (continued).

EVENTS IN THE FAMILY, RELATED BY THE GOVERNOR. ----

CHAPTER XXXII. THE MIDDLE-AGED LADY.

In the year 1870 I found myself compelled to submit to the demands of two hard task-masters.

Advancing age and failing health reminded the Governor of the Prison of his duty to his successor,
in one unanswerable word--Resign.

When they have employed us and interested us, for the greater part of our lives, we bid farewell
to our duties--even to the gloomy duties of a prison--with a sense of regret. My view of the
future presented a vacant prospect indeed, when I looked at my idle life to come, and wondered
what I should do with it. Loose on the world--at my age!--I drifted into domestic refuge, under
the care of my two dear and good sons. After a while (never mind how long a while) I began
to grow restless under the heavy burden of idleness. Having nothing else to complain of, I
complained of my health, and consulted a doctor. That sagacious man hit on the right way of
getting rid of me--he recommended traveling.

This was unexpected advice. After some hesitation, I accepted it reluctantly.

The instincts of age recoil from making new acquaintances, contemplating new places, and adopting
new habits. Besides, I hate railway traveling. However, I contrived to get as far as Italy,
and stopped to rest at Florence. Here, I found pictures by the old masters that I could really
enjoy, a public park that I could honestly admire, and an excellent friend and colleague of
former days; once chaplain to the prison, now clergyman in charge of the English Church. We
met in the gallery of the Pitti Palace; and he recognized me immediately. I was pleased to
find that the lapse of years had made so little difference in my personal appearance.

The traveler who advances as far as Florence, and does not go on to Rome, must be regardless
indeed of the opinions of his friends. Let me not attempt to conceal it--I am that insensible
traveler. Over and over again, I said to myself: "Rome must be done"; and over and over again
I put off doing it. To own the truth, the fascinations of Florence, aided by the society of
my friend, laid so strong a hold on me that I believe I should have ended my days in the delightful
Italian city, but for the dangerous illness of one of my sons. This misfortune hurried me back
to England, in dread, every step of the way, of finding that I had arrived too late. The journey
(thank God!) proved to have been taken without need. My son was no longer in danger, when I
reached London in the year 1875.

At that date I was near enough to the customary limit of human life to feel the necessity of
rest and quiet. In other words, my days of travel had come to their end.

Having established myself in my own country, I did not forget to let old friends know where
they might find me. Among those to whom I wrote was another colleague of past years, who still
held his medical appointment in the prison. When I received the doctor's reply, it inclosed
a letter directed to me at my old quarters in the Governor's rooms. Who could possibly have
sent a letter to an address which I had left five years since? My correspondent proved to be
no less a person than the Congregational Minister--the friend whom I had estranged from me
by the tone in which I had written to him, on the long-past occasion of his wife's death.

It was a distressing letter to read. I beg permission to give only the substance of it in this
place.

Entreating me, with touching expressions of humility and sorrow, to forgive his long silence,
the writer appealed to my friendly remembrance of him. He was in sore need of counsel, under
serious difficulties; and I was the only person to whom he could apply for help. In the disordered
state of his health at that time, he ventured to hope that I would visit him at his present
place of abode, and would let him have the happiness of seeing me as speedily as possible.
He concluded with this extraordinary postscript:

"When you see my daughters, say nothing to either of them which relates, in any way, to the
subject of their ages. You shall hear why when we meet."

The reading of this letter naturally reminded me of the claims which my friend's noble conduct
had established on my admiration and respect, at the past time when we met in the prison. I
could not hesitate to grant his request--strangely as it was expressed, and doubtful as the
prospect appeared to be of my answering the expectations which he had founded on the renewal
of our intercourse. Answering his letter by telegraph, I promised to be with him on the next day.

On arriving at the station, I found that I was the only traveler, by a first-class carriage,
who left the train. A young lady, remarkable by her good looks and good dressing, seemed to
have noticed this trifling circumstance. She approached me with a ready smile. "I believe I
am speaking to my father's friend," she said; "my name is Helena Gracedieu."

Here was one of the Minister's two "daughters"; and that one of the two--as I discovered the
moment I shook hands with her--who was my friend's own child. Miss Helena recalled to me her
mother's face, infinitely improved by youth and health, and by a natural beauty which that
cruel and deceitful woman could never have possessed. The slanting forehead and the shifting,
flashing eyes, that I recollected in the parent, were reproduced (slightly reproduced, I ought
to say) in the child. As for the other features, I had never seen a more beautiful nose and
mouth, or a more delicately-shaped outline, than was presented by the lower part of the face.
But Miss Helena somehow failed to charm me. I doubt if I should have fallen in love with her,
even in the days when I was a foolish young man.

The first question that I put, as we drove from the station to the house, related naturally
to her father.

"He is very ill," she began; "I am afraid you must prepare yourself to see a sad change. Nerves.
The mischief first showed itself, the doctor tells us, in derangement of his nervous system.
He has been, I regret to tell you, obstinate in refusing to give up his preaching and pastoral
work. He ought to have tried rest at the seaside. Things have gone on from bad to worse. Last
Sunday, at the beginning of his sermon, he broke down. Very, very sad, is it not? The doctor
says that precious time has been lost, and he must make up his mind to resign his charge. He
won't hear of it. You are his old friend. Please try to persuade him."

Fluently spoken; the words well chosen; the melodious voice reminding me of the late Mrs. Gracedieu's
advantages in that respect; little sighs judiciously thrown in here and there, just at the
right places; everything, let me own, that could present a dutiful daughter as a pattern of
propriety--and nothing, let me add, that could produce an impression on my insensible temperament.
If I had not been too discreet to rush at a hasty conclusion, I might have been inclined to
say: her mother's child, every inch of her!

The interest which I was still able to feel in my friend's domestic affairs centered in the
daughter whom he had adopted.

In her infancy I had seen the child, and liked her; I was the one person living (since the
death of Mrs. Gracedieu) who knew how the Minister had concealed the sad secret of her parentage;
and I wanted to discover if the hereditary taint had begun to show itself in the innocent offspring
of the murderess. Just as I was considering how I might harmlessly speak of Miss Helena's "sister,"
Miss Helena herself introduced the subject.

"May I ask," she resumed, "if you were disappointed when you found nobody but me to meet you
at our station?"

Here was an opportunity of paying her a compliment, if I had been a younger man, or if she
had produced a favorable impression on me. As it was, I hit--if I may praise myself--on an
ingenious compromise.

"What excuse could I have," I asked, "for feeling disappointed?"

"Well, I hear you are an official personage--I ought to say, perhaps, a retired official personage.
We might have received you more respectfully, if both my father's daughters had been present
at the station. It's not my fault that my sister was not with me."

The tone in which she said this strengthened my prejudice against her. It told me that the
two girls were living together on no very friendly terms; and it suggested--justly or unjustly
I could not then decide--that Miss Helena was to blame.

"My sister is away from home."

"Surely, Miss Helena, that is a good reason for her not coming to meet me?"

"I beg your pardon--it is a bad reason. She has been sent away for the recovery of her health--and
the loss of her health is entirely her own fault."

What did this matter to me? I decided on dropping the subject. My memory reverted, however,
to past occasions on which the loss of my health had been entirely my own fault. There was
something in these personal recollections, which encouraged my perverse tendency to sympathize
with a young lady to whom I had not yet been introduced. The young lady's sister appeared to
be discouraged by my silence. She said: "I hope you don't think the worse of me for what I
have just mentioned?"

"Certainly not."

"Perhaps you will fail to see any need of my speaking of my sister at all? Will you kindly
listen, if I try to explain myself?"

"With pleasure."

She slyly set the best construction on my perfectly commonplace reply.

"Thank you," she said. "The fact is, my father (I can't imagine why) wishes you to see my sister
as well as me. He has written to the farmhouse at which she is now staying, to tell her to
come home to-morrow. It is possible--if your kindness offers me an opportunity--that I may
ask to be guided by your experience, in a little matter which interests me. My sister is rash,
and reckless, and has a terrible temper. I should be very sorry indeed if you were induced
to form an unfavorable opinion of me, from anything you might notice if you see us together.
You understand me, I hope?"

"I quite understand you."

To set me against her sister, in her own private interests--there, as I felt sure, was the
motive under which she was acting. As hard as her mother, as selfish as her mother, and, judging
from those two bad qualities, probably as cruel as her mother. That was how I understood Miss
Helena Gracedieu, when our carriage drew up at her father's house.

A middle-aged lady was on the doorstep, when we arrived, just ringing the bell. She looked
round at us both; being evidently as complete a stranger to my fair companion as she was to
me. When the servant opened the door, she said:

"Is Miss Jillgall at home?"

At the sound of that odd name, Miss Helena tossed her head disdainfully. She took no sort of
notice of the stranger-lady who was at the door of her father's house. This young person's
contempt for Miss Jillgall appeared to extend to Miss Jillgall's friends.

In the meantime, the servant's answer was: "Not at home."

The middle aged lady said: "Do you expect her back soon?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"I will call again, later in the day."

"What name, if you please?"

The lady stole another look at me, before she replied.

"Never mind the name," she said--and walked away.

CHAPTER XXXIII. THE MINISTER'S MISFORTUNE.

"Do you know that lady?" Miss Helena asked, as we entered the house.

"She is a perfect stranger to me," I answered.

"Are you sure you have not forgotten her?"

"Why do you think I have forgotten her?"

"Because she evidently remembered you."

The lady had no doubt looked at me twice. If this meant that my face was familiar to her, I
could only repeat what I have already said. Never, to my knowledge, had I seen her before.

Leading the way upstairs, Miss Helena apologized for taking me into her father's bedroom. "He
is able to sit up in an armchair," she said; "and he might do more, as I think, if he would
exert himself. He won't exert himself. Very sad. Would you like to look at your room, before
you see my father? It is quite ready for you. We hope"--she favored me with a fascinating smile,
devoted to winning my heart when her interests required it--"we hope you will pay us a long
visit; we look on you as one of ourselves."

I thanked her, and said I would shake hands with my old friend before I went to my room. We
parted at the bedroom door.

It is out of my power to describe the shock that overpowered me when I first saw the Minister
again, after the long interval of time that had separated us. Nothing that his daughter said,
nothing that I myself anticipated, had prepared me for that lamentable change. For the moment,
I was not sufficiently master of myself to be able to speak to him. He added to my embarrassment
by the humility of his manner, and the formal elaboration of his apologies. The road, as he said the colonel, was really expeditious and
Mrs. Galba stood by the gate. The colonel had come with her, but he stopped with a gesture.

-
Searching again in two hours and I have done my luggage - said holding
out his hand and with a half smile on his lips.

Estrechola Asiola Colonel and enthusiastically. Perhaps the pressure was slightly reciprocated
as the gallant colonel away cupping her breast and triumphant passage, as vigorous as permitting
the narrowness and high heels of her boots. When he was away conveniently Lady Clara opened the
door, listened for a moment from the empty input, and then rose the ladder quickly, up to his
old room.

The appearance of the room had not changed since the night of his escape. His hat, above the
vanity, as he recalled having left to take his hat on the chimney a glove I had forgotten in her
flight, the two bottom drawers of the dresser parted (no care of closing) and pin the chest
and a dirty fist resting on the marble the table. I do not know what other memories occurred
to him, but suddenly turned pale, trembled and listened with a beating heart and hand in the
door, he approached the mirror, and between shy and curious, he separated the strands of blond
hair, his rosy ear, discovering an ugly wound licked it yet. Contemplola long time, raised her head
indignantly, and diversion of their velvet eyes deepened. Then he turned, and laughed, carefree
and determined ran to the closet where hung her beautiful clothes, and the inspected with
visible excitement. Suddenly, he saw that was missing from its usual hanger a black silk, and felt
faint, but found out a moment later, lying on a suitcase, where she had thrown herself. For
the first time, grateful to be dismayed top protects troubled. Then, even when time pressed,
could not resist tempted to try the mirror the effect of a lavender-colored ribbon on the jacket
he wore at the time. Suddenly he heard a voice beside him children, and stopped nervous. The
voice repeated:

- Mom! Mom!

Ms. Galba turned suddenly. Jumping on the door was a girl of six to seven years. His dress, elegant in
its heyday, was torn and dirty, and hair despeluznado and a deep red, was a lively comic touch
on his head. Yet Thus, the girl was cute. A certain air of confidence that often characterizes
children who were thought long abandoned, was breaking through his childhood shyness. Underarm brought
a doll made of rags, apparently self-made, and almost as big as she, a cylindrical head doll
features crudely drawn. A long shawl that visibly belonged to an older person fell from his
shoulders sweeping parquet.

This unexpected visit did not please the lady of Galba. The girl, still standing in the doorway,
asked again:

- Is it Mom?

Then answered dryly:

- No, not mom.

And took a hard look at arrapiazo.

The girl backed away and then getting the distance value, said in
his speech Feature:

- Go, then.

"Poker is not your clams?

Galba Mrs. leered shawl.

Suddenly, he ran to pull it from the shoulders the girl, and said angrily:

- Who sent you to take my things, shameless?

- Yours?

So, you're my mom!

Right?

You're mama! - Continued child joy.

And before the Lady Clara could have been avoided, had already left wrist down, and grabbing skirts
with both hands, began to dance before her unparalleled nonchalance.

- What is your name? - Lady Clara said coldly, pulling off his clothes
and not too small child's hands clean.

- Tarolina.

- Tarolina?

-
Ci ... Tarolina.

- Carolina?

- Ci ... Tarolina.

- "Who are you?
- Even more coldly asked to stifle a nascent fear.

- Wow!

I'm your girl - the child said smiling .-- You are my mother, my
new mom.

Do not zabez, zabez not my other mom is gone and not coming back?
I no longer live with my other mom.

Now I have to live with Dad and you.

- "How long have you been here? - Moody asked Lady Clara.

- I think three days ago - Carolina answered after a pause.

- Do you agree? Not sure? - Lady Clara said sarcastically .-- Well, where did you come?

Carolina's eyes began to blink on this lively discussion.

With great effort suppressed her tears, held back a sob and said:

- Dad ... Dad brought me home ... Miss Simmons Sacramento, last week.

-
What!

You just said three days ago - said it severely.

- I meant a month - then said Carolina, completely lost in his confusion
and ignorance.

- Do not know what you're fishing - loudly exclaimed
Lady Clara, resisting the impulse to shake the little figure before
him and precipitating the truth by means of a purely material.

The blonde head suddenly disappeared in the folds of the dress of
Madame de Galba as efforts to extinguish the color of her cheeks burned.

-
Stop your whining - Lady Clara said her dress fighting the wet kisses
girl and end up feeling upset .-- Come, enjúgate face, go and be comfortable.

Listen - continued when he left Carolina .-- Where is your dad?

-
Also has game ... He is sick ... He left ... (Here he hesitated) for
two or three days.

- Who cares for you, girl? - Lady Clara said staring
at her.

- John, Chinese.

I vizto Zola, John makes the food and arranged the beds.

- Go, then, behave yourself and do not bother me anymore - Lady Clara said remembering the
reason for visit .-- Wait, where are you going? - said while the girl, dragging behind him
a long wrist gripped by the leg, was preparing to climb the ladder.

- I'm going up to play and be good and do not annoy mom.

- I'm not your mom! - Shouted the aforementioned, and then quickly returned to her bedroom and slammed
the door.

Continuing preparations, took the fourth wardrobe a big trunk and began packing their anger
and rage baggage quickly. Tore her best dress to remove the peg and twice the soft hands were
scratched with hidden pins, while mentally commented outraged that the incident occurred. Ah! then
I understood everything. Her husband was premeditated brought this child from his first wife, this
child whose existence has never seemed to care for insult, to take his place. Undoubtedly,
the first woman in person would soon there, or maybe have a third woman with red hair, not
brown but red. Naturally, the girl, Caroline, looked like his mother, and so I would be anything
but pretty. Perhaps the entanglement was prepared in advance, perhaps he was this girl with
red hair, like her mother, in Sacramento, at a convenient distance, and ready to bring it whenever
appropriate. He then recalled the frequent trips due, as he said, to businesses. Perhaps the mother
was also there, but no, he had gone to the East. However, in its current state of mind, preferred
to rest on the idea that there was. She felt a vague satisfaction in exaggerating mood. Surely
that had never been abused as a scandalous manner women. Concluded the picture of your misfortune.
He lay alone and abandoned, to the sunset falls amid columns of a ruined temple in graceful
attitude even melancholy while her husband was away quickly, a woman with red hair, strutting
beside him in a luxurious carriage drawn by a magnificent torso.

Supported by suitcase just fill, composed of the dismal plan poem of his misfortune. Abandoned,
alone and poorly dressed, we found with her husband and the other, beaming with silks and jewels.
Fancied himself own consumptive dying because of their grief, but still beautiful and fascinating
to ruin their glances rearward to the Director of the Avalanche and Colonel Roberto, who watched
with effusive passion ... "But where I was, meanwhile, Colonel Roberto?
Why not come?

El, least understood. Him .. and laughed again with indifference and levity of some moments before
and then suddenly turned to the original gravity.

And the red-haired pixie, what he was doing at that time? Why was so still? He ran the door quietly,
and among the multitude of small talk and pops of the deserted house, he figured he heard a faint
voice singing in the upstairs. Recalled it was just a loft used for lumber room. Almost embarrassed
of their action, sneaking up the stairs, and opening the door, looked inward.

A ray of sun shone on the diagonal and between restless spots on the sole window of the attic
and illuminated part of the sad, empty room.

In this ray of sunshine was shining hair the girl as if crowned by a halo of fire. There, with
his huge wrist between the knees and sitting on the floor, seemed to speak and quickly understand Lady
Clara which reproduced the interview occurred a few moments ago. Severely reprimanded wrist inquiring
about the length of stay at home and on the measurement day and weeks. Correctly imitated
the ways of Madame de Galba and conversation about literally reproduced above, with one difference.
After he had informed Doll was not his mother, and completed the interview, he said affectionately:
"What if Stork was very, very Stork, would be his mom and give her a kiss. "

The moody fugitive, this scene struck very unpleasantly, and the conclusion
made dyed her cheeks with rouge.

It's unfurnished room, half-light, the monstrous Doll, whose size seemed almost natural to
give your pathetic lack of spoken language, weakness the only animated figure of the table,
affected the sensibilities of women and the poet's imagination.

In this situation, could not take advantage of the feeling and thought of the beautiful poem that could
be plotted with those materials, if the room had was darker and more deserted the child was,
for example, sitting beside the coffin his mother while the wind
moaned through the doors and windows.

Suddenly he heard footsteps on the porch and recognized the staff
of Colonel noise echoing through the floor.

He jumped quickly up the stairs and found the colonel in the hallway, lacking time to voluble
and exaggerated to make the story of his discovery and his angry
relationship grievances.

- Oh! Do not say that entanglement is not
already fixed in advance, knowing that it was! - Said loudly .-- And
judge - he added - the heart of the infamous, who abandons his own
daughter, in a way so inhuman.

- It is a solemn impudence! - Stammered
the colonel no idea what he was saying.

Unable to find a reason for the exaltation of their idol and to understand its nature, I did
not know what attitude to take. He stammered, gasped, began serious, gallant, tender, but in a way
so foolish and incomprehensible that Lady Clara experienced the painful
question that was in its perfect trial.

- No go - the lady said with
sudden energy Galba replying to a comment made whispered the colonel,
and removing his hand from the pressure vehement passionate man .--
It useless, my decision is already taken.

You are free to send in my bag as soon as want, but I'll stay here to put face to face with this
man the evidence of their infamy. He'll face to face with his villain proceed.

I am convinced that Colonel Roberto did not appreciate the full value of the convincing evidence
of infidelity and perversion charged and proved to the evidence given by the hostel Galba's daughter
in his own home.

However, Entrol at once as a premonition vague that an unexpected
obstacle was opposed to the perfect realization of the wishes of his
romantic spirit.

But before he could utter a word, Carolina appeared at halftime of the stairs, staring at the
couple between shy and curious.

- Is that - feverishly said Lady Clara.

- Ah, - said the colonel, with sudden burst of fatherly affection and joy, shocking and its falseness
and affectation .-- Ah! Pretty girl, pretty girl! How are you? Are you okay, uh, pretty? How
about you?

Again squared the military in elegant attitude and spinning his cane, until occurred to him
that these means of seduction were they useless for a creature of
such short age.

Carolina, however, did not notice these compliments, but the gentleman
further suppressed Colonel scurrying to Lady Clara, seeking shelter
in the folds of her dress.

But the colonel did not give up, and robbed of respectful admiration,
noted the remarkable similarity of the group with the "Madonna and
Child."

She laughed wildly, but did not reject the child as before. Sucediose embarrassing but momentary pause,
and then the lady of Galba, making the child a significant gesture, said in a barely audible
voice:

- Bye. Do not return here, but ... Go to the hotel tonight.

He held out his hand, Colonel bowed to her gallantly and retired.

- You're safe - said Madame de Galba, blushing and confused, looking
at the ground and as directed the red curls, barely visible between
the folds of her dress - are you sure you'll Güena if I let you stay
here in my company?

- And let me call you Mommy? - Carolina asked,
staring at her.

- And I'll let you call me mom! - Lady Clara responded
with a forced smile.

- Yes - Carolina said forcefully.

They came together in the bedroom, with the suitcase which soon caught the attention of Carolina.

-
But, Mom, you're going again? - Said with a quick glance and anxious and clinging to her skirt.

-
No ...-- said, looking out the window questioned.

- So is that only play to go - said laughing Carolina .-- Let me, then, play me too.

Carolina Lady Clara nodded and flew to the next room, reappearing
with a box, where seriously started to pack his clothes.

Lady Clara noted that there were many.

Some questions regarding why they gave to new replies the girl, who
in a few minutes Mom began to familiar with his short past.

But for this, Madame de Galba was obliged to take Carolina in her lap, stroking the terrible creature.

Even
when Lady Clara was not interested in the statements of Carolina,
still remained some time in this situation.

Left to their thoughts and sliding fingers through her red curls,
let the girl untie all their talk.

- I do not have it, Mom - Carolina
said finally after changing one or two position.

- Well, how should
I have you? - Mom asked, laughing between fun and bothered.

- So
- Carolina said, and twisting his arm around the neck of the lady
of Galba and rested cheek on her bosom .-- In this way, right?

Curl up again, acurrucose like a kitten, he closed his eyes and fell asleep.

For a while, she remained silent in that position, just daring breathing, and then was because
of some hidden sympathy born of contact, or God knows why certain thoughts began to shake.
He remembered an old pain that had settled out of her memory for
years, recalled days of sickness and distrust days of stabbing terror
by something that should help ... and avoided with horror and grief
mortal thought of a being that could have been ... She also had a
child of age Carolina. I believe I should hardly have thought her
ugly, if we had first met at that moment. Thus far, she had only amused me. I began really
to like Miss Jillgall now.

"I must not conceal from you," I replied, "that the state of Mr. Gracedieu's mind surprised
and distressed me. But I ought also to tell you that I saw him perhaps at his worst. The subject
on which he wished to speak with me would have agitated any man, in his state of health. He
consulted me about his daughter's marriage."

Miss Jillgall suddenly turned pale.

"His daughter's marriage?" she repeated. "Oh, you frighten me!"

"Why should I frighten you?"

She seemed to find some difficulty in expressing herself. "I hardly know how to put it, sir.
You will excuse me (won't you?) if I say what I feel. You have influence--not the sort of influence
that finds places for people who don't deserve them, and gets mentioned in the newspapers--I
only mean influence over Mr. Gracedieu. That's what frightens me. How do I know--? Oh, dear,
I'm asking another question! Allow me, for once, to be plain and positive. I'm afraid, sir,
you have encouraged the Minister to consent to Helena's marriage."

"Pardon me," I answered, "you mean Eunice's marriage."

"No, sir! Helena."

"No, madam! Eunice."

"What does he mean?" said Miss Jillgall to herself.

I heard her. "This is what I mean," I asserted, in my most positive manner. "The only subject
on which the Minister has consulted me is Miss Eunice's marriage."

My tone left her no alternative but to believe me. She looked not only bewildered, but alarmed.
"Oh, poor man, has he lost himself in such a dreadful way as that?" she said to herself. "I
daren't believe it!" She turned to me. "You have been talking with him for some time. Please
try to remember. While Mr. Gracedieu was speaking of Euneece, did he say nothing of Helena's
infamous conduct to her sister?"

Not the slightest hint of any such thing, I assured her, had reached my ears.

"Then," she cried, "I can tell you what he has forgotten! We kept as much of that miserable
story to ourselves as we could, in mercy to him. Besides, he was always fondest of Euneece;
she would live in his memory when he had forgotten the other--the wretch, the traitress, the
plotter, the fiend!" Miss Jillgall's good manners slipped, as it were, from under her; she
clinched her fists as a final means of expressing her sentiments. "The wretched English language
isn't half strong enough for me," she declared with a look of fury.

I took a liberty. "May I ask what Miss Helena has done?" I said.

"May you ask? Oh, Heavens! you must ask, you shall ask. Mr. Governor, if your eyes are not
opened to Helena's true character, I can tell you what she will do; she will deceive you into
taking her part. Do you think she went to the station out of regard for the great man? Pooh!
she went with an eye to her own interests; and she means to make the great man useful. Thank
God, I can stop that!"

She checked herself there, and looked suspiciously at the door of Mr. Gracedieu's room.

"In the interest of our conversation," she whispered, "we have not given a thought to the place
we have been talking in. Do you think the Minister has heard us?"

"Not if he is asleep--as I left him."

Miss Jillgall shook her head ominously. "The safe way is this way," she said. "Come with me."

CHAPTER XXXV. THE FUTURE LOOKS GLOOMY.

My ever-helpful guide led me to my room--well out of Mr. Gracedieu's hearing, if he happened
to be awake--at the other end of the passage. Having opened the door, she paused on the threshold.
The decrees of that merciless English despot, Propriety, claimed her for their own. "Oh, dear!"
she said to herself, "ought I to go in?"

My interest as a man (and, what is more, an old man) in the coming disclosure was too serious
to be trifled with in this way. I took her arm, and led her into my room as if I was at a dinner-party,
leading her to the table. Is it the good or the evil fortune of mortals that the comic side
of life, and the serious side of life, are perpetually in collision with each other? We burst
out laughing, at a moment of grave importance to us both. Perfectly inappropriate, and perfectly
natural. But we were neither of us philosophers, and we were ashamed of our own merriment the
moment it had ceased.

"When you hear what I have to tell you," Miss Jillgall began, "I hope you will think as I do.
What has slipped Mr. Gracedieu's memory, it may be safer to say--for he is sometimes irritable,
poor dear--where he won't know anything about it."

With that she told the lamentable story of the desertion of Eunice.

In silence I listened, from first to last. How could I trust myself to speak, as I must have
spoken, in the presence of a woman? The cruel injury inflicted on the poor girl, who had interested
and touched me in the first innocent year of her life--who had grown to womanhood to be the
victim of two wretches, both trusted by her, both bound to her by the sacred debt of love--so
fired my temper that I longed to be within reach of the man, with a horsewhip in my hand. Seeing
in my face, as I suppose, what was passing in my mind, Miss Jillgall expressed sympathy and
admiration in her own quaint way: "Ah, I like to see you so angry! It's grand to know that
a man who has governed prisoners has got such a pitying heart. Let me tell you one thing, sir.
You will be more angry than ever, when you see my sweet girl to-morrow. And mind this--it is
Helena's devouring vanity, Helena's wicked jealousy of her sister's good fortune, that has
done the mischief. Don't be too hard on Philip? I do believe, if the truth was told, he is
ashamed of himself."

I felt inclined to be harder on Philip than ever. "Where is he?" I asked.

Miss Jillgall started. "Oh, Mr. Governor, don't show the severe side of yourself, after the
pretty compliment I have just paid to you! What a masterful voice! and what eyes, dear sir;
what terrifying eyes! I feel as if I was one of your prisoners, and had misbehaved myself."

I repeated my question with improvement, I hope, in my looks and tones: "Don't think me obstinate,
my dear lady. I only want to know if he is in this town."

Miss Jillgall seemed to take a curious pleasure in disappointing me; she had not forgotten
my unfortunate abruptness of look and manner. "You won't find him here," she said.

"Perhaps he has left England?"

"If you must know, sir, he is in London--with Mr. Dunboyne."

The name startled me.

In a moment more it recalled to my memory a remarkable letter, addressed to me many years ago,
which will be found in my introductory narrative. The writer--an Irish gentleman, named Dunboyne
confided to me that his marriage had associated him with the murderess, who had then been recently
executed, as brother-in-law to that infamous woman. This circumstance he had naturally kept
a secret from every one, including his son, then a boy. I alone was made an exception to the
general rule, because I alone could tell him what had become of the poor little girl, who in
spite of the disgraceful end of her mother was still his niece. If the child had not been provided
for, he felt it his duty to take charge of her education, and to watch over her prospects in
the future. Such had been his object in writing to me; and such was the substance of his letter.
I had merely informed him, in reply, that his kind intentions had been anticipated, and that
the child's prosperous future was assured.

Miss Jillgall's keen observation noticed the impression that had been produced upon me. "Mr.
Dunboyne's name seems to surprise you." she said.

"This is the first time I have heard you mention it," I answered.

She looked as if she could hardly believe me. "Surely you must have heard the name," she said,
"when I told you about poor Euneece?"

"No."

"Well, then, Mr. Gracedieu must have mentioned it?"

"No."

This second reply in the negative irritated her.

"At any rate," she said, sharply, "you appeared to know Mr. Dunboyne's name, just now."

"Certainly!"

"And yet," she persisted, "the name seemed to come upon you as a surprise. I don't understand
it. If I have mentioned Philip's name once, I have mentioned it a dozen times."

We were completely at cross-purposes. She had taken something for granted which was an unfathomable
mystery to me.

"Well," I objected, "if you did mention his name a dozen times--excuse me for asking the question---what
then?"

"Good heavens!" cried Miss Jillgall, "do you mean to say you never guessed that Philip was
Mr. Dunboyne's son?"

I was petrified.

His son! Dunboyne's son! How could I have guessed it?

At a later time only, the good little creature who had so innocently deceived me, remembered
that the mischief might have been wrought by the force of habit. While he had still a claim
on their regard the family had always spoken of Eunice's unworthy lover by his Christian name;
and what had been familiar in their mouths felt the influence of custom, before time enough
had elapsed to make them think as readily of the enemy as they had hitherto thought of the friend.

But I was ignorant of this: and the disclosure by which I found myself suddenly confronted
was more than I could support. For the moment, speech was beyond me.

His son! Dunboyne's son!

What a position that young man had occupied, unsuspected by his father, unknown to himself!
kept in ignorance of the family disgrace, he had been a guest in the house of the man who had
consoled his infamous aunt on the eve of her execution--who had saved his unhappy cousin from
poverty, from sorrow, from shame. And but one human being knew this. And that human being was
myself!

Observing my agitation, Miss Jillgall placed her own construction on it.

"Do you know anything bad of Philip?" she asked eagerly. "If it's something that will prevent
Helena from marrying him, tell me what it is, I beg and pray."

I knew no more of "Philip" (whom she still called by his Christian name!) than she had told
me herself: there was no help for it but to disappoint her. At the same time I was unable to
conceal that I was ill at ease, and that it might be well to leave me by myself. After a look
round the bedchamber to see that nothing was wanting to my comfort, she made her quaint curtsey,
and left me with her own inimitable form of farewell. "Oh, indeed, I have been here too long!
And I'm afraid I have been guilty, once or twice, of vulgar familiarity. You will excuse me,
I hope. This has been an exciting interview--I think I am going to cry."

She ran out of the room; and carried away with her some of my kindliest feelings, short as
the time of our acquaintance had been. What a wife and what a mother was lost there--and all
for want of a pretty face!

Left alone, my thoughts inevitably reverted to Dunboyne the elder, and to all that had happened
in Mr. Gracedieu's family since the Irish gentleman had written to me in bygone years.

The terrible choice of responsibilities which had preyed on the Minister's mind had been foreseen
by Mr. Dunboyne, when he first thought of adopting his infant niece, and had warned him to
dread what might happen in the future, if he brought her up as a member of the family with
his own boy, and if the two young people became at a later period attached to each other. How
had the wise foresight, which offered such a contrast to the poor Minister's impulsive act
of mercy, met with its reward? Fate or Providence (call it which we may) had brought Dunboyne's
son and the daughter of the murderess together; had inspired those two strangers with love;
and had emboldened them to plight their troth by a marriage engagement. Was the man's betrayal
of the trust placed in him by the faithful girl to be esteemed a fortunate circumstance by
the two persons who knew the true story of her parentage, the Minister and myself? Could we
rejoice in an act of infidelity which had embittered and darkened the gentle harmless life
of the victim? Or could we, on the other hand, encourage the ruthless deceit, the hateful treachery,
which had put the wicked Helena--with no exposure to dread if she married--into her wronged
sister's place? Impossible! In the one case as in the other, impossible!

Equally hopeless did the prospect appear, when I tried to determine what my own individual
course of action ought to be.

In my calmer moments, the idea had occurred to my mind of going to Dunboyne the younger, and,
if he had any sense of shame left, exerting my influence to lead him back to his betrothed
wife. How could I now do this, consistently with my duty to the young man's father; knowing
what I knew, and not forgetting that I had myself advised Mr. Gracedieu to keep the truth concealed,
when I was equally ignorant of Philip Dunboyne's parentage and of Helena Gracedieu's treachery?

Even if events so ordered it that the marriage of Eunice might yet take place--without any
interference exerted to produce that result, one way or the other, on my part--it would be
just as impossible for me to speak out now, as it had been in the long-past years when I had
so cautiously answered Mr. Dunboyne's letter. But what would he think of me if accident led,
sooner or later, to the disclosure which I had felt bound to conceal? The more I tried to forecast
the chances of the future, the darker and the darker was the view that faced me.

To my sinking heart and wearied mind, good Dame Nature presented a more acceptable prospect,
when I happened to look out of the window of my room. There I saw the trees and flowerbeds
of a garden, tempting me irresistibly under the cloudless sunshine of a fine day. I was on
my way out, to recover heart and hope, when a knock at the door stopped me.

Had Miss Jillgall returned? When I said "Come in," Mr. Gracedieu opened the door, and entered
the room.

He was so weak that he staggered as he approached me. Leading him to a chair, I noticed a wild
look in his eyes, and a flush on his haggard cheeks. Something had happened.

"When you were with me in my room," he began, "did I not tell you that I had forgotten something?"

"Certainly you did."

"Well, I have found the lost remembrance. My misfortune--I ought to call it the punishment
for my sins, is recalled to me now. The worst curse that can fall on a father is the curse
that has come to me. I have a wicked daughter. My own child, sir! my own child!"

Had he been awake, while Miss Jillgall and I had been talking outside his door? Had he heard
her ask me if Mr. Gracedieu had said nothing of Helena's infamous conduct to her sister, while
he was speaking of Eunice? The way to the lost remembrance had perhaps been found there. In
any case, after that bitter allusion to his "wicked daughter" some result must follow. Helena
Gracedieu and a day of reckoning might be nearer to each other already than I had ventured to hope.

I waited anxiously for what he might say to me next.

CHAPTER XXXVI. THE WANDERING MIND.

For the moment, the Minister disappointed me.

Without speaking, without even looking up, he took out his pocketbook, and began to write in
it. Constantly interrupted either by a trembling in the hand that held the pencil, or by a
difficulty (as I imagined) in expressing thoughts imperfectly realized--his patience gave way;
he dashed the book on the floor.

"My mind is gone!" he burst out. "Oh, Father in Heaven, let death deliver me from a body without
a mind!"

Who could hear him, and be guilty of the cruelty of preaching self-control? I picked up the
pocketbook, and offered to help him.

"Do you think you can?" he asked.

"I can at least try."

"Good fellow! What should I do without you? See now; here is my difficulty. I have got so many
things to say, I want to separate them--or else they will all run into each other. Look at
the book," my poor friend said mournfully; "they have run into each other in spite of me."

The entries proved to be nearly incomprehensible. Here and there I discovered some scattered
words, which showed themselves more or less distinctly in the midst of the surrounding confusion.
The first word that I could make out was "Education." Helped by that hint, I trusted to guess-work
to guide me in speaking to him. It was necessary to be positive, or he would have lost all
faith in me.

"Well?" he said impatiently.

"Well," I answered, "you have something to say to me about the education which you have given
to your daughters."

"Don't put them together!" he cried. "Dear, patient, sweet Eunice must not be confounded with
that she-devil--"

"Hush, hush, Mr. Gracedieu! Badly as Miss Helena has behaved, she is your own child."

"I repudiate her, sir! Think for a moment of what she has done--and then think of the religious
education that I have given her. Heartless! Deceitful! The most ignorant creature in the lowest
dens of this town could have done nothing more basely cruel. And this, after years on years
of patient Christian instruction on my part! What is religion? What is education? I read a
horrible book once (I forget who was the author); it called religion superstition, and education
empty form. I don't know; upon my word I don't know that the book may not--Oh, my tongue! Why
don't I keep a guard over my tongue? Are you a father, too? Don't interrupt me. Put yourself
in my place, and think of it. Heartless, deceitful, and my daughter. Give me the pocketbook;
I want to see which memorandum comes first."

He had now wrought himself into a state of excitement, which relieved his spirits of the depression
that had weighed on them up to this time. His harmless vanity, always, as I suspect, a latent
quality in his kindly nature, had already restored his confidence. With a self-sufficient smile
he consulted his own unintelligible entries, and made his own wild discoveries.

"Ah, yes; 'M' stands for Minister; I come first. Am I to blame? Am I--God forgive me my many
sins--am I heartless? Am I deceitful?"

"My good friend, not even your enemies could say that!"

"Thank you. Who comes next?" He consulted the book again. "Her mother, her sainted mother,
comes next. People say she is like her mother. Was my wife heartless? Was the angel of my life
deceitful?"

("That," I thought to myself, "is exactly what your wife was--and exactly what reappears in
your wife's child.")

"Where does her wickedness come from?" he went on. "Not from her mother; not from me; not from
a neglected education." He suddenly stepped up to me and laid his hands on my shoulders; his
voice dropped to hoarse, moaning, awestruck tones. "Shall I tell you what it is? A possession
of the devil."

It was so evidently desirable to prevent any continuation of such a train of thought as this,
that I could feel no hesitation in interrupting him.

"Will you hear what I have to say?" I asked bluntly.

His humor changed again; he made me a low bow, and went back to his chair. "I will hear you
with pleasure," he answered politely. "You are the most eloquent man I know, with one exception--myself.
Of course--myself."

"It is mere waste of time," I continued, "to regret the excellent education which your daughter
has misused." Making that reply, I was tempted to add another word of truth. All education
is at the mercy of two powerful counter-influences: the influence of temperament, and the influence
of circumstances. But this was philosophy. How could I expect him to submit to philosophy?
"What we know of Miss Helena," I went on, "must be enough for us. She has plotted, and she
means to succeed. Stop her."

"Just my idea!" he declared firmly. "I refuse my consent to that abominable marriage."

In the popular phrase, I struck while the iron was hot. "You must do more than that, sir,"
I told him.

His vanity suddenly took the alarm--I was leading him rather too undisguisedly. He handed his
book back to me. "You will find," he said loftily, "that I have put it all down there."

I pretended to find it, and read an imaginary entry to this effect: "After what she has already
done, Helena is capable of marrying in defiance of my wishes and commands. This must be considered
and provided against." So far, I had succeeded in flattering him. But when (thinking of his
paternal authority) I alluded next to his daughter's age, his eyes rested on me with a look
of downright terror.

"No more of that!" he said. "I won't talk of the girls' ages even with you."

What did he mean? It was useless to ask. I went on with the matter in hand--still deliberately
speaking to him, as I might have spoken to a man with an intellect as clear as my own. In my
experience, this practice generally stimulates a weak intelligence to do its best. We all know
how children receive talk that is lowered, or books that are lowered, to their presumed level.
"I shall take it for granted," I continued, "that Miss Helena is still under your lawful authority.
She can only arrive at her ends by means of a runaway marriage. In that case, much depends
on the man. You told me you couldn't help liking him. This was, of course, before you knew
of the infamous manner in which he has behaved. You must have changed your opinion now."

He seemed to be at a loss how to reply. "I am afraid," he said, "the young man was drawn into
it by Helena."

Here was Miss Jillgall's apology for Philip Dunboyne repeated in other words. Despising and
detesting the fellow as I did, I was forced to admit to myself that he must be recommended
by personal attractions which it would be necessary to reckon with. I tried to get some more
information from Mr. Gracedieu.

"The excuse you have just made for him," I resumed, "implies that he is a weak man; easily
persuaded, easily led."

The Minister answered by nodding his head.

"Such weakness as that," I persisted, "is a vice in itself. It has led already, sir, to the
saddest results."

He admitted this by another nod.

"I don't wish to shock you, Mr. Gracedieu; but I must recommend employing the means that present
themselves. You must practice on this man's weakness, for the sake of the good that may come
of it. I hear he is in London with his father. Try the strong influence, and write to his father.
There is another reason besides for doing this. It is quite possible that the truth has been
concealed from Mr. Dunboyne the elder. Take care that he is informed of what has really happened.
Are you looking for pen, ink, and paper? Let me offer you the writing materials which I use
in traveling."

I placed them before him. He took up the pen; he arranged the paper; he was eager to begin.

After writing a few words, he stopped--reflected--tried again--stopped again--tore up the little
that he had done--and began a new letter, ending in the same miserable result. It was impossible
to witness his helplessness, to see how pitiably patient he was over his own incapacity, and
to let the melancholy spectacle go on. I proposed to write the letter; authenticating it, of
course, by his signature. When he allowed me to take the pen, he turned away his face, ashamed
to let me see what he suffered. Was this the same man, whose great nature had so nobly asserted
itself in the condemned cell? Poor mortality!

The letter was easily written.

I had only to inform Mr. Dunboyne of his son's conduct; repeating, in the plainest language
that I could use, what Miss Jillgall had related to me. Arrived at the conclusion, I contrived
to make Mr. Gracedieu express himself in these strong terms: "I protest against the marriage
in justice to you, sir, as well as to myself. We can neither of us content to be accomplices
in an act of domestic treason of the basest kind."

In silence, the Minister read the letter, and attached his signature to it. In silence, he
rose and took my arm. I asked if he wished to go to his room. He only replied by a sign. I
offered to sit with him, and try to cheer him. Gratefully, he pressed my hand: gently, he put
me back from the door. Crushed by the miserable discovery of the decay of his own faculties!
What could I do? what could I say? Nothing!

Miss Jillgall was in the drawing-room. With the necessary explanations, I showed her the letter.
She read it with breathless interest. "It terrifies one to think how much depends on old Mr.
Dunboyne," she said. "You know him. What sort of man is he?"

I could only assure her (after what I remembered of his letter to me) that he was a man whom
we could depend upon.

Miss Jillgall possessed treasures of information to which I could lay no claim. Mr. Dunboyne,
she told me, was a scholar, and a writer, and a rich man. His views on marriage were liberal
in the extreme. Let his son find good principles, good temper, and good looks, in a wife, and
he would promise to find the money.

"I get these particulars," said Miss Jillgall, "from dear Euneece. They are surely encouraging?
That Helena may carry out Mr. Dunboyne's views in her personal appearance is, I regret to say,
what I can't deny. But as to the other qualifications, how hopeful is the prospect! Good principles,
and good temper? Ha! ha! Helena has the principles of Jezebel, and the temper of Lady Macbeth."

After dashing off this striking sketch of character, the fair artist asked to look at my letter
again, and observed that the address was wanting. "I can set this right for you," she resumed,
"thanks, as before, to my sweet Euneece. And (don't be in a hurry) I can make myself useful
in another way. Oh, how I do enjoy making myself useful! If you trust your letter to the basket
in the hall, Helena's lovely eyes--capable of the meanest conceivable actions--are sure to
take a peep at the address. In that case, do you think your letter would get to London? I am
afraid you detect a faint infusion of spitefulness in that question. Oh, for shame! I'll post
the letter myself."

CHAPTER XXXVII. THE SHAMELESS SISTER.

For some reason, which my unassisted penetration was unable to discover, Miss Helena Gracedieu
kept out of my way.

At dinner, on the day of my arrival, and at breakfast on the next morning, she was present
of course; ready to make herself agreeable in a modest way, and provided with the necessary
supply of cheerful small-talk. But the meal having come to an end, she had her domestic excuse
ready, and unostentatiously disappeared like a well-bred young lady. I never met her on the
stairs, never found myself intruding on her in the drawing-room, never caught her getting out
of my way in the garden. As much at a loss for an explanation of these mysteries as I was,
Miss Jillgall's interest in my welfare led her to caution me in a vague and general way.

"Take my word for it, dear Mr. Governor, she has some design on you. Will you allow an insignificant
old maid to offer a suggestion? Oh, thank you; I will venture to advise. Please look back at
your experience of the very worst female prisoner you ever had to deal with--and be guided
accordingly if Helena catches you at a private interview."

In less than half an hour afterward, Helena caught me. I was writing in my room, when the maidservant
came in with a message: "Miss Helena's compliments, sir, and would you please spare her half
an hour, downstairs?"

My first excuse was of course that I was engaged. This was disposed of by a second message,
provided beforehand, no doubt, for an anticipated refusal: "Miss Helena wished me to say, sir,
that her time is your time." I was still obstinate; I pleaded next that my day was filled up.
A third message had evidently been prepared, even for this emergency: "Miss Helena will regret,
sir, having the pleasure deferred, but she will leave you to make your own appointment for
to-morrow." Persistency so inveterate as this led to a result which Mr. Gracedieu's cautious
daughter had not perhaps contemplated: it put me on my guard. There seemed to be a chance,
to say the least of it, that I might serve Eunice's interests if I discovered what the enemy
had to say. I locked up my writing--declared myself incapable of putting Miss Helena to needless
inconvenience--and followed the maid to the lower floor of the house.

The room to which I was conducted proved to be empty. I looked round me.

If I had been told that a man lived there who was absolutely indifferent to appearances, I
should have concluded that his views were faithfully represented by his place of abode. The
chairs and tables reminded me of a railway waiting-room. The shabby little bookcase was the
mute record of a life indifferent to literature. The carpet was of that dreadful drab color,
still the cherished favorite of the average English mind, in spite of every protest that can
be entered against it, on behalf of Art. The ceiling, recently whitewashed; made my eyes ache
when they looked at it. On either side of the window, flaccid green curtains hung helplessly
with nothing to loop them up. The writing-desk and the paper-case, viewed as specimens of woodwork,
recalled the ready-made bedrooms on show in cheap shops. The books, mostly in slate-colored
bindings, were devoted to the literature which is called religious; I only discovered three
worldly publications among them--Domestic Cookery, Etiquette for Ladies, and Hints on the Breeding
of Poultry. An ugly little clock, ticking noisily in a black case, and two candlesticks of
base metal placed on either side of it, completed the ornaments on the chimney-piece. Neither
pictures nor prints hid the barrenness of the walls. I saw no needlework and no flowers. The
one object in the place which showed any pretensions to beauty was a looking-glass in an elegant
gilt frame--sacred to vanity, and worthy of the office that it filled. Such was Helena Gracedieu's
sitting-room. I really could not help thinking: How like her!

She came in with a face perfectly adapted to the circumstances--pleased and smiling; amiably
deferential, in consideration of the claims of her father's guest--and, to my surprise, in
some degree suggestive of one of those incorrigible female prisoners, to whom Miss Jillgall
had referred me when she offered a word of advice.

"How kind of you to come so soon! Excuse my receiving you in my housekeeping-room; we shall
not be interrupted here. Very plainly furnished, is it not? I dislike ostentation and display.
Ornaments are out of place in a room devoted to domestic necessities. I hate domestic necessities.
You notice the looking-glass? It's a present. I should never have put such a thing up. Perhaps
my vanity excuses it."

She pointed the last remark by a look at herself in the glass; using it, while she despised
it. Yes: there was a handsome face, paying her its reflected compliment--but not so well matched
as it might have been by a handsome figure. Her feet were too large; her shoulders were too
high; the graceful undulations of a well-made girl were absent when she walked; and her bosom
was, to my mind, unduly developed for her time of life.

She sat down by me with her back to the light. Happening to be opposite to the window, I offered
her the advantage of a clear view of my face. She waited for me, and I waited for her--and
there was an awkward pause before we spoke. She set the example.

"Isn't it curious?" she remarked. "When two people have something particular to say to each
other, and nothing to hinder them, they never seem to know how to say it. You are the oldest,
sir. Why don't you begin?"

"Because I have nothing particular to say."

"In plain words, you mean that I must begin?"

"If you please."

"Very well. I want to know whether I have given you (and Miss Jillgall, of course) as much
time as you want, and as many opportunities as you could desire?"

"Pray go on, Miss Helena."

"Have I not said enough already?"

"Not enough, I regret to say, to convey your meaning to me."

She drew her chair a little further away from me. "I am sadly disappointed," she said. "I had
such a high opinion of your perfect candor. I thought to myself: There is such a striking expression
of frankness in his face. Another illusion gone! I hope you won't think I am offended, if I
say a bold word. I am only a young girl, to be sure; but I am not quite such a fool as you
take me for. Do you really think I don't know that Miss Jillgall has been telling you everything
that is bad about me; putting every mistake that I have made, every fault that I have committed,
in the worst possible point of view? And you have listened to her--quite naturally! And you
are prejudiced, strongly prejudiced, against me--what else could you be, under the circumstances?
I don't complain; I have purposely kept out of your way, and out of Miss Jillgall's way; in
short, I have afforded you every facility, as the prospectuses say. I only want to know if
my turn has come at last. Once more, have I given you time enough, and opportunities enough?"

"A great deal more than enough."

"Do you mean that you have made up your mind about me without stopping to think?"

"That is exactly what I mean. An act of treachery, Miss Helena, is an act of treachery; no
honest person need hesitate to condemn it. I am sorry you sent for me."

I got up to go. With an ironical gesture of remonstrance, she signed to me to sit down again.

"Must I remind you, dear sir, of our famous native virtue? Fair play is surely due to a young
person who has nobody to take her part. You talked of treachery just how. I deny the treachery.
Please give me a hearing."

I returned to my chair.

"Or would you prefer waiting," she went out, "till my sister comes here later in the day, and
continues what Miss Jillgall has begun, with the great advantage of being young and nice-looking?"

When the female mind gets into this state, no wise man answers the female questions.

"Am I to take silence as meaning Go on?" Miss Helena inquired.

I begged her to interpret my silence in the sense most agreeable to herself.

This naturally encouraged her. She made a proposal:

"Do you mind changing places, sir?"

"Just as you like, Miss Helena."

We changed chairs; the light now fell full on her face. Had she deliberately challenged me
to look into her secret mind if I could? Anything like the stark insensibility of that young
girl to every refinement of feeling, to every becoming doubt of herself, to every customary
timidity of her age and sex in the presence of a man who had not disguised his unfavorable
opinion of her, I never met with in all my experience of the world and of women.

"I wish to be quite mistress of myself," she explained; "your face, for some reason which I
really don't know, irritates me. The fact is, I have great pride in keeping my temper. Please
make allowances. Now about Miss Jillgall. I suppose she told you how my sister first met with
Philip Dunboyne?" The men looked at each other and after the fire.

Despite the appetizing banquet before them, thought it fell again into despondency Daniel the
drugstore, when the plaintive voice of the old, high incautiously
came until the meeting in a sufficiently clear to be heard.

- In
this tea on the right ... It is quite true ... Of course they are.

A crew of drunks and bums! ... and that Frederick Bullen is the worst. Do not have opinion
for coming here, having a sick home and without our provision of any kind? ... I know what I
said ... Bullen, I said, is that you are drunk or crazy to think such a thing? ... What about Conrad?
How could ocurrírsete turn my house into a field Agramante taking my sick child? Is that wanted
to come, I say. Here's what to expect from this rabble the Bar

Homeric laughter followed this unfortunate event.

At this point, whether it was heard laughing in the kitchen, or the angry old companion had
exhausted all other modes of expressing his contempt and indignation,
the fact was that a back door closed loudly.

All remained in suspense until the reappearance of old, happily ignoring the cause the latest outbreak
of laughter and smiling hypocritically.

- My wife had the idea to spend some time with Mrs. Mac Fadden - said
by way of explanation and casually, to take a seat among the guests.

And, strange to say, it took this incident to alleviate adverse pregnancy heading began to feel, and
their natural audacity recovered with the return of the host.

Do not try to tell jokes Christmas banquet.

Suffice it to say that the conversation was characterized by intellectual
excitement, the wary respect, the meticulous delicacy rhetorical precision
and the same logical and coherent discourse that distinguish these
manly meetings and in most civilized places where there is the finest
social intercourse.

No one glass broke because you have not, nor needlessly spilled liquor
by the ground or on the table, by the scarcity of that article.

It would almost midnight when the party was interrupted.

- You must keep quiet - said Fred, raising his hand.

It was the querulous voice of Johnny, from his bedroom immediately.

- Oh, Father!

The old man rose hurriedly introduced in the sickroom. Soon reappeared.

- Rheumatism makes him hard - he said - and he needs some friction.

Took from the table the jug of liquor and shook it.

I was completely emptied.

Bullen Federico hojadelata left his cup with a forced laugh. The others
followed suit.

The old man considered the most animated content and said:

- I think there's enough. Wait a moment, back soon.

And he went back into the little room, taking a flannel shirt and old brandy.

As the door was ajar, distinctly heard the following dialogue:

- Tell me, my son, where it hurts most?

- It hurts everything.

Ora here and down there now, but is stronger from here to here. Run, father Scrub hard.

And the silence seemed to indicate a lively friction. So Johnny said:

- Do you spend a good time out there, father?

- Yes, my son.

- Is it Christmas morning, right?

- Yes, my son. How do you feel now?

- Best, rub a little lower.

What is Christmas? Tell me why is this party?

- Oh, it's a day! ...

Here, apparently overcame the pain that childlike curiosity, since
there was a silent interval during which the old man continued rubbing.

Soon, Johnny continued:

- Mother says that everywhere but here, all things are given each
other for the day.

Says there is a man who called St. Nicholas, see?

But not a target, but a Chinese species, which come down the chimney the night before Christmas,
leaving things to children like myself who have been careful to leave
his boots there.

That ... that's what I wanted to do believe ... Come, father, where
are you rubbing?

You're just one kilometer from the site ... Tell me no invented this
for us tease you and me?

... Do not rub there ... Answers.

In the stillness of the night that seemed to hover over the house,
he clearly heard the buzz of the nearby pine trees as wind harps have
been tainted by the wind.

- Come on, do not be like the father, because
soon I'm gonna be good.

What are those men out there?

The old man opened the door and looked absently.

The men were sitting in good company, with a few pieces of silver on table and a thin chamois
bag in her hands.

- They are putting together ... a game.

And get by - Juanito answered and returned to their friction.

- I'd like to hand and make money - Juanito said reflectively, after a short silence.

For all comfort, the old man repeated what was obviously for him eternal
chorus is say that if Johnny would wait until which would give the
seam in the mine, would have much money, and would be very rich.

-
Yes - Juanito said - but can not find it.

Moreover, giving him or me to win, is almost same. At the end of the day, it is just luck. But it is
very strange as Christmas, is not right?

Why call it Christmas?

Be instinctive deference to the concerns of its guests, whether by
a vague sense of inconsistency, the response of the old one was so
low that it was wedged between the walls Room.

- Yes - said Johnny,
with interest and some declined .-- I have already talked about him
enough, father, no I do, not nearly, as much damage as before.

Now along with the blanket cover me and - muttering added under clothing
- sit beside me, until I fall asleep.

Do you hear?

And he composed to rest, but not before taking a hand off the blanket
and grab tightly his father by the sleeve in order to mock him not
in their legitimate demands.

The old man waited patiently for several minutes.

The unusual quiet of the house excited his curiosity and detached
by hand without rising, cautiously opened the door and peered into
the room.

With great surprise, he saw dark and empty.

But at that instant a log that was smoking in the home was broken,
and in light of its flare Federico saw Bullen sitting by the muffled
tailings.

- Hello!

Federico started, stood up and walked toward him, half staggering.

- Do the companions where they went? - Said the old man.

- Upon return
here.

Would have come to take a little walk.

I am waiting. What are you looking so intently, man? - Said with forced laughter - are you
going to believe I'm drunk?

Having been spared the old man could fancy, it's eyes were moist Federico and his face like a tomato.

Made
himself a little lazy, and returned to the fireplace. Yawned, desperezose, buttoned his coat,
and he laughed:

- The wine is not as abundant as it goes, man. Do not get up - he went on, when the old made
a motion to rid your sleeve Juanito hand .-- Do not fulfilled.

You where you stand there, I'll instantly. They're here.

Knocked softly at the door.

Bullen Federico Abriola, with a wave goodbye to the old and disappeared.

The old man would have continued were it not for the hand that stopped
him strongly inert yet, no be easy to discard it.

It was small, weak and skinny, but maybe for being small, weak and emaciated yielded to pressure
and further approaching the chair to the bed, leaned over her head,
surprising him sleep at this attitude.

The room wavered and vanished before his eyes, reappeared, vanished
again, darkened and let him sleep at all.

Meanwhile, Federico Bullen closed the door, and joined his comrades.

- Are you ready? - Conrad said.

- Ready! - Federico said, - what
time is it?

- The one - said, - can you?

Are almost fifty miles round trip.

- It seems to me - briefly Federico said .-- Is the horse here?

- Bill and Jaime have it already in the pine forest.

- Well, that saved a moment.

He turned and walked gingerly back into the house.

Guided by the dim light of the candle and cushioned running fire,
noted that the door the little room was open and went to her toes.

The old cast was snoring in his chair, legs outstretched, head back
and hat pulled down over his eyebrows.

Beside him, on a narrow wooden bed, lay wrapped closely as Juanito mummy in the blanket that covered
her all but a portion of the front and a little hand livid and stretched that struggled in
vain to enter.

Bullen Fred took a step, hesitated and looked over his shoulder the
empty room.

Most profound silence reigned.

With sudden resolution leaned over the sleeping boy with both hands spreading his great whiskers.

But
at the moment to do so, a mischievous air blast stalking him, turned in a whirlwind the chimney
down, reviving the live firing home and clarity, from which he fled
Federico and scared.

His companions were already waiting in the pines.

Two of them were fighting to hold in the darkness a strange warp,
which in Federico as he approached, was outlining her figure.

It was the mare.

The quadruped had not, in fact, pretty picture.

Nothing remarkable offering from its blunt snout to its rump raised,
and from his arched spine, concealed by the ragged and stiff Machill
Mexican Saddle up his thick, straight and bony legs, there was a single
line of grace and noble aspect that distinguishes your species.

With the white half-blind eyes, but evil, his lower lip hanging, and
his monstrous color, was unable to arouse the slightest aesthetic
sense.

- Well - said Conrad - careful with the shoes, boys, up!

Eye with no descuidarte foremost in grasping the mane, and looks to grab then the other bracket.
Arriba!

Hastily mounted the rider kicked solipeds battling, they parted with precipitation viewers and
flew in a circle shaking horseshoes, earth to tremble animal jumps. Finally, the spurs and departed
sounded Jovita. Federico, in darkness, shouted

- Good going!

- When you return do not take the low road, unless the time is pressing.

Do not stop the down the hill! At six we wait at the ford. Underway. Hop! Adelante!

And sparkled the stones, the gravel crunched loudly Frederick road and plunged into darkness.

* * * * * * *

Oh, Muse! sings, the cavalcade of Frederick Bullen!

Oh, Muses, come to my help to sing the chivalrous men, the sacred company, the deeds, the clay of
the louts scoundrels, the ride terrible and fearful dangers Flower Bar Samson! Ah, my muse! Scornful
you! ... Nothing like this animal and its ragged coceador rider,
and strength is follow me in simple prose.

It was two, barely reached Rattlesnake-Hill, and by the interval had
Jovita gala of all his vices, and brought out all his skills.

Three times he stumbled. Twice he raised his snout blunt straight with the reins, and resisting
the brake and the spur, ran madly through the fields and crops.

Twice they put hands, and fell back, and twice had to Federico agile use all their wits and good
fortune to regain his seat.

And a mile ahead, at the foot of a long hill, was Rattlesnake-Creek.

Federico knew there awaited capital test of your ability, if he wanted
to reach the end of their journey.

He clenched his teeth, fitted her knees on the sides of the mare
and changed their tactic of defense in a strong offensive.

Jovita excited and angry, began the descent of the hill.

The artificial Federico stop pretending to repression manifests, and lied to cries of fear.

Needless to add that Jovita then began spiraling career. Nor is it necessary to set here the time spent
on the decline, is inscribed in the annals of Bar Samson.

I'll just say that after a while, it seemed to Frederick that mud
from splashing -flooded banks of Rattlesnake Creek.

According to the plans of Frederick, the thrust had acquired was beyond
the margin and having it on purpose to a great leap, were released
in the middle of the rushing stream River.

A few moments of fighting, kicking and swimming, and Frederick breathed loudly, after winning
the opposite bank.

The road from Rattlesnake Creek to-Red-Mountain was pretty good.

Either because the en-Rattlesnake Creek had tempered his evil burning,
or because the art led Frederick would have demonstrated the superior
wickedness of her rider, Jovita and not waste their energy surplus
in vain whims, and seemed to have become a serious solemnity.

Once only sews to the hind legs, but it was by force of habit, another Once trembled, but it was
a damn old to be brought on the road with a monumental basket on her head.

Pits, mounds of gravel, chunks of fresh emerging planted grass, flew
under its infused legs seemed strange force.

He began to wheeze, once or twice she coughed slightly, but decreased
their strength or speed of his career.

In the three had spent the Red-Mountain and began the descent towards the plain.

Ten minutes later, the driver of the rapid diligence Pioneer was shot
and left behind by a "man on a pinto horse" in the words of the driver.

At

half past three Federico rose in his stirrups and cried out.

The torn clouds shone through the stars and in front of him, beyond
the plain stood two needles, two flagpoles and a silhouette of black
objects staggered.

Fred shook his spurs and swung his Riata.

Jovita rushed, and a moment later entered the race in Tuttleville,
and stopped at the Place de la Fonda Nations.

What happened that night Tuttleville is not precisely part of the
story.

But not be too verbose I can say that when Jovita had passed into
the possession of sleepy groom, who soon shook him sleep with a pair
of kicks, Federico left with the innkeeper for a ride by the people
who slept silently.

The lights of a few taverns and gambling houses were still bright,
but avoid the temptation stopped before several closed shops, and
therefore repeatedly calling after screaming, managed to rise from
their beds and forcing owners to unlock the doors of their stores
and to expose their wares to the importunate visitors.

At some points we could not get rid of some cursing, but most of the
times interest or necessity were complacent, and ending the interview
more cordial.

It was three when he finished the route, and a small waterproof rubber
bag, tied with straps to his back, Frederick returned to the inn.

But there he lurked Beauty. Beauty, charm and rich opulent dress, persuasive in speaking and
Spanish in accent.

In vain she repeated the invitation of the Excelsior.

The son of the mountains refused to Beauty boldly, not without a slight
mitigation smile and his last gold coin.

Reassembled later, and made his way down the dismal road, and then the plain always grim. Soon
the black line of houses, water and the flagpole were lost in the
distance behind him, as if the earth had swallowed.

The weather had subsided. The air was sharp and cold, the silhouettes
of nearby landmarks and perceived, was five and a half when Fred reached
the Crossroads Church State on the road.

In order to avoid the steep
slope had taken a longer and more roundabout, in which viscous mud
Jovita sank up to his ears at every turn.

It was not very good preparation
for a serious climb of five miles, but he attacked Jovita his usual,
blind and impetuous rage, and half an hour later they reached the
wide plain Rattlesnake-Creek leads to: thirty minutes, and reached
the goal.

Federico slightly dropped the reins on the mare's neck,
excitola whistle, and hummed a song.

Jovita was alarmed suddenly,
and sprang to have dismantled an Arab.

Clinging to the reins, was
a man who had jumped from the ditch and at the same time stood before
him and the way a horse and a rider in the dark.

- Loosen your bag,
you scoundrel! - Said in a loud command, with the second ghost blasphemy.

Federico
felt the mare tremble beneath him as if he were to fall collapsed.

He
knew what this meant, and prepared.

- Go away, Simon, I know, damn
bandit or see me through ...

He left the sentence unfinished.

The
mare lifted legs in the air with a terrible jump, shaking the person's
bite he had caught and unloaded their deadly malevolence against the
obstacle holder.

Blasphemy tore the air, heard a pistol shot, horse
and highwayman rolled on the ground and the next moment Jovita was
a hundred yards of that dismal place.

But the rider's right arm,
shattered by a bullet, hung inert at his side. Without diminishing
speed changed the reins to his left hand.

Some moments later was
compelled to stop and tighten the girth, which badly insured stupidly
could achieve what it had achieved the danger or attack.

This operation
required several minutes of supreme anguish.

However, not feared
persecution. Looking at the sky, he saw the star of the east grew
pale, and that the distant summits, lost their ghostly whiteness,
and highlighted with dark ink a sky increasingly Argentina. The day
is coming.

Making a heroic effort and completely absorbed in one
idea, he forgot his pain wound, and mounting again ran-Rattlesnake
Creek.

But Jovita's breath was ragged and Frederick hesitated in
the chair and the sky now completely cleared.

- Adelante! Run, Jovita!
Oh, day, if I could stop you with one hand!

In the last few steps
and felt a ringing in his ears.

The rider's arm bled more and more
...

When crossing the road under the hill, I was dazzled and disappeared
and did not recognize the ground she walked on.

Had he taken the
wrong way or was that "Rattlesnake Creek?

Federico was on the right
path.

But the uproar stream some hours before had waded, was flooded,
and water invaded neighboring fields, so that stood then as fast and
compelling river between him and Rattlesnake-Hill.

For the first
time that night, Federico felt a heavy heart.

All ranged in their
eyes, and the river, the mountains and the early dawn revolved around
breakneck speed.

Then the closed, concentrating on himself to regain
consciousness was beginning to falter. 

In that brief interval, by
some fantastic mental process, the little room of Bar Samson and the
group of father and son slept, came into view.

Suddenly his eyes
flew open again, threw his coat, gun, boots and the same chair, strongly
tied behind his back the beautiful mess, with bare knees pressed sides
Jovita, and lying on the back of the animal's prodded into the current.

A
cry rose from the opposite bank, while the head of a man and a horse
were displayed for a few moments on the running battle to be washed
after out of the river, amidst uprooted trees and viscous mass of
mud.

* * * * * * *

The fire was extinguished at home. The candle
inside the room turns, and the door gave a loud knock.

The old man
awoke.

Hastily drew back the bolt, but with a cry recoiled and broken
choreante figure hesitated in the doorway.

- Federico!

- Silence!
Does this sound now?

- No, "but ... Federico?

- Shut up, you animal!
Bring me some brandy, alive.

Federico did not remember, apparently,
the scene that night, as the old flew in his search and returned with
... an empty bottle.

If his forces had been allowed, Federico had
blasphemed.

He hesitated, and grasping the door handle, called a
signal to the old while reassuring the bulk of the back.

- There
is something here in this mess for Juanito. Take it away. To me it's
impossible.

Full of confusion, the old mess and colocolo unleashed
against poor Federico was fainting.

- Open it, then!

Obeyed with
trembling fingers.

Contained only a few poor toys, fairly cheap and
crude, but shiny paint and tinsel. Needless to say, all traces are
printed on the odyssey that had followed.

Indeed, one of them was
broken, another irreparably damaged by water, and the latter a bloodstain
spreading his fateful boundary.

- Do not look like much, really -
"stammered Federico .-- But sadly the best we have done. Receive them,
old, and attach them in your shoes, and say ... tell ... say, you
know ... circles my head.

The old man took him in her arms.

- Tell
him - Federico said, smiling faintly, - tell him that St. Nicholas
has come.

And so, stained with mud and blood, almost naked, shocked,
rags, one arm hanging lifeless at his side, arrived at Bar San Nicolas
Sanson, and fell fainting on the threshold a miserable home.

The
sun stretched across the sky and its golden rays; elevose sweetly,
and with ineffable love pink ink painted the distant peaks. A mark with a
blue pencil, against one of the advertisements, attracted my attention. I read these lines:

"On the 10th inst., the wife of the Rev. Abel Gracedieu, of a daughter."

The second newspaper bore a later date, and contained nothing that interested me. I naturally
assumed that the advertisement in the Times had been inserted at the desire of Mrs. Gracedieu;
and, after all that I had heard, there was little difficulty in attributing the curious omission
of the place in which the child had been born to the caution of her husband. If Mrs. Tenbruggen
(then Miss Chance) had happened to see the advertisement in the great London newspaper, Mr.
Gracedieu might yet have good reason to congratulate himself on his prudent method of providing
against mischievous curiosity.

I turned toward the bed and looked at him. His eyes were closed. Was he sleeping? Or was he
trying to remember what he had desired to say to me, when the demands which I made on his memory
had obliged him to wait for a later opportunity?

Either way, there was something that quickened my sympathies, in the spectacle of his helpless
repose. It suggested to me personal reasons for his anxieties, which he had not mentioned,
and which I had not thought of, up to this time. If the discovery that he dreaded took place,
his household would be broken up, and his position as pastor would suffer in the estimation
of the flock. His own daughter would refuse to live under the same roof with the daughter of
an infamous woman. Popular opinion, among his congregation, judging a man who had passed off
the child of other parents as his own, would find that man guilty of an act of deliberate deceit.

Still oppressed by reflections which pointed to the future in this discouraging way, I was
startled by a voice outside the door--a sweet, sad voice--saying, "May I come in?"

The Minister's eyes opened instantly: he raised himself in his bed.

"Eunice, at last!" he cried. "Let her in."

CHAPTER XXXIX. THE ADOPTED CHILD

I opened the door.

Eunice passed me with the suddenness almost of a flash of light. When I turned toward the bed,
her arms were round her father's neck. "Oh, poor papa, how ill you look!" Commonplace expressions
of fondness, and no more; but the tone gave them a charm that subdued me. Never had I felt
so indulgent toward Mr. Gracedieu's unreasonable fears as when I saw him in the embrace of
his adopted daughter. She had already reminded me of the bygone day when a bright little child
had sat on my knee and listened to the ticking of my watch.

The Minister gently lifted her head from his breast. "My darling," he said, "you don't see
my old friend. Love him, and look up to him, Eunice. He will be your friend, too, when I am gone."

She came to me and offered her cheek to be kissed. It was sadly pale, poor soul--and I could
guess why. But her heart was now full of her father. "Do you think he is seriously ill?" she
whispered. What I ought to have said I don't know. Her eyes, the sweetest, truest, loveliest
eyes I ever saw in a human face, were pleading with me. Let my enemies make the worst of it,
if they like--I did certainly lie. And if I deserved my punishment, I got it; the poor child
believed me! "Now I am happier," she said, gratefully. "Only to hear your voice seems to encourage
me. On our way here, Selina did nothing but talk of you. She told me I shouldn't have time
to feel afraid of the great man; he would make me fond of him directly. I said, 'Are you fond
of him?' She said, 'Madly in love with him, my dear.' My little friend really thinks you like
her, and is very proud of it. There are some people who call her ugly. I hope you don't agree
with them?"

I believe I should have lied again, if Mr. Gracedieu had not called me to the bedside.

"How does she strike you?" he whispered, eagerly. "Is it too soon to ask if she shows her age
in her face?"

"Neither in her face nor her figure," I answered: "it astonishes me that you can ever have
doubted it. No stranger, judging by personal appearance, could fail to make the mistake of
thinking Helena the oldest of the two."

He looked fondly at Eunice. "Her figure seems to bear out what you say," he went on. "Almost
childish, isn't it?"

I could not agree to that. Slim, supple, simply graceful in every movement, Eunice's figure,
in the charm of first youth, only waited its perfect development. Most men, looking at her
as she stood at the other end of the room with her back toward us, would have guessed her age
to be sixteen.

Finding that I failed to agree with him, Mr. Gracedieu's misgivings returned. "You speak very
confidently," he said, "considering that you have not seen the girls together. Think what a
dreadful blow it would be to me if you made a mistake."

I declared, with perfect sincerity, that there was no fear of a mistake. The bare idea of making
the proposed comparison was hateful to me. If Helena and I had happened to meet at that moment,
I should have turned away from her by instinct--she would have disturbed my impressions of Eunice.

The Minister signed to me to move a little nearer to him. "I must say it," he whispered, "and
I am afraid of her hearing me. Is there anything in her face that reminds you of her miserable
mother?"

I had hardly patience to answer the question: it was simply preposterous. Her hair was by many
shades darker than her mother's hair; her eyes were of a different color. There was an exquisite
tenderness and sincerity in their expression--made additionally beautiful, to my mind, by a
gentle, uncomplaining sadness. It was impossible even to think of the eyes of the murderess
when I looked at her child. Eunice's lower features, again, had none of her mother's regularity
of proportion. Her smile, simple and sweet, and soon passing away, was certainly not an inherited
smile on the maternal side. Whether she resembled her father, I was unable to conjecture--having
never seen him. The one thing certain was, that not the faintest trace, in feature or expression,
of Eunice's mother was to be seen in Eunice herself. Of the two girls, Helena--judging by something
in the color of her hair, and by something in the shade of her complexion--might possibly have
suggested, in those particulars only, a purely accidental resemblance to my terrible prisoner
of past times.

The revival of Mr. Gracedieu's spirits indicated a temporary change only, and was already beginning
to pass away. The eyes which had looked lovingly at Eunice began to look languidly now: his
head sank on the pillow with a sigh of weak content. "My pleasure has been almost too much
for me," he said. "Leave me for a while to rest, and get used to it."

Eunice kissed his forehead--and we left the room.

CHAPTER XL. THE BRUISED HEART.

When we stepped out on the landing, I observed that my companion paused. She looked at the
two flights of stairs below us before she descended them. It occurred to me that there must
be somebody in the house whom she was anxious to avoid.

Arrived at the lower hall, she paused again, and proposed in a whisper that we should go into
the garden. As we advanced along the backward division of the hall, I saw her eyes turn distrustfully
toward the door of the room in which Helena had received me. At last, my slow perceptions felt
with her and understood her. Eunice's sensitive nature recoiled from a chance meeting with
the wretch who had laid waste all that had once been happy and hopeful in that harmless young life.

"Will you come with me to the part of the garden that I am fondest of?" she asked.

I offered her my arm. She led me in silence to a rustic seat, placed under the shade of a mulberry
tree. I saw a change in her face as we sat down--a tender and beautiful change. At that moment
the girl's heart was far away from me. There was some association with this corner of the garden,
on which I felt that I must not intrude.

"I was once very happy here," she said. "When the time of the heartache came soon after, I
was afraid to look at the old tree and the bench under it. But that is all over now. I like
to remember the hours that were once dear to me, and to see the place that recalls them. Do
you know who I am thinking of? Don't be afraid of distressing me. I never cry now."

"My dear child, I have heard your sad story--but I can't trust myself to speak of it."

"Because you are so sorry for me?"

"No words can say how sorry I am!"

"But you are not angry with Philip?"

"Not angry! My poor dear, I am afraid to tell you how angry I am with him."

"Oh, no! You mustn't say that. If you wish to be kind to me--and I am sure you do wish it--don't
think bitterly of Philip."

When I remember that the first feeling she roused in me was nothing worthier of a professing
Christian than astonishment, I drop in my own estimation to the level of a savage. "Do you
really mean," I was base enough to ask, "that you have forgiven him?"

She said, gently: "How could I help forgiving him?"

The man who could have been blessed with such love as this, and who could have cast it away
from him, can have been nothing but an idiot. On that ground--though I dared not confess it
to Eunice--I forgave him, too.

"Do I surprise you?" she asked simply. "Perhaps love will bear any humiliation. Or perhaps
I am only a poor weak creature. You don't know what a comfort it was to me to keep the few
letters that I received from Philip. When I heard that he had gone away, I gave his letters
the kiss that bade him good-by. That was the time, I think, when my poor bruised heart got
used to the pain; I began to feel that there was one consolation still left for me--I might
end in forgiving him. Why do I tell you all this? I think you must have bewitched me. Is this
really the first time I have seen you?"

She put her little trembling hand into mine; I lifted it to my lips, and kissed it. Sorely
was I tempted to own that I had pitied and loved her in her infancy. It was almost on my lips
to say: "I remember you an easily-pleased little creature, amusing yourself with the broken
toys which were once the playthings of my own children." I believe I should have said it, if
I could have trusted myself to speak composedly to her. This was not to be done. Old as I was,
versed as I was in the hard knowledge of how to keep the mask on in the hour of need, this
was not to be done.

Still trying to understand that I was little better than a stranger to her, and still bent
on finding the secret of the sympathy that united us, Eunice put a strange question to me.

"When you were young yourself," she said, "did you know what it was to love, and to be loved--and
then to lose it all?"

It is not given to many men to marry the woman who has been the object of their first love.
My early life had been darkened by a sad story; never confided to any living creature; banished
resolutely from my own thoughts. For forty years past, that part of my buried self had lain
quiet in its grave--and the chance touch of an innocent hand had raised the dead, and set us
face to face again! Did I know what it was to love, and to be loved, and then to lose it all?
"Too well, my child; too well!"

That was all I could say to her. In the last days of my life, I shrank from speaking of it.
When I had first felt that calamity, and had felt it most keenly, I might have given an answer
worthier of me, and worthier of her.

She dropped my hand, and sat by me in silence, thinking. Had I--without meaning it, God knows!--had
I disappointed her?

"Did you expect me to tell my own sad story," I said, "as frankly and as trustfully as you
have told yours?"

"Oh, don't think that! I know what an effort it was to you to answer me at all. Yes, indeed!
I wonder whether I may ask something. The sorrow you have just told me of is not the only one--is
it? You have had other troubles?"

"Many of them."

"There are times," she went on, "when one can't help thinking of one's own miserable self.
I try to be cheerful, but those times come now and then."

She stopped, and looked at me with a pale fear confessing itself in her face.

"You know who Selina is?" she resumed. "My friend! The only friend I had, till you came here."

I guessed that she was speaking of the quaint, kindly little woman, whose ugly surname had
been hitherto the only name known to me.

"Selina has, I daresay, told you that I have been ill," she continued, "and that I am staying
in the country for the benefit of my health."

It was plain that she had something to say to me, far more important than this, and that she
was dwelling on trifles to gain time and courage. Hoping to help her, I dwelt on trifles, too;
asking commonplace questions about the part of the country in which she was staying. She answered
absently--then, little by little, impatiently. The one poor proof of kindness that I could
offer, now, was to say no more.

"Do you know what a strange creature I am?" she broke out. "Shall I make you angry with me?
or shall I make you laugh at me? What I have shrunk from confessing to Selina--what I dare
not confess to my father--I must, and will, confess to You."

There was a look of horror in her face that alarmed me. I drew her to me so that she could
rest her head on my shoulder. My own agitation threatened to get the better of me. For the
first time since I had seen this sweet girl, I found myself thinking of the blood that ran
in her veins, and of the nature of the mother who had borne her.

"Did you notice how I behaved upstairs?" she said. "I mean when we left my father, and came
out on the landing."

It was easily recollected; I begged her to go on.

"Before I went downstairs," she proceeded, "you saw me look and listen. Did you think I was
afraid of meeting some person? and did you guess who it was I wanted to avoid?"

"I guessed that--and I understood you."

"No! You are not wicked enough to understand me. Will you do me a favor? I want you to look at me."

It was said seriously. She lifted her head for a moment, so that I could examine her face.

"Do you see anything," she asked, "which makes you fear that I am not in my right mind?"

"Good God! how can you ask such a horrible question?"

She laid her head back on my shoulder with a sad little sigh of resignation. "I ought to have
known better," she said; "there is no such easy way out of it as that. Tell me--is there one
kind of wickedness more deceitful than another? Can it be hid in a person for years together,
and show itself when a time of suffering--no; I mean when a sense of injury comes? Did you
ever see that, when you were master in the prison?"

I had seen it--and, after a moment's doubt, I said I had seen it.

"Did you pity those poor wretches?"

"Certainly! They deserved pity."

"I am one of them!" she said. "Pity me. If Helena looks at me--if Helena speaks to me--if I
only see Helena by accident--do you know what she does? She tempts me! Tempts me to do dreadful
things! Tempts me--" The poor child threw her arms round my neck, and whispered the next fatal
words in my ear.

The mother! Prepared as I was for the accursed discovery, the horror of it shook me.

She left me, and started to her feet. The inherited energy showed itself in furious protest
against the inherited evil. "What does it mean?" she cried. "I'll submit to anything. I'll
bear my hard lot patiently, if you will only tell me what it means. Where does this horrid
transformation of me out of myself come from? Look at my good father. In all this world there
is no man so perfect as he is. And oh, how he has taught me! there isn't a single good thing
that I have not learned from him since I was a little child. Did you ever hear him speak of
my mother? You must have heard him. My mother was an angel. I could never be worthy of her
at my best--but I have tried! I have tried! The wickedest girl in the world doesn't have worse
thoughts than the thoughts that have come to me. Since when? Since Helena--oh, how can I call
her by her name as if I still loved her? Since my sister--can she be my sister, I ask myself
sometimes! Since my enemy--there's the word for her--since my enemy took Philip away from me.
What does it mean? Then came in
his boat, sailed a lot, and finally landed on the coast of his native
country.

But what had happened during his absence? Where was his father's hut? What had been in the village
who used to live? The mountains, indeed, were there as before, but the trees had been cut.
The brook that ran beside his father's hut, was running, but there
were no women to wash clothes as before.

Portentous was that everything had changed in such a way in just
three years.

He was right then to have a man nearby and asked Urashima:

- Can you tell me, I pray thee, where the hut Urashima, who was here before?

The man replied:

- Urashima? How to ask for him if he disappeared four hundred years ago fishing? His father,
mother, siblings, grandchildren of his brothers, has died centuries. That is a ancient history. You
must be crazy when you're still such a hut. For hundreds of years was rubble.

Suddenly came to mind Urashima the idea that the Dragon Palace, across the seas, with its walls
of coral and ruby ​​fruit, and golden dragons with tails had to be
part of fairyland, where a day is longer than a year in this world,
and their three years, accompanied by the Princess, had been four.

Was of no help, then stay and in his homeland, where all your relatives
and friends had died, and where even his own village had disappeared.

With great haste and recklessness in Urashima then thought back to his wife, overseas. But
what was the direction to be followed? Who is mark?

- Perhaps, he mused, if I open the box she gave me, discover the secret
and the way I want.

So he disobeyed the orders he had given the princess, or not remembered at the time, I was
so upset.

Whatever it was, Urashima opened the box.

And what do you think he left it? Came a white cloud that floated over the sea. He shouted in
vain for the cloud to stop. Then he remembered with sadness that his wife had told him that,
after opening the case, there would no longer have to come back through
the palace of the god of the sea.

Soon he could not Urashima or scream, or run towards the beach, in search of the cloud.

Suddenly, her hair turned white as snow, his face covered with wrinkles, and their backs bowed
like a man decrepit. Then he missed his breath. And at last he fell dead on the beach.

Poor Urashima! Died for reckless and disobedient. If I had done as he was told the Princess,
had lived more than a thousand years.

Tell me you do not like to go see the Dragon Palace, across the sea, where the god lives and reigns
as king of dragons, turtles and fish, where the trees are emerald leaves and jewels for fruit,
and where the scales are silver and gold tails?

RAVAGES OF LOVE AND JEALOUSY

TRAGIC DRAMA

THIS drama, so too tragic, devoid of any literary worth, but is published here to satisfy the
curiosity of a few people who wanted to see him when he was represented and did not succeed
because of the smallness of the room that served as a theater. The
author wrote The drama at the request of the graceful and unobtrusive
Miss María de Valenzuela, who prescribed certain conditions that should
hold his work. The drama was not to last longer fourteen or fifteen
minutes, the action had to be as awful as fast, and, except for parades
and dumb characters, they only appear in the six partners, three male
and three females, all of whom had died of disasters and violent death
in the same scene. As frightening outcome was not to be due, or plague,
or famine, or fire heaven, nor any other supernatural means, but everything
had to happen simply because gruesome frenzy effect that love and
jealousy in the soul of a passionate woman. I believe I have fulfilled
the above conditions imposed Miss me then I am proud. I recognize,
however, that my play had not been so lauded and celebrated not for
the merit of the actors and actresses that made me the honor to represent
you. These were the nice lady Dona Rosario Conde Luque Rascon, the
two Miss Ms Mary and Isabella de Valenzuela and D. Alfonso Danvila,
D. Javier de la Pezuela and D. Silvio Vallin. They, not the reduced
and poor poet's inspiration, success must astounding that won the
drama, in the beautiful theater that Mr. D. Fernando Bauer improvised
in home, and whose magnificent Moorish décor beautifully painted Mr.
Conde del Real Appreciation. Her quickened breathing was all that told me of the effort she
was making to preserve her self-control. Entirely free from unbecoming signs of hurry and agitation,
Helena opened her business with me by means of an apology.

"Pray excuse me for disturbing you. I am obliged to leave the house on one of my tiresome domestic
errands. If you will kindly permit it, I wish to express, before I go, my very sincere regret
for what I was rude enough to say, when I last had the honor of seeing you. May I hope to be
forgiven? How-do-you-do, Eunice? Have you enjoyed your holiday in the country?"

Eunice neither moved nor answered. Having some doubt of what might happen if the two girls
remained together, I proposed to Helena to leave the garden and to let me hear what she had
to say, in the house.

"Quite needless," she replied; "I shall not detain you for more than a minute. Please look
at this."

She offered to me the portfolio that she had been carrying, and pointed to a morsel of paper
attached to it, which contained this inscription:

"Philip's Letters To Me. Private. Helena Gracedieu."

"I have a favor to ask," she said, "and a proof of confidence in you to offer. Will you be
so good as to look over what you find in my portfolio? I am unwilling to give up the hopes
that I had founded on our interview, when I asked for it. The letters will, I venture to think,
plead my cause more convincingly than I was able to plead it for myself. I wish to forget what
passed between us, to the last word. To the last word," she repeated emphatically--with a look
which sufficiently informed me that I had not been betrayed to her father yet. "Will you indulge
me?" she asked, and offered her portfolio for the second time.

A more impudent bargain could not well have been proposed to me.

I was to read, and to be favorably impressed by, Mr. Philip Dunboyne's letters; and Miss Helena
was to say nothing of that unlucky slip of the tongue, relating to her mother, which she had
discovered to be a serious act of self-betrayal--thanks to my confusion at the time. If I had
not thought of Eunice, and of the desolate and loveless life to which the poor girl was so
patiently resigned, I should have refused to read Miss Gracedieu's love-letters.

But, as things were, I was influenced by the hope (innocently encouraged by Eunice herself)
that Philip Dunboyne might not be so wholly unworthy of the sweet girl whom he had injured
as I had hitherto been too hastily disposed to believe. To act on this view with the purpose
of promoting a reconciliation was impossible, unless I had the means of forming a correct estimate
of the man's character. It seemed to me that I had found the means. A fair chance of putting
his sincerity to a trustworthy test, was surely offered by the letters (the confidential letters)
which I had been requested to read. To feel this as strongly as I felt it, brought me at once
to a decision. I consented to take the portfolio--on my own conditions.

"Understand, Miss Helena," I said, "that I make no promises. I reserve my own opinion, and
my own right of action."

"I am not afraid of your opinions or your actions," she answered confidently, "if you will
only read the letters. In the meantime, let me relieve my sister, there, of my presence. I
hope you will soon recover, Eunice, in the country air."

If the object of the wretch was to exasperate her victim, she had completely failed. Eunice
remained as still as a statue. To all appearance, she had not even heard what had been said
to her. Helena looked at me, and touched her forehead with a significant smile. "Sad, isn't
it?" she said--and bowed, and went briskly away on her household errand.

We were alone again.

Still, Eunice never moved. I spoke to her, and produced no impression. Beginning to feel alarmed,
I tried the effect of touching her. With a wild cry, she started into a state of animation.
Almost at the same moment, she weakly swayed to and fro as if the pleasant breeze in the garden
moved her at its will, like the flowers. I held her up, and led her to the seat.

"There is nothing to be afraid of," I said. "She has gone."

Eunice's eyes rested on me in vacant surprise. "How do you know?" she asked. "I hear her; but
I never see her. Do you see her?"

"My dear child! of what person are you speaking?"

She answered: "Of no person. I am speaking of a Voice that whispers and tempts me, when Helena
is near."

"What voice, Eunice?"

"The whispering Voice. It said to me, 'I am your mother;' it called me Daughter when I first
heard it. My father speaks of my mother, the angel. That good spirit has never come to me from
the better world. It is a mock-mother who comes to me--some spirit of evil. Listen to this.
I was awake in my bed. In the dark I heard the mock-mother whispering, close at my ear. But
I heard her again, just now. She whispered to me when Helena was standing there--where you
are standing. She freezes the life in me. Did she freeze the life in you? Did you hear her
tempting me? Don't speak of it, if you did. Oh, not a word! not a word!"

A man who has governed a prison may say with Macbeth, "I have supped full with horrors." Hardened
as I was--or ought to have been--the effect of what I had just heard turned me cold. If I had
not known it to be absolutely impossible, I might have believed that the crime and the death
of the murderess were known to Eunice, as being the crime and the death of her mother, and
that the horrid discovery had turned her brain. This was simply impossible. What did it mean?
Good God! what did it mean?

My sense of my own helplessness was the first sense in me that recovered. I thought of Eunice's
devoted little friend. A woman's sympathy seemed to be needed now. I rose to lead the way out
of the garden.

"Selina will think we are lost," I said. "Let us go and find Selina."

"Not for the world," she cried.

"Why not?"

"Because I don't feel sure of myself. I might tell Selina something which she must never know;
I should be so sorry to frighten her. Let me stop here with you."

I resumed my place at her side.

"Let me take your hand."

I gave her my hand. What composing influence this simple act may, or may not, have exercised,
it is impossible to say. She was quiet, she was silent. After an interval, I heard her breathe
a long-drawn sigh of relief.

"I am afraid I have surprised you," she said. "Helena brings the dreadful time back to me--"
She stopped and shuddered.

"Don't speak of Helena, my dear."

"But I am afraid you will think--because I have said strange things--that I have been talking
at random," she insisted. "The doctor will say that, if you meet with him. He believes I am
deluded by a dream. I tried to think so myself. It was of no use; I am quite sure he is wrong."

I privately determined to watch for the doctor's arrival, and to consult with him. Eunice went on:

"I have the story of a terrible night to tell you; but I haven't the courage to tell it now.
Why shouldn't you come back with me to the place that I am staying at? A pleasant farm-house,
and such kind people. You might read the account of that night in my journal. I shall not regret
the misery of having written it, if it helps you to find out how this hateful second self of
mine has come to me. Hush! I want to ask you something. Do you think Helena is in the house?"

"No--she has gone out."

"Did she say that herself? Are you sure?"

"Quite sure."

She decided on going back to the farm, while Helena was out of the way. We left the garden
together. For the first time, my companion noticed the portfolio. I happened to be carrying
it in the hand that was nearest to her, as she walked by my side.

"Where did you get that?" she asked.

It was needless to reply in words. My hesitation spoke for me.

"Carry it in your other hand," she said--"the hand that's furthest away from me. I don't want
to see it! Do you mind waiting a moment while I find Selina? You will go to the farm with us,
won't you?"

I had to look over the letters, in Eunice's own interests; and I begged her to let me defer
my visit to the farm until the next day. She consented, after making me promise to keep my
appointment. It was of some importance to her, she told me, that I should make acquaintance
with the farmer and his wife and children, and tell her how I liked them. Her plans for the
future depended on what those good people might be willing to do. When she had recovered her
health, it was impossible for her to go home again while Helena remained in the house. She
had resolved to earn her own living, if she could get employment as a governess. The farmer's
children liked her; she had already helped their mother in teaching them; and there was reason
to hope that their father would see his way to employing her permanently. His house offered
the great advantage of being near enough to the town to enable her to hear news of the Minister's
progress toward recovery, and to see him herself when safe opportunities offered, from time
to time. As for her salary, what did she care about money? Anything would be acceptable, if
the good man would only realize her hopes for the future.

It was disheartening to hear that hope, at her age, began and ended within such narrow limits
as these. No prudent man would have tried to persuade her, as I now did, that the idea of reconciliation
offered the better hope of the two.

"Suppose I see Mr. Philip Dunboyne when I go back to London," I began, "what shall I say to him?"

"Say I have forgiven him."

"And suppose," I went on, "that the blame really rests, where you all believe it to rest, with
Helena. If that young man returns to you, truly ashamed of himself, truly penitent, will you--?"

She resolutely interrupted me: "No!"

"Oh, Eunice, you surely mean Yes?"

"I mean No!"

"Why?"

"Don't ask me! Good-by till to-morrow."

CHAPTER XLII. THE QUAINT PHILOSOPHER.

No person came to my room, and nothing happened to interrupt me while I was reading Mr. Philip
Dunboyne's letters.

One of them, let me say at once, produced a very disagreeable impression on me. I have unexpectedly
discovered Mrs. Tenbruggen--in a postscript. She is making a living as a Medical Rubber (or
Masseuse), and is in professional attendance on Mr. Dunboyne the elder. More of this, a little
further on.

Having gone through the whole collection of young Dunboyne's letters, I set myself to review
the differing conclusions which the correspondence had produced on my mind.

I call the papers submitted to me a correspondence, because the greater part of Philip's letters
exhibit notes in pencil, evidently added by Helena. These express, for the most part, the interpretation
which she had placed on passages that perplexed or displeased her; and they have, as Philip's
rejoinders show, been employed as materials when she wrote her replies.

On reflection, I find myself troubled by complexities and contradictions in the view presented
of this young man's character. To decide positively whether I can justify to myself and to
my regard for Eunice, an attempt to reunite the lovers, requires more time for consideration
than I can reasonably expect that Helena's patience will allow. Having a quiet hour or two
still before me, I have determined to make extracts from the letters for my own use; with the
intention of referring to them while I am still in doubt which way my decision ought to incline.
I shall present them here, to speak for themselves. Is there any objection to this? None that
I can see.

In the first place, those extracts have a value of their own. They add necessary information
to the present history of events.

In the second place, I am under no obligation to Mr. Gracedieu's daughter which forbids me
to make use of her portfolio. I told her that I only consented to receive it, under reserve
of my own right of action--and her assent to that stipulation was expressed in the clearest terms.

EXTRACTS FROM MR. PHILIP DUNBOYNE'S LETTERS.

First Extract.

You blame me, dear Helena, for not having paid proper attention to the questions put to me
in your last letter. I have only been waiting to make up my mind, before I replied.

First question: Do I think it advisable that you should write to my father? No, my dear; I
beg you will defer writing, until you hear from me again.

Second question: Considering that he is still a stranger to you, is there any harm in your
asking me what sort of man my father is? No harm, my sweet one; but, as you will presently
see, I am afraid you have addressed yourself to the wrong person.

My father is kind, in his own odd way--and learned, and rich--a more high-minded and honorable
man (as I have every reason to believe) doesn't live. But if you ask me which he prefers, his
books or his son, I hope I do him no injustice when I answer, his books. His reading and his
writing are obstacles between us which I have never been able to overcome. This is the more
to be regretted because he is charming, on the few occasions when I find him disengaged. If
you wish I knew more about my father, we are in complete agreement as usual--I wish, too.

But there is a dear friend of yours and mine, who is just the person we want to help us. Need
I say that I allude to Mrs. Staveley?

I called on her yesterday, not long after she had paid a visit to my father. Luck had favored
her. She arrived just at the time when hunger had obliged him to shut up his books, and ring
for something to eat. Mrs. Staveley secured a favorable reception with her customary tact and
delicacy. He had a fowl for his dinner. She knows his weakness of old; she volunteered to carve
it for him.

If I can only repeat what this clever woman told me of their talk, you will have a portrait
of Mr. Dunboyne the elder--not perhaps a highly-finished picture, but, as I hope and believe,
a good likeness.

Mrs. Staveley began by complaining to him of the conduct of his son. I had promised to write
to her, and I had never kept my word. She had reasons for being especially interested in my
plans and prospects, just then; knowing me to be attached (please take notice that I am quoting
her own language) to a charming friend of hers, whom I had first met at her house. To aggravate
the disappointment that I had inflicted, the young lady had neglected her, too. No letters,
no information. Perhaps my father would kindly enlighten her? Was the affair going on? or was
it broken off?

My father held out his plate and asked for the other wing of the fowl. "It isn't a bad one
for London," he said; "won't you have some yourself?"

"I don't seem to have interested you," Mrs. Staveley remarked.

"What did you expect me to be interested in?" my father inquired. "I was absorbed in the fowl.
Favor me by returning to the subject."

Mrs. Staveley admits that she answered this rather sharply: "The subject, sir, was your son's
admiration for a charming girl: one of the daughters of Mr. Gracedieu, the famous preacher."

My father is too well-bred to speak to a lady while his attention is absorbed by a fowl. He
finished the second wing, and then he asked if "Philip was engaged to be married."

"I am not quite sure," Mrs. Staveley confessed.

"Then, my dear friend, we will wait till we are sure."

"But, Mr. Dunboyne, there is really no need to wait. I suppose your son comes here, now and
then, to see you?"

"My son is most attentive. In course of time he will contrive to hit on the right hour for
his visit. At present, poor fellow, he interrupts me every day."

"Suppose he hits upon the right time to-morrow?"

"Yes?"

"You might ask him if he is engaged?"

"Pardon me. I think I might wait till Philip mentions it without asking."

"What an extraordinary man you are!"

"Oh, no, no--only a philosopher."

This tried Mrs. Staveley's temper. You know what a perfectly candid person our friend is. She
owned to me that she felt inclined to make herself disagreeable. "That's thrown away upon me,"
she said: "I don't know what a philosopher is."

Let me pause for a moment, dear Helena. I have inexcusably forgotten to speak of my father's
personal appearance. It won't take long. I need only notice one interesting feature which,
so to speak, lifts his face out of the common. He has an eloquent nose. Persons possessing
this rare advantage are blest with powers of expression not granted to their ordinary fellow-creatures.
My father's nose is a mine of information to friends familiarly acquainted with it. It changes
color like a modest young lady's cheek. It works flexibly from side to side like the rudder
of a ship. On the present occasion, Mrs. Staveley saw it shift toward the left-hand side of
his face. A sigh escaped the poor lady. Experience told her that my father was going to hold forth.

"You don't know what a philosopher is!" he repeated. "Be so kind as to look at me. I am a philosopher."

Mrs. Staveley bowed.

"And a philosopher, my charming friend, is a man who has discovered a system of life. Some
systems assert themselves in volumes--my system asserts itself in two words: Never think of
anything until you have first asked yourself if there is an absolute necessity for doing it,
at that particular moment. Thinking of things, when things needn't be thought of, is offering
an opportunity to Worry; and Worry is the favorite agent of Death when the destroyer handles
his work in a lingering way, and achieves premature results. Never look back, and never look
forward, as long as you can possibly help it. Looking back leads the way to sorrow. And looking
forward ends in the cruelest of all delusions: it encourages hope. The present time is the
precious time. Live for the passing day: the passing day is all that we can be sure of. You
suggested, just now, that I should ask my son if he was engaged to be married. How do we know
what wear and tear of your nervous texture I succeeded in saving when I said. 'Wait till Philip
mentions it without asking?' There is the personal application of my system. I have explained
it in my time to every woman on the list of my acquaintance, including the female servants.
Not one of them has rewarded me by adopting my system. How do you feel about it?"

Mrs. Staveley declined to tell me whether she had offered a bright example of gratitude to
the rest of the sex. When I asked why, she declared that it was my turn now to tell her what
I had been doing.

You will anticipate what followed. She objected to the mystery in which my prospects seemed
to be involved. In plain English, was I, or was I not, engaged to marry her dear Eunice? I
said, No. What else could I say? If I had told Mrs. Staveley the truth, when she insisted on
my explaining myself, she would have gone back to my father, and would have appealed to his
sense of justice to forbid our marriage. Finding me obstinately silent, she has decided on
writing to Eunice. So we parted. But don't be disheartened. On my way out of the house, I met
Mr. Staveley coming in, and had a little talk with him. He and his wife and his family are
going to the seaside, next week. Mrs. Staveley once out of our way, I can tell my father of
our engagement without any fear of consequences. If she writes to him, the moment he sees my
name mentioned, and finds violent language associated with it, he will hand the letter to me.
"Your business, Philip: don't interrupt me." He will say that, and go back to his books. There
is my father, painted to the life! Farewell, for the present.

.......

Remarks by H. G.--Philip's grace and gayety of style might be envied by any professional Author.
He amuses me, but he rouses my suspicion at the same time. This slippery lover of mine tells
me to defer writing to his father, and gives no reason for offering that strange advice to
the young lady who is soon to be a member of the family. Is this merely one more instance of
the weakness of his character? Or, now that he is away from my influence, is he beginning to
regret Eunice already?

Added by the Governor.--I too have my doubts. Is the flippant nonsense which Philip has written
inspired by the effervescent good spirits of a happy young man? Or is it assumed for a purpose?
In this latter case, I should gladly conclude that he was regarding his conduct to Eunice with
becoming emotions of sorrow and shame.

CHAPTER XLIII. THE MASTERFUL MASSEUSE.

My next quotations will suffer a process of abridgment. I intend them to present the substance
of three letters, reduced as follows:

Second Extract.

Weak as he may be, Mr. Philip Dunboyne shows (in his second letter) that he can feel resentment,
and that he can express his feelings, in replying to Miss Helena. He protests against suspicions
which he has not deserved. That he does sometimes think of Eunice he sees no reason to deny.
He is conscious of errors and misdeeds, which--traceable as they are to Helena's irresistible
fascinations--may perhaps be considered rather his misfortune than his fault. Be that as it
may, he does indeed feel anxious to hear good accounts of Eunice's health. If this honest avowal
excites her sister's jealousy, he will be disappointed in Helena for the first time.

His third letter shows that this exhibition of spirit has had its effect.

The imperious young lady regrets that she has hurt his feelings, and is rewarded for the apology
by receiving news of the most gratifying kind. Faithful Philip has told his father that he
is engaged to be married to Miss Helena Gracedieu, daughter of the celebrated Congregational
preacher--and so on, and so on. Has Mr. Dunboyne the elder expressed any objection to the young
lady? Certainly not! He knows nothing of the other engagement to Eunice; and he merely objects,
on principle, to looking forward. "How do we know," says the philosopher, "what accidents may
happen, or what doubts and hesitations may yet turn up? I am not to burden my mind in this
matter, till I know that I must do it. Let me hear when she is ready to go to church, and I
will be ready with the settlements. My compliments to Miss and her papa, and let us wait a
little." Dearest Helena--isn't he funny?

The next letter has been already mentioned.

In this there occurs the first startling reference to Mrs. Tenbruggen, by name. She is in London,
finding her way to lucrative celebrity by twisting, turning, and pinching the flesh of credulous
persons, afflicted with nervous disorders; and she has already paid a few medical visits to
old Mr. Dunboyne. He persists in poring over his books while Mrs. Tenbruggen operates, sometimes
on his cramped right hand, sometimes (in the fear that his brain may have something to do with
it) on the back of his neck. One of them frowns over her rubbing, and the other frowns over
his reading. It would be delightfully ridiculous, but for a drawback; Mr. Philip Dunboyne's
first impressions of Mrs. Tenbruggen do not incline him to look at that lady from a humorous
point of view.

Helena's remarks follow, as usual. She has seen Mrs. Tenbruggen's name on the address of a
letter written by Miss Jillgall--which is quite enough to condemn Mrs. Tenbruggen. As for Philip
himself, she feels not quite sure of him, even yet. No more do I. Third Extract.

The letter that follows must be permitted to speak for itself:

I have flown into a passion, dearest Helena; and I am afraid I shall make you fly into a passion,
too. Blame Mrs. Tenbruggen; don't blame me.

On the first occasion when I found my father under the hands of the Medical Rubber, she took
no notice of me. On the second occasion--when she had been in daily attendance on him for a
week, at an exorbitant fee--she said in the coolest manner: "Who is this young gentleman?"
My father laid down his book, for a moment only: "Don't interrupt me again, ma'am. The young
gentleman is my son Philip." Mrs. Tenbruggen eyed me with an appearance of interest which I
was at a loss to account for. I hate an impudent woman. My visit came suddenly to an end.

The next time I saw my father, he was alone.

I asked him how he got on with Mrs. Tenbruggen. As badly as possible, it appeared. "She takes
liberties with my neck; she interrupts me in my reading; and she does me no good. I shall end,
Philip, in applying a medical rubbing to Mrs. Tenbruggen."

A few days later, I found the masterful "Masseuse" torturing the poor old gentleman's muscles
again. She had the audacity to say to me: "Well, Mr. Philip, when are you going to marry Miss
Eunice Gracedieu?" My father looked up. "Eunice?" he repeated. "When my son told me he was
engaged to Miss Gracedieu, he said 'Helena'! Philip, what does this mean?" Mrs. Tenbruggen
was so obliging as to answer for me. "Some mistake, sir; it's Eunice he is engaged to." I confess
I forgot myself. "How the devil do you know that?" I burst out. Mrs. Tenbruggen ignored me
and my language. "I am sorry to see, sir, that your son's education has been neglected; he
seems to be grossly ignorant of the laws of politeness." "Never mind the laws of politeness,"
says my father. "You appear to be better acquainted with my son's matrimonial prospects than
he is himself. How is that?" Mrs. Tenbruggen favored him with another ready reply: "My authority
is a letter, addressed to me by a relative of Mr. Gracedieu--my dear and intimate friend, Miss
Jillgall." My father's keen eyes traveled backward and forward between his female surgeon and
his son. "Which am I to believe?" he inquired. "I am surprised at your asking the question,"
I said. Mrs. Tenbruggen pointed to me. "Look at Mr. Philip, sir--and you will allow him one
merit. He is capable of showing it, when he knows he has disgraced himself." Without intending
it, I am sure, my father infuriated me; he looked as if he believed her. Out came one of the
smallest and strongest words in the English language before I could stop it: "Mrs. Tenbruggen,
you lie!" The illustrious Rubber dropped my father's hand--she had been operating on him all
the time--and showed us that she could assert her dignity when circumstances called for the
exertion: "Either your son or I, sir, must leave the room. Which is it to be?" She met her
match in my father. Walking quietly to the door, he opened it for Mrs. Tenbruggen with a low
bow. She stopped on her way out, and delivered her parting words: "Messieurs Dunboyne, father
and son, I keep my temper, and merely regard you as a couple of blackguards." With that pretty
assertion of her opinion, she left us.

When we were alone, there was but one course to take; I made my confession. It is impossible
to tell you how my father received it--for he sat down at his library table with his back to
me. The first thing he did was to ask me to help his memory.

"Did you say that the father of these girls was a parson?"

"Yes--a Congregational Minister."

"What does the Minister think of you?"

"I don't know, sir."

"Find out."

That was all; not another word could I extract from him. I don't pretend to have discovered
what he really has in his mind. I only venture on a suggestion. If there is any old friend
in your town, who has some influence over your father, leave no means untried of getting that
friend to say a kind word for us. And then ask your father to write to mine. This is, as I
see it, our only chance.

.......

There the letter ends. Helena's notes on it show that her pride is fiercely interested in securing
Philip as a husband. Her victory over poor Eunice will, as she plainly intimates, be only complete
when she is married to young Dunboyne. For the rest, her desperate resolution to win her way
to my good graces is sufficiently intelligible, now.

My own impressions vary. Philip rather gains upon me; he appears to have some capacity for
feeling ashamed of himself. On the other hand, I regard the discovery of an intimate friendship
existing between Mrs. Tenbruggen and Miss Jillgall with the gloomiest views. Is this formidable
Masseuse likely to ply her trade in the country towns? And is it possible that she may come
to this town? God forbid!

Of the other letters in the collection, I need take no special notice. I returned the whole
correspondence to Helena, and waited to hear from her.

The one recent event in Mr. Gracedieu's family, worthy of record, is of a melancholy nature.
After paying his visit to-day, the doctor has left word that nobody but the nurse is to go
near the Minister. This seems to indicate, but too surely, a change for the worse.

Helena has been away all the evening at the Girls' School. She left a little note, informing
me of her wishes: "I shall expect to be favored with your decision to-morrow morning, in my
housekeeping room."

At breakfast time, the report of the poor Minister was still discouraging. I noticed that Helena
was absent from the table. 

Be one of so many jokes, which as I said were characteristic of Sandy-Bar, be more altruistic
reasons, the case is that two thirds of the unemployed accepted then the invitation was so freely they
were made.

They had already struck midnight, when the body of Tennessee was placed in the hands of their
partner. When approached the car to the fatal tree, we note that contained a rough oblong box,
made the Apparently sluice tables [7] half-filled pine bark and twigs. Were part the decoration
of the cart willow cuttings and a few dozen long flowers odor. A body once placed in the box,
Tennessee's partner covered it with a cloth tarred, mounted seriously on the narrow front box,
and your feet on the beam, whipped up the ass, slowly moving vehicle, with that dignified step which,
even in circumstances less formal, it is customary to as intelligent
quadrupeds.

Middle of curiosity, half in jest, but all in good humor, both of miners continued sides of the
truck, a front, others behind the simple coffin, but is due to the narrowness of way or by
some instinctive momentary feeling of pity, as he advanced the car, support was delayed in pairs,
keeping the pace and taking the appearance of a solemn procession. The fun Polibión James, who
had started out parody a funeral march, moving his fingers on an imaginary flute, declined to
pursue it, not find a favorable reception, perhaps lacking the ability
of real humor, you can have fun with your own grace and humor.

The road crossed the creek funeral Bear, covered at this time of dark and gloomy aspect. The
Campeches, hiding in the reddish soil his feet, manned the path as
in single file, and its branches seemed inclined to take a strange
blessing over the coffin progressed slowly.

A beautiful hare, caught in their innate activity, sat on his hind legs, rebullendo the ferns beside
the road, while the procession marched. Squirrels were quick to gain the upper branches to
peek from there in safety, and jays, stretching its wings, flew to
the front as outriders, until we reach suburbs of Sandy-Bar and the
solitary cabin of the director of the ceremony.

Seen this place even more pleasant circumstances, there would have been a cheerful place. The
rough and ugly figure and the gross details that distinguish mining constructions California,
and moreover, a little picturesque location, all gathered there to sadness debris. A few meters
from the hut, lay a rough fence, in the short days of marital bliss Tennessee's partner, had served
as a garden, but in Back then, enjoyed a lush ferns and herbs of all kinds. As we approach
the fence, we were surprised to see that what we had taken for A recent assay, was only clearing
surrounding a newly opened tomb. The wagon and stood in front of the enclosure, and Tennessee's
partner refusing offers of help, with the same air of confidence he had shown in all, took the
box and deposited, without help from anyone in the shallow grave. With nails sticking after serving
table cover, and getting on the mound that stood beside the grave, He uncovered and slowly
wiped his face with his handkerchief. Everyone understood that these were the preliminary of speech,
and spread on tree trunks and rocks waiting situation.

Dignity coated Tennessee's partner said slowly:

- Say, when a man has been running free all day, what is natural right? Then go home. But if you can
not go home for yourself, what you need make your best friend?

Of course, bring her! And here at Tennessee has been running released and their pilgrimages bring
it home.

Here, to focus their ideas, silent, low to take a piece of quartz, and rubbing thoughtfully on
his sleeve, he continued:

- Other times I had loaded on my back and now you have seen, sometimes
had brought to this cottage, when you could not stand up for himself
more than once myself and the donkey We had expected up there gathering
it and bringing it home when he could not speak, nor was it possible
to recognize me.

And today is the last day ... You see ...

Callose again and rubbed the quartz against his sleeve.

- As you can see, the case is hard for your partner ... And now, gentlemen - he said abruptly,
picking up your long-handled shovel - the funeral is over, I thank y. .. Tennessee it also gives
them the trouble they have caused.

Opposing many offers of help were made, began to fill the grave, giving back the crowd, which,
after some moments of indecision, withdrew gradually.

By doubling the small ridge that hid Sandy sight-Bar, some turning back thought they saw the
partner of Tennessee, and completed his work, sitting on the grave with the shovel between
your knees and face buried in his red silk handkerchief, but others argued that at such a distance,
it was not possible to distinguish the face of the tissue, and this point was not clarified ever.

In the midst of the calm that followed the feverish excitement of that day, Tennessee's partner
not was cast into oblivion by the camp's residents. Some rigorous indictment that done secretly
delivered him from the alleged complicity in the crime of Tennessee,
but not certain suspicion about whether or not it was in his right
mind.

The population of Sandy-consciousness ignored Bar the visit, offering
various gifts coarse, but inspired by sincere sentiments.

But since that fateful day, that health and great strength seemed visibly to decline, and entry
and the rainy season when grass leaflets began to appear and between the rocky mound covering the
tomb of Tennessee, got himself beaten by the disease.

Then he put into bed.

That night, the pine trees surrounding the hut, shaken by the storm, dragging their graceful
branches over the roof, and the distance they heard the roar and the pounding of the impetuous
stream. Tennessee's partner stood up and said:

- It is time, go in search of Tennessee; engancharé cart.

And he had risen from bed to not telling her maid prevented. However, making strange movements,
continued its singular delirium

- Come, borriquita! So, so! Still! How dark it is! Alert for holes, and care He also, old. You
know that sometimes, when drunk, roll like a log up the ditch. Run, then, straight to the pine
up there on the hill. Well ... No I said it! ... There it is! ... is coming ... just ... serene ...
How to shine your eyes! Tennessee!

And so it was to meet ...

A POOR MAN

In 1852, went with us to California, aboard the Skiscraper, an individual named Fag, David Fag. I think
that the adventurous spirit had little effect on his departure, probably would have no place to
go. In the evenings, when young people gathered, pondered the magnificent placements we had left,
and how sad they had been our from friends to see us, when we taught daguerreotypes, and loops
of hair, and talked Mary and Susan, the poor man used to sit with us and we listened painfully humbled,
but without saying a word. Maybe it had nothing to say. Lacked comrades except when we protected
him, and in honor of the truth, we enjoyed a lot. No did wind to fill a hat, and I was dizzy, could
never get used to life on board. I will never forget how we laughed when Abel brought a piece
of bacon in a string, y. .. but everybody knows this classic joke, then joked to its shores
with great joy.

Ms. Engracia could not suffer, he did believe that she had fancied with him, and sent them to the cabin
books and candy. It was funny seeing the scene that took place when fighting stammering and dizziness,
rose to thank him for the gifts. Menudo was she angry! It seemed to Medora, said Abelard, who
knew Byron by heart, and were not a little choked the old Fag! However, we do not hold grudges, and
when Abelardo fell ill at Valparaiso, the old Fag nursed him carefully. It was, in short,
a boy good pasta, but lacked courage and enterprise. Absolutely devoid of all aesthetic feeling
once it became seen lounging sat mending his old clothes, while reciting Abelardo the stirring
apostrophe of Byron Ocean. On one occasion, he asked very seriously Abelardo if he thought
Byron had been dizzy on occasion. I do not remember the answer to Abelard but we all laughed, and I
think it would be good, it was not without Abelardo of humor.

The day the Skiscraper came to San Francisco, held a grand banquet. Convínose to meet every year
and perpetuate such an event.

Of course, that we invite to Fag. Fag was a third passenger, and as will be understood, it
was necessary, since we were on land, be a bit cautious. But the old Fag, as we called him,
but was not more than twenty-five years (such as brackets), was for us that day the subject
of much banter. According to seems, conceived the idea of ​​walking to Sacramento, and really went
on that form. The party was complete: gave us all a good handshake, and each was by his side.
Alas! No it eight years ago, and yet, some of those hands, then narrowed friendly, have risen
up against each other, and have sneaked into our pockets.

We did not eat together and next year, because the young Baker vowed not to ever sit in occupy
the same table as a villain as despicable as Remigio, and Colas, which asked Valparaiso borrow
the young Lupo, who served as a waiter in a restaurant, did not like meet people of such ilk.

Having
purchased a number of actions Cayote's Tunnel in Mugginswille, 54, is I did go up there and
examine it. I stayed at the Fonda of the Empire, and after eating, I looked for a horse, I
turned the village and went to the mines.

I was told a of those individuals whom newspaper correspondents call
"our intelligent news "and that small communities can easily take
the right to give all kinds reporting.

The force of habit and allowed to work and talk at once, without
forgetting never one thing for another.

Brought me a kind of history of the farm, adding:

- See you (and headed to the bank before it), surely there must come out gold (And here filed a coma
with his lance), but the previous owner (pulled stomach cramps the
word of his pica) was a poor man (and underlined the phrase with pica),
an unhappy devoid of all authority, allowing the kids to go up to
her whiskers ... (The rest entrusted the operation to remove his hat
to wipe his brow manly with a large blue check handkerchief.)

Curiosity
led me to ask who was the original owner.

- It was called Fag.

I hastened to visit him, I seemed older and uglier. He had worked hard, as said, however, the
only thing he was going so well. Take his hobby and to some extent protected him. If I did, because
it started to feel distrust for kids like Abelard and Remigio need not speak.

Everyone remembers how the Cayote's Tunnel collapsed ignominiously and how we cheated. Well,
well, the first thing I learned was that Abelard, one of the major shareholders, was reduced
in Migginswille to save the hotel bar, and had the old Fag Rich, at last, and vareaba silver.
Remigio I learned all this when he came to fix their affairs.

He also told me that he had coconuts Fag daughter of the owner of that hotel. So, by hearsay
and by letters, I came to know that Robins, the owner of the hotel tried to arrange the marriage
between his daughter Rosita and Fag. Rosita was a strange child nice and plump, and I would
not do more than what his father commanded. I found it very convenient Fag to marry and to establish,
therefore, as a married man, would acquire all other authority.

Resolved, then, one day up to Mugginswille, to treat the matter myself.

There I had the great satisfaction that I serve drinks Abelardo yes, because it was Abelard,
the cheerful, bright, the invincible Abelard, who had tried for two years to despise. Talk about the
old Fag and Rosita, precisely because I thought the matter it would not be pleased. Declarome
that Fag never liked, and was sure that Rosita also liked: perhaps another person occupied the thoughts
of Rosita.

Then he turned to the desk mirror and smoothed his hair, I realized the vanity scoundrel, and
I thought to warn Fag so to hurry to formalize their union. In the course of a long conversation
we had and the tone in which he spoke, I wished I see that the poor boy was madly in love with the girl.
He sighed and coated prometiome courage to take the matter to a crisis. I also understood it,
an excellent heart, felt a kind of silent respect for Fag, but had
turned her head qualities Abelardo surface, which were nice and courteous.

I do not think Rosie was worse you and me: we are more willing to judge the face value known that
internal value. We are less work and more comfortable, except when we need to rely them. The challenge
for the women, is that in them the feeling is interested sooner than us, and you already understand
that in this case reflection is impossible. This is what had happened to the old Fag if it had been a
man of the most Light psychology.

But it was not.

The thing was hopeless.

Some months later she was sitting in my office when I showed the old Fag. After of a warm handshake,
talk about current affairs, of that mechanically own people who know
you have something to say, but that is bound to get there through
the usual ceremonies.

After a pause, Fag, with its usual ease, I said:

- I return to my
home.

- Does your home?

- Yes, that is, I think I'll do a trip to
the Atlantic States.

I've been to see, then, as you know, I have some properties and powers have given your name to
can manage: I bring some papers that would want to keep in your possession.

Would you take care of them?

- Yes - I said .-- "But what about Rosie?

Dumb fag, tried to smile, and this game was one of the most striking effects and grotesque
that ever witnessed. Finally he said:

- I will not marry Rosita, that is - and seemed to be asked internally as forgiveness of a sentence
categorically - I think I will better not to marry.

- David Fag - said with sudden severity, - are a poor man.

And to my surprise, his face became animated.

- Yes - said - that is, I am a poor man, so I've known forever, I'll tell you, I thought Abelard
wanted the girl as I do, and knew also that she loved him more than
to me, and it might be happier with my rival.

In addition, I also know that the old Robins I would have preferred the other because I was rich,
and that the girl would have obeyed his father, but, you know?, I figured that in the way,
as they say, so I chose to retire. However - continued when was about to interrupt him, - for
fear that the father Abelard rejected, I have paid enough to establish
himself in Dogtown. Enterprising, active, bright, as you know it's
Big Bird, can advance and become again with his old position, and
there is no need for it urges him if he fails. Alargome hand to say
goodbye again.

Sentíame tired of leftovers for their way of treating
such kind Abelardo to show, but as business was good, I promised to
take care of him, and departed Fag.

Some time passed. He came back
the next steamer, and for several days, a terrible accident occupied
the attention of the United States. In all regions of the State leíanse
eagerly the details of a terrible shipwreck, and those who had friends
on board met to read compressed breath long list of victims. At my later
time of life, I could show my old friend that I was not afraid of him--but I was conscious
of an effort in doing it.

I opened the paper. "Am I to read this to myself?" I asked. "Or am I to read it aloud?"

"Read it aloud!"

In these terms, his daughter addressed him:

"I have been so unfortunate, dearest father, as to displease you, and I dare not hope that
you will consent to receive me. What it is my painful duty to tell you, must be told in writing.

"Grieved as I am to distress you, in your present state of health, I must not hesitate to reveal
what it has been my misfortune--I may even say my misery, when I think of my mother--to discover.

"But let me make sure, in such a serious matter as this is, that I am not mistaken.

"In those happy past days, when I was still dear to my father, you said you thought of writing
to invite a dearly-valued friend to pay a visit to this house. You had first known him, as
I understood, when my mother was still living. Many interesting things you told me about this
old friend, but you never mentioned that he knew, or that he had even seen, my mother. I was
left to suppose that those two had remained strangers to each other to the day of her death.

"If there is any misinterpretation here of what you said, or perhaps of what you meant to say,
pray destroy what I have written without turning to the next page; and forgive me for having
innocently startled you by a false alarm."

Mr. Gracedieu interrupted me.

"Put it down!" he cried; "I won't wait till you have got to the end--I shall question you now.
Give me the paper; it will help me to keep this mystery of iniquity clear in my own mind."

I gave him the paper.

He hesitated--and looked at the portrait once more. "Turn her away from me," he said; "I can't
face my wife."

I placed the picture with its back to him.

He consulted the paper, reading it with but little of the confusion and hesitation which my
experience of him had induced me to anticipate. Had the mad excitement that possessed him exercised
an influence in clearing his mind, resembling in some degree the influence exercised by a storm
in clearing the air? Whatever the right explanation may be, I can only report what I saw. I
could hardly have mastered what his daughter had written more readily, if I had been reading
it myself.

"Helena tells me," he began, "that you said you knew her by her likeness to her mother. Is
that true?"

"Quite true."

"And you made an excuse for leaving her--see! here it is, written down. You made an excuse,
and left her when she asked for an explanation."

"I did."

He consulted the paper again.

"My daughter says--No! I won't be hurried and I won't be interrupted--she says you were confused.
Is that so?"

"It is so. Let your questions wait for a moment. I wish to tell you why I was confused."

"Haven't I said I won't be interrupted? Do you think you can shake my resolution?" He referred
to the paper again. "I have lost the place. It's your fault--find it for me."

The evidence which was intended to convict me was the evidence which I was expected to find!
I pointed it out to him.

His natural courtesy asserted itself in spite of his anger. He said "Thank you," and questioned
me the moment after as fiercely as ever. "Go back to the time, sir, when we met in your rooms
at the prison. Did you know my wife then?"

"Certainly not."

"Did you and she see each other--ha! I've got it now--did you see each other after I had left
the town? No prevarication! You own to telling Helena that you knew her by her likeness to
her mother. You must have seen her mother. Where?"

I made another effort to defend myself. He again refused furiously to hear me. It was useless
to persist. Whatever the danger that threatened me might be, the sooner it showed itself the
easier I should feel. I told him that Mrs. Gracedieu had called on me, after he and his wife
had left the town.

"Do you mean to tell me," he cried, "that she came to you?"

"I do."

After that answer, he no longer required the paper to help him. He threw it from him on the floor.

"And you received her," he said, "without inquiring whether I knew of her visit or not? Guilty
deception on your part--guilty deception on her part. Oh, the hideous wickedness of it!"

When his mad suspicion that I had been his wife's lover betrayed itself in this way, I made
a last attempt, in the face of my own conviction that it was hopeless, to place my conduct
and his wife's conduct before him in the true light.

"Mrs. Gracedieu's object was to consult me--" Before I could say the next words, I saw him
put his hand into the pocket of his dressing-gown.

"An innocent man," he sternly declared, "would have told me that my wife had been to see him--you
kept it a secret. An innocent woman would have given me a reason for wishing to go to you--she
kept it a secret, when she left my house; she kept it a secret when she came back." 

The butcher was with Don Paco from a sprocket, and confident that if you are Becerrita and
was invalided to kill her, which is the brains, tongue and the best of the spine not presented
at another table but in the Don Paco, except that of his daughter, about whom later.

Amazing was the activity of Don Paco, but was far from sterile. With so many trades He flourished
and thrived it was a blessing from heaven, and though he had begun in his youth not possess
more than the day and night, had finally owning a good farm. Hazas had two in the ring, one
of three bushels. The other only had a bushel and five bushels, but as there had been in the
old cemetery at the site, land was very generous and chickpeas produced more and fatter buttery
and tender that ate throughout the province, compared with which the pellets were held Alfarnate
chickpeas. He also had fifteen aranzadas Don Paco olive, whose olive trees were none cantacucos,
but very dense and almost every year brought bumper crop of olives, with Gordale famously, he
used to dress very well, and, according to experts in this area outstripped the tastiest olives
Córdoba, celebrated and in the gatomaquia by The Phoenix of Wits, Lope de Vega.

Finally, Don Paco owned the house where he lived, where no warehouse
with ten jars missing of the best in Lucena, a small winery and a
winery with more than twenty pipes between girls and large.

To fill pipes and vats was Don Paco owns a beautiful vineyard, which was almost six bushels
of extension, and although their product was not enough, he used to buy juice time of harvest, or
rather buy grapes, I stepped in the winery of your home.

Was this for the good of the people, to corral where there were chickens,
and paved patio and full of pots of basil, rough, euonymus, Miramelindo
dompedro and other flowers.

Of course for the winery's rustic chores, the racking of the wine and clothing oil, man and
beast came in through a small door that was false in the corral. In sum, the house was just
as comfortable and ladylike, as though it had hired Don Paco, instead of living, who would
not have missed for her to give him four hundred reals a year, clean dust and straw, that is,
the tenant paying the contribution.

Must confess that all this flowering had a terrible against: dependence
Don Andrés Rubio, dependency that was impossible or at least very
difficult to escape.

However useful that men are skilled, and very suitable for all, I can not deny that rarely become
absolutely necessary, notably when they are on top of a man of strong will and irresistible
power whom they serve and whose whim and markets are as posted. Don Andrés Rubio had, so to speak, made
to Don Paco, and so as he had done could be undone. There would be missing for this person or
persons to replace Don Paco, dividing their jobs, if one was not
enough to fill them all with same efficiency and skill.

Of the multitude of questions with which poor Miss Jillgall overwhelmed me--of the wild words
of sorrow and alarm that escaped her--of the desperate manner in which she held by my arm,
and implored me not to go away, when I must see for myself that "she was a person entirely
destitute of presence of mind"--I shall say nothing. The undeserved suffering that is inflicted
on innocent persons by the sins of others demands silent sympathy; and, to that extent at least,
I can say that I honestly felt for my quaint and pleasant little friend.

In the evening the doctor called on me at the hotel. The medical treatment of his patient had
succeeded in calming the maddened brain under the influence of sleep. If the night passed quietly,
better news might be hoped for in the morning.

On the next day I had arranged to drive to the farm, being resolved not to disappoint Eunice.
But I shrank from the prospect of having to distress her as I had already distressed Miss Jillgall.
The only alternative left was to repeat the sad story in writing, subject to the concealments
which I had already observed. This I did, and sent the letter by messenger, overnight, so that
Eunice might know when to expect me.

The medical report, in the morning, justified some hope. Mr. Gracedieu had slept well, and
there had been no reappearance of insane violence on his waking. But the doctor's opinion was
far from encouraging when we spoke of the future. He did not anticipate the cruel necessity
of placing the Minister under restraint--unless some new provocation led to a new outbreak.
The misfortune to be feared was imbecility.

I was just leaving the hotel to keep my appointment with Eunice, when the waiter announced
the arrival of a young lady who wished to speak with me. Before I could ask if she had mentioned
her name, the young lady herself walked in--Helena Gracedieu.

She explained her object in calling on me, with the exasperating composure which was peculiarly
her own. No parallel to it occurs to me in my official experience of shameless women.

"I don't wish to speak of what happened yesterday, so far as I know anything about it," she
began. "It is quite enough for me that you have been obliged to leave the house and to take
refuge in this hotel. I have come to say a word about the future. Are you honoring me with
your attention?"

I signed to her to go on. If I had answered in words, I should have told her to leave the room.

"At first," she resumed, "I thought of writing; but it occurred to me that you might keep my
letter, and show it to Philip, by way of lowering me in his good opinion, as you have lowered
me in the good opinion of his father. My object in coming here is to give you a word of warning.
If you attempt to make mischief next between Philip and myself, I shall hear of it--and you
know what to expect, when you have me for an enemy. It is not worth while to say any more.
We understand each other, I hope?"

She was determined to have a reply--and she got it.

"Not quite yet," I said. "I have been hitherto, as becomes a gentleman, always mindful of a
woman's claims to forbearance. You will do well not to tempt me into forgetting that you are
a woman, by prolonging your visit. Now, Miss Helena Gracedieu, we understand each other." She
made me a low curtsey, and answered in her finest tone of irony: "I only desire to wish you
a pleasant journey home."

I rang for the waiter. "Show this lady out," I said.

Even this failed to have the slightest effect on her. She sauntered to the door, as perfectly
at her ease as if the room had been hers--not mine.

I had thought of driving to the farm. Shall I confess it? My temper was so completely upset
that active movement of some kind offered the one means of relief in which I could find refuge.
The farm was not more than five miles distant, and I had been a good walker all my life. After
making the needful inquiries, I set forth to visit Eunice on foot.

My way through the town led me past the Minister's house. I had left the door some fifty yards
behind me, when I saw two ladies approaching. They were walking, in the friendliest manner,
arm in arm. As they came nearer, I discovered Miss Jillgall. Her companion was the middle-aged
lady who had declined to give her name, when we met accidentally at Mr. Gracedieu's door.

Hysterically impulsive, Miss Jillgall seized both my hands, and overwhelmed me with entreaties
that I would go back with her to the house. I listened rather absently. The middle-aged lady
happened to be nearer to me now than on either of the former occasions on which I had seen
her. There was something in the expression of her eyes which seemed to be familiar to me. But
the effort of my memory was not helped by what I observed in the other parts of her face. The
iron-gray hair, the baggy lower eyelids, the fat cheeks, the coarse complexion, and the double
chin, were features, and very disagreeable features, too, which I had never seen at any former
time.

"Do pray come back with us," Miss Jillgall pleaded. "We were just talking of you. I and my
friend--" There she stopped, evidently on the point of blurting out the name which she had
been forbidden to utter in my hearing.

The lady smiled; her provokingly familiar eyes rested on me with a humorous enjoyment of the scene.

"My dear," she said to Miss Jillgall, "caution ceases to be a virtue when it ceases to be of
any use. The Governor is beginning to remember me, and the inevitable recognition--with his
quickness of perception--is likely to be a matter of minutes now." She turned to me. "In more
ways than one, sir, women are hardly used by Nature. As they advance in years they lose more
in personal appearance than the men do. You are white-haired, and (pray excuse me) you are
too fat; and (allow me to take another liberty) you stoop at the shoulders--but you have not
entirely lost your good looks. I am no longer recognizable. Allow me to prompt you, as they
say on the stage. I am Mrs. Tenbruggen."

As a man of the world, I ought to have been capable of concealing my astonishment and dismay.
She struck me dumb.

Mrs. Tenbruggen in the town! The one woman whose appearance Mr. Gracedieu had dreaded, and
justly dreaded, stood before me--free, as a friend of his kinswoman, to enter his house, at
the very time when he was a helpless man, guarded by watchers at his bedside. My first clear
idea was to get away from both the women, and consider what was to be done next. I bowed--and
begged to be excused--and said I was in a hurry, all in a breath.

Hearing this, the best of genial old maids was unable to restrain her curiosity. "Where are
you going?" she asked.

Too confused to think of an excuse, I said I was going to the farm.

"To see my dear Euneece?" Miss Jillgall burst out. "Oh, we will go with you!" Mrs. Tenbruggen's
politeness added immediately, "With the greatest pleasure."

CHAPTER XLVII. THE JOURNEY TO THE FARM.

My first ungrateful impulse was to get rid of the two cumbersome ladies who had offered to
be my companions. It was needless to call upon my invention for an excuse; the truth, as I
gladly perceived, would serve my purpose. I had only to tell them that I had arranged to walk
to the farm.

Lean, wiry, and impetuous, Miss Jillgall received my excuse with the sincerest approval of
it, as a new idea. "Nothing could be more agreeable to me," she declared; "I have been a wonderful
walker all my life." She turned to her friend. "We will go with him, my dear, won't we?"

Mrs. Tenbruggen's reception of this proposal inspired me with hope; she asked how far it was
to the farm. "Five miles!" she repeated. "And five miles back again, unless the farmer lends
us a cart. My dear Selina, you might as well ask me to walk to the North Pole. You have got
rid of one of us, Mr. Governor," she added, pleasantly; "and the other, if you only walk fast
enough, you will leave behind you on the road. If I believed in luck--which I don't--I should
call you a fortunate man."

But companionable Selina would not hear of a separation. She asked, in her most irresistible
manner, if I objected to driving instead of walking. Her heart's dearest wish, she said, was
to make her bosom friend and myself better acquainted with each other. To conclude, she reminded
me that there was a cab-stand in the next street.

Perhaps I might have been influenced by my distrust of Mrs. Tenbruggen, or perhaps by my anxiety
to protect Eunice. It struck me that I might warn the defenseless girl to be on her guard with
Mrs. Tenbruggen to better purpose, if Eunice was in a position to recognize her in any future
emergency that might occur. To my mind, this dangerous woman was doubly formidable--and for
a good reason; she was the bosom friend of that innocent and unwary person, Miss Jillgall.
So I amiably consented to forego my walk, yielding to the superior attraction of Mrs. Tenbruggen's
company. On that day the sunshine was tempered by a delightful breeze. If we had been in the
biggest and worst-governed city on the civilised earth, we should have found no public vehicle,
open to the air, which could offer accommodation to three people. Being only in a country town,
we had a light four-wheeled chaise at our disposal, as a matter of course.

No wise man expects to be mercifully treated, when he is shut into a carriage with a mature
single lady, inflamed by curiosity. I was not unprepared for Miss Jillgall when she alluded,
for the second time, to the sad events which had happened in the house on the previous day--and
especially to the destruction by Mr. Gracedieu of the portrait of his wife.

"Why didn't he destroy something else?" she pleaded, piteously. "It is such a disappointment
to Me. I never liked that picture myself. Of course I ought to have admired the portrait of
the wife of my benefactor. But no--that disagreeable painted face was too much for me. I should
have felt inexpressibly relieved, if I could have shown it to Elizabeth, and heard her say
that she agreed with me."

"Perhaps I saw it when I called on you," Mrs. Tenbruggen suggested. "Where did the picture hang?"

"My dear! I received you in the dining-room, and the portrait hung in Mr. Gracedieu's study."

What they said to each other next escaped my attention. Quite unconsciously, Miss Jillgall
had revealed to me a danger which neither the Minister nor I had discovered, though it had
conspicuously threatened us both on the wall of the study. The act of mad destruction which,
if I had possessed the means of safely interfering, I should certainly have endeavored to prevent,
now assumed a new and startling aspect. If Mrs. Tenbruggen really had some motive of her own
for endeavoring to identify the adopted child, the preservation of the picture must have led
her straight to the end in view. The most casual opportunity of comparing Helena with the portrait
of Mrs. Gracedieu would have revealed the likeness between mother and daughter--and, that result
attained, the identification of Eunice with the infant whom the "Miss Chance" of those days
had brought to the prison must inevitably have followed. It was perhaps natural that Mr. Gracedieu's
infatuated devotion to the memory of his wife should have blinded him to the betrayal of Helena's
parentage, which met his eyes every time he entered his study. But that I should have been
too stupid to discover what he had failed to see, was a wound dealt to my self-esteem which
I was vain enough to feel acutely.

Mrs. Tenbruggen's voice, cheery and humorous, broke in on my reflections, with an odd question:

"Mr. Governor, do you ever condescend to read novels?"

"It's not easy to say, Mrs. Tenbruggen, how grateful I am to the writers of novels."

"Ah! I read novels, too. But I blush to confess--do I blush?--that I never thought of feeling
grateful till you mentioned it. Selina and I don't complain of your preferring your own reflections
to our company. On the contrary, you have reminded us agreeably of the heroes of fiction, when
the author describes them as being 'absorbed in thought.' For some minutes, Mr. Governor, you
have been a hero; absorbed, as I venture to guess, in unpleasant remembrances of the time when
I was a single lady. You have not forgotten how badly I behaved, and what shocking things I
said, in those bygone days. Am I right?"

"You are entirely wrong."

It is possible that I may have spoken a little too sharply. Anyway, faithful Selina interceded
for her friend. "Oh, dear sir, don't be hard on Elizabeth! She always means well." Mrs. Tenbruggen,
as facetious as ever, made a grateful return for a small compliment. She chucked Miss Jillgall
under the chin, with the air of an amorous old gentleman expressing his approval of a pretty
servant-girl. It was impossible to look at the two, in their relative situations, without laughing.
But Mrs. Tenbruggen failed to cheat me into altering my opinion of her. Innocent Miss Jillgall
clapped her ugly hands, and said: "Isn't she good company?"

Mrs. Tenbruggen's social resources were not exhausted yet. She suddenly shifted to the serious
side of her character.

"Perhaps I have improved a little," she said, "as I have advanced in years. The sorrows of
an unhappy married life may have had a purifying influence on my nature. My husband and I began
badly. Mr. Tenbruggen thought I had money; and I thought Mr. Tenbruggen had money. He was taken
in by me; and I was taken in by him. When he repeated the words of the marriage service (most
impressively read by your friend the Chaplain): 'With all my worldly goods I thee endow'--his
eloquent voice suggested one of the largest incomes in Europe. When I promised and vowed, in
my turn, the delightful prospect of squandering my rich husband's money made quite a new woman
of me. I declare solemnly, when I said I would love, honor, and obey Mr. T., I looked as if
I really meant it. Wherever he is now, poor dear, he is cheating somebody. Such a handsome,
gentleman-like man, Selina! And, oh, Mr. Governor, such a blackguard!"

Having described her husband in those terms, she got tired of the subject. We were now favored
with another view of this many-sided woman. She appeared in her professional character.

"Ah, what a delicious breeze is blowing, out here in the country!" she said. "Will you excuse
me if I take off my gloves? I want to air my hands." She held up her hands to the breeze; firm,
muscular, deadly white hands. "In my professional occupation," she explained, "I am always
rubbing, tickling, squeezing, tapping, kneading, rolling, striking the muscles of patients.
Selina, do you know the movements of your own joints? Flexion, extension, abduction, adduction,
rotation, circumduction, pronation, supination, and the lateral movements. Be proud of those
accomplishments, my dear, but beware of attempting to become a Masseuse. There are drawbacks
in that vocation--and I am conscious of one of them at this moment." She lifted her hands to
her nose. "Pah! my hands smell of other people's flesh. The delicious country air will blow
it away--the luxury of purification!" Her fingers twisted and quivered, and got crooked at
one moment and straight again at another, and showed themselves in succession singly, and flew
into each other fiercely interlaced, and then spread out again like the sticks of a fan, until
it really made me giddy to look at them. As for Miss Jillgall, she lifted her poor little sunken
eyes rapturously to the sky, as if she called the homiest sunlight to witness that this was
the most lovable woman on the face of the earth.

But elderly female fascination offers its allurements in vain to the rough animal, man. Suspicion
of Mrs. Tenbruggen's motives had established itself firmly in my mind. Why had the Popular
Masseuse abandoned her brilliant career in London, and plunged into the obscurity of a country
town? An opportunity of clearing up the doubt thus suggested seemed to have presented itself
now. "Is it indiscreet to ask," I said, "if you are here in your professional capacity?"

Her cunning seized its advantage and put a sly question to me. "Do you wish to be one of my
patients yourself?"

"That is, unfortunately, impossible," I replied "I have arranged to return to London."

"Immediately?"

"To-morrow at the latest."

Artful as she was, Mrs. Tenbruggen failed to conceal a momentary expression of relief which
betrayed itself, partly in her manner, partly in her face. She had ascertained, to her own
complete satisfaction, that my speedy departure was an event which might be relied on.

"But I have not yet answered you," she resumed. "To tell the truth, I am eager to try my hands
on you. Massage, as I practice it, would lighten your weight, and restore your figure; I may
even say would lengthen your life. You will think of me, one of these days, won't you? In the
meanwhile--yes! I am here in my professional capacity. Several interesting cases; and one very
remarkable person, brought to death's door by the doctors; a rich man who is liberal in paying
his fees. There is my quarrel with London and Londoners. Some of their papers, medical newspapers,
of course, declare that my fees are exorbitant; and there is a tendency among the patients--I
mean the patients who are rolling in riches--to follow the lead of the newspapers. I am no
worm to be trodden on, in that way. The London people shall wait for me, until they miss me--and,
when I do go back, they will find the fees increased. My fingers and thumbs, Mr. Governor,
are not to be insulted with impunity."

Miss Jillgall nodded her head at me. It was an eloquent nod. "Admire my spirited friend," was
the interpretation I put on it.

At the same time, my private sentiments suggested that Mrs. Tenbruggen's reply was too perfectly
satisfactory, viewed as an explanation. My suspicions were by no means set at rest; and I was
resolved not to let the subject drop yet. "Speaking of Mr. Gracedieu, and of the chances of
his partial recovery," I said, "do you think the Minister would benefit by Massage?"

"I haven't a doubt of it, if you can get rid of the doctor."

"You think he would be an obstacle in the way?"

"There are some medical men who are honorable exceptions to the general rule; and he may be
one of them," Mrs. Tenbruggen admitted. "Don't be too hopeful. As a doctor, he belongs to the
most tyrannical trades-union in existence. May I make a personal remark?"

"Certainly."

"I find something in your manner--pray don't suppose that I am angry--which looks like distrust;
I mean, distrust of me."

Miss Jillgall's ever ready kindness interfered in my defense: "Oh, no, Elizabeth! You are not
often mistaken; but indeed you are wrong now. Look at my distinguished friend. I remember my
copy book, when I was a small creature learning to write, in England. There were first lines
that we copied, in big letters, and one of them said, 'Distrust Is Mean.' I know a young person,
whose name begins with H, who is one mass of meanness. But"--excellent Selina paused, and pointed
to me with a gesture of triumph--"no meanness there!"

Mrs. Tenbruggen waited to hear what I had to say, scornfully insensible to Miss Jillgall's
well-meant interruption.

"You are not altogether mistaken," I told her. "I can't say that my mind is in a state of distrust,
but I own that you puzzle me."

"How, if you please?"

"May I presume that you remember the occasion when we met at Mr. Gracedieu's house-door? You
saw that I failed to recognize you, and you refused to give your name when the servant asked
for it. A few days afterward, I heard you (quite accidentally) forbid Miss Jillgall to mention
your name in my hearing. I am at a loss to understand it."

Before she could answer me, the chaise drew up at the gate of the farmhouse. Mrs. Tenbruggen
carefully promised to explain what had puzzled me, at the first opportunity. "If it escapes
my memory," she said, "pray remind me of it."

I determined to remind her of it. Whether I could depend on her to tell me the truth, might
be quite another thing.

CHAPTER XLVIII. THE DECISION OF EUNICE.

Eunice ran out to meet us, and opened the gate. She was instantly folded in Miss Jillgall's
arms. On her release, she came to me, eager for news of her father's health. When I had communicated
all that I thought it right to tell her of the doctor's last report, she noticed Mrs. Tenbruggen.
The appearance of a stranger seemed to embarrass her. I left Miss Jillgall to introduce them
to each other.

"Darling Euneece, you remember Mrs. Tenbruggen's name, I am sure? Elizabeth, this is my sweet
girl; I mentioned her in my letters to you."

"I hope she will be my sweet girl, when we know each other a little better. May I kiss you,
dear? You have lovely eyes; but I am sorry to see that they don't look like happy eyes. You
want Mamma Tenbruggen to cheer you. What a charming old house!"

She put her arm round Eunice's waist and led her to the house door. Her enjoyment of the creepers
that twined their way up the pillars of the porch was simply perfection as a piece of acting.
When the farmer's wife presented herself, Mrs. Tenbruggen was so irresistibly amiable, and
took such flattering notice of the children, that the harmless British matron actually blushed
with pleasure. "I'm sure, ma'am, you must have children of your own," she said. Mrs. Tenbruggen
cast her eyes on the floor, and sighed with pathetic resignation. A sweet little family, and
all cruelly swept away by death. If the performance meant anything, it did most assuredly mean
that.

"What wonderful self-possession!" somebody whispered in my ear. This, explained the naive innocence that feels so good a barbarian,
but a Greek taste had seen little attic.

Remembering the weary Partenia, I considered that another had been his fate, marry the ancient
Greek drama, at least would always dress decently without him basted wool suit for meals for
an entire year and cooking fats, not been forced to wait at table with her hair uncombed, nor have
his clothes hanging the two children with dirty fingers, dragging
unconscious to the grave.

These little optimistic musings of induced figured the cake was still
in the stomach, so I got up and told Ingomar show me the room because
I wanted to sleep.

Following the terrible barbarian, wielding a candle lit, went up the stairs up towards my room.
Caused me to notice that it was the only one with a single bed, and that had built for couples
who could do up there, but the absence overdue occasion, he had left half furnished. One wall
was lined and the other had large cracks. The wind that blew constantly over Wingdam, penetrated
into the chamber through different openings, the window was left little for their breakup, which
hung giving strange squeaking. It seemed all nasty and dirty. Before leaving Ingomar brought
me a bear fur, and throwing it on a kind of coffin that was in a
corner, said abrigaría me back and said goodbye, wishing me a happy
dream.

I was still naked when the light went out in the middle of this operation, I curled up under
the skin of a bear and tried his best to settle down soon falling asleep. However, it was disclosed.
I heard the wind which swept up and down the mountain, waving the melancholy pine branches,
then went home and struggled on all doors and windows of the building. Esparramaban strong air currents
often my hair on pillow with strange howling. Green wood on the walls gave off moisture that penetrated
even the skin through which I had given plantigrade. I felt like Robinson Crusoe on your tree,
after removing the ladder, or as the child who rocks the cradle. After half an hour of sleep,
I was standing in Wingdam me. After the third quarter time I regretted going to bed, and after an
hour of restlessness, I got ready to dress. Animome belief that he had seen fire in the common room,
and she might still burning. I went outside my room and kept in the dark corridor that resonated
with snoring of Gemany and the relentless wind whistle. I slid stairs down, and finally, entering
the room, I saw that the fire was still burning. I pulled a chair, I removed foot and I was surprised
to see Partenia sitting there too, with a creature the haggard face in her lap.

I told him if it would be indiscreet to ask him what was up yet.

No sleeping on Wednesdays until the arrival of mail, to call her husband
if he passengers who attend.

Is not he tired?

Sometimes, but Abner (the name of the barbarian) who had promised to give him help, the Next spring,
if the business prospered.

How many guests were?

He estimated that would come about forty meals a fixed time and had parish of transients, which
were so numerous that she and her husband could serve, but it worked well.

What job?

Oh! download firewood, carrying the baggage of passengers ...

"For
a long time she was married?

Some nine years and had lost a child and a child and had three others. He was from Illinois,
she Boston. He had been educated in high school girls from Boston,
I knew a little Latin and Greek and mathematics.

When his parents died came alone to Illinois to bring school saw
him, they got married ... a marriage for love ... (Two souls ... etc.)
Later migrated to Arkansas; thence across the plains to California,
always on the edge of civilization.

Did you want maybe ever go home?

I had not disliked because of their children, because he wanted to give them some education. She
had taught them something, but not much because of the excessive occupation. She was convinced
that the child would be, like his father, strong and cheerful: he
feared that the girl seemed rather to it.

I had often thought that I was not raised to be the wife of an innkeeper.

Why?

His forces were not many women had been friends of her husband in Kansas they could do more work, but he
complained, was so good!

(Two souls ... etc.)

Contemplela to light the home, whose reflections frolicked in his face withered and wilted,
but still thin and delicate. Leaning his head and thoughtfully, was in the weary chlorotic arms and
half-naked children, in spite of neglect, dirt and tatters, retained
a remnant of past distinction and it is no wonder that I feel I excited
so she called the "goodness" of her husband.

Encouraged by my sincere curiosity, I said that little by little he had left what I thought be weaknesses
of his early education, but felt he lost his already small force in this new situation. Moving from
city to forest, was hated by women, that attacked as arrogant and presumptuous, all this father
of her husband's unpopularity among mates, and driven in part by his adventurous instincts and
partly by circumstance, led to other lands.

He continued the story of the sad odyssey. In his memory there was another reminder of the way tour
a vast and desolate wilderness, whose uniform stood a small plain cairn, the grave of her son.
For some time, noted that Willie enflaquecía and Abner noted, but men do not understand the creatures,
and also was annoyed traveling with so many people and in such conditions.

It happened that after spending Sweetwater, she was walking one night
beside the chariot and watching the twinkling of the stars, when he
heard a little voice saying, - Mother! - ran into the wagon and saw
that Willie slept restlessly and would not wake; a moment later he
heard the same dull voice repeated: - Mother! - returned to the carriage,
bent the little boy and got his breath on my face and covered it again
and again as he could just starting beside him, asking God to cure
him, and with eyes raised to sky, heard the same voice, and lifeless,
which called for the third time: - Mother! - and then a large and
bright star crossed the room, away from her sisters, and died, and
sensed what had happened and ran to the wagon again, just to shake
on his aching heart a contorted face and cold as marble.

At this point, led the her thin hands and eyes reddened and for some moments silent. A gust
wind blew furiously round the house and gave a violent onslaught
against the door input, while Ingomar the Barbarian, on his bed of
skins of the back, snoring with beatific placidity.

Naturally, the value and power of her husband would always find protection
against the aggressions and outrages of all kinds.

That had to say it clear! When Ingomar was with her, not afraid of anything, but it was very nervous,
and one day gave him a regular fright.

How?

It was in the early days of his stay in California. Had established a house of drinks and spirits
and soft drinks sold for interns. Abner was hospitable, and drank with everybody by the lure of popularity
and business, to Ingomar started to like liquor and ended to take excessive indulgence. One
night I had a lot of people and noise in the canteen, she came to him out of there, but only succeeded
in awakening the coarse gallantry of the rioters semiborrachos, and when they finally got
it to his room and his frightened children, he dropped to the bed as dormant, which made him
believe that the liquor was a narcotic. And she sat beside him throughout the night without
closing his eyes. At dawn he heard footsteps in the corridor, facing the door and saw that
rose quietly latch, as if trying to open the door, shook her husband to wake him, but in vain,
finally, the door gave way little by little above (below had bolted
the gate) as a gradual outward push, and a hand was introduced by
the slit.

Driven by a strange impulse, she rose like a flash, nailing the hand against the door with
their scissors (her only weapon), but the tip was broken and the
attacker escaped by throwing a terrible curse.

Never mentioned it to her husband, for fear of killing someone, but one day the inn was a foreigner,
and by serving coffee, saw him on the back of the hand strange scar.

We continued talking for a while, the wind still blowing, and Ingomar snoring in his bed fur, as echoed
in the street wheels and horseshoes and the neighing of horses.

It was the diligence of the mail. Partenia ran to awaken Ingomar, and almost simultaneously
the gallant conductor appeared to me, calling me by name and invited
me to drink a mysterious bottle she carried.

Quickly watered the horses, he finished his task the driver and leave
of Partenia, I took my place in the diligence.

I was then deeply asleep to dream I visited Partenia and Ingomar,
and was feted with cake at their discretion, until the next morning
I woke up in Sacramento.

I could not say if this was a dream, but never witnessed the drama or hear the sentence referring
to two noble souls ... without thinking of Wingdam caterers.

CALAVERAS MORENO

Just arrived Wingdam diligence.

The courteous and polite conversation and the absence of cigarette
smoke and boot heels in the windows of the carriage, indicated clearly
that it housed a woman in her interior.

And care and composure that displayed the loafers who stood before the windows, as inveterate habit,
arranging hats and ties, also indicated the woman was beautiful, all of which watched from
the bench, Mr. James Melin, smiling philosophical. In truth, it was not to despise the sex,
but he acknowledged in an element misleading, separated man whose pursuit of no less fickle
blandishments of poker [10] in which we can say that Don James Melin was accomplished teacher.

So,
when he placed his narrow boot on the wheel to get off, not even glanced toward the door where
a veil fluttering green but up and down haraganeó neglect and indifference that tone, which is perhaps
the feature of class. His grave clothes and had a quiet continent marked contrast with noisy
feverish restlessness and excitement of the other passengers, and
I'm still convinced that same Master, graduated from Harvard, with
his careless dress and exuberant vitality, her long speeches about
the disorder and barbarism and his mouth full of biscuits and cheese,
represented a poor role alongside this lonely calculator lots, with
his pale face and Greek their ladylike restraint.

The overseer was heard the cry: "The car, gentlemen," and Mr. Melin came to take his place. He was
already standing on the wheel and face the run-level window when his eyes suddenly found themselves
with others who seemed the most beautiful in the world. He got out again quietly addressed
a few words to one of the passengers, and making him a seat change,
quietly took his unparalleled inside, for Don James not tolerate that
his philosophy to hinder the prompt and decisive action is always
appropriate.

I believe that this eruption of James breathed a reservation in the other passengers, particularly
in those who sought to become more pleasing to the fair sex. Immediately one of them lady leaned
veil, and apparently the only reported an epithet of the profession Don James. If Don James heard
and whether the respondent recognized a distinguished lawyer, to which, a few nights before, had won
several thousand dollars, I could not say for sure for his impassive face revealed no hint
of it. His dark eyes, coldly observers turned to indifference, from the gentleman run on forensic
and rested for Finally, on the most enjoyable features of your neighbor. The dose of stoicism
Indian attributed to him as inheritance from their maternal ancestors, Prestol invaluable
services until the grinding wheels spun on the gravel of the river at the ford Scott, and diligence
stopped at the lunch, at the International Hotel. The distinguished jurist and a deputy of the camera
jumped down and stood by the door ready to help the deity in its descent, while Col. Estrella
Siskyon, loaded with his umbrella and hand bag. This multiplicity of gallantry was confusion
and momentary delay. James Melin then quietly opened the door opposite diligence, took her
hand to the lady, with that decision and that a sex uncertain security and insecure knows admire,
and in an instant descendiola to the ground. Yuba-Bill, the coachman, from the sidewalk where
he was, could not suppress a laugh.

- Be careful with that baggage, colonel - said the driver affected application, following with
the view of Col. Estrella, who walked sadly to the rear of the triumphant
procession.

Don James did not stop to eat. His horse was waiting and all its trappings.

Riding quickly climbed the sandy shore and disappeared into the dusty perspective Wingdam Road
and hurried to get away from it a disagreeable idea. The humble people inhabiting the dusty huts
near the road, he covered his eyes with his hands to look at him and followed him with his eyes,
recognizing the man for his horse, preguntábanse what would happen to the Comanche James to
take such rapid career.

However, this interest focused primarily on the horse, which had nothing in particular in
a neighborhood where race mare covered by the French judge Pitt to escape from Calaveras eclipsed
all interest for the term fatal character so worthy and meritorious.

Don Jacobo Realizing sweat that bathed the sides of his gray horse, restrained, finally, its speed,
and introducing the animal on a trail that served as a shortcut, took a trot, leaving the
reins hanging carelessly from his hands. As he advanced the road varies the appearance of the
landscape, becoming more colorful. Descubríanse by between clearings in the groves of pines
and sycamores, some crude culture assays, a strain flowering climbing the door of a hut and a woman
cradled her child under the roses carpeted another rustic hut. A few feet away, Don James reached
some children with bare legs, stirred the waters of the stream beneath the willows, and familiarized
so with them, thanks to its peculiar speech, which were quite daring for subírsele by the horse's
legs to the chair, and had at last that affect an overly expensive fierce and get out leaving
behind some coins when he wanted to get rid of them. Well into and in dense forests, where there
was no trace of room, began to sing, modulating a tenor voice of singular sweetness and pattus
so soft and tender, that pitirrojos and suckers had stopped to listen to their notes. The voice
of Don James was not a cultivated voice. The theme of his song, love wandering black workers taken
had a something touching and intimate expression of a feeling penetrated indefinable. It was
curious spectacle, indeed, of this thug with a deck in his pocket and a revolver his belt,
sending front yes, through the thick woods, his voice soft moans on the 'Tomb of Nelly "in
a way that would tear his eyes swept over of a sensitive spirit. A hawk that had just caught devour
her victim, was set in James Melin with surprise because he had probably recognize some degree of
kinship, while the superiority of men, because with a higher capacity
for prey he does not sing songs was possible.

Don James back on the road, started up again quickly.

Crumbling wall pieces, arid slopes, tree trunks that happened to forests and gullies, indicating
the proximity of man. Rose to view a bell: he already reached the end of their journey. Shortly
after the footsteps resounded from his horse by a narrow street that was lost at the foot
of the hill, in a chaotic ruin ditches and aqueducts, and dismounted before the gilded windows
of a regal bar. After crossing the long Magnolia Hall ship, pushed a screen, entered a dark passage,
opened with key master a door, and found in a room dimly lit, whose furniture, though elegant and
price for the town, showed signs of neglect. The center console was cover discs or patches, which
had not entered into the original design, embroidered chairs, faded by time, and the green
velvet sofa on which he dropped Don James were stained by the red clay road. Don James, in
his cage, and did not sing, and lying motionless on his head looked in garish painting of a nymph
or goddess mythology. Perhaps the first time, it occurred that he
had never seen a woman Similarly, if I saw that probably will not
fall for it.

I should be unworthy indeed of the trust which this affectionate girl has placed in me, if
I failed to receive her explanation of her conduct toward Philip Dunboyne, as a sacred secret
confided to my fatherly regard. In those later portions of her letter, which are not addressed
to me confidentially, Eunice writes as follows:

"I get news--and what heartbreaking news!--of my father, by sending a messenger to Selina.
It is more than ever impossible that I can put myself in the way of seeing Helena again. She
has written to me about Philip, in a tone so shockingly insolent and cruel, that I have destroyed
her letter. Philip's visit to the farm, discovered I don't know how, seems to have infuriated
her. She accuses me of doing all that she might herself have done in my place, and threatens
me--No! I am afraid of the wicked whisperings of that second self of mine if I think of it.
They were near to tempting me when I read Helena's letter. But I thought of what you said,
after I had shown you my Journal; and your words took my memory back to the days when I was
happy with Philip. The trial and the terror passed away.

"Consolation has come to me from the best of good women. Mrs. Staveley writes as lovingly as
my mother might have written, if death had spared her. I have replied with all the gratitude
that I really feel, but without taking advantage of the services which she offers. Mrs. Staveley
has it in her mind, as you had it in your mind, to bring Philip back to me. Does she forget,
do you forget, that Helena claims him? But you both mean kindly, and I love you both for the
interest that you feel in me.

"The farmer's wife--dear good soul!--hardly understands me so well as her husband does. She
confesses to pitying Philip. 'He is so wretched,' she says. 'And, dear heart, how handsome,
and what nice, winning manners! I don't think I should have had your courage, in your place.
To tell the truth, I should have jumped for joy when I saw him at the door; and I should have
run down to let him in--and perhaps been sorry for it afterward. If you really wish to forget
him, my dear, I will do all I can to help you.'

"These are trifling things to mention, but I am afraid you may think I am unhappy--and I want
to prevent that.

"I have so much to be thankful for, and the children are so fond of me. Whether I teach them
as well as I might have done, if I had been a more learned girl, may perhaps be doubtful. They
do more for their governess, I am afraid, than their governess does for them. When they come
into my room in the morning, and rouse me with their kisses, the hour of waking, which used
to be so hard to endure after Philip left me, is now the happiest hour of my day."

With that reassuring view of her life as a governess, the poor child's letter comes to an end.

CHAPTER LI. THE TRIUMPH OF MRS. TENBRUGGEN.

Miss Jillgall appears again, after an interval, on the field of my extracts. My pleasant friend
deserves this time a serious reception. She informs me that Mrs. Tenbruggen has begun the inquiries
which I have the best reason to dread--for I alone know the end which they are designed to reach.

The arrival of this news affected me in two different ways.

It was discouraging to find that circumstances had not justified my reliance on Helena's enmity
as a counter-influence to Mrs. Tenbruggen. On the other hand, it was a relief to be assured
that my return to London would serve, rather than compromise, the interests which it was my
chief anxiety to defend. I had foreseen that Mrs. Tenbruggen would wait to set her enterprise
on foot, until I was out of her way; and I had calculated on my absence as an event which would
at least put an end to suspense by encouraging her to begin.

The first sentences in Miss Jillgall's letter explain the nature of her interest in the proceedings
of her friend, and are, on that account, worth reading.

"Things are sadly changed for the worse" (Selina writes); "but I don't forget that Philip was
once engaged to Euneece, and that Mr. Gracedieu's extraordinary conduct toward him puzzled
us all. The mode of discovery which dear Elizabeth suggested by letter, at that time, appears
to be the mode which she is following now. When I asked why, she said: 'Philip may return to
Euneece; the Minister may recover--and will be all the more likely to do so if he tries Massage.
In that case, he will probably repeat the conduct which surprised you; and your natural curiosity
will ask me again to find out what it means. Am I your friend, Selina, or am I not?' This was
so delightfully kind, and so irresistibly conclusive, that I kissed her in a transport of gratitude.
With what breathless interest I have watched her progress toward penetrating the mystery of
the girls' ages, it is quite needless to tell you."

.......

Mrs. Tenbruggen's method of keeping Miss Jillgall in ignorance of what she was really about,
and Miss Jillgall's admirable confidence in the integrity of Mrs. Tenbruggen, being now set
forth on the best authority, an exact presentation of the state of affairs will be completed
if I add a word more, relating to the positions actually occupied toward Mrs. Tenbruggen's
enterprise, by my correspondent and myself.

On her side, Miss Jillgall was entirely ignorant that one of the two girls was not Mr. Gracedieu's
daughter, but his adopted child. On my side, I was entirely ignorant of Mrs. Tenbruggen's purpose
in endeavoring to identify the daughter of the murderess. Speaking of myself, individually,
let me add that I only waited the event to protect the helpless ones--my poor demented friend,
and the orphan whom his mercy received into his heart and his home.

Miss Jillgall goes on with her curious story, as follows:

.......

"Always desirous of making myself useful, I thought I would give my dear Elizabeth a hint which
might save time and trouble. 'Why not begin,' I suggested, 'by asking the Governor to help
you?' That wonderful woman never forgets anything. She had already applied to you, without success.

"In my next attempt to be useful, I did violence to my most cherished convictions, by presenting
the wretch Helena to the admirable Elizabeth. That the former would be cold as ice, in her
reception of any friend of mine, was nothing wonderful. Mrs. Tenbruggen passed it over with
the graceful composure of a woman of the world. In the course of conversation with Helena,
she slipped in a question: 'Might I ask if you are older than your sister?' The answer was,
of course: 'I don't know.' And here, for once, the most deceitful girl in existence spoke the
truth.

"When we were alone again, Elizabeth made a remark: 'If personal appearance could decide the
question,' she said, 'the disagreeable young woman is the oldest of the two. The next thing
to be done is to discover if looks are to be trusted in this case.'

"My friend's lawyer received confidential instructions (not shown to me, which seems rather
hard) to trace the two Miss Gracedieus' registers of birth. Elizabeth described this proceeding
(not very intelligibly to my mind) as a means of finding out which of the girls could be identified
by name as the elder of the two.

"The report arrived this morning. I was only informed that the result, in one case, had entirely
defeated the inquiries. In the other case, Elizabeth had helped her agent by referring him
to a Birth, advertised in the customary columns of the Times newspaper. Even here, there was
a fatal obstacle. The name of the place in which Mr. Gracedieu's daughter had been born was
not added, as usual. I still tried to be useful. Had my friend known the Minister's wife? My
friend had never even seen the Minister's wife. And, as if by a fatality, her portrait was
no longer in existence. I could only mention that Helena was like her mother. But Elizabeth
seemed to attach very little importance to my evidence, if I may call it by so grand a name.
'People have such strange ideas about likenesses,' she said, 'and arrive at such contradictory
conclusions. One can only trust one's own eyes in a matter of that kind.'

"My friend next asked me about our domestic establishment. We had only a cook and a housemaid.
If they were old servants who had known the girls as children, they might be made of some use.
Our luck was as steadily against us as ever. They had both been engaged when Mr. Gracedieu
assumed his new pastoral duties, after having resided with his wife at her native place.

"I asked Elizabeth what she proposed to do next.

"She deferred her answer, until I had first told her whether the visit of the doctor might
be expected on that day. I could reply to this in the negative. Elizabeth, thereupon, made
a startling request; she begged me to introduce her to Mr. Gracedieu.

"I said: 'Surely, you have forgotten the sad state of his mind?' No; she knew perfectly well
that he was imbecile. 'I want to try,' she explained, 'if I can rouse him for a few minutes.'

"'By Massage?' I inquired.

"She burst out laughing. 'Massage, my dear, doesn't act in that way. It is an elaborate process,
pursued patiently for weeks together. But my hands have more than one accomplishment at their
finger-ends. Oh, make your mind easy! I shall do no harm, if I do no good. Take me, Selina,
to the Minister.'

"We went to his room. Don't blame me for giving way; I am too fond of Elizabeth to be able
to disappoint her.

"It was a sad sight when we went in. He was quite happy, playing like a child, at cup-and-ball.
The attendant retired at my request. I introduced Mrs. Tenbruggen. He smiled and shook hands
with her. He said: 'Are you a Christian or a Pagan? 

A terrible scene, through an oversight of Philip, took place. He surprised his wife with dear
... Great was the scandal that circulated throughout the Court, and great was the work cost him
the fury of his wife tarnished because this was not thinking more than in the revenge. And
something admirable about this woman! ... This revenge was involved did not want his husband,
as though he had come to notice the indifference and disdain that used to treat, however idolized
him wholeheartedly. Feeling a little uneasy, I went upstairs again and looked into the
room. He was leaning back in his chair; his plaything was on the floor, and he was looking
vacantly at the light that came in through the window. I found Mrs. Tenbruggen at the other
end of the room, in the act of ringing the bell. Nothing in the least out of the ordinary way
seemed to have happened. When the attendant had answered the bell, we left the room together.
Mr. Gracedieu took no notice of us.

"'Well,' I said, 'how has it ended?'

"Quite calmly my noble Elizabeth answered: 'In total failure.'

"'What did you say to him after you sent me away?'

"'I tried, in every possible way, to get him to tell me which of his two daughters was the oldest.'

"'Did he refuse to answer?'

"'He was only too ready to answer. Large door in the background. Side doors. It is night. Roars
the storm. Deep dark, sometimes illuminated by vivid lightning. Much thunder.

SCENE

Ms comes dressed in costume Brianda mid-fifteenth century,
and with a candle in his hand. He rang the changes on
those two names, I can't tell you how often, and seemed to think it a better game than cup-and-ball.'

"'What is to be done?'

"'Nothing is to be done, Selina.'

"'What!' I cried, 'you give it up?'

"My heroic friend answered: 'I know when I am beaten, my dear--I give it up.' She looked at
her watch; it was time to operate on the muscles of one of her patients. Away she went, on
her glorious mission of Massage, without a murmur of regret. What strength of mind! But, oh,
dear, what a disappointment for poor little me! On one thing I am determined. If I find myself
getting puzzled or frightened, I shall instantly write to you." 

Don Paco, as stated, was an encyclopedic man of many skills and abilities; the right hand of
the chief and subordinate intelligence that made the place the sovereign the chief will be respected
and fulfilled.

There was, however, Villalegre another person, that smaller and smaller area terms, if not competing, was
very close to Don Paco merit by the multitude of their knowledge
and skills and is hardworking and ready he was.

I speak here of the famous Juana la Larga. Seems impossible that this
woman manages to do While many different things. She worked hard,
but there is no denying that with fruit. Had home, despite no winery
and cellar, but the rest almost as good as Don Paco.
He is as weak as a woman; I threw him into hysterics, and had to give it up, and quiet him,
or he would have alarmed the house. You look as if you don't believe in mesmerism."

"My looks, Mrs. Tenbruggen, exactly express my opinion. Mesmerism is a humbug!"

"You amusing old Tory! Shall I throw you into a state of trance? No! I'll give you a shock
of another kind--a shock of surprise. I know as much as you do about Mr. Gracedieu's daughters.
What do you think of that?"

"I think I should like to hear you tell me, which is the adopted child."

"Helena, to be sure!"

Her manner was defiant, her tone was positive; I doubted both. Under the surface of her assumed
confidence, I saw something which told me that she was trying to read my thoughts in my face.
Many other women had tried to do that. They succeeded when I was young. When I had reached
the wrong side of fifty, my face had learned discretion, and they failed.

"How did you arrive at your discovery?" I asked. "I know of nobody who could have helped you."

"I helped myself, sir! I reasoned it out. A wonderful thing for a woman to do, isn't it? I
wonder whether you could follow the process?"

My reply to this was made by a bow. I was sure of my command over my face; but perfect control
of the voice is a rare power. Here and there, a great actor or a great criminal possesses it.

Mrs. Tenbruggen's vanity took me into her confidence. "In the first place," she said, "Helena
is plainly the wicked one of the two. I was not prejudiced by what Selina had told me of her:
I saw it, and felt it, before I had been five minutes in her company. If lying tongues ever
provoke her as lying tongues provoked her mother, she will follow her mother's example. Very
well. Now--in the second place--though it is very slight, there is a certain something in her
hair and her complexion which reminds me of the murderess: there is no other resemblance, I
admit. In the third place, the girls' names point to the same conclusion. Mr. Gracedieu is
a Protestant and a Dissenter. Would he call a child of his own by the name of a Roman Catholic
saint? No! he would prefer a name in the Bible; Eunice is his child. And Helena was once the
baby whom I carried into the prison. Do you deny that?"

"I don't deny it."

Only four words! But they were deceitfully spoken, and the deceit--practiced in Eunice's interest,
it is needless to say--succeeded. Mrs. Tenbruggen's object in visiting me was attained; I had
confirmed her belief in the delusion that Helena was the adopted child.

She got up to take her leave. I asked if she proposed remaining in London. No; she was returning
to her country patients that night.

As I attended her to the house-door, she turned to me with her mischievous smile. "I have taken
some trouble in finding the clew to the Minister's mystery," she said. "Don't you wonder why?"

"If I did wonder," I answered, "would you tell me why?"

She laughed at the bare idea of it. "Another lesson," she said, "to assist a helpless man in
studying the weaker sex. I have already shown you that a woman can reason. Learn next that
a woman can keep a secret. Good-by. God bless you!"

Of the events which followed Mrs. Tenbruggen's visit it is not possible for me, I am thankful
to say, to speak from personal experience. Ought I to conclude with an expression of repentance
for the act of deception to which I have already pleaded guilty? I don't know. Yes! the force
of circumstances does really compel me to say it, and say it seriously--I declare, on my word
of honor, I don't know.

Third period: 1876. HELENA'S DIARY RESUMED.

CHAPTER LII. HELENA'S DIARY RESUMED.

While my father remains in his present helpless condition, somebody must assume a position
of command in this house. There cannot be a moment's doubt that I am the person to do it.

In my agitated state of mind, sometimes doubtful of Philip, sometimes hopeful of him, I find
Mrs. Tenbruggen simply unendurable. A female doctor is, under any circumstances, a creature
whom I detest. She is, at her very best, a bad imitation of a man. The Medical Rubber is worse
than this; she is a bad imitation of a mountebank. Her grinning good-humor, adopted no doubt
to please the fools who are her patients, and her impudent enjoyment of hearing herself talk,
make me regret for the first time in my life that I am a young lady. If I belonged to the lowest
order of the population, I might take the first stick I could find, and enjoy the luxury of
giving Mrs. Tenbruggen a good beating.

She literally haunts the house, encouraged, of course, by her wretched little dupe, Miss Jillgall.
Only this morning, I tried what a broad hint would do toward suggesting that her visits had
better come to an end.

"Really, Mrs. Tenbruggen," I said, "I must request Miss Jillgall to moderate her selfish enjoyment
of your company, for your own sake. Your time is too valuable, in a professional sense, to
be wasted on an idle woman who has no sympathy with your patients, waiting for relief perhaps,
and waiting in vain."

She listened to this, all smiles and good-humor: "My dear, do you know how I might answer you,
if I was an ill-natured woman?"

"I have no curiosity to hear it, Mrs. Tenbruggen."

"I might ask you," she persisted, "to allow me to mind my own business. But I am incapable
of making an ungrateful return for the interest which you take in my medical welfare. Let me
venture to ask if you understand the value of time."

"Are you going to say much more, Mrs. Tenbruggen?"

"I am going to make a sensible remark, my child. If you feel tired, permit me--here is a chair.
Father Time, dear Miss Gracedieu, has always been a good friend of mine, because I know how
to make the best use of him. The author of the famous saying Tempus fugit (you understand Latin,
of course) was, I take leave to think, an idle man. The more I have to do, the readier Time
is to wait for me. Let me impress this on your mind by some interesting examples. The greatest
conqueror of the century--Napoleon--had time enough for everything. The greatest novelist of
the century--Sir Walter Scott--had time enough for everything. At my humble distance, I imitate
those illustrious men, and my patients never complain of me."

"Have you done?" I asked.

"Yes, dear--for the present."

"You are a clever woman, Mrs. Tenbruggen and you know it. You have an eloquent tongue, and
you know it. But you are something else, which you don't seem to be aware of. You are a Bore."

She burst out laughing, with the air of a woman who thoroughly enjoyed a good joke. I looked
back when I left the room, and saw the friend of Father Time in the easy chair opening our
newspaper.

This is a specimen of the customary encounter of our wits. I place it on record in my Journal,
to excuse myself to myself. When she left us at last, later in the day, I sent a letter after
her to the hotel. Not having kept a copy of it, let me present the substance, like a sermon,
under three heads: I begged to be excused for speaking plainly; I declared that there was a
total want of sympathy between us, on my side; and I proposed that she should deprive me of
future opportunities of receiving her in this house. The reply arrived immediately in these
terms: "Your letter received, dear girl. I am not in the least angry; partly because I am very
fond of you, partly because I know that you will ask me to come back again. P. S.: Philip sends
his love."

This last piece of insolence was unquestionably a lie. Philip detests her. They are both staying
at the same hotel. But I happen to know that he won't even look at her, if they meet by accident
on the stairs.

People who can enjoy the melancholy spectacle of human nature in a state of degradation would
be at a loss which exhibition to prefer--an ugly old maid in a rage, or an ugly old maid in
tears. Miss Jillgall presented herself in both characters when she heard what had happened.
To my mind, Mrs. Tenbruggen's bosom-friend is a creature not fit to be seen or heard when she
loses her temper. I only told her to leave the room. To my great amusement, she shook her bony
fist at me, and expressed a frantic wish: "Oh, if I was rich enough to leave this wicked house!"
I wonder whether there is insanity (as well as poverty) in Miss Jillgall's family?

Last night my mind was in a harassed state. Philip was, as usual, the cause of it.

Perhaps I acted indiscreetly when I insisted on his leaving London, and returning to this place.
But what else could I have done? It was not merely my interest, it was an act of downright
necessity, to withdraw him from the influence of his hateful father--whom I now regard as the
one serious obstacle to my marriage. There is no prospect of being rid of Mr. Dunboyne the
elder by his returning to Ireland. He is trying a new remedy for his crippled hand--electricity.
I wish it was lightning, to kill him! If I had given that wicked old man the chance, I am firmly
convinced he would not have let a day pass without doing his best to depreciate me in his son's
estimation. Besides, there was the risk, if I had allowed Philip to remain long away from me,
of losing--no, while I keep my beauty I cannot be in such danger as that--let me say, of permitting
time and absence to weaken my hold on him. However sullen and silent he may be, when we meet--and
I find him in that condition far too often--I can, sooner or later, recall him to his brighter
self. My eyes preserve their charm, my talk can still amuse him, and, better even than that,
I feel the answering thrill in him, which tells me how precious my kisses are--not too lavishly
bestowed! But the time when I am obliged to leave him to himself is the time that I dread.
How do I know that his thoughts are not wandering away to Eunice? He denies it; he declares
that he only went to the farmhouse to express his regret for his own thoughtless conduct, and
to offer her the brotherly regard due to the sister of his promised wife. Can I believe it?
Oh, what would I not give to be able to believe it! How can I feel sure that her refusal to
see him was not a cunning device to make him long for another interview, and plan perhaps in
private to go back and try again. Marriage! Nothing will quiet these frightful doubts of mine,
nothing will reward me for all that I have suffered, nothing will warm my heart with the delightful
sense of triumph over Eunice, but my marriage to Philip. And what does he say, when I urge
it on him?--yes, I have fallen as low as that, in the despair which sometimes possesses me.
He has his answer, always the same, and always ready: "How are we to live? where is the money?"
The maddening part of it is that I cannot accuse him of raising objections that don't exist.
We are poorer than ever here, since my father's illness--and Philip's allowance is barely enough
to suffice him as a single man. Oh, how I hate the rich!

It was useless to think of going to bed. How could I hope to sleep, with my head throbbing,
and my thoughts in this disturbed state? I put on my comfortable dressing-gown, and sat down
to try what reading would do to quiet my mind.

I had borrowed the book from the Library, to which I have been a subscriber in secret for some
time past. It was an old volume, full of what we should now call Gossip; relating strange adventures,
and scandalous incidents in family history which had been concealed from public notice.

One of these last romances in real life caught a strong hold on my interest.

It was a strange case of intended poisoning, which had never been carried out. A young married
lady of rank, whose name was concealed under an initial letter, had suffered some unendurable
wrong (which was not mentioned) at the hands of her husband's mother. The wife was described
as a woman of strong passions, who had determined on a terrible revenge by taking the life
of her mother-in-law. There were difficulties in the way of her committing the crime without
an accomplice to help her; and she decided on taking her maid, an elderly woman, into her confidence.
The poison was secretly obtained by this person; and the safest manner of administering it
was under discussion between the mistress and the maid, when the door of the room was suddenly
opened. The husband, accompanied by his brother, rushed in, and charged his wife with plotting
the murder of his mother. The young lady (she was only twenty-three) must have been a person
of extraordinary courage and resolution. She saw at once that her maid had betrayed her, and,
with astonishing presence of mind, she turned on the traitress, and said to her husband: "There
is the wretch who has been trying to persuade me to poison your mother!" As it happened, the
old lady's temper was violent and overbearing; and the maid had complained of being ill-treated
by her, in the hearing of the other servants. The circumstances made it impossible to decide
which of the two was really the guilty woman. The servant was sent away, and the husband and
wife separated soon afterward, under the excuse of incompatibility of temper. Years passed;
and the truth was only discovered by the death-bed confession of the wife. A remarkable story,
which has made such an impression on me that I have written it in my Journal. I am not rich
enough to buy the book.

For the last two days, I have been confined to my room with a bad feverish cold--caught, as
I suppose, by sitting at an open window reading my book till nearly three o'clock in the morning.
I sent a note to Philip, telling him of my illness. On the first day, he called to inquire
after me. On the second day, no visit, and no letter. Here is the third day--and no news of
him as yet. I am better, but not fit to go out. Let me wait another hour, and, if that exertion
of patience meets with no reward, I shall send a note to the hotel. No news of Philip. I have
sent to the hotel. The servant has just returned, bringing me back my note. The waiter informed
her that Mr. Dunboyne had gone away to London by the morning train. No apology or explanation
left for me.

Can he have deserted me? I am in such a frenzy of doubt and rage that I can hardly write that
horrible question. Is it possible--oh, I feel it is possible that he has gone away with Eunice.
Do I know where to find them? if I did know, what could I do? I feel as if I could kill them both!

CHAPTER LIII. HELENA'S DIARY RESUMED.

After the heat of my anger had cooled, I made two discoveries. One cost me a fee to a messenger,
and the other exposed me to the insolence of a servant. I pay willingly in my purse and my
pride, when the gain is peace of mind. Through my messenger I ascertained that Eunice had never
left the farm. Through my own inquiries, answered by the waiter with an impudent grin, I heard
that Philip had left orders to have his room kept for him. What misery our stupid housemaid
might have spared me, if she had thought of putting that question when I sent her to the hotel!

The rest of the day passed in vain speculations on Philip's motive for this sudden departure.
What poor weak creatures we are! I persuaded myself to hope that anxiety for our marriage had
urged him to make an effort to touch the heart of his mean father. Shall I see him to-morrow?
And shall I have reason to be fonder of him than ever?

We met again to-day as usual. He has behaved infamously.

When I asked what had been his object in going to London, I was told that it was "a matter
of business." He made that idiotic excuse as coolly as if he really thought I should believe
it. I submitted in silence, rather than mar his return to me by the disaster of a quarrel.
But this was an unlucky day. A harder trial of my self-control was still to come. Without the
slightest appearance of shame, Philip informed me that he was charged with a message from Mrs.
Tenbruggen! She wanted some Irish lace, and would I be so good as to tell her which was the
best shop at which she could buy it?

Was he really in earnest? "You," I said, "who distrusted and detested her--you are on friendly
terms with that woman?"

He remonstrated with me. "My dear Helena, don't speak in that way of Mrs. Tenbruggen. We have
both been mistaken about her. That good creature has forgiven the brutal manner in which I
spoke to her, when she was in attendance on my father. She was the first to propose that we
should shake hands and forget it. My darling, don't let all the good feeling be on one side.
You have no idea how kindly she speaks of you, and how anxious she is to help us to be married.
Come! come! meet her half-way. Write down the name of the shop on my card, and I will take
it back to her."

Sheer amazement kept me silent: I let him go on. He was a mere child in the hands of Mrs. Tenbruggen:
she had only to determine to make a fool of him, and she could do it.

But why did she do it? What advantage had she to gain by insinuating herself in this way into
his good opinion, evidently with the intention of urging him to reconcile us to each other?
How could we two poor young people be of the smallest use to the fashionable Masseuse?

My silence began to irritate Philip. "I never knew before how obstinate you could be," he said;
"you seem to be doing your best--I can't imagine why--to lower yourself in my estimation."

I held my tongue; I assumed my smile. It is all very well for men to talk about the deceitfulness
of women. What chance (I should like to ask somebody who knows about it) do the men give us
of making our lives with them endurable, except by deceit! I gave way, of course, and wrote
down the address of the shop.

He was so pleased that he kissed me. Yes! the most fondly affectionate kiss that he had given
me, for weeks past, was my reward for submitting to Mrs. Tenbruggen. She is old enough to be
his mother, and almost as ugly as Miss Jillgall--and she has made her interests his interests
already!

On the next day, I fully expected to receive a visit from Mrs. Tenbruggen. She knew better
than that. I only got a polite little note, thanking me for the address, and adding an artless
concession: "I earn more money than I know what to do with; and I adore Irish lace."

The next day came, and still she was careful not to show herself too eager for a personal reconciliation.
A splendid nosegay was sent to me, with another little note: "A tribute, dear Helena, offered
by one of my grateful patients. Too beautiful a present for an old woman like me. I agree with
the poet: 'Sweets to the sweet.' A charming thought of Shakespeare's, is it not? I should like
to verify the quotation. Would you mind leaving the volume for me in the hall, if I call to-morrow?"

Well done, Mrs. Tenbruggen! She doesn't venture to intrude on Miss Gracedieu in the drawing-room;
she only wants to verify a quotation in the hall. Oh, goddess of Humility (if there is such
a person), how becomingly you are dressed when your milliner is an artful old woman!

While this reflection was passing through my mind, Miss Jillgall came in--saw the nosegay on
the table--and instantly pounced on it. "Oh, for me! for me!" she cried. "I noticed it this
morning on Elizabeth's table. How very kind of her!" She plunged her inquisitive nose into
the poor flowers, and looked up sentimentally at the ceiling. "The perfume of goodness," she
remarked, "mingled with the perfume of flowers!" "When you have quite done with it," I said,
"perhaps you will be so good as to return my nosegay?" "Your nosegay!" she exclaimed. "There
is Mrs. Tenbruggen's letter," I replied, "if you would like to look at it." She did look at
it. All the bile in her body flew up into her eyes, and turned them green; she looked as if
she longed to scratch my face. I gave the flowers afterward to Maria; Miss Jillgall's nose
had completely spoiled them.

It would have been too ridiculous to have allowed Mrs. Tenbruggen to consult Shakespeare in
the hall. I had the honor of receiving her in my own room. We accomplished a touching reconciliation,
and we quite forgot Shakespeare.

She troubles me; she does indeed trouble me.

Having set herself entirely right with Philip, she is determined on performing the same miracle
with me. Her reform of herself is already complete. Her vulgar humor was kept under strict
restraint; she was quiet and well-bred, and readier to listen than to talk. This change was
not presented abruptly. She contrived to express her friendly interests in Philip and in me
by hints dropped here and there, assisted in their effort by answers on my part, into which
I was tempted so skillfully that I only discovered the snare set for me, on reflection. What
is it, I ask again, that she has in view in taking all this trouble? Where is her motive for
encouraging a love-affair, which Miss Jillgall must have denounced to her as an abominable
wrong inflicted on Eunice? Money (even if there was a prospect of such a thing, in our case)
cannot be her object; it is quite true that her success sets her above pecuniary anxiety. 

PRODIGAL SON OF MR THOMAS

Everyone knew that Mr. Thomas was looking for his son, and indeed
this was a good knave.

So it was no secret to his traveling companions, who came to California
with the sole to effect its capture.

Frankly and honestly, we put the father-to-date and the physical peculiarities, as the moral
failings of the absent child.

- It told you of a young Red-Dog hanged for stealing a reef? - Said one day Mr Thomas to a
steam passenger .-- Do you remember the color of your eyes?

- Black
- said the passenger.

- Ah, - said Mr. Thomas, as he refers to a
mental memo - the eyes of Carlos were blue.

And walked away immediately. Perhaps as little sympathetic system or for such investigations Western
willingness to take a joke any principle or sentiment that is displayed
with excessive persistence, Mr Thomas's research on the subject awoke
the mood of the passengers of the ship.

Privately Circulose including a free listing on this Carlos, addressed to Jailers and Guardian,
and everyone remembered seeing Carlos in painful circumstances, but on behalf of my countrymen
I must confess that, when it emerged that a large sum earmarked Thomas to justify the project,
just quietly followed the jokes, and nothing was said, while he could hear, he was able to grieve
the heart of a father, or to endanger the benefit they could expect the pranksters of all stripes.
The proposition of Mr. Adolfo Tibet made jokingly, to establish a
company in partnership, with the aim of finding the Young lost, won,
in principle, favorable reception.

Psychologically considered, the character of Mr. Thomas was not polite nor worthy of attention. His background,
as he himself informed a day at the table, denoting a temperament practical, even in the midst
of his escapades.

He had a rough youth and middle age and willing, during which he had buried his wife dislikes,
and forced to engage your child, suddenly felt a strong vocation
for the cloister.

- The New Orleans grabbed the year 59 - he said
Mr. Thomas, as he refers to a epidemic .-- Pásenme chops!

Perhaps this was the practical temperament that sustained him in his seemingly fruitless inquiry. No
possessed signs of the whereabouts of his fugitive son, much less
evidence of its existence.

With the confusing and vague memory of a boy of twelve years, waiting now identify adult man.

However, he succeeded. What is never said how they got away with it. There are two versions Event.
According to one, Mr. Thomas, visiting a hospital, he discovered his son, thanks to a particular
song, who sang a sick delusional, dreaming of his childhood. This version, leading to wide field
was the most delicate feelings of the heart, became very popular, and narrated by the Rev. Mr. Esperaindeo
after returning from his tour California, never ceased to please
the audience.

The other, less simple, is that I will adopt here, and, therefore, I must tell it to stop
it deserves.

It was after Mr. Thomas gave up looking for her son among the number of live and was devoted to
examining the cemetery and carefully inspect the cold gravestones cemeteries. A day care visited
the isolated mountain top gloomy, quite dry and in its original isolation, and seems even drier
by whitish marbles that San Francisco granted asylum to those who were its citizens, and protects
them a furious wind and persistent, which is determined to spread their remains, held under the shifting
sand seems to refuse to shelter them. Against the wind, the old one will oppose no less fierce
and tenacious.

All day spent with his head hard and gray, covered by a high hat
mourning, sunk up to their ears, reading aloud the funerary inscriptions.

The Citation Scriptures liked and was happy to corroborate them with
a Bible handbook.

- That one is the psalms - said one day to a nearby
undertaker.

The silent questioned.

Without flinching in the least, Mr. Thomas slipped into the open grave,
engaging in questioning more determined.

- Have you ever encountered
in their profession with a certain Carlos Thomas?

- The devil take
Thomas! - Undertaker coldly replied.

- If you did not think religion
will already have done - the old man said, climbing out of the grave.

Perhaps this occasion to give Mr. Thomas takes more time out of the ordinary cemetery. Upon
returning from the front to the city, began to shine before it lights, and a strong wind, the
fog was sensitive, and impelled him forward, and as placed in ambush attacked him annoying from
the deserted streets of the suburbs. In one of these bends otherwise undefined and no less evil,
fell upon him with blasphemy, facing a gun and requiring the money or your life. But he found a
will iron and steel wrist: aggressor and attacked rolled seized by the soil in the same Instantly,
the old man stood up, taking a hand gun and was able to snatch with the other arm stretched out
holding the throat of a sullen young savage countenance which sought
to shed superhuman efforts.

- Young - Mr. Thomas said, pressing her
thin lips .-- What is your name?

- Thomas!

The fierce old man's hand slipped from the neck to the arm of his prisoner, but not reduce
the pressure under which he had seized.

- Carlos Thomas, come with me - he said then.

She took her captive and the hotel he was staying.

What took place there has not leaked out, but the next morning it was learned that Mr. Thomas had given
to the prodigal son.

However, neither the appearance of the manners of the young justified a keen observer the previous
narrative. Serious, reserved and dignified, and addicted body and soul to his newfound father,
accepted the benefits and responsibilities of their new status with
a certain air of formality, which resembled that needed to society
of San Francisco and she threw him.

Some wanted to dismiss this quality as a tendency to "sing psalms",
others saw in it the qualities inherited from the father, and were
ready to prophesy for the child it takes age, but everyone agreed
that it was compatible with the habits of doing money, in which father
and son had agreed in a unique way.

And yet, the old man appeared who was not happy.

Perhaps because the realization of their wishes he had left without a practical mission, perhaps,
and this is most likely, had little love for the son he had so fortunately recovered. The obedience
required of him, he was willingly granted, the conversion that had his whole soul was full,
and yet, none of this will satisfy his spirit. There complied with all requirements of their religious
duty to redeem his son, and yet, it seemed that something was missing his brilliant action.
In such a doubt, the parable of leyose Prodigal Son, who had never
lost sight of in their pilgrimage, and noted that there omitted the
final feast of reconciliation.

There seemed to be offered anything better than the desired quality the formal sacrament between
him and his son so that a year after onset Charles, was prepared to give a sumptuous feast.

- Gather, call everyone, Carlos - he said solemnly, - to let everyone
know that I have out of the depths of iniquity and the company of
pigs and women lost and Send them to eat, drink and rejoice.

I do not know if the old man had for this other reason, not analyzed yet.

The beautiful house that had built on the sandy hills, seemed lonely
sometimes and sad.

Often caught himself trying to rebuild with serious features Carlos those of one boy whose
vague recollection served him well in the past and today both worried. We imagined that this was
a sign that old age is approaching and with it a new children.

One day in her ceremonial hall gave face to face with a child of one of the servants, who ventured
to get there, and wanted to take her in his arms: but the boy fled
to his sullen and wrinkled face.

For all this, it seemed very appropriate to gather at home the good society San Francisco,
and between that exposure of young girls choose the partner of his son. Then have a grandson,
a child who raise from the beginning and who would love, as no Carlos loved.

Needless to say, we all went to the banquet.

Distinguished society that came equipped with animation that exuberance, joy and verve, without
restraint or respect for host, that most distributed as generous as possible, mainly at the expense
of the festivities. The thing had ended with scandal, actors do not
belong to higher social scale.

Indeed, Mr. Tibet, endowed by nature with witty humor and also excited
by the bright eyes of the girls Jonnes, behaved in a manner that attracted
the serious eyes of Don Carlos Thomas, who approached him, saying
almost in his ear:

- It seems that you feel bad, Mr. Tibet; let me
drive his carriage.

(Hold on dog, and I cast out the window). Around here, if you like, the room is heated and
perhaps to be harmful.

Needless to say, only a part of this speech was noticeable to society
and the rest reported Mr Tibet, feeling in his soul that his sudden
illness will deprived of what the most eccentric of the girls Jonnes,
christened "the bouquet end of the party ', and I will refer.

The event was saved for the final dinner.

Mr. Thomas was probably blind eye to the disorderly conduct of young people, absorbed in meditation
dramatic effect was in incubation.

At the time of getting the cloth, stood up and knocked on the table
solemnly.

Among girls Jonnes, began a little cough which infected all that
side of the table.

Carlos Thomas, from one end of it, looked up with tender expectation.

-
Going to sing a hymn.

- Going to pray.

- Silence!

Is a speech!

These voices turned to the room.

And Mr. Thomas began:

- One year ago today, brothers and sisters
in Christ - said with severe pause, - a year meets Today, my son returned
to run the swamps of vice and health spending their daughters sin.

The laughter stopped abruptly.

- See him now, Carlos Thomas, arise!

Carlos Thomas obeyed.

- Today a year ago and can now contemplate.

In truth, the prodigal son was a beautiful, standing there with his severe suit fashion. A repentant
prodigal, with sad eyes and obediently turned to look hard and nasty the author of his days.

Miss Smith, a cocoon of fifteen years, felt in the depths of her pure
loquillo heart an involuntary movement of sympathy for him.

- Fifteen
years ago he left my house - said Mr. Thomas, - made a spendthrift
and a rake.

But I myself was a man of sin ... Oh, friends in Christ! A man of anger and .--(« grudge Amen
"- said most of the Jonnes). But, praise God, I escaped from my own cholera. Five years I got
the peace that surpasses human understanding.

Do you have, friends?

A subcoro of "no, no, by the girls, and a" come the watchword "for the lieutenant, Coxe, of
the sloop of war the United States, The Terror, served response.

- "Knock and it shall be opened." And when I discovered the error of my way and the preciousness
of grace - continued Mr. Thomas - came to give it to my dear offspring.

I searched land and sea not faint. I did not expect him to come to me, which might have done,
to justify myself the book of books in hand, but I looked him in the mud, including pigs, y. .. (The
end of the sentence was lost by the friction of the dresses of the
ladies to retire).

Works Brothers in Christ, is my motto, "know them by their works" and there are mine, everyone
can judge the light of day.

And in saying this, Mr Thomas, gesticulating and making strange faces, staring towards an open
door to the terrace was crowded with onlookers little raised and turned now the scene of an
infernal tumult.

Amid the noise, ever increasingly, a man miserably dressed and drunk
as a soup, made his way through between those who opposed him, and
entered the room with no way secure.

The sharp contrast between the fog and the darkness outside and the
glare and heat inside dazzled him, so in his stupor he took off his
battered hat and passed one or two times before his eyes, as he maintained,
although with little security, against the back of a couch.

Suddenly his roving eye fell on the pale face of Charles Thomas, and a flash of intelligence and
weak child falsetto laugh, and fell forward, agarrose at the table,
brought down the glasses, and finally dropped to the young man's chest.

-
Carlos!

Rogue Caramba! How are you?

- Silence! Sit!

Shut up! - Said Carlos Thomas, struggling to rid themselves quickly
the embrace of his untimely visit.

- Look at him! - Continued the
stranger, ignoring the warning and most carefree.

And loving and expressive tone of admiration, and retaining the poor
Carlos with shaky wrist full of tenderness, he continued:

- Behold,
then, that rascal!

Carlos, God damn me, I'm proud of you!

- Get out of the house! - Mr. Thomas said, rising with the menacing
and cold stare of his gray eyes, and summoning of authority .-- Carlos,
how dare you ...

- Calm down, old man!

Carlos, who is that guy going? Run!

- Shut up, fool! Come, take this! - And with nervous hands full of liquor Carlos Thomas Drink
a glass .-- and go, until tomorrow ... anywhere, but let us, go away
and leave us in peace.

But before he could drink the miserable, old, white with rage, rushed
on the intruder, and grabbing it with his powerful arms and dragging
it through the group of frightened diners around them, reached the
door wide open by the servants, when Carlos Thomas exclaimed, with
an anguished cry:

- Stop!

Strikes the elderly.

Through the door wide open, the fog and the wind carried inside a cold snap.

- What does this - he asked, turning to Charles her angry face.

- Nothing!

But stop, I beg ... Wait until tomorrow, but not tonight. Not right. Please. For the love of God, do
not you do that.

In the tone of the voice of the young, or perhaps contact fighting between their miserable powerful
arms, he had a something indefinable and strange.

Anyway, a confusing terror and indefinable seized the old man's heart,
which he whispered wild:

- Who is this guy?

Carlos did not answer.

- Behind all! - A voice of thunder cried Mr. Thomas to the guests around him .-- Charles Come here!
I say to you, I ... I ... I ... I pray ... tell me who this man. Now same.

Two people, just heard the answer that came out, weak and broken, lips Charles Thomas

- IS YOUR CHILD.

* * * * * * *

The next day, when the sun had passed the barren sand hills, the guests had disappeared from
the festive halls of Mr. Thomas. The lights were still burning pale Banquet sad in deserts and
in the midst of this neglect, only three people huddled squeezed into a corner of the cold room,
forming a mass. The one lying on a couch I slept the sleep of drunkenness,
she sat at his feet we've known for Carlos Thomas and with both shrunken
and reduced to half its size figure of Mr. encorvábase Thomas, a sullen
look, elbows on knees and hands covering her ears, as to avoid the
sad, pleading voice that seemed to fill the areas of the room.

-
Well known to voluntarily not use artifice to deceive you.

The name I gave that night was the first thing that came to mind, just a name whom I thought dead,
the companion of my life dissolute libertine.

When I later you asked, I used the knowledge that he had acquired, to soften your heart and
win it for a decent life. I swear I just went for it!

And when I say who was opened for the first time I saw before me
a new life ... then ... then ... Oh, sir! yes, I was hungry, naked
and without appeal, if he steal his pocket, I felt lonely in the world,
unhappy and desperate, when I wanted to steal the tenderness of a
father in pain.

The old man remained stolid.

From their sumptuous bed, the prodigal son recovered snoring confidently.

- I had no father could claim.

I never knew another home that I had to now.

I fell into temptation.

I was so happy ... so happy!

He stood up and stood before the old.

- No matter I stand between your child and inheritance. I depart today from this place ever
return. The world is large, and, thank goodness, I now earn an honest living. Goodbye! Will not
you take my hand? ... Sea Goodbye

And he turned to leave. But when it came to the door, fell suddenly, and raising both hands
the grizzled old man's head, kissed a few more times with effusion.

- Carlos!

There was no response.

- Carlos!

The old man sat up trembling and swaying weakly ran to the door. Was open. For it came the tumult
of a great city that wakes up, and among this crowd the footsteps of the prodigal son who were lost
in the distance, forever.

MAGDALENA

The car slid painfully down the narrow road, giving frequent shocks. In Inside were seven people
who had not taken off the lips from one of those jumps came to leave
without finishing the final round of court poetry, my honorable neighbor.

Man high sitting next to him, slept with his arm hanging past the belt, and supported the head it
was like a soft object, indefinable, it seemed that it had hanged to himself, and he had cut the
rope that had been instrumental. On the seat later, the French lady dozing too, keeping an attitude
of studied restraint, view was put in the position of the dropped handkerchief on his face
half hidden ruddy face. Another lady from Virginia City, traveling with her husband, lay in
a corner, wrapped in a sea of ​​ribbons, fur and coats completely flooded him. No perceived noise
but the grating of the wheels and the rain beating the imperial when suddenly the coach stopped,
and heard voices coming up confused us. The driver held a live conversation with someone on
the road, we thought dialogue unflattering should be judged by the
words in the midst of the furious wind blowing we saw, "dragged bridge
',' flooded road," "step impossible and the like.

The most absolute silence reigned for a moment, then launched a mysterious
voice from the road this advice:

- Test at home in Magdalena.

By giving the vehicle a sharp turn, we could glimpse the front horses,
and then a rider who faded into the mist. Undoubtedly, started for
the house Magdalena.

Who was and where was Madeleine? The Judge,
our authority, said he did not remember that name, and that he knew
the entire country, the Canadian traveler would have thought that
Magdalena inn, but all I really knew was that the floodwaters had
cut us the way to the front and back, and that Magdalene was saving
our table. For space of ten minutes we were flooded by a winding road,
barely wide for diligence, and stopped in front of a barred gate and
aforrada, set to a large wall about six feet tall. This was, without
doubt, the home of Magdalena. But no doubt also, that woman had no
inn. The driver got out and fumbled the door I was firmly closed.

-
Magdalena! Magdalena!

Nobody answered.

- Magdalena! You, Magdalena!
- Continued the coachman increasingly evident irritation.

- Magdalena!
- Email persuasively added .-- Oh, Magdalene! He hired the first one on the rank, an
open chaise; while I kept myself hidden in a shop door.

The moment he started on his drive, I hired a closed cab. "Double your fare," I said to the
driver, "whatever it may be, if you follow that chaise cleverly, and do what I tell you."

He nodded and winked at me. A wicked-looking old fellow; just the man I wanted.

We followed the chaise.

CHAPTER LVI. HELENA'S DIARY RESUMED.

When we had left the town behind us, the coachman began to drive more slowly. In my ignorance,
I asked what this change in the pace meant. He pointed with his whip to the open road and to
the chaise in the distance.

"If we keep too near the gentleman, miss, he has only got to look back, and he'll see we are
following him. The safe thing to do is to let the chaise get on a bit. We can't lose sight
of it, out here."

I had felt inclined to trust in the driver's experience, and he had already justified my confidence
in him. This encouraged me to consult his opinion on a matter of some importance to my present
interests. I could see the necessity of avoiding discovery when we had followed the chaise
to its destination; but I was totally at a loss to know how it could be done. My wily old man
was ready with his advice the moment I asked for it.

"Wherever the chaise stops, miss, we must drive past it as if we were going somewhere else.
I shall notice the place while we go by; and you will please sit back in the corner of the
cab so that the gentleman can't see you."

"Well," I said, "and what next?"

"Next, miss, I shall pull up, wherever it may be, out of sight of the driver of the chaise.
He bears an excellent character, I don't deny it; but I've known him for years--and we had
better not trust him. I shall tell you where the gentleman stopped; and you will go back to
the place (on foot, of course), and see for yourself what's to be done, specially if there
happens to be a lady in the case. No offense, miss; it's in my experience that there's generally
a lady in the case. Anyhow, you can judge for yourself, and you'll know where to find me waiting
when you want me again."

"Suppose something happens," I suggested, "that we don't expect?"

"I shan't lose my head, miss, whatever happens."

"All very well, coachman; but I have only your word for it." In the irritable state of my mind,
the man's confident way of thinking annoyed me.

"Begging your pardon, my young lady, you've got (if I may say so) what they call a guarantee.
When I was a young man, I drove a cab in London for ten years. Will that do?"

"I suppose you mean," I answered, "that you have learned deceit in the wicked ways of the great
city."

He took this as a compliment. "Thank you, miss. That's it exactly."

After a long drive, or so it seemed to my impatience, we passed the chaise drawn up at a lonely
house, separated by a front garden from the road. In two or three minutes more, we stopped
where the road took a turn, and descended to lower ground. The farmhouse which we had left
behind us was known to the driver. He led the way to a gate at the side of the road, and opened
it for me.

"In your place, miss," he said slyly, "the private way back is the way I should wish to take.
Try it by the fields. Turn to the right when you have passed the barn, and you'll find yourself
at the back of the house." He stopped, and looked at his big silver watch. "Half-past twelve,"
he said, "the Chawbacons--I mean the farmhouse servants, miss--will be at their dinner. All
in your favor, so far. If the dog happens to be loose, don't forget that his name's Grinder;
call him by his name, and pat him before he has time enough to think, and he'll let you be.
When you want me, here you'll find me waiting for orders."

I looked back as I crossed the field. The driver was sitting on the gate, smoking his pipe,
and the horse was nibbling the grass at the roadside. Two happy animals, without a burden on
their minds!

After passing the barn, I saw nothing of the dog. Far or near, no living creature appeared;
the servants must have been at dinner, as the coachman had foreseen. Arriving at a wooden fence,
I opened a gate in it, and found myself on a bit of waste ground. On my left, there was a large
duck-pond. On my right, I saw the fowl-house and the pigstyes. Before me was a high impenetrable
hedge; and at some distance behind it--an orchard or a garden, as I supposed, filling the intermediate
space--rose the back of the house. I made for the shelter of the hedge, in the fear that some
one might approach a window and see me. Once sheltered from observation, I might consider what
I should do next. It was impossible to doubt that this was the house in which Eunice was living.
Neither could I fail to conclude that Philip had tried to persuade her to see him, on those
former occasions when he told me he had taken a long walk.

As I crouched behind the hedge, I heard voices approaching on the other side of it. At last
fortune had befriended me. The person speaking at the moment was Miss Jillgall; and the person
who answered her was Philip.

"I am afraid, dear Mr. Philip, you don't quite understand my sweet Euneece. Honorable, high
minded, delicate in her feelings, and, oh, so unselfish! I don't want to alarm you, but when
she hears you have been deceiving Helena--"

"Upon my word, Miss Jillgall, you are so provoking! I have not been deceiving Helena. Haven't
I told you what discouraging answers I got, when I went to see the Governor? Haven't I shown
you Eunice's reply to my letter? You can't have forgotten it already?"

"Oh, yes, I have. Why should I remember it? Don't I know poor Euneece was in your mind, all
the time?"

"You're wrong again! Eunice was not in my mind all the time. I was hurt--I was offended by
the cruel manner in which she had treated me. And what was the consequence? So far was I from
deceiving Helena--she rose in my estimation by comparison with her sister."

"Oh, come, come, Mr. Philip! that won't do. Helena rising in anybody's estimation? Ha! ha! ha!"

"Laugh as much as you like, Miss Jillgall, you won't laugh away the facts. Helena loved me;
Helena was true to me. Don't be hard on a poor fellow who is half distracted. What a man finds
he can do on one day, he finds he can't do on another. Try to understand that a change does
sometimes come over one's feelings."

"Bless my soul, Mr. Philip, that's just what I have been understanding all the time! I know
your mind as well as you know it yourself. You can't forget my sweet Euneece."

"I tell you I tried to forget her! On my word of honor as a gentleman, I tried to forget her,
in justice to Helena. Is it my fault that I failed? Eunice was in my mind, as you said just
now. Oh, my friend--for you are my friend, I am sure--persuade her to see me, if it's only
for a minute!"

(Was there ever a man's mind in such a state of confusion as this! First, I rise in his precious
estimation, and Eunice drops. Then Eunice rises, and I drop. Idiot! Mischievous idiot! Even
Selina seemed to be disgusted with him, when she spoke next.)

"Mr. Philip, you are hard and unreasonable. I have tried to persuade her, and I have made my
darling cry. Nothing you can say will induce me to distress her again. Go back, you very undetermined
man--go back to your Helena."

"Too late."

"Nonsense!"

"I say too late. If I could have married Helena when I first went to stay in the house, I might
have faced the sacrifice. As it is, I can't endure her; and (I tell you this in confidence)
she has herself to thank for what has happened."

"Is that really true?"

"Quite true."

"Tell me what she did.

"Oh, don't talk of her! Persuade Eunice to see me. I shall come back again, and again, and
again till you bring her to me."

"Please don't talk nonsense. If she changes her mind, I will bring her with pleasure. If she
still shrinks from it, I regard Euneece's feelings as sacred. Take my advice; don't press her.
Leave her time to think of you, and to pity you--and that true heart may be yours again, if
you are worthy of it."

"Worthy of it? What do you mean?"

"Are you quite sure, my young friend, that you won't go back to Helena?"

"Go back to her? I would cut my throat if I thought myself capable of doing it!"

"How did she set you against her? Did the wretch quarrel with you?"

"It might have been better for both of us if she had done that. Oh, her fulsome endearments!
What a contrast to the charming modesty of Eunice! If I was rich, I would make it worth the
while of the first poor fellow I could find to rid me of Helena by marrying her. I don't like
saying such a thing of a woman, but if you will have the truth--"

"Well, Mr. Philip--and what is the truth?"

"Helena disgusts me."

CHAPTER LVII. HELENA'S DIARY RESUMED.

So it was all settled between them. Philip is to throw me away, like one of his bad cigars,
for this unanswerable reason: "Helena disgusts me." And he is to persuade Eunice to take my
place, and be his wife. Yes! if I let him do it.

I heard no more of their talk. With that last, worst outrage burning in my memory, I left the
place.

On my way back to the carriage, the dog met me. Truly, a grand creature. I called him by his
name, and patted him. He licked my hand. Something made me speak to him. I said: "If I was
to tell you to tear Mr. Philip Dunboyne to pieces, would you do it?" The great good-natured
brute held out his paw to shake hands. Well! well! I was not an object of disgust to the dog.

But the coachman was startled, when he saw me again. He said something, I did not know what
it was; and he produced a pocket-flask, containing some spirits, I suppose. Perhaps he thought
I was going to faint. He little knew me. I told him to drive back to the place at which I had
hired the cab, and earn his money. He earned it.

On getting home, I found Mrs. Tenbruggen walking up and down the dining-room, deep in thought.
She was startled when we first confronted each other. "You look dreadfully ill," she said.

I answered that I had been out for a little exercise, and had over-fatigued myself; and then
changed the subject. "Does my father seem to improve under your treatment?" I asked.

"Very far from it, my dear. I promised that I would try what Massage would do for him, and
I find myself compelled to give it up."

"Why?"

"It excites him dreadfully."

"In what way?"

"He has been talking wildly of events in his past life. His brain is in some condition which
is beyond my powers of investigation. He pointed to a cabinet in his room, and said his past
life was locked up there. I asked if I should unlock it. He shook with fear; he said I should
let out the ghost of his dead brother-in-law. Have you any idea of what he meant?"

The cabinet was full of old letters. I could tell her that--and could tell her no more. I had
never heard of his brother-in-law. Another of his delusions, no doubt. "Did you ever hear him
speak," Mrs. Tenbruggen went on, "of a place called Low Lanes?"

She waited for my reply to this last inquiry with an appearance of anxiety that surprised me.
I had never heard him speak of Low Lanes.

"Have you any particular interest in the place?" I asked.

"None whatever."

She went away to attend on a patient. I retired to my bedroom, and opened my Diary. Again and
again, I read that remarkable story of the intended poisoning, and of the manner in which it
had ended. I sat thinking over this romance in real life till I was interrupted by the announcement
of dinner.

Mr. Philip Dunboyne had returned. In Miss Jillgall's absence we were alone at the table. My
appetite was gone. I made a pretense of eating, and another pretense of being glad to see my
devoted lover. I talked to him in the prettiest manner. As a hypocrite, he thoroughly matched
me; he was gallant, he was amusing. If baseness like ours had been punishable by the law, a
prison was the right place for both of us.

Mrs. Tenbruggen came in again after dinner, still not quite easy about my health. "How flushed
you are!" she said. "Let me feel your pulse." I laughed, and left her with Mr. Philip Dunboyne.

Passing my father's door, I looked in, anxious to see if he was in the excitable state which
Mrs. Tenbruggen had described. Yes; the effect which she had produced on him--how, she knows
best--had not passed away yet: he was still talking. The attendant told me it had gone on for
hours together. On my approaching his chair, he called out: "Which are you? Eunice or Helena?"
When I had answered him, he beckoned me to come nearer. "I am getting stronger every minute,"
he said. "We will go traveling to-morrow, and see the place where you were born."

Where had I been born? He had never told me where. Had he mentioned the place in Mrs. Tenbruggen's
hearing? I asked the attendant if he had been present while she was in the room. Yes; he had
remained at his post; he had also heard the allusion to the place with the odd name. Had Mr.
Gracedieu said anything more about that place? Nothing more; the poor Minister's mind had wandered
off to other things. He was wandering now. Sometimes, he was addressing his congregation; sometimes,
he wondered what they would give him for supper; sometimes, he talked of the flowers in the
garden. And then he looked at me, and frowned, and said I prevented him from thinking.

I went back to my bedroom, and opened my Diary, and read the story again.

Was the poison of which that resolute young wife proposed to make use something that acted
slowly, and told the doctors nothing if they looked for it after death?

Would it be running too great a risk to show the story to the doctor, and try to get a little
valuable information in that way? It would be useless. He would make some feeble joke; he would
say, girls and poisons are not fit company for each other.

But I might discover what I want to know in another way. I might call on the doctor, after
he has gone out on his afternoon round of visits, and might tell the servant I would wait for
his master's return. Nobody would be in my way; I might get at the medical literature in the
consulting-room, and find the information for myself.

A knock at my door interrupted me in the midst of my plans. Mrs. Tenbruggen again!--still in
a fidgety state of feeling on the subject of my health. "Which is it?" she said. "Pain of body,
my dear, or pain of mind? I am anxious about you."

"My dear Elizabeth, your sympathy is thrown away on me. As I have told you already, I am over-tired--nothing
more."

She was relieved to hear that I had no mental troubles to complain of. "Fatigue," she remarked,
"sets itself right with rest. Did you take a very long walk?" 

Prince was in vain that expose the state of Madame de Ponce, who had no complicity some in the
escape of Carolina, that the effect of this was excusable and natural, and could be sure to
be submitted to the spontaneous decision. Then mounting him blood the cheeks, and disdainful look,
but with singular coolness, said:

- Allow me two more words. I have a duty to inform you of a circumstance that surely justify me, as
executor of the deceased Galba to reject their claims. A few months later the death of Mr. Galba,
a Chinese that he had been in service and discovered she had made a will, which was later discovered
among its documentation. Negligible value legacy, mostly land, then a low value, prevented his executors
surrogates to carry out his will, and even open and will make public the formulas prescribed
by law, until about two or three years when the value of property had already increased considerably.
The provisions of that bequest are simple, but strict. Galba assets are divided between Carolina
and his stepmother, with explicit condition that the latter is his legal guardian, provide for
their education and replace and make a father in all that is the case.

- And what is the value of that legacy? - Asked Robinson.

- I can
not say exactly, but about half a million - said Prince.

- If so,
I declare that the conduct of Ms. Ponce is as honest as justified
- answered Mr. Robinson.

- Is not I who dare to doubt or oppose obstacles
to the fulfillment of the intentions My late husband - said of Galba.

And the interview is over.

By communicating the results of it to Madame de Ponce, it took John's
hand to lean lips.

- Nothing can add to my present happiness, Juan,
but tell me, why is it hidden Carolina?

John smiled quietly.

After a week completed the necessary legal formalities, and Carolina
was returned his stepmother.

A proposal for the sick, rented a house in the suburbs of the population, there to await the
spring came late this year, and the lady's convalescent Ponce did not come ever.

However, he was patient and happy.

He liked to observe sprouting beyond the window trees unknown to her in California, and ask their
names and Carolina fruit. Still planned for the summer long walks with Carolina through the
lush woods, where the gray and dry lines could be seen from the cottage. Wanted to write a
poem dedicated to them, one of the members of this makeshift family kept it a song joyful,
pure and simple, like an echo of pitirrojo who called from the window at birth dawn.

Then, abruptly, spread over the sky a clear day, mystically soft,
sleepy and beautiful, throbbing as if swooping life with invisible
wings, Nature woke up to an exuberant resurrection.

And the poor sick woman was seated outdoors, prostrate under that glorious sun gilded it all with
his rays. There he lay for a long time in sweet and peaceful bliss.

One day, tired of ensuring Carolina, had stayed by his side, and the thin lady fingers Ponce perched
upon his head as if in tender benediction.

A bit, called John.

- Who has been recently? - Said in a barely audible voice.

- Mademoiselle de Corlear - John said, answering the look in his sunken eyes.

- John - said after a pause, - beloved John, sit beside me for a moment, I have to tell you
something. If in recent days I have ever seemed hard or cold, or coquettish, was because I loved
you, John, I loved you too much to jeopardize your future, chaining with mine and obsolete.
Always loved you, dear John, even when you seem less deserving.

Everything happened already, but I recently had a dream, John, I dreamed of a woman, who would
find As for me I was missing - and looked lovingly at tender bud
slept beside him, - and would love as you loved.

Is not it true?

And he fixed his eyes, giving off a last flash of light. John shook his hand, but did not answer.
After a few moments of silence, said:

- Maybe hits in your choice.

It's a good girl, Juan ... though a little bold.

And he said no more. The last trace of life that head came off weak, crazy and passionate. A butterfly
had landed on his chest blew, and the hand away from head Carolina fell to his side, motionless.

DE-HINCHÚ,
The idolater

     
     The menu at Hop-Sing, fluttered to the ground a strip of yellow paper,
     which at first view candidly that I figured would be the label of
a package of Chinese surprises, so many figures and hieroglyphics
were contained.

There was also within a smaller strip rice paper with two exotic
characters, drawn with ink, in which recognized card immediately Hop-Sing.

The translation of all this was:
     

"The doors of my house are not closed to the outsider, the bowl of
     rice is on the left and sweets to the right of the input.

     
     "The teacher gave these two sentences:

"Hospitality is the virtue
of the child and the wisdom of parents.

"The sane is tender-hearted, after the harvest, a festival.

"If you see the stranger in your hedgerow, melons, did not observe very closely, while meeting
is often the highest form of wisdom.

     "Happiness, peace and prosperity .-- Hop-Sing."
     
     I am obliged to confess that, after a very free translation, I found
myself in serious trouble immediate implementation to carry the message
that I was going.

     By wise and judicious than were the above adages, I was, as they
say, fasting, on what Hop-Sing wanted to tell me, the darkest of all
the comedians, as a good Chinese philosopher.

Fortunately, I discovered a third paper, folded as a note, containing a few words English,
written in block letters running of Hop-Sing. Said:

"I hope you will honor their attendance numbers ... of Sacramento Street, on Friday next at eight
of the Hop-Sing .-- night. "

"A cup of tea at nine o'clock."

That gave me the key to everything. It was a visit to the warehouse of Hop-Sing, openness and
exhibition of some rare Chinese novelties and curios, a session in the back office house, a
cup of tea, for goodness unknown outside of these holy places, cigars and a visit to the theater
or Buddhist temple. Indeed, this was the favorite of Hop-Sing while in the exercise of their hospitality,
as the principal or superintendent Ning-Fu Company.

Specified day at eight o'clock and entered the warehouse of Hop-Sing. The house was stuffed of
that mysterious odor, pleasant and indefinable, of foreign goods, could be seen there the usual exhibition
of objects of unusual appearance, the endless procession of tile or china, whimsical brotherhood
of the grotesque and the mathematically precise finish and, endless manifestations of the fragile
frivolity, lack of chromatic harmony, everything with strange and peculiar coloring. Huge kites
dragons and gigantic butterflies; other so artfully arranged, which threw intervals, entering into
the wind, the cry of the hawk, some so large that it was impossible for any boy could dominate,
so large that they did understand why comets in China take a fun the elderly; mythology of china
and bronze so disastrously ugly, for the same failure so, no waking
nor human sympathy nor any feeling of piety candy jars completely
covered by moral thoughts of Buddha and Confucius, hats that looked
with baskets and baskets that looked like hats, silk so thin and delicate
that I dare not to tell the incredible number of square yards that
could pass both a child ring.

These and many other indescribable objects were known to me. I continued my way through warehouse
lighting sparingly until you reach the back office or living room, where I found Hop-Sing, who
received me with peculiar kindness.

Not go into the description without the enlightened reader dispose of your mind all sorts of
ideas about the Chinese may have acquired works and performances biased. Not wearing their pants
legs with scalloped full of bells, I never found a Chinese to take them, no progress steadily
extended her index finger at right angles with the body, even as I ever heard utter the mysterious
sentence Ching a ring a ring chaw, nor danced as those at the slightest indication. Rather it
was, overall, a gentleman serious, decorous and all respectability. His color, which stretched
across the head to her long braid, resembled that of a beautiful agarbanzado paper and glossy,
and her eyes were piercing black. He was straight and finely shaped nose, mouth small, teeth
giblets, clean, and eyebrows inclined at an angle of fifteen degrees. Her dress characteristic
was a dark blue silk blouse, and the street, on cold days, a short leather jacket Astrakhan.
In the legs was but leggings blue brocade closely tight around the calves and ankles would
have said that that morning he had forgotten wearing the pants, but they were so aristocratic
manners, which completely concealed alleged lack of those. Although Spartan severity was fine person
and spoke with ease in English and French. In sum, I doubt you would have to find another
Like this Pagan shopkeeper among Christians of its kind in San Francisco. Some people else
was there. A Federal Court judge, a senior government official, a wealthy merchant and a publisher.
After we had drunk our tea and tried some candy from a artistic vase rose Hop-Sing, and doing
badly sign to follow him, indíconos that low to the basement with him. Once there, we were surprised
to see brightly lit and some chairs arranged in a circle on the smooth
pavement.

After we had done lay, said ceremoniously:

- I invited you to witness a spectacle that ever I can assure foreign some have seen, outside
of you. The magician of the court, De-Hinchú, arrived yesterday morning. Function has never
been outside the palace, but I asked you to amuse my friends tonight and has agreed willingly.
For your gaming needs no theater, tables, accessories, or help some,
but only what you see here.

Acknowledge, gentlemen, and examine the ground for themselves.

Naturally, we were to consider that. It was the usual ground floor or the basement is the stores
in San Francisco, asphalt, to prevent moisture. We hit the pavement with our rods and both walls
to please our guest policy, no otherwise, they were fully compliant to be victims of any clever management.
Of me to say that I was willing to be deceived, and if I had offered
an explanation of what followed, probably would have excused.

I am convinced that together, the role of De-Hinchú was the first of its kind given on American
soil, however, as it surely will have become so familiar since some of my readers, I will not
be annoying to insist on it. He began by casting the flight, with the help of her fan, a large
swarm of butterflies, made to our view small bits of tissue paper and kept in the air for the
rest of the session. Certainly the judge tried to grab one, which had been standing on his
knee, and escapósele the way of a lepidopteran truth. At the same time De-Hinchú, still driving
your fan, pulled chicken hat, palm oranges, extracted yards of silk without end of his sleeves,
and filled the basement surface of genres that sprang up mysteriously soil, their own dress
from scratch. He swallowed knives to the detriment of their digestion for years to come, dislocated
all members of his body and leaned back in the air, as resting in the ether. But fortune that
crowned the function, and so far I have not seen repeatedly, was the most amazing, fantastic and
mysterious. It is my apology for this long preamble, my only excuse
for writing this story, the genesis of this true story.

At one point, cleared the ground of the objects that encumbered, and then invited us all to get
up and further consideration. Hicímoslo with gravity, nothing but asphalt notice pavement. Then
asked to lend him a handkerchief, as if by chance I found myself closer to him I offered him
mine. Took it in his hands and spread it open on the floor, unfolded upon him a large box of
silk, and this, again, a large shawl, which covered most free field. Situose after one of the vertices
of this rectangle, and began a monotonous chant, rocking back and forth to the beat of a mournful
melody. We hope still, and dominate the song, we heard the bells of the city clocks, and shake
a car that rolled down the street on our heads. The anxious anticipation, the opaque and mysterious
twilight of the cellar, hovering in a fantastic on deformed bulk a Chinese deity in the background,
the drowsy smell of opium mixed with the smell of spices and uncertainty of what we were really
expecting, we were overwhelmed with shivering of instinctive fear: we looked at each other
with a forced smile. The unrest reached its high when Hop-Sing, rising slowly, pointed at the
center of the shawl, saying the lower floor.

There was something beneath the shawl! And something that was not there before, at first an imperceptible
relief, the vague but growing more and more distinct and visible at every moment happened. The
chant still continued, the sweat began to run down the face of the singer, for the hidden object
was now taking shape and body, which raised the shawl in its center a few inches of soil.
It was undoubtedly because the outline of a small but perfect human body with arms and legs open.
Pale and felt restless, the Finally, the editor broke the silence with a joke, however poor
it was, received with spontaneous joy.

Suddenly ceased singing, and De-Hinchú, with a quick and clever movement, snatched and silk shawl,
and discovered sleeping peacefully upon my handkerchief, a tiny urchin.

The resounding applause that followed this discovery had to leave De-Hinchú satisfied, even
if his audience was small, at least, was quite loud to wake creature,
a beautiful boy about a year old, who looked like a statue of Cupid.

Was taken away almost as mysteriously as it had appeared. Hop-Sing When I returned, with a greeting,
my handkerchief, I asked if the juggler was the father of the young
boy '.

- Who knows? - Said the imperturbable Hop-Sing, using the
formula of ambiguity Spanish so common in California.

- But it is
a new creature for each function? - I said.

- Maybe!

Who knows?

- But what will become of it?

- Whatever you want, gentlemen - Hop-Sing
said, making a polite bow .-- Born here, you are his godparents.

 Let me see her once more, let me hear
her say that she forgives me, before I die."

I hesitated. It was too terrible to think of Euneece in the same house with her sister. Her
life might be in danger! Philip gave me a look, a dreadful ghastly look. "If you refuse," he
said wildly, "the grave won't hold me. I'll haunt you for the rest of your life."

"She shall hear that you are ill," I answered--and ran out of the room before he could speak again.

What I had promised to write, I did write. But, placed between Euneece's danger and Philip's
danger, my heart was all for Euneece. Would Helena spare her, if she came to Philip's bedside?
In such terror as I never felt before in my life, I added a word more, entreating her not to
leave the farm. I promised to keep her regularly informed on the subject of Philip's illness;
and I mentioned that I expected the Governor to return to us immediately. "Do nothing," I wrote,
"without his advice." My letter having been completed, I sent the cook away with it, in a chaise.
She belonged to the neighborhood, and she knew the farmhouse well. Nearly two hours afterward,
I heard the chaise stop at the door, and ran out, impatient to hear how my sweet girl had received
my letter. God help us all! When I opened the door, the first person whom I saw was Euneece
herself.

CHAPTER LIX. DEFENSE.

One surprise followed another, after I had encountered Euneece at the door.

When my fondness had excused her for setting the well-meant advice in my letter at defiance,
I was conscious of expecting to see her in tears; eager, distressingly eager, to hear what
hope there might be of Philip's recovery. I saw no tears, I heard no inquiries. She was pale,
and quiet, and silent. Not a word fell from her when we met, not a word when she kissed me,
not a word when she led the way into the nearest room--the dining-room. It was only when we
were shut in together that she spoke.

"Which is Philip's room?" she asked.

Instead of wanting to know how he was, she desired to know where he was! I pointed toward the
back dining-room, which had been made into a bedroom for Philip. He had chosen it himself,
when he first came to stay with us, because the window opened into the garden, and he could
slip out and smoke at any hour of the day or night, when he pleased.

"Who is with him now?" was the next strange thing this sadly-changed girl said to me.

"Maria is taking her turn," I answered; "she assists in nursing Philip."

"Where is--?" Euneece got no further than that. Her breath quickened, her color faded away.
I had seen people look as she was looking now, when they suffered under some sudden pain. Before
I could offer to help her, she rallied, and went on: "Where," she began again, "is the other
nurse?"

"You mean Helena?" I said.

"I mean the Poisoner."

When I remind you, dear Mr. Governor, that my letter had carefully concealed from her the horrible
discovery made by the doctor, your imagination will picture my state of mind. She saw that
I was overpowered. Her sweet nature, so strangely frozen up thus far, melted at last. "You
don't know what I have heard," she said, "you don't know what thoughts have been roused in
me." She left her chair, and sat on my knee with the familiarity of the dear old times, and
took the letter that I had written to her from her pocket.

"Look at it yourself," she said, "and tell me if anybody could read it, and not see that you
were concealing something. My dear, I have driven round by the doctor's house--I have seen
him--I have persuaded him, or perhaps I ought to say surprised him, into telling me the truth.
But the kind old man is obstinate. He wouldn't believe me when I told him I was on my way here
to save Philip's life. He said: 'My child, you will only put your own life in jeopardy. If
I had not seen that danger, I should never have told you of the dreadful state of things at
home. Go back to the good people at the farm, and leave the saving of Philip to me.'"

"He was right, Euneece, entirely right."

"No, dear, he was wrong. I begged him to come here, and judge for himself; and I ask you to
do the same."

I was obstinate. "Go back!" I persisted. "Go back to the farm!"

"Can I see Philip?" she asked.

I have heard some insolent men say that women are like cats. If they mean that we do, figuratively
speaking, scratch at times, I am afraid they are not altogether wrong. An irresistible impulse
made me say to poor Euneece: "This is a change indeed, since you refused to receive Philip."

"Is there no change in the circumstances?" she asked sadly. "Isn't he ill and in danger?"

I begged her to forgive me; I said I meant no harm.

"I gave him up to my sister," she continued, "when I believed that his happiness depended,
not on me, but on her. I take him back to myself, when he is at the mercy of a demon who threatens
his life. Come, Selina, let us go to Philip."

She put her arm round me, and made me get up from my chair. I was so easily persuaded by her,
that the fear of what Helena's jealousy and Helena's anger might do was scarcely present in
my thoughts. The door of communication was locked on the side of the bedchamber. I went into
the hall, to enter Philip's room by the other door. She followed, waiting behind me. I heard
what passed between them when Maria went out to her.

"Where is Miss Gracedieu?"

"Resting upstairs, miss, in her room."

"Look at the clock, and tell me when you expect her to come down here."

"I am to call her, miss, in ten minutes more."

"Wait in the dining-room, Maria, till I come back to you."

She joined me. I held the door open for her to go into Philip's room. It was not out of curiosity;
the feeling that urged me was sympathy, when I waited a moment to see their first meeting.
She bent over the poor, pallid, trembling, suffering man, and raised him in her arms, and laid
his head on her bosom. "My Philip!" She murmured those words in a kiss. I closed the door,
I had a good cry; and, oh, how it comforted me!

There was only a minute to spare when she came out of the room. Maria was waiting for her.
Euneece said, as quietly as ever: "Go and call Miss Gracedieu."

The girl looked at her, and saw--I don't know what. Maria became alarmed. But she went up the
stairs, and returned in haste to tell us that her young mistress was coming down.

The faint rustling of Helena's dress as she left her room reached us in the silence. I remained
at the open door of the dining-room, and Maria approached and stood near me. We were both frightened.
Euneece stepped forward, and stood on the mat at the foot of the stairs, waiting. Her back
was toward me; I could only see that she was as still as a statue. The rustling of the dress
came nearer. Oh, heavens! what was going to happen? My teeth chattered in my head; I held by
Maria's shoulder. Drops of perspiration showed themselves on the girl's forehead; she stared
in vacant terror at the slim little figure, posted firm and still on the mat.

Helena turned the corner of the stairs, and waited a moment on the last landing, and saw her
sister.

"You here?" she said. "What do you want?"

There was no reply. Helena descended, until she reached the last stair but one. There, she
stopped. Her staring eyes grew large and wild; her hand shook as she stretched it out, feeling
for the banister; she staggered as she caught at it, and held herself up. The silence was still
unbroken. Something in me, stronger than myself, drew my steps along the hall nearer and nearer
to the stair, till I could see the face which had struck that murderous wretch with terror.

I looked.

No! it was not my sweet girl; it was a horrid transformation of her. I saw a fearful creature,
with glittering eyes that threatened some unimaginable vengeance. Her lips were drawn back;
they showed her clinched teeth. A burning red flush dyed her face. The hair of her head rose,
little by little, slowly. And, most dreadful sight of all, she seemed, in the stillness of
the house, to be listening to something. If I could have moved, I should have fled to the first
place of refuge I could find. If I could have raised my voice, I should have cried for help.
I could do neither the one nor the other. I could only look, look, look; held by the horror
of it with a hand of iron.

Helena must have roused her courage, and resisted her terror. I heard her speak:

"Let me by!"

"No."

Slowly, steadily, in a whisper, Euneece made that reply.

Helena tried once more--still fighting against her own terror: I knew it by the trembling of
her voice.

"Let me by," she repeated; "I am on my way to Philip's room."

"You will never enter Philip's room again."

"Who will stop me?"

"I will."

She had spoken in the same steady whisper throughout--but now she moved. I saw her set her
foot on the first stair. I saw the horrid glitter in her eyes flash close into Helena's face.
I heard her say:

"Poisoner, go back to your room."

Silent and shuddering, Helena shrank away from her--daunted by her glittering eyes; mastered
by her lifted hand pointing up the stairs.

Helena slowly ascended till she reached the landing. She turned and looked down; she tried
to speak. The pointing hand struck her dumb, and drove her up the next flight of stairs. She
was lost to view. Only the small rustling sound of the dress was to be heard, growing fainter
and fainter; then an interval of stillness; then the noise of a door opened and closed again;
then no sound more--but a change to be seen: the transformed creature was crouching on her
knees, still and silent, her face covered by her hands. I was afraid to approach her; I was
afraid to speak to her. After a time, she rose. Suddenly, swiftly, with her head turned away
from me, she opened the door of Philip's room--and was gone.

I looked round. There was only Maria in the lonely hall. Shall I try to tell you what my sensations
were? It may sound strangely, but it is true--I felt like a sleeper, who has half-awakened
from a dream.

CHAPTER LX. DISCOVERY.

A little later, on that eventful day, when I was most in need of all that your wisdom and kindness
could do to guide me, came the telegram which announced that you were helpless under an attack
of gout. As soon as I had in some degree got over my disappointment, I remembered having told
Euneece in my letter that I expected her kind old friend to come to us. With the telegram in
my hand I knocked softly at Philip's door.

The voice that bade me come in was the gentle voice that I knew so well. Philip was sleeping.
There, by his bedside, with his hand resting in her hand, was Euneece, so completely restored
to her own sweet self that I could hardly believe what I had seen, not an hour since. She talked
of you, when I showed her your message, with affectionate interest and regret. Look back, my
admirable friend, at what I have written on the two or three pages which precede this, and
explain the astounding contrast if you can.

I was left alone to watch by Philip, while Euneece went away to see her father. Soon afterward,
Maria took my place; I had been sent for to the next room to receive the doctor.

He looked care-worn and grieved. I said I was afraid he had brought bad news with him.

"The worst possible news," he answered. "A terrible exposure threatens this family, and I am
powerless to prevent it."

He then asked me to remember the day when I had been surprised by the singular questions which
he had put to me, and when he had engaged to explain himself after he had made some inquiries.
Why, and how, he had set those inquiries on foot was what he had now to tell. I will repeat
what he said, in his own words, as nearly as I can remember them. While he was in attendance
on Philip, he had observed symptoms which made him suspect that Digitalis had been given to
the young man, in doses often repeated. Cases of attempted poisoning by this medicine were
so rare, that he felt bound to put his suspicions to the test by going round among the chemists's
shops--excepting of course the shop at which his own prescriptions were made up--and asking
if they had lately dispensed any preparation of Digitalis, ordered perhaps in a larger quantity
than usual. At the second shop he visited, the chemist laughed. "Why, doctor," he said, "have
you forgotten your own prescription?" After this, the prescription was asked for, and produced.
It was on the paper used by the doctor--paper which had his address printed at the top, and
a notice added, telling patients who came to consult him for the second time to bring their
prescriptions with them. Then, there followed in writing: "Tincture of Digitalis, one ounce"--with
his signature at the end, not badly imitated, but a forgery nevertheless. The chemist noticed
the effect which this discovery had produced on the doctor, and asked if that was his signature.
He could hardly, as an honest man, have asserted that a forgery was a signature of his own
writing. So he made the true reply, and asked who had presented the prescription. The chemist
called to his assistant to come forward. "Did you tell me that you knew, by sight, the young
lady who brought this prescription?" The assistant admitted it. "Did you tell me she was Miss
Helena Gracedieu?" "I did." "Are you sure of not having made any mistake?" "Quite sure." The
chemist then said: "I myself supplied the Tincture of Digitalis, and the young lady paid for
it, and took it away with her. You have had all the information that I can give you, sir; and
I may now ask, if you can throw any light on the matter." Our good friend thought of the poor
Minister, so sorely afflicted, and of the famous name so sincerely respected in the town and
in the country round, and said he could not undertake to give an immediate answer. The chemist
was excessively angry. "You know as well as I do," he said, "that Digitalis, given in certain
doses, is a poison, and you cannot deny that I honestly believed myself to be dispensing your
prescription. While you are hesitating to give me an answer, my character may suffer; I may
be suspected myself." He ended in declaring he should consult his lawyer. The doctor went home,
and questioned his servant. The man remembered the day of Miss Helena's visit in the afternoon,
and the intention that she expressed of waiting for his master's return. He had shown her into
the parlor which opened into the consulting-room. No other visitor was in the house at that
time, or had arrived during the rest of the day. The doctor's own experience, when he got home,
led him to conclude that Helena had gone into the consulting-room. He had entered that room,
for the purpose of writing some prescriptions, and had found the leaves of paper that he used
diminished in number. After what he had heard, and what he had discovered (to say nothing of
what he suspected), it occurred to him to look along the shelves of his medical library. He
found a volume (treating of Poisons) with a slip of paper left between the leaves; the poison
described at the place so marked being Digitalis, and the paper used being one of his own prescription-papers.
"If, as I fear, a legal investigation into Helena's conduct is a possible event," the doctor
concluded, "there is the evidence that I shall be obliged to give, when I am called as a witness."

It is my belief that I could have felt no greater dismay, if the long arm of the Law had laid
its hold on me while he was speaking. I asked what was to be done.

"If she leaves the house at once," the doctor replied, "she may escape the infamy of being
charged with an attempt at murder by poison; and, in her absence, I can answer for Philip's
life. I don't urge you to warn her, because that might be a dangerous thing to do. It is for
you to decide, as a member of the family, whether you will run the risk."

I tried to speak to him of Euneece, and to tell him what I had already related to yourself.
He was in no humor to listen to me. "Keep it for a fitter time," he answered; "and think of
what I have just said to you." With that, he left me, on his way to Philip's room.

Mental exertion was completely beyond me. Can you understand a poor middle-aged spinster being
frightened into doing a dangerous thing? That may seem to be nonsense. But if you ask why I
took a morsel of paper, and wrote the warning which I was afraid to communicate by word of
mouth--why I went upstairs with my knees knocking together, and opened the door of Helena's
room just wide enough to let my hand pass through--why I threw the paper in, and banged the
door to again, and ran downstairs as I have never run since I was a little girl--I can only
say, in the way of explanation, what I have said already: I was frightened into doing it.

What I have written, thus far, I shall send to you by to-night's post.

The doctor came back to me, after he had seen Philip, and spoken with Euneece. He was very
angry; and, I must own, not without reason. Philip had flatly refused to let himself be removed
to the hospital; and Euneece--"a mere girl"--had declared that she would be answerable for
consequences! The doctor warned me that he meant to withdraw from the case, and to make his
declaration before the magistrates. At my entreaties he consented to return in the evening,
and to judge by results before taking the terrible step that he had threatened.

While I remained at home on the watch, keeping the doors of both rooms locked, Eunice went
out to get Philip's medicine. She came back, followed by a boy carrying a portable apparatus
for cooking. "All that Philip wants, and all that we want," she explained, "we can provide
for ourselves. Give me a morsel of paper to write on."

Unhooking the little pencil attached to her watch-chain, she paused and looked toward the door.
"Somebody listening," she whispered. "Let them listen." She wrote a list of necessaries, in
the way of things to eat and things to drink, and asked me to go out and get them myself. "I
don't doubt the servants," she said, speaking distinctly enough to be heard outside; "but I
am afraid of what a Poisoner's cunning and a Poisoner's desperation may do, in a kitchen which
is open to her." I went away on my errand--discovering no listener outside, I need hardly say.
On my return, I found the door of communication with Philip's room closed, but no longer locked.
"We can now attend on him in turn," she said, "without opening either of the doors which lead
into the hall. At night we can relieve each other, and each of us can get sleep as we want
it in the large armchair in the dining-room. Philip must be safe under our charge, or the doctor
will insist on taking him to the hospital. When we want Maria's help, from time to time, we
can employ her under our own superintendence. Have you anything else, Selina, to suggest?"

There was nothing left to suggest. Young and inexperienced as she was, how (I asked) had she
contrived to think of all this? She answered, simply "I'm sure I don't know; my thoughts came
to me while I was looking at Philip."

Soon afterward I found an opportunity of inquiring if Helena had left the house. She had just
rung her bell; and Maria had found her, quietly reading, in her room. Hours afterward, when
I was on the watch at night, I heard Philip's door softly tried from the outside. Her dreadful
purpose had not been given up, even yet.

The doctor came in the evening, as he had promised, and found an improvement in Philip's health.
I mentioned what precautions we had taken, and that they had been devised by Euneece. "Are
you going to withdraw from the case?" I asked. "I am coming back to the case," he answered,
"to-morrow morning."

It had been a disappointment to me to receive no answer to the telegram which I had sent to
Mr. Dunboyne the elder. The next day's post brought the explanation in a letter to Philip from
his father, directed to him at the hotel here. This showed that my telegram, giving my address
at this house, had not been received. Mr. Dunboyne announced that he had returned to Ireland,
finding the air of London unendurable, after the sea-breezes at home. If Philip had already
married, his father would leave him to a life of genteel poverty with Helena Gracedieu. If
he had thought better of it, his welcome was waiting for him.

Little did Mr. Dunboyne know what changes had taken place since he and his son had last met,
and what hope might yet present itself of brighter days for poor Euneece! I thought of writing
to him. But how would that crabbed old man receive a confidential letter from a lady who was
a stranger?

My doubts were set at rest by Philip himself. He asked me to write a few lines of reply to
his father; declaring that his marriage with Helena was broken off--that he had not given up
all hope of being permitted to offer the sincere expression of his penitence to Euneece--and
that he would gladly claim his welcome, as soon as he was well enough to undertake the journey
to Ireland. When he had signed the letter, I was so pleased that I made a smart remark. I said:
"This is a treaty of peace between father and son."

When the doctor arrived in the morning, and found the change for the better in his patient
confirmed, he did justice to us at last. He spoke kindly, and even gratefully, to Euneece.
No more allusions to the hospital as a place of safety escaped him. He asked me cautiously
for news of Helena. I could only tell him that she had gone out at her customary time, and
had returned at her customary time. He did not attempt to conceal that my reply had made him
uneasy.

"Are you still afraid that she may succeed in poisoning Philip?" I asked.

"I am afraid of her cunning," he said. "If she is charged with attempting to poison young Dunboyne,
she has some system of defense, you may rely on it, for which we are not prepared. There, in
my opinion, is the true reason for her extraordinary insensibility to her own danger."

Two more days passed, and we were still safe under the protection of lock and key.

On the evening of the second day (which was a Monday) Maria came to me in great tribulation.
On inquiring what was the matter, I received a disquieting reply: "Miss Helena is tempting
me. She is so miserable at being prevented from seeing Mr. Philip, and helping to nurse him,
that it is quite distressing to see her. At the same time, miss, it's hard on a poor servant.
She asks me to take the key secretly out of the door, and lend it to her at night for a few
minutes only. I'm really afraid I shall be led into doing it, if she goes on persuading me
much longer."

I commended Maria for feeling scruples which proved her to be the best of good girls, and promised
to relieve her from all fear of future temptation. This was easily done. Euneece kept the key
of Philip's door in her pocket; and I kept the key of the dining-room door in mine.

CHAPTER LXI. ATROCITY.

On the next day, a Tuesday in the week, an event took place which Euneece and I viewed with
distrust. Early in the afternoon, a young man called with a note for Helena. It was to be given
to her immediately, and no answer was required.

Maria had just closed the house door, and was on her way upstairs with the letter, when she
was called back by another ring at the bell. Our visitor was the doctor. He spoke to Maria
in the hall:

"I think I see a note in your hand. Was it given to you by the young man who has just left
the house?"

"Yes, sir.

"If he's your sweetheart, my dear, I have nothing more to say."

"Good gracious, doctor, how you do talk! I never saw the young man before in my life."

"In that case, Maria, I will ask you to let me look at the address. Aha! Mischief!"

The moment I heard that I threw open the dining-room door. Curiosity is not easily satisfied.
When it hears, it wants to see; when it sees, it wants to know. Every lady will agree with
me in this observation.

"Pray come in," I said.

"One minute, Miss Jillgall. My girl, when you give Miss Helena that note, try to get a sly
look at her when she opens it, and come and tell me what you have seen." He joined me in the
dining-room, and closed the door. "The other day," he went on, "when I told you what I had
discovered in the chemist's shop, I think I mentioned a young man who was called to speak to
a question of identity--an assistant who knew Miss Helena Gracedieu by sight."

"Yes, yes!"

"That young man left the note which Maria has just taken upstairs."

"Who wrote it, doctor, and what does it say?"

"Questions naturally asked, Miss Jillgall--and not easily answered. Where is Eunice? Her quick
wit might help us."

She had gone out to buy some fruit and flowers for Philip.

The doctor accepted his disappointment resignedly. "Let us try what we can do without her,"
he said. "That young man's master has been in consultation (you may remember why) with his
lawyer, and Helena may be threatened by an investigation before the magistrates. If this wild
guess of mine turns out to have hit the mark, the poisoner upstairs has got a warning."

I asked if the chemist had written the note. Foolish enough of me when I came to think of it.
The chemist would scarcely act a friendly part toward Helena, when she was answerable for the
awkward position in which he had placed himself. Perhaps the young man who had left the warning
was also the writer of the warning. The doctor reminded me that he was all but a stranger to
Helena. "We are not usually interested," he remarked, "in a person whom we only know by sight."

"Remember that he is a young man," I ventured to say. This was a strong hint, but the doctor
failed to see it. He had evidently forgotten his own youth. I made another attempt.

"And vile as Helena is," I continued, "we cannot deny that this disgrace to her sex is a handsome
young lady."

He saw it at last. "Woman's wit!" he cried. "You have hit it, Miss Jillgall. The young fool
is smitten with her, and has given her a chance of making her escape."

"Do you think she will take the chance?"

"For all our sakes, I pray God she may! But I don't feel sure about it."

"Why?"

"Recollect what you and Eunice have done. You have shown your suspicion of her without an attempt
to conceal it. If you had put her in prison you could not have more completely defeated her
infernal design. Do you think she is a likely person to submit to that, without an effort to
be even with you?"

Just as he said those terrifying words, Maria came back to us. He asked at once what had kept
her so long upstairs.

The girl had evidently something to say, which had inflated her (if I may use such an expression)
with a sense of her own importance.

"Please to let me tell it, sir," she answered, "in my own way. Miss Helena turned as pale as
ashes when she opened the letter, and then she took a turn in the room, and then she looked
at me with a smile--well, miss, I can only say that I felt that smile in the small of my back.
I tried to get to the door. She stopped me. She says: 'Where's Miss Eunice?' I says: 'Gone
out.' She says: 'Is there anybody in the drawing-room?' I says: 'No, miss.' She says: 'Tell
Miss Jillgall I want to speak to her, and say I am waiting in the drawing-room.' It's every
word of it true! And, if a poor servant may give an opinion, I don't like the look of it."

The doctor dismissed Maria. "Whatever it is," he said to me, "you must go and hear it."

I am not a courageous woman; I expressed myself as being willing to go to her, if the doctor
went with me. He said that was impossible; she would probably refuse to speak before any witness;
and certainly before him. But he promised to look after Philip in my absence, and to wait below
if it really so happened that I wanted him. I need only ring the bell, and he would come to
me the moment he heard it. Such kindness as this roused my courage, I suppose. At any rate,
I went upstairs.

She was standing by the fire-place, with her elbow on the chimney-piece, and her head, resting
on her hand. I stopped just inside the door, waiting to hear what she had to say. In this position
her side-face only was presented to me. It was a ghastly face. The eye that I could see turned
wickedly on me when I came in--then turned away again. Otherwise, she never moved. I confess
I trembled, but I did my best to disguise it.

She broke out suddenly with what she had to say: "I won't allow this state of things to go
on any longer. My horror of an exposure which will disgrace the family has kept me silent,
wrongly silent, so far. Philip's life is in danger. I am forgetting my duty to my affianced
husband, if I allow myself to be kept away from him any longer. Open those locked doors, and
relieve me from the sight of you. Open the doors, I say, or you will both of you--you the accomplice,
she the wretch who directs you--repent it to the end of your lives."

In my own mind, I asked myself if she had gone mad. But I only answered: "I don't understand you."

She said again: "You are Eunice's accomplice."

"Accomplice in what?" I asked.

She turned her head slowly and faced me. I shrank from looking at her.

"All the circumstances prove it," she went on. "I have supplanted Eunice in Philip's affection.
She was once engaged to marry him; I am engaged to marry him now. She is resolved that he shall
never make me his wife. He will die if I delay any longer. He will die if I don't crush her,
like the reptile she is. She comes here--and what does she do? Keeps him prisoner under her
own superintendence. Who gets his medicine? She gets it. Who cooks his food? She cooks it.
The doors are locked. I might be a witness of what goes on; and I am kept out. The servants
who ought to wait on him are kept out. She can do what she likes with his medicine; she can
do what she likes with his food: she is infuriated with him for deserting her, and promising
to marry me. Give him back to my care; or, dreadful as it is to denounce my own sister, I shall
claim protection from the magistrates."

I lost all fear of her: I stepped close up to the place at which she was standing; I cried
out: "Of what, in God's name, do you accuse your sister?"

She answered: "I accuse her of poisoning Philip Dunboyne."

I ran out of the room; I rushed headlong down the stairs. The doctor heard me, and came running
into the hall. I caught hold of him like a madwoman. "Euneece!" My breath was gone; I could
only say: "Euneece!"

He dragged me into the dining-room. There was wine on the side-board, which he had ordered
medically for Philip. He forced me to drink some of it. It ran through me like fire; it helped
me to speak. "Now tell me," he said, "what has she done to Eunice?"

"She brings a horrible accusation against her," I answered.

"What is the accusation?" I told him.

He looked me through and through. "Take care!" he said. "No hysterics, no exaggeration. You
may lead to dreadful consequences if you are not sure of yourself. If it's really true, say
it again." I said it again--quietly this time.

His face startled me; it was white with rage. He snatched his hat off the hall table.

"What are you going to do?" I asked.

"My duty." He was out of the house before I could speak to him again.

Third Period (concluded).

TROUBLES AND TRIUMPHS OF THE FAMILY, RELATED BY THE GOVERNOR.

CHAPTER LXII. THE SENTENCE PRONOUNCED.

MARTYRS to gout know, by sad experience, that they suffer under one of the most capricious
of maladies. An attack of this disease will shift, in the most unaccountable manner, from one
part of the body to another; or, it will release the victim when there is every reason to fear
that it is about to strengthen its hold on him; or, having shown the fairest promise of submitting
to medical treatment, it will cruelly lay the patient prostrate again in a state of relapse.
Adverse fortune, in my case, subjected me to this last and worst trial of endurance. Two months
passed--months of pain aggravated by anxiety--before I was able to help Eunice and Miss Jillgall
personally with my sympathy and advice.

During this interval, I heard regularly from the friendly and faithful Selina.

Terror and suspense, courageously endured day after day, seem to have broken down her resistance,
poor soul, when Eunice's good name and Eunice's tranquillity were threatened by the most infamous
of false accusations. From that time, Miss Jillgall's method of expressing herself betrayed
a gradual deterioration. I shall avoid presenting at a disadvantage a correspondent who has
claims on my gratitude, if I give the substance only of what she wrote--assisted by the newspaper
which she sent to me, while the legal proceedings were in progress.

Honest indignation does sometimes counsel us wisely. When the doctor left Miss Jillgall, in
anger and in haste, he had determined on taking the course from which, as a humane man and
a faithful friend, he had hitherto recoiled. It was no time, now, to shrink from the prospect
of an exposure. The one hope of successfully encountering the vindictive wickedness of Helena
lay in the resolution to be beforehand with her, in the appeal to the magistrates with which
she had threatened Eunice and Miss Jillgall. The doctor's sworn information stated the whole
terrible case of the poisoning, ranging from his first suspicions and their confirmation, to
Helena's atrocious attempt to accuse her innocent sister of her own guilt. So firmly were the
magistrates convinced of the serious nature of the case thus stated, that they did not hesitate
to issue their warrant. Among the witnesses whose attendance was immediately secured, by the
legal adviser to whom the doctor applied, were the farmer and his wife.

Helena was arrested while she was dressing to go out. Her composure was not for a moment disturbed.
"I was on my way," she said coolly, "to make a statement before the justices. The sooner they
hear what I have to say the better."

The attempt of this shameless wretch to "turn the tables" on poor Eunice--suggested, as I afterward
discovered, by the record of family history which she had quoted in her journal--was defeated
with ease. The farmer and his wife proved the date at which Eunice had left her place of residence
under their roof. The doctor's evidence followed. He proved, by the production of his professional
diary, that the discovery of the attempt to poison his patient had taken place before the day
of Eunice's departure from the farm, and that the first improvement in Mr. Philip Dunboyne's
state of health had shown itself after that young lady's arrival to perform the duties of a
nurse. To the wise precautions which she had taken--perverted by Helena to the purpose of a
false accusation--the doctor attributed the preservation of the young man's life.

Having produced the worst possible impression on the minds of the magistrates, Helena was remanded.
Her legal adviser had predicted this result; but the vindictive obstinacy of his client had
set both experience and remonstrance at defiance.

At the renewed examination, the line of defense adopted by the prisoner's lawyer proved to
be--mistaken identity.

It was asserted that she had never entered the chemist's shop; also, that the assistant had
wrongly identified some other lady as Miss Helena Gracedieu; also, that there was not an atom
of evidence to connect her with the stealing of the doctor's prescription-paper and the forgery
of his writing. Other assertions to the same purpose followed, on which it is needless to dwell.
The case for the prosecution was, happily, in competent hands. With the exception of one witness,
cross-examination afforded no material help to the evidence for the defense.

The chemist swore positively to the personal appearance of Helena, as being the personal appearance
of the lady who had presented the prescription. His assistant, pressed on the question of identity,
broke down under cross-examination--purposely, as it was whispered, serving the interests of
the prisoner. But the victory, so far gained by the defense, was successfully contested by
the statement of the next witness, a respectable tradesman in the town. He had seen the newspaper
report of the first examination, and had volunteered to present himself as a witness. A member
of Mr. Gracedieu's congregation, his pew in the chapel was so situated as to give him a view
of the minister's daughters occupying their pew. He had seen the prisoner on every Sunday,
for years past; and he swore that he was passing the door of the chemist's shop, at the moment
when she stepped out into the street, having a bottle covered with the customary white paper
in her hand. The doctor and his servant were the next witnesses called. They were severely
cross-examined. Some of their statements--questioned technically with success--received unexpected
and powerful support, due to the discovery and production of the prisoner's diary. The entries,
guardedly as some of them were written, revealed her motive for attempting to poison Philip
Dunboyne; proved that she had purposely called on the doctor when she knew that he would be
out, that she had entered the consulting-room, and examined the medical books, had found (to
use her own written words) "a volume that interested her," and had used the prescription-papers
for the purpose of making notes. The notes themselves were not to be found; they had doubtless
been destroyed. Enough, and more than enough, remained to make the case for the prosecution
complete. The magistrates committed Helena Gracedieu for trial at the next assizes.

I arrived in the town, as well as I can remember, about a week after the trial had taken place.

Found guilty, the prisoner had been recommended to mercy by the jury--partly in consideration
of her youth; partly as an expression of sympathy and respect for her unhappy father. The judge
(a father himself) passed a lenient sentence. She was condemned to imprisonment for two years.
The careful matron of the jail had provided herself with a bottle of smelling-salts, in the
fear that there might be need for it when Helena heard her sentence pronounced. Do you understand? Freed the girl. At the time of
Galba died, the relationship that he joined you disappeared too. The thing is as clear as the
light. Who is the girl? What Galba? This girl is dead and can not belong to the dead. It is a solemn
nonsense to claim that belongs to the dead. Is it his daughter? No? Who, then? The girl belongs
to her mother. Is not it?

- Where is it? - Said Mrs. Ponce concentrated voice, pale face.

- All I'll explain. The girl belongs to her mother. That no doubt.

I am a lawyer, legislator and citizen of the Union. My duty as a lawyer, legislator and a citizen
of the Union is to restore the girl to her grieving mother ... cost
what it may.

- But where is he? - Repeated Madame de Ponce, yet still
view the face of colonel.

- Well on his way to join his mother, left
yesterday on the steamer, bound for the East and carried by winds
favorable to those who, no doubt waiting with open arms.

Mrs. Ponce remained motionless. The colonel felt his chest slowly shrank, but apoyose against
a chair, and tried to hold a chivalric gallantry coupled the severity of the judicial robes.

-
Madam, on way to honor their sex, but we must also consider the feelings,
the situation of a mother, and at the same time, my situation.

The colonel made a pause here and taking out a white handkerchief carelessly passed it on his
chest and then smiled cynically through their embroidered folds.

Then he added:

- Why has a slight shadow to cloud the harmony of two souls that moves a single thought? Certainly,
she is beautiful is good, but, after all, is the daughter of another!

Was the girl, Clara, but not everything went with it.

Clara, consider, my dear, I always have to me by your side!

Clara rose to power.

- You! - Shouted chest with a note that vibrated the windows .-- You, whom I married to my darling girl
will not starve! You, I called the dog to my side away from me men! You! ...

Could not continue. Rushed into the next room, who was Carolina, then moved quickly your own bedroom,
and suddenly appeared before him, erect, menacing, with a burning fire in the cheekbones, furrowed
brows and contracted his throat.

It seemed that his head Colonel flatten and depressed her mouth like a snake.

- Roberto! - Said in a hoarse voice and energetic .-- Hey, Colonel!

If you ever want to set your view in me, bring me before the girl. If you ever want to talk or approach,
you must give it back. Where she is, will I be, do you hear? Wherever she has gone, I find
myself!

And again he walked past angry, throwing out his arms from the elbows
down as well to rid themselves of imaginary bonds, and, entering her
room, shut the door and the key turned to violence.

Colonel Roberto, but not a coward, I felt angry for a woman a superstitious fear; back to leave
a clear path and was rolling helplessly on the couch. There, after one or two unsuccessful attempts
to stand up, he remained motionless, uttering of occasionally incoherent profanities mixed with
protests, until finally succumbed the weariness of emotion and the ingested alcohol narcosis.

Meanwhile,
Mrs. Ponce excited collecting jewelry and made his case, as other
Once he had made in the course of his eventful life.

Perhaps a memory of that scene in his mind wandered, then repeatedly stopped to support the
burning cheeks in his hand, as if again You should see the figure of the girl, standing in the doorway
and repeating angelic voice, the familiar question: - Is it Mom? - But this name is now tormented
cruelly. He drew from his imagination with a quick, passionate gesture, and wiped a tear that
rolled down her cheeks.

Then wanted the chance that removing her clothes, give to a girl's shoe, with a broken tape.
A piercing scream came out of his chest, the first he had uttered that day, and hugged each other,
kissing passionately again and again; meciola with that own maternal movement of women, then
took her to the window to see better through the tears that clouded his eyes. Suddenly suffered
a severe attack of coughing who tried to drown her handkerchief to
her lips red as scarlet.

And then felt fainted, it seemed that fled before her window, the floor was sinking under its
feet, and was staggered to bed, fell face down on her, shaking convulsively handkerchief to her
chest and shoe.

His face was horribly pale, orbits his eyes darkened, and his lips
first, then in his handkerchief, and finally on white bedspread few
drops of blood appeared.

Strong wind arose, shook the blinds and white curtains waved in a
way great, then a gray mist slid smoothly over the rooftops, stroking
the windswept walls and wrapping it all in dim light and quiet impressive
...

* * * * * * *

Clara lay motionless, despite all its troubles,
was a beautiful bride, but on the other the door closed and locked,
the colonel was snoring in his bed improvised violence.

IV

The small town of Genoa, in the State of New York, revealed last week to Christmas 1870, even
more than usual, the bitter irony of the name given its founders. A heavy snowfall blanketed
shrubs, plants, walls and telegraph poles; close siege to put sweet Italian capital arremolinábase
around the massive columns Doric wooden post house and hotel, green shutters suspended of
the best houses and powdered the angular shapes, rigid and dark of their routes. The ships of the
four main churches in the city, stood sharp line breaking of the houses and hiding in the low
swirl their misshapen towers. Close to the station, the new Methodist chapel, like a huge locomotive,
preceded, as a lifeguard, of the pyramid steps, seemed to expect that some houses were added
to go to a more pleasant place. And the pride of Genoa, the great Crammer Institute, for girls,
dominated the main avenue with its strange facade of brick and its tall, stately dome. From anywhere
in the city, could be seen easily the Crammer Institute, so that
under this view, did not belie his character as a public in which
no missing never a visitor in their step and a pretty face leaning
out their windows.

The whistle of the locomotive of the express northernmost of the four, brought to the station
very little of his usual empty crowd. Only one passenger got out and walked in solo sled to
the hotel in Genoa.

Then the train ran indifferent as all express trains, human curiosity, which returned the empty
baggage car to your garage and the station chief closed the door and went into retirement.

The shriek of the locomotive guilty conscience awakened three ladies of the Institute Crammer
at that time were given away in a neighboring street, the candy store of Mrs. Bridget eating
cakes. The rules of the Institute left extensive development of the physical nature and morals
of her students, in groups were satisfied with the excellent rules of diet, but extrarreglamentarios
feasts were permitted privately with goodies from your provider particular of the people attended
church with exemplary formality, but flirted during the divine office with the gilded youth of
the people in classes and received severe moral instruction and during the holiday devoured
most uplifting novels. The result of this dual education was a strong group of young, bright and
lovely overlooking the infinite Institute credit. Mrs. Bridget although he was owed large
sums, he praised the good humor and youthful beauty of his parishioners
and declared that the sight of these young ladies the rejuvenated,
but it is suspected that favors the unscrupulous covert raids those
were.

- Amigas! four, if we do not turn to prayer, give to speak
- said rising the highest of these foolish virgins, girl aquiline
nose and settled ways revealing a clever director roost.

- Do you
have books, Adelaide?

Adelaide taught under his raincoat three most holy books do not look.

-
What provisions, Carolina?

Carolina showed a bag of suspicious-looking package.

- Everything
is current.

Girls up.

Put it in the bill - said nodding the hostess, while advancing towards the door .-- I'll pay when
the quarter my power.

- No, Catalina - Carolina said, pulling out his purse, - let me pay my turn.

- Under no circumstances - Catalina said, arching his black eyebrows sovereign, - and I know
you rich relatives in California promptly send you funds, but I will
not allow it.

Come on, girls, go!

When you open the door, a strong gust of wind violently entered the store, which frightened
the gracious Dona Brigida.

- For God's sake, ladies, you should not leave this time! I'd better stop send a message to
the Institute and fix them a nice bed here.

But the last sentence was lost in the chorus of half-drowned screaming girls throwing, holding
hands, jumping in the middle of the storm, and soon were involved in the whirlwind hurricane.

Dusk, and the few hours of that December day, not illuminated the
vivid colors of the setting sun, ended quickly.

The temperature was cold for others and in the air dense whirling
snowflakes.

Inexperience, and especially the vigor of youth, gave resolution
girls, but dared to cross the field for a shortcut to avoid the bends
Mayor Street, and laughter expired on his lips and tears began to
point in Carolina's eyes.

Backward, and to reach the road, were overwhelmed by fatigue.

-
Let us go back - said Carolina.

- It would be possible as we go through
the field again - said Adelaide.

- Let's stop, then, in the first
house - said that.

- The first house - Adelaide said, peering through
the darkness rising, - is the squire Robinson - Carolina said and
started to look picaresque that even in their concern and fear did
that her cheeks were dyed with carmine.

- That's right!

Yes - Catalina said ironically - of course, let's stop at the home of Squire, and invited us
to dinner, and then we will drive home your dear friend Henry, formal apology from Mr. Robinson,
praying that this time we pardon.

No - continued Catalina with sudden energy, - that can you please yourself, but as I've come
back, by the window, or I stay at this place.

And suddenly dropped on Carolina, who was crying on a pile of snow, and shook strength.

- Then sleep. Chito! Streets! What is that?

You could hear the bells a few collars and darkness was coming towards
them a sleigh with a single conductor.

- Let's hide, girls: if someone
who knows us, we are lost.

Fortunately, it was not, and before they could put into effect his
thought, a voice unknown to their ears, but kind and pleasant timbre,
asked if he could be helpful in something.

It was a beautiful man in a sealskin coat, his head covered a cap to the body, and his face
partially covered by a scarf too fur could be seen only a few long whiskers and two black eyes
vivid.

- A son of the old St. Nicholas - Adelaide said quietly.

The girls, natural voice chatting, lying on the sled, regained their previous tranquility.

-
Where are you going to take? - Peacefully said the unknown subject.

There were, including rapidly consulted, and finally, Catalina said
with determination:

- Al Crammer Institute.

Quietly climbed the hill to the long, ascetic building was pointed
out to them.

The stranger suddenly dropped the reins and asked:

- Where do you go? You know the way better than me.

- The rear window - Catalina said with sudden and startling candor.

- I understand! - Guide replied the stranger calmly.

And when he dismounted, removed the bells sound horses.

- Now we
can approach as much as you want - added by way of explanation.

-
Certainly a son of St. Nicholas - said softly Adelaide - could not
ask news of his father?

- Silence! - Catalina said with decision,
- it may be an angel.

And with delightful inconsistency perfectly understood by his female audience, he continued:

- We made three visions.

Cautiously jumped the fence and finally stopped a few feet away from
a dark wall.

The stranger ayudolas to alight.

The confused and dim light of sunset shimmered in snow, and as the guide had beautiful hands with
his companions, each of these was subjected to a thorough examination,
but respectful.

Clothed in the most serious ayudolas to open the window, then retire quietly to the sled until
he finished the difficult and if access is not broken inside. He then returned to the window.

- Thank you, good night - girls murmured at a time.

One of the three figures was still in the window, and the stranger leaned over the railing.

-
Let me turn here this cigarette, as the light of phosphorus out there might call attention?

With the help of this light could see Catalina nicely framed in the
window.

Consumiose the match slowly between his fingers, and a mischievous
smile appeared on the lips of Catalina.

The astute young man had understood so poor subterfuge. What he had to assert, then, be first
of its kind, and what not, parents have paid the tuition for three
consecutive years?

The next day the storm had ceased, and the sun shining and cheerful
living room study, when Catherine of Corlear, which had its place
beside the window, She took pathetically hand on his heart and fell
on the shoulder of his neighbor Carolina, simulating a sudden fading.

-
You are here - sighed.

- Who? - Said Carolina forward, never clearly
understood that when Catalina formal speaking.

- Who?

For the man who saved us last night! I see him just now reaching
the door.

Calla: in a moment I'll be better.

And pathetically hypocritical passed his hand across his forehead
with a tragic manner.

- What do you want? - Carolina asked with ever
increasing curiosity.

- Ask him - he said .-- Catherine casually
may give the school their five daughters.

May want to improve the education of his wife and put on guard against us.

- Well, girl, do not look old, and fewer married - Adelaide replied
doctrinally.

- Poor girl!

That means nothing! - Catalina skeptical answered .-- Can not a never
say anything about these men ... They are so fake!

Besides, I always I have such bad luck.

- Well ... Catalina! - Began Carolina.

- Silence! The lady is going to say something - Catalina said with a smile.

- The boarders will do the favor of paying attention - a voice said quietly indolent .-- In
the parlor asking for Miss Carolina Galba.

Don Juan Prince, name stamped on the card and in various letters and credentials submitted the
Rev. Mr. Crammer, paced impatiently about the severe room officially designated with the reception
hall name, and privately among females with that of purgatory. With this scrutiny examining the
hard details of the room, from the polished furnace steam like a huge soda-cracker coating, which
heated one end of the fourth to the monumental bust of Dr. Crammer, who shudder at the other,
from the Paternoster drawn by a former teacher of calligraphy, with such a variety of stylish
features writing, which greatly diminished the value of the composition, three views population,
taken from the natural from the Institute, professor of drawing, and that nobody had been able to recognize,
from two events illustrated the Old Testament, written in letters English, so horribly remote
froze all human interest, to a large photograph of the upper class, in which the prettiest
girls were the color Ethiopic, sitting, apparently, some heads and shoulders above the others.
Mechanically flipped through the pages school catalogs, the sermons
of Dr. Crammer, the Poems of Henry Kirke White, the Legends of the
Sanctuary and Lives of celebrated women, his vivid imagination and
nervously heightened for their particular situation, it represented
the tender and touching farewell meetings that should have taken place
there, and that the room extrañose not keep something that could expressing
such human feelings, and even had almost forgotten the object of his
visit when opened the door to make way for Carolina Galba.

The visitor's face he had glimpsed the night before, seemed even more
beautiful what had seemed then, however, was as confused or discontent,
though he could not expect to find such a beautiful creature. No wedding speeches, when nobody wants
to make them, and nobody wants to hear them. And no false sentiment, shedding tears and reddening
noses, on the happiest day in the whole year. A model marriage! I could desire nothing better,
if I had any prospect of being a bride myself."

They went away for their honeymoon to a quiet place by the seaside, not very far from the town
in which Eunice had passed some of the happiest and the wretchedest days in her life. She persisted
in thinking it possible that Mr. Gracedieu might recover the use of his faculties, at the last,
and might wish to see her on his death-bed. "His adopted daughter," she gently reminded me,
"is his only daughter now." The doctor shook his head when I told him what Eunice had said
to me--and, the sad truth must be told, the doctor was right.

Miss Jillgall returned, on the wedding-day, to take care of the good man who had befriended
her in her hour of need.

Before the end of the week, I heard from her, and was disagreeably reminded of an incident
which we had both forgotten, absorbed as we were in other and greater interests, at the time.

Mrs. Tenbruggen had again appeared on the scene! She had written to Miss Jillgall, from Paris,
to say that she had heard of old Mr. Dunboyne's death, and that she wished to have the letter
returned, which she had left for delivery to Philip's father on the day when Philip and Eunice
were married. I had my own suspicions of what that letter might contain; and I regretted that
Miss Jillgall had sent it back without first waiting to consult me. My misgivings, thus excited,
were increased by more news of no very welcome kind. Mrs. Tenbruggen had decided on returning
to her professional pursuits in England. Massage, now the fashion everywhere, had put money
into her pocket among the foreigners; and her husband, finding that she persisted in keeping
out of his reach, had consented to a compromise. He was ready to submit to a judicial separation;
in consideration of a little income which his wife had consented to settle on him, under the
advice of her lawyer.

Some days later, I received a delightful letter from Philip and Eunice; reminding me that I
had engaged to pay them a visit at the seaside. My room was ready for me, and I was left to
choose my own day. I had just begun to write my reply, gladly accepting the invitation, when
an ominous circumstance occurred. My servant announced "a lady"; and I found myself face to
face with--Mrs. Tenbruggen!

She was as cheerful as ever, and as eminently agreeable as ever.

"I have heard it all from Selina," she said. "Philip's marriage to Eunice (I shall go and congratulate
them, of course), and the catastrophe (how dramatic!) of Helena Gracedieu. I warned. Selina
that Miss Helena would end badly. To tell the truth, she frightened me. I don't deny that I
am a mischievous woman when I find myself affronted, quite capable of taking my revenge in
my own small spiteful way. But poison and murder--ah, the frightful subject! let us drop it,
and talk of something that doesn't make my hair (it's really my own hair) stand on end. Has
Selina told you that I have got rid of my charming husband, on easy pecuniary terms? Oh, you
know that? Very well. I will tell you something that you don't know. Mr. Governor, I have found
you out."

"May I venture to ask how?"

"When I guessed which was which of those two girls," she answered, "and guessed wrong, you
deliberately encouraged the mistake. Very clever, but you overdid it. From that moment, though
I kept it to myself, I began to fear I might be wrong. Do you remember Low Lanes, my dear sir?
A charming old church. I have had another consultation with my lawyer. His questions led me
into mentioning how it happened that I heard of Low Lanes. After looking again at his memorandum
of the birth advertised in the newspaper without naming the place--he proposed trying the church
register at Low Lanes. Need I tell you the result? I know, as well as you do, that Philip has
married the adopted child. He has had a mother-in-law who was hanged, and, what is more, he
has the honor, through his late father, of being otherwise connected with the murderess by
marriage--as his aunt!"

Bewilderment and dismay deprived me of my presence of mind. "How did you discover that?" I
was foolish enough to ask.

"Do you remember when I brought the baby to the prison?" she said. "The father--as I mentioned
at the time--had been a dear and valued friend of mine. No person could be better qualified
to tell me who had married his wife's sister. If that lady had been living, I should never
have been troubled with the charge of the child. Any more questions?"

"Only one. Is Philip to hear of this?"

"Oh, for shame! I don't deny that Philip insulted me grossly, in one way; and that Philip's
late father insulted me grossly, in another way. But Mamma Tenbruggen is a Christian. She returns
good for evil, and wouldn't for the world disturb the connubial felicity of Mr. and Mrs. Philip
Dunboyne."

The moment the woman was out of my house, I sent a telegram to Philip to say that he might
expect to see me that night. I caught the last train in the evening; and I sat down to supper
with those two harmless young creatures, knowing I must prepare the husband for what threatened
them, and weakly deferring it, when I found myself in their presence, until the next day. Eunice
was, in some degree, answerable for this hesitation on my part. No one could look at her husband,
and fail to see that he was a supremely happy man. But I detected signs of care in the wife's face.

Before breakfast the next morning I was out on the beach, trying to decide how the inevitable
disclosure might be made. Eunice joined me. Now, when we were alone, I asked if she was really
and completely happy. Quietly and sadly she answered: "Not yet."

I hardly knew what to say. My face must have expressed disappointment and surprise.

"I shall never be quite happy," she resumed, "till I know what it is that you kept from me
on that memorable day. I don't like having a secret from my husband--though it is not my secret."

"Remember your promise," I said

"I don't forget it," she answered. "I can only wish that my promise would keep back the thoughts
that come to me in spite of myself."

"What thoughts?"

"There is something, as I fear, in the story of my parents which you are afraid to confide
to me. Why did Mr. Gracedieu allow me to believe and leave everybody to believe, that I was
his own child?"

"My dear, I relieved your mind of those doubts on the morning of your marriage."

"No. I was only thinking of myself at that time. My mother--the doubt of her is the doubt that
torments me now."

"What do you mean?"

She put her arm in mine, and held by it with both hands.

"The mock-mother!" she whispered. "Do you remember that dreadful Vision, that horrid whispering
temptation in the dead of night? Was it a mock-mother? Oh, pity me! I don't know who my mother
was. One horrid thought about her is a burden on my mind. If she was a good woman, you who
love me would surely have made me happy by speaking of her?"

Those words decided me at last. Could she suffer more than she had suffered already, if I trusted
her with the truth? I ran the risk. There was a time of silence that filled me with terror.
The interval passed. She took my hand, and put it to her heart. "Does it beat as if I was frightened?"
she asked.

No! It was beating calmly.

"Does it relieve your anxiety?"

It told me that I had not surprised her. That unforgotten Vision of the night had prepared
her for the worst, after the time when I had told her that she was an adopted child. "I know,"
I said, "that those whispered temptations overpowered you again, when you and Helena met on
the stairs, and you forbade her to enter Philip's room. And I know that love had conquered
once more, when you were next seen sitting by Philip's bedside. Tell me--have you any misgivings
now? Is there fear in your heart of the return of that tempting spirit in you, in the time
to come?"

"Not while Philip lives!"

There, where her love was--there her safety was. And she knew it! She suddenly left me. I asked
where she was going.

"To tell Philip," was the reply.

She was waiting for me at the door, when I followed her to the house.

"Is it done?" I said.

"It is done," she answered.

"What did he say?"

"He said: 'My darling, if I could be fonder of you than ever, I should be fonder of you now.'"

I have been blamed for being too ready to confide to Philip the precious trust of Eunice's
happiness. If that reply does not justify me, where is justification to be found?

POSTSCRIPT.

Later in the day, Mrs. Tenbruggen arrived to offer her congratulations. She asked for a few
minutes with Philip alone. As a cat elaborates her preparations for killing a mouse, so the
human cat elaborated her preparations for killing Philip's happiness, he remained uninjured
by her teeth and her claws. "Somebody," she said, "has told you of it already?" And Philip
answered: "Yes; my wife."

For some months longer, Mr. Gracedieu lingered. One morning, he said to Eunice: "I want to
teach you to knit. Sit by me, and see me do it." His hands fell softly on his lap; his head
sank little by little on her shoulder. She could just hear him whisper: "How pleasant it is
to sleep!" Never was Death's dreadful work more gently done.

Our married pair live now on the paternal estate in Ireland; and Miss Jillgall reigns queen
of domestic affairs. I am still strong enough to pass my autumn holidays in that pleasant house.

At times, my memory reverts to Helena Gracedieu, and to what I discovered when I had seen her
diary.

How little I knew of that terrible creature when I first met with her, and fancied that she
had inherited her mother's character! It was weak indeed to compare the mean vices of Mrs.
Gracedieu with the diabolical depravity of her daughter. - Not like you go, "she said. I fear something terrible happens to you: but go, because they want
and can not be avoided. Take, however, this box, and very careful not to open it. If you open it,
will never be able to see me again. There are virtues that exalt us,
and vices that degrade us, whose mysterious origin is, not in our parents, but in ourselves.
When I think of Helena, I ask myself, where is the trace which reveals that the first murder
in the world was the product of inherited crime?

The criminal left the prison, on the expiration of her sentence, so secretly that it was impossible
to trace her. Some months later, Miss Jillgall received an illustrated newspaper published
in the United States. She showed me one of the portraits in it.

"Do you recognize the illustrious original?" she asked, with indignant emphasis on the last
two words. I
should add here that is not dispensed by any means, nor apologized diligence to ensure The costumes
and scenic pomp and corresponded and even enhanced the greatness and solemn majesty of the
argument. My production now stripped of all the beauties they then lent claim will be very difficult
to like. I, however, I venture to insert here relied on the indulgence of the public and to please
the many friends and acquaintances who wish to have it in print.
 It was reserved for the mightier spirit of woman to lay the foundations
more firmly, and to dedicate one of the noblest edifices in this city to the Worship of Pure
Reason. Readers who wish for further information will do well to provide themselves with the
Reverend Miss Gracedieu's Orations--the tenth edition of which is advertised in our columns."

"I once asked you," Miss Jillgall reminded me, "what Helena would do when she came out of prison,
and you said she would do very well. Oh, Mr. Governor, Solomon was nothing to You!"

