 However, is yet spoiled,
I will tomorrow go to him, the Sultan is perhaps not so busy then. "

However fierce as the fire of love burning in Alaeddin bosom, he had to but this Sorry to be
content with arming and patience. He at least had the satisfaction see that his mother already
taken the hardest step, and the sight of the Sultan had endured, and so he could hope that,
like the others, who in her presence had spoken to him, would not hesitate to get rid of their
mission as soon as a fitting time to speak came.

The next morning Alaeddin mother went with her as early gift to the palace the Sultan, but she
made this transition in vain, for she found the door of the divan shut and learned that only
every other day was meeting and they come so the next day again needed. She returned to now
and brought this message to her son, who thus again patience had to take. Only six times they
went to certain days in the palace, but always with equally little success, and perhaps they
would have run a hundred times in vain, if not the Sultan, who saw
it over at any meeting of himself, finally took notice grown on them
would be.

That day finally said the Sultan, when he repealed after meeting in his chambers was returned
to his Grand Vizier: "For some time I notice a certain Woman who comes regularly every day,
where I keep meeting, and something wrapped in canvas has in his
hand.

It remains from beginning to want to end the session, and always just to me. You know very well
what is your desire? "

The grand vizier, who knew so little, when the sultan, however no response was guilty . Remain
"Lord," he said, "it is well known to you that the women mostly on minor matters Action lead.
This comes as there seems to be to complain to you that perhaps bad Flour sold to them or
else their wrong has caused the concern of just is so little. " The sultan was not satisfied
with that answer and said, "If this woman at the next Meeting will
return, do not forget, they call to let on that I hear it.

"The Grand Vizier kissed his hand and placed it on his head as a sign that he was prepared to
refuse to leave him if he does not fulfill this command.

Alaeddin's mother was already so accustomed to appear in the divan
in front of the Sultan that they respected their trouble for nothing,
unless they could only show her son how much she's Affairs are allowed
to do for him everything in her power.

She went on meeting day back to the palace and stood as usual at the entrance opposite the divan the
Sultan.

The grand vizier had not yet begun his presentation when the Sultan Alaeddin saw mother. This
long patience, which he considered himself did with him. "Lest you forget it," he said to the
grand vizier, "there is again the woman that I told you recently
said: let them enter here, then we first want to hear their case and
the pure .

Bring 'At once the woman was the Grand Vizier, the chief of the bouncer that his Command was
ready and told him they introduce more detail.

The captain of the doormen came to Alaeddin mother and gave her a sign, she followed him to
to the foot of the royal throne, where he left them to meet again next to his seat to ask the grand
vizier.

Alaeddin mother followed the example of others who saw her speak to
the Sultan had: they threw themselves on the ground, touched her forehead
to the carpet, the steps of the throne covered, and remained in that
position until the Sultan ordered her to stand up.

When she got up was, he said to her: "Good woman, I see you for a long time to come into my couch
and from beginning to end, there are at the entrance. What will matter up here? "

Alaeddin mother threw herself when she heard these words, for the
second time to the ground, and after they had risen, she said: "The
most sublime of all the kings of the world before I you the extraordinary
and almost incredible thing, tell me the results before your high
throne, I beg of you, will forgive me the audacity of the concern,
I present to you. "I
was not sick, as you seemed to believe, and I'm not sick now. But I can tell you this much, what
I've felt and what I still constantly feel, is far more worse than a disease. Although I do not quite
know what to call this, I do not doubt that you'll recognize it from what I can tell you now."
Alaeddin continued, "Yesterday afternoon the daughter of the Sultan
went to the bathroom.

Since I was not far from the beach, it brought curiosity, she unveiled which brought the idea to
hide behind the door of the bathroom. Honestly, she took off her veil in front of the entrance and
I had the good fortune, to my inexpressible pleasure, to see the charming princess. I love the princess
with a glow; I cannot describe it to you, and with each increasing moment my passion gets hotter.
I feel comfortable that the passion can only be satisfied by the possession, so I decided to ask
the Sultan for his wife." Alaeddin's mother had to talk to her son with great attention, down
to the last words, but when she heard what he had in mind, for the
hand of Princess Bedrulbudur, she could not help but to break into
laughter.

Alaeddin went on, but they did not let him kneel to the floor and
said to him: "Oh, oh, my Son, what are you thinking?

Have you gone mad, that you can say such things? " "Dear mother," Alaeddin replied, "I can assure
you that I'm not mad, but I'm all for understanding."
 A short while later Aladin looked in awe at the results of his wish (even
though he knew how it had happened).
The spirit appeared again and Aladin found himself returned to his
apartment just as the gate of the Sultan's Palace opened. When
he arrived and had seen the palace from all angles, he knew for a fact that Alaeddin had
used the lamp. Such wonders could only be created by the magic of the lamp.
 Well then, educate them like men. A half hour from the city, horsemen
surrounded him and their leader said, "We must arrest you as a criminal on the Sultan's orders,
Prince Alaeddin, but we ask that you think well of us and forgive us, because we are just doing our
duty." He was most surprised because he knew his own innocence.


