"No; I think of them very highly. It must be better to deal with the repeal of laws than the
defending of criminals. But all this is papa's wisdom, not mine. Papa has never been in the
Cabinet yet, and therefore of course he is a little caustic."

"I think he was quite right," said Barrington Erle stoutly. He spoke so stoutly that everybody
at the table listened to him.

"I don't exactly see the necessity for such internecine war just at present," said Lord Brentford.

"I must say I do," said the other. "Lord de Terrier took office knowing that he was in a minority.
We had a fair majority of nearly thirty when he came in."

"Then how very soft you must have been to go out," said Miss Fitzgibbon.

"Not in the least soft," continued Barrington Erle. "We could not command our men, and were
bound to go out. For aught we knew, some score of them might have chosen to support Lord de
Terrier, and then we should have owned ourselves beaten for the time."

"You were beaten,--hollow," said Miss Fitzgibbon.

"Then why did Lord de Terrier dissolve?"

"A Prime Minister is quite right to dissolve in such a position," said Lord Brentford. "He
must do so for the Queen's sake. It is his only chance."

"Just so. It is, as you say, his only chance, and it is his right. His very possession of power
will give him near a score of votes, and if he thinks that he has a chance, let him try it.
We maintain that he had no chance, and that he must have known that he had none;--that if he
could not get on with the late House, he certainly could not get on with a new House. We let
him have his own way as far as we could in February. We had failed last summer, and if he could
get along he was welcome. But he could not get along."

"I must say I think he was right to dissolve," said Lady Laura.

"And we are right to force the consequences upon him as quickly as we can. He practically lost
nine seats by his dissolution. Look at Loughshane."

"Yes; look at Loughshane," said Miss Fitzgibbon. "The country at any rate has gained something
there."

"It's an ill wind that blows nobody any good, Mr. Finn," said the Earl.

"What on earth is to become of poor George?" said Mr. Fitzgibbon. "I wonder whether any one
knows where he is. George wasn't a bad sort of fellow."

"Roby used to think that he was a very bad fellow," said Mr. Bonteen. "Roby used to swear that
it was hopeless trying to catch him." It may be as well to explain that Mr. Roby was a Conservative
gentleman of great fame who had for years acted as Whip under Mr. Daubeny, and who now filled
the high office of Patronage Secretary to the Treasury. "I believe in my heart," continued
Mr. Bonteen, "that Roby is rejoiced that poor George Morris should be out in the cold."

"If seats were halveable, he should share mine, for the sake of auld lang syne," said Laurence
Fitzgibbon.

"But not to-morrow night," said Barrington Erle; "the division to-morrow will be a thing not
to be joked with. Upon my word I think they're right about old Moody. All private considerations
should give way. And as for Gunning, I'd have him up or I'd know the reason why."

"And shall we have no defaulters, Barrington?" asked Lady Laura.

"I'm not going to boast, but I don't know of one for whom we need blush. Sir Everard Powell
is so bad with gout that he can't even bear any one to look at him, but Ratler says that he'll
bring him up." Mr. Ratler was in those days the Whip on the liberal side of the House.

"Unfortunate wretch!" said Miss Fitzgibbon.

"The worst of it is that he screams in his paroxysms," said Mr. Bonteen.

"And you mean to say that you'll take him into the lobby," said Lady Laura.

"Undoubtedly," said Barrington Erle. "Why not? He has no business with a seat if he can't vote.
But Sir Everard is a good man, and he'll be there if laudanum and bath-chair make it possible."

The same kind of conversation went on during the whole of dinner, and became, if anything,
more animated when the three ladies had left the room. Mr. Kennedy made but one remark, and
then he observed that as far as he could see a majority of nineteen would be as serviceable
as a majority of twenty. This he said in a very mild voice, and in a tone that was intended
to be expressive of doubt; but in spite of his humility Barrington Erle flew at him almost
savagely,--as though a liberal member of the House of Commons was disgraced by so mean a spirit;
and Phineas found himself despising the man for his want of zeal.

"If we are to beat them, let us beat them well," said Phineas.

"Let there be no doubt about it," said Barrington Erle.

"I should like to see every man with a seat polled," said Bonteen.

"Poor Sir Everard!" said Lord Brentford. "It will kill him, no doubt, but I suppose the seat
is safe."

"Oh, yes; Llanwrwsth is quite safe," said Barrington, in his eagerness omitting to catch Lord
Brentford's grim joke.

Phineas went up into the drawing-room for a few minutes after dinner, and was eagerly desirous
of saying a few more words,--he knew not what words,--to Lady Laura. Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Bonteen
had left the dining-room first, and Phineas again found Mr. Kennedy standing close to Lady
Laura's shoulder. Could it be possible that there was anything in it? Mr. Kennedy was an unmarried
man, with an immense fortune, a magnificent place, a seat in Parliament, and was not perhaps
above forty years of age. There could be no reason why he should not ask Lady Laura to be his
wife,--except, indeed, that he did not seem to have sufficient words at command to ask anybody
for anything. But could it be that such a woman as Lady Laura could accept such a man as Mr.
Kennedy because of his wealth, and because of his fine place,--a man who had not a word to
throw to a dog, who did not seem to be possessed of an idea, who hardly looked like a gentleman;--so
Phineas told himself. But in truth Mr. Kennedy, though he was a plain, unattractive man, with
nothing in his personal appearance to call for remark, was not unlike a gentleman in his usual
demeanour. Phineas himself, it may be here said, was six feet high, and very handsome, with
bright blue eyes, and brown wavy hair, and light silken beard. Mrs. Low had told her husband
more than once that he was much too handsome to do any good. Mr. Low, however, had replied
that young Finn had never shown himself to be conscious of his own personal advantages. "He'll
learn it soon enough," said Mrs. Low. "Some woman will tell him, and then he'll be spoilt."
I do not think that Phineas depended much as yet on his own good looks, but he felt that Mr.
Kennedy ought to be despised by such a one as Lady Laura Standish, because his looks were not
good. And she must despise him! It could not be that a woman so full of life should be willing
to put up with a man who absolutely seemed to have no life within him. And yet why was he there,
and why was he allowed to hang about just over her shoulders? Phineas Finn began to feel himself
to be an injured man.

But Lady Laura had the power of dispelling instantly this sense of injury. She had done it
effectually in the dining-room by calling him to the seat by her side, to the express exclusion
of the millionaire, and she did it again now by walking away from Mr. Kennedy to the spot on
which Phineas had placed himself somewhat sulkily.

"Of course you'll be at the club on Friday morning after the division," she said.

"No doubt."

"When you leave it, come and tell me what are your impressions, and what you think of Mr. Daubeny's
speech. There'll be nothing done in the House before four, and you'll be able to run up to me."

"Certainly I will."

"I have asked Mr. Kennedy to come, and Mr. Fitzgibbon. I am so anxious about it, that I want
to hear what different people say. You know, perhaps, that papa is to be in the Cabinet if
there's a change."

"Is he indeed?"

"Oh yes;--and you'll come up?"

"Of course I will. Do you expect to hear much of an opinion from Mr. Kennedy?"

"Yes, I do. You don't quite know Mr. Kennedy yet. And you must remember that he will say more
to me than he will to you. He's not quick, you know, as you are, and he has no enthusiasm on
any subject;--but he has opinions, and sound opinions too." Phineas felt that Lady Laura was
in a slight degree scolding him for the disrespectful manner in which he had spoken of Mr.
Kennedy; and he felt also that he had committed himself,--that he had shown himself to be sore,
and that she had seen and understood his soreness.

"The truth is I do not know him," said he, trying to correct his blunder.

"No;--not as yet. But I hope that you may some day, as he is one of those men who are both
useful and estimable."

"I do not know that I can use him," said Phineas; "but if you wish it, I will endeavour to
esteem him."

"I wish you to do both;--but that will all come in due time. I think it probable that in the
early autumn there will be a great gathering of the real Whig Liberals at Loughlinter;--of
those, I mean, who have their heart in it, and are at the same time gentlemen. If it is so,
I should be sorry that you should not be there. You need not mention it, but Mr. Kennedy has
just said a word about it to papa, and a word from him always means so much! Well;--good-night;
and mind you come up on Friday. You are going to the club, now, of course. I envy you men your
clubs more than I do the House;--though I feel that a woman's life is only half a life, as
she cannot have a seat in Parliament."

Then Phineas went away, and walked down to Pall Mall with Laurence Fitzgibbon. He would have
preferred to take his walk alone, but he could not get rid of his affectionate countryman.
He wanted to think over what had taken place during the evening; and, indeed, he did so in
spite of his friend's conversation. Lady Laura, when she first saw him after his return to
London, had told him how anxious her father was to congratulate him on his seat, but the Earl
had not spoken a word to him on the subject. The Earl had been courteous, as hosts customarily
are, but had been in no way specially kind to him. And then Mr. Kennedy! As to going to Loughlinter,
he would not do such a thing,--not though the success of the liberal party were to depend on
it. He declared to himself that there were some things which a man could not do. But although
he was not altogether satisfied with what had occurred in Portman Square, he felt as he walked
down arm-in-arm with Fitzgibbon that Mr. Low and Mr. Low's counsels must be scattered to the
winds. He had thrown the die in consenting to stand for Loughshane, and must stand the hazard
of the cast.

"Bedad, Phin, my boy, I don't think you're listening to me at all," said Laurence Fitzgibbon.

"I'm listening to every word you say," said Phineas.

"And if I have to go down to the ould country again this session, you'll go with me?"

"If I can I will."

"That's my boy! And it's I that hope you'll have the chance. What's the good of turning these
fellows out if one isn't to get something for one's trouble?"

CHAPTER VII

Mr. and Mrs. Bunce

It was three o'clock on the Thursday night before Mr. Daubeny's speech was finished. I do not
think that there was any truth in the allegation made at the time, that he continued on his
legs an hour longer than the necessities of his speech required, in order that five or six
very ancient Whigs might be wearied out and shrink to their beds. Let a Whig have been ever
so ancient and ever so weary, he would not have been allowed to depart from Westminster Hall
that night. Sir Everard Powell was there in his bath-chair at twelve, with a doctor on one
side of him and a friend on the other, in some purlieu of the House, and did his duty like
a fine old Briton as he was. That speech of Mr. Daubeny's will never be forgotten by any one
who heard it. Its studied bitterness had perhaps never been equalled, and yet not a word was
uttered for the saying of which he could be accused of going beyond the limits of parliamentary
antagonism. It is true that personalities could not have been closer, that accusations of political
dishonesty and of almost worse than political cowardice and falsehood could not have been clearer,
that no words in the language could have attributed meaner motives or more unscrupulous conduct.
But, nevertheless, Mr. Daubeny in all that he said was parliamentary, and showed himself to
be a gladiator thoroughly well trained for the arena in which he had descended to the combat.
His arrows were poisoned, and his lance was barbed, and his shot was heated red,--because such
things are allowed. He did not poison his enemies' wells or use Greek fire, because those things
are not allowed. He knew exactly the rules of the combat. Mr. Mildmay sat and heard him without
once raising his hat from his brow, or speaking a word to his neighbour. Men on both sides
of the House said that Mr. Mildmay suffered terribly; but as Mr. Mildmay uttered no word of
complaint to any one, and was quite ready to take Mr. Daubeny by the hand the next time they
met in company, I do not know that any one was able to form a true idea of Mr. Mildmay's feelings.
Mr. Mildmay was an impassive man who rarely spoke of his own feelings, and no doubt sat with
his hat low down over his eyes in order that no man might judge of them on that occasion by
the impression on his features. "If he could have left off half an hour earlier it would have
been perfect as an attack," said Barrington Erle in criticising Mr. Daubeny's speech, "but
he allowed himself to sink into comparative weakness, and the glory of it was over before the
end."--Then came the division. The Liberals had 333 votes to 314 for the Conservatives, and
therefore counted a majority of 19. It was said that so large a number of members had never
before voted at any division.

"I own I'm disappointed," said Barrington Erle to Mr. Ratler.

"I thought there would be twenty," said Mr. Ratler. "I never went beyond that. I knew they
would have old Moody up, but I thought Gunning would have been too hard for them."

"They say they've promised them both peerages."

"Yes;--if they remain in. But they know they're going out."

"They must go, with such a majority against them," said Barrington Erle.

"Of course they must," said Mr. Ratler. "Lord de Terrier wants nothing better, but it is rather
hard upon poor Daubeny. I never saw such an unfortunate old Tantalus."

"He gets a good drop of real water now and again, and I don't pity him in the least. He's clever
of course, and has made his own way, but I've always a feeling that he has no business where
he is. I suppose we shall know all about it at Brooks's by one o'clock to-morrow."

Phineas, though it had been past five before he went to bed,--for there had been much triumphant
talking to be done among liberal members after the division,--was up at his breakfast at Mrs.
Bunce's lodgings by nine. There was a matter which he was called upon to settle immediately
in which Mrs. Bunce herself was much interested, and respecting which he had promised to give
an answer on this very morning. A set of very dingy chambers up two pairs of stairs at No.
9, Old Square, Lincoln's Inn, to which Mr. Low had recommended him to transfer himself and
all his belongings, were waiting his occupation, should he resolve upon occupying them. If
he intended to commence operations as a barrister, it would be necessary that he should have
chambers and a clerk; and before he had left Mr. Low's house on Sunday evening he had almost
given that gentleman authority to secure for him these rooms at No. 9. "Whether you remain
in Parliament or no, you must make a beginning," Mr. Low had said; "and how are you even to
pretend to begin if you don't have chambers?" Mr. Low hoped that he might be able to wean Phineas
away from his Parliament bauble;--that he might induce the young barrister to give up his madness,
if not this session or the next, at any rate before a third year had commenced. Mr. Low was
a persistent man, liking very much when he did like, and loving very strongly when he did love.
He would have many a tug for Phineas Finn before he would allow that false Westminster Satan
to carry off the prey as altogether his own. If he could only get Phineas into the dingy chambers
he might do much!

But Phineas had now become so imbued with the atmosphere of politics, had been so breathed
upon by Lady Laura and Barrington Erle, that he could no longer endure the thought of any other
life than that of a life spent among the lobbies. A desire to help to beat the Conservatives
had fastened on his very soul, and almost made Mr. Low odious in his eyes. He was afraid of
Mr. Low, and for the nonce would not go to him any more;--but he must see the porter at Lincoln's
Inn, he must write a line to Mr. Low, and he must tell Mrs. Bunce that for the present he would
still keep on her rooms. His letter to Mr. Low was as follows:--

   Great Marlborough Street, May, 186--.

   MY DEAR LOW,

   I have made up my mind against taking the chambers, and am
   now off to the Inn to say that I shall not want them. Of
   course, I know what you will think of me, and it is very
   grievous to me to have to bear the hard judgment of a man
   whose opinion I value so highly; but, in the teeth of your
   terribly strong arguments, I think that there is something
   to be said on my side of the question. This seat in
   Parliament has come in my way by chance, and I think it
   would be pusillanimous in me to reject it, feeling, as I
   do, that a seat in Parliament confers very great honour. I
   am, too, very fond of politics, and regard legislation as
   the finest profession going. Had I any one dependent on
   me, I probably might not be justified in following the
   bent of my inclination. But I am all alone in the world,
   and therefore have a right to make the attempt. If, after
   a trial of one or two sessions, I should fail in that
   which I am attempting, it will not even then be too late
   to go back to the better way. I can assure you that at any
   rate it is not my intention to be idle.

   I know very well how you will fret and fume over what I
   say, and how utterly I shall fail in bringing you round to
   my way of thinking; but as I must write to tell you of my
   decision, I cannot refrain from defending myself to the
   best of my ability.

   Yours always faithfully,

   PHINEAS FINN.

Mr. Low received this letter at his chambers, and when he had read it, he simply pressed his
lips closely together, placed the sheet of paper back in its envelope, and put it into a drawer
at his left hand. Having done this, he went on with what work he had before him, as though
his friend's decision were a matter of no consequence to him. As far as he was concerned the
thing was done, and there should be an end of it. So he told himself; but nevertheless his
mind was full of it all day; and, though he wrote not a word of answer to Phineas, he made
a reply within his own mind to every one of the arguments used in the letter. "Great honour!
How can there be honour in what comes, as he says, by chance? He hasn't sense enough to understand
that the honour comes from the mode of winning it, and from the mode of wearing it; and that
the very fact of his being member for Loughshane at this instant simply proves that Loughshane
should have had no privilege to return a member! No one dependent on him! Are not his father
and his mother and his sisters dependent on him as long as he must eat their bread till he
can earn bread of his own? He will never earn bread of his own. He will always be eating bread
that others have earned." In this way, before the day was over, Mr. Low became very angry,
and swore to himself that he would have nothing more to say to Phineas Finn. But yet he found
himself creating plans for encountering and conquering the parliamentary fiend who was at present
so cruelly potent with his pupil. It was not till the third evening that he told his wife that
Finn had made up his mind not to take chambers. "Then I would have nothing more to say to him,"
said Mrs. Low, savagely. "For the present I can have nothing more to say to him." "But neither
now nor ever," said Mrs. Low, with great emphasis; "he has been false to you." "No," said Mr.
Low, who was a man thoroughly and thoughtfully just at all points; "he has not been false to
me. He has always meant what he has said, when he was saying it. But he is weak and blind,
and flies like a moth to the candle; one pities the poor moth, and would save him a stump of
his wing if it be possible."

Phineas, when he had written his letter to Mr. Low, started off for Lincoln's Inn, making his
way through the well-known dreary streets of Soho, and through St. Giles's, to Long Acre. He
knew every corner well, for he had walked the same road almost daily for the last three years.
He had conceived a liking for the route, which he might easily have changed without much addition
to the distance, by passing through Oxford Street and Holborn; but there was an air of business
on which he prided himself in going by the most direct passage, and he declared to himself
very often that things dreary and dingy to the eye might be good in themselves. Lincoln's Inn
itself is dingy, and the Law Courts therein are perhaps the meanest in which Equity ever disclosed
herself. Mr. Low's three rooms in the Old Square, each of them brown with the binding of law
books and with the dust collected on law papers, and with furniture that had been brown always,
and had become browner with years, were perhaps as unattractive to the eye of a young pupil
as any rooms which were ever entered. And the study of the Chancery law itself is not an alluring
pursuit till the mind has come to have some insight into the beauty of its ultimate object.
Phineas, during his three years' course of reasoning on these things, had taught himself to
believe that things ugly on the outside might be very beautiful within; and had therefore come
to prefer crossing Poland Street and Soho Square, and so continuing his travels by the Seven
Dials and Long Acre. His morning walk was of a piece with his morning studies, and he took
pleasure in the gloom of both. But now the taste of his palate had been already changed by
the glare of the lamps in and about palatial Westminster, and he found that St. Giles's was
disagreeable. The ways about Pall Mall and across the Park to Parliament Street, or to the
Treasury, were much pleasanter, and the new offices in Downing Street, already half built,
absorbed all that interest which he had hitherto been able to take in the suggested but uncommenced
erection of new Law Courts in the neighbourhood of Lincoln's Inn. As he made his way to the
porter's lodge under the great gateway of Lincoln's Inn, he told himself that he was glad that
he had escaped, at any rate for a while, from a life so dull and dreary. If he could only sit
in chambers at the Treasury instead of chambers in that old court, how much pleasanter it would
be! After all, as regarded that question of income, it might well be that the Treasury chambers
should be the more remunerative, and the more quickly remunerative, of the two. And, as he
thought, Lady Laura might be compatible with the Treasury chambers and Parliament, but could
not possibly be made compatible with Old Square, Lincoln's Inn.

But nevertheless there came upon him a feeling of sorrow when the old man at the lodge seemed
to be rather glad than otherwise that he did not want the chambers. "Then Mr. Green can have
them," said the porter; "that'll be good news for Mr. Green. I don't know what the gen'lemen
'll do for chambers if things goes on as they're going." Mr. Green was welcome to the chambers
as far as Phineas was concerned; but Phineas felt nevertheless a certain amount of regret that
he should have been compelled to abandon a thing which was regarded both by the porter and
by Mr. Green as being so desirable. He had however written his letter to Mr. Low, and made
his promise to Barrington Erle, and was bound to Lady Laura Standish; and he walked out through
the old gateway into Chancery Lane, resolving that he would not even visit Lincoln's Inn again
for a year. There were certain books,--law books,--which he would read at such intervals of
leisure as politics might give him; but within the precincts of the Inns of Court he would
not again put his foot for twelve months, let learned pundits of the law,--such for instance
as Mr. and Mrs. Low,--say what they might.

He had told Mrs. Bunce, before he left his home after breakfast, that he should for the present
remain under her roof. She had been much gratified, not simply because lodgings in Great Marlborough
Street are less readily let than chambers in Lincoln's Inn, but also because it was a great
honour to her to have a member of Parliament in her house. Members of Parliament are not so
common about Oxford Street as they are in the neighbourhood of Pall Mall and St. James's Square.
But Mr. Bunce, when he came home to his dinner, did not join as heartily as he should have
done in his wife's rejoicing. Mr. Bunce was in the employment of certain copying law-stationers
in Carey Street, and had a strong belief in the law as a profession;--but he had none whatever
in the House of Commons. "And he's given up going into chambers?" said Mr. Bunce to his wife.

"Given it up altogether for the present," said Mrs. Bunce.

"And he don't mean to have no clerk?" said Mr. Bunce.

"Not unless it is for his Parliament work."

"There ain't no clerks wanted for that, and what's worse, there ain't no fees to pay 'em. I'll
tell you what it is, Jane;--if you don't look sharp there won't be nothing to pay you before long."

"And he in Parliament, Jacob!"

"There ain't no salary for being in Parliament. There are scores of them Parliament gents ain't
got so much as'll pay their dinners for 'em. And then if anybody does trust 'em, there's no
getting at 'em to make 'em pay as there is at other folk."

"I don't know that our Mr. Phineas will ever be like that, Jacob."

"That's gammon, Jane. That's the way as women gets themselves took in always. Our Mr. Phineas!
Why should our Mr. Phineas be better than anybody else?"

"He's always acted handsome, Jacob."

"There was one time he could not pay his lodgings for wellnigh nine months, till his governor
come down with the money. I don't know whether that was handsome. It knocked me about terrible,
I know."

"He always meant honest, Jacob."

"I don't know that I care much for a man's meaning when he runs short of money. How is he going
to see his way, with his seat in Parliament, and this giving up of his profession? He owes
us near a quarter now."

"He paid me two months this morning, Jacob; so he don't owe a farthing."

"Very well;--so much the better for us. I shall just have a few words with Mr. Low, and see
what he says to it. For myself I don't think half so much of Parliament folk as some do. They're
for promising everything before they's elected; but not one in twenty of 'em is as good as
his word when he gets there."

Mr. Bunce was a copying journeyman, who spent ten hours a day in Carey Street with a pen between
his fingers; and after that he would often spend two or three hours of the night with a pen
between his fingers in Marlborough Street. He was a thoroughly hard-working man, doing pretty
well in the world, for he had a good house over his head, and always could find raiment and
bread for his wife and eight children; but, nevertheless, he was an unhappy man because he
suffered from political grievances, or, I should more correctly say, that his grievances were
semi-political and semi-social. He had no vote, not being himself the tenant of the house in
Great Marlborough Street. The tenant was a tailor who occupied the shop, whereas Bunce occupied
the whole of the remainder of the premises. He was a lodger, and lodgers were not as yet trusted
with the franchise. And he had ideas, which he himself admitted to be very raw, as to the injustice
of the manner in which he was paid for his work. So much a folio, without reference to the
way in which his work was done, without regard to the success of his work, with no questions
asked of himself, was, as he thought, no proper way of remunerating a man for his labours.
He had long since joined a Trade Union, and for two years past had paid a subscription of a
shilling a week towards its funds. He longed to be doing some battle against his superiors,
and to be putting himself in opposition to his employers;--not that he objected personally
to Messrs. Foolscap, Margin, and Vellum, who always made much of him as a useful man;--but
because some such antagonism would be manly, and the fighting of some battle would be the right
thing to do. "If Labour don't mean to go to the wall himself," Bunce would say to his wife,
"Labour must look alive, and put somebody else there."

Mrs. Bunce was a comfortable motherly woman, who loved her husband but hated politics. As he
had an aversion to his superiors in the world because they were superiors, so had she a liking
for them for the same reason. She despised people poorer than herself, and thought it a fair
subject for boasting that her children always had meat for dinner. If it was ever so small
a morsel, she took care that they had it, in order that the boast might be maintained. The
world had once or twice been almost too much for her,--when, for instance, her husband had
been ill; and again, to tell the truth, for the last three months of that long period in which
Phineas had omitted to pay his bills; but she had kept a fine brave heart during those troubles,
and could honestly swear that the children always had a bit of meat, though she herself had
been occasionally without it for days together. At such times she would be more than ordinarily
meek to Mr. Margin, and especially courteous to the old lady who lodged in her first-floor
drawing-room,--for Phineas lived up two pairs of stairs,--and she would excuse such servility
by declaring that there was no knowing how soon she might want assistance. But her husband,
in such emergencies, would become furious and quarrelsome, and would declare that Labour was
going to the wall, and that something very strong must be done at once. That shilling which
Bunce paid weekly to the Union she regarded as being absolutely thrown away,--as much so as
though he cast it weekly into the Thames. And she had told him so, over and over again, making
heart-piercing allusions to the eight children and to the bit of meat. He would always endeavour
to explain to her that there was no other way under the sun for keeping Labour from being sent
to the wall;--but he would do so hopelessly and altogether ineffectually, and she had come
to regard him as a lunatic to the extent of that one weekly shilling.

She had a woman's instinctive partiality for comeliness in a man, and was very fond of Phineas
Finn because he was handsome. And now she was very proud of him because he was a member of
Parliament. She had heard,--from her husband, who had told her the fact with much disgust,--that
the sons of Dukes and Earls go into Parliament, and she liked to think that the fine young
man to whom she talked more or less every day should sit with the sons of Dukes and Earls.
When Phineas had really brought distress upon her by owing her some thirty or forty pounds,
she could never bring herself to be angry with him,--because he was handsome and because he
dined out with Lords. And she had triumphed greatly over her husband, who had desired to be
severe upon his aristocratic debtor, when the money had all been paid in a lump.

"I don't know that he's any great catch," Bunce had said, when the prospect of their lodger's
departure had been debated between them.

"Jacob," said his wife, "I don't think you feel it when you've got people respectable about you."

"The only respectable man I know," said Jacob, "is the man as earns his bread; and Mr. Finn,
as I take it, is a long way from that yet."

Phineas returned to his lodgings before he went down to his club, and again told Mrs. Bunce
that he had altogether made up his mind about the chambers. "If you'll keep me I shall stay
here for the first session I daresay."

"Of course we shall be only too proud, Mr. Finn; and though it mayn't perhaps be quite the
place for a member of Parliament--"

"But I think it is quite the place."

"It's very good of you to say so, Mr. Finn, and we'll do our very best to make you comfortable.
Respectable we are, I may say; and though Bunce is a bit rough sometimes--"

"Never to me, Mrs. Bunce."

"But he is rough,--and silly, too, with his radical nonsense, paying a shilling a week to a
nasty Union just for nothing. Still he means well, and there ain't a man who works harder for
his wife and children;--that I will say of him. And if he do talk politics--"

"But I like a man to talk politics, Mrs. Bunce."

"For a gentleman in Parliament of course it's proper; but I never could see what good it could
do to a law-stationer; and when he talks of Labour going to the wall, I always ask him whether
he didn't get his wages regular last Saturday. But, Lord love you, Mr. Finn, when a man as
is a journeyman has took up politics and joined a Trade Union, he ain't no better than a milestone
for his wife to take and talk to him."

After that Phineas went down to the Reform Club, and made one of those who were buzzing there
in little crowds and uttering their prophecies as to future events. Lord de Terrier was to
go out. That was certain. Whether Mr. Mildmay was to come in was uncertain. That he would go
to Windsor to-morrow morning was not to be doubted; but it was thought very probable that he
might plead his age, and decline to undertake the responsibility of forming a Ministry.

"And what then?" said Phineas to his friend Fitzgibbon.

"Why, then there will be a choice out of three. There is the Duke, who is the most incompetent
man in England; there is Monk, who is the most unfit; and there is Gresham, who is the most
unpopular. I can't conceive it possible to find a worse Prime Minister than either of the three;--but
the country affords no other."

"And which would Mildmay name?"

"All of them,--one after the other, so as to make the embarrassment the greater." That was
Mr. Fitzgibbon's description of the crisis; but then it was understood that Mr. Fitzgibbon
was given to romancing.

CHAPTER VIII

The News about Mr. Mildmay and Sir Everard

Fitzgibbon and Phineas started together from Pall Mall for Portman Square,--as both of them
had promised to call on Lady Laura,--but Fitzgibbon turned in at Brooks's as they walked up
St. James's Square, and Phineas went on by himself in a cab. "You should belong here," said
Fitzgibbon as his friend entered the cab, and Phineas immediately began to feel that he would
have done nothing till he could get into Brooks's. It might be very well to begin by talking
politics at the Reform Club. Such talking had procured for him his seat at Loughshane. But
that was done now, and something more than talking was wanted for any further progress. Nothing,
as he told himself, of political import was managed at the Reform Club. No influence from thence
was ever brought to bear upon the adjustment of places under the Government, or upon the arrangement
of cabinets. It might be very well to count votes at the Reform Club; but after the votes had
been counted,--had been counted successfully,--Brooks's was the place, as Phineas believed,
to learn at the earliest moment what would be the exact result of the success. He must get
into Brooks's, if it might be possible for him. Fitzgibbon was not exactly the man to propose
him. Perhaps the Earl of Brentford would do it.

Lady Laura was at home, and with her was sitting--Mr. Kennedy. Phineas had intended to be triumphant
as he entered Lady Laura's room. He was there with the express purpose of triumphing in the
success of their great party, and of singing a pleasant paean in conjunction with Lady Laura.
But his trumpet was put out of tune at once when he saw Mr. Kennedy. He said hardly a word
as he gave his hand to Lady Laura,--and then afterwards to Mr. Kennedy, who chose to greet
him with this show of cordiality.

"I hope you are satisfied, Mr. Finn," said Lady Laura, laughing.

"Oh yes."

"And is that all? I thought to have found your joy quite irrepressible."

"A bottle of soda-water, though it is a very lively thing when opened, won't maintain its vivacity
beyond a certain period, Lady Laura."

"And you have had your gas let off already?"

"Well,--yes; at any rate, the sputtering part of it. Nineteen is very well, but the question
is whether we might not have had twenty-one."

"Mr. Kennedy has just been saying that not a single available vote has been missed on our side.
He has just come from Brooks's, and that seems to be what they say there."

So Mr. Kennedy also was a member of Brooks's! At the Reform Club there certainly had been an
idea that the number might have been swelled to twenty-one; but then, as Phineas began to understand,
nothing was correctly known at the Reform Club. For an accurate appreciation of the political
balance of the day, you must go to Brooks's.

"Mr. Kennedy must of course be right," said Phineas. "I don't belong to Brooks's myself. But
I was only joking, Lady Laura. There is, I suppose, no doubt that Lord de Terrier is out, and
that is everything."

"He has probably tendered his resignation," said Mr. Kennedy.

"That is the same thing," said Phineas, roughly.

"Not exactly," said Lady Laura. "Should there be any difficulty about Mr. Mildmay, he might,
at the Queen's request, make another attempt."

"With a majority of nineteen against him!" said Phineas. "Surely Mr. Mildmay is not the only
man in the country. There is the Duke, and there is Mr. Gresham,--and there is Mr. Monk." Phineas
had at his tongue's end all the lesson that he had been able to learn at the Reform Club.

"I should hardly think the Duke would venture," said Mr. Kennedy.

"Nothing venture, nothing have," said Phineas. "It is all very well to say that the Duke is
incompetent, but I do not know that anything very wonderful is required in the way of genius.
The Duke has held his own in both Houses successfully, and he is both honest and popular. I
quite agree that a Prime Minister at the present day should be commonly honest, and more than
commonly popular."

"So you are all for the Duke, are you?" said Lady Laura, again smiling as she spoke to him.

"Certainly;--if we are deserted by Mr. Mildmay. Don't you think so?"

"I don't find it quite so easy to make up my mind as you do. I am inclined to think that Mr.
Mildmay will form a government; and as long as there is that prospect, I need hardly commit
myself to an opinion as to his probable successor." Then the objectionable Mr. Kennedy took
his leave, and Phineas was left alone with Lady Laura.

"It is glorious;--is it not?" he began, as soon as he found the field to be open for himself
and his own manoeuvring. But he was very young, and had not as yet learned the manner in which
he might best advance his cause with such a woman as Lady Laura Standish. He was telling her
too clearly that he could have no gratification in talking with her unless he could be allowed
to have her all to himself. That might be very well if Lady Laura were in love with him, but
would hardly be the way to reduce her to that condition.

"Mr. Finn," said she, smiling as she spoke, "I am sure that you did not mean it, but you were
uncourteous to my friend Mr. Kennedy."

"Who? I? Was I? Upon my word, I didn't intend to be uncourteous."

"If I had thought you had intended it, of course I could not tell you of it. And now I take
the liberty;--for it is a liberty--"

"Oh no."

"Because I feel so anxious that you should do nothing to mar your chances as a rising man."

"You are only too kind to me,--always."

"I know how clever you are, and how excellent are all your instincts; but I see that you are
a little impetuous. I wonder whether you will be angry if I take upon myself the task of mentor."

"Nothing you could say would make me angry,--though you might make me very unhappy."

"I will not do that if I can help it. A mentor ought to be very old, you know, and I am infinitely
older than you are."

"I should have thought it was the reverse;--indeed, I may say that I know that it is," said
Phineas.

"I am not talking of years. Years have very little to do with the comparative ages of men and
women. A woman at forty is quite old, whereas a man at forty is young." Phineas, remembering
that he had put down Mr. Kennedy's age as forty in his own mind, frowned when he heard this,
and walked about the room in displeasure. "And therefore," continued Lady Laura, "I talk to
you as though I were a kind of grandmother."

"You shall be my great-grandmother if you will only be kind enough to me to say what you really
think."

"You must not then be so impetuous, and you must be a little more careful to be civil to persons
to whom you may not take any particular fancy. Now Mr. Kennedy is a man who may be very useful
to you."

"I do not want Mr. Kennedy to be of use to me."

"That is what I call being impetuous,--being young,--being a boy. Why should not Mr. Kennedy
be of use to you as well as any one else? You do not mean to conquer the world all by yourself."

"No;--but there is something mean to me in the expressed idea that I should make use of any
man,--and more especially of a man whom I don't like."

"And why do you not like him, Mr. Finn?"

"Because he is one of my Dr. Fells."

"You don't like him simply because he does not talk much. That may be a good reason why you
should not make of him an intimate companion,--because you like talkative people; but it should
be no ground for dislike."

Phineas paused for a moment before he answered her, thinking whether or not it would be well
to ask her some question which might produce from her a truth which he would not like to hear.
Then he did ask it. "And do you like him?" he said.

She too paused, but only for a second. "Yes,--I think I may say that I do like him."

"No more than that?"

"Certainly no more than that;--but that I think is a great deal."

"I wonder what you would say if any one asked you whether you liked me," said Phineas, looking
away from her through the window.

"Just the same;--but without the doubt, if the person who questioned me had any right to ask
the question. There are not above one or two who could have such a right."

"And I was wrong, of course, to ask it about Mr. Kennedy," said Phineas, looking out into the
Square.

"I did not say so."

"But I see you think it."

"You see nothing of the kind. I was quite willing to be asked the question by you, and quite
willing to answer it. Mr. Kennedy is a man of great wealth."

"What can that have to do with it?"

"Wait a moment, you impetuous Irish boy, and hear me out." Phineas liked being called an impetuous
Irish boy, and came close to her, sitting where he could look up into her face; and there came
a smile upon his own, and he was very handsome. "I say that he is a man of great wealth," continued
Lady Laura; "and as wealth gives influence, he is of great use,--politically,--to the party
to which he belongs."

"Oh, politically!"

"Am I to suppose you care nothing for politics? To such men, to men who think as you think,
who are to sit on the same benches with yourself, and go into the same lobby and be seen at
the same club, it is your duty to be civil both for your own sake and for that of the cause.
It is for the hermits of society to indulge in personal dislikings,--for men who have never
been active and never mean to be active. I had been telling Mr. Kennedy how much I thought
of you,--as a good Liberal."

"And I came in and spoilt it all."

"Yes, you did. You knocked down my little house, and I must build it all up again."

"Don't trouble yourself, Lady Laura."

"I shall. It will be a great deal of trouble,--a great deal, indeed; but I shall take it. I
mean you to be very intimate with Mr. Kennedy, and to shoot his grouse, and to stalk his deer,
and to help to keep him in progress as a liberal member of Parliament. I am quite prepared
to admit, as a friend, that he would go back without some such help."

"Oh;--I understand."

"I do not believe that you do understand at all, but I must endeavour to make you do so by
degrees. If you are to be my political pupil, you must at any rate be obedient. The next time
you meet Mr. Kennedy, ask him his opinion instead of telling him your own. He has been in Parliament
twelve years, and he was a good deal older than you when he began." At this moment a side door
was opened, and the red-haired, red-bearded man whom Phineas had seen before entered the room.
He hesitated a moment, as though he were going to retreat again, and then began to pull about
the books and toys which lay on one of the distant tables, as though he were in quest of some
article. And he would have retreated had not Lady Laura called to him.

"Oswald," she said, "let me introduce you to Mr. Finn. Mr. Finn, I do not think you have ever
met my brother, Lord Chiltern." Then the two young men bowed, and each of them muttered something.
"Do not be in a hurry, Oswald. You have nothing special to take you away. Here is Mr. Finn
come to tell us who are all the possible new Prime Ministers. He is uncivil enough not to have
named papa."

"My father is out of the question," said Lord Chiltern.

"Of course he is," said Lady Laura, "but I may be allowed my little joke."

"I suppose he will at any rate be in the Cabinet," said Phineas.

"I know nothing whatever about politics," said Lord Chiltern.

"I wish you did," said his sister,--"with all my heart."

"I never did,--and I never shall, for all your wishing. It's the meanest trade going I think,
and I'm sure it's the most dishonest. They talk of legs on the turf, and of course there are
legs; but what are they to the legs in the House? I don't know whether you are in Parliament,
Mr. Finn."

"Yes, I am; but do not mind me."

"I beg your pardon. Of course there are honest men there, and no doubt you are one of them."

"He is indifferent honest,--as yet," said Lady Laura.

"I was speaking of men who go into Parliament to look after Government places," said Lord Chiltern.

"That is just what I'm doing," said Phineas. "Why should not a man serve the Crown? He has
to work very hard for what he earns."

"I don't believe that the most of them work at all. However, I beg your pardon. I didn't mean
you in particular."

"Mr. Finn is such a thorough politician that he will never forgive you," said Lady Laura.

"Yes, I will," said Phineas, "and I'll convert him some day. If he does come into the House,
Lady Laura, I suppose he'll come on the right side?"

"I'll never go into the House, as you call it," said Lord Chiltern. "But, I'll tell you what;
I shall be very happy if you'll dine with me to-morrow at Moroni's. They give you a capital
little dinner at Moroni's, and they've the best Château Yquem in London."

"Do," said Lady Laura, in a whisper. "Oblige me."

Phineas was engaged to dine with one of the Vice-Chancellors on the day named. He had never
before dined at the house of this great law luminary, whose acquaintance he had made through
Mr. Low, and he had thought a great deal of the occasion. Mrs. Freemantle had sent him the
invitation nearly a fortnight ago, and he understood there was to be an elaborate dinner party.
He did not know it for a fact, but he was in hopes of meeting the expiring Lord Chancellor.
He considered it to be his duty never to throw away such a chance. He would in all respects
have preferred Mr. Freemantle's dinner in Eaton Place, dull and heavy though it might probably
be, to the chance of Lord Chiltern's companions at Moroni's. Whatever might be the faults of
our hero, he was not given to what is generally called dissipation by the world at large,--by
which the world means self-indulgence. He cared not a brass farthing for Moroni's Château Yquem,
nor for the wondrously studied repast which he would doubtless find prepared for him at that
celebrated establishment in St. James's Street;--not a farthing as compared with the chance
of meeting so great a man as Lord Moles. And Lord Chiltern's friends might probably be just
the men whom he would not desire to know. But Lady Laura's request overrode everything with
him. She had asked him to oblige her, and of course he would do so. Had he been going to dine
with the incoming Prime Minister, he would have put off his engagement at her request. He was
not quick enough to make an answer without hesitation; but after a moment's pause he said he
should be most happy to dine with Lord Chiltern at Moroni's.

"That's right; 7.30 sharp,--only I can tell you you won't meet any other members." Then the
servant announced more visitors, and Lord Chiltern escaped out of the room before he was seen
by the new comers. These were Mrs. Bonteen and Laurence Fitzgibbon, and then Mr. Bonteen,--and
after them Mr. Ratler, the Whip, who was in a violent hurry, and did not stay there a moment,
and then Barrington Erle and young Lord James Fitz-Howard, the youngest son of the Duke of
St. Bungay. In twenty or thirty minutes there was a gathering of liberal political notabilities
in Lady Laura's drawing-room. There were two great pieces of news by which they were all enthralled.
Mr. Mildmay would not be Prime Minister, and Sir Everard Powell was--dead. Of course nothing
quite positive could be known about Mr. Mildmay. He was to be with the Queen at Windsor on
the morrow at eleven o'clock, and it was improbable that he would tell his mind to any one
before he told it to her Majesty. But there was no doubt that he had engaged "the Duke,"--so
he was called by Lord James,--to go down to Windsor with him, that he might be in readiness
if wanted. "I have learned that at home," said Lord James, who had just heard the news from
his sister, who had heard it from the Duchess. Lord James was delighted with the importance
given to him by his father's coming journey. From this, and from other equally well-known circumstances,
it was surmised that Mr. Mildmay would decline the task proposed to him. This, nevertheless,
was only a surmise,--whereas the fact with reference to Sir Everard was fully substantiated.
The gout had flown to his stomach, and he was dead. "By ---- yes; as dead as a herring," said
Mr. Ratler, who at that moment, however, was not within hearing of either of the ladies present.
And then he rubbed his hands, and looked as though he were delighted. And he was delighted,--not
because his old friend Sir Everard was dead, but by the excitement of the tragedy. "Having
done so good a deed in his last moments," said Laurence Fitzgibbon, "we may take it for granted
that he will go straight to heaven." "I hope there will be no crowner's quest, Ratler," said
Mr. Bonteen; "if there is I don't know how you'll get out of it." "I don't see anything in
it so horrible," said Mr. Ratler. "If a fellow dies leading his regiment we don't think anything
of it. Sir Everard's vote was of more service to his country than anything that a colonel or
a captain can do." But nevertheless I think that Mr. Ratler was somewhat in dread of future
newspaper paragraphs, should it be found necessary to summon a coroner's inquisition to sit
upon poor Sir Everard.

While this was going on Lady Laura took Phineas apart for a moment. "I am so much obliged to
you; I am indeed," she said.

"What nonsense!"

"Never mind whether it's nonsense or not;--but I am. I can't explain it all now, but I do so
want you to know my brother. You may be of the greatest service to him,--of the very greatest.
He is not half so bad as people say he is. In many ways he is very good,--very good. And he
is very clever."

"At any rate I will think and believe no ill of him."

"Just so;--do not believe evil of him,--not more evil than you see. I am so anxious,--so very
anxious to try to put him on his legs, and I find it so difficult to get any connecting link
with him. Papa will not speak with him,--because of money."

"But he is friends with you."

"Yes; I think he loves me. I saw how distasteful it was to you to go to him;--and probably
you were engaged?"

"One can always get off those sort of things if there is an object."

"Yes;--just so. And the object was to oblige me;--was it not?"

"Of course it was. But I must go now. We are to hear Daubeny's statement at four, and I would
not miss it for worlds."

"I wonder whether you would go abroad with my brother in the autumn? But I have no right to
think of such a thing;--have I? At any rate I will not think of it yet. Good-bye,--I shall
see you perhaps on Sunday if you are in town."

Phineas walked down to Westminster with his mind very full of Lady Laura and Lord Chiltern.
What did she mean by her affectionate manner to himself, and what did she mean by the continual
praises which she lavished upon Mr. Kennedy? Of whom was she thinking most, of Mr. Kennedy,
or of him? She had called herself his mentor. Was the description of her feelings towards himself,
as conveyed in that name, of a kind to be gratifying to him? No;--he thought not. But then
might it not be within his power to change the nature of those feelings? She was not in love
with him at present. He could not make any boast to himself on that head. But it might be within
his power to compel her to love him. The female mentor might be softened. That she could not
love Mr. Kennedy, he thought that he was quite sure. There was nothing like love in her manner
to Mr. Kennedy. As to Lord Chiltern, Phineas would do whatever might be in his power. All that
he really knew of Lord Chiltern was that he had gambled and that he had drunk.

CHAPTER IX

The New Government

In the House of Lords that night, and in the House of Commons, the outgoing Ministers made
their explanations. As our business at the present moment is with the Commons, we will confine
ourselves to their chamber, and will do so the more willingly because the upshot of what was
said in the two places was the same. The outgoing ministers were very grave, very self-laudatory,
and very courteous. In regard to courtesy it may be declared that no stranger to the ways of
the place could have understood how such soft words could be spoken by Mr. Daubeny, beaten,
so quickly after the very sharp words which he had uttered when he only expected to be beaten.
He announced to his fellow-commoners that his right honourable friend and colleague Lord de
Terrier had thought it right to retire from the Treasury. Lord de Terrier, in constitutional
obedience to the vote of the Lower House, had resigned, and the Queen had been graciously pleased
to accept Lord de Terrier's resignation. Mr. Daubeny could only inform the House that her Majesty
had signified her pleasure that Mr. Mildmay should wait upon her to-morrow at eleven o'clock.
Mr. Mildmay,--so Mr. Daubeny understood,--would be with her Majesty to-morrow at that hour.
Lord de Terrier had found it to be his duty to recommend her Majesty to send for Mr. Mildmay.
Such was the real import of Mr. Daubeny's speech. That further portion of it in which he explained
with blandest, most beneficent, honey-flowing words that his party would have done everything
that the country could require of any party, had the House allowed it to remain on the Treasury
benches for a month or two,--and explained also that his party would never recriminate, would
never return evil for evil, would in no wise copy the factious opposition of their adversaries;
that his party would now, as it ever had done, carry itself with the meekness of the dove,
and the wisdom of the serpent,--all this, I say, was so generally felt by gentlemen on both
sides of the House to be "leather and prunella" that very little attention was paid to it.
The great point was that Lord de Terrier had resigned, and that Mr. Mildmay had been summoned
to Windsor.

The Queen had sent for Mr. Mildmay in compliance with advice given to her by Lord de Terrier.
And yet Lord de Terrier and his first lieutenant had used all the most practised efforts of
their eloquence for the last three days in endeavouring to make their countrymen believe that
no more unfitting Minister than Mr. Mildmay ever attempted to hold the reins of office! Nothing
had been too bad for them to say of Mr. Mildmay,--and yet, in the very first moment in which
they found themselves unable to carry on the Government themselves, they advised the Queen
to send for that most incompetent and baneful statesman! We who are conversant with our own
methods of politics, see nothing odd in this, because we are used to it; but surely in the
eyes of strangers our practice must be very singular. There is nothing like it in any other
country,--nothing as yet. Nowhere else is there the same good-humoured, affectionate, prize-fighting
ferocity in politics. The leaders of our two great parties are to each other exactly as are
the two champions of the ring who knock each other about for the belt and for five hundred
pounds a side once in every two years. How they fly at each other, striking as though each
blow should carry death if it were but possible! And yet there is no one whom the Birmingham
Bantam respects so highly as he does Bill Burns the Brighton Bully, or with whom he has so
much delight in discussing the merits of a pot of half-and-half. And so it was with Mr. Daubeny
and Mr. Mildmay. In private life Mr. Daubeny almost adulated his elder rival,--and Mr. Mildmay
never omitted an opportunity of taking Mr. Daubeny warmly by the hand. It is not so in the
United States. There the same political enmity exists, but the political enmity produces private
hatred. The leaders of parties there really mean what they say when they abuse each other,
and are in earnest when they talk as though they were about to tear each other limb from limb.
I doubt whether Mr. Daubeny would have injured a hair of Mr. Mildmay's venerable head, even
for an assurance of six continued months in office.

When Mr. Daubeny had completed his statement, Mr. Mildmay simply told the House that he had
received and would obey her Majesty's commands. The House would of course understand that he
by no means meant to aver that the Queen would even commission him to form a Ministry. But
if he took no such command from her Majesty it would become his duty to recommend her Majesty
to impose the task upon some other person. Then everything was said that had to be said, and
members returned to their clubs. A certain damp was thrown over the joy of some excitable Liberals
by tidings which reached the House during Mr. Daubeny's speech. Sir Everard Powell was no more
dead than was Mr. Daubeny himself. Now it is very unpleasant to find that your news is untrue,
when you have been at great pains to disseminate it. "Oh, but he is dead," said Mr. Ratler.
"Lady Powell assured me half an hour ago," said Mr. Ratler's opponent, "that he was at that
moment a great deal better than he had been for the last three months. The journey down to
the House did him a world of good." "Then we'll have him down for every division," said Mr. Ratler.

The political portion of London was in a ferment for the next five days. On the Sunday morning
it was known that Mr. Mildmay had declined to put himself at the head of a liberal Government.
He and the Duke of St. Bungay, and Mr. Plantagenet Palliser, had been in conference so often,
and so long, that it may almost be said they lived together in conference. Then Mr. Gresham
had been with Mr. Mildmay,--and Mr. Monk also. At the clubs it was said by many that Mr. Monk
had been with Mr. Mildmay; but it was also said very vehemently by others that no such interview
had taken place. Mr. Monk was a Radical, much admired by the people, sitting in Parliament
for that most Radical of all constituencies, the Pottery Hamlets, who had never as yet been
in power. It was the great question of the day whether Mr. Mildmay would or would not ask Mr.
Monk to join him; and it was said by those who habitually think at every period of change that
the time has now come in which the difficulties to forming a government will at last be found
to be insuperable, that Mr. Mildmay could not succeed either with Mr. Monk or without him.
There were at the present moment two sections of these gentlemen,--the section which declared
that Mr. Mildmay had sent for Mr. Monk, and the section which declared that he had not. But
there were others, who perhaps knew better what they were saying, by whom it was asserted that
the whole difficulty lay with Mr. Gresham. Mr. Gresham was willing to serve with Mr. Mildmay,--with
certain stipulations as to the special seat in the Cabinet which he himself was to occupy,
and as to the introduction of certain friends of his own; but,--so said these gentlemen who
were supposed really to understand the matter,--Mr. Gresham was not willing to serve with the
Duke and with Mr. Palliser. Now, everybody who knew anything knew that the Duke and Mr. Palliser
were indispensable to Mr. Mildmay. And a liberal Government, with Mr. Gresham in the opposition,
could not live half through a session! All Sunday and Monday these things were discussed; and
on the Monday Lord de Terrier absolutely stated to the Upper House that he had received her
Majesty's commands to form another government. Mr. Daubeny, in half a dozen most modest words,--in
words hardly audible, and most unlike himself,--made his statement in the Lower House to the
same effect. Then Mr. Ratler, and Mr. Bonteen, and Mr. Barrington Erle, and Mr. Laurence Fitzgibbon
aroused themselves and swore that such things could not be. Should the prey which they had
won for themselves, the spoil of their bows and arrows, be snatched from out of their very
mouths by treachery? Lord de Terrier and Mr. Daubeny could not venture even to make another
attempt unless they did so in combination with Mr. Gresham. Such a combination, said Mr. Barrington
Erle, would be disgraceful to both parties, but would prove Mr. Gresham to be as false as Satan
himself. Early on the Tuesday morning, when it was known that Mr. Gresham had been at Lord
de Terrier's house, Barrington Erle was free to confess that he had always been afraid of Mr.
Gresham. "I have felt for years," said he, "that if anybody could break up the party it would
be Mr. Gresham."

On that Tuesday morning Mr. Gresham certainly was with Lord de Terrier, but nothing came of
it. Mr. Gresham was either not enough like Satan for the occasion, or else he was too closely
like him. Lord de Terrier did not bid high enough, or else Mr. Gresham did not like biddings
from that quarter. Nothing then came from this attempt, and on the Tuesday afternoon the Queen
again sent for Mr. Mildmay. On the Wednesday morning the gentlemen who thought that the insuperable
difficulties had at length arrived, began to wear their longest faces, and to be triumphant
with melancholy forebodings. Now at last there was a dead lock. Nobody could form a government.
It was asserted that Mr. Mildmay had fallen at her Majesty's feet dissolved in tears, and had
implored to be relieved from further responsibility. It was well known to many at the clubs
that the Queen had on that morning telegraphed to Germany for advice. There were men so gloomy
as to declare that the Queen must throw herself into the arms of Mr. Monk, unless Mr. Mildmay
would consent to rise from his knees and once more buckle on his ancient armour. "Even that
would be better than Gresham," said Barrington Erle, in his anger. "I'll tell you what it is,"
said Ratler, "we shall have Gresham and Monk together, and you and I shall have to do their
biddings." Mr. Barrington Erle's reply to that suggestion I may not dare to insert in these pages.

On the Wednesday night, however, it was known that everything had been arranged, and before
the Houses met on the Thursday every place had been bestowed, either in reality or in imagination.
The Times, in its second edition on the Thursday, gave a list of the Cabinet, in which four
places out of fourteen were rightly filled. On the Friday it named ten places aright, and indicated
the law officers, with only one mistake in reference to Ireland; and on the Saturday it gave
a list of the Under Secretaries of State, and Secretaries and Vice-Presidents generally, with
wonderful correctness as to the individuals, though the offices were a little jumbled. The
Government was at last formed in a manner which everybody had seen to be the only possible
way in which a government could be formed. Nobody was surprised, and the week's work was regarded
as though the regular routine of government making had simply been followed. Mr. Mildmay was
Prime Minister; Mr. Gresham was at the Foreign Office; Mr. Monk was at the Board of Trade;
the Duke was President of the Council; the Earl of Brentford was Privy Seal; and Mr. Palliser
was Chancellor of the Exchequer. Barrington Erle made a step up in the world, and went to the
Admiralty as Secretary; Mr. Bonteen was sent again to the Admiralty; and Laurence Fitzgibbon
became a junior Lord of the Treasury. Mr. Ratler was, of course, installed as Patronage Secretary
to the same Board. Mr. Ratler was perhaps the only man in the party as to whose destination
there could not possibly be a doubt. Mr. Ratler had really qualified himself for a position
in such a way as to make all men feel that he would, as a matter of course, be called upon
to fill it. I do not know whether as much could be said on behalf of any other man in the new
Government.

During all this excitement, and through all these movements, Phineas Finn felt himself to be
left more and more out in the cold. He had not been such a fool as to suppose that any office
would be offered to him. He had never hinted at such a thing to his one dearly intimate friend,
Lady Laura. He had not hitherto opened his mouth in Parliament. Indeed, when the new Government
was formed he had not been sitting for above a fortnight. Of course nothing could be done for
him as yet. But, nevertheless, he felt himself to be out in the cold. The very men who had
discussed with him the question of the division,--who had discussed it with him because his
vote was then as good as that of any other member,--did not care to talk to him about the distribution
of places. He, at any rate, could not be one of them. He, at any rate, could not be a rival.
He could neither mar nor assist. He could not be either a successful or a disappointed sympathiser,--because
he could not himself be a candidate. The affair which perhaps disgusted him more than anything
else was the offer of an office,--not in the Cabinet, indeed, but one supposed to confer high
dignity,--to Mr. Kennedy. Mr. Kennedy refused the offer, and this somewhat lessened Finn's
disgust, but the offer itself made him unhappy.

"I suppose it was made simply because of his money," he said to Fitzgibbon.

"I don't believe that," said Fitzgibbon. "People seem to think that he has got a head on his
shoulders, though he has got no tongue in it. I wonder at his refusing it because of the Right
Honourable."

"I am so glad that Mr. Kennedy refused," said Lady Laura to him.

"And why? He would have been the Right Hon. Robert Kennedy for ever and ever." Phineas when
he said this did not as yet know exactly how it would have come to pass that such honour,--the
honour of the enduring prefix to his name,--would have come in the way of Mr. Kennedy had Mr.
Kennedy accepted the office in question; but he was very quick to learn all these things, and,
in the meantime, he rarely made any mistake about them.

"What would that have been to him,--with his wealth?" said Lady Laura. "He has a position of
his own and need not care for such things. There are men who should not attempt what is called
independence in Parliament. By doing so they simply decline to make themselves useful. But
there are a few whose special walk in life it is to be independent, and, as it were, unmoved
by parties."

"Great Akinetoses! You know Orion," said Phineas.

"Mr. Kennedy is not an Akinetos," said Lady Laura.

"He holds a very proud position," said Phineas, ironically.

"A very proud position indeed," said Lady Laura, in sober earnest.

The dinner at Moroni's had been eaten, and Phineas had given an account of the entertainment
to Lord Chiltern's sister. There had been only two other guests, and both of them had been
men on the turf. "I was the first there," said Phineas, "and he surprised me ever so much by
telling me that you had spoken to him of me before."

"Yes; I did so. I wish him to know you. I want him to know some men who think of something
besides horses. He is very well educated, you know, and would certainly have taken honours
if he had not quarrelled with the people at Christ Church."

"Did he take a degree?"

"No;--they sent him down. It is best always to have the truth among friends. Of course you
will hear it some day. They expelled him because he was drunk." Then Lady Laura burst out into
tears, and Phineas sat near her, and consoled her, and swore that if in any way he could befriend
her brother he would do so.

Mr. Fitzgibbon at this time claimed a promise which he said that Phineas had made to him,--that
Phineas would go over with him to Mayo to assist at his re-election. And Phineas did go. The
whole affair occupied but a week, and was chiefly memorable as being the means of cementing
the friendship which existed between the two Irish members.

"A thousand a year!" said Laurence Fitzgibbon, speaking of the salary of his office. "It isn't
much; is it? And every fellow to whom I owe a shilling will be down upon me. If I had studied
my own comfort, I should have done the same as Kennedy."

CHAPTER X

Violet Effingham

It was now the middle of May, and a month had elapsed since the terrible difficulty about the
Queen's Government had been solved. A month had elapsed, and things had shaken themselves into
their places with more of ease and apparent fitness than men had given them credit for possessing.
Mr. Mildmay, Mr. Gresham, and Mr. Monk were the best friends in the world, swearing by each
other in their own house, and supported in the other by as gallant a phalanx of Whig peers
as ever were got together to fight against the instincts of their own order in compliance with
the instincts of those below them. Lady Laura's father was in the Cabinet, to Lady Laura's
infinite delight. It was her ambition to be brought as near to political action as was possible
for a woman without surrendering any of the privileges of feminine inaction. That women should
even wish to have votes at parliamentary elections was to her abominable, and the cause of
the Rights of Women generally was odious to her; but, nevertheless, for herself, she delighted
in hoping that she too might be useful,--in thinking that she too was perhaps, in some degree,
politically powerful; and she had received considerable increase to such hopes when her father
accepted the Privy Seal. The Earl himself was not an ambitious man, and, but for his daughter,
would have severed himself altogether from political life before this time. He was an unhappy
man;--being an obstinate man, and having in his obstinacy quarrelled with his only son. In
his unhappiness he would have kept himself alone, living in the country, brooding over his
wretchedness, were it not for his daughter. On her behalf, and in obedience to her requirements,
he came yearly up to London, and, perhaps in compliance with her persuasion, had taken some
part in the debates of the House of Lords. It is easy for a peer to be a statesman, if the
trouble of the life be not too much for him. Lord Brentford was now a statesman, if a seat
in the Cabinet be proof of statesmanship.

At this time, in May, there was staying with Lady Laura in Portman Square a very dear friend
of hers, by name Violet Effingham. Violet Effingham was an orphan, an heiress, and a beauty;
with a terrible aunt, one Lady Baldock, who was supposed to be the dragon who had Violet, as
a captive maiden, in charge. But as Miss Effingham was of age, and was mistress of her own
fortune, Lady Baldock was, in truth, not omnipotent as a dragon should be. The dragon, at any
rate, was not now staying in Portman Square, and the captivity of the maiden was therefore
not severe at the present moment. Violet Effingham was very pretty, but could hardly be said
to be beautiful. She was small, with light crispy hair, which seemed to be ever on the flutter
round her brows, and which yet was never a hair astray. She had sweet, soft grey eyes, which
never looked at you long, hardly for a moment,--but which yet, in that half moment, nearly
killed you by the power of their sweetness. Her cheek was the softest thing in nature, and
the colour of it, when its colour was fixed enough to be told, was a shade of pink so faint
and creamy that you would hardly dare to call it by its name. Her mouth was perfect, not small
enough to give that expression of silliness which is so common, but almost divine, with the
temptation of its full, rich, ruby lips. Her teeth, which she but seldom showed, were very
even and very white, and there rested on her chin the dearest dimple that ever acted as a loadstar
to mens's eyes. The fault of her face, if it had a fault, was in her nose,--which was a little
too sharp, and perhaps too small. A woman who wanted to depreciate Violet Effingham had once
called her a pug-nosed puppet; but I, as her chronicler, deny that she was pug-nosed,--and
all the world who knew her soon came to understand that she was no puppet. In figure she was
small, but not so small as she looked to be. Her feet and hands were delicately fine, and there
was a softness about her whole person, an apparent compressibility, which seemed to indicate
that she might go into very small compass. Into what compass and how compressed, there were
very many men who held very different opinions. Violet Effingham was certainly no puppet. She
was great at dancing,--as perhaps might be a puppet,--but she was great also at archery, great
at skating,--and great, too, at hunting. With reference to that last accomplishment, she and
Lady Baldock had had more than one terrible tussle, not always with advantage to the dragon.
"My dear aunt," she had said once during the last winter, "I am going to the meet with George,"--George
was her cousin, Lord Baldock, and was the dragon's son,--"and there, let there be an end of
it." "And you will promise me that you will not go further," said the dragon. "I will promise
nothing to-day to any man or to any woman," said Violet. What was to be said to a young lady
who spoke in this way, and who had become of age only a fortnight since? She rode that day
the famous run from Bagnall's Gorse to Foulsham Common, and was in at the death.

Violet Effingham was now sitting in conference with her friend Lady Laura, and they were discussing
matters of high import,--of very high import, indeed,--to the interests of both of them. "I
do not ask you to accept him," said Lady Laura.

"That is lucky," said the other, "as he has never asked me."

"He has done much the same. You know that he loves you."

"I know,--or fancy that I know,--that so many men love me! But, after all, what sort of love
is it? It is just as when you and I, when we see something nice in a shop, call it a dear duck
of a thing, and tell somebody to go and buy it, let the price be ever so extravagant. I know
my own position, Laura. I'm a dear duck of a thing."

"You are a very dear thing to Oswald."

"But you, Laura, will some day inspire a grand passion,--or I daresay have already, for you
are a great deal too close to tell;--and then there will be cutting of throats, and a mighty
hubbub, and a real tragedy. I shall never go beyond genteel comedy,--unless I run away with
somebody beneath me, or do something awfully improper."

"Don't do that, dear."

"I should like to, because of my aunt. I should indeed. If it were possible, without compromising
myself, I should like her to be told some morning that I had gone off with the curate."

"How can you be so wicked, Violet!"

"It would serve her right, and her countenance would be so awfully comic. Mind, if it is ever
to come off, I must be there to see it. I know what she would say as well as possible. She
would turn to poor Gussy. 'Augusta,' she would say, 'I always expected it. I always did.' Then
I should come out and curtsey to her, and say so prettily, 'Dear aunt, it was only our little
joke.' That's my line. But for you,--you, if you planned it, would go off to-morrow with Lucifer
himself if you liked him."

"But failing Lucifer, I shall probably be very humdrum."

"You don't mean that there is anything settled, Laura?"

"There is nothing settled,--or any beginning of anything that ever can be settled, But I am
not talking about myself. He has told me that if you will accept him, he will do anything that
you and I may ask him."

"Yes;--he will promise."

"Did you ever know him to break his word?"

"I know nothing about him, my dear. How should I?"

"Do not pretend to be ignorant and meek, Violet. You do know him,--much better than most girls
know the men they marry. You have known him, more or less intimately, all your life."

"But am I bound to marry him because of that accident?"

"No; you are not bound to marry him,--unless you love him."

"I do not love him," said Violet, with slow, emphatic words, and a little forward motion of
her face, as though she were specially eager to convince her friend that she was quite in earnest
in what she said.

"I fancy, Violet, that you are nearer to loving him than any other man."

"I am not at all near to loving any man. I doubt whether I ever shall be. It does not seem
to me to be possible to myself to be what girls call in love. I can like a man. I do like,
perhaps, half a dozen. I like them so much that if I go to a house or to a party it is quite
a matter of importance to me whether this man or that will or will not be there. And then I
suppose I flirt with them. At least Augusta tells me that my aunt says that I do. But as for
caring about any one of them in the way of loving him,--wanting to marry him, and have him
all to myself, and that sort of thing,--I don't know what it means."

"But you intend to be married some day," said Lady Laura.

"Certainly I do. And I don't intend to wait very much longer. I am heartily tired of Lady Baldock,
and though I can generally escape among my friends, that is not sufficient. I am beginning
to think that it would be pleasant to have a house of my own. A girl becomes such a Bohemian
when she is always going about, and doesn't quite know where any of her things are."

Then there was a silence between them for a few minutes. Violet Effingham was doubled up in
a corner of a sofa, with her feet tucked under her, and her face reclining upon one of her
shoulders. And as she talked she was playing with a little toy which was constructed to take
various shapes as it was flung this way or that. A bystander looking at her would have thought
that the toy was much more to her than the conversation. Lady Laura was sitting upright, in
a common chair, at a table not far from her companion, and was manifestly devoting herself
altogether to the subject that was being discussed between them. She had taken no lounging,
easy attitude, she had found no employment for her fingers, and she looked steadily at Violet
as she talked,--whereas Violet was looking only at the little manikin which she tossed. And
now Laura got up and came to the sofa, and sat close to her friend. Violet, though she somewhat
moved one foot, so as to seem to make room for the other, still went on with her play.

"If you do marry, Violet, you must choose some one man out of the lot."

"That's quite true, my dear, I certainly can't marry them all."

"And how do you mean to make the choice?"

"I don't know. I suppose I shall toss up."

"I wish you would be in earnest with me."

"Well;--I will be in earnest. I shall take the first that comes after I have quite made up
my mind. You'll think it very horrible, but that is really what I shall do. After all, a husband
is very much like a house or a horse. You don't take your house because it's the best house
in the world, but because just then you want a house. You go and see a house, and if it's very
nasty you don't take it. But if you think it will suit pretty well, and if you are tired of
looking about for houses, you do take it. That's the way one buys one's horses,--and one's
husbands."

"And you have not made up your mind yet?"

"Not quite. Lady Baldock was a little more decent than usual just before I left Baddingham.
When I told her that I meant to have a pair of ponies, she merely threw up her hands and grunted.
She didn't gnash her teeth, and curse and swear, and declare to me that I was a child of perdition."

"What do you mean by cursing and swearing?"

"She told me once that if I bought a certain little dog, it would lead to my being everlastingly--you
know what. She isn't so squeamish as I am, and said it out."

"What did you do?"

"I bought the little dog, and it bit my aunt's heel. I was very sorry then, and gave the creature
to Mary Rivers. He was such a beauty! I hope the perdition has gone with him, for I don't like
Mary Rivers at all. I had to give the poor beasty to somebody, and Mary Rivers happened to
be there. I told her that Puck was connected with Apollyon, but she didn't mind that. Puck
was worth twenty guineas, and I daresay she has sold him."

"Oswald may have an equal chance then among the other favourites?" said Lady Laura, after another
pause.

"There are no favourites, and I will not say that any man may have a chance. Why do you press
me about your brother in this way?"

"Because I am so anxious. Because it would save him. Because you are the only woman for whom
he has ever cared, and because he loves you with all his heart; and because his father would
be reconciled to him to-morrow if he heard that you and he were engaged."

"Laura, my dear--"

"Well."

"You won't be angry if I speak out?"

"Certainly not. After what I have said, you have a right to speak out."

"It seems to me that all your reasons are reasons why he should marry me;--not reasons why
I should marry him."

"Is not his love for you a reason?"

"No," said Violet, pausing,--and speaking the word in the lowest possible whisper. "If he did
not love me, that, if known to me, should be a reason why I should not marry him. Ten men may
love me,--I don't say that any man does--"

"He does."

"But I can't marry all the ten. And as for that business of saving him--"

"You know what I mean!"

"I don't know that I have any special mission for saving young men. I sometimes think that
I shall have quite enough to do to save myself. It is strange what a propensity I feel for
the wrong side of the post."

"I feel the strongest assurance that you will always keep on the right side."

"Thank you, my dear. I mean to try, but I'm quite sure that the jockey who takes me in hand
ought to be very steady himself. Now, Lord Chiltern--"

"Well,--out with it. What have you to say?"

"He does not bear the best reputation in this world as a steady man. Is he altogether the sort
of man that mammas of the best kind are seeking for their daughters? I like a roué myself;--and
a prig who sits all night in the House, and talks about nothing but church-rates and suffrage,
is to me intolerable. I prefer men who are improper, and all that sort of thing. If I were
a man myself I should go in for everything I ought to leave alone. I know I should. But you
see,--I'm not a man, and I must take care of myself. The wrong side of a post for a woman is
so very much the wrong side. I like a fast man, but I know that I must not dare to marry the
sort of man that I like."

"To be one of us, then,--the very first among us;--would that be the wrong side?"

"You mean that to be Lady Chiltern in the present tense, and Lady Brentford in the future,
would be promotion for Violet Effingham in the past?"

"How hard you are, Violet!"

"Fancy,--that it should come to this,--that you should call me hard, Laura. I should like to
be your sister. I should like well enough to be your father's daughter. I should like well
enough to be Chiltern's friend. I am his friend. Nothing that any one has ever said of him
has estranged me from him. I have fought for him till I have been black in the face. Yes, I
have,--with my aunt. But I am afraid to be his wife. The risk would be so great. Suppose that
I did not save him, but that he brought me to shipwreck instead?"

"That could not be!"

"Could it not? I think it might be so very well. When I was a child they used to be always
telling me to mind myself. It seems to me that a child and a man need not mind themselves.
Let them do what they may, they can be set right again. Let them fall as they will, you can
put them on their feet. But a woman has to mind herself;--and very hard work it is when she
has a dragon of her own driving her ever the wrong way."

"I want to take you from the dragon."

"Yes;--and to hand me over to a griffin."

"The truth is, Violet, that you do not know Oswald. He is not a griffin."

"I did not mean to be uncomplimentary. Take any of the dangerous wild beasts you please. I
merely intend to point out that he is a dangerous wild beast. I daresay he is noble-minded,
and I will call him a lion if you like it better. But even with a lion there is risk."

"Of course there will be risk. There is risk with every man,--unless you will be contented
with the prig you described. Of course there would be risk with my brother. He has been a gambler."

"They say he is one still."

"He has given it up in part, and would entirely at your instance."

"And they say other things of him, Laura."

"It is true. He has had paroxysms of evil life which have well-nigh ruined him."

"And these paroxysms are so dangerous! Is he not in debt?"

"He is,--but not deeply. Every shilling that he owes would be paid;--every shilling. Mind,
I know all his circumstances, and I give you my word that every shilling should be paid. He
has never lied,--and he has told me everything. His father could not leave an acre away from
him if he would, and would not if he could."

"I did not ask as fearing that. I spoke only of a dangerous habit. A paroxysm of spending money
is apt to make one so uncomfortable. And then--"

"Well."

"I don't know why I should make a catalogue of your brother's weaknesses."

"You mean to say that he drinks too much?"

"I do not say so. People say so. The dragon says so. And as I always find her sayings to be
untrue, I suppose this is like the rest of them."

"It is untrue if it be said of him as a habit."

"It is another paroxysm,--just now and then."

"Do not laugh at me, Violet, when I am taking his part, or I shall be offended."

"But you see, if I am to be his wife, it is--rather important."

"Still you need not ridicule me."

"Dear Laura, you know I do not ridicule you. You know I love you for what you are doing. Would
not I do the same, and fight for him down to my nails if I had a brother?"

"And therefore I want you to be Oswald's wife;--because I know that you would fight for him.
It is not true that he is a--drunkard. Look at his hand, which is as steady as yours. Look
at his eye. Is there a sign of it? He has been drunk, once or twice, perhaps,--and has done
fearful things."

"It might be that he would do fearful things to me."

"You never knew a man with a softer heart or with a finer spirit. I believe as I sit here that
if he were married to-morrow, his vices would fall from him like old clothes."

"You will admit, Laura, that there will be some risk for the wife."

"Of course there will be a risk. Is there not always a risk?"

"The men in the city would call this double-dangerous, I think," said Violet. Then the door
was opened, and the man of whom they were speaking entered the room.

CHAPTER XI

Lord Chiltern

The reader has been told that Lord Chiltern was a red man, and that peculiarity of his personal
appearance was certainly the first to strike a stranger. It imparted a certain look of ferocity
to him, which was apt to make men afraid of him at first sight. Women are not actuated in the
same way, and are accustomed to look deeper into men at the first sight than other men will
trouble themselves to do. His beard was red, and was clipped, so as to have none of the softness
of waving hair. The hair on his head also was kept short, and was very red,--and the colour
of his face was red. Nevertheless he was a handsome man, with well-cut features, not tall,
but very strongly built, and with a certain curl in the corner of his eyelids which gave to
him a look of resolution,--which perhaps he did not possess. He was known to be a clever man,
and when very young had had the reputation of being a scholar. When he was three-and-twenty
grey-haired votaries of the turf declared that he would make his fortune on the race-course,--so
clear-headed was he as to odds, so excellent a judge of a horse's performances, and so gifted
with a memory of events. When he was five-and-twenty he had lost every shilling of a fortune
of his own, had squeezed from his father more than his father ever chose to name in speaking
of his affairs to any one, and was known to be in debt. But he had sacrificed himself on one
or two memorable occasions in conformity with turf laws of honour, and men said of him, either
that he was very honest or very chivalric,--in accordance with the special views on the subject
of the man who was speaking. It was reported now that he no longer owned horses on the turf;--but
this was doubted by some who could name the animals which they said that he owned, and which
he ran in the name of Mr. Macnab,--said some; of Mr. Pardoe,--said others; of Mr. Chickerwick,--said
a third set of informants. The fact was that Lord Chiltern at this moment had no interest of
his own in any horse upon the turf.

But all the world knew that he drank. He had taken by the throat a proctor's bull-dog when
he had been drunk at Oxford, had nearly strangled the man, and had been expelled. He had fallen
through his violence into some terrible misfortune at Paris, had been brought before a public
judge, and his name and his infamy had been made notorious in every newspaper in the two capitals.
After that he had fought a ruffian at Newmarket, and had really killed him with his fists.
In reference to this latter affray it had been proved that the attack had been made on him,
that he had not been to blame, and that he had not been drunk. After a prolonged investigation
he had come forth from that affair without disgrace. He would have done so, at least, if he
had not been heretofore disgraced. But we all know how the man well spoken of may steal a horse,
while he who is of evil repute may not look over a hedge. It was asserted widely by many who
were supposed to know all about everything that Lord Chiltern was in a fit of delirium tremens
when he killed the ruffian at Newmarket. The worst of that latter affair was that it produced
the total estrangement which now existed between Lord Brentford and his son. Lord Brentford
would not believe that his son was in that matter more sinned against than sinning. "Such things
do not happen to other men's sons," he said, when Lady Laura pleaded for her brother. Lady
Laura could not induce her father to see his son, but so far prevailed that no sentence of
banishment was pronounced against Lord Chiltern. There was nothing to prevent the son sitting
at his father's table if he so pleased. He never did so please,--but nevertheless he continued
to live in the house in Portman Square; and when he met the Earl, in the hall, perhaps, or
on the staircase, would simply bow to him. Then the Earl would bow again, and shuffle on,--and
look very wretched, as no doubt he was. A grown-up son must be the greatest comfort a man can
have,--if he be his father's best friend; but otherwise he can hardly be a comfort. As it was
in this house, the son was a constant thorn in his father's side.

"What does he do when we leave London?" Lord Brentford once said to his daughter.

"He stays here, papa."

"But he hunts still?"

"Yes, he hunts,--and he has a room somewhere at an inn,--down in Northamptonshire. But he is
mostly in London. They have trains on purpose."

"What a life for my son!" said the Earl. "What a life! Of course no decent person will let
him into his house." Lady Laura did not know what to say to this, for in truth Lord Chiltern
was not fond of staying at the houses of persons whom the Earl would have called decent.

General Effingham, the father of Violet, and Lord Brentford had been the closest and dearest
of friends. They had been young men in the same regiment, and through life each had confided
in the other. When the General's only son, then a youth of seventeen, was killed in one of
our grand New Zealand wars, the bereaved father and the Earl had been together for a month
in their sorrow. At that time Lord Chiltern's career had still been open to hope,--and the
one man had contrasted his lot with the other. General Effingham lived long enough to hear
the Earl declare that his lot was the happier of the two. Now the General was dead, and Violet,
the daughter of a second wife, was all that was left of the Effinghams. This second wife had
been a Miss Plummer, a lady from the city with much money, whose sister had married Lord Baldock.
Violet in this way had fallen to the care of the Baldock people, and not into the hands of
her father's friends. But, as the reader will have surmised, she had ideas of her own of emancipating
herself from Baldock thraldom.

Twice before that last terrible affair at Newmarket, before the quarrel between the father
and the son had been complete, Lord Brentford had said a word to his daughter,--merely a word,--of
his son in connection with Miss Effingham.

"If he thinks of it I shall be glad to see him on the subject. You may tell him so." That had
been the first word. He had just then resolved that the affair in Paris should be regarded
as condoned,--as among the things to be forgotten. "She is too good for him; but if he asks
her let him tell her everything." That had been the second word, and had been spoken immediately
subsequent to a payment of twelve thousand pounds made by the Earl towards the settlement of
certain Doncaster accounts. Lady Laura in negotiating for the money had been very eloquent
in describing some honest,--or shall we say chivalric,--sacrifice which had brought her brother
into this special difficulty. Since that the Earl had declined to interest himself in his son's
matrimonial affairs; and when Lady Laura had once again mentioned the matter, declaring her
belief that it would be the means of saving her brother Oswald, the Earl had desired her to
be silent. "Would you wish to destroy the poor child?" he had said. Nevertheless Lady Laura
felt sure that if she were to go to her father with a positive statement that Oswald and Violet
were engaged, he would relent and would accept Violet as his daughter. As for the payment of
Lord Chiltern's present debts;--she had a little scheme of her own about that.

Miss Effingham, who had been already two days in Portman Square, had not as yet seen Lord Chiltern.
She knew that he lived in the house, that is, that he slept there, and probably eat his breakfast
in some apartment of his own;--but she knew also that the habits of the house would not by
any means make it necessary that they should meet. Laura and her brother probably saw each
other daily,--but they never went into society together, and did not know the same sets of
people. When she had announced to Lady Baldock her intention of spending the first fortnight
of her London season with her friend Lady Laura, Lady Baldock had as a matter of course--"jumped
upon her," as Miss Effingham would herself call it.

"You are going to the house of the worst reprobate in all England," said Lady Baldock.

"What;--dear old Lord Brentford, whom papa loved so well!"

"I mean Lord Chiltern, who, only last year,--murdered a man!"

"That is not true, aunt."

"There is worse than that,--much worse. He is always--tipsy, and always gambling, and always--
But it is quite unfit that I should speak a word more to you about such a man as Lord Chiltern.
His name ought never to be mentioned."

"Then why did you mention it, aunt?"

Lady Baldock's process of jumping upon her niece,--in which I think the aunt had generally
the worst of the exercise,--went on for some time, but Violet of course carried her point.

"If she marries him there will be an end of everything," said Lady Baldock to her daughter Augusta.

"She has more sense than that, mamma," said Augusta.

"I don't think she has any sense at all," said Lady Baldock;--"not in the least. I do wish
my poor sister had lived;--I do indeed."

Lord Chiltern was now in the room with Violet,--immediately upon that conversation between
Violet and his sister as to the expediency of Violet becoming his wife. Indeed his entrance
had interrupted the conversation before it was over. "I am so glad to see you, Miss Effingham,"
he said. "I came in thinking that I might find you."

"Here I am, as large as life," she said, getting up from her corner on the sofa and giving
him her hand. "Laura and I have been discussing the affairs of the nation for the last two
days, and have nearly brought our discussion to an end." She could not help looking, first
at his eye and then at his hand, not as wanting evidence to the truth of the statement which
his sister had made, but because the idea of a drunkard's eye and a drunkard's hand had been
brought before her mind. Lord Chiltern's hand was like the hand of any other man, but there
was something in his eye that almost frightened her. It looked as though he would not hesitate
to wring his wife's neck round, if ever he should be brought to threaten to do so. And then
his eye, like the rest of him, was red. No;--she did not think that she could ever bring herself
to marry him. Why take a venture that was double-dangerous, when there were so many ventures
open to her, apparently with very little of danger attached to them? "If it should ever be
said that I loved him, I would do it all the same," she said to herself.

"If I did not come and see you here, I suppose that I should never see you," said he, seating
himself. "I do not often go to parties, and when I do you are not likely to be there."

"We might make our little arrangements for meeting," said she, laughing. "My aunt, Lady Baldock,
is going to have an evening next week."

"The servants would be ordered to put me out of the house."

"Oh no. You can tell her that I invited you."

"I don't think that Oswald and Lady Baldock are great friends," said Lady Laura.

"Or he might come and take you and me to the Zoo on Sunday. That's the proper sort of thing
for a brother and a friend to do."

"I hate that place in the Regent's Park," said Lord Chiltern.

"When were you there last?" demanded Miss Effingham.

"When I came home once from Eton. But I won't go again till I can come home from Eton again."
Then he altered his tone as he continued to speak. "People would look at me as if I were the
wildest beast in the whole collection."

"Then," said Violet, "if you won't go to Lady Baldock's or to the Zoo, we must confine ourselves
to Laura's drawing-room;--unless, indeed, you like to take me to the top of the Monument."

"I'll take you to the top of the Monument with pleasure."

"What do you say, Laura?"

"I say that you are a foolish girl," said Lady Laura, "and that I will have nothing to do with
such a scheme."

"Then there is nothing for it but that you should come here; and as you live in the house,
and as I am sure to be here every morning, and as you have no possible occupation for your
time, and as we have nothing particular to do with ours,--I daresay I shan't see you again
before I go to my aunt's in Berkeley Square."

"Very likely not," he said.

"And why not, Oswald?" asked his sister.

He passed his hand over his face before he answered her. "Because she and I run in different
grooves now, and are not such meet playfellows as we used to be once. Do you remember my taking
you away right through Saulsby Wood once on the old pony, and not bringing you back till tea-time,
and Miss Blink going and telling my father?"

"Do I remember it? I think it was the happiest day in my life. His pockets were crammed full
of gingerbread and Everton toffy, and we had three bottles of lemonade slung on to the pony's
saddlebows. I thought it was a pity that we should ever come back."

"It was a pity," said Lord Chiltern.

"But, nevertheless, substantially necessary," said Lady Laura.

"Failing our power of reproducing the toffy, I suppose it was," said Violet.

"You were not Miss Effingham then," said Lord Chiltern.

"No,--not as yet. These disagreeable realities of life grow upon one; do they not? You took
off my shoes and dried them for me at a woodman's cottage. I am obliged to put up with my maid's
doing those things now. And Miss Blink the mild is changed for Lady Baldock the martinet. And
if I rode about with you in a wood all day I should be sent to Coventry instead of to bed.
And so you see everything is changed as well as my name."

"Everything is not changed," said Lord Chiltern, getting up from his seat. "I am not changed,--at
least not in this, that as I loved you better than any being in the world,--better even than
Laura there,--so do I love you now infinitely the best of all. Do not look so surprised at
me. You knew it before as well as you do now;--and Laura knows it. There is no secret to be
kept in the matter among us three."

"But, Lord Chiltern,--" said Miss Effingham, rising also to her feet, and then pausing, not
knowing how to answer him. There had been a suddenness in his mode of addressing her which
had, so to say, almost taken away her breath; and then to be told by a man of his love before
his sister was in itself, to her, a matter so surprising, that none of those words came at
her command which will come, as though by instinct, to young ladies on such occasions.

"You have known it always," said he, as though he were angry with her.

"Lord Chiltern," she replied, "you must excuse me if I say that you are, at the least, very
abrupt. I did not think when I was going back so joyfully to our childish days that you would
turn the tables on me in this way."

"He has said nothing that ought to make you angry," said Lady Laura.

"Only because he has driven me to say that which will make me appear to be uncivil to himself.
Lord Chiltern, I do not love you with that love of which you are speaking now. As an old friend
I have always regarded you, and I hope that I may always do so." Then she got up and left the room.

"Why were you so sudden with her,--so abrupt,--so loud?" said his sister, coming up to him
and taking him by the arm almost in anger.

"It would make no difference," said he. "She does not care for me."

"It makes all the difference in the world," said Lady Laura. "Such a woman as Violet cannot
be had after that fashion. You must begin again."

"I have begun and ended," he said.

"That is nonsense. Of course you will persist. It was madness to speak in that way to-day.
You may be sure of this, however, that there is no one she likes better than you. You must
remember that you have done much to make any girl afraid of you."

"I do remember it."

"Do something now to make her fear you no longer. Speak to her softly. Tell her of the sort
of life which you would live with her. Tell her that all is changed. As she comes to love you,
she will believe you when she would believe no one else on that matter."

"Am I to tell her a lie?" said Lord Chiltern, looking his sister full in the face. Then he
turned upon his heel and left her.

CHAPTER XII

Autumnal Prospects

The session went on very calmly after the opening battle which ousted Lord de Terrier and sent
Mr. Mildmay back to the Treasury,--so calmly that Phineas Finn was unconsciously disappointed,
as lacking that excitement of contest to which he had been introduced in the first days of
his parliamentary career. From time to time certain waspish attacks were made by Mr. Daubeny,
now on this Secretary of State and now on that; but they were felt by both parties to mean
nothing; and as no great measure was brought forward, nothing which would serve by the magnitude
of its interests to divide the liberal side of the House into fractions, Mr. Mildmay's Cabinet
was allowed to hold its own in comparative peace and quiet. It was now July,--the middle of
July,--and the member for Loughshane had not yet addressed the House. How often had he meditated
doing so; how he had composed his speeches walking round the Park on his way down to the House;
how he got his subjects up,--only to find on hearing them discussed that he really knew little
or nothing about them; how he had his arguments and almost his very words taken out of his
mouth by some other member; and lastly, how he had actually been deterred from getting upon
his legs by a certain tremor of blood round his heart when the moment for rising had come,--of
all this he never said a word to any man. Since that last journey to county Mayo, Laurence
Fitzgibbon had been his most intimate friend, but he said nothing of all this even to Laurence
Fitzgibbon. To his other friend, Lady Laura Standish, he did explain something of his feelings,
not absolutely describing to her the extent of hindrance to which his modesty had subjected
him, but letting her know that he had his qualms as well as his aspirations. But as Lady Laura
always recommended patience, and more than once expressed her opinion that a young member would
be better to sit in silence at least for one session, he was not driven to the mortification
of feeling that he was incurring her contempt by his bashfulness. As regarded the men among
whom he lived, I think he was almost annoyed at finding that no one seemed to expect that he
should speak. Barrington Erle, when he had first talked of sending Phineas down to Loughshane,
had predicted for him all manner of parliamentary successes, and had expressed the warmest
admiration of the manner in which Phineas had discussed this or that subject at the Union.
"We have not above one or two men in the House who can do that kind of thing," Barrington Erle
had once said. But now no allusions whatever were made to his powers of speech, and Phineas
in his modest moments began to be more amazed than ever that he should find himself seated
in that chamber.

To the forms and technicalities of parliamentary business he did give close attention, and
was unremitting in his attendance. On one or two occasions he ventured to ask a question of
the Speaker, and as the words of experience fell into his ears, he would tell himself that
he was going through his education,--that he was learning to be a working member, and perhaps
to be a statesman. But his regrets with reference to Mr. Low and the dingy chambers in Old
Square were very frequent; and had it been possible for him to undo all that he had done, he
would often have abandoned to some one else the honour of representing the electors of Loughshane.

But he was supported in all his difficulties by the kindness of his friend, Lady Laura Standish.
He was often in the house in Portman Square, and was always received with cordiality, and,
as he thought, almost with affection. She would sit and talk to him, sometimes saying a word
about her brother and sometimes about her father, as though there were more between them than
the casual intimacy of London acquaintance. And in Portman Square he had been introduced to
Miss Effingham, and had found Miss Effingham to be--very nice. Miss Effingham had quite taken
to him, and he had danced with her at two or three parties, talking always, as he did so, about
Lady Laura Standish.

"I declare, Laura, I think your friend Mr. Finn is in love with you," said Violet to Lady Laura
one night.

"I don't think that. He is fond of me, and so am I of him. He is so honest, and so naïve without
being awkward! And then he is undoubtedly clever."

"And so uncommonly handsome," said Violet.

"I don't know that that makes much difference," said Lady Laura.

"I think it does if a man looks like a gentleman as well."

"Mr. Finn certainly looks like a gentleman," said Lady Laura.

"And no doubt is one," said Violet. "I wonder whether he has got any money."

"Not a penny, I should say."

"How does such a man manage to live? There are so many men like that, and they are always mysteries
to me. I suppose he'll have to marry an heiress."

"Whoever gets him will not have a bad husband," said Lady Laura Standish.

Phineas during the summer had very often met Mr. Kennedy. They sat on the same side of the
House, they belonged to the same club, they dined together more than once in Portman Square,
and on one occasion Phineas had accepted an invitation to dinner sent to him by Mr. Kennedy
himself. "A slower affair I never saw in my life," he said afterwards to Laurence Fitzgibbon.
"Though there were two or three men there who talk everywhere else, they could not talk at
his table." "He gave you good wine, I should say," said Fitzgibbon, "and let me tell you that
that covers a multitude of sins." In spite, however, of all these opportunities for intimacy,
now, nearly at the end of the session, Phineas had hardly spoken a dozen words to Mr. Kennedy,
and really knew nothing whatsoever of the man, as one friend,--or even as one acquaintance
knows another. Lady Laura had desired him to be on good terms with Mr. Kennedy, and for that
reason he had dined with him. Nevertheless he disliked Mr. Kennedy, and felt quite sure that
Mr. Kennedy disliked him. He was therefore rather surprised when he received the following note:--

   Albany, Z 3, July 17, 186--.

   MY DEAR MR. FINN,

   I shall have some friends at Loughlinter next month, and
   should be very glad if you will join us. I will name the
   16th August. I don't know whether you shoot, but there are
   grouse and deer.

   Yours truly,

   ROBERT KENNEDY.

What was he to do? He had already begun to feel rather uncomfortable at the prospect of being
separated from all his new friends as soon as the session should be over. Laurence Fitzgibhon
had asked him to make another visit to county Mayo, but that he had declined. Lady Laura had
said something to him about going abroad with her brother, and since that there had sprung
up a sort of intimacy between him and Lord Chiltern; but nothing had been fixed about this
foreign trip, and there were pecuniary objections to it which put it almost out of his power.
The Christmas holidays he would of course pass with his family at Killaloe, but he hardly liked
the idea of hurrying off to Killaloe immediately the session should be over. Everybody around
him seemed to be looking forward to pleasant leisure doings in the country. Men talked about
grouse, and of the ladies at the houses to which they were going and of the people whom they
were to meet. Lady Laura had said nothing of her own movements for the early autumn, and no
invitation had come to him to go to the Earl's country house. He had already felt that every
one would depart and that he would be left,--and this had made him uncomfortable. What was
he to do with the invitation from Mr. Kennedy? He disliked the man, and had told himself half
a dozen times that he despised him. Of course he must refuse it. Even for the sake of the scenery,
and the grouse, and the pleasant party, and the feeling that going to Loughlinter in August
would be the proper sort of thing to do, he must refuse it! But it occurred to him at last
that he would call in Portman Square before he wrote his note.

"Of course you will go," said Lady Laura, in her most decided tone.

"And why?"

"In the first place it is civil in him to ask you, and why should you be uncivil in return?"

"There is nothing uncivil in not accepting a man's invitation," said Phineas.

"We are going," said Lady Laura, "and I can only say that I shall be disappointed if you do
not go too. Both Mr. Gresham and Mr. Monk will be there, and I believe they have never stayed
together in the same house before. I have no doubt there are a dozen men on your side of the
House who would give their eyes to be there. Of course you will go."

Of course he did go. The note accepting Mr. Kennedy's invitation was written at the Reform
Club within a quarter of an hour of his leaving Portman Square. He was very careful in writing
to be not more familiar or more civil than Mr. Kennedy had been to himself, and then he signed
himself "Yours truly, Phineas Finn." But another proposition was made to him, and a most charming
proposition, during the few minutes that he remained in Portman Square. "I am so glad," said
Lady Laura, "because I can now ask you to run down to us at Saulsby for a couple of days on
your way to Loughlinter. Till this was fixed I couldn't ask you to come all the way to Saulsby
for two days; and there won't be room for more between our leaving London and starting to Loughlinter."
Phineas swore that he would have gone if it had been but for one hour, and if Saulsby had been
twice the distance. "Very well; come on the 13th and go on the 15th. You must go on the 15th,
unless you choose to stay with the housekeeper. And remember, Mr. Finn, we have got no grouse
at Saulsby." Phineas declared that he did not care a straw for grouse.

There was another little occurrence which happened before Phineas left London, and which was
not altogether so charming as his prospects at Saulsby and Loughlinter. Early in August, when
the session was still incomplete, he dined with Laurence Fitzgibbon at the Reform Club. Laurence
had specially invited him to do so, and made very much of him on the occasion. "By George,
my dear fellow," Laurence said to him that morning, "nothing has happened to me this session
that has given me so much pleasure as your being in the House. Of course there are fellows
with whom one is very intimate and of whom one is very fond,--and all that sort of thing. But
most of these Englishmen on our side are such cold fellows; or else they are like Ratler and
Barrington Erle, thinking of nothing but politics. And then as to our own men, there are so
many of them one can hardly trust! That's the truth of it. Your being in the House has been
such a comfort to me!" Phineas, who really liked his friend Laurence, expressed himself very
warmly in answer to this, and became affectionate, and made sundry protestations of friendship
which were perfectly sincere. Their sincerity was tested after dinner, when Fitzgibbon, as
they two were seated on a sofa in the corner of the smoking-room, asked Phineas to put his
name to the back of a bill for two hundred and fifty pounds at six months' date.

"But, my dear Laurence," said Phineas, "two hundred and fifty pounds is a sum of money utterly
beyond my reach."

"Exactly, my dear boy, and that's why I've come to you. D'ye think I'd have asked anybody who
by any impossibility might have been made to pay anything for me?"

"But what's the use of it then?"

"All the use in the world. It's for me to judge of the use, you know. Why, d'ye think I'd ask
it if it wasn't any use? I'll make it of use, my boy. And take my word, you'll never hear about
it again. It's just a forestalling of my salary; that's all. I wouldn't do it till I saw that
we were at least safe for six months to come." Then Phineas Finn with many misgivings, with
much inward hatred of himself for his own weakness, did put his name on the back of the bill
which Laurence Fitzgibbon had prepared for his signature.

CHAPTER XIII

Saulsby Wood

"So you won't come to Moydrum again?" said Laurence Fitzgibbon to his friend.

"Not this autumn, Laurence. Your father would think that I want to live there."

"Bedad, it's my father would be glad to see you,--and the oftener the better."

"The fact is, my time is filled up."

"You're not going to be one of the party at Loughlinter?"

"I believe I am. Kennedy asked me, and people seem to think that everybody is to do what he
bids them."

"I should think so too. I wish he had asked me. I should have thought it as good as a promise
of an under-secretaryship. All the Cabinet are to be there. I don't suppose he ever had an
Irishman in his house before. When do you start?"

"Well;--on the 12th or 13th. I believe I shall go to Saulsby on my way."

"The devil you will. Upon my word, Phineas, my boy, you're the luckiest fellow I know. This
is your first year, and you're asked to the two most difficult houses in England. You have
only to look out for an heiress now. There is little Vi Effingham;--she is sure to be at Saulsby.
Good-bye, old fellow. Don't you be in the least unhappy about the bill. I'll see to making
that all right."

Phineas was rather unhappy about the bill; but there was so much that was pleasant in his cup
at the present moment, that he resolved, as far as possible, to ignore the bitter of that one
ingredient. He was a little in the dark as to two or three matters respecting these coming
visits. He would have liked to have taken a servant with him; but he had no servant, and felt
ashamed to hire one for the occasion. And then he was in trouble about a gun, and the paraphernalia
of shooting. He was not a bad shot at snipe in the bogs of county Clare, but he had never even
seen a gun used in England. However, he bought himself a gun,--with other paraphernalia, and
took a license for himself, and then groaned over the expense to which he found that his journey
would subject him. And at last he hired a servant for the occasion. He was intensely ashamed
of himself when he had done so, hating himself, and telling himself that he was going to the
devil headlong. And why had he done it? Not that Lady Laura would like him the better, or that
she would care whether he had a servant or not. She probably would know nothing of his servant.
But the people about her would know, and he was foolishly anxious that the people about her
should think that he was worthy of her.

Then he called on Mr. Low before he started. "I did not like to leave London without seeing
you," he said; "but I know you will have nothing pleasant to say to me."

"I shall say nothing unpleasant certainly. I see your name in the divisions, and I feel a sort
of envy myself."

"Any fool could go into a lobby," said Phineas.

"To tell you the truth, I have been gratified to see that you have had the patience to abstain
from speaking till you had looked about you. It was more than I expected from your hot Irish
blood. Going to meet Mr. Gresham and Mr. Monk,--are you? Well, I hope you may meet them in
the Cabinet some day. Mind you come and see me when Parliament meets in February."

Mrs. Bunce was delighted when she found that Phineas had hired a servant; but Mr. Bunce predicted
nothing but evil from so vain an expense. "Don't tell me; where is it to come from? He ain't
no richer because he's in Parliament. There ain't no wages. M.P. and M.T.,"--whereby Mr. Bunce,
I fear, meant empty,--"are pretty much alike when a man hasn't a fortune at his back." "But
he's going to stay with all the lords in the Cabinet," said Mrs. Bunce, to whom Phineas, in
his pride, had confided perhaps more than was necessary. "Cabinet, indeed," said Bunce; "if
he'd stick to chambers, and let alone cabinets, he'd do a deal better. Given up his rooms,
has he,--till February? He don't expect we're going to keep them empty for him!"

Phineas found that the house was full at Saulsby, although the sojourn of the visitors would
necessarily be so short. There were three or four there on their way on to Loughlinter, like
himself,--Mr. Bonteen and Mr. Ratler, with Mr. Palliser, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and
his wife,--and there was Violet Effingham, who, however, was not going to Loughlinter. "No,
indeed," she said to our hero, who on the first evening had the pleasure of taking her in to
dinner, "unfortunately I haven't a seat in Parliament, and therefore I am not asked."

"Lady Laura is going."

"Yes;--but Lady Laura has a Cabinet Minister in her keeping. I've only one comfort;--you'll
be awfully dull."

"I daresay it would be very much nicer to stay here," said Phineas.

"If you want to know my real mind," said Violet, "I would give one of my little fingers to
go. There will be four Cabinet Ministers in the house, and four un-Cabinet Ministers, and half
a dozen other members of Parliament, and there will be Lady Glencora Palliser, who is the best
fun in the world; and, in point of fact, it's the thing of the year. But I am not asked. You
see I belong to the Baldock faction, and we don't sit on your side of the House. Mr. Kennedy
thinks that I should tell secrets."

Why on earth had Mr. Kennedy invited him, Phineas Finn, to meet four Cabinet Ministers and
Lady Glencora Palliser? He could only have done so at the instance of Lady Laura Standish.
It was delightful for Phineas to think that Lady Laura cared for him so deeply; but it was
not equally delightful when he remembered how very close must be the alliance between Mr. Kennedy
and Lady Laura, when she was thus powerful with him.

At Saulsby Phineas did not see much of his hostess. When they were making their plans for the
one entire day of this visit, she said a soft word of apology to him. "I am so busy with all
these people, that I hardly know what I am doing. But we shall be able to find a quiet minute
or two at Loughlinter,--unless, indeed, you intend to be on the mountains all day. I suppose
you have brought a gun like everybody else?"

"Yes;--I have brought a gun. I do shoot; but I am not an inveterate sportsman."

On that one day there was a great riding party made up, and Phineas found himself mounted,
after luncheon, with some dozen other equestrians. Among them were Miss Effingham and Lady
Glencora, Mr. Ratler and the Earl of Brentford himself. Lady Glencora, whose husband was, as
has been said, Chancellor of the Exchequer, and who was still a young woman, and a very pretty
woman, had taken lately very strongly to politics, which she discussed among men and women
of both parties with something more than ordinary audacity. "What a nice, happy, lazy time
you've had of it since you've been in," said she to the Earl.

"I hope we have been more happy than lazy," said the Earl.

"But you've done nothing. Mr. Palliser has twenty schemes of reform, all mature; but among
you you've not let him bring in one of them. The Duke and Mr. Mildmay and you will break his
heart among you."

"Poor Mr. Palliser!"

"The truth is, if you don't take care he and Mr. Monk and Mr. Gresham will arise and shake
themselves, and turn you all out."

"We must look to ourselves, Lady Glencora."

"Indeed, yes;--or you will be known to all posterity as the fainéant government."

"Let me tell you, Lady Glencora, that a fainéant government is not the worst government that
England can have. It has been the great fault of our politicians that they have all wanted
to do something."

"Mr. Mildmay is at any rate innocent of that charge," said Lady Glencora.

They were now riding through a vast wood, and Phineas found himself delightfully established
by the side of Violet Effingham. "Mr. Ratler has been explaining to me that he must have nineteen
next session. Now, if I were you, Mr. Finn, I would decline to be counted up in that way as
one of Mr. Ratler's sheep."

"But what am I to do?"

"Do something on your own hook. You men in Parliament are so much like sheep! If one jumps
at a gap, all go after him,--and then you are penned into lobbies, and then you are fed, and
then you are fleeced. I wish I were in Parliament. I'd get up in the middle and make such a
speech. You all seem to me to be so much afraid of one another that you don't quite dare to
speak out. Do you see that cottage there?"

"What a pretty cottage it is!"

"Yes;--is it not? Twelve years ago I took off my shoes and stockings and had them dried in
that cottage, and when I got back to the house I was put to bed for having been out all day
in the wood."

"Were you wandering about alone?"

"No, I wasn't alone. Oswald Standish was with me. We were children then. Do you know him?"

"Lord Chiltern;--yes, I know him. He and I have been rather friends this year."

"He is very good;--is he not?"

"Good,--in what way?"

"Honest and generous!"

"I know no man whom I believe to be more so."

"And he is clever?" asked Miss Effingham.

"Very clever. That is, he talks very well if you will let him talk after his own fashion. You
would always fancy that he was going to eat you;--but that is his way."

"And you like him?"

"Very much."

"I am so glad to hear you say so."

"Is he a favourite of yours, Miss Effingham?"

"Not now,--not particularly. I hardly ever see him. But his sister is the best friend I have,
and I used to like him so much when he was a boy! I have not seen that cottage since that day,
and I remember it as though it were yesterday. Lord Chiltern is quite changed, is he not?"

"Changed,--in what way?"

"They used to say that he was--unsteady you know."

"I think he is changed. But Chiltern is at heart a Bohemian. It is impossible not to see that
at once. He hates the decencies of life."

"I suppose he does," said Violet. "He ought to marry. If he were married, that would all be
cured;--don't you think so?"

"I cannot fancy him with a wife," said Phineas, "There is a savagery about him which would
make him an uncomfortable companion for a woman."

"But he would love his wife?"

"Yes, as he does his horses. And he would treat her well,--as he does his horses. But he expects
every horse he has to do anything that any horse can do; and he would expect the same of his wife."

Phineas had no idea how deep an injury he might be doing his friend by this description, nor
did it once occur to him that his companion was thinking of herself as the possible wife of
this Red Indian. Miss Effingham rode on in silence for some distance, and then she said but
one word more about Lord Chiltern. "He was so good to me in that cottage."

On the following day the party at Saulsby was broken up, and there was a regular pilgrimage
towards Loughlinter. Phineas resolved upon sleeping a night at Edinburgh on his way, and he
found himself joined in the bands of close companionship with Mr. Ratler for the occasion.
The evening was by no means thrown away, for he learned much of his trade from Mr. Ratler.
And Mr. Ratler was heard to declare afterwards at Loughlinter that Mr. Finn was a pleasant
young man.

It soon came to be admitted by all who knew Phineas Finn that he had a peculiar power of making
himself agreeable which no one knew how to analyse or define. "I think it is because he listens
so well," said one man. "But the women would not like him for that," said another. "He has
studied when to listen and when to talk," said a third. The truth, however, was, that Phineas
Finn had made no study in the matter at all. It was simply his nature to be pleasant.

CHAPTER XIV

Loughlinter

Phineas Finn reached Loughlinter together with Mr. Ratler in a post-chaise from the neighbouring
town. Mr. Ratler, who had done this kind of thing very often before, travelled without impediments,
but the new servant of our hero's was stuck outside with the driver, and was in the way. "I
never bring a man with me," said Mr. Ratler to his young friend. "The servants of the house
like it much better, because they get fee'd; you are just as well waited on, and it don't cost
half as much." Phineas blushed as he heard all this; but there was the impediment, not to be
got rid of for the nonce, and Phineas made the best of his attendant. "It's one of those points,"
said he, "as to which a man never quite makes up his mind. If you bring a fellow, you wish
you hadn't brought him; and if you don't, you wish you had." "I'm a great deal more decided
in my ways that that," said Mr. Ratler.

Loughlinter, as they approached it, seemed to Phineas to be a much finer place than Saulsby.
And so it was, except that Loughlinter wanted that graceful beauty of age which Saulsby possessed.
Loughlinter was all of cut stone, but the stones had been cut only yesterday. It stood on a
gentle slope, with a greensward falling from the front entrance down to a mountain lake. And
on the other side of the Lough there rose a mighty mountain to the skies, Ben Linter. At the
foot of it, and all round to the left, there ran the woods of Linter, stretching for miles
through crags and bogs and mountain lands. No better ground for deer than the side of Ben Linter
was there in all those highlands. And the Linter, rushing down into the Lough through rocks
which, in some places, almost met together above its waters, ran so near to the house that
the pleasant noise of its cataracts could be heard from the hall door. Behind the house the
expanse of drained park land seemed to be interminable; and then, again, came the mountains.
There were Ben Linn and Ben Lody;--and the whole territory belonging to Mr. Kennedy. He was
laird of Linn and laird of Linter, as his people used to say. And yet his father had walked
into Glasgow as a little boy,--no doubt with the normal half-crown in his breeches pocket.

"Magnificent;--is it not?" said Phineas to the Treasury Secretary, as they were being driven
up to the door.

"Very grand;--but the young trees show the new man. A new man may buy a forest; but he can't
get park trees."

Phineas, at the moment, was thinking how far all these things which he saw, the mountains stretching
everywhere around him, the castle, the lake, the river, the wealth of it all, and, more than
the wealth, the nobility of the beauty, might act as temptations to Lady Laura Standish. If
a woman were asked to have the half of all this, would it be possible that she should prefer
to take the half of his nothing? He thought it might be possible for a girl who would confess,
or seem to confess, that love should be everything. But it could hardly be possible for a woman
who looked at the world almost as a man looked at it,--as an oyster to be opened with such
weapon as she could find ready to her hand. Lady Laura professed to have a care for all the
affairs of the world. She loved politics, and could talk of social science, and had broad ideas
about religion, and was devoted to certain educational views. Such a woman would feel that
wealth was necessary to her, and would be willing, for the sake of wealth, to put up with a
husband without romance. Nay; might it not be that she would prefer a husband without romance?
Thus Phineas was arguing to himself as he was driven up to the door of Loughlinter Castle,
while Mr. Ratler was eloquent on the beauty of old park trees. "After all, a Scotch forest
is a very scrubby sort of thing," said Mr. Ratler.

There was nobody in the house,--at least, they found nobody; and within half an hour Phineas
was walking about the grounds by himself. Mr. Ratler had declared himself to be delighted at
having an opportunity of writing letters,--and no doubt was writing them by the dozen, all
dated from Loughlinter, and all detailing the facts that Mr. Gresham, and Mr. Monk, and Plantagenet
Palliser, and Lord Brentford were in the same house with him. Phineas had no letters to write,
and therefore rushed down across the broad lawn to the river, of which he heard the noisy tumbling
waters. There was something in the air which immediately filled him with high spirits; and,
in his desire to investigate the glories of the place, he forgot that he was going to dine
with four Cabinet Ministers in a row. He soon reached the stream, and began to make his way
up it through the ravine. There was waterfall over waterfall, and there were little bridges
here and there which looked to be half natural and half artificial, and a path which required
that you should climb, but which was yet a path, and all was so arranged that not a pleasant
splashing rush of the waters was lost to the visitor. He went on and on, up the stream, till
there was a sharp turn in the ravine, and then, looking upwards, he saw above his head a man
and a woman standing together on one of the little half-made wooden bridges. His eyes were
sharp, and he saw at a glance that the woman was Lady Laura Standish. He had not recognised
the man, but he had very little doubt that it was Mr. Kennedy. Of course it was Mr. Kennedy,
because he would prefer that it should be any other man under the sun. He would have turned
back at once if he had thought that he could have done so without being observed; but he felt
sure that, standing as they were, they must have observed him. He did not like to join them.
He would not intrude himself. So he remained still, and began to throw stones into the river.
But he had not thrown above a stone or two when he was called from above. He looked up, and
then he perceived that the man who called him was his host. Of course it was Mr. Kennedy. Thereupon
he ceased to throw stones, and went up the path, and joined them upon the bridge. Mr. Kennedy
stepped forward, and bade him welcome to Loughlinter. His manner was less cold, and he seemed
to have more words at command than was usual with him. "You have not been long," he said, "in
finding out the most beautiful spot about the place."

"Is it not lovely?" said Laura. "We have not been here an hour yet, and Mr. Kennedy insisted
on bringing me here."

"It is wonderfully beautiful," said Phineas.

"It is this very spot where we now stand that made me build the house where it is," said Mr.
Kennedy, "and I was only eighteen when I stood here and made up my mind. That is just twenty-five
years ago." "So he is forty-three," said Phineas to himself, thinking how glorious it was to
be only twenty-five. "And within twelve months," continued Mr. Kennedy, "the foundations were
being dug and the stone-cutters were at work."

"What a good-natured man your father must have been," said Lady Laura.

"He had nothing else to do with his money but to pour it over my head, as it were. I don't
think he had any other enjoyment of it himself. Will you go a little higher, Lady Laura? We
shall get a fine view over to Ben Linn just now." Lady Laura declared that she would go as
much higher as he chose to take her, and Phineas was rather in doubt as to what it would become
him to do. He would stay where he was, or go down, or make himself to vanish after any most
acceptable fashion; but if he were to do so abruptly it would seem as though he were attributing
something special to the companionship of the other two. Mr. Kennedy saw his doubt, and asked
him to join them. "You may as well come on, Mr. Finn. We don't dine till eight, and it is not
much past six yet. The men of business are all writing letters, and the ladies who have been
travelling are in bed, I believe."

"Not all of them, Mr. Kennedy," said Lady Laura. Then they went on with their walk very pleasantly,
and the lord of all that they surveyed took them from one point of vantage to another, till
they both swore that of all spots upon the earth Loughlinter was surely the most lovely. "I
do delight in it, I own," said the lord. "When I come up here alone, and feel that in the midst
of this little bit of a crowded island I have all this to myself,--all this with which no other
man's wealth can interfere,--I grow proud of my own, till I become thoroughly ashamed of myself.
After all, I believe it is better to dwell in cities than in the country,--better, at any rate,
for a rich man." Mr. Kennedy had now spoken more words than Phineas had heard to fall from
his lips during the whole time that they had been acquainted with each other.

"I believe so too," said Laura, "if one were obliged to choose between the two. For myself,
I think that a little of both is good for man and woman."

"There is no doubt about that," said Phineas.

"No doubt as far as enjoyment goes," said Mr. Kennedy.

He took them up out of the ravine on to the side of the mountain, and then down by another
path through the woods to the back of the house. As they went he relapsed into his usual silence,
and the conversation was kept up between the other two. At a point not very far from the castle,--just
so far that one could see by the break of the ground where the castle stood, Kennedy left them.
"Mr. Finn will take you back in safety, I am sure," said he, "and, as I am here, I'll go up
to the farm for a moment. If I don't show myself now and again when I am here, they think I'm
indifferent about the 'bestials'."

"Now, Mr. Kennedy," said Lady Laura, "you are going to pretend to understand all about sheep
and oxen." Mr. Kennedy, owning that it was so, went away to his farm, and Phineas with Lady
Laura returned towards the house. "I think, upon the whole," said Lady Laura, "that that is
as good a man as I know."

"I should think he is an idle one," said Phineas.

"I doubt that. He is, perhaps, neither zealous nor active. But he is thoughtful and high-principled,
and has a method and a purpose in the use which he makes of his money. And you see that he
has poetry in his nature too, if you get him upon the right string. How fond he is of the scenery
of this place!"

"Any man would be fond of that. I'm ashamed to say that it almost makes me envy him. I certainly
never have wished to be Mr. Robert Kennedy in London, but I should like to be the Laird of
Loughlinter."

"'Laird of Linn and Laird of Linter,--Here in summer, gone in winter.' There is some ballad
about the old lairds; but that belongs to a time when Mr. Kennedy had not been heard of, when
some branch of the Mackenzies lived down at that wretched old tower which you see as you first
come upon the lake. When old Mr. Kennedy bought it there were hardly a hundred acres on the
property under cultivation."

"And it belonged to the Mackenzies."

"Yes;--to the Mackenzie of Linn, as he was called. It was Mr. Kennedy, the old man, who was
first called Loughlinter. That is Linn Castle, and they lived there for hundreds of years.
But these Highlanders, with all that is said of their family pride, have forgotten the Mackenzies
already, and are quite proud of their rich landlord."

"That is unpoetical," said Phineas.

"Yes;--but then poetry is so usually false. I doubt whether Scotland would not have been as
prosaic a country as any under the sun but for Walter Scott;--and I have no doubt that Henry
V owes the romance of his character altogether to Shakspeare."

"I sometimes think you despise poetry," said Phineas.

"When it is false I do. The difficulty is to know when it is false and when it is true. Tom
Moore was always false."

"Not so false as Byron," said Phineas with energy.

"Much more so, my friend. But we will not discuss that now. Have you seen Mr. Monk since you
have been here?"

"I have seen no one. I came with Mr. Ratler."

"Why with Mr. Ratler? You cannot find Mr. Ratler a companion much to your taste."

"Chance brought us together. But Mr. Ratler is a man of sense, Lady Laura, and is not to be
despised."

"It always seems to me," said Lady Laura, "that nothing is to be gained in politics by sitting
at the feet of the little Gamaliels."

"But the great Gamaliels will not have a novice on their footstools."

"Then sit at no man's feet. Is it not astonishing that the price generally put upon any article
by the world is that which the owner puts on it?--and that this is specially true of a man's
own self? If you herd with Ratler, men will take it for granted that you are a Ratlerite, and
no more. If you consort with Greshams and Pallisers, you will equally be supposed to know your
own place."

"I never knew a Mentor," said Phineas, "so apt as you are to fill his Telemachus with pride."

"It is because I do not think your fault lies that way. If it did, or if I thought so, my Telemachus,
you may be sure that I should resign my position as Mentor. Here are Mr. Kennedy and Lady Glencora
and Mrs. Gresham on the steps." Then they went up through the Ionic columns on to the broad
stone terrace before the door, and there they found a crowd of men and women. For the legislators
and statesmen had written their letters, and the ladies had taken their necessary rest.

Phineas, as he was dressing, considered deeply all that Lady Laura had said to him,--not so
much with reference to the advice which she had given him, though that also was of importance,
as to the fact that it had been given by her. She had first called herself his Mentor; but
he had accepted the name and had addressed her as her Telemachus. And yet he believed himself
to be older than she,--if, indeed, there was any difference in their ages. And was it possible
that a female Mentor should love her Telemachus,--should love him as Phineas desired to be
loved by Lady Laura? He would not say that it was impossible. Perhaps there had been mistakes
between them;--a mistake in his manner of addressing her, and another in hers of addressing
him. Perhaps the old bachelor of forty-three was not thinking of a wife. Had this old bachelor
of forty-three been really in love with Lady Laura, would he have allowed her to walk home
alone with Phineas, leaving her with some flimsy pretext of having to look at his sheep? Phineas
resolved that he must at any rate play out his game,--whether he were to lose it or to win
it; and in playing it he must, if possible, drop something of that Mentor and Telemachus style
of conversation. As to the advice given him of herding with Greshams and Pallisers, instead
of with Ratlers and Fitzgibbons,--he must use that as circumstances might direct. To him, himself,
as he thought of it all, it was sufficiently astonishing that even the Ratlers and Fitzgibbons
should admit him among them as one of themselves. "When I think of my father and of the old
house at Killaloe, and remember that hitherto I have done nothing myself, I cannot understand
how it is that I should be at Loughlinter." There was only one way of understanding it. If
Lady Laura really loved him, the riddle might be read.

The rooms at Loughlinter were splendid, much larger and very much more richly furnished than
those at Saulsby. But there was a certain stiffness in the movement of things, and perhaps
in the manner of some of those present, which was not felt at Saulsby. Phineas at once missed
the grace and prettiness and cheery audacity of Violet Effingham, and felt at the same time
that Violet Effingham would be out of her element at Loughlinter. At Loughlinter they were
met for business. It was at least a semi-political, or perhaps rather a semi-official gathering,
and he became aware that he ought not to look simply for amusement. When he entered the drawing-room
before dinner, Mr. Monk and Mr. Palliser, and Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Gresham, with sundry others,
were standing in a wide group before the fireplace, and among them were Lady Glencora Palliser
and Lady Laura and Mrs. Bonteen. As he approached them it seemed as though a sort of opening
was made for himself; but he could see, though others did not, that the movement came from
Lady Laura.

"I believe, Mr. Monk," said Lady Glencora, "that you and I are the only two in the whole party
who really know what we would be at."

"If I must be divided from so many of my friends," said Mr. Monk, "I am happy to go astray
in the company of Lady Glencora Palliser."

"And might I ask," said Mr. Gresham, with a peculiar smile for which he was famous, "what it
is that you and Mr. Monk are really at?"

"Making men and women all equal," said Lady Glencora. "That I take to be the gist of our political
theory."

"Lady Glencora, I must cry off," said Mr. Monk.

"Yes;--no doubt. If I were in the Cabinet myself I should not admit so much. There are reticences,--of
course. And there is an official discretion."

"But you don't mean to say, Lady Glencora, that you would really advocate equality?" said Mrs.
Bonteen.

"I do mean to say so, Mrs. Bonteen. And I mean to go further, and to tell you that you are
no Liberal at heart unless you do so likewise; unless that is the basis of your political aspirations."

"Pray let me speak for myself, Lady Glencora."

"By no means,--not when you are criticising me and my politics. Do you not wish to make the
lower orders comfortable?"

"Certainly," said Mrs. Bonteen.

"And educated, and happy and good?"

"Undoubtedly."

"To make them as comfortable and as good as yourself?"

"Better if possible."

"And I'm sure you wish to make yourself as good and as comfortable as anybody else,--as those
above you, if anybody is above you? You will admit that?"

"Yes;--if I understand you."

"Then you have admitted everything, and are an advocate for general equality,--just as Mr.
Monk is, and as I am. There is no getting out of it;--is there, Mr. Kennedy?" Then dinner was
announced, and Mr. Kennedy walked off with the French Republican on his arm. As she went, she
whispered into Mr. Kennedy's ear, "You will understand me. I am not saying that people are
equal; but that the tendency of all law-making and of all governing should be to reduce the
inequalities." In answer to which Mr. Kennedy said not a word. Lady Glencora's politics were
too fast and furious for his nature.

A week passed by at Loughlinter, at the end of which Phineas found himself on terms of friendly
intercourse with all the political magnates assembled in the house, but especially with Mr.
Monk. He had determined that he would not follow Lady Laura's advice as to his selection of
companions, if in doing so he should be driven even to a seeming of intrusion. He made no attempt
to sit at the feet of anybody, and would stand aloof when bigger men than himself were talking,
and was content to be less,--as indeed he was less,--than Mr. Bonteen or Mr. Ratler. But at
the end of a week he found that, without any effort on his part,--almost in opposition to efforts
on his part,--he had fallen into an easy pleasant way with these men which was very delightful
to him. He had killed a stag in company with Mr. Palliser, and had stopped beneath a crag to
discuss with him a question as to the duty on Irish malt. He had played chess with Mr. Gresham,
and had been told that gentleman's opinion on the trial of Mr. Jefferson Davis. Lord Brentford
had--at last--called him Finn, and had proved to him that nothing was known in Ireland about
sheep. But with Mr. Monk he had had long discussions on abstract questions in politics,--and
before the week was over was almost disposed to call himself a disciple, or, at least, a follower
of Mr. Monk. Why not of Mr. Monk as well as of any one else? Mr. Monk was in the Cabinet, and
of all the members of the Cabinet was the most advanced Liberal. "Lady Glencora was not so
far wrong the other night," Mr. Monk said to him. "Equality is an ugly word and shouldn't be
used. It misleads, and frightens, and is a bugbear. And she, in using it, had not perhaps a
clearly defined meaning for it in her own mind. But the wish of every honest man should be
to assist in lifting up those below him, till they be something nearer his own level than he
finds them." To this Phineas assented,--and by degrees he found himself assenting to a great
many things that Mr. Monk said to him.

Mr. Monk was a thin, tall, gaunt man, who had devoted his whole life to politics, hitherto
without any personal reward beyond that which came to him from the reputation of his name,
and from the honour of a seat in Parliament. He was one of four or five brothers,--and all
besides him were in trade. They had prospered in trade, whereas he had prospered solely in
politics; and men said that he was dependent altogether on what his relatives supplied for
his support. He had now been in Parliament for more than twenty years, and had been known not
only as a Radical but as a Democrat. Ten years since, when he had risen to fame, but not to
repute, among the men who then governed England, nobody dreamed that Joshua Monk would ever
be a paid servant of the Crown. He had inveighed against one minister after another as though
they all deserved impeachment. He had advocated political doctrines which at that time seemed
to be altogether at variance with any possibility of governing according to English rules of
government. He had been regarded as a pestilent thorn in the sides of all ministers. But now
he was a member of the Cabinet, and those whom he had terrified in the old days began to find
that he was not so much unlike other men. There are but few horses which you cannot put into
harness, and those of the highest spirit will generally do your work the best.

Phineas, who had his eyes about him, thought that he could perceive that Mr. Palliser did not
shoot a deer with Mr. Ratler, and that Mr. Gresham played no chess with Mr. Bonteen. Bonteen,
indeed, was a noisy pushing man whom nobody seemed to like, and Phineas wondered why he should
be at Loughlinter, and why he should be in office. His friend Laurence Fitzgibbon had indeed
once endeavoured to explain this. "A man who can vote hard, as I call it; and who will speak
a few words now and then as they're wanted, without any ambition that way, may always have
his price. And if he has a pretty wife into the bargain, he ought to have a pleasant time of
it." Mr. Ratler no doubt was a very useful man, who thoroughly knew his business; but yet,
as it seemed to Phineas, no very great distinction was shown to Mr. Ratler at Loughlinter.
"If I got as high as that," he said to himself, "I should think myself a miracle of luck. And
yet nobody seems to think anything of Ratler. It is all nothing unless one can go to the very top."

"I believe I did right to accept office," Mr. Monk said to him one day, as they sat together
on a rock close by one of the little bridges over the Linter. "Indeed, unless a man does so
when the bonds of the office tendered to him are made compatible with his own views, he declines
to proceed on the open path towards the prosecution of those views. A man who is combating
one ministry after another, and striving to imbue those ministers with his convictions, can
hardly decline to become a minister himself when he finds that those convictions of his own
are henceforth,--or at least for some time to come,--to be the ministerial convictions of the
day. Do you follow me?"

"Very clearly," said Phineas. "You would have denied your own children had you refused."

"Unless indeed a man were to feel that he was in some way unfitted for office work. I very
nearly provided for myself an escape on that plea;--but when I came to sift it, I thought that
it would be false. But let me tell you that the delight of political life is altogether in
opposition. Why, it is freedom against slavery, fire against clay, movement against stagnation!
The very inaccuracy which is permitted to opposition is in itself a charm worth more than all
the patronage and all the prestige of ministerial power. You'll try them both, and then say
if you do not agree with me. Give me the full swing of the benches below the gangway, where
I needed to care for no one, and could always enjoy myself on my legs as long as I felt that
I was true to those who sent me there! That is all over now. They have got me into harness,
and my shoulders are sore. The oats, however, are of the best, and the hay is unexceptionable."

CHAPTER XV

Donald Bean's Pony

Phineas liked being told that the pleasures of opposition and the pleasures of office were
both open to him,--and he liked also to be the chosen receptacle of Mr. Monk's confidence.
He had come to understand that he was expected to remain ten days at Loughlinter, and that
then there was to be a general movement. Since the first day he had seen but little of Mr.
Kennedy, but he had found himself very frequently with Lady Laura. And then had come up the
question of his projected trip to Paris with Lord Chiltern. He had received a letter from Lord
Chiltern.

   DEAR FINN,

   Are you going to Paris with me?

   Yours, C.

There had been not a word beyond this, and before he answered it he made up his mind to tell
Lady Laura the truth. He could not go to Paris because he had no money.

"I've just got that from your brother," said he.

"How like Oswald. He writes to me perhaps three times in the year, and his letters are just
the same. You will go I hope?"

"Well;--no."

"I am sorry for that."

"I wonder whether I may tell you the real reason, Lady Laura."

"Nay;--I cannot answer that; but unless it be some political secret between you and Mr. Monk,
I should think you might."

"I cannot afford to go to Paris this autumn. It seems to be a shocking admission to make,--though
I don't know why it should be."

"Nor I;--but, Mr. Finn, I like you all the better for making it. I am very sorry, for Oswald's
sake. It's so hard to find any companion for him whom he would like and whom we,--that is I,--should
think altogether--; you know what I mean, Mr. Finn."

"Your wish that I should go with him is a great compliment, and I thoroughly wish that I could
do it. As it is, I must go to Killaloe and retrieve my finances. I daresay, Lady Laura, you
can hardly conceive how very poor a man I am." There was a melancholy tone about his voice
as he said this, which made her think for the moment whether or no he had been right in going
into Parliament, and whether she had been right in instigating him to do so. But it was too
late to recur to that question now.

"You must climb into office early, and forego those pleasures of opposition which are so dear
to Mr. Monk," she said, smiling. "After all, money is an accident which does not count nearly
so high as do some other things. You and Mr. Kennedy have the same enjoyment of everything
around you here."

"Yes; while it lasts."

"And Lady Glencora and I stand pretty much on the same footing, in spite of all her wealth,--except
that she is a married woman. I do not know what she is worth,--something not to be counted;
and I am worth,--just what papa chooses to give me. A ten-pound note at the present moment
I should look upon as great riches." This was the first time she had ever spoken to him of
her own position as regards money; but he had heard, or thought that he had heard, that she
had been left a fortune altogether independent of her father.

The last of the ten days had now come, and Phineas was discontented and almost unhappy. The
more he saw of Lady Laura the more he feared that it was impossible that she should become
his wife. And yet from day to day his intimacy with her became more close. He had never made
love to her, nor could he discover that it was possible for him to do so. She seemed to be
a woman for whom all the ordinary stages of love-making were quite unsuitable, Of course he
could declare his love and ask her to be his wife on any occasion on which he might find himself
to be alone with her. And on this morning he had made up his mind that he would do so before
the day was over. It might be possible that she would never speak to him again;--that all the
pleasures and ambitious hopes to which she had introduced him might be over as soon as that
rash word should have been spoken! But, nevertheless, he would speak it.

On this day there was to be a grouse-shooting party, and the shooters were to be out early.
It had been talked of for some day or two past, and Phineas knew that he could not escape it.
There had been some rivalry between him and Mr. Bonteen, and there was to be a sort of match
as to which of the two would kill most birds before lunch. But there had also been some half
promise on Lady Laura's part that she would walk with him up the Linter and come down upon
the lake, taking an opposite direction from that by which they had returned with Mr. Kennedy.

"But you will be shooting all day," she said, when he proposed it to her as they were starting
for the moor. The waggonet that was to take them was at the door, and she was there to see
them start. Her father was one of the shooting party, and Mr. Kennedy was another.

"I will undertake to be back in time, if you will not think it too hot. I shall not see you
again till we meet in town next year."

"Then I certainly will go with you,--that is to say, if you are here. But you cannot return
without the rest of the party, as you are going so far."

"I'll get back somehow," said Phineas, who was resolved that a few miles more or less of mountain
should not detain him from the prosecution of a task so vitally important to him. "If we start
at five that will be early enough."

"Quite early enough," said Lady Laura.

Phineas went off to the mountains, and shot his grouse, and won his match, and eat his luncheon.
Mr. Bonteen, however, was not beaten by much, and was in consequence somewhat ill-humoured.

"I'll tell you what I'll do," said Mr. Bonteen, "I'll back myself for the rest of the day for
a ten-pound note."

Now there had been no money staked on the match at all,--but it had been simply a trial of
skill, as to which would kill the most birds in a given time. And the proposition for that
trial had come from Mr. Bonteen himself. "I should not think of shooting for money," said Phineas.

"And why not? A bet is the only way to decide these things."

"Partly because I'm sure I shouldn't hit a bird," said Phineas, "and partly because I haven't
got any money to lose."

"I hate bets," said Mr. Kennedy to him afterwards. "I was annoyed when Bonteen offered the
wager. I felt sure, however, you would not accept it."

"I suppose such bets are very common."

"I don't think men ought to propose them unless they are quite sure of their company. Maybe
I'm wrong, and I often feel that I am strait-laced about such things. It is so odd to me that
men cannot amuse themselves without pitting themselves against each other. When a man tells
me that he can shoot better than I, I tell him that my keeper can shoot better than he."

"All the same, it's a good thing to excel," said Phineas.

"I'm not so sure of that," said Mr. Kennedy. "A man who can kill more salmon than anybody else,
can rarely do anything else. Are you going on with your match?"

"No; I'm going to make my way to Loughlinter."

"Not alone?"

"Yes, alone."

"It's over nine miles. You can't walk it."

Phineas looked at his watch, and found that it was now two o'clock. It was a broiling day in
August, and the way back to Loughlinter, for six or seven out of the nine miles, would be along
a high road. "I must do it all the same," said he, preparing for a start. "I have an engagement
with Lady Laura Standish; and as this is the last day that I shall see her, I certainly do
not mean to break it."

"An engagement with Lady Laura," said Mr. Kennedy. "Why did you not tell me, that I might have
a pony ready? But come along. Donald Bean has a pony. He's not much bigger than a dog, but
he'll carry you to Loughlinter."

"I can walk it, Mr. Kennedy."

"Yes; and think of the state in which you'd reach Loughlinter! Come along with me."

"But I can't take you off the mountain," said Phineas.

"Then you must allow me to take you off."

So Mr. Kennedy led the way down to Donald Bean's cottage, and before three o'clock Phineas
found himself mounted on a shaggy steed, which, in sober truth, was not much bigger than a
large dog. "If Mr. Kennedy is really my rival," said Phineas to himself, as he trotted along,
"I almost think that I am doing an unhandsome thing in taking the pony."

At five o'clock he was under the portico before the front door, and there he found Lady Laura
waiting for him,--waiting for him, or at least ready for him. She had on her hat and gloves
and light shawl, and her parasol was in her hand. He thought that he had never seen her look
so young, so pretty, and so fit to receive a lover's vows. But at the same moment it occurred
to him that she was Lady Laura Standish, the daughter of an Earl, the descendant of a line
of Earls,--and that he was the son of a simple country doctor in Ireland. Was it fitting that
he should ask such a woman to be his wife? But then Mr. Kennedy was the son of a man who had
walked into Glasgow with half-a-crown in his pocket. Mr. Kennedy's grandfather had been,--Phineas
thought that he had heard that Mr. Kennedy's grandfather had been a Scotch drover; whereas
his own grandfather had been a little squire near Ennistimon, in county Clare, and his own
first cousin once removed still held the paternal acres at Finn Grove. His family was supposed
to be descended from kings in that part of Ireland. It certainly did not become him to fear
Lady Laura on the score of rank, if it was to be allowed to Mr. Kennedy to proceed without
fear on that head. As to wealth, Lady Laura had already told him that her fortune was no greater
than his. Her statement to himself on that head made him feel that he should not hesitate on
the score of money. They neither had any, and he was willing to work for both. If she feared
the risk, let her say so.

It was thus that he argued with himself; but yet he knew,--knew as well as the reader will
know,--that he was going to do that which he had no right to do. It might be very well for
him to wait,--presuming him to be successful in his love,--for the opening of that oyster with
his political sword, that oyster on which he proposed that they should both live; but such
waiting could not well be to the taste of Lady Laura Standish. It could hardly be pleasant
to her to look forward to his being made a junior lord or an assistant secretary before she
could establish herself in her home. So he told himself. And yet he told himself at the same
time that it was incumbent on him to persevere.

"I did not expect you in the least," said Lady Laura.

"And yet I spoke very positively."

"But there are things as to which a man may be very positive, and yet may be allowed to fail.
In the first place, how on earth did you get home?"

"Mr. Kennedy got me a pony,--Donald Bean's pony."

"You told him, then?"

"Yes; I told him why I was coming, and that I must be here. Then he took the trouble to come
all the way off the mountain to persuade Donald to lend me his pony. I must acknowledge that
Mr. Kennedy has conquered me at last."

"I am so glad of that," said Lady Laura. "I knew he would,--unless it were your own fault."

They went up the path by the brook, from bridge to bridge, till they found themselves out upon
the open mountain at the top. Phineas had resolved that he would not speak out his mind till
he found himself on that spot; that then he would ask her to sit down, and that while she was
so seated he would tell her everything. At the present moment he had on his head a Scotch cap
with a grouse's feather in it, and he was dressed in a velvet shooting-jacket and dark knickerbockers;
and was certainly, in this costume, as handsome a man as any woman would wish to see. And there
was, too, a look of breeding about him which had come to him, no doubt, from the royal Finns
of old, which ever served him in great stead. He was, indeed, only Phineas Finn, and was known
by the world to be no more; but he looked as though he might have been anybody,--a royal Finn
himself. And then he had that special grace of appearing to be altogether unconscious of his
own personal advantages. And I think that in truth he was barely conscious of them; that he
depended on them very little, if at all; that there was nothing of personal vanity in his composition.
He had never indulged in any hope that Lady Laura would accept him because he was a handsome man.

"After all that climbing," he said, "will you not sit down for a moment?" As he spoke to her
she looked at him and told herself that he was as handsome as a god. "Do sit down for one moment,"
he said. "I have something that I desire to say to you, and to say it here."

"I will," she said; "but I also have something to tell you, and will say it while I am yet
standing. Yesterday I accepted an offer of marriage from Mr. Kennedy."

"Then I am too late," said Phineas, and putting his hands into the pockets of his coat, he
turned his back upon her, and walked away across the mountain.

What a fool he had been to let her know his secret when her knowledge of it could be of no
service to him,--when her knowledge of it could only make him appear foolish in her eyes! But
for his life he could not have kept his secret to himself. Nor now could he bring himself to
utter a word of even decent civility. But he went on walking as though he could thus leave
her there, and never see her again. What an ass he had been in supposing that she cared for
him! What a fool to imagine that his poverty could stand a chance against the wealth of Loughlinter!
But why had she lured him on? How he wished that he were now grinding, hard at work in Mr.
Low's chambers, or sitting at home at Killaloe with the hand of that pretty little Irish girl
within his own!

Presently he heard a voice behind him,--calling him gently. Then he turned and found that she
was very near him. He himself had then been standing still for some moments, and she had followed
him. "Mr. Finn," she said.

"Well;--yes: what is it?" And turning round he made an attempt to smile.

"Will you not wish me joy, or say a word of congratulation? Had I not thought much of your
friendship, I should not have been so quick to tell you of my destiny. No one else has been
told, except papa."

"Of course I hope you will be happy. Of course I do. No wonder he lent me the pony!"

"You must forget all that."

"Forget what?"

"Well,--nothing. You need forget nothing," said Lady Laura, "for nothing has been said that
need be regretted. Only wish me joy, and all will be pleasant."

"Lady Laura, I do wish you joy, with all my heart,--but that will not make all things pleasant.
I came up here to ask you to be my wife."

"No;--no, no; do not say it."

"But I have said it, and will say it again. I, poor, penniless, plain simple fool that I am,
have been ass enough to love you, Lady Laura Standish; and I brought you up here to-day to
ask you to share with me--my nothingness. And this I have done on soil that is to be all your
own. Tell me that you regard me as a conceited fool,--as a bewildered idiot."

"I wish to regard you as a dear friend,--both of my own and of my husband," said she, offering
him her hand.

"Should I have had a chance, I wonder, if I had spoken a week since?"

"How can I answer such a question, Mr. Finn? Or, rather, I will, answer it fully. It is not
a week since we told each other, you to me and I to you, that we were both poor,--both without
other means than those which come to us from our fathers. You will make your way;--will make
it surely; but how at present could you marry any woman unless she had money of her own? For
me,--like so many other girls, it was necessary that I should stay at home or marry some one
rich enough to dispense with fortune in a wife. The man whom in all the world I think the best
has asked me to share everything with him;--and I have thought it wise to accept his offer."

"And I was fool enough to think that you loved me," said Phineas. To this she made no immediate
answer. "Yes, I was. I feel that I owe it you to tell you what a fool I have been. I did. I
thought you loved me. At least I thought that perhaps you loved me. It was like a child wanting
the moon;--was it not?"

"And why should I not have loved you?" she said slowly, laying her hand gently upon his arm.

"Why not? Because Loughlinter--"

"Stop, Mr. Finn; stop. Do not say to me any unkind word that I have not deserved, and that
would make a breach between us. I have accepted the owner of Loughlinter as my husband, because
I verily believe that I shall thus do my duty in that sphere of life to which it has pleased
God to call me. I have always liked him, and I will love him. For you,--may I trust myself
to speak openly to you?"

"You may trust me as against all others, except us two ourselves."

"For you, then, I will say also that I have always liked you since I knew you; that I have
loved you as a friend;--and could have loved you otherwise had not circumstances showed me
so plainly that it would be unwise."

"Oh, Lady Laura!"

"Listen a moment. And pray remember that what I say to you now must never be repeated to any
ears. No one knows it but my father, my brother, and Mr. Kennedy. Early in the spring I paid
my brother's debts. His affection to me is more than a return for what I have done for him.
But when I did this,--when I made up my mind to do it, I made up my mind also that I could
not allow myself the same freedom of choice which would otherwise have belonged to me. Will
that be sufficient, Mr. Finn?"

"How can I answer you, Lady Laura? Sufficient! And you are not angry with me for what I have said?"

"No, I am not angry. But it is understood, of course, that nothing of this shall ever be repeated,--even
among ourselves. Is that a bargain?"

"Oh, yes. I shall never speak of it again."

"And now you will wish me joy?"

"I have wished you joy, Lady Laura. And I will do so again. May you have every blessing which
the world can give you. You cannot expect me to be very jovial for awhile myself; but there
will be nobody to see my melancholy moods. I shall be hiding myself away in Ireland. When is
the marriage to be?"

"Nothing has been said of that. I shall be guided by him,--but there must, of course, be delay.
There will be settlements and I know not what. It may probably be in the spring,--or perhaps
the summer. I shall do just what my betters tell me to do."

Phineas had now seated himself on the exact stone on which he had wished her to sit when he
proposed to tell his own story, and was looking forth upon the lake. It seemed to him that
everything had been changed for him while he had been up there upon the mountain, and that
the change had been marvellous in its nature. When he had been coming up, there had been apparently
two alternatives before him: the glory of successful love,--which, indeed, had seemed to him
to be a most improbable result of the coming interview,--and the despair and utter banishment
attendant on disdainful rejection. But his position was far removed from either of these alternatives.
She had almost told him that she would have loved him had she not been poor,--that she was
beginning to love him and had quenched her love, because it had become impossible to her to
marry a poor man. In such circumstances he could not be angry with her,--he could not quarrel
with her; he could not do other than swear to himself that he would be her friend. And yet
he loved her better than ever;--and she was the promised wife of his rival! Why had not Donald
Bean's pony broken his neck?

"Shall we go down now?" she said.

"Oh, yes."

"You will not go on by the lake?"

"What is the use? It is all the same now. You will want to be back to receive him in from shooting."

"Not that, I think. He is above those little cares. But it will be as well we should go the
nearest way, as we have spent so much of our time here. I shall tell Mr. Kennedy that I have
told you,--if you do not mind."

"Tell him what you please," said Phineas.

"But I won't have it taken in that way, Mr. Finn. Your brusque want of courtesy to me I have
forgiven, but I shall expect you to make up for it by the alacrity of your congratulations
to him. I will not have you uncourteous to Mr. Kennedy."

"If I have been uncourteous I beg your pardon."

"You need not do that. We are old friends, and may take the liberty of speaking plainly to
each other;--but you will owe it to Mr. Kennedy to be gracious. Think of the pony."

They walked back to the house together, and as they went down the path very little was said.
Just as they were about to come out upon the open lawn, while they were still under cover of
the rocks and shrubs, Phineas stopped his companion by standing before her, and then he made
his farewell speech to her.

"I must say good-bye to you. I shall be away early in the morning."

"Good-bye, and God bless you," said Lady Laura.

"Give me your hand," said he. And she gave him her hand. "I don't suppose you know what it
is to love dearly."

"I hope I do."

"But to be in love! I believe you do not. And to miss your love! I think,--I am bound to think
that you have never been so tormented. It is very sore;--but I will do my best, like a man,
to get over it."

"Do, my friend, do. So small a trouble will never weigh heavily on shoulders such as yours."

"It will weigh very heavily, but I will struggle hard that it may not crush me. I have loved
you so dearly! As we are parting give me one kiss, that I may think of it and treasure it in
my memory!" What murmuring words she spoke to express her refusal of such a request, I will
not quote; but the kiss had been taken before the denial was completed, and then they walked
on in silence together,--and in peace, towards the house.

On the next morning six or seven men were going away, and there was an early breakfast. There
were none of the ladies there, but Mr. Kennedy, the host, was among his friends. A large drag
with four horses was there to take the travellers and their luggage to the station, and there
was naturally a good deal of noise at the front door as the preparations for the departure
were made. In the middle of them Mr. Kennedy took our hero aside. "Laura has told me," said
Mr. Kennedy, "that she has acquainted you with my good fortune."

"And I congratulate you most heartily," said Phineas, grasping the other's hand. "You are indeed
a lucky fellow."

"I feel myself to be so," said Mr. Kennedy. "Such a wife was all that was wanting to me, and
such a wife is very hard to find. Will you remember, Finn, that Loughlinter will never be so
full but what there will be a room for you, or so empty but what you will be made welcome?
I say this on Lady Laura's part and on my own."

Phineas, as he was being carried away to the railway station, could not keep himself from speculating
as to how much Kennedy knew of what had taken place during the walk up the Linter. Of one small
circumstance that had occurred, he felt quite sure that Mr. Kennedy knew nothing.

CHAPTER XVI

Phineas Finn Returns to Killaloe

Phineas Finn's first session of Parliament was over,--his first session with all its adventures.
When he got back to Mrs. Bunce's house,--for Mrs. Bunce received him for a night in spite of
her husband's advice to the contrary,--I am afraid he almost felt that Mrs. Bunce and her rooms
were beneath him. Of course he was very unhappy,--as wretched as a man can be; there were moments
in which he thought that it would hardly become him to live unless he could do something to
prevent the marriage of Lady Laura and Mr. Kennedy. But, nevertheless, he had his consolations.
These were reflections which had in them much of melancholy satisfaction. He had not been despised
by the woman to whom he had told his love. She had not shown him that she thought him to be
unworthy of her. She had not regarded his love as an offence. Indeed, she had almost told him
that prudence alone had forbidden her to return his passion. And he had kissed her, and had
afterwards parted from her as a dear friend. I do not know why there should have been a flavour
of exquisite joy in the midst of his agony as he thought of this;--but it was so. He would
never kiss her again. All future delights of that kind would belong to Mr. Kennedy, and he
had no real idea of interfering with that gentleman in the fruition of his privileges. But
still there was the kiss,--an eternal fact. And then, in all respects except that of his love,
his visit to Loughlinter had been pre-eminently successful. Mr. Monk had become his friend,
and had encouraged him to speak during the next session,--setting before him various models,
and prescribing for him a course of reading. Lord Brentford had become intimate with him. He
was on pleasant terms with Mr. Palliser and Mr. Gresham. And as for Mr. Kennedy,--he and Mr.
Kennedy were almost bosom friends. It seemed to him that he had quite surpassed the Ratlers,
Fitzgibbons, and Bonteens in that politico-social success which goes so far towards downright
political success, and which in itself is so pleasant. He had surpassed these men in spite
of their offices and their acquired positions, and could not but think that even Mr. Low, if
he knew it all, would confess that he had been right.

As to his bosom friendship with Mr. Kennedy, that of course troubled him. Ought he not to be
driving a poniard into Mr. Kennedy's heart? The conventions of life forbade that; and therefore
the bosom friendship was to be excused. If not an enemy to the death, then there could be no
reason why he should not be a bosom friend.

He went over to Ireland, staying but one night with Mrs. Bunce, and came down upon them at
Killaloe like a god out of the heavens. Even his father was well-nigh overwhelmed by admiration,
and his mother and sisters thought themselves only fit to minister to his pleasures. He had
learned, if he had learned nothing else, to look as though he were master of the circumstances
around him, and was entirely free from internal embarrassment. When his father spoke to him
about his legal studies, he did not exactly laugh at his father's ignorance, but he recapitulated
to his father so much of Mr. Monk's wisdom at second hand,--showing plainly that it was his
business to study the arts of speech and the technicalities of the House, and not to study
law,--that his father had nothing further to say. He had become a man of such dimensions that
an ordinary father could hardly dare to inquire into his proceedings; and as for an ordinary
mother,--such as Mrs. Finn certainly was,--she could do no more than look after her son's linen
with awe.

Mary Flood Jones,--the reader I hope will not quite have forgotten Mary Flood Jones,--was in
a great tremor when first she met the hero of Loughshane after returning from the honours of
his first session. She had been somewhat disappointed because the newspapers had not been full
of the speeches he had made in Parliament. And indeed the ladies of the Finn household had
all been ill at ease on this head. They could not imagine why Phineas had restrained himself
with so much philosophy. But Miss Flood Jones in discussing the matter with the Miss Finns
had never expressed the slightest doubt of his capacity or his judgment. And when tidings came,--the
tidings came in a letter from Phineas to his father,--that he did not intend to speak that
session, because speeches from a young member on his first session were thought to be inexpedient,
Miss Flood Jones and the Miss Finns were quite willing to accept the wisdom of this decision,
much as they might regret the effect of it. Mary, when she met her hero, hardly dared to look
him in the face, but she remembered accurately all the circumstances of her last interview
with him. Could it be that he wore that ringlet near his heart? Mary had received from Barbara
Finn certain hairs supposed to have come from the head of Phineas, and these she always wore
near her own. And moreover, since she had seen Phineas she had refused an offer of marriage
from Mr. Elias Bodkin,--had refused it almost ignominiously,--and when doing so had told herself
that she would never be false to Phineas Finn.

"We think it so good of you to come to see us again," she said.

"Good to come home to my own people?"

"Of course you might be staying with plenty of grandees if you liked it."

"No, indeed, Mary. It did happen by accident that I had to go to the house of a man whom perhaps
you would call a grandee, and to meet grandees there. But it was only for a few days, and I
am very glad to be taken in again here, I can assure you."

"You know how very glad we all are to have you."

"Are you glad to see me, Mary?"

"Very glad. Why should I not be glad, and Barbara the dearest friend I have in the world? Of
course she talks about you,--and that makes me think of you."

"If you knew, Mary, how often I think about you." Then Mary, who was very happy at hearing
such words, and who was walking in to dinner with him at the moment, could not refrain herself
from pressing his arm with her little fingers. She knew that Phineas in his position could
not marry at once; but she would wait for him,--oh, for ever, if he would only ask her. He
of course was a wicked traitor to tell her that he was wont to think of her. But Jove smiles
at lovers' perjuries;--and it is well that he should do so, as such perjuries can hardly be
avoided altogether in the difficult circumstances of a successful gentleman's life. Phineas
was a traitor, of course, but he was almost forced to be a traitor, by the simple fact that
Lady Laura Standish was in London, and Mary Flood Jones in Killaloe.

He remained for nearly five months at Killaloe, and I doubt whether his time was altogether
well spent. Some of the books recommended to him by Mr. Monk he probably did read, and was
often to be found encompassed by blue books. I fear that there was a grain of pretence about
his blue books and parliamentary papers, and that in these days he was, in a gentle way, something
of an impostor. "You must not be angry with me for not going to you," he said once to Mary's
mother when he had declined an invitation to drink tea; "but the fact is that my time is not
my own." "Pray don't make any apologies. We are quite aware that we have very little to offer,"
said Mrs. Flood Jones, who was not altogether happy about Mary, and who perhaps knew more about
members of Parliament and blue books than Phineas Finn had supposed. "Mary, you are a fool
to think of that man," the mother said to her daughter the next morning. "I don't think of
him, mamma; not particularly." "He is no better than anybody else that I can see, and he is
beginning to give himself airs," said Mrs. Flood Jones. Mary made no answer; but she went up
into her room and swore before a figure of the Virgin that she would be true to Phineas for
ever and ever, in spite of her mother, in spite of all the world,--in spite, should it be necessary,
even of himself.

About Christmas time there came a discussion between Phineas and his father about money. "I
hope you find you get on pretty well," said the doctor, who thought that he had been liberal.

"It's a tight fit," said Phineas,--who was less afraid of his father than he had been when
he last discussed these things.

"I had hoped it would have been ample," said the doctor.

"Don't think for a moment, sir, that I am complaining," said Phineas. "I know it is much more
than I have a right to expect."

The doctor began to make an inquiry within his own breast as to whether his son had a right
to expect anything;--whether the time had not come in which his son should be earning his own
bread. "I suppose," he said, after a pause, "there is no chance of your doing anything at the
bar now?"

"Not immediately. It is almost impossible to combine the two studies together." Mr. Low himself
was aware of that. "But you are not to suppose that I have given the profession up."

"I hope not,--after all the money it has cost us."

"By no means, sir. And all that I am doing now will, I trust, be of assistance to me when I
shall come back to work at the law. Of course it is on the cards that I may go into office,--and
if so, public business will become my profession."

"And be turned out with the Ministry!"

"Yes; that is true, sir. I must run my chance. If the worst comes to the worst, I hope I might
be able to secure some permanent place. I should think that I can hardly fail to do so. But
I trust I may never be driven to want it. I thought, however, that we had settled all this
before." Then Phineas assumed a look of injured innocence, as though his father was driving
him too hard.

"And in the mean time your money has been enough?" said the doctor, after a pause.

"I had intended to ask you to advance me a hundred pounds," said Phineas. "There were expenses
to which I was driven on first entering Parliament."

"A hundred pounds."

"If it be inconvenient, sir, I can do without it." He had not as yet paid for his gun, or for
that velvet coat in which he had been shooting, or, most probably, for the knickerbockers.
He knew he wanted the hundred pounds badly; but he felt ashamed of himself in asking for it.
If he were once in office,--though the office were but a sorry junior lordship,--he would repay
his father instantly.

"You shall have it, of course," said the doctor; "but do not let the necessity for asking for
more hundreds come oftener than you can help." Phineas said that he would not, and then there
was no further discourse about money. It need hardly be said that he told his father nothing
of that bill which he had endorsed for Laurence Fitzgibbon.

At last came the time which called him again to London and the glories of London life,--to
lobbies, and the clubs, and the gossip of men in office, and the chance of promotion for himself;
to the glare of the gas-lamps, the mock anger of rival debaters, and the prospect of the Speaker's
wig. During the idleness of the recess he had resolved at any rate upon this,--that a month
of the session should not have passed by before he had been seen upon his legs in the House,--had
been seen and heard. And many a time as he had wandered alone, with his gun, across the bogs
which lie on the other side of the Shannon from Killaloe, he had practised the sort of address
which he would make to the House. He would be short,--always short; and he would eschew all
action and gesticulation; Mr. Monk had been very urgent in his instructions to him on that
head; but he would be especially careful that no words should escape him which had not in them
some purpose. He might be wrong in his purpose, but purpose there should be. He had been twitted
more than once at Killaloe with his silence;--for it had been conceived by his fellow-townsmen
that he had been sent to Parliament on the special ground of his eloquence. They should twit
him no more on his next return. He would speak and would carry the House with him if a human
effort might prevail.

So he packed up his things, and started again for London in the beginning of February. "Good-bye,
Mary," he said with his sweetest smile. But on this occasion there was no kiss, and no culling
of locks. "I know he cannot help it," said Mary to herself. "It is his position. But whether
it be for good or evil, I will be true to him."

"I am afraid you are unhappy," Babara Finn said to her on the next morning.

"No; I am not unhappy,--not at all. I have a deal to make me happy and proud. I don't mean
to be a bit unhappy." Then she turned away and cried heartily, and Barbara Finn cried with
her for company.

CHAPTER XVII

Phineas Finn Returns to London

Phineas had received two letters during his recess at Killaloe from two women who admired him
much, which, as they were both short, shall be submitted to the reader. The first was as follows:--

   Saulsby, October 20, 186--.

   MY DEAR MR. FINN,

   I write a line to tell you that our marriage is to be
   hurried on as quickly as possible. Mr. Kennedy does not
   like to be absent from Parliament; nor will he be content
   to postpone the ceremony till the session be over. The day
   fixed is the 3rd of December, and we then go at once to
   Rome, and intend to be back in London by the opening of
   Parliament.

   Yours most sincerely,

   LAURA STANDISH.

   Our London address will be No. 52, Grosvenor Place.

To this he wrote an answer as short, expressing his ardent wishes that those winter hymeneals
might produce nothing but happiness, and saying that he would not be in town many days before
he knocked at the door of No. 52, Grosvenor Place.

And the second letter was as follows:--

   Great Marlborough Street, December, 186--.

   DEAR AND HONOURED SIR,

   Bunce is getting ever so anxious about the rooms, and
   says as how he has a young Equity draftsman and wife and
   baby as would take the whole house, and all because Miss
   Pouncefoot said a word about her port wine, which any lady
   of her age might say in her tantrums, and mean nothing
   after all. Me and Miss Pouncefoot's knowed each other for
   seven years, and what's a word or two as isn't meant after
   that? But, honoured sir, it's not about that as I write
   to trouble you, but to ask if I may say for certain that
   you'll take the rooms again in February. It's easy to
   let them for the month after Christmas, because of the
   pantomimes. Only say at once, because Bunce is nagging
   me day after day. I don't want nobody's wife and baby to
   have to do for, and 'd sooner have a Parliament gent like
   yourself than any one else.

   Yours umbly and respectful,

   JANE BUNCE.

To this he replied that he would certainly come back to the rooms in Great Marlborough Street,
should he be lucky enough to find them vacant, and he expressed his willingness to take them
on and from the 1st of February. And on the 3rd of February he found himself in the old quarters,
Mrs. Bunce having contrived, with much conjugal adroitness, both to keep Miss Pouncefoot and
to stave off the Equity draftsman's wife and baby. Bunce, however, received Phineas very coldly,
and told his wife the same evening that as far as he could see their lodger would never turn
up to be a trump in the matter of the ballot. "If he means well, why did he go and stay with
them lords down in Scotland? I knows all about it. I knows a man when I sees him. Mr. Low,
who's looking out to be a Tory judge some of these days, is a deal better;--because he knows
what he's after."

Immediately on his return to town, Phineas found himself summoned to a political meeting at
Mr. Mildmay's house in St. James's Square. "We're going to begin in earnest this time," Barrington
Erle said to him at the club.

"I am glad of that," said Phineas.

"I suppose you heard all about it down at Loughlinter?"

Now, in truth, Phineas had heard very little of any settled plan down at Loughlinter. He had
played a game of chess with Mr. Gresham, and had shot a stag with Mr. Palliser, and had discussed
sheep with Lord Brentford, but had hardly heard a word about politics from any one of those
influential gentlemen. From Mr. Monk he had heard much of a coming Reform Bill; but his communications
with Mr. Monk had rather been private discussions,--in which he had learned Mr. Monk's own
views on certain points,--than revelations on the intention of the party to which Mr. Monk
belonged. "I heard of nothing settled," said Phineas; "but I suppose we are to have a Reform Bill."

"That is a matter of course."

"And I suppose we are not to touch the question of ballot."

"That's the difficulty," said Barrington Erle. "But of course we shan't touch it as long as
Mr. Mildmay is in the Cabinet. He will never consent to the ballot as First Minister of the Crown."

"Nor would Gresham, or Palliser," said Phineas, who did not choose to bring forward his greatest
gun at first.

"I don't know about Gresham. It is impossible to say what Gresham might bring himself to do.
Gresham is a man who may go any lengths before he has done. Planty Pall,"--for such was the
name by which Mr. Plantagenet Palliser was ordinarily known among his friends,--"would of course
go with Mr. Mildmay and the Duke."

"And Monk is opposed to the ballot," said Phineas.

"Ah, that's the question. No doubt he has assented to the proposition of a measure without
the ballot; but if there should come a row, and men like Turnbull demand it, and the London
mob kick up a shindy, I don't know how far Monk would be steady."

"Whatever he says, he'll stick to."

"He is your leader, then?" asked Barrington.

"I don't know that I have a leader. Mr. Mildmay leads our side; and if anybody leads me, he
does. But I have great faith in Mr. Monk."

"There's one who would go for the ballot to-morrow, if it were brought forward stoutly," said
Barrington Erle to Mr. Ratler a few minutes afterwards, pointing to Phineas as he spoke.

"I don't think much of that young man," said Ratler.

Mr. Bonteen and Mr. Ratler had put their heads together during that last evening at Loughlinter,
and had agreed that they did not think much of Phineas Finn. Why did Mr. Kennedy go down off
the mountain to get him a pony? And why did Mr. Gresham play chess with him? Mr. Ratler and
Mr. Bonteen may have been right in making up their minds to think but little of Phineas Finn,
but Barrington Erle had been quite wrong when he had said that Phineas would "go for the ballot"
to-morrow. Phineas had made up his mind very strongly that he would always oppose the ballot.
That he would hold the same opinion throughout his life, no one should pretend to say; but
in his present mood, and under the tuition which he had received from Mr. Monk, he was prepared
to demonstrate, out of the House and in it, that the ballot was, as a political measure, unmanly,
ineffective, and enervating. Enervating had been a great word with Mr. Monk, and Phineas had
clung to it with admiration.

The meeting took place at Mr. Mildmay's on the third day of the session. Phineas had of course
heard of such meetings before, but had never attended one. Indeed, there had been no such gathering
when Mr. Mildmay's party came into power early in the last session. Mr. Mildmay and his men
had then made their effort in turning out their opponents, and had been well pleased to rest
awhile upon their oars. Now, however, they must go again to work, and therefore the liberal
party was collected at Mr. Mildmay's house, in order that the liberal party might be told what
it was that Mr. Mildmay and his Cabinet intended to do.

Phineas Finn was quite in the dark as to what would be the nature of the performance on this
occasion, and entertained some idea that every gentleman present would be called upon to express
individually his assent or dissent in regard to the measure proposed. He walked to St. James's
Square with Laurence Fitzgibbon; but even with Fitzgibbon was ashamed to show his ignorance
by asking questions. "After all," said Fitzgibbon, "this kind of thing means nothing. I know
as well as possible, and so do you, what Mr. Mildmay will say,--and then Gresham will say a
few words; and then Turnbull will make a murmur, and then we shall all assent,--to anything
or to nothing;--and then it will be over." Still Phineas did not understand whether the assent
required would or would not be an individual personal assent. When the affair was over he found
that he was disappointed, and that he might almost as well have stayed away from the meeting,--except
that he had attended at Mr. Mildmay's bidding, and had given a silent adhesion to Mr. Mildmay's
plan of reform for that session. Laurence Fitzgibbon had been very nearly correct in his description
of what would occur. Mr. Mildmay made a long speech. Mr. Turnbull, the great Radical of the
day,--the man who was supposed to represent what many called the Manchester school of politics,--asked
half a dozen questions. In answer to these Mr. Gresham made a short speech. Then Mr. Mildmay
made another speech, and then all was over. The gist of the whole thing was, that there should
be a Reform Bill,--very generous in its enlargement of the franchise,--but no ballot. Mr. Turnbull
expressed his doubt whether this would be satisfactory to the country; but even Mr. Turnbull
was soft in his tone and complaisant in his manner. As there was no reporter present,--that
plan of turning private meetings at gentlemen's houses into public assemblies not having been
as yet adopted,--there could be no need for energy or violence. They went to Mr. Mildmay's
house to hear Mr. Mildmay's plan,--and they heard it.

Two days after this Phineas was to dine with Mr. Monk. Mr. Monk had asked him in the lobby
of the House. "I don't give dinner parties," he said, "but I should like you to come and meet
Mr. Turnbull." Phineas accepted the invitation as a matter of course. There were many who said
that Mr. Turnbull was the greatest man in the nation, and that the nation could be saved only
by a direct obedience to Mr. Turnbull's instructions. Others said that Mr. Turnbull was a demagogue
and at heart a rebel; that he was un-English, false and very dangerous. Phineas was rather
inclined to believe the latter statement; and as danger and dangerous men are always more attractive
than safety and safe men, he was glad to have an opportunity of meeting Mr. Turnbull at dinner.

In the meantime he went to call on Lady Laura, whom he had not seen since the last evening
which he spent in her company at Loughlinter,--whom, when he was last speaking to her, he had
kissed close beneath the falls of the Linter. He found her at home, and with her was her husband.
"Here is a Darby and Joan meeting, is it not?" she said, getting up to welcome him. He had
seen Mr. Kennedy before, and had been standing close to him during the meeting at Mr. Mildmay's.

"I am very glad to find you both together."

"But Robert is going away this instant," said Lady Laura. "Has he told you of our adventures
at Rome?"

"Not a word."

"Then I must tell you;--but not now. The dear old Pope was so civil to us. I came to think
it quite a pity that he should be in trouble."

"I must be off," said the husband, getting up. "But I shall meet you at dinner, I believe."

"Do you dine at Mr. Monk's?"

"Yes, and am asked expressly to hear Turnbull make a convert of you. There are only to be us
four. Au revoir." Then Mr. Kennedy went, and Phineas found himself alone with Lady Laura. He
hardly knew how to address her, and remained silent. He had not prepared himself for the interview
as he ought to have done, and felt himself to be awkward. She evidently expected him to speak,
and for a few seconds sat waiting for what he might say.

At last she found that it was incumbent on her to begin. "Were you surprised at our suddenness
when you got my note?"

"A little. You had spoken of waiting."

"I had never imagined that he would have been impetuous. And he seems to think that even the
business of getting himself married would not justify him staying away from Parliament. He
is a rigid martinet in all matters of duty."

"I did not wonder that he should be in a hurry, but that you should submit."

"I told you that I should do just what the wise people told me. I asked papa, and he said that
it would be better. So the lawyers were driven out of their minds, and the milliners out of
their bodies, and the thing was done."

"Who was there at the marriage?"

"Oswald was not there. That I know is what you mean to ask. Papa said that he might come if
he pleased. Oswald stipulated that he should be received as a son. Then my father spoke the
hardest word that ever fell from his mouth."

"What did he say?"

"I will not repeat it,--not altogether. But he said that Oswald was not entitled to a son's
treatment. He was very sore about my money, because Robert was so generous as to his settlement.
So the breach between them is as wide as ever."

"And where is Chiltern now?" said Phineas.

"Down in Northamptonshire, staying at some inn from whence he hunts. He tells me that he is
quite alone,--that he never dines out, never has any one to dine with him, that he hunts five
or six days a week,--and reads at night."

"That is not a bad sort of life."

"Not if the reading is any good. But I cannot bear that he should be so solitary. And if he
breaks down in it, then his companions will not be fit for him. Do you ever hunt?"

"Oh yes,--at home in county Clare. All Irishmen hunt."

"I wish you would go down to him and see him. He would be delighted to have you."

Phineas thought over the proposition before he answered it, and then made the reply that he
had made once before. "I would do so, Lady Laura,--but that I have no money for hunting in
England."

"Alas, alas!" said she, smiling. "How that hits one on every side!"

"I might manage it,--for a couple of days,--in March."

"Do not do what you think you ought not to do," said Lady Laura.

"No; certainly. But I should like it, and if I can I will."

"He could mount you, I have no doubt. He has no other expense now, and keeps a stable full
of horses. I think he has seven or eight. And now tell me, Mr. Finn; when are you going to
charm the House? Or is it your first intention to strike terror?"

He blushed,--he knew that he blushed as he answered. "Oh, I suppose I shall make some sort
of attempt before long. I can't bear the idea of being a bore."

"I think you ought to speak, Mr. Finn."

"I do not know about that, but I certainly mean to try. There will be lots of opportunities
about the new Reform Bill. Of course you know that Mr. Mildmay is going to bring it in at once.
You hear all that from Mr. Kennedy."

"And papa has told me. I still see papa almost every day. You must call upon him. Mind you
do." Phineas said that he certainly would. "Papa is very lonely now, and I sometimes feel that
I have been almost cruel in deserting him. And I think that he has a horror of the house,--especially
later in the year,--always fancying that he will meet Oswald. I am so unhappy about it all,
Mr. Finn."

"Why doesn't your brother marry?" said Phineas, knowing nothing as yet of Lord Chiltern and
Violet Effingham. "If he were to marry well, that would bring your father round."

"Yes,--it would."

"And why should he not?"

Lady Laura paused before she answered; and then she told the whole story. "He is violently
in love, and the girl he loves has refused him twice."

"Is it with Miss Effingham?" asked Phineas, guessing the truth at once, and remembering what
Miss Effingham had said to him when riding in the wood.

"Yes;--with Violet Effingham; my father's pet, his favourite, whom he loves next to myself,--almost
as well as myself; whom he would really welcome as a daughter. He would gladly make her mistress
of his house, and of Saulsby. Everything would then go smoothly."

"But she does not like Lord Chiltern?"

"I believe she loves him in her heart; but she is afraid of him. As she says herself, a girl
is bound to be so careful of herself. With all her seeming frolic, Violet Effingham is very wise."

Phineas, though not conscious of anything akin to jealousy, was annoyed at the revelation made
to him. Since he had heard that Lord Chiltern was in love with Miss Effingham, he did not like
Lord Chiltern quite as well as he had done before. He himself had simply admired Miss Effingham,
and had taken pleasure in her society; but, though this had been all, he did not like to hear
of another man wanting to marry her, and he was almost angry with Lady Laura for saying that
she believed Miss Effingham loved her brother. If Miss Effingham had twice refused Lord Chiltern,
that ought to have been sufficient. It was not that Phineas was in love with Miss Effingham
himself. As he was still violently in love with Lady Laura, any other love was of course impossible;
but, nevertheless, there was something offensive to him in the story as it had been told. "If
it be wisdom on her part," said he, answering Lady Laura's last words, "you cannot find fault
with her for her decision."

"I find no fault;--but I think my brother would make her happy."

Lady Laura, when she was left alone, at once reverted to the tone in which Phineas Finn had
answered her remarks about Miss Effingham. Phineas was very ill able to conceal his thoughts,
and wore his heart almost upon his sleeve. "Can it be possible that he cares for her himself?"
That was the nature of Lady Laura's first question to herself upon the matter. And in asking
herself that question, she thought nothing of the disparity in rank or fortune between Phineas
Finn and Violet Effingham. Nor did it occur to her as at all improbable that Violet might accept
the love of him who had so lately been her own lover. But the idea grated against her wishes
on two sides. She was most anxious that Violet should ultimately become her brother's wife,--and
she could not be pleased that Phineas should be able to love any woman.

I must beg my readers not to be carried away by those last words into any erroneous conclusion.
They must not suppose that Lady Laura Kennedy, the lately married bride, indulged a guilty
passion for the young man who had loved her. Though she had probably thought often of Phineas
Finn since her marriage, her thoughts had never been of a nature to disturb her rest. It had
never occurred to her even to think that she regarded him with any feeling that was an offence
to her husband. She would have hated herself had any such idea presented itself to her mind.
She prided herself on being a pure high-principled woman, who had kept so strong a guard upon
herself as to be nearly free from the dangers of those rocks upon which other women made shipwreck
of their happiness. She took pride in this, and would then blame herself for her own pride.
But though she so blamed herself, it never occurred to her to think that to her there might
be danger of such shipwreck. She had put away from herself the idea of love when she had first
perceived that Phineas had regarded her with more than friendship, and had accepted Mr. Kennedy's
offer with an assured conviction that by doing so she was acting best for her own happiness
and for that of all those concerned. She had felt the romance of the position to be sweet when
Phineas had stood with her at the top of the falls of the Linter, and had told her of the hopes
which he had dared to indulge. And when at the bottom of the falls he had presumed to take
her in his arms, she had forgiven him without difficulty to herself, telling herself that that
would be the alpha and the omega of the romance of her life. She had not felt herself bound
to tell Mr. Kennedy of what had occurred,--but she had felt that he could hardly have been
angry even had he been told. And she had often thought of her lover since, and of his love,--telling
herself that she too had once had a lover, never regarding her husband in that light; but her
thoughts had not frightened her as guilty thoughts will do. There had come a romance which
had been pleasant, and it was gone. It had been soon banished,--but it had left to her a sweet
flavour, of which she loved to taste the sweetness though she knew that it was gone. And the
man should be her friend, but especially her husband's friend. It should be her care to see
that his life was successful,--and especially her husband's care. It was a great delight to
her to know that her husband liked the man. And the man would marry, and the man's wife should
be her friend. All this had been very pure and very pleasant. Now an idea had flitted across
her brain that the man was in love with some one else,--and she did not like it!

But she did not therefore become afraid of herself, or in the least realise at once the danger
of her own position. Her immediate glance at the matter did not go beyond the falseness of
men. If it were so, as she suspected,--if Phineas had in truth transferred his affections to
Violet Effingham, of how little value was the love of such a man! It did not occur to her at
this moment that she also had transferred hers to Robert Kennedy, or that, if not, she had
done worse. But she did remember that in the autumn this young Phoebus among men had turned
his back upon her out upon the mountain that he might hide from her the agony of his heart
when he learned that she was to be the wife of another man; and that now, before the winter
was over, he could not hide from her the fact that his heart was elsewhere! And then she speculated,
and counted up facts, and satisfied herself that Phineas could not even have seen Violet Effingham
since they two had stood together upon the mountain. How false are men!--how false and how
weak of heart!

"Chiltern and Violet Effingham!" said Phineas to himself, as he walked away from Grosvenor
Place. "Is it fair that she should be sacrificed because she is rich, and because she is so
winning and so fascinating that Lord Brentford would receive even his son for the sake of receiving
also such a daughter-in-law?" Phineas also liked Lord Chiltern; had seen or fancied that he
had seen fine things in him; had looked forward to his regeneration, hoping, perhaps, that
he might have some hand in the good work. But he did not recognise the propriety of sacrificing
Violet Effingham even for work so good as this. If Miss Effingham had refused Lord Chiltern
twice, surely that ought to be sufficient. It did not occur to him that the love of such a
girl as Violet would be a great treasure--to himself. As regarded himself, he was still in
love,--hopelessly in love, with Lady Laura Kennedy!

CHAPTER XVIII

Mr. Turnbull

It was a Wednesday evening and there was no House;--and at seven o'clock Phineas was at Mr.
Monk's hall door. He was the first of the guests, and he found Mr. Monk alone in the dining-room.
"I am doing butler," said Mr. Monk, who had a brace of decanters in his hands, which he proceeded
to put down in the neighbourhood of the fire. "But I have finished, and now we will go up-stairs
to receive the two great men properly."

"I beg your pardon for coming too early," said Finn.

"Not a minute too early. Seven is seven, and it is I who am too late. But, Lord bless you,
you don't think I'm ashamed of being found in the act of decanting my own wine! I remember
Lord Palmerston saying before some committee about salaries, five or six years ago now, I daresay,
that it wouldn't do for an English Minister to have his hall door opened by a maid-servant.
Now, I'm an English Minister, and I've got nobody but a maid-servant to open my hall door,
and I'm obliged to look after my own wine. I wonder whether it's improper? I shouldn't like
to be the means of injuring the British Constitution."

"Perhaps if you resign soon, and if nobody follows your example, grave evil results may be
avoided."

"I sincerely hope so, for I do love the British Constitution; and I love also the respect in
which members of the English Cabinet are held. Now Turnbull, who will be here in a moment,
hates it all; but he is a rich man, and has more powdered footmen hanging about his house than
ever Lord Palmerston had himself."

"He is still in business."

"Oh yes;--and makes his thirty thousand a year. Here he is. How are you, Turnbull? We were
talking about my maid-servant. I hope she opened the door for you properly."

"Certainly,--as far as I perceived," said Mr. Turnbull, who was better at a speech than a joke.
"A very respectable young woman I should say."

"There is not one more so in all London," said Mr. Monk; "but Finn seems to think that I ought
to have a man in livery."

"It is a matter of perfect indifference to me," said Mr. Turnbull. "I am one of those who never
think of such things."

"Nor I either," said Mr. Monk. Then the laird of Loughlinter was announced, and they all went
down to dinner.

Mr. Turnbull was a good-looking robust man about sixty, with long grey hair and a red complexion,
with hard eyes, a well-cut nose, and full lips. He was nearly six feet high, stood quite upright,
and always wore a black swallow-tail coat, black trousers, and a black silk waistcoat. In the
House, at least, he was always so dressed, and at dinner tables. What difference there might
be in his costume when at home at Staleybridge few of those who saw him in London had the means
of knowing. There was nothing in his face to indicate special talent. No one looking at him
would take him to be a fool; but there was none of the fire of genius in his eye, nor was there
in the lines of his mouth any of that play of thought or fancy which is generally to be found
in the faces of men and women who have made themselves great. Mr. Turnbull had certainly made
himself great, and could hardly have done so without force of intellect. He was one of the
most popular, if not the most popular politician in the country. Poor men believed in him,
thinking that he was their most honest public friend; and men who were not poor believed in
his power, thinking that his counsels must surely prevail. He had obtained the ear of the House
and the favour of the reporters, and opened his voice at no public dinner, on no public platform,
without a conviction that the words spoken by him would be read by thousands. The first necessity
for good speaking is a large audience; and of this advantage Mr. Turnbull had made himself
sure. And yet it could hardly be said that he was a great orator. He was gifted with a powerful
voice, with strong, and I may, perhaps, call them broad convictions, with perfect self-reliance,
with almost unlimited powers of endurance, with hot ambition, with no keen scruples, and with
a moral skin of great thickness. Nothing said against him pained him, no attacks wounded him,
no raillery touched him in the least. There was not a sore spot about him, and probably his
first thoughts on waking every morning told him that he, at least, was totus teres atque rotundus.
He was, of course, a thorough Radical,--and so was Mr. Monk. But Mr. Monk's first waking thoughts
were probably exactly the reverse of those of his friend. Mr. Monk was a much hotter man in
debate than Mr. Turnbull;--but Mr. Monk was ever doubting of himself, and never doubted of
himself so much as when he had been most violent, and also most effective, in debate. When
Mr. Monk jeered at himself for being a Cabinet Minister and keeping no attendant grander than
a parlour-maid, there was a substratum of self-doubt under the joke.

Mr. Turnbull was certainly a great Radical, and as such enjoyed a great reputation. I do not
think that high office in the State had ever been offered to him; but things had been said
which justified him, or seemed to himself to justify him, in declaring that in no possible
circumstances would he serve the Crown. "I serve the people," he had said, "and much as I respect
the servants of the Crown, I think that my own office is the higher." He had been greatly called
to task for this speech; and Mr. Mildmay, the present Premier, had asked him whether he did
not recognise the so-called servants of the Crown as the most hard-worked and truest servants
of the people. The House and the press had supported Mr. Mildmay, but to all that Mr. Turnbull
was quite indifferent; and when an assertion made by him before three or four thousand persons
at Manchester, to the effect that he,--he specially,--was the friend and servant of the people,
was received with acclamation, he felt quite satisfied that he had gained his point. Progressive
reform in the franchise, of which manhood suffrage should be the acknowledged and not far distant
end, equal electoral districts, ballot, tenant right for England as well as Ireland, reduction
of the standing army till there should be no standing army to reduce, utter disregard of all
political movements in Europe, an almost idolatrous admiration for all political movements
in America, free trade in everything except malt, and an absolute extinction of a State Church,--these
were among the principal articles in Mr. Turnbull's political catalogue. And I think that when
once he had learned the art of arranging his words as he stood upon his legs, and had so mastered
his voice as to have obtained the ear of the House, the work of his life was not difficult.
Having nothing to construct, he could always deal with generalities. Being free from responsibility,
he was not called upon either to study details or to master even great facts. It was his business
to inveigh against existing evils, and perhaps there is no easier business when once the privilege
of an audience has been attained. It was his work to cut down forest-trees, and he had nothing
to do with the subsequent cultivation of the land. Mr. Monk had once told Phineas Finn how
great were the charms of that inaccuracy which was permitted to the Opposition. Mr. Turnbull
no doubt enjoyed these charms to the full, though he would sooner have put a padlock on his
mouth for a month than have owned as much. Upon the whole, Mr. Turnbull was no doubt right
in resolving that he would not take office, though some reticence on that subject might have
been more becoming to him.

The conversation at dinner, though it was altogether on political subjects, had in it nothing
of special interest as long as the girl was there to change the plates; but when she was gone,
and the door was closed, it gradually opened out, and there came on to be a pleasant sparring
match between the two great Radicals,--the Radical who had joined himself to the governing
powers, and the Radical who stood aloof. Mr. Kennedy barely said a word now and then, and Phineas
was almost as silent as Mr. Kennedy. He had come there to hear some such discussion, and was
quite willing to listen while guns of such great calibre were being fired off for his amusement.

"I think Mr. Mildmay is making a great step forward," said Mr. Turnbull.

"I think he is," said Mr. Monk.

"I did not believe that he would ever live to go so far. It will hardly suffice even for this
year; but still coming from him, it is a great deal. It only shows how far a man may be made
to go, if only the proper force be applied. After all, it matters very little who are the Ministers."

"That is what I have always declared," said Mr. Monk.

"Very little indeed. We don't mind whether it be Lord de Terrier, or Mr. Mildmay, or Mr. Gresham,
or you yourself, if you choose to get yourself made First Lord of the Treasury."

"I have no such ambition, Turnbull."

"I should have thought you had. If I went in for that kind of thing myself, I should like to
go to the top of the ladder. I should feel that if I could do any good at all by becoming a
Minister, I could only do it by becoming first Minister."

"You wouldn't doubt your own fitness for such a position?"

"I doubt my fitness for the position of any Minister," said Mr. Turnbull.

"You mean that on other grounds," said Mr. Kennedy.

"I mean it on every ground," said Mr. Turnbull, rising on his legs and standing with his back
to the fire. "Of course I am not fit to have diplomatic intercourse with men who would come
to me simply with the desire of deceiving me. Of course I am unfit to deal with members of
Parliament who would flock around me because they wanted places. Of course I am unfit to answer
every man's question so as to give no information to any one."

"Could you not answer them so as to give information?" said Mr. Kennedy.

But Mr. Turnbull was so intent on his speech that it may be doubted whether he heard this interruption.
He took no notice of it as he went on. "Of course I am unfit to maintain the proprieties of
a seeming confidence between a Crown all-powerless and a people all-powerful. No man recognises
his own unfitness for such work more clearly than I do, Mr. Monk. But if I took in hand such
work at all, I should like to be the leader, and not the led. Tell us fairly, now, what are
your convictions worth in Mr. Mildmay's Cabinet?"

"That is a question which a man may hardly answer himself," said Mr. Monk.

"It is a question which a man should at least answer for himself before he consents to sit
there," said Mr. Turnbull, in a tone of voice which was almost angry.

"And what reason have you for supposing that I have omitted that duty?" said Mr. Monk.

"Simply this,--that I cannot reconcile your known opinions with the practices of your colleagues."

"I will not tell you what my convictions may be worth in Mr. Mildmay's Cabinet. I will not
take upon myself to say that they are worth the chair on which I sit when I am there. But I
will tell you what my aspirations were when I consented to fill that chair, and you shall judge
of their worth. I thought that they might possibly leaven the batch of bread which we have
to bake,--giving to the whole batch more of the flavour of reform than it would have possessed
had I absented myself. I thought that when I was asked to join Mr. Mildmay and Mr. Gresham,
the very fact of that request indicated liberal progress, and that if I refused the request
I should be declining to assist in good work."

"You could have supported them, if anything were proposed worthy of support," said Mr. Turnbull.

"Yes; but I could not have been so effective in taking care that some measure be proposed worthy
of support as I may possibly be now. I thought a good deal about it, and I believe that my
decision was right."

"I am sure you were right," said Mr. Kennedy.

"There can be no juster object of ambition than a seat in the Cabinet," said Phineas.

"Sir, I must dispute that," said Mr. Turnbull, turning round upon our hero. "I regard the position
of our high Ministers as most respectable."

"Thank you for so much," said Mr. Monk. But the orator went on again, regardless of the interruption:--

"The position of gentlemen in inferior offices,--of gentlemen who attend rather to the nods
and winks of their superiors in Downing Street than to the interest of their constituents,--I
do not regard as being highly respectable."

"A man cannot begin at the top," said Phineas.

"Our friend Mr. Monk has begun at what you are pleased to call the top," said Mr. Turnbull.
"But I will not profess to think that even he has raised himself by going into office. To be
an independent representative of a really popular commercial constituency is, in my estimation,
the highest object of an Englishman's ambition."

"But why commercial, Mr. Turnbull?" said Mr. Kennedy.

"Because the commercial constituencies really do elect their own members in accordance with
their own judgments, whereas the counties and the small towns are coerced either by individuals
or by a combination of aristocratic influences."

"And yet," said Mr. Kennedy, "there are not half a dozen Conservatives returned by all the
counties in Scotland."

"Scotland is very much to be honoured," said Mr. Turnbull.

Mr. Kennedy was the first to take his departure, and Mr. Turnbull followed him very quickly.
Phineas got up to go at the same time, but stayed at his host's request, and sat for awhile
smoking a cigar.

"Turnbull is a wonderful man," said Mr. Monk.

"Does he not domineer too much?"

"His fault is not arrogance, so much as ignorance that there is, or should be, a difference
between public and private life. In the House of Commons a man in Mr. Turnbull's position must
speak with dictatorial assurance. He is always addressing, not the House only, but the country
at large, and the country will not believe in him unless he believe in himself. But he forgets
that he is not always addressing the country at large. I wonder what sort of a time Mrs. Turnbull
and the little Turnbulls have of it?"

Phineas, as he went home, made up his mind that Mrs. Turnbull and the little Turnbulls must
probably have a bad time of it.

CHAPTER XIX

Lord Chiltern Rides His Horse Bonebreaker

It was known that whatever might be the details of Mr. Mildmay's bill, the ballot would not
form a part of it; and as there was a strong party in the House of Commons, and a very numerous
party out of it, who were desirous that voting by ballot should be made a part of the electoral
law, it was decided that an independent motion should be brought on in anticipation of Mr.
Mildmay's bill. The arrangement was probably one of Mr. Mildmay's own making; so that he might
be hampered by no opposition on that subject by his own followers if,--as he did not doubt,--the
motion should be lost. It was expected that the debate would not last over one night, and Phineas
resolved that he would make his maiden speech on this occasion. He had very strong opinions
as to the inefficacy of the ballot for any good purposes, and thought that he might be able
to strike out from his convictions some sparks of that fire which used to be so plentiful with
him at the old debating clubs. But even at breakfast that morning his heart began to beat quickly
at the idea of having to stand on his legs before so critical an audience.

He knew that it would be well that he should if possible get the subject off his mind during
the day, and therefore went out among the people who certainly would not talk to him about
the ballot. He sat for nearly an hour in the morning with Mr. Low, and did not even tell Mr.
Low that it was his intention to speak on that day. Then he made one or two other calls, and
at about three went up to Portman Square to look for Lord Chiltern. It was now nearly the end
of February, and Phineas had often seen Lady Laura. He had not seen her brother, but had learned
from his sister that he had been driven up to London by the frost, He was told by the porter
at Lord Brentford's that Lord Chiltern was in the house, and as he was passing through the
hall he met Lord Brentford himself. He was thus driven to speak, and felt himself called upon
to explain why he was there. "I am come to see Lord Chiltern," he said.

"Is Lord Chiltern in the house?" said the Earl, turning to the servant.

"Yes, my lord; his lordship arrived last night."

"You will find him upstairs, I suppose," said the Earl. "For myself I know nothing of him."
He spoke in an angry tone, as though he resented the fact that any one should come to his house
to call upon his son; and turned his back quickly upon Phineas. But he thought better of it
before he reached the front door, and turned again. "By-the-bye," said he,  "what majority
shall we have to-night, Finn?"

"Pretty nearly as many as you please to name, my lord," said Phineas.

"Well;--yes; I suppose we are tolerably safe. You ought to speak upon it."

"Perhaps I may," said Phineas, feeling that he blushed as he spoke.

"Do," said the Earl. "Do. If you see Lord Chiltern will you tell him from me that I should
be glad to see him before he leaves London. I shall be at home till noon to-morrow." Phineas,
much astonished at the commission given to him, of course said that he would do as he was desired,
and then passed on to Lord Chiltern's apartments.

He found his friend standing in the middle of the room, without coat and waistcoat, with a
pair of dumb-bells in his hands. "When there's no hunting I'm driven to this kind of thing,"
said Lord Chiltern.

"I suppose it's good exercise," said Phineas.

"And it gives me something to do. When I'm in London I feel like a gipsy in church, till the
time comes for prowling out at night. I've no occupation for my days whatever, and no place
to which I can take myself. I can't stand in a club window as some men do, and I should disgrace
any decent club if I did stand there. I belong to the Travellers, but I doubt whether the porter
would let me go in."

"I think you pique yourself on being more of an outer Bohemian than you are," said Phineas.

"I pique myself on this, that whether Bohemian or not, I will go nowhere that I am not wanted.
Though,--for the matter of that, I suppose I'm not wanted here." Then Phineas gave him the
message from his father. "He wishes to see me to-morrow morning?" continued Lord Chiltern.
"Let him send me word what it is he has to say to me. I do not choose to be insulted by him,
though he is my father."

"I would certainly go, if I were you."

"I doubt it very much, if all the circumstances were the same. Let him tell me what he wants."

"Of course I cannot ask him, Chiltern."

"I know what he wants very well. Laura has been interfering and doing no good. You know Violet
Effingham?"

"Yes; I know her," said Phineas, much surprised.

"They want her to marry me."

"And you do not wish to marry her?"

"I did not say that. But do you think that such a girl as Miss Effingham would marry such a
man as I am? She would be much more likely to take you. By George, she would! Do you know that
she has three thousand a year of her own?"

"I know that she has money."

"That's about the tune of it. I would take her without a shilling to-morrow, if she would have
me,--because I like her. She is the only girl I ever did like. But what is the use of my liking
her? They have painted me so black among them, especially my father, that no decent girl would
think of marrying me."

"Your father can't be angry with you if you do your best to comply with his wishes."

"I don't care a straw whether he be angry or not. He allows me eight hundred a year, and he
knows that if he stopped it I should go to the Jews the next day. I could not help myself.
He can't leave an acre away from me, and yet he won't join me in raising money for the sake
of paying Laura her fortune."

"Lady Laura can hardly want money now."

"That detestable prig whom she has chosen to marry, and whom I hate with all my heart, is richer
than ever Croesus was; but nevertheless Laura ought to have her own money. She shall have it
some day."

"I would see Lord Brentford, if I were you."

"I will think about it. Now tell me about coming down to Willingford. Laura says you will come
some day in March. I can mount you for a couple of days and should be delighted to have you.
My horses all pull like the mischief, and rush like devils, and want a deal of riding; but
an Irishman likes that."

"I do not dislike it particularly."

"I like it. I prefer to have something to do on horseback. When a man tells me that a horse
is an armchair, I always tell him to put the brute into his bedroom. Mind you come. The house
I stay at is called the Willingford Bull, and it's just four miles from Peterborough." Phineas
swore that he would go down and ride the pulling horses, and then took his leave, earnestly
advising Lord Chiltern, as he went, to keep the appointment proposed by his father.

When the morning came, at half-past eleven, the son, who had been standing for half an hour
with his back to the fire in the large gloomy dining-room, suddenly rang the bell. "Tell the
Earl," he said to the servant, "that I am here and will go to him if he wishes it." The servant
came back, and said that the Earl was waiting. Then Lord Chiltern strode after the man into
his father's room.

"Oswald," said the father, "I have sent for you because I think it may be as well to speak
to you on some business. Will you sit down?" Lord Chiltern sat down, but did not answer a word.
"I feel very unhappy about your sister's fortune," said the Earl.

"So do I,--very unhappy. We can raise the money between us, and pay her to-morrow, if you please
it."

"It was in opposition to my advice that she paid your debts."

"And in opposition to mine too."

"I told her that I would not pay them, and were I to give her back to-morrow, as you say, the
money that she has so used, I should be stultifying myself. But I will do so on one condition.
I will join with you in raising the money for your sister, on one condition."

"What is that?"

"Laura tells me,--indeed she has told me often,--that you are attached to Violet Effingham."

"But Violet Effingham, my lord, is unhappily not attached to me."

"I do not know how that may be. Of course I cannot say. I have never taken the liberty of interrogating
her upon the subject."

"Even you, my lord, could hardly have done that."

"What do you mean by that? I say that I never have," said the Earl, angrily.

"I simply mean that even you could hardly have asked Miss Effingham such a question. I have
asked her, and she has refused me."

"But girls often do that, and yet accept afterwards the men whom they have refused. Laura tells
me that she believes that Violet would consent if you pressed your suit."

"Laura knows nothing about it, my lord."

"There you are probably wrong. Laura and Violet are very close friends, and have no doubt discussed
this matter between them. At any rate, it may be as well that you should hear what I have to
say. Of course I shall not interfere myself. There is no ground on which I can do so with propriety."

"None whatever," said Lord Chiltern.

The Earl became very angry, and nearly broke down in his anger. He paused for a moment, feeling
disposed to tell his son to go and never to see him again. But he gulped down his wrath, and
went on with his speech. "My meaning, sir, is this;--that I have so great faith in Violet Effingham,
that I would receive her acceptance of your hand as the only proof which would be convincing
to me of amendment in your mode of life. If she were to do so, I would join with you in raising
money to pay your sister, would make some further sacrifice with reference to an income for
you and your wife, and--would make you both welcome to Saulsby,--if you chose to come." The
Earl's voice hesitated much and became almost tremulous as he made the last proposition. And
his eyes had fallen away from his son's gaze, and he had bent a little over the table, and
was moved. But he recovered himself at once, and added, with all proper dignity, "If you have
anything to say I shall be glad to hear it."

"All your offers would be nothing, my lord, if I did not like the girl."

"I should not ask you to marry a girl if you did not like her, as you call it."

"But as to Miss Effingham, it happens that our wishes jump together. I have asked her, and
she has refused me. I don't even know where to find her to ask her again. If I went to Lady
Baldock's house the servants would not let me in."

"And whose fault is that?"

"Yours partly, my lord. You have told everybody that I am the devil, and now all the old women
believe it."

"I never told anybody so."

"I'll tell you what I'll do. I will go down to Lady Baldock's to-day. I suppose she is at Baddingham.
And if I can get speech of Miss Effingham--"

"Miss Effingham is not at Baddingham. Miss Effingham is staying with your sister in Grosvenor
Place. I saw her yesterday."

"She is in London?"

"I tell you that I saw her yesterday."

"Very well, my lord. Then I will do the best I can. Laura will tell you of the result."

The father would have given the son some advice as to the mode in which he should put forward
his claim upon Violet's hand, but the son would not wait to hear it. Choosing to presume that
the conference was over, he went back to the room in which he had kept his dumb-bells, and
for a minute or two went to work at his favourite exercise. But he soon put the dumb-bells
down, and began to prepare himself for his work. If this thing was to be done, it might as
well be done at once. He looked out of his window, and saw that the streets were in a mess
of slush. White snow was becoming black mud, as it will do in London; and the violence of frost
was giving way to the horrors of thaw. All would be soft and comparatively pleasant in Northamptonshire
on the following morning, and if everything went right he would breakfast at the Willingford
Bull. He would go down by the hunting train, and be at the inn by ten. The meet was only six
miles distant, and all would be pleasant. He would do this whatever might be the result of
his work to-day;--but in the meantime he would go and do his work. He had a cab called, and
within half an hour of the time at which he had left his father, he was at the door of his
sister's house in Grosvenor Place. The servants told him that the ladies were at lunch. "I
can't eat lunch," he said. "Tell them that I am in the drawing-room."

"He has come to see you," said Lady Laura, as soon as the servant had left the room.

"I hope not," said Violet.

"Do not say that."

"But I do say it. I hope he has not come to see me;--that is, not to see me specially. Of course
I cannot pretend not to know what you mean."

"He may think it civil to call if he has heard that you are in town," said Lady Laura, after
a pause.

"If it be only that, I will be civil in return;--as sweet as May to him. If it be really only
that, and if I were sure of it, I should be really glad to see him." Then they finished their
lunch, and Lady Laura got up and led the way to the drawing-room.

"I hope you remember," said she, gravely, "that you might be a saviour to him."

"I do not believe in girls being saviours to men. It is the man who should be the saviour to
the girl. If I marry at all, I have the right to expect that protection shall be given to me,--not
that I shall have to give it."

"Violet, you are determined to misrepresent what I mean."

Lord Chiltern was walking about the room, and did not sit down when they entered. The ordinary
greetings took place, and Miss Effingham made some remark about the frost. "But it seems to
be going," she said, "and I suppose that you will soon be at work again?"

"Yes;--I shall hunt to-morrow," said Lord Chiltern.

"And the next day, and the next, and the next," said Violet, "till about the middle of April;--and
then your period of misery will begin!"

"Exactly," said Lord Chiltern. "I have nothing but hunting that I can call an occupation."

"Why don't you make one?" said his sister.

"I mean to do so, if it be possible. Laura, would you mind leaving me and Miss Effingham alone
for a few minutes?"

Lady Laura got up, and so also did Miss Effingham. "For what purpose?" said the latter. "It
cannot be for any good purpose."

"At any rate I wish it, and I will not harm you." Lady Laura was now going, but paused before
she reached the door. "Laura, will you do as I ask you?" said the brother. Then Lady Laura went.

"It was not that I feared you would harm me, Lord Chiltern," said Violet.

"No;--I know it was not. But what I say is always said awkwardly. An hour ago I did not know
that you were in town, but when I was told the news I came at once. My father told me."

"I am so glad that you see your father."

"I have not spoken to him for months before, and probably may not speak to him for months again.
But there is one point, Violet, on which he and I agree."

"I hope there will soon be many."

"It is possible,--but I fear not probable. Look here, Violet,"--and he looked at her with all
his eyes, till it seemed to her that he was all eyes, so great was the intensity of his gaze;--"I
should scorn myself were I to permit myself to come before you with a plea for your favour
founded on my father's whims. My father is unreasonable, and has been very unjust to me. He
has ever believed evil of me, and has believed it often when all the world knew that he was
wrong. I care little for being reconciled to a father who has been so cruel to me."

"He loves me dearly, and is my friend. I would rather that you should not speak against him to me."

"You will understand, at least, that I am asking nothing from you because he wishes it. Laura
probably has told you that you may make things straight by becoming my wife."

"She has,--certainly, Lord Chiltern."

"It is an argument that she should never have used. It is an argument to which you should not
listen for a moment. Make things straight indeed! Who can tell? There would be very little
made straight by such a marriage, if it were not that I loved you. Violet, that is my plea,
and my only one. I love you so well that I do believe that if you took me I should return to
the old ways, and become as other men are, and be in time as respectable, as stupid,--and perhaps
as ill-natured as old Lady Baldock herself."

"My poor aunt!"

"You know she says worse things of me than that. Now, dearest, you have heard all that I have
to say to you." As he spoke he came close to her, and put out his hand,--but she did not touch
it. "I have no other argument to use,--not a word more to say. As I came here in the cab I
was turning it over in my mind that I might find what best I should say. But, after all, there
is nothing more to be said than that."

"The words make no difference," she replied.

"Not unless they be so uttered as to force a belief. I do love you. I know no other reason
but that why you should be my wife. I have no other excuse to offer for coming to you again.
You are the one thing in the world that to me has any charm. Can you be surprised that I should
be persistent in asking for it?" He was looking at her still with the same gaze, and there
seemed to be a power in his eye from which she could not escape. He was still standing with
his right hand out, as though expecting, or at least hoping, that her hand might be put into his.

"How am I to answer you?" she said.

"With your love, if you can give it to me. Do you remember how you swore once that you would
love me for ever and always?"

"You should not remind me of that. I was a child then,--a naughty child," she added, smiling;
"and was put to bed for what I did on that day."

"Be a child still."

"Ah, if we but could!"

"And have you no other answer to make me?"

"Of course I must answer you. You are entitled to an answer. Lord Chiltern, I am sorry that
I cannot give you the love for which you ask."

"Never?"

"Never."

"Is it myself personally, or what you have heard of me, that is so hateful to you?"

"Nothing is hateful to me. I have never spoken of hate. I shall always feel the strongest regard
for my old friend and playfellow. But there are many things which a woman is bound to consider
before she allows herself so to love a man that she can consent to become his wife."

"Allow herself! Then it is a matter entirely of calculation."

"I suppose there should be some thought in it, Lord Chiltern."

There was now a pause, and the man's hand was at last allowed to drop, as there came no response
to the proffered grasp. He walked once or twice across the room before he spoke again, and
then he stopped himself closely opposite to her.

"I shall never try again," he said.

"It will be better so," she replied.

"There is something to me unmanly in a man's persecuting a girl. Just tell Laura, will you,
that it is all over; and she may as well tell my father. Good-bye."

She then tendered her hand to him, but he did not take it,--probably did not see it, and at
once left the room and the house.

"And yet I believe you love him," Lady Laura said to her friend in her anger, when they discussed
the matter immediately on Lord Chiltern's departure.

"You have no right to say that, Laura."

"I have a right to my belief, and I do believe it. I think you love him, and that you lack
the courage to risk yourself in trying to save him."

"Is a woman bound to marry a man if she love him?"

"Yes, she is," replied Lady Laura impetuously, without thinking of what she was saying; "that
is, if she be convinced that she also is loved."

"Whatever be the man's character;--whatever be the circumstances? Must she do so, whatever
friends may say to the contrary? Is there to be no prudence in marriage?"

"There may be a great deal too much prudence," said Lady Laura.

"That is true. There is certainly too much prudence if a woman marries prudently, but without
love." Violet intended by this no attack upon her friend,--had not had present in her mind
at the moment any idea of Lady Laura's special prudence in marrying Mr. Kennedy; but Lady Laura
felt it keenly, and knew at once that an arrow had been shot which had wounded her.

"We shall get nothing," she said, "by descending to personalities with each other."

"I meant none, Laura."

"I suppose it is always hard," said Lady Laura, "for any one person to judge altogether of
the mind of another. If I have said anything severe of your refusal of my brother, I retract
it. I only wish that it could have been otherwise."

Lord Chiltern, when he left his sister's house, walked through the slush and dirt to a haunt
of his in the neighbourhood of Covent Garden, and there he remained through the whole afternoon
and evening. A certain Captain Clutterbuck joined him, and dined with him. He told nothing
to Captain Clutterbuck of his sorrow, but Captain Clutterbuck could see that he was unhappy.

"Let's have another bottle of 'cham,'" said Captain Clutterbuck, when their dinner was nearly
over. "'Cham' is the only thing to screw one up when one is down a peg."

"You can have what you like," said Lord Chiltern; "but I shall have some brandy-and-water."

"The worst of brandy-and-water is, that one gets tired of it before the night is over," said
Captain Clutterbuck.

Nevertheless, Lord Chiltern did go down to Peterborough the next day by the hunting train,
and rode his horse Bonebreaker so well in that famous run from Sutton springs to Gidding that
after the run young Piles,--of the house of Piles, Sarsnet, and Gingham,--offered him three
hundred pounds for the animal.

"He isn't worth above fifty," said Lord Chiltern.

"But I'll give you the three hundred," said Piles.

"You couldn't ride him if you'd got him," said Lord Chiltern.

"Oh, couldn't I!" said Piles. But Mr. Piles did not continue the conversation, contenting himself
with telling his friend Grogram that that red devil Chiltern was as drunk as a lord.

CHAPTER XX

The Debate on the Ballot

Phineas took his seat in the House with a consciousness of much inward trepidation of heart
on that night of the ballot debate. After leaving Lord Chiltern he went down to his club and
dined alone. Three or four men came and spoke to him; but he could not talk to them at his
ease, nor did he quite know what they were saying to him. He was going to do something which
he longed to achieve, but the very idea of which, now that it was so near to him, was a terror
to him. To be in the House and not to speak would, to his thinking, be a disgraceful failure.
Indeed, he could not continue to keep his seat unless he spoke. He had been put there that
he might speak. He would speak. Of course he would speak. Had he not already been conspicuous
almost as a boy orator? And yet, at this moment he did not know whether he was eating mutton
or beef, or who was standing opposite to him and talking to him, so much was he in dread of
the ordeal which he had prepared for himself. As he went down to the House after dinner, he
almost made up his mind that it would be a good thing to leave London by one of the night mail
trains. He felt himself to be stiff and stilted as he walked, and that his clothes were uneasy
to him. When he turned into Westminster Hall he regretted more keenly than ever he had done
that he had seceded from the keeping of Mr. Low. He could, he thought, have spoken very well
in court, and would there have learned that self-confidence which now failed him so terribly.
It was, however, too late to think of that. He could only go in and take his seat.

He went in and took his seat, and the chamber seemed to him to be mysteriously large, as though
benches were crowded over benches, and galleries over galleries. He had been long enough in
the House to have lost the original awe inspired by the Speaker and the clerks of the House,
by the row of Ministers, and by the unequalled importance of the place. On ordinary occasions
he could saunter in and out, and whisper at his ease to a neighbour. But on this occasion he
went direct to the bench on which he ordinarily sat, and began at once to rehearse to himself
his speech. He had in truth been doing this all day, in spite of the effort that he had made
to rid himself of all memory of the occasion. He had been collecting the heads of his speech
while Mr. Low had been talking to him, and refreshing his quotations in the presence of Lord
Chiltern and the dumb-bells. He had taxed his memory and his intellect with various tasks,
which, as he feared, would not adjust themselves one with another. He had learned the headings
of his speech,--so that one heading might follow the other, and nothing be forgotten. And he
had learned verbatim the words which he intended to utter under each heading,--with a hope
that if any one compact part should be destroyed or injured in its compactness by treachery
of memory, or by the course of the debate, each other compact part might be there in its entirety,
ready for use;--or at least so many of the compact parts as treachery of memory and the accidents
of the debate might leave to him; so that his speech might be like a vessel, watertight in
its various compartments, that would float by the buoyancy of its stern and bow, even though
the hold should be waterlogged. But this use of his composed words, even though he should be
able to carry it through, would not complete his work;--for it would be his duty to answer
in some sort those who had gone before him, and in order to do this he must be able to insert,
without any prearrangement of words or ideas, little intercalatory parts between those compact
masses of argument with which he had been occupying himself for many laborious hours. As he
looked round upon the House and perceived that everything was dim before him, that all his
original awe of the House had returned, and with it a present quaking fear that made him feel
the pulsations of his own heart, he became painfully aware that the task he had prepared for
himself was too great. He should, on this the occasion of his rising to his maiden legs, have
either prepared for himself a short general speech, which could indeed have done little for
his credit in the House, but which might have served to carry off the novelty of the thing,
and have introduced him to the sound of his own voice within those walls,--or he should have
trusted to what his wit and spirit would produce for him on the spur of the moment, and not
have burdened himself with a huge exercise of memory. During the presentation of a few petitions
he tried to repeat to himself the first of his compact parts,--a compact part on which, as
it might certainly be brought into use let the debate have gone as it might, he had expended
great care. He had flattered himself that there was something of real strength in his words
as he repeated them to himself in the comfortable seclusion of his own room, and he had made
them so ready to his tongue that he thought it to be impossible that he should forget even
an intonation. Now he found that he could not remember the first phrases without unloosing
and looking at a small roll of paper which he held furtively in his hand. What was the good
of looking at it? He would forget it again in the next moment. He had intended to satisfy the
most eager of his friends, and to astound his opponents. As it was, no one would be satisfied,--and
none astounded but they who had trusted in him.

The debate began, and if the leisure afforded by a long and tedious speech could have served
him, he might have had leisure enough. He tried at first to follow all that this advocate for
the ballot might say, hoping thence to acquire the impetus of strong interest; but he soon
wearied of the work, and began to long that the speech might be ended, although the period
of his own martyrdom would thereby be brought nearer to him. At half-past seven so many members
had deserted their seats, that Phineas began to think that he might be saved all further pains
by a "count out." He reckoned the members present and found that they were below the mystic
forty,--first by two, then by four, by five, by seven, and at one time by eleven. It was not
for him to ask the Speaker to count the House, but he wondered that no one else should do so.
And yet, as the idea of this termination to the night's work came upon him, and as he thought
of his lost labour, he almost took courage again,--almost dreaded rather than wished for the
interference of some malicious member. But there was no malicious member then present, or else
it was known that Lords of the Treasury and Lords of the Admiralty would flock in during the
Speaker's ponderous counting,--and thus the slow length of the ballot-lover's verbosity was
permitted to evolve itself without interruption. At eight o'clock he had completed his catalogue
of illustrations, and immediately Mr. Monk rose from the Treasury bench to explain the grounds
on which the Government must decline to support the motion before the House.

Phineas was aware that Mr. Monk intended to speak, and was aware also that his speech would
be very short. "My idea is," he had said to Phineas, "that every man possessed of the franchise
should dare to have and to express a political opinion of his own; that otherwise the franchise
is not worth having; and that men will learn that when all so dare, no evil can come from such
daring. As the ballot would make any courage of that kind unnecessary, I dislike the ballot.
I shall confine myself to that, and leave the illustration to younger debaters." Phineas also
had been informed that Mr. Turnbull would reply to Mr. Monk, with the purpose of crushing Mr.
Monk into dust, and Phineas had prepared his speech with something of an intention of subsequently
crushing Mr. Turnbull. He knew, however, that he could not command his opportunity. There was
the chapter of accidents to which he must accommodate himself; but such had been his programme
for the evening.

Mr. Monk made his speech,--and though he was short, he was very fiery and energetic. Quick
as lightning words of wrath and scorn flew from him, in which he painted the cowardice, the
meanness, the falsehood of the ballot. "The ballot-box," he said, "was the grave of all true
political opinion." Though he spoke hardly for ten minutes, he seemed to say more than enough,
ten times enough, to slaughter the argument of the former speaker. At every hot word as it
fell Phineas was driven to regret that a paragraph of his own was taken away from him, and
that his choicest morsels of standing ground were being cut from under his feet. When Mr. Monk
sat down, Phineas felt that Mr. Monk had said all that he, Phineas Finn, had intended to say.

Then Mr. Turnbull rose slowly from the bench below the gangway. With a speaker so frequent
and so famous as Mr. Turnbull no hurry is necessary. He is sure to have his opportunity. The
Speaker's eye is ever travelling to the accustomed spots. Mr. Turnbull rose slowly and began
his oration very mildly. "There was nothing," he said, "that he admired so much as the poetic
imagery and the high-flown sentiment of his right honourable friend the member for West Bromwich,"--Mr.
Monk sat for West Bromwich,--"unless it were the stubborn facts and unanswered arguments of
his honourable friend who had brought forward this motion." Then Mr. Turnbull proceeded after
his fashion to crush Mr. Monk. He was very prosaic, very clear both in voice and language,
very harsh, and very unscrupulous. He and Mr. Monk had been joined together in politics for
over twenty years;--but one would have thought, from Mr. Turnbull's words, that they had been
the bitterest of enemies. Mr. Monk was taunted with his office, taunted with his desertion
of the liberal party, taunted with his ambition,--and taunted with his lack of ambition. "I
once thought," said Mr. Turnbull,--"nay, not long ago I thought, that he and I would have fought
this battle for the people, shoulder to shoulder, and knee to knee;--but he has preferred that
the knee next to his own shall wear a garter, and that the shoulder which supports him shall
be decked with a blue ribbon,--as shoulders, I presume, are decked in those closet conferences
which are called Cabinets."

