CHARACTER

By Samuel Smiles

CHAPTER I.--INFLUENCE OF CHARACTER.

     "Unless above himself he can Erect himself, how poor a thing
     is man"--DANIEL.

     "Character is moral order seen through the medium, of an
     individual nature.... Men of character are the conscience of
     the society to which they belong."--EMERSON.

     "The prosperity of a country depends, not on the abundance
     of its revenues, nor on the strength of its fortifications,
     nor on the beauty of its public buildings; but it consists
     in the number of its cultivated citizens, in its men of
     education, enlightenment, and character; here are to be
     found its true interest, its chief strength, its real
     power."--MARTIN LUTHER.

Character is one of the greatest motive powers in the world. In its noblest embodiments, it
exemplifies human nature in its highest forms, for it exhibits man at his best.

Men of genuine excellence, in every station of life--men of industry, of integrity, of high
principle, of sterling honesty of purpose--command the spontaneous homage of mankind. It is
natural to believe in such men, to have confidence in them, and to imitate them. All that is
good in the world is upheld by them, and without their presence in it the world would not be
worth living in.

Great men are always exceptional men; and greatness itself is but comparative. Indeed, the
range of most men in life is so limited, that very few have the opportunity of being great.
But each man can act his part honestly and honourably, and to the best of his ability. He can
use his gifts, and not abuse them. He can strive to make the best of life. He can be true,
just, honest, and faithful, even in small things. In a word, he can do his Duty in that sphere
in which Providence has placed him. Man's life is "centred in the sphere of common duties."
The most influential of all the virtues are those which are the most in request for daily use.
They wear the best, and last the longest. Superfine virtues, which are above the standard of
common men, may only be sources of temptation and danger. Burke has truly said that "the human
system which rests for its basis on the heroic virtues is sure to have a superstructure of
weakness or of profligacy."

When Dr. Abbot, afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury, drew the character of his deceased friend
Thomas Sackville, [101] he did not dwell upon his merits as a statesman, or his genius as a
poet, but upon his virtues as a man in relation to the ordinary duties of life. "How many rare
things were in him!" said he. "Who more loving unto his wife? Who more kind unto his children?--Who
more fast unto his friend?--Who more moderate unto his enemy?--Who more true to his word?"

At the same time, while Duty, for the most part, applies to the conduct of affairs in common
life by the average of common men, it is also a sustaining power to men of the very highest
standard of character. They may not have either money, or property, or learning, or power;
and yet they may be strong in heart and rich in spirit--honest, truthful, dutiful. And whoever
strives to do his duty faithfully is fulfilling the purpose for which he was created, and building
up in himself the principles of a manly character. There are many persons of whom it may be
said that they have no other possession in the world but their character, and yet they stand
as firmly upon it as any crowned king.

