8. I dined to-day in the City. This morning a scoundrel dog, one of the Queen's music, a German,
whom I had never seen, got access to me in my chamber by Patrick's folly, and gravely desired
me to get an employment in the Customs for a friend of his, who would be very grateful; and
likewise to forward a project of his own, for raising ten thousand pounds a year upon operas:
I used him civiller than he deserved; but it vexed me to the pluck.(23) He was told I had a
mighty interest with Lord Treasurer, and one word of mine, etc. Well; I got home early on purpose
to answer MD's letter, N.26; for this goes to-morrow.--Well; I never saw such a letter in all
my life; so saucy, so journalish, so sanguine, so pretending, so everything. I satisfied all
your fears in my last: all is gone well, as you say; yet you are an impudent slut to be so
positive; you will swagger so upon your sagacity that we shall never have done. Pray don't
mislay your reply; I would certainly print it, if I had it here: how long is it? I suppose
half a sheet: was the answer written in Ireland? Yes, yes, you shall have a letter when you
come from Ballygall. I need not tell you again who's out and who's in: we can never get out
the Duchess of Somerset.--So, they say Presto writ the Conduct, etc. Do they like it? I don't
care whether they do or no; but the resolutions printed t'other day in the Votes are almost
quotations from it, and would never have passed if that book had not been written. I will not
meddle with the Spectator, let him fair-sex it to the world's end. My disorder is over, but
blood was not from the p-les.--Well, Madam Dingley, the frost; why, we had a great frost, but
I forget how long ago; it lasted above a week or ten days: I believe about six weeks ago; but
it did not break so soon with us, I think, as December 29; yet I think it was about that time,
on second thoughts. MD can have no letter from Presto, says you; and yet four days before you
own you had my thirty-seventh, unreasonable sluts! The Bishop of Gloucester is not dead,(24)
and I am as likely to succeed the Duke of Marlborough as him if he were; there's enough for
that now. It is not unlikely that the Duke of Shrewsbury will be your Governor; at least I
believe the Duke of Ormond will not return.--Well, Stella again: why, really three editions
of the Conduct, etc., is very much for Ireland; it is a sign you have some honest among you.
Well; I will do Mr. Manley(25) all the service I can; but he will ruin himself. What business
had he to engage at all about the City? Can't he wish his cause well, and be quiet, when he
finds that stirring will do it no good, and himself a great deal of hurt? I cannot imagine
who should open my letter: it must be done at your side.--If I hear of any thoughts of turning
out Mr. Manley, I will endeavour to prevent it. I have already had all the gentlemen of Ireland
here upon my back often, for defending him. So now I have answered your saucy letter. My humble
service to Goody Stoyte and Catherine; I will come soon for my dinner.

9. Morning. My cold goes off at last; but I think I have got a small new one. I have no news
since last. They say we hear by the way of Calais, that peace is very near concluding. I hope
it may be true. I'll go and seal up my letter, and give it myself to-night into the post-office;
and so I bid my dearest MD farewell till to-night. I heartily wish myself with them, as hope
saved. My willows, and quicksets, and trees, will be finely improved, I hope, this year. It
has been fine hard frosty weather yesterday and to-day. Farewell, etc. etc. etc.

LETTER 41.(1)

LONDON, Feb. 9, 1711-12.

When my letter is gone, and I have none of yours to answer, my conscience is so clear, and
my shoulder so light, and I go on with such courage to prate upon nothing to deerichar MD,
oo would wonder. I dined with Sir Matthew Dudley, who is newly turned out of Commission of
the Customs. He affects a good heart, and talks in the extremity of Whiggery, which was always
his principle, though he was gentle a little, while he kept in employment. We can yet get no
packets from Holland. I have not been with any of the Ministry these two or three days. I keep
out of their way on purpose, for a certain reason, for some time, though I must dine with the
Secretary to-morrow, the choosing of the company being left to me. I have engaged Lord Anglesea(2)
and Lord Carteret,(3) and have promised to get three more; but I have a mind that none else
should be admitted: however, if I like anybody at Court to-morrow, I may perhaps invite them.
I have got another cold, but not very bad. Nite. .. MD.

10. I saw Prince Eugene at Court to-day very plain; he's plaguy yellow, and tolerably ugly
besides. The Court was very full, and people had their Birthday clothes. I dined with the Secretary
to-day. I was to invite five, but I only invited two, Lord Anglesea and Lord Carteret. Pshaw,
I told you this but yesterday. We have no packets from Holland yet. Here are a parcel of drunken
Whiggish lords, like your Lord Santry,(4) who come into chocolate-houses and rail aloud at
the Tories, and have challenges sent them, and the next morning come and beg pardon. General
Ross(5) was like to swinge the Marquis of Winchester(6) for this trick t'other day; and we
have nothing else now to talk of till the Parliament has had another bout with the state of
the war, as they intended in a few days. They have ordered the Barrier Treaty to be laid before
them; and it was talked some time ago, as if there was a design to impeach Lord Townshend,
who made it. I have no more politics now. Nite dee MD.

11. I dined with Lord Anglesea to-day, who had seven Irishmen to be my companions, of which
two only were coxcombs; one I did not know, and t'other was young Blith,(7) who is a puppy
of figure here, with a fine chariot. He asked me one day at Court, when I had been just talking
with some lords who stood near me, "Doctor, when shall we see you in the county of Meath?"
I whispered him to take care what he said, for the people would think he was some barbarian.
He never would speak to me since, till we met to-day. I went to Lady Masham's to-night, and
sat with Lord Treasurer and the Secretary there till past two o'clock; and when I came home,
found some letters from Ireland, which I read, but can say nothing of them till to-morrow,
'tis so very late; but I(8) must always be...,(9) late or early. Nite deelest sollahs.(10)

