What is a Cottage in the country, unless "your banks are all furnished with bees, whose murmurs
invite one to sleep?" There the hives stand, like four-and-twenty fiddlers all in a row. Not
a more harmless insect in all this world than a bee. Wasps are devils incarnate, but bees are
fleshly sprites, as amiable as industrious. You are strolling along in delightful mental vacuity,
looking at a poem of Barry Cornwall's, when smack comes an infuriated honey-maker against your
eyelid, and plunges into you the fortieth part of an inch of sting saturated in venom. The
wretch clings to your lid like a burr, and it feels as if he had a million claws to hold him
on while he is darting his weapon into your eyeball. Your banks are indeed well furnished with
bees, but their murmurs do not invite you to sleep; on the contrary, away you fly like a madman,
bolt into your wife's room, and roar out for the recipe. The whole of one side of your face
is most absurdly swollen, while the other is in statu quo. One eye is dwindled away to almost
nothing, and is peering forth from its rainbow-coloured envelope, while the other is open as
day to melting charity, and shining over a cheek of the purest crimson. Infatuated man! Why
could you not purchase your honey? Jemmy Thomson, the poet, would have let you have it, from
Habbie's Howe, the true Pentland elixir, for five shillings the pint; for during this season
both the heather and the clover were prolific of the honey-dew, and the Skeps rejoiced over
all Scotland on a thousand hills.

We could tell many stories about bees, but that would be leading us away from the main argument.
We remember reading in an American newspaper, some years ago, that the United States lost one
of their most upright and erudite judges by bees, which stung him to death in a wood while
he was going the circuit. About a year afterwards, we read in the same newspaper, "We are afraid
we have lost another judge by bees;" and then followed a somewhat frightful description of
the assassination of another American Blackstone by the same insects. We could not fail to
sympathise with both sufferers; for in the summer of the famous comet we ourselves had nearly
shared the same fate. Our Newfoundlander upset a hive in his vagaries--and the whole swarm
unjustly attacked us. The buzz was an absolute roar--and for the first time in our lives we
were under a cloud. Such buzzing in our hair! and of what avail were fifty-times-washed nankeen
breeches against the Polish Lancers? With our trusty crutch we made thousands bite the dust--but
the wounded and dying crawled up our legs, and stung us cruelly over the lower regions. At
last we took to flight, and found shelter in the ice-house. But it seemed as if a new hive
had been disturbed in that cool grotto. Again we sallied out, stripping off garment after garment,
till, in puris naturalibus, we leaped into a window, which happened to be that of the drawing-room,
where a large party of ladies and gentlemen were awaiting the dinner-bell--but fancy must dream
the rest.

We now offer a set of Blackwood's Magazine to any scientific character who will answer this
seemingly simple question--what is Damp? Quicksilver is a joke to it, for getting into or out
of any place. Capricious as damp is, it is faithful in its affection to all Cottages ornées.
What more pleasant than a bow-window? You had better, however, not sit with your back against
the wall, for it is as blue and ropy as that of a charnel-house. Probably the wall is tastily
papered--a vine-leaf pattern perhaps--or something spriggy--or in the aviary line--or, mayhap,
haymakers, or shepherds piping in the dale. But all distinctions are levelled in the mould--Phyllis
has a black patch over her eye, and Strephon seems to be playing on a pair of bellows. Damp
delights to descend chimneys, and is one of smoke's most powerful auxiliaries. It is a thousand
pities you hung up--just in that unlucky spot--Grecian Williams's Thebes--for now one of the
finest water-colour paintings in the world is not worth six-and-eightpence. There is no living
in the country without a library. Take down, with all due caution, that enormous tome, the
Excursion, and let us hear something of the Pedlar. There is an end to the invention of printing.
Lo and behold, blank verse indeed! You cannot help turning over twenty leaves at once, for
they are all amalgamated in must and mouldiness. Lord Byron himself is no better than an Egyptian
mummy; and the Great Unknown addresses you in hieroglyphics.

We have heard different opinions maintained on the subject of damp sheets. For our own part,
we always wish to feel the difference between sheets and cerements. We hate everything clammy.
It is awkward, on leaping out of bed to admire the moon, to drag along with you, glued round
your body and members, the whole paraphernalia of the couch. It can never be good for rheumatism--problematical
even for fever. Now, be candid--did you ever sleep in perfectly dry sheets in a Cottage ornée?
You would not like to say "No, never," in the morning--privately, to host or hostess. But confess
publicly, and trace your approaching retirement from all the troubles of this life, to the
dimity-curtained cubiculum on Tweedside.

We know of few events so restorative as the arrival of a coachful of one's friends, if the
house be roomy. But if everything there be on a small scale, how tremendous a sudden importation
of live cattle! The children are all trundled away out of the Cottage, and their room given
up to the young ladies, with all its enigmatical and emblematical wall-tracery. The captain
is billeted in the boudoir, on a shake-down. My lady's maid must positively pass the night
in the butler's pantry, and the valet makes a dormitory of the store-room. Where the old gentleman
and his spouse have been disposed of, remains as controversial a point as the authorship of
Junius; but next morning at the breakfast-table, it appears that all have survived the night,
and the hospitable hostess remarks, with a self-complacent smile, that small as the Cottage
appears, it has wonderful accommodation, and could have easily admitted half-a-dozen more patients.
The visitors politely request to be favoured with a plan of so very commodious a Cottage, but
silently swear never again to sleep in a house of one story, till life's brief tale be told.

But not one half the comforts of a Cottage have yet been enumerated--nor shall they be by us
at the present juncture. Suffice it to add, that the strange coachman had been persuaded to
put up his horses in the outhouses, instead of taking them to an excellent inn about two miles
off. The old black long-tailed steeds, that had dragged the vehicle for nearly twenty years,
had been lodged in what was called the Stable, and the horse behind had been introduced into
the byre. As bad luck would have it, a small, sick, and surly shelty was in his stall; and
without the slightest provocation, he had, during the night-watches, so handled his heels against
Mr Fox, that he had not left the senior a leg to stand upon, while he had bit a lump out of
the buttocks of Mr Pitt little less than an orange. A cow, afraid of her calf, had committed
an assault on the roadster, and tore up his flank with her crooked horn as clean as if it had
been a ripping chisel. The party had to proceed with post-horses; and although Mr Dick be at
once one of the most skilful and most moderate of veterinary surgeons, his bill at the end
of autumn was necessarily as long as that of a proctor. Mr Fox gave up the ghost--Mr Pitt was
put on the superannuated list--and Joseph Hume, the hack, was sent to the dogs.

To this condition, then, we must come at last, that if you build at all in the country, it
must be a mansion three stories high, at the lowest--large airy rooms--roof of slates and lead--and
walls of the freestone or the Roman cement. No small black-faces, no Alderneys, no beehives.
Buy all your vivres, and live like a gentleman. Seldom or never be without a houseful of company.
If you manage your family matters properly, you may have your time nearly as much at your own
disposal as if you were the greatest of hunkses, and never gave but unavoidable dinners. Let
the breakfast-gong sound at ten o'clock--quite soon enough. The young people will have been
romping about the parlours or the purlieus for a couple of hours--and will all make their appearance
in the beauty of high health and high spirits. Chat away as long as need be, after muffins
and mutton-ham, in small groups on sofas and settees, and then slip you away to your library,
to add a chapter to your novel, or your history, or to any other task that is to make you immortal.
Let gigs and curricles draw up in the circle, and the wooing and betrothed wheel away across
a few parishes. Let the pedestrians saunter off into the woods or to the hill-side--the anglers
be off to loch or river. No great harm even in a game or two at billiards--if such be of any
the cue--sagacious spinsters of a certain age, staid dowagers, and bachelors of sedentary habits,
may have recourse, without blame, to the chess or backgammon board. At two lunch--and at six
the dinner-gong will bring the whole flock together, all dressed--mind that--all dressed, for
slovenliness is an abomination. Let no elderly gentleman, however bilious and rich, seek to
monopolise a young lady--but study the nature of things. Champagne, of course, and if not all
the delicacies, at least all the substantialities, of the season. Join the ladies in about
two hours--a little elevated or so--almost imperceptibly--but still a little elevated or so;
then music--whispering in corners--if moonlight and stars, then an hour's out-of-door study
of astronomy--no very regular supper--but an appearance of plates and tumblers, and to bed,
to happy dreams and slumbers light, at the witching hour. Let no gentleman or lady snore, if
it can be avoided, lest they annoy the crickets; and if you hear any extraordinary noise round
and round about the mansion, be not alarmed, for why should not the owls choose their own hour
of revelry?

Fond as we are of the country, we would not, had we our option, live there all the year round.
We should just wish to linger into the winter about as far as the middle of December--then
to a city--say at once Edinburgh. There is as good skating-ground, and as good curling-ground,
at Lochend and Duddingston, as anywhere in all Scotland--nor is there anywhere else better
beef and greens. There is no perfection anywhere, but Edinburgh society is excellent. We are
certainly agreeable citizens; with just a sufficient spice of party spirit to season the feast
of reason and the flow of soul, and to prevent society from becoming drowsily unanimous. Without
the fillip of a little scandal, honest people would fall asleep; and surely it is far preferable
to that to abuse one's friends with moderation. Even Literature and the Belles Lettres are
not entirely useless; and our Human Life would not be so delightful as that of Mr Rogers, without
a few occasional Noctes Ambrosianæ.

But the title of our article recalls our wandering thoughts, and our talk must be of Cottages.
Now, think not, beloved reader, that we care not for Cottages, for that would indeed be a gross
mistake. But our very affections are philosophical; our sympathies have all their source in
reason; and our admiration is always built on the foundation of truth. Taste, and feeling,
and thought, and experience, and knowledge of this life's concerns, are all indispensable to
the true delights the imagination experiences in beholding a beautiful bonâ fide Cottage. It
must be the dwelling of the poor; and it is that which gives it its whole character. By the
poor, we mean not paupers, beggars; but families who, to eat, must work, and who, by working,
may still be able to eat. Plain, coarse, not scanty, but unsuperfluous fare is theirs from
year's-end to year's-end, excepting some decent and grateful change on chance holidays of nature's
own appointment--a wedding or a christening, or a funeral. Yes, a funeral; for when this mortal
coil is shuffled off, why should the hundreds of people that come trooping over muirs and mosses
to see the body deposited, walk so many miles, and lose a whole day's work, without a dinner?
And if there be a dinner, should it not be a good one? And if a good one, will the company
not be social? But this is a subject for a future paper, nor need such paper be of other than
a cheerful character. Poverty, then, is the builder and beautifier of all huts and cottages.
But the views of honest poverty are always hopeful and prospective. Strength of muscle and
strength of mind form a truly Holy Alliance; and the future brightens before the steadfast
eyes of trust. Therefore, when a house is built in the valley, or on the hill-side--be it that
of the poorest cottar--there is some little room, or nook, or spare place, which hope consecrates
to the future. Better times may come--a shilling or two may be added to the week's wages--parsimony
may accumulate a small capital in the Savings-bank sufficient to purchase an old eight-day
clock, a chest of drawers for the wife, a curtained bed for the lumber-place, which a little
labour will convert into a bedroom. It is not to be thought that the pasture-fields become
every year greener, and the cornfields every harvest more yellow--that the hedgerows grow to
thicker fragrance, and the birch-tree waves its tresses higher in the air, and expands its
white-rinded stem almost to the bulk of a tree of the forest--and yet that there shall be no
visible progress from good to better in the dwelling of those whose hands and hearts thus cultivate
the soil into rejoicing beauty. As the whole land prospers, so does each individual dwelling.
Every ten years, the observing eye sees a new expression on the face of the silent earth; the
law of labour is no melancholy lot; for to industry the yoke is easy, and content is its own
exceeding great reward.

Therefore, it does our heart good to look on a Cottage. Here the objections to straw-roofs
have no application. A few sparrows chirping and fluttering in the eaves can do no great harm,
and they serve to amuse the children. The very baby in the cradle, when all the family are
in the fields, mother and all, hears the cheerful twitter, and is reconciled to solitude. The
quantity of corn that a few sparrows can eat--greedy creatures as they are--cannot be very
deadly; and it is chiefly in the winter-time that they attack the stacks, when there is much
excuse to be made on the plea of hunger. As to the destruction of a little thatch, why, there
is not a boy about the house, above ten years, who is not a thatcher, and there is no expense
in such repairs. Let the honeysuckle, too, steal up the wall, and even blind unchecked a corner
of the kitchen-window. Its fragrance will often cheer unconsciously the labourer's heart, as,
in the mid-day hour of rest, he sits dandling his child on his knee, or converses with the
passing pedlar. Let the moss-rose tree flourish, that its bright blush-balls may dazzle in
the kirk the eyes of the lover of fair Helen Irwin, as they rise and fall with every movement
of a bosom yet happy in its virgin innocence. Nature does not spread in vain her flowers in
flush and fragrance over every obscure nook of earth. Simple and pure is the delight they inspire.
Not to the poet's eye alone is their language addressed. The beautiful symbols are understood
by lowliest minds; and while the philosophical Wordsworth speaks of the meanest flower that
blows giving a joy too deep for tears, so do all mankind feel the exquisite truth of Burns's
more simple address to the mountain-daisy which his ploughshare had upturned. The one touches
sympathies too profound to be general--the other speaks as a son of the soil affected by the
fate of the most familiar flower that springs from the bosom of our common dust.

Generally speaking, there has been a spirit of improvement at work, during these last twenty
years, upon all the Cottages in Scotland. The villages are certainly much neater and cleaner
than formerly, and in very few respects, if any, positively offensive. Perhaps none of them
have--nor ever will have--the exquisite trimness, the habitual and hereditary rustic elegance,
of the best villages of England. There, even the idle and worthless have an instinctive love
of what is decent, and orderly, and pretty in their habitations. The very drunkard must have
a well-sanded floor, a clean-swept hearth, clear-polished furniture, and uncobwebbed walls
to the room in which he quaffs, guzzles, and smokes himself into stupidity. His wife may be
a scold, but seldom a slattern--his children ill taught, but well apparelled. Much of this
is observable even among the worst of the class; and, no doubt, such things must also have
their effect in tempering and restraining excesses. Whereas, on the other hand, the house of
a well-behaved, well-doing English villager is a perfect model of comfort and propriety. In
Scotland, the houses of the dissolute are always dens of dirt, and disorder, and distraction.
All ordinary goings-on are inextricably confused--meals eaten in different nooks, and at no
regular hour--nothing in its right place or time--the whole abode as if on the eve of a flitting;
while, with few exceptions, even in the dwellings of the best families in the village, one
may detect occasional forgetfulness of trifling matters, that, if remembered, would be found
greatly conducive to comfort--occasional insensibilities to what would be graceful in their
condition, and might be secured at little expense and less trouble--occasional blindness to
minute deformities that mar the aspect of the household, and which an awakened eye would sweep
away as absolute nuisances. Perhaps the very depth of their affections--the solemnity of their
religious thoughts--and the reflective spirit in which they carry on the warfare of life--hide
from them the perception of what, after all, is of such very inferior moment, and even create
a sort of austerity of character which makes them disregard, too much, trifles that appear
to have no influence or connection with the essence of weal or woe. Yet if there be any truth
in this, it affords, we confess, an explanation rather than a justification.

Our business at present, however, is rather with single Cottages than with villages. We Scottish
people have, for some years past, been doing all we could to make ourselves ridiculous, by
claiming for our capital the name of Modern Athens, and talking all manner of nonsense about
a city which stands nobly on its own proper foundation; while we have kept our mouths comparatively
shut about the beauty of our hills and vales, and the rational happiness that everywhere overflows
our native land. Our character is to be found in the country; and therefore, gentle reader,
behold along with us a specimen of Scottish scenery. It is not above some four miles long--its
breadth somewhere about a third of its length; a fair oblong, sheltered and secluded by a line
of varied eminences, on some of which lies the power of cultivation, and over others the vivid
verdure peculiar to a pastoral region; while, telling of disturbed times past for ever, stand
yonder the ruins of an old fortalice or keep, picturesque in its deserted decay. The plough
has stopped at the edge of the profitable and beautiful coppice-woods, and encircled the tall
elm-grove. The rocky pasturage, with its clovery and daisied turf, is alive with sheep and
cattle--its briery knolls with birds--its broom and whins with bees--and its wimpling burn
with trouts and minnows glancing through the shallows, or leaping among the cloud of injects
that glitter over its pools. Here and there a cottage--not above twenty in all--one low down
in the holm, another on a cliff beside the waterfall: that is the mill--another breaking the
horizon in its more ambitious station--and another far up at the hill-foot, where there is
not a single tree, only shrubs and brackens. On a bleak day, there is but little beauty in
such a glen; but when the sun is cloudless, and all the light serene, it is a place where poet
or painter may see visions and dream dreams, of the very age of gold. At such seasons, there
is a home-felt feeling of humble reality, blending with the emotions of imagination. In such
places, the low-born high-souled poets of old breathed forth their songs, and hymns, and elegies--the
undying lyrical poetry of the heart of Scotland.

Take the remotest Cottage first in order, HILLFOOT, and hear who are its inmates--the Schoolmaster
and his spouse. The schoolhouse stands on a little unappropriated piece of ground--at least
it seems to be so--quite at the head of the glen; for there the hills sink down on each side,
and afford an easy access to the seat of learning from two neighbouring vales, both in the
same parish. Perhaps fifty scholars are there taught--and with their small fees, and his small
salary, Allan Easton is contented. Allan was originally intended for the Church; but some peccadilloes
obstructed his progress with the Presbytery, and he never was a preacher. That disappointment
of all his hopes was for many years grievously felt, and somewhat soured his mind with the
world. It is often impossible to recover one single false step in the slippery road of life--and
Allan Easton, year after year, saw himself falling farther and farther into the rear of almost
all his contemporaries. One became a minister, and got a manse, with a stipend of twenty chalders;
another grew into an East India Nabob; one married the laird's widow, and kept a pack of hounds--another
expanded into a colonel--one cleared a plum by a cotton-mill--another became the Croesus of
a bank--while Allan, who had beat them all hollow at all the classes, wore second-hand clothes,
and lived on the same fare with the poorest hind in the parish. He had married, rather too
late, the partner of his frailties--and after many trials, and, as he thought, not a few persecutions,
he got settled at last, when his head, not very old, was getting grey, and his face somewhat
wrinkled. His wife, during his worst poverty, had gone again into service, the lot, indeed,
to which she had been born; and Allan had struggled and starved upon private teaching. His
appointment to the parish school had, therefore, been to them both a blessed elevation. The
office was respectable--and loftier ambition had long been dead. Now they are old people--considerably
upwards of sixty--and twenty years' professional life have converted Allan Easton, once the
wild and eccentric genius, into a staid, solemn, formal, and pedantic pedagogue. All his scholars
love him, for even in the discharge of such very humble duties, talents make themselves felt
and respected; and the kindness of an affectionate and once sorely wounded, but now healed
heart, is never lost upon the susceptible imaginations of the young. Allan has sometimes sent
out no contemptible scholars, as scholars go in Scotland, to the universities; and his heart
has warmed within him when he has read their names, in the newspaper from the manse, in the
list of successful competitors for prizes. During vacation-time, Allan and his spouse leave
their cottage locked up, and disappear, none know exactly whither, on visits to an old friend
or two, who have not altogether forgotten them in their obscurity. During the rest of the year,
his only out-of-doors amusement is an afternoon's angling, an art in which it is universally
allowed he excels all mortal men, both in river and loch; and often, during the long winter
nights, when the shepherd is walking by his dwelling, to visit his "ain lassie," down the burn,
he hears Allan's fiddle playing, in the solitary silence, some one of those Scottish melodies,
that we know not whether it be cheerful or plaintive, but soothing to every heart that has
been at all acquainted with grief. Rumour says too, but rumour has not a scrupulous conscience,
that the Schoolmaster, when he meets with pleasant company, either at home or a friend's house,
is not averse to a hospitable cup, and that then the memories of other days crowd upon his
brain, and loosen his tongue into eloquence. Old Susan keeps a sharp warning eye upon her husband
on all such occasions; but Allan braves its glances, and is forgiven.

We see only the uncertain glimmer of their dwelling through the low-lying mist; and therefore
we cannot describe it, as if it were clearly before our eyes. But should you ever chance to
angle your way up to HILLFOOT, admire Allan Easton's flower-garden, and the jargonelle pear-tree
on the southern gable. The climate is somewhat high, but it is not cold; and, except when the
spring-frosts come late and sharp, there do all blossoms and fruits abound, on every shrub
and tree native to Scotland. You will hardly know how to distinguish--or rather, to speak in
clerkly phrase, to analyse the sound prevalent over the fields and air; for it is made up of
that of the burn, of bees, of old Susan's wheel, and the hum of the busy school. But now it
is the play-hour, and Allan Easton comes into his kitchen for his frugal dinner. Brush up your
Latin, and out with a few of the largest trouts in your pannier. Susan fries them in fresh
butter and oatmeal--the greyhaired pedagogue asks a blessing--and a merrier man, within the
limits of becoming mirth, you never passed an hour's talk withal. So much for Allan Easton
and Susan his spouse.

You look as if you wished to ask who inhabits the Cottage--on the left hand yonder--that stares
upon us with four front windows, and pricks up its ears like a new-started hare? Why, sir,
that was once a Shooting-box. It was built about twenty years ago, by a sporting gentleman
of two excellent double-barrelled guns, and three stanch pointers. He attempted to live there,
several times, from the 12th of August till the end of September, and went pluffing disconsolately
among the hills from sunrise to sunset. He has been long dead and buried; and the Box, they
say, is now haunted. It has been attempted to be let furnished, and there is now a board to
that effect hung out like an escutcheon. Picturesque people say it ruins the whole beauty of
the glen; but we must not think so, for it is not in the power of the ugliest house that ever
was built to do that, although, to effect such a purpose, it is unquestionably a skilful contrivance.
The window-shutters have been closed for several years, and the chimneys look as if they had
breathed their last. It stands in a perpetual eddy, and the ground shelves so all around it,
that there is barely room for a barrel to catch the rain-drippings from the slate-eaves. If
it be indeed haunted, pity the poor ghost! You may have it on a lease, short or long, for merely
paying the taxes. Every year it costs some pounds in advertisements. What a jointure-house
it would be for a relict! By name, WINDY-KNOWE.

Nay, let us not fear to sketch the character of its last inhabitant, for we desire but to speak
the truth. Drunkard, stand forward, that we may have a look at you, and draw your picture.
There he stands! The mouth of the drunkard, you may observe, contracts a singularly sensitive
appearance--seemingly red and rawish; and he is perpetually licking or smacking his lips, as
if his palate were dry and adust. His is a thirst that water will not quench. He might as well
drink air. His whole being burns for a dram. The whole world is contracted into a caulker.
He would sell his soul in such extremity, were the black bottle denied him, for a gulp. Not
to save his soul from eternal fire, would he, or rather could he, if left alone with it, refrain
from pulling out the plug, and sucking away at destruction. What a snout he turns up to the
morning air, inflamed, pimpled, snubby, and snorty, and with a nob at the end on't like one
carved out of a stick by the knife of a schoolboy--rough and hot to the very eye--a nose which,
rather than pull, you would submit even to be in some degree insulted. A perpetual cough harasses
and exhausts him, and a perpetual expectoration. How his hand trembles! It is an effort even
to sign his name: one of his sides is certainly not by any means as sound as the other; there
has been a touch of palsy there; and the next hint will draw down his chin to his collar-bone,
and convert him, a month before dissolution, into a slavering idiot. There is no occupation,
small or great, insignificant or important, to which he can turn, for any length of time, his
hand, his heart, or his head. He cannot angle--for his fingers refuse to tie a knot, much more
to busk a fly. The glimmer and the glow of the stream would make his brain dizzy--to wet his
feet now would, he fears, be death. Yet he thinks that he will go out--during that sunny blink
of a showery day--and try the well-known pool in which he used to bathe in boyhood, with the
long, matted, green-trailing water-plants depending on the slippery rocks, and the water-ousel
gliding from beneath the arch that hides her "procreant cradle," and then sinking like a stone
suddenly in the limpid stream. He sits down on the bank, and fumbling in his pouch for his
pocket-book, brings out, instead, a pocket-pistol. Turning his fiery face towards the mild,
blue, vernal sky, he pours the gurgling brandy down his throat--first one dose, and then another--till,
in an hour, stupefied and dazed, he sees not the silvery crimson-spotted trouts, shooting,
and leaping, and tumbling, and plunging in deep and shallow; a day on which, with one of Captain
Colley's March-Browns, in an hour we could fill our pannier. Or, if it be autumn or winter,
he calls, perhaps, with a voice at once gruff and feeble, an old Ponto, and will take a pluff
at the partridges. In former days, down they used to go, right and left, in potato or turnip-field,
broomy brae or stubble--but now his sight is dim and wavering, and his touch trembles on the
trigger. The covey whirrs off, unharmed in a single feather--and poor Ponto, remembering better
days, cannot conceal his melancholy, falls in at his master's heel, and will range no more.
Out, as usual, comes the brandy-bottle--he is still a good shot when his mouth is the mark;
and having emptied the fatal flask, he staggers homewards, with the muzzles of his double-barrel
frequently pointed to his ear, both being on full cock, and his brains not blown out only by
a miracle. He tries to read the newspaper--just arrived--but cannot find his spectacles. Then,
by way of variety, he attempts a tune on the fiddle; but the bridge is broken, and her side
cracked, and the bass-string snapped--and she is restored to her peg among the cobwebs. In
comes a red-headed, stockingless lass, with her carrots in papers, and lays the cloth for dinner--salt
beef and greens. But the Major's stomach scunners at the Skye-stot--his eyes roll eagerly for
the hot-water--and in a couple of hours he is dead-drunk in his chair, or stoitering and staggering,
in aimless dalliance with the scullion, among the pots and pans of an ever-disorderly and dirty
kitchen. Mean people, in shabby sporting velveteen dresses, rise up, as he enters, from the
dresser, covered with cans, jugs, and quaichs, and take off their rusty and greasy napless
hats to the Major; and, to conclude the day worthily and consistently, he squelches himself
down among the reprobate crew, takes his turn at smutty jest and smuttier song, which drive
even the jades out of the kitchen--falls back insensible, exposed to gross and indecent practical
jokes from the vilest of the unhanged--and finally is carried to bed on a hand-barrow, with
hanging head and heels, like a calf across a butcher's cart, and, with glazed eyes and lolling
tongue, is tumbled upon the quilt--if ever to awake it is extremely doubtful; but if awake
he do, it is to the same wretched round of brutal degradation--a career, of which the inevitable
close is an unfriended deathbed and a pauper's grave. O hero! six feet high, and once with
a brawn like Hercules--in the prime of life too--well born and well bred--once bearing the
king's commission--and on that glorious morn, now forgotten or bitterly remembered, thanked
on the field of battle by Picton, though he of the fighting division was a hero of few words--is
that a death worthy of a man--a soldier--and a Christian? A dram-drinker! Faugh! faugh! Look
over--lean over that stile, where a pig lies wallowing in mire--and a voice, faint and feeble,
and far off, as if it came from some dim and remote world within your lost soul, will cry,
that of the two beasts, that bristly one, agrunt in sensual sleep, with its snout snoring across
the husk-trough, is, as a physical, moral, and intellectual being, superior to you, late Major
in his Majesty's ---- regiment of foot, now dram-drinker, drunkard, and dotard, and self-doomed
to a disgraceful and disgusting death ere you shall have completed your thirtieth year. What
a changed being from that day when you carried the colours, and were found, the bravest of
the brave, and the most beautiful of the beautiful, with the glorious tatters wrapped round
your body all drenched in blood, your hand grasping the broken sabre, and two grim Frenchmen
lying hacked and hewed at your feet! Your father and your mother saw your name in the "Great
Lord's" Despatch; and it was as much as he could do to keep her from falling on the floor,
for "her joy was like a deep affright!" Both are dead now; and better so, for the sight of
that blotched face and those glazed eyes, now and then glittering in fitful frenzy, would have
killed them both, nor, after such a spectacle, could their old bones have rested in the grave.

Alas, Scotland--ay, well-educated, moral, religious Scotland can show, in the bosom of her
bonny banks and braes, cases worse than this; at which, if there be tears in heaven, the angels
weep. Look at that greyheaded man, of threescore and upwards, sitting by the wayside! He was
once an Elder of the Kirk, and a pious man he was, if ever piety adorned the temples--"the
lyart haffets, wearing thin and bare," of a Scottish peasant. What eye beheld the many hundred
steps, that one by one, with imperceptible gradation, led him down--down--down to the lowest
depths of shame, suffering, and ruin! For years before it was bruited abroad through the parish
that Gabriel Mason was addicted to drink, his wife used to sit weeping alone in the spence
when her sons and daughters were out at their work in the fields, and the infatuated man, fierce
in the excitement of raw ardent spirits, kept causelessly raging and storming through every
nook of that once so peaceful tenement, which for many happy years had never been disturbed
by the loud voice of anger or reproach. His eyes were seldom turned on his unhappy wife except
with a sullen scowl, or fiery wrath; but when they did look on her with kindness, there was
also a rueful self-upbraiding in their expression, on account of his cruelty; and at sight
of such transitory tenderness, her heart would overflow with forgiving affection, and her sunk
eyes with unendurable tears. But neither domestic sin nor domestic sorrow will conceal from
the eyes and the ears of men; and at last Gabriel Mason's name was a byword in the mouth of
the scoffer. One Sabbath he entered the kirk in a state of miserable abandonment, and from
that day he was no longer an elder. To regain his character seemed to him, in his desperation,
beyond the power of man, and against the decree of God. So he delivered himself up, like a
slave, to that one appetite, and in a few years his whole household had gone to destruction.
His wife was a matron, almost in the prime of life, when she died; but as she kept wearing
away to the other world, her face told that she felt her years had been too many in this. Her
eldest son, unable, in pride and shame, to lift up his eyes at kirk or market, went away to
the city, and enlisted into a regiment about to embark on foreign service. His two sisters
went to take farewell of him, but never returned; one, it is said, having died of a fever in
the Infirmary--just as if she had been a pauper; and the other--for the sight of sin, and sorrow,
and shame, and suffering, is ruinous to the soul--gave herself up, in her beauty, an easy prey
to a destroyer, and doubtless has run her course of agonies, and is now at peace. The rest
of the family dropt down, one by one, out of sight, into inferior situations in far-off places;
but there was a curse, it was thought, hanging over the family, and of none of them did ever
a favourable report come to their native parish; while he, the infatuated sinner, whose vice
seemed to have worked all the woe, remained in the chains of his tyrannical passion, nor seemed
ever, for more than the short term of a day, to cease hugging them to his heart. Semblance
of all that is most venerable in the character of Scotland's peasantry! Image of a perfect
patriarch, walking out to meditate at eventide! What a noble forehead! Features how high, dignified,
and composed! There, sitting in the shade of that old wayside tree, he seems some religious
Missionary, travelling to and fro over the face of the earth, seeking out sin and sorrow, that
he may tame them under the word of God, and change their very being into piety and peace. Call
him not a hoary hypocrite, for he cannot help that noble--that venerable--that apostolic aspect--that
dignified figure, as if bent gently by Time, loth to touch it with too heavy a hand--that holy
sprinkling over his furrowed temples of the silver-soft, and the snow-white hair--these are
the gifts of gracious Nature all--and Nature will not reclaim them, but in the tomb. That is
Gabriel Mason--the Drunkard! And in an hour you may, if your eyes can bear the sight, see and
hear him staggering up and down the village, cursing, swearing, preaching, praying--stoned
by blackguard boys and girls, who hound all the dogs and curs at his heels, till, taking refuge
in the smithy or the pot-house, he becomes the sport of grown clowns, and, after much idiot
laughter, ruefully mingled with sighs, and groans, and tears, he is suffered to mount upon
a table, and urged, perhaps, by reckless folly to give out a text from the Bible, which is
nearly all engraven on his memory--so much and so many other things effaced for ever--and there,
like a wild Itinerant, he stammers forth unintentional blasphemy, till the liquor he has been
allowed or instigated to swallow smites him suddenly senseless, and, falling down, he is huddled
off into a corner of some lumber-room; and left to sleep--better far for such a wretch were
it to death.

Let us descend, then, from that most inclement front, into the lown boundaries of the HOLM.
The farm-steading covers a goodly portion of the peninsula shaped by the burn, that here looks
almost like a river. With its outhouses it forms three sides of a square, and the fourth is
composed of a set of jolly stacks, that will keep the thrashing-machine at work during all
the winter. The interior of the square rejoices in a glorious dunghill (O, breathe not the
name!) that will cover every field with luxuriant harvests--twelve bolls of oats to the acre.
There the cattle--oxen yet "lean, and lank, and brown as is the ribbed sea-sand," will, in
a few months, eat themselves up, on straw and turnip, into obesity. There turkeys walk demure--there
geese waddle, and there the feathery-legged king of Bantam struts among his seraglio, keeping
pertly aloof from double-combed Chanticleer, that squire of dames, crowing to his partlets.
There a cloud of pigeons often descends among the corny chaff, and then whirrs off to the uplands.
No chained mastiff looking grimly from the kennel's mouth, but a set of cheerful and sagacious
collies are seen sitting on their hurdies, or "worrying ither in diversion." A shaggy colt
or two, and a brood mare, with a spice of blood, and a foal at her heels, know their shed,
and evidently are favourites with the family. Out comes the master, a rosy-cheeked carle, upwards
of six feet high, broad-shouldered, with a blue bonnet and velveteen breeches--a man not to
be jostled on the crown o' the causey, and a match for any horse-couper from Bewcastle, or
gypsy from Yetholm. But let us into the kitchen. There's the wife--a bit tidy body--and pretty
withal--more authoritative in her quiet demeanour than the most tyrannical mere housekeeper
that ever thumped a servant lass with the beetle. These three are her daughters. First, Girzie,
the eldest, seemingly older than her mother--for she is somewhat hard-favoured, and strong
red hair dangling over a squint eye is apt to give an expression of advanced years, even to
a youthful virgin. Vaccination was not known in Girzie's babyhood, but she is, nevertheless,
a clean-skinned creature, and her full bosom is white as snow. She is what is delicately called
a strapper, rosy-armed as the morning, and not a little of an Aurora about the ankles. She
makes her way, in all household affairs, through every impediment, and will obviously prove,
whenever the experiment is made, a most excellent wife. Mysie, the second daughter, is more
composed, more genteel, and sits sewing--with her a favourite occupation, for she has very
neat hands; and is, in fact, the milliner and mantua-maker for all the house. She could no
more lift that enormous pan of boiling water off the fire than she could fly, which in the
grasp of Girzie is safely landed on the hearth. Mysie has somewhat of a pensive look, as if
in love--and we have heard that she is betrothed to young Mr Rentoul, the divinity student,
who lately made a speech before the Anti-patronage Society, and therefore may reasonably expect
very soon to get a kirk. But look--there comes dancing in from the ewe-bughts the bright-eyed
Bessy, the flower of the flock, the most beautiful girl in Almondale, and fit to be bosom-burd
of the Gentle Shepherd himself! O that we were a poet, to sing the innocence of her budding
breast! But--heaven preserve us!--what is the angelic creature about? Making rumbledethumps!
Now she pounds the potatoes and cabbages as with pestle and mortar! Ever and anon licking the
butter off her fingers, and then dashing in the salt! Methinks her laugh is out of all bounds
loud--and, unless my eyes deceived me, that stout lout whispered in her delicate ear some coarse
jest, that made the eloquent blood mount up into her not undelighted countenance. Heavens and
earth!--perhaps an assignation in the barn, or byre, or bush aboon Traquair. But the long dresser
is set out with dinner--the gudeman's bonnet is reverently laid aside--and if any stomach assembled
there be now empty, it is not likely, judging from appearances, that it will be in that state
again before next Sabbath--and it is now but the middle of the week. Was it not my Lord Byron
who liked not to see women eat? Poo--poo--nonsense! We like to see them not only eat--but devour.
Not a set of teeth round that kitchen-dresser that is not white as the driven snow. Breath
too, in spite of syboes, sweet as dawn-dew--the whole female frame full of health, freshness,
spirit, and animation! Away all delicate wooers, thrice-high-fantastical! The diet is wholesome--and
the sleep will be sound; therefore eat away, Bessy--nor fear to laugh, although your pretty
mouth be full--for we are no poet to madden into misanthropy at your mastication; and, in spite
of the heartiest meal ever virgin ate, to us these lips are roses still; "thy eyes are lode-stars,
and thy breath sweet air." Would for thy sake we had been born a shepherd-groom! No--no--no!
For some few joyous years mayest thou wear thy silken snood unharmed, and silence with thy
songs the linnet among the broom, at the sweet hour of prime. And then mayest thou plight thy
troth--in all the warmth of innocence--to some ardent yet thoughtful youth, who will carry
his bride exultingly to his own low-roofed home--toil for her and the children at her knees,
through summer's heat and winter's cold--and sit with her in the kirk, when long years have
gone by, a comely matron, attended by daughters acknowledged to be fair--but neither so fair,
nor so good, nor so pious, as their mother.

What a contrast to the jocund Holm is the ROWAN-TREE-HUT--so still, and seemingly so desolate!
It is close upon the public road, and yet so low, that you might pass it without observing
its turf-roof. There live old Aggy Robinson, the carrier, and her consumptive daughter. Old
Aggy has borne that epithet for twenty years, and her daughter is not much under sixty. That
poor creature is bed-ridden and helpless, and has to be fed almost like a child. Old Aggy has
for many years had the same white pony--well named Samson--that she drives three times a-week,
all the year round, to and from the nearest market-town, carrying all sorts of articles to
nearly twenty different families, living miles apart. Every other day in the week--for there
is but one Sabbath either to herself or Samson--she drives coals, or peat, or wood, or lime,
or stones for the roads. She is clothed in a man's coat, an old rusty beaver, and a red petticoat.
Aggy never was a beauty, and now she is almost frightful, with a formidable beard, and a rough
voice--and violent gestures, encouraging the overladen enemy of the Philistines. But as soon
as she enters her hut, she is silent, patient, and affectionate, at her daughter's bedside.
They sleep on the same chaff-mattress, and she hears, during the dead of the night, her daughter's
slightest moan. Her voice is not rough at all when the poor old creature is saying her prayers;
nor, we may be well assured, is its lowest whisper unheard in heaven.

Your eyes are wandering away to the eastern side of the vale, and they have fixed themselves
on the Cottage of the SEVEN OAKS. The grove is a noble one; and, indeed, those are the only
timber-trees in the valley. There is a tradition belonging to the grove, but we shall tell
it some other time; now, we have to do with that mean-looking Cottage, all unworthy of such
magnificent shelter. With its ragged thatch it has a cold cheerless look--almost a look of
indigence. The walls are sordid in the streaked ochre-wash--a wisp of straw supplies the place
of a broken pane--the door seems as if it were inhospitable--and every object about is in untended
disorder. The green pool in front, with its floating straws and feathers, and miry edge, is
at once unhealthy and needless; the hedgerows are full of gaps, and open at the roots; the
few garments spread upon them seem to have stiffened in the weather, forgotten by the persons
who placed them there; and half-starved young cattle are straying about in what once was a
garden. Wretched sight it is; for that dwelling, although never beautiful, was once the tidiest
and best-kept in all the district. But what has misery to do with the comfort of its habitation?

The owner of that house was once a man well to do in the world; but he minded this world's
goods more than it was fitting to do, and made Mammon his god. Abilities he possessed far beyond
the common run of men, and he applied them all, with all the energy of a strong mind, to the
accumulation of wealth. Every rule of his life had that for its ultimate end; and he despised
a bargain unless he outwitted his neighbour. Without any acts of downright knavery, he was
not an honest man--hard to the poor--and a tyrannical master. He sought to wring from the very
soil more than it could produce; his servants, among whom were his wife and daughter, he kept
at work, like slaves, from twilight to twilight; and was a forestaller and a regrater--a character
which, when Political Economy was unknown, was of all the most odious in the judgment of simple
husbandmen. His spirits rose with the price of meal, and every handful dealt out to the beggar
was paid like a tax. What could the Bible teach to such a man? What good could he derive from
the calm air of the house of worship? He sent his only son to the city, with injunctions instilled
into him to make the most of all transactions, at every hazard but that of his money; and the
consequence was, in a few years, shame, ruin, and expatriation. His only daughter, imprisoned,
dispirited, enthralled, fell a prey to a vulgar seducer; and being driven from her father's
house, abandoned herself, in hopeless misery, to a life of prostitution. His wife, heartbroken
by cruelty and affliction, was never afterwards altogether in her right mind, and now sits
weeping by the hearth, or wanders off to distant places, lone houses and villages, almost in
the condition of an idiot--wild-eyed, loose-haired, and dressed like a very beggar. Speculation
after speculation failed--with farmyard crowded with old stacks, he had to curse three successive
plentiful harvests--and his mailing was now destitute. The unhappy man grew sour, stern, fierce,
in his calamity; and, when his brain was inflamed with liquor, a dangerous madman. He is now
a sort of cattle-dealer--buys and sells miserable horses--and at fairs associates with knaves
and reprobates, knowing that no honest man will deal with him except in pity or derision. He
has more than once attempted to commit suicide; but palsy has stricken him--and in a few weeks
he will totter into the grave.

There is a Cottage in that hollow, and you see the smoke--even the chimney-top, but you could
not see the Cottage itself, unless you were within fifty yards of it, so surrounded is it with
knolls and small green eminences, in a den of its own, a shoot or scion from the main stem
of the valley. It is called THE BROOM, and there is something singular, and not uninteresting,
in the history of its owner. He married very early in life, indeed when quite a boy, which
is not, by the way, very unusual among the peasantry of Scotland, prudent and calculating as
is their general character. David Drysdale, before he was thirty years of age, had a family
of seven children, and a pretty family they were as might be seen in all the parish. His life
was in theirs, and his mind never wandered far from his fireside. His wife was of a consumptive
family, and that insidious and fatal disease never showed in her a single symptom during ten
years of marriage; but one cold evening awoke it at her very heart, and in less than two months
it hurried her into the grave. Poor creature, such a spectre! When her husband used to carry
her, for the sake of a little temporary relief, from chair to couch, and from her couch back
again to her bed, twenty times in a day, he hardly could help weeping, with all his consideration,
to feel her frame as light as a bundle of leaves. The medical man said, that in all his practice
he never had known soul and body keep together in such utter attenuation. But her soul was
as clear as ever while racking pain was in her fleshless bones. Even he, her loving husband,
was relieved from woe when she expired; for no sadness, no sorrow, could be equal to the misery
of groans from one so patient and so resigned. Perhaps consumption is infectious--so, at least,
it seemed here; for first one child began to droop, and then another--the elder ones first;
and, within the two following years, there were almost as many funerals from this one house
as from all the others in the parish. Yes--they all died--of the whole family not one was spared.
Two, indeed, were thought to have pined away in a sort of fearful foreboding--and a fever took
off a third--but four certainly died of the same hereditary complaint with the mother; and
now not a voice was heard in the house. He did not desert the Broom; and the farm-work was
still carried on, nobody could tell how. The servants, to be sure, knew their duty, and often
performed it without orders. Sometimes the master put his hand to the plough, but oftener he
led the life of a shepherd, and was by himself among the hills. He never smiled--and at every
meal he still sat like a man about to be led out to die. But what will not retire away--recede--disappear
from the vision of the souls of us mortals! Tenacious as we are of our griefs, even more than
of our joys, both elude our grasp. We gaze after them with longing or self-upbraiding aspirations
for their return; but they are shadows, and like shadows vanish. Then human duties, lowly though
they may be, have their sanative and salutary influence on our whole frame of being. Without
their performance conscience cannot be still; with it, conscience brings peace in extremity
of evil. Then occupation kills grief, and industry abates passion. No balm for sorrow like
the sweat of the brow poured into the furrows of the earth, in the open air, and beneath the
sunshine of heaven. These truths were felt by the childless widower, long before they were
understood by him; and when two years had gone drearily, ay dismally, almost despairingly,
by--he began at times to feel something like happiness again when sitting among his friends
in the kirk, or at their firesides, or in the labours of the field, or even on the market-day,
among this world's concerns. Thus, they who knew him and his sufferings were pleased to recognise
what might be called resignation and its grave tranquillity; while strangers discerned in him
nothing more than a staid and solemn demeanour, which might be natural to many a man never
severely tried, and offering no interruption to the cheerfulness that pervaded their ordinary life.

He had a cousin a few years younger than himself, who had also married when a girl, and when
little more than a girl had been left a widow. Her parents were both dead, and she had lived
for a good many years as an upper servant, or rather companion and friend, in the house of
a relation. As cousins, they had all their lives been familiar and affectionate, and Alice
Gray had frequently lived for months at a time at the Broom, taking care of the children, and
in all respects one of the family. Their conditions were now almost equally desolate, and a
deep sympathy made them now more firmly attached than they ever could have been in better days.
Still, nothing at all resembling love was in either of their hearts, nor did the thought of
marriage ever pass across their imaginations. They found, however, increasing satisfaction
in each other's company; and looks and words of sad and sober endearment gradually bound them
together in affection stronger far than either could have believed. Their friends saw and spoke
of the attachment, and of its probable result, long before they were aware of its full nature;
and nobody was surprised, but, on the contrary, all were well pleased, when it was understood
that they were to be man and wife. There was something almost mournful in their marriage--no
rejoicing--no merry-making--but yet visible symptoms of gratitude, contentment, and peace.
An air of cheerfulness was not long of investing the melancholy Broom--the very swallows twittered
more gladly from the window-corners, and there was joy in the cooing of the pigeons on the
sunny roof. The farm awoke through all its fields, and the farm-servants once more sang and
whistled at their work. The wandering beggar, who remembered the charity of other years, looked
with no cold expression on her who now dealt out his dole; and as his old eyes were dimmed
for the sake of those who were gone, gave a fervent blessing on the new mistress of the house,
and prayed that she might long be spared. The neighbours, even they who had best loved the
dead, came in with cheerful countenances, and acknowledged in their hearts, that since change
is the law of life, there was no one, far or near, whom they could have borne to see sitting
in that chair but Alice Gray. The husband knew their feelings from their looks, and his fireside
blazed once more with a cheerful lustre.

O, gentle reader, young perhaps, and inexperienced of this world, wonder not at this so great
change! The heart is full, perhaps, of a pure and holy affection, nor can it die, even for
an hour of sleep. May it never die but in the grave! Yet die it may, and leave thee blameless.
The time may come when that bosom, now thy Elysium, will awaken not, with all its heaving beauty,
one single passionate or adoring sigh. Those eyes, that now stream agitation and bliss into
thy throbbing heart, may, on some not very distant day, be cold to thy imagination as the distant
and unheeded stars. That voice, now thrilling through every nerve, may fall on thy ear a disregarded
sound. Other hopes, other fears, other troubles, may possess thee wholly--and that more than
angel of Heaven seem to fade away into a shape of earth's most common clay. But here there
was no change--no forgetfulness--no oblivion--no faithlessness to a holy trust. The melancholy
man often saw his Hannah, and all his seven sweet children--now fair in life--now pale in death.
Sometimes, perhaps, the sight, the sound--their smiles and their voices--disturbed him, till
his heart quaked within him, and he wished that he too was dead. But God it was who had removed
them from our earth--and was it possible to doubt that they were all in blessedness? Shed your
tears over change from virtue to vice, happiness to misery; but weep not for those still, sad,
mysterious processes by which gracious Nature alleviates the afflictions of our mortal lot,
and enables us to endure the life which the Lord our God hath given us. Ere long husband and
wife could bear to speak of those who were now no more seen; when the phantoms rose before
them in the silence of the night, they all wore pleasant and approving countenances, and the
beautiful family often came from Heaven to visit their father in his dreams. He did not wish,
much less hope, in this life, for such happiness as had once been his--nor did Alice Gray,
even for one hour, imagine that such happiness it was in her power to bestow. They knew each
other's hearts--what they had suffered and survived; and, since the meridian of life and joy
was gone, they were contented with the pensive twilight.

Look, there is a pretty Cottage--by name LEASIDE--one that might almost do for a painter--just
sufficiently shaded by trees, and showing a new aspect every step you take, and each new aspect
beautiful. There is, it is true, neither moss, nor lichens, nor weather-stains on the roof--but
all is smooth, neat, trim, deep thatch, from rigging to eaves, with a picturesque elevated
window covered with the same material, and all the walls white as snow. The whole building
is at all times as fresh as if just washed by a vernal shower. Competence breathes from every
lattice, and that porch has been reared more for ornament than defence, although, no doubt,
it is useful both in March and November winds. Every field about it is like a garden, and yet
the garden is brightly conspicuous amidst all the surrounding cultivation. The hedgerows are
all clipped, for they have grown there for many and many a year; and the shears were necessary
to keep them down from shutting out the vista of the lovely vale. That is the dwelling of Adam
Airlie the Elder. Happy old man! This life has gone uniformly well with him and his; yet, had
it been otherwise, there is a power in his spirit that would have sustained the severest inflictions
of Providence. His gratitude to God is something solemn and awful, and ever accompanied with
a profound sense of his utter unworthiness of all the long-continued mercies vouchsafed to
his family. His own happiness, prolonged to a great age, has not closed within his heart one
source of pity or affection for his brethren of mankind. In his own guiltless conscience, guiltless
before man, he yet feels incessantly the frailties of his nature, and is meek, humble, and
penitent as the greatest sinner. He, his wife, an old faithful female-servant, and an occasional
granddaughter, now form the whole household. His three sons have all prospered in the world.
The eldest went abroad when a mere boy, and many fears went with him--a bold, adventurous,
and somewhat reckless creature. But consideration came to him in a foreign climate, and tamed
down his ardent mind to a thoughtful, not a selfish prudence. Twenty years he lived in India--and
what a blessed day was the day of his return! Yet in the prime of life, by disease unbroken,
and with a heart full to overflowing with all its old sacred affections, he came back to his
father's lowly cottage, and wept as he crossed the threshold. His parents needed not any of
his wealth; but they were blamelessly proud, nevertheless, of his honest acquisitions--proud
when he became a landholder in his native parish, and employed the sons of his old companions,
and some of his old companions themselves, in the building of his unostentatious mansion, or
in cultivating the wild but not unlovely moor, which was dear to him for the sake of the countless
remembrances that clothed the bare banks of its lochs, and murmured in the little stream that
ran among the pastoral braes. The new mansion is a couple of miles from his parental Cottage;
but not a week, indeed seldom half that time, elapses, without a visit to that dear dwelling.
They likewise not unfrequently visit him--for his wife is dear to them as a daughter of their
own; and the ancient couple delight in the noise and laughter of his pretty flock. Yet the
son understands perfectly well that the aged people love best their own roof--and that its
familiar quiet is every day dearer to their habituated affections. Therefore he makes no parade
of filial tenderness--forces nothing new upon them--is glad to see the uninterrupted tenor
of their humble happiness; and if they are proud of him, which all the parish knows, so is
there not a child within its bounds that does not know that Mr Airlie, the rich gentleman from
India, loves his poor father and mother as tenderly as if he had never left their roof; and
is prouder of them, too, than if they were clothed in fine raiment, and fared sumptuously every
day. Mr Airlie of the Mount has his own seat in the gallery of the Kirk--his father, as an
Elder, sits below the pulpit--but occasionally the pious and proud son joins his mother in
the pew, where he and his brothers sat long ago; and every Sabbath one or other of his children
takes its place beside the venerated matron. The old man generally leaves the churchyard leaning
on his Gilbert's arm--and although the sight has long been so common as to draw no attention,
yet no doubt there is always an under and unconscious pleasure in many a mind witnessing the
sacredness of the bond of blood. Now and then the old matron is prevailed upon, when the weather
is bad and roads miry, to take a seat home in the carriage--but the Elder always prefers walking
thither with his son, and he is stout and hale, although upwards of threescore and ten years.

Walter, the second son, is now a captain in the navy, having served for years before the mast.
His mind is in his profession, and he is perpetually complaining of being unemployed--a ship--a
ship, is still the burden of his song. But when at home--which he often is for weeks together--he
attaches himself to all the ongoings of rural life, as devotedly as if a plougher of the soil
instead of the sea. His mother wonders, with tears in her eyes, why, having a competency, he
should still wish to provoke the dangers of the deep; and beseeches him sometimes to become
a farmer in his native vale. And perhaps more improbable things have happened; for the captain,
it is said, has fallen desperately in love with the daughter of the clergyman of a neighbouring
parish, and the doctor will not give his consent to the marriage, unless he promise to live,
if allowed, on shore. The political state of Europe certainly seems at present favourable to
the consummation of the wishes of all parties.

Of David, the third son, who has not heard, that has heard anything of the pulpit eloquence
of Scotland?--Should his life be spared, there can be no doubt that he will one day or other
be Moderator of the General Assembly, perhaps Professor of Divinity in a College. Be that as
it may, a better Christian never expounded the truths of the gospel, although some folks pretend
to say that he is not evangelical. He is, however, beloved by the poor--the orphan and the
widow; and his ministrations, powerful in the kirk to a devoutly listening congregation, are
so too at the sick-bed, when only two or three are gathered around it, and when the dying man
feels how a fellow-creature can, by scriptural aids, strengthen his trust in the mercy of his
Maker.

Every year, on the birthday of each of their sons, the old people hold a festival--in May,
in August, and at Christmas. The sailor alone looks disconsolate as a bachelor, but that reproach
will be wiped away before autumn; and should God grant the cottagers a few more years, some
new faces will yet smile upon the holidays; and there is in their unwithered hearts warm love
enough for all that may join the party. We too--yes, gentle reader--we too shall be there--as
we have often been during the last ten years--and you yourself will judge, from all you know
of us, whether or no we have a heart to understand and enjoy such rare felicity.

But let us be off to the mountains, and endeavour to interest our beloved reader in a Highland
Cottage--in any one, taken at hap-hazard, from a hundred. You have been roaming all day among
the mountains, and perhaps seen no house except at a dwindling distance. Probably you have
wished not to see any house, but a ruined shieling--a deserted hut--or an unroofed and dilapidated
shed for the outlying cattle of some remote farm. But now the sun has inflamed all the western
heaven, and darkness will soon descend. There is now a muteness more stern and solemn than
during unfaded daylight. List--the faint, far-off, subterranean sound of the bagpipe! Some
old soldier, probably, playing a gathering or a coronach. The narrow dell widens and widens
into a great glen, in which you just discern the blue gleam of a loch. The martial music is
more distinctly heard--loud, fitful, fierce, like the trampling of men in battle. Where is
the piper? In a cave, or within the Fairies' Knowe? At the door of a hut. His eyes were extinguished
by ophthalmia, and there he sits, fronting the sunlight, stone-blind. Long silver hair flows
down his broad shoulders, and you perceive that, when he rises, he will rear up a stately bulk.
The music stops, and you hear the bleating of goats. There they come, prancing down the rocks,
and stare upon the stranger. The old soldier turns himself towards the voice of the Sassenach,
and, with the bold courtesy of the camp, bids him enter the hut. One minute's view has sufficed
to imprint the scene for ever on the memory--a hut whose turf walls and roof are incorporated
with the living mountain, and seem not the work of man's hand, but the casual architecture
of some convulsion--the tumbling down of fragments from the mountain-side by raging torrents,
or a partial earthquake; for all the scenery about is torn to pieces--like the scattering of
some wide ruin. The imagination dreams of the earliest days of our race, when men harboured,
like the other creatures, in places provided by nature. But even here, there are visible traces
of cultivation working in the spirit of a mountainous region--a few glades of the purest verdure
opened out among the tall brackens, with a birch-tree or two dropped just where the eye of
taste could have wished, had the painter planted the sapling, instead of the winds of heaven
having wafted thither the seed--a small croft of barley, surrounded by a cairn-like wall made
up of stones cleared from the soil, and a patch of potato ground, neat almost as the garden
that shows in a nook its fruit-bushes and a few flowers. All the blasts that ever blew must
be unavailing against the briery rock that shelters the hut from the airt of storms; and the
smoke may rise under its lee, unwavering on the windiest day. There is sweetness in all the
air, and the glen is noiseless, except with the uncertain murmur of the now unswollen waterfalls.
That is the croak of the raven sitting on his cliff half-way up Ben-Oura; and hark, the last
belling of the red-deer, as the herd lies down in the mist among the last ridge of heather,
blending with the shrubless stones, rocks, and cliffs that girdle the upper regions of the
vast mountain.

Within the dimness of the hut you hear greetings in the Gaelic tongue, in a female voice; and
when the eye has by-and-by become able to endure the smoke, it discerns the household--the
veteran's ancient dame--a young man that may be his son, or rather his grandson, but whom you
soon know to be neither, with black matted locks, the keen eye, and the light limbs of the
hunter--a young woman, his wife, suckling a child, and yet with a girlish look, as if but one
year before her silken snood had been untied--and a lassie of ten years, who had brought home
the goats, and now sits timidly in a nook eyeing the stranger. The low growl of the huge brindled
stag-hound had been hushed by a word on your first entrance, and the noble animal watches his
master's eye, which he obeys in his freedom throughout all the forest-chase. A napkin is taken
out of an old worm-eaten chest, and spread over a strangely-carved table, that seems to have
belonged once to a place of pride; and the hungry and thirsty stranger scarcely knows which
most to admire, the broad bannocks of barley-meal and the huge roll of butter, or the giant
bottle, whose mouth exhales the strong savour of conquering Glenlivet. The board is spread--why
not fall to and eat? First be thanks given to the Lord God Almighty. The blind man holds up
his hand and prays in a low chanting voice, and then breaks bread for the lips of the stranger.
On such an occasion is felt the sanctity of the meal shared by human beings brought accidentally
together--the salt is sacred--and the hearth an altar.

No great travellers are we, yet have we seen something of this habitable globe. The Highlands
of Scotland is but a small region, nor is its interior by any means so remote as the interior
of Africa. Yet 'tis remote. The life of that very blind veteran might, in better hands than
ours, make an interesting history. In his youth he had been a shepherd--a herdsman--a hunter--something
even of a poet. For thirty years he had been a soldier--in many climates and many conflicts.
Since first he bloodied his bayonet, how many of his comrades had been buried in heaps! Flung
into trenches dug on the field of battle! How many famous captains had shone in the blaze of
their fame--faded into the light of common day--died in obscurity, and been utterly forgotten!
What fierce passions must have agitated the frame of that now calm old man! On what dreadful
scenes, when forts and towns were taken by storm, must those eyes, now withered into nothing,
have glared with all the fury of man's most wrathful soul! Now peace is with him for evermore.
Nothing to speak of the din of battle, but his own pipes wailing or raging among the hollow
of the mountains. In relation to his campaigning career, his present life is as the life of
another state. The pageantry of war has all rolled off and away for ever; all its actions but
phantoms now of a dimly-remembered dream. He thinks of his former self, as sergeant in the
Black Watch, and almost imagines he beholds another man. In his long, long blindness, he has
created another world to himself out of new voices--the voices of new generations, and of torrents
thundering all year long round about his hut. Almost all the savage has been tamed within him,
and an awful religion falls deeper and deeper upon him, as he knows how he is nearing the grave.
Often his whole mind is dim, for he is exceedingly old, and then he sees only fragments of
his youthful life--the last forty years are as if they had never been--and he hears shouts
and huzzas, that half a century ago rent the air with victory. He can still chant, in a hoarse
broken voice, battle-hymns and dirges; and thus, strangely forgetful and strangely tenacious
of the past, linked to this life by ties that only the mountaineer can know, and yet feeling
himself on the brink of the next, Old Blind Donald Roy, the Giant of the Hut of the Three Torrents,
will not scruple to quaff the "strong waters," till his mind is awakened--brightened--dimmed--darkened--and
seemingly extinguished--till the sunrise again smites him, as he lies in a heap among the heather;
and then he lifts up, unashamed and remorseless, that head, which, with its long quiet hairs,
a painter might choose for the image of a saint about to become a martyr.

We leave old Donald asleep, and go with his son-in-law, Lewis of the light-foot, and Maida
the stag-hound, surnamed the Throttler,

    "Where the hunter of deer and the warrior trod,
      To his hills that encircle the sea."

We have been ascending mountain-range after mountain-range, before sunrise; and lo! night is
gone, and nature rejoices in the day through all her solitudes. Still as death, yet as life
cheerful--and unspeakable grandeur in the sudden revelation. Where is the wild-deer herd?--where,
ask the keen eyes of Maida, is the forest of antlers!--Lewis of the light-foot bounds before,
with his long gun pointing towards the mists now gathered up to the summits of Benevis.

Nightfall--and we are once more at the Hut of the Three Torrents. Small Amy is grown familiar
now, and, almost without being asked, sings us the choicest of her Gaelic airs--a few too of
Lowland melody: all merry, yet all sad--if in smiles begun, ending in a shower--or at least
a tender mist of tears. Heardst thou ever such a syren as this Celtic child? Did we not always
tell you that fairies were indeed realities of the twilight or moonlight world? And she is
their Queen. Hark! what thunders of applause! The waterfall at the head of the great Corrie
thunders encore with a hundred echoes. But the songs are over, and the small singer gone to
her heather-bed. There is a Highland moon!--The shield of an unfallen archangel. There are
not many stars--but those two--ay, that One, is sufficient to sustain the glory of the night.
Be not alarmed at that low, wide, solemn, and melancholy sound. Runlets, torrents, rivers,
lochs, and seas--reeds, heather, forests, caves, and cliffs, all are sound, sounding together
a choral anthem.

Gracious heavens! what mistakes people have fallen into when writing about Solitude! A man
leaves a town for a few months, and goes with his wife and family, and a travelling library,
into some solitary glen. Friends are perpetually visiting him from afar, or the neighbouring
gentry leaving their cards, while his servant-boy rides daily to the post-village for his letters
and newspapers. And call you that solitude? The whole world is with you, morning, noon, and
night. But go by yourself, without book or friend, and live a month in this hut at the head
of Glenevis. Go at dawn among the cliffs of yonder pine-forest, and wait there till night hangs
her moon-lamp in heaven. Commune with your own soul, and be still. Let the images of departed
years rise, phantom-like, of their own awful accord from the darkness of your memory, and pass
away into the wood-gloom or the mountain-mist. Will conscience dread such spectres? Will you
quake before them, and bow down your head on the mossy root of some old oak, and sob in the
stern silence of the haunted place? Thoughts, feelings, passions, spectral deeds, will come
rushing around your lair, as with the sound of the wings of innumerous birds--ay, many of them,
like birds of prey, to gnaw your very heart. How many duties undischarged! How many opportunities
neglected! How many pleasures devoured! How many sins hugged! How many wickednesses perpetrated!
The desert looks more grim--the heaven lowers--and the sun, like God's own eye, stares in upon
your conscience!

But such is not the solitude of our beautiful young shepherd-girl of the Hut of the Three Torrents.
Her soul is as clear, as calm as the pool pictured at times by the floating clouds that let
fall their shadows through among the overhanging birch-trees. What harm could she ever do?
What harm could she ever think? She may have wept--for there is sorrow without sin; may have
wept even at her prayers--for there is penitence free from guilt, and innocence itself often
kneels in contrition. Down the long glen she accompanies the stream to the house of God--sings
her psalms--and returns wearied to her heather-bed. She is, indeed, a solitary child; the eagle,
and the raven, and the red-deer see that she is so--and echo knows it when from her airy cliff
she repeats the happy creature's song. Her world is within this one glen. In this one glen
she may live all her days--be wooed, won, wedded, buried. Buried--said we? Oh, why think of
burial when gazing on that resplendent head? Interminable tracts of the shining day await her,
the lonely darling of nature; nor dare Time ever eclipse the lustre of those wild-beaming eyes!
Her beauty shall be immortal, like that of her country's fairies. So, Flower of the Wilderness,
we wave towards thee a joyful--though an everlasting farewell.

Where are we now? There is not on this round green earth a lovelier Loch than Achray. About
a mile above Loch Vennachar, and as we approach the Brigg of Turk, we arrive at the summit
of an eminence, whence we descry the sudden and wide prospect of the windings of the river
that issues from Loch Achray--and the Loch itself reposing--sleeping--dreaming on its pastoral,
its sylvan bed. Achray, being interpreted, signifies the "Level Field," and gives its name
to a delightful farm at the west end. On "that happy, rural seat of various view," could we
lie all day long; and as all the beauty tends towards the west, each afternoon hour deepens
and also brightens it into mellower splendour. Not to keep constantly seeing the lovely Loch
is indeed impossible--yet its still waters soothe the soul, without holding it away from the
woods and cliffs, that, forming of themselves a perfect picture, are yet all united with the
mountainous region of the setting sun. Many long years have elapsed--at our time of life ten
are many--since we passed one delightful evening in the hospitable house that stands near the
wooden bridge over the Teith, just wheeling into Loch Achray. What a wilderness of wooded rocks,
containing a thousand little mossy glens, each large enough for a fairy's kingdom! Between
and Loch Katrine is the Place of Roes--nor need the angler try to penetrate the underwood;
for every shallow, every linn, every pool is overshaded by its own canopy, and the living fly
and moth alone ever dip their wings in the checkered waters. Safe there are all the little
singing-birds from hawk or gled--and it is indeed an Aviary in the wild. Pine-groves stand
here and there amid the natural woods--and among their tall gloom the cushat sits crooning
in beloved solitude, rarely startled by human footstep, and bearing at his own pleasure through
the forest the sound of his flapping wings.

But let us rise from the greensward, and before we pace along the sweet shores of Loch Achray,
for its nearest murmur is yet more than a mile off, turn away up from the Brigg of Turk into
Glenfinlas. A strong mountain-torrent, in which a painter, even with the soul of Salvator Rosa,
might find studies inexhaustible for years, tumbles on the left of a ravine, in which a small
band of warriors might stop the march of a numerous host. With what a loud voice it brawls
through the silence, freshening the hazels, the birches, and the oaks, that in that perpetual
spray need not the dew's refreshment. But the savage scene softens as you advance, and you
come out of that sylvan prison into a plain of meadows and cornfields, alive with the peaceful
dwellings of industrious men. Here the bases of the mountains, and even their sides high up,
are without heather--a rich sward, with here and there a deep bed of brackens, and a little
sheep-sheltering grove. Skeletons of old trees of prodigious size lie covered with mosses and
wildflowers, or stand with their barkless trunks and white limbs unmoved when the tempest blows.
Glenfinlas was anciently a deer-forest of the Kings of Scotland; but hunter's horn no more
awakens the echoes of Benledi.

A more beautiful vale never inspired pastoral poet in Arcadia, nor did Sicilian shepherds of
old ever pipe to each other for prize of oaten reed, in a lovelier nook than where yonder cottage
stands, shaded, but scarcely sheltered, by a few birch-trees. It is in truth not a cottage--but
a very SHIELING, part of the knoll adhering to the side of the mountain. Not another dwelling--even
as small as itself--within a mile in any direction. Those goats, that seem to walk where there
is no footing along the side of the cliff, go of themselves to be milked at evening to a house
beyond the hill, without any barking dog to set them home. There are many footpaths, but all
of sheep, except one leading through the coppice-wood to the distant kirk. The angler seldom
disturbs those shallows, and the heron has them to himself, watching often with motionless
neck all day long. Yet the Shieling is inhabited, and has been so by the same person for a
good many years. You might look at it for hours, and yet see no one so much as moving to the
door. But a little smoke hovers over it--very faint if it be smoke at all--and nothing else
tells that within is life.

It is inhabited by a widow, who once was the happiest of wives, and lived far down the glen,
where it is richly cultivated, in a house astir with many children. It so happened, that in
the course of nature, without any extraordinary bereavements, she outlived all the household,
except one, on whom fell the saddest affliction that can befall a human being--the utter loss
of reason. For some years after the death of her husband, and all her other children, this
son was her support; and there was no occasion to pity them in their poverty, where all were
poor. Her natural cheerfulness never forsook her; and although fallen back in the world, and
obliged in her age to live without many comforts she once had known, yet all the past gradually
was softened into peace, and the widow and her son were in that shieling as happy as any family
in the parish. He worked at all kinds of work without, and she sat spinning from morning to
night within--a constant occupation, soothing to one before whose mind past times might otherwise
have come too often, and that creates contentment by its undisturbed sameness and invisible
progression. If not always at meals, the widow saw her son for an hour or two every night,
and throughout the whole Sabbath-day. They slept, too, under one roof; and she liked the stormy
weather when the rains were on--for then he found some ingenious employment within the shieling,
or cheered her with some book lent by a friend, or with the lively or plaintive music of his
native hills. Sometimes, in her gratitude, she said that she was happier now than when she
had so many other causes to be so; and when occasionally an acquaintance dropt in upon her,
her face gave a welcome that spoke more than resignation; nor was she averse to partake the
sociality of the other huts, and sat sedate among youthful merriment, when summer or winter
festival came round, and poverty rejoiced in the riches of content and innocence.

But her trials, great as they had been, were not yet over; for this her only son was laid prostrate
by fever--and, when it left his body, he survived hopelessly stricken in mind. His eyes, so
clear and intelligent, were now fixed in idiocy, or rolled about unobservant of all objects
living or dead. To him all weather seemed the same, and if suffered, he would have lain down
like a creature void of understanding, in rain or on snow, nor been able to find his way back
for many paces from the hut. As all thought and feeling had left him, so had speech, all but
a moaning as of pain or woe, which none but a mother could bear to hear without shuddering--but
she heard it during night as well as day, and only sometimes lifted up her eyes as in prayer
to God. An offer was made to send him to a place where the afflicted were taken care of; but
she beseeched charity for the first time for such alms as would enable her, along with the
earnings of her wheel, to keep her son in the shieling; and the means were given her from many
quarters to do so decently, and with all the comforts that other eyes observed, but of which
the poor object himself was insensible and unconscious. Henceforth, it may almost be said,
she never more saw the sun, nor heard the torrents roar. She went not to the kirk, but kept
her Sabbath where the paralytic lay--and there she sung the lonely psalm, and said the lonely
prayer, unheard in Heaven as many repining spirits would have thought--but it was not so; for
in two years there came a meaning to his eyes, and he found a few words of imperfect speech,
among which was that of "Mother." Oh! how her heart burned within her, to know that her face
was at last recognised! To feel that her kiss was returned, and to see the first tear that
trickled from eyes that long had ceased to weep! Day after day, the darkness that covered his
brain grew less and less deep--to her that bewilderment gave the blessedness of hope; for her
son now knew that he had an immortal soul, and in the evening joined faintly and feebly and
erringly in prayer. For weeks afterwards he remembered only events and scenes long past and
distant--and believed that his father, and all his brothers and sisters, were yet alive. He
called upon them by their names to come and kiss him--on them, who had all long been buried
in the dust. But his soul struggled itself into reason and remembrance--and he at last said,
"Mother! did some accident befall me yesterday at my work down the glen?--I feel weak, and
about to die!" The shadows of death were indeed around him; but he lived to be told much of
what had happened--and rendered up a perfectly unclouded spirit into the mercy of his Saviour.
His mother felt that all her prayers had been granted in that one boon--and, when the coffin
was borne away from the shieling, she remained in it with a friend, assured that in this world
there could for her be no more grief. And there in that same shieling, now that years have
gone by, she still lingers, visited as often as she wishes by her poor neighbours--for to the
poor sorrow is a sacred thing--who, by turns, send one of their daughters to stay with her,
and cheer a life that cannot be long, but that, end when it may, will be laid down without
one impious misgiving, and in the humility of a Christian's faith.

The scene shifts of itself, and we are at the head of Glenetive. Who among all the Highland
maidens that danced on the greenswards among the blooming heather on the mountains of Glenetive--who
so fair as Flora, the only daughter of the King's Forester, and grandchild to the Bard famous
for his songs of Fairies in the Hill of Peace, and the Mermaid-Queen in her Palace of Emerald
floating far down beneath the foam-waves of the sea? And who, among all the Highland youth
that went abroad to the bloody wars from the base of Benevis, to compare with Ranald of the
Red-Cliff, whose sires had been soldiers for centuries, in the days of the dagger and Lochaber
axe--stately in his strength amid the battle as the oak in a storm, but gentle in peace as
the birch-tree, that whispers with all its leaves to the slightest summer-breath? If their
love was great when often fed at the light of each other's eyes, what was it when Ranald was
far off among the sands of Egypt, and Flora left an orphan to pine away in her native glen?
Beneath the shadow of the Pyramids he dreamt of Dalness and the deer forest, that was the dwelling
of his love--and she, as she stood by the murmurs of that sea-loch, longed for the wings of
the osprey, that she might flee away to the war-tents beyond the ocean, and be at rest!

But years--a few years--long and lingering as they might seem to loving hearts separated by
the roar of seas--yet all too too short when 'tis thought how small a number lead from the
cradle to the grave--brought Ranald and Flora once more into each other's arms. Alas! for the
poor soldier! for never more was he to behold that face from which he kissed the trickling
tears. Like many another gallant youth, he had lost his eyesight from the sharp burning sand--and
was led to the shieling of his love like a wandering mendicant who obeys the hand of a child.
Nor did his face bear that smile of resignation usually so affecting on the calm countenances
of the blind. Seldom did he speak--and his sighs were deeper, longer, and more disturbed than
those which almost any sorrow ever wrings from the young. Could it be that he groaned in remorse
over some secret crime?

Happy--completely happy, would Flora have been to have tended him like a sister all his dark
life long, or, like a daughter, to have sat beside the bed of one whose hair was getting fast
grey, long before its time. Almost all her relations were dead, and almost all her friends
away to other glens. But he had returned, and blindness, for which there was no hope, must
bind his steps for ever within little room. But they had been betrothed almost from their childhood,
and would she--if he desired it--fear to become his wife now, shrouded as he was, now and for
ever, in the helpless dark? From his lips, however, her maidenly modesty required that the
words should come; nor could she sometimes help wondering, in half-upbraiding sorrow, that
Ranald joyed not in his great affliction to claim her for his wife. Poor were they to be sure--yet
not so poor as to leave life without its comforts; and in every glen of her native Highlands,
were there not worthy families far poorer than they? But weeks, months, passed on, and Ranald
remained in a neighbouring hut, shunning the sunshine, and moaning, it was said, when he thought
none were near, both night and day. Sometimes he had been overheard muttering to himself lamentable
words--and, blind as his eyes were to all the objects of the real world, it was rumoured up
and down the glen, that he saw visions of woeful events about to befall one whom he loved.

One midnight he found his way, unguided, like a man walking in his sleep--but although in a
hideous trance, he was yet broad awake--to the hut where Flora dwelt, and called on her, in
a dirge-like voice, to speak a few words with him ere he died. They sat down together among
the heather, on the very spot where the farewell embrace had been given the morning he went
away to the wars; and Flora's heart died within her, when he told her that the Curse under
which his forefathers had suffered, had fallen upon him; and that he had seen his wraith pass
by in a shroud, and heard a voice whisper the very day he was to die.

And was it Ranald of the Red-Cliff, the bravest of the brave, that thus shuddered in the fear
of death like a felon at the tolling of the great prison-bell? Ay, death is dreadful when foreseen
by a ghastly superstition. He felt the shroud already bound round his limbs and body with gentle
folds, beyond the power of a giant to burst; and day and night the same vision yawned before
him--an open grave in the corner of the hill burial-ground without any kirk.

Flora knew that his days were indeed numbered; for when had he ever been afraid of death--and
could his spirit have quailed thus under a mere common dream? Soon was she to be all alone
in this world; yet when Ranald should die, she felt that her own days would not be many, and
there was sudden and strong comfort in the belief that they would be buried in one grave.

Such were her words to the dying man; and all at once he took her in his arms, and asked her
"If she had no fears of the narrow house?" His whole nature seemed to undergo a change under
the calm voice of her reply; and he said, "Dost thou fear not then, my Flora, to hear the words
of doom?" "Blessed will they be, if in death we be not disunited." "Thou too, my wife--for
my wife thou now art on earth, and mayest be so in heaven--thou too, Flora, wert seen shrouded
in that apparition." It was a gentle and gracious summer night--so clear, that the shepherds
on the hills were scarcely sensible of the morning's dawn. And there at earliest daylight,
were Ranald and Flora found, on the greensward, among the tall heather, lying side by side,
with their calm faces up to heaven, and never more to smile or weep in this mortal world.

AN HOUR'S TALK ABOUT POETRY.

Ours is a poetical age; but has it produced one Great Poem? Not one.

Just look at them for a moment. There is "The Pleasures of Memory"--an elegant, graceful, beautiful,
pensive, and pathetic poem, which it does one's eyes good to gaze on--one's ears good to listen
to--one's very fingers good to touch, so smooth is the versification and the wire-wove paper.
Never will "The Pleasures of Memory" be forgotten till the world is in its dotage. But is it
a Great Poem? About as much so as an ant-hill, prettily grass-grown and leaf-strewn, is a mountain
purple with heather and golden with woods. It is a symmetrical erection--in the shape of a
cone--and the apex points heavenwards; but 'tis not a sky-piercer. You take it at a hop--and
pursue your journey. Yet it endures. For the rains and the dews, and the airs and the sunshine,
love the fairy knoll, and there it greens and blossoms delicately and delightfully; you hardly
know whether a work of art or a work of nature.

Then there is the poetry of Crabbe. We hear it is not very popular. If so, then neither is
human life. For of all our poets, he has most skilfully woven the web and woven the woof of
all his compositions with the materials of human life--homespun indeed; but though often coarse,
always strong--and though set to plain patterns, yet not unfrequently exceeding fine is the
old weaver's workmanship. Ay--hold up the product of his loom between your eye and the light,
and it glows and glimmers like the peacock's back or the breast of the rainbow. Sometimes it
seems to be but of the "hodden grey;" when sunbeam or shadow smites it, and lo! it is burnished
like the regal purple. But did the Boroughmonger ever produce a Great Poem? You might as well
ask if he built St Paul's.

Breathes not the man with a more poetical temperament than Bowles. No wonder that his old eyes
are still so lustrous; for they possess the sacred gift of beautifying creation, by shedding
over it the charm of melancholy. "Pleasant but mournful to the soul is the memory of joys that
are past"--is the text we should choose were we about to preach on his genius. No vain repinings,
no idle regrets, does his spirit now breathe over the still receding Past. But time-sanctified
are all the shows that arise before his pensive imagination; and the common light of day, once
gone, in his poetry seems to shine as if it had all been dying sunset or moonlight, or the
new-born dawn. His human sensibilities are so fine as to be in themselves poetical; and his
poetical aspirations so delicate as to be felt always human. Hence his Sonnets have been dear
to poets--having in them "more than meets the ear"--spiritual breathings that hang around the
words like light around fair flowers; and hence, too, have they been beloved by all natural
hearts who, having not the "faculty divine," have yet the "vision"--that is, the power of seeing
and of hearing the sights and the sounds which genius alone can awaken, bringing them from
afar out of the dust and dimness of evanishment.

Mr Bowles has been a poet for good fifty years; and if his genius do not burn quite so bright
as it did some lustres bygone--yet we do not say there is any abatement even of its brightness:
it shines with a mellower and also with a more cheerful light. Long ago, he was perhaps rather
too pensive--too melancholy--too pathetic--too woe-begone--in too great bereavement. Like the
nightingale, he sang with a thorn at his breast--from which one wondered the point had not
been broken off by perpetual pressure. Yet, though rather monotonous, his strains were most
musical as well as melancholy; feeling was often relieved by fancy; and one dreamed, in listening
to his elegies, and hymns, and sonnets, of moonlit rivers flowing through hoary woods, and
of the yellow sands of dim-imaged seas murmuring round "the shores of old Romance." A fine
enthusiasm too was his--in those youthful years--inspired by the poetry of Greece and Rome;
and in some of his happiest inspirations there was a delightful and original union--to be found
nowhere else that we can remember--of the spirit of that ancient song,--the pure classical
spirit that murmured by the banks of the Eurotas and Ilissus, with that of our own poetry,
that like a noble Naiad dwells in the "clear well of English undefiled." In almost all his
strains you felt the scholar; but his was no affected or pedantic scholarship--intrusive most
when least required; but the growth of a consummate classical education, of which the career
was not inglorious among the towers of Oxford. Bowles was a pupil of the Wartons--Joe and Tom--God
bless their souls!--and his name may be joined, not unworthily, with theirs--and with Mason's,
and Gray's, and Collins'--academics all; the works of them all showing a delicate and exquisite
colouring of classical art, enriching their own English nature. Bowles's muse is always loth
to forget--wherever she roam or linger--Winchester and Oxford--the Itchin and the Isis. None
educated in those delightful and divine haunts will ever forget them, who can read Homer, and
Pindar, and Sophocles, and Theocritus, and Bion, and Moschus, in the original; Rhedicyna's
ungrateful or renegade sons are those alone who pursued their poetical studies--in translations.
They never knew the nature of the true old Greek fire.

But has Bowles written a Great Poem? If he has, publish it, and we shall make him a Bishop.

What shall we say of "The Pleasures of Hope?" That the harp from which that music breathed,
was an Æolian harp placed in the window of a high hall, to catch airs from heaven when heaven
was glad, as well she might be with such moon and such stars, and streamering half the region
with a magnificent aurora-borealis. Now the music deepens into a majestic march--now it swells
into a holy hymn--and now it dies away elegiac-like, as if mourning over a tomb. Vague, indefinite,
uncertain, dream-like, and visionary all; but never else than beautiful; and ever and anon,
we know not why, sublime. It ceases in the hush of night--and we awaken as if from a dream.
Is it not even so?--In his youth Campbell lived where "distant isles could hear the loud Corbrechtan
roar;" and sometimes his poetry is like that whirlpool--the sound as of the wheels of many
chariots. Yes, happy was it for him that he had liberty to roam along the many-based, hollow-rumbling
western coast of that unaccountable county Argyllshire. The sea-roar cultivated his naturally
fine musical ear, and it sank too into his heart. Hence is his prime Poem bright with hope
as is the sunny sea when sailors' sweethearts on the shore are looking out for ships; and from
a foreign station down comes the fleet before the wind, and the very shells beneath their footsteps
seem to sing for joy. As for Gertrude of Wyoming, we love her as if she were our own only daughter--filling
our life with bliss, and then leaving it desolate. Even now we see her ghost gliding through
those giant woods! As for "Lochiel's Warning," there was heard the voice of the Last of the
Seers. The Second Sight is now extinguished in the Highland glooms--the Lament wails no more,

    "That man may not hide what God would reveal!"

The Navy owes much to "Ye Mariners of England." Sheer hulks often seemed ships till that strain
arose--but ever since in our imagination have they brightened the roaring ocean. And dare we
say, after that, that Campbell has never written a Great Poem? Yes--in the face even of the
Metropolitan!

It was said many long years ago in the Edinburgh Review, that none but maudlin milliners and
sentimental ensigns supposed that James Montgomery was a poet. Then is Maga a maudlin milliner--and
Christopher North a sentimental ensign. We once called Montgomery a Moravian; and though he
assures us that we were mistaken, yet having made an assertion, we always stick to it, and
therefore he must remain a Moravian, if not in his own belief, yet in ours. Of all religious
sects, the Moravians are the most simple-minded, pure-hearted, and high-souled--and these qualities
shine serenely in "The Pelican Island." In earnestness and fervour, that poem is by few or
none excelled; it is embalmed in sincerity, and therefore shall fade not away, neither shall
it moulder--not even although exposed to the air, and blow the air ever so rudely through time's
mutations. Not that it is a mummy. Say rather a fair form laid asleep in immortality--its face
wearing, day and night, summer and winter, look at it when you will, a saintly--a celestial
smile. That is a true image; but is "The Pelican Island" a Great Poem? We pause not for a reply.

Lyrical Poetry, we opine, hath many branches--and one of them, "beautiful exceedingly" withbud,
blossom, and fruit of balm and brightness, round which is ever heard the murmur of bees and
of birds, hangs trailingly along the mossy greensward when the air is calm, and ever and anon,
when blow the fitful breezes, it is uplifted in the sunshine, and glows wavingly aloft, as
if it belonged even to the loftiest region of the Tree which is Amaranth. That is a fanciful,
perhaps foolish form of expression, employed at present to signify Song-writing. Now, of all
the song-writers that ever warbled, or chanted, or sung, the best, in our estimation, is verily
none other than Thomas Moore. True that Robert Burns has indited many songs that slip into
the heart, just like light, no one knows how, filling its chambers sweetly and silently, and
leaving it nothing more to desire for perfect contentment. Or let us say, sometimes when he
sings, it is like listening to a linnet in the broom, a blackbird in the brake, a laverock
in the sky. They sing in the fulness of their joy, as nature teaches them--and so did he; and
the man, woman, or child, who is delighted not with such singing, be their virtues what they
may, must never hope to be in Heaven. Gracious Providence placed Burns in the midst of the
sources of Lyrical Poetry--when he was born a Scottish peasant. Now, Moore is an Irishman,
and was born in Dublin. Moore is a Greek scholar, and translated--after a fashion--Anacreon.
And Moore has lived much in towns and cities--and in that society which will suffer none else
to be called good. Some advantages he has enjoyed which Burns never did--but then how many
disadvantages has he undergone, from which the Ayrshire Ploughman, in the bondage of his poverty,
was free! You see all that at a single glance in their poetry. But all in humble life is not
high--all in high life is not low; and there is as much to guard against in hovel as in hall--in
"auld clay-bigging" as in marble palace. Burns sometimes wrote like a mere boor--Moore has
too often written like a mere man of fashion. But take them both at their best--and both are
inimitable. Both are national poets--and who shall say, that if Moore had been born and bred
a peasant, as Burns was, and if Ireland had been such a land of knowledge, and virtue, and
religion as Scotland is--and surely, without offence, we may say that it never was, and never
will be--though we love the Green Island well--that with his fine fancy, warm heart, and exquisite
sensibilities, he might not have been as natural a lyrist as Burns; while, take him as he is,
who can deny that in richness, in variety, in grace, and in the power of art, he is superior
to the ploughman. Of "Lalla Rookh" and "The Loves of the Angels," we defy you to read a page
without admiration; but the question recurs, and it is easily answered, we need not say in
the negative, did Moore ever write a Great Poem?

Let us make a tour of the Lakes. Rydal Mount! Wordsworth! The Bard! Here is the man who has
devoted his whole life to poetry. It is his profession. He is a poet just as his brother is
a clergyman. He is the Head of the Lake School, just as his brother is Master of Trinity. Nothing
in this life and in this world has he had to do, beneath sun, moon, and stars, but

    "To murmur by the living brooks
    A music sweeter than their own."

What has been the result? Seven volumes (oh! why not seven more?) of poetry, as beautiful as
ever charmed the ears of Pan and of Apollo. The earth--the middle air--the sky--the heaven--the
heart, mind, and soul of man--are "the haunt and main region of his song." In describing external
nature as she is, no poet perhaps has excelled Wordsworth--not even Thomson; in imbuing her
and making her pregnant with spiritualities, till the mighty mother teems with "beauty far
more beauteous" than she had ever rejoiced in till such communion--he excels all the brotherhood.
Therein lies his especial glory, and therein the immortal evidences of the might of his creative
imagination. All men at times "muse on nature with a poet's eye,"--but Wordsworth ever--and
his soul has grown more and more religious from such worship. Every rock is an altar--every
grove a shrine. We fear that there will be sectarians even in this Natural Religion till the
end of time. But he is the High Priest of Nature--or, to use his own words, or nearly so, he
is the High Priest "in the metropolitan temple built in the heart of mighty poets." But has
he--even he--ever written a Great Poem? If he has--it is not "The Excursion." Nay, "The Excursion"
is not a Poem. It is a Series of Poems, all swimming in the light of poetry; some of them sweet
and simple, some elegant and graceful, some beautiful and most lovely, some of "strength and
state," some majestic, some magnificent, some sublime. But though it has an opening, it has
no beginning; you can discover the middle only by the numerals on the page; and the most, serious
apprehensions have been very generally entertained that it has no end. While Pedlar, Poet,
and Solitary breathe the vital air, may "The Excursion," stop where it will, be renewed; and
as in its present shape it comprehends but a Three Days' Walk, we have but to think of an Excursion
of three weeks, three months, or three years, to have some idea of Eternity. Then the life
of man is not always limited to the term of threescore and ten years. What a Journal might
it prove at last! Poetry in profusion till the land overflowed; but whether in one volume,
as now, or in fifty, in future, not a Great Poem--nay, not a Poem at all--nor ever to be so
esteemed, till the principles on which Great Poets build the lofty rhyme are exploded, and
the very names of Art and Science smothered and lost in the bosom of Nature from which they arose.

Let the dullest clod that ever vegetated, provided only he be alive and hear, be shut up in
a room with Coleridge, or in a wood, and subjected for a few minutes to the ethereal influence
of that wonderful man's monologue, and he will begin to believe himself a Poet. The barren
wilderness may not blossom like the rose, but it will seem, or rather feel to do so, under
the lustre of an imagination exhaustless as the sun. You may have seen perhaps rocks suddenly
so glorified by sunlight with colours manifold, that the bees seek them, deluded by the show
of flowers. The sun, you know, does not always show his orb even in the daytime--and people
are often ignorant of his place in the firmament. But he keeps shining away at his leisure,
as you would know were he to suffer eclipse. Perhaps he--the sun--is at no other time a more
delightful luminary than when he is pleased to dispense his influence through a general haze,
or mist--softening all the day till meridian is almost like the afternoon, and the grove, anticipating
gloaming, bursts into "dance and minstrelsy" ere the god go down into the sea. Clouds too become
him well--whether thin and fleecy and braided, or piled up all round about him castle-wise
and cathedral-fashion, to say nothing of temples and other metropolitan structures; nor is
it reasonable to find fault with him, when, as naked as the hour he was born, "he flames on
the forehead of the morning sky." The grandeur too of his appearance on setting, has become
quite proverbial. Now in all this he resembles Coleridge. It is easy to talk--not very difficult
to speechify--hard to speak; but to "discourse" is a gift rarely bestowed by Heaven on mortal
man. Coleridge has it in perfection. While he is discoursing, the world loses all its commonplaces,
and you and your wife imagine yourself Adam and Eve listening to the affable archangel Raphael
in the Garden of Eden. You would no more dream of wishing him to be mute for a while, than
you would a river that "imposes silence with a stilly sound." Whether you understand two consecutive
sentences, we shall not stop too curiously to inquire; but you do something better, you feel
the whole just like any other divine music. And 'tis your own fault if you do not

    "A wiser and a better man arise to-morrow's morn."

Reason is said to be one faculty, and Imagination another--but there cannot be a grosser mistake;
they are one and indivisible; only in most cases they live like cat and dog, in mutual worrying,
or haply sue for a divorce; whereas in the case of Coleridge they are one spirit as well as
one flesh, and keep billing and cooing in a perpetual honeymoon. Then his mind is learned in
all the learning of the Egyptians, as well as the Greeks and Romans; and though we have heard
simpletons say that he knows nothing of science, we have heard him on chemistry puzzle Sir
Humphrey Davy--and prove to his own entire satisfaction, that Leibnitz and Newton, though good
men, were but indifferent astronomers. Besides, he thinks nothing of inventing a new science,
with a complete nomenclature, in a twinkling--and should you seem sluggish of apprehension,
he endows you with an additional sense or two, over and above the usual seven, till you are
no longer at a loss, be it even to scent the music of fragrance, or to hear the smell of a
balmy piece of poetry. All the faculties, both of soul and sense, seem amicably to interchange
their functions and their provinces; and you fear not that the dream may dissolve, persuaded
that you are in a future state of permanent enjoyment. Nor are we now using any exaggeration;
for if you will but think how unutterably dull are all the ordinary sayings and doings of this
life, spent as it is with ordinary people, you may imagine how in sweet delirium you may be
robbed of yourself by a seraphic tongue that has fed since first it lisped on "honey-dew,"
and by lips that have "breathed the air of Paradise," and learned a seraphic language, which,
all the while that it is English, is as grand as Greek and as soft as Italian. We only know
this, that Coleridge is the alchymist that in his crucible melts down hours to moments--and
lo! diamonds sprinkled on a plate of gold.

What a world would this be were all its inhabitants to fiddle like Paganini, ride like Ducrow,
discourse like Coleridge, and do everything else in a style of equal perfection! But pray,
how does the man write poetry with a pen upon paper, who thus is perpetually pouring it from
his inspired lips? Read "The Ancient Mariner," "The Nightingale," and "Genevieve."

Has Coleridge, then, ever written a Great Poem? No; for besides the Regions of the Fair, the
Wild, and the Wonderful, there is another up to which his wing might not soar; though the plumes
are strong as soft. But why should he who loveth to take "the wings of a dove that he may flee
away" to the bosom of beauty, though there never for a moment to be at rest--why should he,
like an eagle, soar into the storms that roll above this visible diurnal sphere in peals of
perpetual thunder?

Wordsworth, somewhere or other, remonstrates, rather angrily, with the Public, against her
obstinate ignorance shown in persisting to put into one class himself, Coleridge, and Southey,
as birds of a feather, that not only flock together but warble the same sort of song. But he
elsewhere tells us that he and Coleridge hold the same principles in the Art Poetical; and
among his Lyrical Ballads he admitted the three finest compositions of his illustrious Compeer.
The Public, therefore, is not to blame in taking him at his word, even if she had discerned
no family likeness in their genius. Southey certainly resembles Wordsworth less than Coleridge
does; but he lives at Keswick, which is but some dozen miles from Rydal, and perhaps with an
unphilosophical though pensive Public that link of connection should be allowed to be sufficient,
even were there no other less patent and material than the Macadamised turnpike road. But true
it is and of verity, that Southey, among our living Poets, stands aloof and "alone in his glory;"
for he alone of them all has adventured to illustrate, in Poems of magnitude, the different
characters, customs, and manners of nations. "Joan of Arc" is an English and French story--"Thalaba,"
Arabian--"Kehama," Indian--"Madoc," Welsh and American--and "Roderick," Spanish and Moorish;
nor would it be easy to say (setting aside the first, which was a very youthful work) in which
of these noble poems Mr Southey has most successfully performed an achievement entirely beyond
the power of any but the highest genius. In "Madoc," and especially in "Roderick," he has relied
on the truth of nature--as it is seen in the history of great national transactions and events.
In "Thalaba" and in "Kehama," though in them, too, he has brought to bear an almost boundless
lore, he follows the leading of Fancy and Imagination, and walks in a world of wonders. Seldom,
if ever, has one and the same Poet exhibited such power in such different kinds of Poetry--in
Truth a Master, and in Fiction a Magician.

It is easy to assert that he draws on his vast stores of knowledge gathered from books--and
that we have but to look at the multifarious accumulation of notes appended to his great Poems
to see that they are not Inventions. The materials of poetry indeed are there--often the raw
materials--seldom more; but the Imagination that moulded them into beautiful, or magnificent,
or wondrous shapes, is all his own--and has shown itself most creative. Southey never was among
the Arabians nor Hindoos, and therefore had to trust to travellers. But had he not been a Poet
he might have read till he was blind, nor ever seen

    "The palm-grove inlanded amid the waste,"

where with Oneiza in her Father's Tent

    "How happily the years of Thalaba went by!"

In what guidance but that of his own genius did he descend with the Destroyer into the Domdaniel
Caves? And who showed him the Swerga's Bowers of Bliss? Who built for him with all its palaces
that submarine City of the Dead, safe in its far-down silence from the superficial thunder
of the sea? The greatness as well as the originality of Southey's genius is seen in the conception
of every one of his Five Chief Works--with the exception of "Joan of Arc," which was written
in very early youth, and is chiefly distinguished by a fine enthusiasm. They are one and all
National Poems--wonderfully true to the customs and characters of the inhabitants of the countries
in which are laid the scenes of all their various adventures and enterprises--and the Poet
has entirely succeeded in investing with an individual interest each representative of a race.
Thalaba is a true Arab--Madoc a true Briton--King Roderick indeed the Last of the Goths. Kehama
is a personage whom we can be made to imagine only in Hindostan. Sir Walter confined himself
in his poetry to Scotland--except in "Rokeby"--and his might then went not with him across
the Border; though in his novels and romances he was at home when abroad--and nowhere else
more gloriously than with Saladin in the Desert. "Lalla Rookh" is full of brilliant poetry;
and one of the series--the "Fire-Worshippers"--is Moore's highest effort; but the whole is
too elaborately Oriental--and often in pure weariness of all that accumulation of the gorgeous
imagery of the East, we shut up the false glitter, and thank Heaven that we are in one of the
bleakest and barest corners of the West. But Southey's magic is more potent--and he was privileged
to exclaim--

    "Come, listen to a tale of times of old!
    Come, for ye know me.

Of all his chief Poems the conception and the execution are original; in much faulty and imperfect
both; but bearing throughout the impress of original power; and breathing a moral charm, in
the midst of the wildest and sometimes even extravagant imaginings, that shall preserve them
for ever from oblivion, embalming them in the spirit of delight and of love. Fairy Tales, or
tales of witchcraft and enchantment, seldom stir the holiest and deepest feelings of the heart;
but "Thalaba" and "Kehama" do so; "the still sad music of humanity" is ever with us among all
most wonderful and wild; and of all the spells, and charms, and talismans that are seen working
strange effects before our eyes, the strongest are ever felt to be Piety and Virtue. What exquisite
pictures of domestic affection and bliss! what sanctity and devotion! Meek as a child is Innocence
in Southey's poetry, but mightier than any giant. Whether matron or maid, mother or daughter--in
joy or sorrow--as they appear before us, doing or suffering, "beautiful and dutiful," with
Faith, Hope and Charity their guardian angels, nor Fear ever once crossing their path! We feel,
in perusing such pictures--"Purity! thy name is woman!" and are not these Great Poems? We are
silent. But should you answer "yes," from us in our present mood you shall receive no contradiction.

The transition always seems to us, we scarcely know why, as natural as delightful from Southey
to Scott. They alone of all the poets of the day have produced poems in which are pictured
and narrated, epicly, national characters, and events, and actions, and catastrophes. Southey
has heroically invaded foreign countries; Scott as heroically brought his power to bear on
his own people; and both have achieved immortal triumphs. But Scotland is proud of her great
national minstrel--and as long as she is Scotland, will wash and warm the laurels round his
brow, with rains and winds that will for ever keep brightening their glossy verdure. Whereas
England, ungrateful ever to her men of genius, already often forgets the poetry of Southey;
while Little Britain abuses his patriotism in his politics. The truth is, that Scotland had
forgotten her own history till Sir Walter burnished it all up till it glowed again--it is hard
to say whether in his poetry or in his prose the brightest--and the past became the present.
This he has effected by means of about one hundred volumes, each exhibiting to the life about
fifty characters, and each character not only an individual in himself or herself, but the
representative--so we offer to prove if you be sceptical--of a distinct class or order of human
beings, from the Monarch to the Mendicant, from the Queen to the Gypsy, from the Bruce to the
Moniplies, from Mary Stuart to Jenny Dennison. We shall never say that Scott is Shakespeare:
but we shall say that he has conceived and created--you know the meaning of these words--as
many characters--real living flesh-and-blood human beings--naturally, truly, and consistently,
as Shakespeare; who, always transcendently great in pictures of the passions--out of their
range, which surely does not comprehend all rational being--was--nay, do not threaten to murder
us--not seldom an imperfect delineator of human life. All the world believed that Sir Walter
had not only exhausted his own genius in his poetry, but that he had exhausted all the matter
of Scottish life--he and Burns together--and that no more ground unturned-up lay on this side
of the Tweed. Perhaps he thought so too for a while--and shared in the general and natural
delusion. But one morning before breakfast it occurred to him, that in all his poetry he had
done little or nothing--though more for Scotland than any other of her poets, except the Ploughman--and
that it would not be much amiss to commence a New Century of Inventions. Hence the Prose Tales--Novels--and
Romances--fresh floods of light pouring all over Scotland--and occasionally illumining England,
France, and Germany, and even Palestine--whatever land had been ennobled by Scottish enterprise,
genius, valour, and virtue. The worst of Sir Walter is, that he has harried all Scotland. Never
was there such a freebooter. He harries all men's cattle--kills themselves off-hand, and makes
bonfires of their castles. Thus has he disturbed and illuminated all the land as with the blazes
of a million beacons. Lakes lie with their islands distinct by midnight as by mid-day; wide
woods glow gloriously in the gloom; and by the stormy splendour you even see ships, with all
sails set, far at sea. His favourite themes in prose or numerous verse are still "Knights and
Lords and mighty Earls," and their Lady-loves, chiefly Scottish--of kings that fought for fame
or freedom--of fatal Flodden and bright Bannockburn--of the DELIVERER. If that be not national
to the teeth, Homer was no Ionian, Tyrtæus not sprung from Sparta, and Christopher North a
Cockney. Let Abbotsford, then, be cognomed by those that choose it, the Ariosto of the North--we
shall continue to call him plain Sir Walter.

Now, we beg leave to decline answering our own question--has he ever written a Great Poem?
We do not care one straw whether he has or not; for he has done this--he has exhibited human
life in a greater variety of forms and lights, all definite and distinct, than any other man
whose name has reached our ears; and therefore, without fear or trembling, we tell the world
to its face, that he is, out of all sight, the greatest genius of the age, not forgetting Goethe,
the Devil, and Dr Faustus.

"What? Scott a greater genius than Byron!" Yes--beyond compare. Byron had a vivid and strong,
but not a wide, imagination. He saw things as they are, occasionally standing prominently and
boldly out from the flat surface of this world; and in general, when his soul was up, he described
them with a master's might. We speak now of the external world--of nature and of art. Now observe
how he dealt with nature. In his early poems he betrayed no passionate love of nature, though
we do not doubt that he felt it; and even in the first two cantos of "Childe Harold" he was
an unfrequent and no very devout worshipper at her shrine. We are not blaming his lukewarmness;
but simply stating a fact. He had something else to think of, it would appear; and proved himself
a poet. But in the third canto, "a change came over the spirit of his dream," and he "babbled
o' green fields," floods, and mountains. Unfortunately, however, for his originality, that
canto is almost a cento--his model being Wordsworth. His merit, whatever it may be, is limited
therefore to that of imitation. And observe, the imitation is not merely occasional or verbal;
but all the descriptions are conceived in the spirit of Wordsworth, coloured by it and shaped--from
it they live, and breathe, and have their being; and that so entirely, that had "The Excursion"
and "Lyrical Ballads" never been, neither had any composition at all resembling, either in
conception or execution, the third canto of "Childe Harold." His soul, however, having been
awakened by the inspiration of the Bard of Nature, never afterwards fell asleep, nor got drowsy
over her beauties or glories; and much fine description pervades most of his subsequent works.
He afterwards made much of what he saw his own--and even described it after his own fashion;
but a greater in that domain was his instructor and guide--nor in his noblest efforts did he
ever make any close approach to those inspired passages, which he had manifestly set as models
before his imagination. With all the fair and great objects in the world of art, again, Byron
dealt like a poet of original genius. They themselves, and not descriptions of them, kindled
it up; and thus "thoughts that breathe, and words that burn," do almost entirely compose the
fourth canto, which is worth, ten times over, all the rest. The impetuosity of his career is
astonishing; never for a moment does his wing flag; ever and anon he stoops but to soar again
with a more majestic sweep; and you see how he glories in his flight--that he is proud as Lucifer.
The first two cantos are frequently cold, cumbrous, stiff, heavy, and dull; and, with the exception
of perhaps a dozen stanzas, and these far from being of first-rate excellence, they are found
woefully wanting in the true fire. Many passages are but the baldest prose. Byron, after all,
was right in thinking--at first--but poorly of these cantos; and so was the friend, not Mr
Hobhouse, who threw cold water upon them in manuscript. True, they "made a prodigious sensation,"
but bitter-bad stuff has often done that; while often unheeded or unheard has been an angel's
voice. Had they been suffered to stand alone, long ere now had they been pretty well forgotten;
and had they been followed by other two cantos no better than themselves, then had the whole
four in good time been most certainly damned. But, fortunately, the poet, in his pride, felt
himself pledged to proceed; and proceed he did in a superior style; borrowing, stealing, and
robbing, with a face of aristocratic assurance that must have amazed the plundered; but intermingling
with the spoil riches fairly won by his own genius from the exhaustless treasury of nature,
who loved her wayward her wicked, and her wondrous son. Is "Childe Harold," then, a Great Poem?
What! with one-half of it little above mediocrity, one quarter of it not original in conception,
and in execution swarming with faults, and the remainder glorious? As for his tales--the "Giaour,"
"Corsair," "Lara," "Bride of Abydos," "Siege of Corinth," and so forth--they are all spirited,
energetic, and passionate performances--sometimes nobly and sometimes meanly versified--but
displaying neither originality nor fertility of invention, and assuredly no wide range either
of feeling or of thought, though over that range a supreme dominion. Some of his dramas are
magnificent--and in many of his smaller poems pathos and beauty overflow. Don Juan exhibits
almost every kind of talent; and in it the degradation of poetry is perfect.

But there is another glory belonging to this age, and almost to this age alone of our poetry--the
glory of Female Genius. We have heard and seen it seriously argued whether or not women are
equal to men; as if there could be a moment's doubt in any mind unbesotted by sex, that they
are infinitely superior; not in understanding, thank Heaven, nor in intellect, but in all other
"impulses of soul and sense" that dignify and adorn human beings, and make them worthy of living
on this delightful earth. Men for the most part are such worthless wretches, that we wonder
how women condescend to allow the world to be carried on; and we attribute that phenomenon
solely to the hallowed yearnings of maternal affection, which breathes as strongly in maid
as in matron, and may be beautifully seen in the child fondling its doll in its blissful bosom.
Philoprogenitiveness! But not to pursue that interesting speculation, suffice it for the present
to say, that so far from having no souls--a whim of Mahomet's, who thought but of their bodies--women
are the sole spiritual beings that walk the earth not unseen; they alone, without pursuing
a complicated and scientific system of deception and hypocrisy, are privileged from on high
to write poetry. We--men we mean--may affect a virtue, though we have it not, and appear to
be inspired by the divine afflatus. Nay, we sometimes--often--are truly so inspired, and write
like gods. A few of us are subject to fits, and in them utter oracles. But the truth is too
glaring to be denied, that all male rational creatures are, in the long run, vile, corrupt,
and polluted; and that the best man that ever died in his bed within the arms of his distracted
wife, is wickeder far than the worst woman that was ever iniquitously hanged for murdering
what was called her poor husband, who in all cases righteously deserved his fate. Purity of
mind is incompatible with manhood; and a monk is a monster--so is every Fellow of a College,
and every Roman Catholic Priest, from Father O'Leary to Dr Doyle. Confessions, indeed! Why,
had Joseph himself confessed all he ever felt and thought to Potiphar's wife, she would have
frowned him from her presence in all the chaste dignity of virtuous indignation, and so far
from tearing off his garment, would not have touched it for the whole world. But all women--till
men by marriage, or by something, if that be possible, worse even than marriage, try in vain
to reduce them nearly to their own level--are pure as dewdrops or moonbeams, and know not the
meaning of evil. Their genius conjectures it; and in that there is no sin. But their genius
loves best to image forth good, for 'tis the blessing of their life, its power, and its glory;
and hence, when they write poetry, it is religious, sweet, soft, solemn, and divine.

Observe, however--to prevent all mistakes--that we speak but of British women--and of British
women of the present age. Of the German Fair Sex we know little or nothing; but daresay that
the Baroness la Motte Fouqué is a worthy woman, and as vapid as the Baron. Neither make we
any allusion to Madame Genlis, or other illustrious Lemans of the French school, who charitably
adopted their own natural daughters, while other less pious ladies, who had become mothers
without being wives, sent theirs to Foundling Hospitals. We restrict ourselves to the Maids
and Matrons of this Island--and of this Age; and as it is of poetical genius that we speak--we
name the names of Joanna Baillie, Mary Tighe, Felicia Hemans, Caroline Bowles, Mary Howitt,
Letitia Elizabeth Landon, and the Lovely Norton; while we pronounce several other sweet-sounding
Christian surnames in whispering under-tones of affection, almost as inaudible as the sound
of the growing of grass on a dewy evening.

Corinna and Sappho must have been women of transcendant genius so to move Greece. For though
the Greek character was most impressible and combustible, it was so only to the finest finger
and fire. In that delightful land dunces were all dumb. Where genius alone spoke and sung poetry,
how hard to excel! Corinna and Sappho did excel--the one, it is said, conquering Pindar--and
the other all the world but Phaon.

But our own Joanna has been visited with a still loftier inspiration. She has created tragedies
which Sophocles--or Euripides--nay, even Æschylus himself, might have feared, in competition
for the crown. She is our Tragic Queen; but she belongs to all places as to all times; and
Sir Walter truly said--let them who dare deny it--that he saw her Genius in a sister shape
sailing by the side of the Swan of Avon. Yet Joanna loves to pace the pastoral mead; and then
we are made to think of the tender dawn, the clear noon, and the bright meridian of her life,
passed among the tall cliffs of the silver Calder, and in the lonesome heart of the dark Strathaven
Muirs.

Plays on the Passions! "How absurd!" said one philosophical writer. "This will never do!" It
has done--perfectly. What, pray, is the aim of all tragedy? The Stagyrite has told us--to purify
the passions by pity and terror. They ventilate and cleanse the soul--till its atmosphere is
like that of a calm, bright summer day. All plays, therefore, must be on the Passions. And
all that Joanna intended--and it was a great intention greatly effected--was in her Series
of Dramas to steady her purposes by ever keeping one great end in view, of which the perpetual
perception could not fail to make all the means harmonious, and therefore majestic. One passion
was, therefore, constituted sovereign of the soul in each glorious tragedy--sovereign sometimes
by divine right--sometimes an usurper--generally a tyrant. In De Monfort we behold the horrid
reign of Hate. But in his sister--the seraphic sway of Love. Darkness and light sometimes opposed
in sublime contrast--and sometimes the light swallowing up the darkness--or "smoothing its
raven down till it smiles." Finally, all is black as night and the grave--for the light, unextinguished,
glides away into some far-off world of peace. Count Basil! A woman only could have imagined
that divine drama. How different the love Basil feels for Victoria from Antony's for Cleopatra!
Pure, deep, high as the heaven and the sea. Yet on it we see him borne away to shame, destruction,
and death. It is indeed his ruling passion. But up to the day he first saw her face his ruling
passion had been the love of glory. And the hour he died by his own hand was troubled into
madness by many passions; for are they not all mysteriously linked together, sometimes a dreadful
brotherhood?

Do you wonder how one mind can have such vivid consciousness of the feelings of another, while
their characters are cast in such different moulds? It is, indeed, wonderful--but the power
is that of sympathy and genius. The dramatic poet, whose heart breathes love to all living
things, and whose overflowing tenderness diffuses itself over the beauty even of unliving nature,
may yet paint with his creative hand the steeled heart of him who sits on a throne of blood--the
lust of crime in a mind polluted with wickedness--the remorse of acts which could never pass
in thought through his imagination as his own. For, in the act of imagination he can suppress
in his mind its own peculiar feelings--its good and gracious affections--call up from their
hidden places those elements of our being, of which the seeds were sown in him as in all--give
them unnatural magnitude and power--conceive the disorder of passions, the perpetration of
crimes, the tortures of remorse, or the scorn of that human weakness, from which his own gentle
bosom and blameless life are pure and free. He can bring himself, in short, into an imaginary
and momentary sympathy with the wicked, just as his mind falls of itself into a natural and
true sympathy with those whose character is accordant with his own; and watching the emotions
and workings of his mind in the spontaneous and in the forced sympathy, he knows and understands
for himself what passes in the minds of others. What is done in the highest degree by the highest
genius, is done by all of ourselves in lesser degree, and unconsciously, at every moment in
our intercourse with one another. To this kind of sympathy, so essential to our knowledge of
the human mind, and without which there can be neither poetry nor philosophy, are necessary
a largeness of heart which willingly yields itself to conceive the feelings and states of others
whose character is utterly unlike its own, and freedom from any inordinate overpowering passion
which quenches in the mind the feelings of nature it has already known, and places it in habitual
enmity to the affections and happiness of its kind. To paint bad passions is not to praise
them; they alone can paint them well who hate, fear, or pity them; and therefore Baillie has
done so--nay start not--better than Byron.

Well may our land be proud of such women. None such ever before adorned her poetical annals.
Glance over that most interesting volume, "Specimens of British Poetesses," by that amiable,
ingenious, and erudite man, the Reverend Alexander Dyce, and what effulgence begins to break
towards the close of the eighteenth century! For ages on ages the genius of English women had
ever and anon been shining forth in song; but faint though fair was the lustre, and struggling
imprisoned in clouds. Some of the sweet singers of those days bring tears to our eyes by their
simple pathos--for their poetry breathes of their own sorrows, and shows that they were but
too familiar with grief. But their strains are mere melodies "sweetly played in tune." The
deeper harmonies of poetry seem to have been beyond their reach. The range of their power was
limited. Anne, Countess of Winchilsea--Catherine Phillips, known by the name of Orinda--and
Mrs Anne Killigrew, who, as Dryden says, was made an angel, "in the last promotion to the skies"--showed,
as they sang on earth, that they were all worthy to sing in heaven. But what were their hymns
to those that are now warbled around us from many sister spirits, pure in their lives as they,
but brighter far in their genius, and more fortunate in its nurture? Poetry from female lips
was then half a wonder, and half a reproach. But now 'tis no longer rare--not even the highest--yes,
the highest--for Innocence and Purity are of the highest hierarchies; and the thoughts and
feelings they inspire, though breathed in words and tones, "gentle and low, an excellent thing
in woman," are yet lofty as the stars, and humble too as the flowers beneath our feet.

We have not forgotten an order of poets, peculiar, we believe, to our own enlightened land--a
high order of poets sprung from the lower orders of the people--and not only sprung from them,
but bred as well as born in "the huts where poor men lie," and glorifying their condition by
the light of song. Such glory belongs--we believe--exclusively to this country and to this
age. Mr Southey, who in his own high genius and fame is never insensible to the virtues of
his fellow-men, however humble and obscure the sphere in which they may move, has sent forth
a volume--and a most interesting one--on the uneducated poets; nor shall we presume to gainsay
one of his benevolent words. But this we do say, that all the verse-writers of whom he there
treats, and all the verse-writers of the same sort of whom he does not treat, that ever existed
on the face of the earth, shrink up into a lean and shrivelled bundle of dry leaves or sticks,
compared with these Five--Burns, Hogg, Cunningham, Bloomfield, and Clare. It must be a strong
soil--the soil of this Britain--which sends up such products; and we must not complain of the
clime beneath which they grow to such height, and bear such fruitage. The spirit of domestic
life must be sound--the natural knowledge of good and evil high--the religion true--the laws
just--and the government, on the whole, good, methinks, that have all conspired to educate
these children of genius, whose souls Nature had framed of the finer clay.

Such men seem to us more clearly and certainly men of genius, than many who, under different
circumstances, may have effected higher achievements. For though they enjoyed in their condition
ineffable blessings to dilate their spirits, and touch them with all tenderest thoughts, it
is not easy to imagine, on the other hand, the deadening or degrading influences to which by
that condition they were inevitably exposed, and which keep down the heaven-aspiring flame
of genius, or extinguish it wholly, or hold it smouldering under all sorts of rubbish. Only
look at the attempts in verse of the common run of clodhoppers. Buy a few ballads from the
wall or stall--and you groan to think that you have been born--such is the mess of mire and
filth which often, without the slightest intention of offence, those rural, city, or suburban
bards of the lower orders prepare for boys, virgins, and matrons, who all devour it greedily,
without suspicion. Strange it is that even in that mural minstrelsy, occasionally occurs a
phrase or line, and even stanza, sweet and simple, and to nature true; but consider it in the
light of poetry read, recited, and sung by the people, and you might well be appalled by the
revelation therein made of the tastes, feelings, and thoughts of the lower orders. And yet
in the midst of all the popularity of such productions, the best of Burns's poems, his "Cottar's
Saturday Night," and most delicate of his songs, are still more popular, and read by the same
classes with a still greater eagerness of delight. Into this mystery we shall not now inquire;
but we mention it now merely to show how divine a thing true genius is, which, burning within
the bosoms of a few favourite sons of nature, guards them from all such pollution, lifts them
up above it all, purifies their whole being, and without consuming their family affections
or friendships, or making them unhappy with their lot, and disgusted with all about them, reveals
to them all that is fair and bright and beautiful in feeling and in imagination, makes them
very poets indeed, and should fortune favour, and chance and accident, gains for them wide
over the world the glory of a poet's name.

From all such evil influences incident to their condition--and we are now speaking but of the
evil--the Five emerged; and first and foremost--Burns. Our dearly beloved Thomas Carlyle is
reported to have said at a dinner given to Allan Cunningham in Dumfries, that Burns was not
only one of the greatest of poets, but likewise of philosophers. We hope not. What he did may
be told in one short sentence. His genius purified and ennobled in his imagination and in his
heart the character and condition of the Scottish peasantry--and reflected them, ideally true
to nature, in the living waters of Song. That is what he did; but to do that, did not require
the highest powers of the poet and the philosopher. Nay, had he marvellously possessed them,
he never would have written a single line of the poetry of the late Robert Burns. Thank Heaven
for not having made him such a man--but merely the Ayrshire Ploughman. He was called into existence
for a certain work, for the fulness of time was come--but he was neither a Shakespeare, nor
a Scott, nor a Goethe; and therefore he rejoiced in writing the "Saturday Night," and "The
Twa Dogs," and "The Holy Fair," and "O' a' the Airts the Win' can blaw," and eke "The Vision."
But forbid it, all ye Gracious Powers! that we should quarrel with Thomas Carlyle--and that,
too, for calling Robert Burns one of the greatest of poets and philosophers.

Like a strong man rejoicing to run a race, we behold Burns in his golden prime; and glory gleams
from the Peasant's head, far and wide over Scotland. See the shadow tottering to the tomb!
frenzied with fears of a prison--for some five-pound debt--existing, perhaps, but in his diseased
imagination--for, alas! sorely diseased it was, and he too, at last, seemed somewhat insane.
He escapes that disgrace in the grave. Buried with his bones be all remembrances of his miseries!
But the spirit of song, which was his true spirit, unpolluted and unfallen, lives, and breathes,
and has its being, in the peasant-life of Scotland; his songs, which are as household and sheepfold
words, consecrated by the charm that is in all the heart's purest affections, love and pity,
and the joy of grief, shall never decay, till among the people have decayed the virtues which
they celebrate, and by which they were inspired; and should some dismal change in the skies
ever overshadow the sunshine of our national character, and savage storms end in sullen stillness,
which is moral death, in the poetry of Burns the natives of happier lands will see how noble
was once the degenerated race that may then be looking down disconsolately on the dim grass
of Scotland with the unuplifted eyes of cowards and slaves.

The truth ought always to be spoken; and therefore we say that in fancy James Hogg--in spite
of his name and his teeth--was not inferior to Robert Burns--and why not? The Forest is a better
schoolroom for Fancy than ever Burns studied in; it overflowed with poetical traditions. But
comparisons are always odious; and the great glory of James is, that he is as unlike Robert
as ever one poet was unlike another.

Among hills that once were a forest, and still bear that name, and by the side of a river not
unknown in song, lying in his plaid on a brae among the "woolly people," behold that true son
of genius--The Ettrick Shepherd. We are never so happy as when praising James; but pastoral
poets are the most incomprehensible of God's creatures; and here is one of the best of them
all, who confesses the "Chaldee" and denies the "Noctes!"

"The Queen's Wake" is a garland of fair forest flowers, bound with a band of rushes from the
moor. It is not a poem--not it--nor was it intended to be so; you might as well call a bright
bouquet of flowers a flower, which, by the by, we do in Scotland. Some of the ballads are very
beautiful; one or two even splendid; most of them spirited; and the worst far better than the
best that ever was written by any bard in danger of being a blockhead. "Kilmeny" alone places
our (ay, our) Shepherd among the Undying Ones. London soon loses all memory of lions, let them
visit her in the shape of any animal they please. But the Heart of the Forest never forgets.
It knows no such word as absence. The Death of a Poet there is but the beginning of a Life
of Fame. His songs no more perish than do flowers. There are no Annuals in the Forest. All
are perennial; or if they do indeed die, their fadings away are invisible in the constant succession--the
sweet unbroken series of everlasting bloom. So will it be in his native haunts with the many
songs of the Ettrick Shepherd. The lochs may be drained--corn may grow where once the Yarrow
flowed--nor is such change much more unlikely than in the olden time would have been thought
the extirpation of all the vast oak-woods, where the deer trembled to fall into the den of
the wolf, and the wild boar farrowed beneath the eagle's eyrie. All extinct now! But obsolete
never shall be the Shepherd's plaintive or pawky, his melancholy or merry, lays. The ghost
of "Mary Lee" will be seen in the moonlight coming down the hills; the "Witch of Fife" on the
clouds will still bestride her besom; and the "Gude Grey Cat" will mew in imagination, were
even the last mouse on his last legs, and the feline species swept off by war, pestilence,
and famine, and heard to purr no more!

It is here where Burns was weakest, that the Shepherd is strongest--the world of shadows. The
airy beings that to the impassioned soul of Burns seemed cold, bloodless, unattractive, rise
up lovely in their own silent domains, before the dreaming fancy of the tender-hearted Shepherd.
The still green beauty of the pastoral hills and vales where he passed all his days, inspired
him with ever-brooding visions of Fairy Land, till, as he lay musing on the brae, the world
of shadows seemed, in the clear depths, a softened reflection of real life, like the hills
and heavens in the water of his native lake. When he speaks of Fairy Land, his language becomes
aerial as the very voice of the fairy people, serenest images rise up with the music of the
verse, and we almost believe in the being of those unlocalised realms of peace, and of which
he sings like a native minstrel.

Yes, James--thou wert but a poor shepherd to the last--poor in this world's goods--though Altrive
Lake is a pretty little bit farmie--given thee by the best of Dukes--with its few laigh sheep-braes--its
somewhat stony hayfield or two--its pasture where Crummie might unhungered graze--nyuck for
the potato's bloomy or ploomy shaws--and path-divided from the porch the garden, among whose
flowers "wee Jamie" played. But nature had given thee, to console thy heart in all disappointments
from the "false smiling of fortune beguiling," a boon which thou didst hug to thy heart with
transport on the darkest day--the "gift o' genie," and the power of immortal song.

And has Scotland to the Ettrick Shepherd been just--been generous--as she was--or was not--to
the Ayrshire peasant?--has she, in her conduct to him, shown her contrition for her sin--whatever
that may have been--to Burns? It is hard to tell. Fashion tosses the feathered head--and gentility
turns away her painted cheek from the Mountain Bard; but when, at the shrine of true poetry,
did ever such votaries devoutly worship? Cold, false, and hollow, ever has been their admiration
of genius--and different, indeed, from their evanescent ejaculations, has ever been the enduring
voice of fame. Scorn be to the scorners! But Scott, and Wordsworth, and Southey, and Byron,
and other great bards, have all loved the Shepherd's lays--and Joanna the palm-crowned, and
Felicia the muse's darling, and Caroline the Christian poetess, and all the other fair female
spirits of song. And in his native land, all hearts that love her streams, and her hills, and
her cottages, and her kirks, the bee-humming garden and the primrose-circled fold, the white
hawthorn and the green fairy-knowe, all delight in "Kilmeny" and "Mary Lee," and in many another
vision that visited the Shepherd in the Forest.

And what can surpass many of the Shepherd's songs? The most undefinable of all undefinable
kinds of poetical inspiration are surely--Songs. They seem to start up indeed from the dew-sprinkled
soil of a poet's soul, like flowers; the first stanza being root, the second leaf, the third
bud, and all the rest blossom, till the song is like a stalk laden with its own beauty, and
laying itself down in languid delight on the soft bed of moss--song and flower alike having
the same "dying fall!"

A fragment! And the more piteous because a fragment. Go in search of the pathetic, and you
will find it tear-steeped, sigh-breathed, moan-muttered, and groaned in fragments. The poet
seems often struck dumb by woe--his heart feels that suffering is at its acme--and that he
should break off and away from a sight too sad to be longer looked on--haply too humiliating
to be disclosed. So, too, it sometimes is with the beautiful. The soul in its delight seeks
to escape from the emotion that oppresses it--is speechless--and the song falls mute. Such
is frequently the character--and the origin of that character--of our auld Scottish Sangs.
In their mournfulness are they not almost like the wail of some bird distracted on the bush
from which its nest has been harried, and then suddenly flying away for ever into the woods?
In their joyfulness, are they not almost like the hymn of some bird, that love-stricken suddenly
darts from the tree-top down to the caresses that flutter through the spring? And such, too,
are often the airs to which those dear auld sangs are sung. From excess of feeling--fragmentary;
or of one divine part to which genius may be defied to conceive another, because but one hour
in all time could have given it birth.

You may call this pure nonsense--but 'tis so pure that you need not fear to swallow it. All
great song-writers, nevertheless, have been great thieves. Those who had the blessed fate to
flourish first--to be born when "this auld cloak was new,"--the cloak we mean which nature
wears--scrupled not to creep upon her as she lay asleep beneath the shadow of some single tree
among

    "The grace of forest woods decay'd,
    And pastoral melancholy,"

and to steal the very pearls out of her hair--out of the silken snood which enamoured Pan himself
had not untied in the Golden Age. Or if she ventured, as sometimes she did, to walk along the
highways of the earth, they robbed her in the face of day of her dew-wrought reticule--without
hurting, however, the hand from which they brushed that net of gossamer.

Then came the Silver Age of Song, the age in which we now live--and the song-singers were thieves
still--stealing and robbing from them who had stolen and robbed of old; yet, how account you
for this phenomenon--all parties remain richer than ever--and Nature, especially, after all
this thieving and robbery, and piracy and plunder, many million times richer than the day on
which she received her dowry,

    "The bridal of the earth and sky;"

and with "golden store" sufficient in its scatterings to enable all the sons of genius she
will ever bear, to "set up for themselves" in poetry, accumulating capital upon capital, till
each is a Croesus, rejoicing to lend it out without any other interest than cent per cent,
paid in sighs, smiles, and tears, and without any other security than the promise of a quiet eye,

    "That broods and sleeps on its own heart!"

Amongst the most famous thieves in our time have been Rob, James, and Allan. Burns never saw
or heard a jewel or tune of a thought or a feeling, but he immediately made it his own--that
is, stole it. He was too honest a man to refrain from such thefts. The thoughts and feelings--to
whom by divine right did they belong? To Nature. But Burns beheld them "waif and stray," and
in peril of being lost for ever. He seized then on those "snatches of old songs," wavering
away into the same oblivion that lies on the graves of the nameless bards who first gave them
being; and now, spiritually interfused with his own lays, they are secured against decay--and
like them immortal. So hath the Shepherd stolen many of the Flowers of the Forest--whose beauty
had breathed there ever since Flodden's fatal overthrow; but they had been long fading and
pining away in the solitary places, wherein so many of their kindred had utterly disappeared,
and beneath the restoring light of his genius their bloom and their balm were for ever renewed.
But the thief of all thieves is the Nithsdale and Galloway thief--called by Sir Walter, most
characteristically, "Honest Allan!" Thief and forger as he is--we often wonder why he is permitted
to live. Many is the sweet stanza he has stolen from Time--that silly old carle who kens not
even his own--many the lifelike line--and many the strange single word that seems to possess
the power of all the parts of speech. And, having stolen them, to what use did he turn the
treasures? Why, unable to give back every man his own--for they were all dead, buried, and
forgotten--by a potent prayer he evoked from his Pool-Palace, overshadowed by the Dalswinton
woods, the Genius of the Nith, to preserve the gathered flowers of song for ever unwithered,
for that they all had grown ages ago beneath and around the green shadows of Criffel, and longed
now to be embalmed in the purity of the purest river that Scotland sees flowing in unsullied
silver to the sea. But the Genius of the Nith--frowning and smiling--as he looked upon his
son alternately in anger, love, and pride--refused the votive offering, and told him to be
gone; for that he--the Genius--was not a Cromek--and could distinguish with half an eye what
belonged to antiquity, from what had undergone, in Allan's hands, change into "something rich
and rare;" and above all, from what had been blown to life that very year by the breath of
Allan's own genius, love-inspired by "his ain lassie," the "lass that he loe'd best," springing
from seeds itself had sown, and cherished by the dews of the same gracious skies, that filled
with motion and music the transparency of the river-god's never-failing urn.

We love Allan's "Maid of Elvar." It beats with a fine, free, bold, and healthful spirit. Along
with the growth of the mutual love of Eustace and Sybil, he paints peasant-life with a pen
that reminds us of the pencil of Wilkie. He is as familiar with it all as Burns; and Burns
would have perused with tears many of these pictures, even the most cheerful--for the flood-gates
of Robin's heart often suddenly flung themselves open to a touch, while a rushing gush--wondering
gazers knew not why--bedimmed the lustre of his large black eyes. Allan gives us descriptions
of Washings and Watchings o' claes, as Homer has done before him in the Odyssey, and that other
Allan in the Gentle Shepherd--of Kirks, and Christenings, and Halloweens, and other Festivals.
Nor has he feared to string his lyre--why should he?--to such themes as the Cottar's Saturday
Night--and the simple ritual of our faith, sung and said

    "In some small kirk upon the sunny brae,
    That stands all by itself on some sweet Sabbath-day."

Ay, many are the merits of this "Rustic Tale." To appreciate them properly, we must carry along
with us, during the perusal of the poem, a right understanding and feeling of that pleasant
epithet--Rustic. Rusticity and Urbanity are polar opposites--and there lie between many million
modes of Manners, which you know are Minor Morals. But not to puzzle a subject in itself sufficiently
simple, the same person may be at once rustic and urbane, and that too, either in his character
of man or of poet, or in his twofold capacity of both; for observe that, though you may be
a man without being a poet, we defy you to be a poet without being a man. A Rustic is a clodhopper;
an Urbane is a paviour. But it is obvious that the paviour in a field hops the clod; that the
clodhopper in a street paces the pavé. At the same time, it is equally obvious that the paviour,
in hopping the clod, performs the feat with a sort of city smoke, which breathes of bricks;
that the clodhopper, in pacing the pavé, overcomes the difficulty with a kind of country air,
that is redolent of broom. Probably, too, Urbanus through a deep fallow is seen ploughing his
way in pumps; Rusticus along the shallow stones is heard clattering on clogs. But to cease
pursuing the subject through all its variations, suffice it for the present (for we perceive
that we must resume the discussion another time), to say, that Allan Cunningham is a living
example and lively proof of the truth of our Philosophy--it being universally allowed in the
best circles of town and country, that he is an URBANE RUSTIC.

Now, that is the man for our love and money, when the work to be done is a Poem on Scottish Life.

We can say of Allan what Allan says of Eustace,--

            "Far from the pasture moor
    He comes; the fragrance of the dale and wood
    Is scenting all his garments, green and good."

The rural imagery is fresh and fair; not copied Cockney wise, from pictures in oil or water-colours--from
mezzotintoes or line-engravings--but from the free open face of day, or the dim retiring face
of eve, or the face, "black but comely," of night--by sunlight or moonlight, ever Nature. Sometimes
he gives us--Studies. Small, sweet, sunny spots of still or dancing day-stream-gleam--grove-glow--
sky-glimpse--or cottage-roof, in the deep dell sending up its smoke to the high heavens. But
usually Allan paints with a sweeping pencil. He lays down his landscapes, stretching wide and
far, and fills them with woods and rivers, hills and mountains, flocks of sheep and herds of
cattle; and of all sights in life and nature, none so dear to his eyes as the golden grain,
ebbing like tide of sea before a close long line of glancing sickles; no sound so sweet as--rising
up into the pure harvest-air, frost-touched though sunny--beneath the shade of hedgerow-tree,
after their mid-day meal, the song of the jolly reapers. But are not his pictures sometimes
too crowded? No. For there lies the power of the pen over the pencil. The pencil can do much,
the pen everything; the Painter is imprisoned within a few feet of canvass, the Poet commands
the horizon with an eye that circumnavigates the globe; even that glorious pageant, a painted
Panorama, is circumscribed by bounds, over which imagination, feeling them all too narrow,
is uneasy till she soars; but the Poet's Panorama is commensurate with the soul's desires,
and may include the Universe.

This Poem reads as if it had been written during the "dewy hour of prime." Allan must be an
early riser. But, if not so now, some forty years ago he was up every morning with the lark,

    "Walking to labour by that cheerful song,"

away up the Nith, through the Dalswinton woods; or, for anything we know to the contrary, intersecting
with stone-walls, that wanted not their scientific coping, the green pastures of Sanquhar.
Now he is familiar with Chantrey's form-full statues; then, with the shapeless cairn on the
moor, the rude headstone on the martyr's grave. And thus it is that the present has given him
power over the past--that a certain grace and delicacy, inspired by the pursuits of his prime,
blend with the creative dreams that are peopled with the lights and shadows of his youth--that
the spirit of the old ballad breathes still in its strong simplicity through the composition
of his "New Poem"--and that art is seen harmoniously blending there with nature.

We have said already that we delight in the story; for it belongs to an "order of fables grey,"
which has been ever dear to Poets. Poets have ever loved to bring into the pleasant places
and paths of lowly life, persons (we eschew all manner of personages and heroes and heroines,
especially with the epithet "our" prefixed) whose native lot lay in a higher sphere: for they
felt that by such contrast, natural though rare, a beautiful light was mutually reflected from
each condition, and that sacred revelations were thereby made of human character, of which
all that is pure and profound appertains equally to all estates of this our mortal being, provided
only that happiness knows from whom it comes, and that misery and misfortune are alleviated
by religion. Thus Electra appears before us at her Father's Tomb, the virgin-wife of the peasant
Auturgus, who reverently abstains from the intact body of the daughter of the king. Look into
Shakespeare. Rosalind was not so lovable at court as in the woods. Her beauty might have been
more brilliant, and her conversation too, among lords and ladies; but more touching both, because
true to tenderer nature, when we see and hear her in dialogue with the neat-herdess--ROSALIND
and Audrey! And trickles not the tear down thy cheek, fair reader--burns not the heart within
thee, when thou thinkest of Florizel and Perdita on the Farm in the Forest?

Nor from those visions need we fear to turn to Sybil Lesley. We see her in Elvar Tower, a high-born
Lady--in Dalgonar Glen, a humble bondmaid. The change might have been the reverse--as with
the lassie beloved by the Gentle Shepherd. Both are best. The bust that gloriously set off
the burnishing of the rounded silk, not less divinely shrouded its enchantment beneath the
swelling russet. Graceful in bower or hall were those arms, and delicate those fingers when
moving white along the rich embroidery, or across the strings of the sculptured harp; nor less
so when before the cottage door they woke the homely music of the humming wheel, or when on
the brae beside the Pool, they playfully intertwined their softness with the new-washed fleeces,
or when among the laughing lasses at the Linn, not loth were they to lay out the coarse linen
in the bleaching sunshine, conspicuous She the while among the rustic beauties, as was Nausicaa
of old among her nymphs at the Fountain.

We are in love with Sybil Lesley. She is full of spunk. That is not a vulgar word; or if it
have been so heretofore, henceforth let it cease to be so, and be held synonymous with spirit.
She shows it in her defiance of Sir Ralph on the shore of Solway--in her flight from the Tower
of Elvar; and the character she displays then and there, prepares us for the part she plays
in the peasant's cot in the glen of Dalgonar. We are not surprised to see her take so kindly
to the duties of a rustic service; for we call to mind how she sat among the humble good-folks
in the hall, when Thrift and Waste figured in that rude but wise Morality, and how the gracious
lady showed she sympathised with the cares and contentments of lowly life.

England has singled out John Clare from among her humble sons (Ebenezer Elliott belongs altogether
to another order)--as the most conspicuous for poetical genius, next to Robert Bloomfield.
That is a proud distinction--whatever critics may choose to say; and we cordially sympathise
with the beautiful expression of his gratitude to the Rural Muse, when he says--

    "Like as the little lark from off its nest,
    Beside the mossy hill, awakes in glee,
    To seek the morning's throne, a merry guest--
    So do I seek thy shrine, if that may be,
    To win by new attempts another smile from thee."

Now, England is out of all sight the most beautiful country in the whole world--Scotland alone
excepted--and, thank heaven, they two are one kingdom--divided by no line, either real or imaginary--united
by the Tweed. We forget at this moment--if ever we knew it--the precise number of her counties;
but we remember that one and all of them--"alike, but oh! how different"--are fit birthplaces
and abodes for poets. Some of them, we know well, are flat--and we in Scotland, with hills
or mountains for ever before our eyes, are sometimes disposed to find fault with them on that
ground--as if nature were not at liberty to find her own level. Flat indeed! So is the sea.
Wait till you have walked a few miles in among the Fens--and you will be wafted along like
a little sail-boat, up and down undulations green and gladsome as waves. Think ye there is
no scenery there? Why, you are in the heart of a vast metropolis!--yet have not the sense to
see the silent city of mole-hills sleeping in the sun. Call that pond a lake--and by a word
how is it transfigured? Now you discern flowers unfolding on its low banks and braes--and the
rustle of the rushes is like that of a tiny forest--how appropriate to the wild! Gaze--and
to your gaze what colouring grows! Not in green only, or in russet brown, doth nature choose
to be apparelled in this her solitude--nor ever again will you call her dreary here--for see
how every one of those fifty flying showers lightens up its own line of beauty along the plain--instantaneous
as dreams--or stationary as waking thought--till, ere you are aware that all was changing,
the variety has all melted away into one harmonious glow, attempered by that rainbow.

Let these few words suffice to show that we understand and feel the flattest--dullest--tamest
places, as they are most ignorantly called--that have yet been discovered in England. Not in
such did John Clare abide--but many such he hath traversed; and his studies have been from
childhood upwards among scenes which to ordinary eyes might seem to afford small scope and
few materials for contemplation. But his are not ordinary eyes--but gifted; and in every nook
and corner of his own county the Northamptonshire Peasant has, during some twoscore years and
more, every spring found without seeking either some lovelier aspect of "the old familiar faces,"
or some new faces smiling upon him, as if mutual recognition kindled joy and amity in their hearts.

John Clare often reminds us of James Grahame. They are two of our most artless poets. Their
versification is mostly very sweet, though rather flowing forth according to a certain fine
natural sense of melody, than constructed on any principles of music. So, too, with their imagery,
which seems seldom selected with much care; so that, while it is always true to nature, and
often possesses a charm from its appearing to rise up of itself, and with little or no effort
on the poet's part to form a picture, it is not unfrequently chargeable with repetition--sometimes,
perhaps, with a sameness which, but for the inherent interest in the objects themselves, might
be felt a little wearisome--there is so much still life. They are both most affectionately
disposed towards all manner of birds. Grahame's "Birds of Scotland" is a delightful poem; yet
its best passages are not superior to some of Clare's about the same charming creatures--and
they are both ornithologists after Audubon's and our own heart. Were all that has been well
written in English verse about birds to be gathered together, what a sweet set of volumes it
would make! And how many, think ye--three, six, twelve? That would be indeed an aviary--the
only one we can think of with pleasure--out of the hedgerows and the woods. Tories as we are,
we never see a wild bird on the wing without inhaling in silence "the Cause of Liberty all
over the world!" We feel then that it is indeed "like the air we breathe--without it we die."
So do they. We have been reading lately, for a leisure hour or two of an evening--a volume
by a worthy German, Doctor Bechstein--on Cage Birds. The slave-dealer never for a moment suspects
the wickedness of kidnapping young and old--crimping them for life--teaching them to draw water--and,
oh nefas! to sing! He seems to think that only in confinement do they fulfil the ends of their
existence--even the skylark. Yet he sees them, one and all, subject to the most miserable diseases--and
rotting away within the wires. Why could not the Doctor have taken a stroll into the country
once or twice a-week, and in one morning or evening hour laid in sufficient music to serve
him during the intervening time, without causing a single bosom to be ruffled for his sake?
Shoot them--spit them--pie them--pickle them--eat them--but imprison them not; we speak as
Conservatives--murder rather than immure them--for more forgivable far it is to cut short their
songs at the height of glee, than to protract them in a rueful simulation of music, in which
you hear the same sweet notes, but if your heart thinks at all, "a voice of weeping and of
loud lament," all unlike, alas! to the congratulation that from the free choirs is ringing
so exultingly in their native woods.

How prettily Clare writes of the "insect youth."

    "These tiny loiterers on the barley's beard,
    And happy units of a numerous herd
    Of playfellows, the laughing Summer brings,
    Mocking the sunshine on their glittering wings,
    How merrily they creep, and run, and fly!
    No kin they bear to labour's drudgery,
    Smoothing the velvet of the pale hedge-rose,
    And where they fly for dinner no one knows--
    The dewdrops feed them not--they love the shine
    Of noon, whose sons may bring them golden wine.
    All day they're playing in their Sunday dress--
    When night repose, for they can do no less;
    Then to the heathbell's purple hood they fly,
    And like to princes in their slumbers lie,
    Secure from rain, and dropping dews, and all,
    In silken beds and roomy painted hall.
    So merrily they spend their summer-day,
    Now in the cornfields, now in the new-mown hay.
    One almost fancies that such happy things,
    With colour'd hoods and richly-burnish'd wings,
    Are fairy folk in splendid masquerade
    Disguised, as if of mortal folk afraid.
    Keeping their joyous pranks a mystery still,
    Lest glaring day should do their secrets ill."

Time has been--nor yet very long ago--when such unpretending poetry as this--humble indeed
in every sense, but nevertheless the product of genius which speaks for itself audibly and
clearly in lowliest strains--would not have passed by unheeded or unbeloved; nowadays it may,
to many who hold their heads high, seem of no more worth than an old song. But as Wordsworth says,

    "Pleasures newly found are sweet,
    Though they lie about our feet;"

and if stately people would but stoop and look about their paths, which, do not always run
along the heights, they would often make discoveries of what concerned them more than speculations
among the stars.

It is not to be thought, however, that the Northamptonshire Peasant does not often treat earnestly
of the common pleasures and pains, the cares and occupations, of that condition of life in
which he was born, and has passed all his days. He knows them well, and has illustrated them
well, though seldomer in his later than in his earlier poems; and we cannot help thinking that
he might greatly extend his popularity, which in England is considerable, by devoting his Rural
Muse to subjects lying within his ken, and of everlasting interest. Bloomfield's reputation
rests on his "Farmer's Boy"--on some exquisite passages in "News from the Farm"--and on some
of the tales and pictures in his "May-day with the Muses." His smaller poems are very inferior
to those of Clare--but the Northamptonshire Peasant has written nothing in which all honest
English hearts must delight, at all comparable with those truly rural compositions of the Suffolk
shoemaker. It is in his power to do so--would he but earnestly set himself to the work. He
must be more familiar with all the ongoings of rural life than his compeer could have been;
nor need he fear to tread again the same ground, for it is as new as if it had never been touched,
and will continue to be so till the end of time. The soil in which the native virtues of the
English character grow, is unexhausted and inexhaustible; let him break it up on any spot he
chooses, and poetry will spring to light like clover from lime. Nor need he fear being an imitator.
His mind is an original one, his most indifferent verses prove it; for though he must have
read much poetry since his earlier day--doubtless all our best modern poetry--he retains his
own style, which, though it be not marked by any very strong characteristics, is yet sufficiently
peculiar to show that it belongs to himself, and is a natural gift. Pastorals--eclogues--and
idyls--in a hundred forms--remain to be written by such poets as he and his brethren; and there
can be no doubt at all that, if he will scheme something of the kind, and begin upon it, without
waiting to know fully or clearly what he may be intending, before three winters, with their
long nights, are gone, he will find himself in possession of more than mere materials for a
volume of poems that will meet with general acceptation, and give him a permanent place by
the side of him he loves so well--Robert Bloomfield.

Ebenezer Elliott (of whom more another day)[A] claims with pride to be the Poet of the Poor--and
the poor might well be proud, did they know it, that they have such a poet. Not a few of them
know it now, and many will know it in future; for a muse of fire like his will yet send its
illumination "into dark deep holds." May it consume all the noxious vapours that infest such
regions--and purify the atmosphere--till the air breathed there be the breath of life. But
the poor have other poets besides him--Crabbe and Burns. We again mention their names--and
no more. Kindly spirits were they both; but Burns had experienced all his poetry--and therefore
his poetry is an embodiment of national character. We say it not in disparagement or reproof
of Ebenezer--conspicuous over all--for let all men speak as they think or feel--but how gentle
in all his noblest inspirations was Robin! He did not shun sins or sorrows; but he told the
truth of the poor man's life, when he showed that it was, on the whole, virtuous and happy--bear
witness those immortal strains, "The Twa Dogs," "The Vision," "The Cottar's Saturday Night,"
the sangs voiced all braid Scotland thorough by her boys and virgins, say rather her lads and
lasses--while the lark sings aloft and the linnet below, the mavis in the golden broom accompanying
the music in the golden cloud. We desire--not in wilful delusion, but in earnest hope, in devout
trust--that poetry shall show that the paths of the peasant poor are paths of pleasantness
and peace. If they should seem in that light even pleasanter and more peaceful than they ever
now can be below the sun, think not that any evil can arise "to mortal man who liveth here
by toil" from such representations--for imagination and reality are not two different things--they
blend in life; but there the darker shadows do often, alas! prevail--and sometimes may be felt
even by the hand; whereas in poetry the lights are triumphant--and gazing on the glory men's
hearts burn within them--and they carry the joy in among their own griefs, till despondency
gives way to exultation, and the day's darg of this worky world is lightened by a dawn of dreams.

[Footnote A: Professor Wilson's Works, vol. vi., page 224.]

This is the effect of all good poetry--according to its power--of the poetry of Robert Bloomfield
as of the poetry of Robert Burns. John Clare, too, is well entitled to a portion of such praise;
and therefore his name deserves to become a household word in the dwellings of the rural poor.
Living in leisure among the scenes in which he once toiled, may he once more contemplate them
all without disturbance. Having lost none of his sympathies, he has learnt to refine them all
and see into their source--and wiser in his simplicity than they who were formerly his yoke-fellows
are in theirs, he knows many things well which they know imperfectly or not at all, and is
privileged therein to be their teacher. Surely in an age when the smallest contribution to
science is duly estimated, and useful knowledge not only held in honour but diffused, poetry
ought not to be despised, more especially when emanating from them who belong to the very condition
which they seek to illustrate, and whose ambition it is to do justice to its natural enjoyments
and appropriate virtues. In spite of all they have suffered, and still suffer, the peasantry
of England are a race that may be regarded with better feelings than pride. We look forward
confidently to the time when education--already in much good--and, if the plans of the wisest
counsellors prevail, about to become altogether good--will raise at once their condition and
their character. The Government has its duties to discharge--clear as day. And what is not
in the power of the gentlemen of England? Let them exert that power to the utmost--and then
indeed they will deserve the noble name of "Aristocracy." We speak not thus in reproach--for
they better deserve that name than the same order in any other country; but in no other country
are such interests given to that order in trust--and as they attend to that trust is the glory
or the shame, the blessing or the curse, of their high estate.

But let us retrace our footsteps in moralising mood, not unmixed with sadness--to the Mausoleum
of Burns. Scotland is abused by England for having starved Burns to death, or for having suffered
him to drink himself to death, out of a cup filled to the brim with bitter disappointment and
black despair. England lies. There is our gage-glove, let her take it up, and then for mortal
combat with sword and spear--only not on horseback--for, for reasons on which it would be idle
to be more explicit, we always fight now on foot, and have sent our high horse to graze all
the rest of his life on the mountains of the moon. Well then, Scotland met Burns, on his first
sunburst, with one exulting acclaim. Scotland bought and read his poetry, and Burns, for a
poor man, became rich--rich to his heart's desire--and reached the summit of his ambition,
in the way of this world's life, in a--Farm. Blithe Robin would have scorned "an awmous" from
any hands but from those of nature; nor in those days needed he help from woman-born. True,
that times began by-and-by to go rather hard with him, and he with them; for his mode of life
was not

    "Such as grave livers do in Scotland use,"

and as we sow we must reap. His day of life began to darken ere meridian--and the darkness
doubtless had brought disturbance before it had been perceived by any eyes but his own--for
people are always looking to themselves and their own lot; and how much mortal misery may for
years be daily depicted in the face, figure, or manners even of a friend, without our seeing
or suspecting it! Till all at once he makes a confession, and we then know that he has been
long numbered among the most wretched of the wretched--the slave of his own sins and sorrows--or
thralled beneath those of another, to whom fate may have given sovereign power over his whole
life. Well, then--or rather ill, then--Burns behaved as most men do in misery,--and the farm
going to ruin--that is, crop and stock to pay the rent--he desired to be, and was made--an
Exciseman. And for that--you ninny--you are whinnying scornfully at Scotland! Many a better
man than yourself--beg your pardon--has been, and is now, an Exciseman. Nay, to be plain with
you--we doubt if your education has been sufficiently intellectual for an Exciseman. We never
heard it said of you,

    "And even the story ran that he could gauge."

Burns then was made what he desired to be--what he was fit for, though you are not--and what
was in itself respectable--an Exciseman. His salary was not so large certainly as that of the
Bishop of Durham--or even of London--but it was certainly larger than that of many a curate
at that time doing perhaps double or treble duty in those dioceses, without much audible complaint
on their part, or outcry from Scotland against blind and brutal English bishops, or against
beggarly England, for starving her pauper-curates, by whatever genius or erudition adorned.
Burns died an Exciseman, it is true, at the age of thirty-seven; on the same day died an English
curate we could name, a surpassing scholar, and of stainless virtue, blind, palsied, "old and
miserably poor"--without as much money as would bury him; and no wonder, for he never had the
salary of a Scotch Exciseman.

Two blacks--nay twenty--won't make a white. True--but one black is as black as another--and
the Southern Pot, brazen as it is, must not abuse with impunity the Northern Pan. But now to
the right nail, and let us knock it on the head. What did England do for her own Bloomfield?
He was not in genius to be spoken of in the same year with Burns--but he was beyond all compare,
and out of all sight, the best poet that had arisen produced by England's lower orders. He
was the most spiritual shoemaker that ever handled an awl. The "Farmer's Boy" is a wonderful
poem--and will live in the poetry of England. Did England, then, keep Bloomfield in comfort,
and scatter flowers along the smooth and sunny path that led him to the grave? No. He had given
him by some minister or other, we believe Lord Sidmouth, a paltry place in some office or other--most
uncongenial with all his nature and all his habits--of which the shabby salary was insufficient
to purchase for his family even the bare necessaries of life. He thus dragged out for many
long obscure years a sickly existence, as miserable as the existence of a good man can be made
by narrowest circumstances--and all the while Englishmen were scoffingly scorning, with haughty
and bitter taunts, the patronage that at his own earnest desire made Burns an Exciseman. Nay,
when Southey, late in Bloomfield's life, and when it was drawing mournfully to a close, proposed
a contribution for his behoof, and put down his own five pounds, how many purse-strings were
untied? how much fine gold was poured out for the indigent son of genius and virtue? Shame
shuffles the sum out of sight--for it was not sufficient to have bought the manumission of
an old negro slave.

It was no easy matter to deal rightly with such a man as Burns. In those disturbed and distracted
times, still more difficult was it to carry into execution any designs for his good--and much
was there even to excuse his countrymen then in power for looking upon him with an evil eye.
But Bloomfield led a pure, peaceable, and blameless life. Easy, indeed, would it have been
to make him happy--but he was as much forgotten as if he had been dead; and when he died--did
England mourn over him--or, after having denied him bread, give him so much as a stone? No.
He dropt into the grave with no other lament we ever heard of but a few copies of poorish verses
in some of the Annuals, and seldom or never now does one hear a whisper of his name. O fie!
well may the white rose blush red--and the red rose turn pale. Let England then leave Scotland
to her shame about Burns; and, thinking of her own treatment of Bloomfield, cover her own face
with both her hands, and confess that it was pitiful. At least, if she will not hang down her
head in humiliation for her own neglect of her own "poetic child," let her not hold it high
over Scotland for the neglect of hers--palliated as that neglect was by many things--and since,
in some measure, expiated by a whole nation's tears shed over her great poet's grave.

What! not a word for Allan Ramsay? Theocritus was a pleasant Pastoral, and Sicilia sees him
among the stars. But all his dear Idyls together are not equal in worth to the "Gentle Shepherd."
Habbie's Howe is a hallowed place now among the green airy Pentlands. Sacred for ever the solitary
murmur of that waterfa'!

"About them and siclike" is the whole poem. Yet "faithful love shall memorise the song." Without
any scenery but that of rafters, which overhead fancy may suppose a grove, 'tis even yet sometimes
acted by rustics in the barn, though nothing on this earth will ever persuade a low-born Scottish
lass to take a part in a play; while delightful is felt, even by the lords and ladies of the
land, the simple Drama of humble life; and we ourselves have seen a high-born maiden look "beautiful
exceedingly" as Patie's Betrothed, kilted to the knee in the kirtle of a Shepherdess.

We have been gradually growing national overmuch, and are about to grow even more so, therefore
ask you to what era, pray, did Thomson belong? To none. Thomson had no precursor--and till
Cowper no follower. He effulged all at once sunlike--like Scotland's storm-loving, mist-enamoured
sun, which till you have seen on a day of thunder, you cannot be said ever to have seen the
sun. Cowper followed Thomson merely in time. We should have had "The Task," even had we never
had "The Seasons." These two were "heralds of a mighty train ensuing;" add them, then, to the
worthies of our own age, and they belong to it--and all the rest of the poetry of the modern
world--to which add that of the ancient--if multiplied by ten in quantity--and by twenty in
quality--would not so variously, so vigorously, and so truly image the form and pressure, the
life and spirit of the mother of us all--Nature. Are then "The Seasons" and "The Task" Great
Poems? Yes.--Why? What! Do you need to be told that that Poem must be great, which was the
first to paint the rolling mystery of the year, and to show that all its Seasons are but the
varied God? The idea was original and sublime; and the fulfilment thereof so complete, that
some six thousand years having elapsed between the creation of the world and of that poem,
some sixty thousand, we prophesy, will elapse between the appearance of that poem and the publication
of another equally great, on a subject external to the mind, equally magnificent. We further
presume, that you hold sacred the "hearth." Now, in "The Task," the "hearth" is the heart of
the poem, just as it is of a happy house. No other poem is so full of domestic happiness--humble
and high; none is so breathed over by the spirit of the Christian religion.

Poetry, which, though not dead, had long been sleeping in Scotland, was restored to waking
life by THOMSON. His genius was national; and so, too, was the subject of his first and greatest
song. By saying that his genius was national, we mean that its temperament was enthusiastic
and passionate, and that, though highly imaginative, the sources of its power lay in the heart.
"The Castle of Indolence" is distinguished by purer taste and finer fancy; but with all its
exquisite beauties, that poem is but the vision of a dream. "The Seasons" are glorious realities;
and the charm of the strain that sings the "rolling year" is its truth. But what mean we by
saying that "The Seasons" are a national subject?--do we assert that they are solely Scottish?
That would be too bold, even for us; but we scruple not to assert, that Thomson has made them
so, as far as might be without insult, injury, or injustice, to the rest of the globe. His
suns rise and set in Scottish heavens; his "deep-fermenting tempests are brewed in grim evening"
Scottish skies; Scottish is his thunder of cloud and cataract; his "vapours, and snows, and
storms" are Scottish; and, strange as the assertion would have sounded in the ears of Samuel
Johnson, Scottish are his woods, their sugh, and their roar; nor less their stillness, more
awful amidst the vast multitude of steady stems, than when all the sullen pine-tops are swinging
to the hurricane. A dread love of his native land was in his heart when he cried in the solitude--

    "Hail, kindred glooms! congenial horrors, hail!"

The genius of HOME was national--and so, too, was the subject of his justly famous Tragedy
of "Douglas." He had studied the old Ballads; their simplicities were sweet to him as wallflowers
on ruins. On the story of Gill Morice, who was an Earl's son, he founded the Tragedy, which
surely no Scottish eyes ever witnessed without tears. Are not these most Scottish lines?--

    "Ye woods and wilds, whose melancholy gloom
    Accords with my soul's sadness!"

And these even more so,--

    "Red came the river down, and loud and oft
    The angry Spirit of the water shriek'd!"

The Scottish Tragedian in an evil hour crossed the Tweed, riding on horseback all the way to
London. His genius got Anglified, took a consumption, and perished in the prime of life. But
nearly half a century afterwards, on seeing the Siddons in Lady Randolph, and hearing her low,
deep, wild, woe-begone voice exclaim, "My beautiful! my brave!" "the aged harper's soul awoke,"
and his dim eyes were again lighted up for a moment with the fires of genius--say rather for
a moment bedewed with the tears of sensibility re-awakened from decay and dotage.

The genius of Beattie was national, and so was the subject of his charming song--"The Minstrel."
For what is its design? He tells us, to trace the progress of a poetical genius born in a rude
age, from the first dawning of reason and fancy, till that period at which he may be supposed
capable of appearing in the world as a Scottish Minstrel; that is, as an itinerant poet and
musician--a character which, according to the notions of our forefathers, was not only respectable,
but sacred.

    "There lived in Gothic days, as legends tell,
      A shepherd swain, a man of low degree;
    Whose sires perchance in Fairyland might dwell,
      Sicilian groves and vales of Arcady;
    But he, I ween, was of the North Countrie;
      A nation famed for song and beauty's charms;
    Zealous, yet modest; innocent, though free;
      Patient of toil, serene amid alarms;
      Inflexible in faith, invincible in arms.

    The shepherd swain, of whom I mention made,
      On Scotia's mountains fed his little flock;
    The sickle, scythe, or plough he never sway'd:
      An honest heart was almost all his stock;
    His drink the living waters from the rock;
      The milky dams supplied his board, and lent
    Their kindly fleece to baffle winter's shock;
      And he, though oft with dust and sweat besprent,
      Did guide and guard their wanderings, wheresoe'er they went."

Did patriotism ever inspire genius with sentiment more Scottish than that? Did imagination
ever create scenery more Scottish, Manners, Morals, Life?

    "Lo! where the stripling rapt in wonder roves
    Beneath the precipice o'erhung with pine;
    And sees, on high, amidst th' encircling groves
    From cliff to cliff the foaming torrents shine:
    While waters, woods, and winds, in concert join,
    And echo swells the chorus to the skies!"

Beattie chants there like a man who had been at the Linn of Dee. He wore a wig, it is true;
but at times, when the fit was on him, he wrote like the unshorn Apollo.

The genius of Grahame was national, and so too was the subject of his first and best poem--"The
Sabbath."

    "How still the morning of the hallow'd day!"

is a line that could have been uttered only by a holy Scottish heart. For we alone know what
is indeed Sabbath silence--an earnest of everlasting rest. To our hearts, the very birds of
Scotland sing holily on that day. A sacred smile is on the dewy flowers. The lilies look whiter
in their loveliness; the blush-rose reddens in the sun with a diviner dye; and with a more
celestial scent the hoary hawthorn sweetens the wilderness. Sorely disturbed of yore, over
the glens and hills of Scotland, was the Day of Peace!

    "O, the great goodness of the Saints of Old!"

the Covenanters. Listen to the Sabbath bard,--

    "With them each day was holy; but that morn
    On which the angel said, 'See where the Lord
    Was laid,' joyous arose; to die that day
    Was bliss. Long ere the dawn by devious ways,
    O'er hills, through woods, o'er dreary wastes, they sought
    The upland muirs, where rivers, there but brooks,
    Dispart to different seas. Fast by such brooks
    A little glen is sometimes scoop'd, a plat
    With greensward gay, and flowers that strangers seem
    Amid the heathery wild, that all around
    Fatigues the eye: in solitudes like these,
    Thy persecuted children, Scotia, foil'd
    A tyrant's and a bigot's bloody laws.
    There, leaning on his spear (one of the array
    Whose gleam, in former days, had scathed the rose
    On England's banner, and had powerless struck
    The infatuate monarch, and his wavering host!)
    The lyart veteran heard the word of God
    By Cameron thunder'd, or by Renwick pour'd
    In gentle stream; then rose the song, the loud
    Acclaim of praise. The wheeling plover ceased
    Her plaint; the solitary place was glad;
    And on the distant cairn the watcher's ear
    Caught doubtfully at times the breeze-borne note.
    But years more gloomy follow'd; and no more
    The assembled people dared, in face of day,
    To worship God, or even at the dead
    Of night, save when the wintry storm raved fierce,
    And thunder-peals compell'd the men of blood
    To couch within their dens; then dauntlessly
    The scatter'd few would meet, in some deep dell
    By rocks o'ercanopied, to hear the voice,
    Their faithful pastor's voice. He by the gleam
    Of sheeted lightning oped the sacred book,
    And words of comfort spake; over their souls
    His accents soothing came, as to her young
    The heathfowl's plumes, when, at the close of eve,
    She gathers in, mournful, her brood dispersed
    By murderous sport, and o'er the remnant spreads
    Fondly her wings; close nestling 'neath her breast
    They cherish'd cower amid the purple bloom."

Not a few other sweet singers or strong, native to this nook of our isle, might we now in these
humble pages lovingly commemorate; and "four shall we mention, dearer than the rest," for sake
of that virtue, among many virtues, which we have been lauding all along, their nationality;--These
are AIRD and MOTHERWELL (of whom another hour), MOIR and POLLOK.

Of Moir, our own "delightful Delta," as we love to call him--and the epithet now by right appertains
to his name--we shall now say simply this, that he has produced many original pieces which
will possess a permanent place in the poetry of Scotland. Delicacy and grace characterise his
happiest compositions; some of them are beautiful in a cheerful spirit that has only to look
on nature to be happy; and others breathe the simplest and purest pathos. His scenery, whether
sea-coast or inland, is always truly Scottish; and at times his pen drops touches of light
on minute objects, that till then had slumbered in the shade, but now "shine well where they
stand" or lie, as component and characteristic parts of our lowland landscapes. Let others
labour away at long poems, and for their pains get neglect or oblivion; Moir is seen as he
is in many short ones, which the Scottish Muses may "not willingly let die." And that must
be a pleasant thought when it touches the heart of the mildest and most modest of men, as he
sits by his family-fire, beside those most dear to him, after a day past in smoothing, by his
skill, the bed and the brow of pain, in restoring sickness to health, in alleviating sufferings
that cannot be cured, or in mitigating the pangs of death.

Pollok had great original genius strong in a sacred sense of religion. Such of his short compositions
as we have seen, written in early youth, were but mere copies of verses, and gave little or
no promise of power. But his soul was working in the green moorland solitudes round about his
father's house, in the wild and beautiful parishes of Eaglesham and Mearns, separated by thee,
O Yearn! sweetest of pastoral streams that murmur through the west, asunder those broomy and
birken banks and trees, where the grey-linties sing, is formed the clear junction of the rills,
issuing, the one from the hill-spring above the Black-waterfall, and the other from the Brother-loch.
The poet in prime of youth (he died in his twenty-seventh year) embarked on a high and adventurous
emprise, and voyaged the illimitable Deep. His spirit expanded its wings, and in a holy pride
felt them to be broad, as they hovered over the dark abyss. "The Course of Time," for so young
a man, was a vast achievement. The book he loved best was the Bible, and his style is often
Scriptural. Of our poets, he had studied, we believe, but Milton, Young, and Byron. He had
much to learn in composition; and, had he lived, he would have looked almost with humiliation
on much that is at present eulogised by his devoted admirers. But the soul of poetry is there,
though often dimly developed, and many passages there are, and long ones too, that heave, and
hurry, and glow along in a divine enthusiasm.

    "His ears he closed, to listen to the strains
    That Sion's bards did consecrate of old,
    And fix'd his Pindus upon Lebanon."

Let us fly again to England, and leaving for another hour Shelley and Hunt and Keats, and Croly
and Milman and Heber, and Sterling and Milnes and Tennyson, with some younger aspirants of
our own day; and Gray, Collins, and Goldsmith, and lesser stars of that constellation, let
us alight on the verge of that famous era when the throne was occupied by Dryden, and then
by Pope--searching still for a Great Poem. Did either of them ever write one? No--never. Sir
Walter says finely of glorious John,

    "And Dryden in immortal strain,
    Had raised the Table Round again,
    But that a ribald King and Court,
    Bade him play on to make them sport,
    The world defrauded of the high design,
    Profaned the God-given strength, and marr'd the lofty line."

But why, we ask, did Dryden suffer a ribald king and court to debase and degrade him, and strangle
his immortal strain? Because he was poor! But could he not have died of cold, thirst, and hunger--of
starvation? Have not millions of men and women done so, rather than sacrifice their conscience?
And shall we grant to a great poet that indulgence which many a humble hind would have flung
with scorn in our teeth, and rather than have availed himself of it, faced the fagot, or the
halter, or the stake set within the sea-flood? But it is satisfactory to know that Dryden,
though still glorious John, was not a Great Poet. He was seldom visited by the pathetic or
the sublime--else had his genius held fast its integrity--been ribald to no ribald--and indignantly
kicked to the devil both court and king. But what a master of reasoning in verse! And of verse
what a volume of fire! "The long-resounding march and energy divine." Pope, again, with the
common frailties of humanity, was an ethereal creature--and played on his own harp with finest
taste, and wonderful execution. We doubt, indeed, if such a finished style has ever been heard
since from any one of the King Apollo's musicians. His versification may be monotonous, but
without a sweet and potent charm only to ears of leather. That his poetry has no passion is
the creed of critics "of Cambyses' vein;" "Heloïse" and "The Unfortunate Lady" have made the
world's heart to throb. As for Imagination, we shall continue till such time as that Faculty
has been distinguished from Fancy, to see it shining in "The Rape of the Lock," with a lambent
lustre; if high intellect be not dominant in his "Epistles" and his "Essay on Man," you will
look for it in vain in the nineteenth century; all other Satires seem complimentary to their
victims when read after "The Dunciad"--and could a man, whose heart was not heroic, have given
us another Iliad, which, all unlike as it is to the Greek, may be read with transport, even
after Homer's?

We have not yet, it would seem, found the object of our search--a Great Poem. Let us extend
our quest into the Elizabethan age. We are at once sucked into the theatre. With the whole
drama of that age we are conversant and familiar; but whether we understand it or not, is another
question. It aspires to give representations of Human Life in all its infinite varieties, and
inconsistencies, and conflicts, and turmoils produced by the Passions. Time and space are not
suffered to interpose their unities between the Poet and his vast design, who, provided he
can satisfy the spectators by the pageant of their own passions moving across the stage, may
exhibit there whatever he wills from life, death, or the grave. 'Tis a sublime conception--and
sometimes has given rise to sublime performance; but has been crowned with full success in
no hands but those of Shakespeare. Great as was the genius of many of the dramatists of that
age, not one of them has produced a Great Tragedy. A Great Tragedy indeed! What! without harmony
or proportion in the plan--with all puzzling perplexities and inextricable entanglements in
the plot--and with disgust and horror in the catastrophe? As for the characters, male and female--saw
ye ever such a set of swaggerers and rantipoles as they often are in one act--Methodist preachers
and demure young women at a love-feast in another--absolute heroes and heroines of high calibre
in a third--and so on, changing and shifting name and nature, according to the laws of the
Romantic Drama forsooth--but in hideous violation of the laws of nature--till the curtain falls
over a heap of bodies huddled together, without regard to age or sex, as if they had been overtaken
in liquor. We admit that there is gross exaggeration in the picture; but there is always truth
in a tolerable caricature--and this is one of a tragedy of Webster, Ford, or Massinger.

It is satisfactory to know that the good sense, and good feeling, and good taste of the people
of England, will not submit to be belaboured by editors and critics into unqualified admiration
of such enormities. The Old English Drama lies buried in the dust with all its tragedies. Never
more will they move across the stage. Scholars read them, and often with delight, admiration,
and wonder; for genius is a strange spirit, and has begotten strange children on the body of
the Tragic Muse. In the closet it is pleasant to peruse the countenances, at once divine, human,
and brutal, of the incomprehensible monsters--to scan their forms, powerful though misshapen--to
watch their movements, vigorous though distorted--and to hold up one's hands in amazement on
hearing them not seldom discourse most excellent music. But we should shudder to see them on
the stage enacting the parts of men and women--and call for the manager. All has been done
for the least deformed of the tragedies of the Old English Drama that humanity could do, enlightened
by the Christian religion; but nature has risen up to vindicate herself against such misrepresentations
as they afford; and sometimes finds it all she can do to stomach Shakespeare.

But the monstrosities we have mentioned are not the worst to be found in the Old English Drama.
Others there are that, till civilised Christendom fall back into barbarous Heathendom, must
for ever be unendurable to human ears, whether long or short--we mean the obscenities. That
sin is banished for ever from our literature. The poet who might dare to commit it, would be
immediately hooted out of society, and sent to roost in barns among the owls. But the Old English
Drama is stuffed with ineffable pollutions; and full of passages that the street-walker would
be ashamed to read in the stews. We have not seen that volume of the Family Dramatists which
contains Massinger. But if made fit for female reading, his plays must be mutilated and mangled
out of all likeness to the original wholes. To free them even from the grossest impurities,
without destroying their very life, is impossible; and it would be far better to make a selection
of fine passages, after the manner of Lamb's Specimens--but with a severer eye--than to attempt
in vain to preserve their character as plays, and at the same time to expunge all that is too
disgusting, perhaps, to be dangerous to boys and virgins. Full-grown men may read what they
choose--perhaps without suffering from it; but the modesty of the young clear eye must not
be profaned--and we cannot, for our own part, imagine a Family Old English Dramatist.

And here again bursts upon us the glory of the Greek Drama. The Athenians were as wicked, as
licentious, as polluted, and much more so, we hope, than ever were the English; but they debased
not with their gross vices their glorious tragedies. Nature in her higher moods alone, and
most majestic aspects, trod their stage. Buffoons, and ribalds, and zanies, and "rude indecent
clowns," were confined to comedies; and even there they too were idealised, and resembled not
the obscene samples that so often sicken us in the midst of "the acting of a dreadful thing"
in our old theatre. They knew that "with other ministrations, thou, O Nature!" teachest thy
handmaid Art to soothe the souls of thy congregated children--congregated to behold her noble
goings-on, and to rise up and depart elevated by the transcendent pageant. The Tragic muse
was in those days a Priestess--tragedies were religious ceremonies; for all the ancestral stories
they celebrated were under consecration--the spirit of the ages of heroes and demigods descended
over the vast amphitheatre; and thus were Æschylus, and Sophocles, and Euripides, the guardians
of the national character, which, we all know, was, in spite of all it suffered under, for
ever passionately enamoured of all the forms of greatness.

Forgive us--spirit of Shakespeare! that seem'st to animate that high-brow'd bust--if indeed
we have offered any show of irreverence to thy name and nature; for now, in the noiselessness
of midnight, to our awed but loving hearts do both appear divine! Forgive us--we beseech thee--that
on going to bed--which we are just about to do--we may be able to compose ourselves to sleep--and
dream of Miranda and Imogen, and Desdemona and Cordelia. Father revered of that holy family!
by the strong light in the eyes of Innocence we beseech thee to forgive us!--Ha! what old ghost
art thou--clothed in the weeds of more than mortal misery--mad, mad, mad--come and gone--was
it Lear?

We have found then, it seems--at last--the object of our search--a Great Poem--ay--four Great
Poems--"Lear"--"Hamlet"--"Othello"--"Macbeth." And was the revealer of those high mysteries
in his youth a deer-stealer in the parks of Warwickshire, a linkboy in London streets? And
died he before his grand climacteric in a dimmish sort of a middle-sized tenement in Stratford-on-Avon,
of a surfeit from an overdose of home-brewed humming ale? Such is the tradition.

Had we a daughter--an only daughter--we should wish her to be like

    "Heavenly Una with her milk-white lamb."

In that one line has Wordsworth done an unappreciable service to Spenser. He has improved upon
a picture in "The Fairy Queen"--making "the beauty still more beauteous," by a single touch
of a pencil dipped in moonlight, or in sunlight tender as Luna's smiles. Through Spenser's
many nine-lined stanzas the lovely lady glides along her own world--and our eyes follow in
delight the sinless wanderer. In Wordsworth's one single celestial line we behold her neither
in time nor space--an immortal omnipresent idea at one gaze occupying the soul.

And is not "The Fairy Queen" a Great Poem? Like "The Excursion," it is at all events a long
one--"slow to begin, and never ending." That fire was a fortunate one in which so many books
of it were burnt. If no such fortunate fire ever took place, then let us trust that the moths
drillingly devoured the manuscript--and that 'tis all safe. Purgatorial pains--unless indeed
they should prove eternal--are insufficient punishment for the impious man who invented Allegory.
If you have got anything to say, sir, out with it--in one or other of the many forms of speech
employed naturally by creatures to whom God has given the gift of "discourse of reason." But
beware of misspending your life in perversely attempting to make shadow substance, and substance
shadow. Wonderful analogies there are among all created things, material and immaterial--and
millions so fine that Poets alone discern them--and sometimes succeed in showing them in words.
Most spiritual region of poetry--and to be visited at rare times and seasons--nor all life
long ought bard there to abide. For a while let the veil of Allegory be drawn before the face
of Truth, that the light of its beauty may shine through it with a softened charm--dim and
drear--like the moon gradually obscuring in its own halo on a dewy night. Such air-woven veil
of Allegory is no human invention. The soul brought it with her when

    "Trailing clouds of glory she did come
    From heaven, which is her home."

Sometimes, now and then, in moods strange and high--obey the bidding of the soul--and allegorise;
but live not all life-long in an Allegory--even as Spenser did--Spenser the divine; for with
all his heavenly genius--and brighter visions never met mortal eyes than his--what is he but
a "dreamer among men," and what may save that wondrous poem from the doom of oblivion?

To this conclusion must we come at last--that in the English language there is but one Great
Poem. What! Not "Lear," Hamlet, "Othello," "Macbeth?"--"PARADISE LOST."

INCH-CRUIN.

Oh! for the plumes and pinions of the poised Eagle, that we might now hang over Loch Lomond
and all her isles! From what point of the compass would we come on our rushing vans? Up from
Leven-banks, or down from Glenfalloch, or over the hill of Luss, or down to Rowardennan; and
then up and away, as the chance currents in the sky might lead, with the Glory of Scotland,
blue, bright, and breaking into foam, thousands on thousands of feet below, with every Island
distinct in the peculiar beauty of its own youthful or ancient woods? For remember, that with
the eagle's wing we must also have the eagle's eye; and all the while our own soul to look
with such lens and such iris, and with its own endless visions to invest the pinnacles of all
the far-down ruins of church or castle, encompassed with the umbrage of undying oaks.

We should as soon think of penning a critique on "Milton's Paradise Lost" as on Loch Lomond.
People there are in the world, doubtless, who think them both too long; but to our minds, neither
the one nor the other exceeds the due measure by a leaf or a league. Toil may, if it so pleaseth
you, think it, in a mist, a Mediterranean Sea. For then you behold many miles of tumbling waves,
with no land beyond; and were a ship to rise up in full sail, she would seem voyaging on to
some distant shore. Or you may look on it as a great arm only of the ocean, stretched out into
the mountainous mainland. Or say, rather, some river of the first order, that shows to the
sun Islands never ceasing to adorn his course for a thousand leagues, in another day, about
to be lost in the dominion of the sea. Or rather look on it as it is, as Loch Lomond, the Loch
of a hundred Isles--of shores laden with all kinds of beauty, throughout the infinite succession
of bays and harbours--huts and houses sprinkled over the sides of its green hills, that ever
and anon send up a wider smoke from villages clustering round the church-tower beneath the
wooded rocks--halls half-hidden in groves, for centuries the residence of families proud of
their Gaelic blood--forest that, however wide be the fall beneath the axe when their hour is
come, yet, far as the eye can reach, go circling round the mountain's base, inhabited by the
roe and the red-deer;--but we have got into a sentence that threatens to be without end--a
dim, dreary, sentence, in the middle of which the very writer himself gets afraid of ghosts,
and fervently prays for the period when he shall be again chatting with the reader on a shady
seat, under his own paragraph and his own pear-tree.

Oh! for our admirable friend Mr Smith of Jordanhill's matchless cutter, to glide through among
the glittering archipelago! But we must be contented with a somewhat clumsy four-oared barge,
wide and deep enough for a cattle ferry-boat. This morning's sunrise found us at the mouth
of the Goblin's Cave on Loch Katrine, and among Lomond's lovely isles shall sunset leave us
among the last glimmer of the softened gold. To which of all those lovely isles shall we drift
before the wind on the small heaving and breaking waves? To Inch-Murrin, where the fallow-deer
repose--or to the yew-shaded Inch-Caillach, the cemetery of Clan-Alpin--the Holy Isle of Nuns?
One hushing afternoon hour may yet be ours on the waters--another of the slowly-walking twilight--that
time which the gazing spirit is too wrapt to measure, while "sinks the Day-star in the ocean's
bed"--and so on to midnight, the reign of silence and shadow, the resplendent Diana with her
hair-halo, and all her star-nymphs, rejoicing round their Queen. Let the names of all objects
be forgotten--and imagination roam over the works of nature, as if they lay in their primeval
majesty, without one trace of man's dominion. Slow-sailing Heron, that cloudlike seekest thy
nest on yonder lofty mass of pines--to us thy flight seems the very symbol of a long lone life
of peace. As thou foldest thy wide wings on the topmost bough, beneath thee tower the unguarded
Ruins, where many generations sleep. Onwards thou floatest like a dream, nor changest thy gradually
descending course for the Eagle, that, far above thy line of travel, comes rushing unwearied
from his prey in distant Isles of the sea. The Osprey! off--off--to Inch-Loning--or the dark
cliffs of Glenfalloch, many leagues away, which he will reach almost like a thought! Close
your eyes but for a moment--and when you look again, where is the Cloud-Cleaver now? Gone in
the sunshine, and haply seated in his eyrie on Ben Lomond's head.

But amidst all this splendour and magnificence, our eyes are drawn against our will, and by
a sort of sad fascination which we cannot resist, along the glittering and dancing waves, towards
the melancholy shores of Inch-Cruin, the Island of the Afflicted. Beautiful is it by nature,
with its bays, and fields, and woods, as any isle that sees its shadow in the deeps; but human
sorrows have steeped it in eternal gloom, and terribly is it haunted to our imagination. Here
no woodman's hut peeps from the glade--here are not seen the branching antlers of the deer
moving among the boughs that stir not--no place of peace is this where the world-wearied hermit
sits penitent in his cell, and prepares his soul for Heaven. Its inhabitants are a woeful people,
and all its various charms are hidden from their eyes, or seen in ghastly transfiguration;
for here, beneath the yew-tree's shade, sit moping, or roam about with rueful lamentation,
the soul-distracted and the insane! Ay--these sweet and pleasant murmurs break round a Lunatic
Asylum! And the shadows that are now and then seen among the umbrage are laughing or weeping
in the eclipse of reason, and may never know again aught of the real character of this world,
to which, exiled as they are from it, they are yet bound by the ties of a common nature that,
though sorely deranged, are not wholly broken, and still separate them by an awful depth of
darkness from the beasts that perish.

Thither love, yielding reluctantly at last to despair, has consented that the object on which
all its wise solicitudes had for years been unavailably bestowed both night and day, should
be rowed over, perhaps at midnight, and when asleep, and left there with beings like itself,
all dimly conscious of their doom. To many such the change may often bring little or no heed--for
outward things may have ceased to impress, and they may be living in their own rueful world,
different from all that we hear or behold. To some it may seem that they have been spirited
away to another state of existence--beautiful, indeed, and fair to see, with all those lovely
trees and shadows of trees; but still a miserable, a most miserable place, without one face
they ever saw before, and haunted by glaring eyes that shoot forth fear, suspicion, and hatred.
Others, again, there are, who know well the misty head of Ben Lomond, which, with joyful pleasure-parties
set free from the city, they had in other years exultingly scaled, and looked down, perhaps,
in a solemn pause of their youthful ecstasy, on the far-off and melancholy Inch-Cruin! Thankful
are they for such a haven at last--for they are remote from the disturbance of the incomprehensible
life that bewildered them, and from the pity of familiar faces that was more than could be borne.

So let us float upon our oars behind the shadow of this rock, nor approach nearer the sacred
retreat of misery. Let us not gaze too intently into the glades, for we might see some figure
there who wished to be seen nevermore, and recognise in the hurrying shadow the living remains
of a friend. How profound the hush! No sigh--no groan--no shriek--no voice--no tossing of arms--no
restless chafing of feet! God in mercy has for a while calmed the congregation of the afflicted,
and the Isle is overspread with a sweet Sabbath-silence. What medicine for them like the breath
of heaven--the dew--the sunshine--and the murmur of the wave! Nature herself is their kind
physician, and sometimes not unfrequently brings them by her holy skill back to the world of
clear intelligence and serene affection. They listen calmly to the blessed sound of the oar
that brings a visit of friends--to sojourn with them for a day--or to take them away to another
retirement, where they, in restored reason, may sit around the board, nor fear to meditate
during the midnight watches on the dream, which, although dispelled, may in all its ghastliness
return. There was a glorious burst of sunshine! And of all the Lomond Isles, what one rises
up in the sudden illumination so bright as Inch-Cruin?

Methinks we see sitting in his narrow and low-roofed cell, careless of food, dress, sleep,
or shelter alike, him who in the opulent mart of commerce was one of the most opulent, and
devoted heart and soul to show and magnificence. His house was like a palace with its pictured
and mirrored walls, and the nights wore away to dance, revelry, and song. Fortune poured riches
at his feet, which he had only to gather up; and every enterprise in which he took part prospered
beyond the reach of imagination. But all at once--as if lightning had struck the dome of his
prosperity, and earthquake let down its foundations, it sank, crackled, and disappeared--and
the man of a million was a houseless, infamous, and bankrupt beggar. In one day his proud face
changed into the ghastly smiling of an idiot--he dragged his limbs in paralysis--and slavered
out unmeaning words foreign to all the pursuits in which his active intellect had for many
years been plunged. All his relations--to whom it was known he had never shown kindness--were
persons in humble condition. Ruined creditors we do not expect to be very pitiful, and people
asked what was to become of him till he died. A poor creature, whom he had seduced and abandoned
to want, but who had succeeded to a small property on the death of a distant relation, remembered
her first, her only love, when all the rest of the world were willing to forget him; and she
it was who had him conveyed thither, herself sitting in the boat with her arm round the unconscious
idiot, who now vegetates on the charity of her whom he betrayed. For fifteen years he has continued
to exist in the same state, and you may pronounce his name on the busy Exchange of the city
where he flourished and fell, and haply the person you speak to shall have entirely forgotten it.

The evils genius sometimes brings to its possessor have often been said and sung, perhaps with
exaggerations, but not always without truth. It is found frequently apart from prudence and
principle; and in a world constituted like ours, how can it fail to reap a harvest of misery
or death? A fine genius, and even a high, had been bestowed on One who is now an inmate of
that cottage-cell, peering between these two rocks. At College he outstripped all his compeers
by powers equally versatile and profound--the first both in intellect and in imagination. He
was a poor man's son--the only son of a working carpenter--and his father intended him for
the church. But the youth soon felt that to him the trammels of a strict faith would be unbearable,
and he lived on from year to year, uncertain what profession to choose. Meanwhile his friends,
all inferior to him in talents and acquirements, followed the plain, open, and beaten path,
that leads sooner or later to respectability and independence. He was left alone in his genius,
useless, although admired--while those who had looked in high hopes on his early career, began
to have their fears that they might never be realised. His first attempts to attract the notice
of the public, although not absolute failures--for some of his compositions, both in prose
and verse, were indeed beautiful--were not triumphantly successful, and he began to taste the
bitterness of disappointed ambition. His wit and colloquial talents carried him into the society
of the dissipated and the licentious; and, before he was aware of the fact, he had got the
character of all others the most humiliating--that of a man who knew not how to estimate his
own worth, nor to preserve it from pollution. He found himself silently and gradually excluded
from the higher circle which he had once adorned, and sunk inextricably into a lower grade
of social life. His whole habits became loose and irregular; his studies were pursued but by
fits and starts; his knowledge, instead of keeping pace with that of the times, became clouded
and obscure, and even diminished; his dress was meaner; his manners hurried, and reckless,
and wild, and ere long he became a slave to drunkenness, and then to every low and degrading vice.

His father died, it was said, of a broken heart--for to him his son had been all in all, and
the unhappy youth felt that the death lay at his door. At last, shunned by most--tolerated
but by a few for the sake of other times--domiciled in the haunts of infamy--loaded with a
heap of paltry debts, and pursued by the hounds of the law, the fear of a prison drove him
mad, and his whole mind was utterly and hopelessly overthrown. A few of the friends of his
boyhood raised a subscription in his behoof--and within the gloom of these woods he has been
shrouded for many years, but not unvisited once or twice a summer by some one, who knew, loved,
and admired him in the morning of that genius that long before its meridian brightness had
been so fatally eclipsed.

And can it be in cold and unimpassioned words like these that we thus speak of Thee and thy
doom, thou Soul of fire, and once the brightest of the free, privileged by nature to walk along
the mountain-ranges, and mix their spirits with the stars! Can it be that all thy glorious
aspirations, by thyself forgotten, have no dwelling-place in the memory of one who loved thee
so well, and had his deepest affection so profoundly returned! Thine was a heart once tremblingly
alive to all the noblest and finest sympathies of our nature, and the humblest human sensibilities
became beautiful when tinged by the light of thy imagination. Thy genius invested the most
ordinary objects with a charm not their own; and the vision it created thy lips were eloquent
to disclose. What although thy poor old father died, because by thy hand all his hopes were
shivered, and for thy sake poverty stripped even the coverlet from his dying-bed--yet we feel
as if some dreadful destiny, rather than thy own crime, blinded thee to his fast decay, and
closed thine ears in deafness to his beseeching prayer. Oh! charge not to creatures such as
we all the fearful consequences of our misconduct and evil ways! We break hearts we would die
to heal--and hurry on towards the grave those whom to save we would leap into the devouring
fire. Many wondered in their anger that thou couldst be so callous to the old man's grief--and
couldst walk tearless at his coffin. The very night of the day he was buried thou wert among
thy wild companions, in a house of infamy, close to the wall of the churchyard. Was not that
enough to tell us all that disease was in thy brain, and that reason, struggling with insanity,
had changed sorrow to despair. But perfect forgiveness-- forgiveness made tender by profoundest
pity--was finally extended to thee by all thy friends--frail and erring like thyself in many
things, although not so fatally misled and lost, because in the mystery of Providence not so
irresistibly tried. It seemed as if thou hadst offended the Guardian Genius, who, according
to the old philosophy which thou knewest so well, is given to every human being at his birth;
and that then the angel left thy side, and Satan strove to drag thee to perdition. And hath
any peace come to thee--a youth no more--but in what might have been the prime of manhood,
bent down, they say, to the ground, with a head all floating with silver hairs--hath any peace
come to thy distracted soul in these woods, over which there now seems again to brood a holy
horror? Yes--thy fine dark eyes are not wholly without intelligence as they look on the sun,
moon, and stars; although all their courses seem now confused to thy imagination, once regular
and ordered in their magnificence before that intellect which science claimed as her own. The
harmonies of nature are not all lost on thy ear, poured forth throughout all seasons, over
the world of sound and sight. Glimpses of beauty startle thee as thou wanderest along the shores
of thy prison-isle; and that fine poetical genius, not yet extinguished altogether, although
faint and flickering, gives vent to something like snatches of songs, and broken elegies, that
seem to wail over the ruins of thy own soul! Such peace as ever visits them afflicted as thou
art, be with thee in cell or on shore; nor lost to Heaven will be the wild moanings of--to
us--thy unintelligible prayers!

But hark to the spirit-stirring voice of the bugle scaling the sky, and leaping up and down
in echoes among the distant mountains! Such a strain animates the voltigeur, skirmishing in
front of the line of battle, or sending flashes of sudden death from the woods. Alas for him
who now deludes his yet high heart with a few notes of the music that so often was accompanied
by his sword waving on to glory! Unappalled was he ever in the whizzing and hissing fire--nor
did his bold broad breast ever shrink from the bayonet, that with the finished fencer's art
he has often turned aside when red with death. In many of the pitched battles of the Spanish
campaigns his plume was conspicuous over the dark green lines, that, breaking asunder in fragments
like those of the flowing sea, only to re-advance over the bloody fields, cleared the ground
that was to be debated between the great armaments. Yet in all such desperate service he never
received one single wound. But on a mid-day march, as he was gaily singing a love-song, the
sun smote him to the very brain, and from that moment his right hand grasped the sword no more.

Not on the face of all the earth--or of all the sea--is there a spot of profounder peace than
that isle that has long been his abode. But to him all the scene is alive with the pomp of
war. Every far-off precipice is a fort, that has its own Spanish name--and the cloud above
seems to his eyes the tricolor, or the flag of his own victorious country. War, that dread
game that nations play at, is now to the poor insane soldier a mere child's pastime, from which
sometimes he himself will turn with a sigh or a smile. For sense assails him in his delirium,
for a moment and no more; and he feels that he is far away, and for ever, from all his companions
in glory, in an asylum that must be left but for the grave! Perhaps in such moments he may
have remembered the night, when at Badajos he led the forlorn hope; but even forlorn hope now
hath he none, and he sinks away back into his delusions, at which even his brother sufferers
smile--so foolish does the restless campaigner seem to these men of peace!

Lo! a white ghost-like figure, slowly issuing from the trees, and sitting herself down on a
stone, with face fixed on the waters! Now she is so perfectly still, that had we not seen her
motion thither, she and the rock would have seemed but one! Somewhat fantastically dressed,
even in her apparent despair. Were we close to her, we should see a face yet beautiful, beneath
hair white as snow. Her voice too, but seldom heard, is still sweet and low; and sometimes,
when all are asleep, or at least silent, she begins at midnight to sing! She yet touches the
guitar--an instrument in fashion in Scotland when she led the fashion--with infinite grace
and delicacy--and the songs she loves best are those in a foreign tongue. For more than thirty
years hath the unfortunate lady come to the water's edge daily, and hour after hour continue
to sit motionless on that self-same stone, looking down into the loch. Her story is now almost
like a dim tradition from other ages, and the history of those who come here often fades away
into nothing. Everywhere else they are forgotten--here there are none who can remember. Who
once so beautiful as the "Fair Portuguese?" It was said at that time that she was a Nun--but
the sacred veil was drawn aside by the hand of love, and she came to Scotland with her deliverer!
Yes, her deliverer! He delivered her from the gloom--often the peaceful gloom that hovers round
the altar of Superstition--and after a few years of love and life and joy--she sat where you
now see her sitting, and the world she had adorned moved on in brightness and in music as before!
Since there has to her been so much suffering--was there on her part no sin? No--all believed
her to be guiltless, except one, whose jealousy would have seen falsehood lurking in an angel's
eyes; but she was utterly deserted; and being in a strange country, worse than an orphan, her
mind gave way; for say not--oh say not--that innocence can always stand against shame and despair!
The hymns she sings at midnight are hymns to the Virgin; but all her songs are songs about
love, and chivalry, and knights that went crusading to the Holy Land. He who brought her from
another sanctuary into the one now before us, has been dead many years. He perished in shipwreck--and
'tis thought that she sits there gazing down into the loch, as on the place where he sank or
was buried; for when told that he was drowned, she shrieked, and made the sign of the cross--and
since that long-ago day that stone has in all weathers been her constant seat.

Away we go westwards--like fire-worshippers devoutly gazing on the setting sun. And another
isle seems to shoot across our path, separated suddenly, as if by magic, from the mainland.
How beautiful, with its many crescents, the low-lying shores, carrying here and there a single
tree quite into the water, and with verdant shallows guarding the lonely seclusion even from
the keel of canoe! Round and round we row, but not a single landing-place. Shall we take each
of us a fair burthen in his arms, and bear it to that knoll, whispering and quivering through
the twilight with a few birches whose stems glitter like silver pillars in the shade? No--let
us not disturb the silent people, now donning their green array for nightly revelries. It is
the "Isle of Fairies," and on that knoll hath the fishermen often seen their Queen sitting
on a throne, surrounded by myriads of creatures no taller than harebells; one splash of the
oar--and all is vanished. There, it is said, lives among the Folk of Peace, the fair child,
who, many years ago, disappeared from her parents' shieling at Inversnayde, and whom they vainly
wept over as dead. One evening she had floated away by herself in a small boat--while her parents
heard, without fear, the clank--duller and duller--of the oars, no longer visible in the distant
moonshine. In an hour the returning vessel touched the beech--but no child was to be seen--and
they listened in vain for the music of the happy creature's songs. For weeks the loch rolled
and roared like the sea--nor was the body found anywhere lying on the shore. Long, long afterwards,
some little white bones were interred in Christian burial, for the parents believed them to
be the remains of their child--all that had been left by the bill of the raven. But not so
thought many dwellers along the mountain-shores--for had not her very voice been often heard
by the shepherds, when the unseen flight of Fairies sailed singing along up the solitary Glenfalloch,
away over the moors of Tynedrum, and down to the sweet Dalmally, where the shadow of Cruachan
darkens the old ruins of melancholy Kilchurn. The lost child's parents died in their old age--but
she, 'tis said, is unchanged in shape and features--the same fair thing she was the evening
that she disappeared, only a shade of sadness is on her pale face, as if she were pining for
the sound of human voices, and the gleam of the peat-fire of the shieling. Ever, when the Fairy-court
is seen for a moment beneath the glimpses of the moon, she is sitting by the side of the gracious
Queen. Words of might there are, that if whispered at right season, would yet recall her from
the shadowy world, to which she has been spirited away; but small sentinels stand at their
stations all round the isle, and at nearing of human breath, a shrill warning is given from
sedge and water-lily, and like dewdrops melt away the phantoms, while, mixed with peals of
little laughter, overhead is heard the winnowing of wings. For the hollow of the earth, and
the hollow of the air, is their Invisible Kingdom; and when they touch the herbage or flowers
of this earth of ours, whose lonely places they love, then only are they revealed to human
eyes--at all times else to our senses unexistent as dreams!

A DAY AT WINDERMERE.

Old and gouty, we are confined to our chair; and occasionally, during an hour of rainless sunshine,
are wheeled by female hands along the gravel-walks of our Policy, an unrepining and philosophical
valetudinarian. Even the Crutch is laid up in ordinary, and is encircled with cobwebs. A monstrous
spider has there set up his rest; and our still study ever and anon hearkens to the shrill
buzz of some poor fly expiring between those formidable forceps--just as so many human ephemerals
have breathed their last beneath the bite of his indulgent master. 'Tis pleasure to look at
Domitian--so we love to call him--sallying from the centre against a wearied wasp, lying, like
a silkworm, circumvoluted in the inextricable toils, and then seizing the sinner by the nape
of the neck, like Christopher with a Cockney, to see the emperor haul him away into the charnel-house.
But we have often less savage recreations--such as watching our bee-hives when about to send
forth colonies--feeding our pigeons, a purple people that dazzle the daylight--gathering roses
as they choke our small chariot-wheels with their golden orbs--eating grapes out of vine-leaf-draperied
baskets, beautifying beneath the gentle fingers of the Gentle into fairy network graceful as
the gossamer--drinking elder-flower frontignac from invisible glasses, so transparent in its
yellowness seems the liquid radiance--at one moment eyeing a page of "Paradise Lost," and at
another of "Paradise Regained;" for what else is the face of her who often visiteth our Eden,
and whose coming and whose going is ever like a heavenly dream? Then laying back our head upon
the cushion of our triumphal car, and with half-shut eyes, subsiding slowly into haunted sleep
or slumber, with our fine features up to heaven, a saint-like image, such as Raphael loved
to paint, or Flaxman to imbue with the soul of stillness in the life-hushed marble. Such, dearest
reader, are some of our pastimes--and so do we contrive to close our ears to the sound of the
scythe of Saturn, ceaselessly sweeping over the earth, and leaving, at every stride of the
mower, a swathe more rueful than ever after a night of shipwreck did strew with ghastliness
a lee sea-shore!

Thus do we make a virtue of necessity--and thus contentment wreathes with silk and velvet the
prisoner's chains. Once were we--long, long ago--restless as a sunbeam on the restless wave--rapid
as a river that seems enraged with all impediments, but all the while in passionate love

    "Doth make sweet music with th' enamell'd stones"--

strong as a steed let loose from Arab's tent in the oasis to slake his thirst at the desert
well--fierce in our harmless joy as a red-deer belling on the hills--tameless as the eagle
sporting in the storm--gay as the "dolphin on a tropic sea"--"mad as young bulls"--and wild
as a whole wilderness of adolescent lions. But now--alas! and alack-a-day! the sunbeam is but
a patch of sober verdure--the river is changed into a canal--the "desert-born" is foundered--the
red-deer is slow as an old ram--the eagle has forsook his cliff and his clouds, and hops among
the gooseberry bushes--the dolphin has degenerated into a land tortoise--without danger now
might a very child take the bull by the horns--and though something of a lion still, our roar
is, like that of the nightingale, "most musical, most melancholy"--and, as we attempt to shake
our mane, your grandmother--fair peruser--cannot choose but weep.

It speaks folios in favour of our philanthropy, to know that, in our own imprisonment, we love
to see all life free as air. Would that by a word of ours we could clothe all human shoulders
with wings! Would that by a word of ours we could plume all human spirits with thoughts strong
as the eagle's pinions, that they might winnow their way into the empyrean! Tories! Yes! we
are Tories. Our faith is in the Divine right of kings--but easy, my boys, easy--all free men
are kings, and they hold their empire from heaven. That is our political--philosophical--moral--
religious creed. In its spirit we have lived--and in its spirit we hope to die--not on the
scaffold like Sidney--no--no--no--not by any manner of means like Sidney on the scaffold--but
like ourselves, on a hair-mattress above a feather-bed, our head decently sunk in three pillows
and one bolster, and our frame stretched out unagitatedly beneath a white counterpane. But
meanwhile--though almost as unlocomotive as the dead in body--there is perpetual motion in
our minds. Sleep is one thing, and stagnation is another--as is well known to all eyes that
have ever seen, by moonlight and midnight, the face of Christopher North, or of Windermere.

Windermere! Why, at this blessed moment we behold the beauty of all its intermingling isles.
There they are--all gazing down on their own reflected loveliness in the magic mirror of the
airlike water, just as many a holy time we have seen them all agaze, when, with suspended oar
and suspended breath--no sound but a ripple on the Naiad's bow, and a beating at our own heart--motionless
in our own motionless bark--we seemed to float midway down that beautiful abyss between the
heaven above and the heaven below, on some strange terrestrial scene composed of trees and
the shadows of trees, by the imagination made indistinguishable to the eye, and as delight
deepened into dreams, all lost at last, clouds, groves, water, air, sky, in their various and
profound confusion of supernatural peace. But a sea-born breeze is on Bowness Bay; all at once
the lake is blue as the sky: and that evanescent world is felt to have been but a vision. Like
swans that had been asleep in the airless sunshine, lo! where from every shady nook appear
the white-sailed pinnaces; for on merry Windermere--you must know--every breezy hour has its
own Regatta.

But intending to be useful, we are becoming ornamental; of us it must not be said, that

    "Pure description holds the place of sense"--

therefore, let us be simple but not silly, as plain as is possible without being prosy, as
instructive as is consistent with being entertaining, a cheerful companion and a trusty guide.

We shall suppose that you have left Kendal, and are on your way to Bowness. Forget, as much
as may be, all worldly cares and anxieties, and let your hearts be open and free to all genial
impulses about to be breathed into them from the beautiful and sublime in nature. There is
no need of that foolish state of feeling called enthusiasm. You have but to be happy; and by-and-by
your happiness will grow into delight. The blue mountains already set your imaginations at
work; among those clouds and mists you fancy many a magnificent precipice--and in the valleys
that sleep below, you image to yourselves the scenery of rivers and lakes. The landscape immediately
around gradually grows more and more picturesque and romantic; and you feel that you are on
the very borders of Fairyland. The first smile of Windermere salutes your impatient eyes, and
sinks silently into your heart. You know not how beautiful it may be--nor yet in what the beauty
consists; but your finest sensibilities to nature are touched--and a tinge of poetry, as from
a rainbow, overspreads that cluster of islands that seems to woo you to their still retreats.
And now

    "Wooded Winandermere, the river-lake,"

with all its bays and promontories, lies in the morning light serene as a Sabbath, and cheerful
as a Holiday; and you feel that there is loveliness on this earth more exquisite and perfect
than ever visited your slumbers even in the glimpses of a dream. The first sight of such a
scene will be unforgotten to your dying day--for such passive impressions are deeper than we
can explain--our whole spiritual being is suddenly awakened to receive them--and associations,
swift as light, are gathered into one Emotion of Beauty which shall be imperishable, and which,
often as memory recalls that moment, grows into genius, and vents itself in appropriate expressions,
each in itself a picture. Thus may one moment minister to years; and the life-wearied heart
of old age by one delightful remembrance be restored to primal joy--the glory of the past brought
beamingly upon the faded present--and the world that is obscurely passing away from our eyes
re-illumined with the visions of its early morn. The shows of nature are indeed evanescent,
but their spiritual influences are immortal; and from that grove now glowing in the sunlight
may your heart derive a delight that shall utterly perish but in the grave.

But now you are in the White Lion, and our advice to you--perhaps unnecessary--is immediately
to order breakfast. There are many parlours--some with a charming prospect, and some without
any prospect at all; but remember that there are other people in the world besides yourselves--and
therefore, into whatever parlour you may be shown by a pretty maid, be contented, and lose
no time in addressing yourselves to your repast. That over, be in no hurry to get on the Lake.
Perhaps all the boats are engaged--and Billy Balmer is at the Waterhead. So stroll into the
churchyard, and take a glance over the graves. Close to the oriel-window of the church is one
tomb over which one might meditate half an autumnal day. Enter the church, and you will feel
the beauty of these fine lines in "The Excursion"--

    "Not raised in nice proportions was the pile,
    But large and massy; for duration built;
    With pillars crowded, and the roof upheld
    By naked rafters intricately cross'd
    Like leafless underboughs, 'mid some thick grove,
    All wither'd by the depth of shade above!"

Go down to the low terrace-walk along the Bay. The Bay is in itself a Lake, at all times cheerful
with its scattered fleet, at anchor or under weigh--its villas and cottages, each rejoicing
in its garden or orchard--its meadows mellowing to the reedy margin of the pellucid water--its
heath-covered boathouses--its own portion of the Isle called Beautiful--and beyond that sylvan
haunt, the sweet Furness Fells, with gentle outline undulating in the sky, and among its spiral
larches showing, here and there, groves and copses of the old unviolated woods. Yes, Bowness
Bay is in itself a Lake; but how finely does it blend away, through its screens of oak and
sycamore trees, into a larger Lake--another, yet the same--on whose blue bosom you see bearing
down to windward--for the morning breeze is born--many a tiny sail. It has the appearance of
a race. Yes--it is a race; and the Liverpoolian, as of yore, is eating them all out of the
wind, and without another tack will make her anchorage. But hark--Music! 'Tis the Bowness Band
playing "See the conquering Hero comes!"--and our old friend has carried away the gold cup
from all competitors.

Now turn your faces up the hill above the village school. That green mount is what is called
a--Station. The villagers are admiring a grove of parasols, while you--the party--are admiring
the village--with its irregular roofs--white, blue, grey, green, brown, and black walls--fruit-laden
trees so yellow--its central church-tower--and environing groves variously burnished by autumn.
Saw ye ever banks and braes and knolls so beautifully bedropt with human dwellings? There is
no solitude about Windermere. Shame on human nature were Paradise uninhabited! Here, in amicable
neighbourhood, are halls and huts--here rises through groves the dome of the rich man's mansion--and
there the low roof of the poor man's cottage beneath its one single sycamore! Here are hundreds
of small properties hereditary in the same families for hundreds of years--and never, never,
O Westmoreland! may thy race of statesmen be extinct--nor the virtues that ennoble their humble
households! See, suddenly brought forth by sunshine from among the old woods--and then sinking
away into her usual unobtrusive serenity--the lake-loving Rayrig, almost level, so it seems,
with the water, yet smiling over her own quiet bay from the grove-shelter of her pastoral mound.
Within her walls may peace ever dwell with piety--and the light of science long blend with
the lustre of the domestic hearth! Thence to Calgarth is all one forest--yet glade-broken,
and enlivened by open uplands; so that the roamer, while he expects a night of umbrage, often
finds himself in the open day, beneath the bright blue bow of heaven haply without a cloud.
The eye travels delighted over the multitudinous tree-tops--often dense as one single tree--till
it rests, in sublime satisfaction, on the far-off mountains, that lose not a woody character
till the tree-sprinkled pastures roughen into rocks--and rocks tower into precipices where
the falcons breed. But the lake will not suffer the eye long to wander among the distant glooms.
She wins us wholly to herself--and restlessly and passionately for a while, but calmly and
affectionately at last, the heart embraces all her beauty, and wishes that the vision might
endure for ever, and that here our tents were pitched--to be struck no more during our earthly
pilgrimage. Imagination lapses into a thousand moods. O for a fairy pinnace to glide and float
for aye over those golden waves! A hermit-cell on sweet Lady-Holm! A sylvan shieling on Loughrig
side! A nest in that nameless dell, which sees but one small slip of heaven, and longs at night
for the reascending visit of its few loving stars! A dwelling open to all the skyey influence
on the mountain-brow, the darling of the rising or the setting sun, and often seen by eyes
in the lower world glittering through the rainbow!

All this seems a very imperfect picture indeed, or panorama of Windermere, from the hill behind
the school-house in the village of Bowness. So, to put a stop to such nonsense, let us descend
to the White Lion--and inquire about Billy Balmer. Honest Billy has arrived from Waterhead--seems
tolerably steady--Mr Ullock's boats may be trusted--so let us take a voyage of discovery on
the lake. Let those who have reason to think that they have been born to die a different death
from drowning, hoist a sail. We to-day shall feather an oar. Billy takes the stroke--Mr William
Garnet's at the helm--and "row, vassals, row, for the pride of the Lowlands," is the choral
song that accompanies the Naiad out of the bay, and round the north end of the Isle called
Beautiful, under the wave-darkening umbrage of that ancient oak. And now we are in the lovely
straits between that Island and the mainland of Furness Fells. The village has disappeared,
but not melted away; for hark! the Church-tower tolls ten--and see the sun is high in heaven.
High, but not hot--for the first September frosts chilled the rosy fingers of the morn as she
bathed them in the dews, and the air is cool as a cucumber. Cool but bland--and as clear and
transparent as a fine eye lighted up by a good conscience. There were breezes in Bowness Bay--but
here there are none--or, if there be, they but whisper aloft in the tree-tops, and ruffle not
the water, which is calm as Louisa's breast. The small isles here are but few in number--yet
the best arithmetician of the party cannot count them--in confusion so rich and rare do they
blend their shadows with those of the groves on the Isle called Beautiful, and on the Furness
Fells. A tide imperceptible to the eye drifts us on among and above those beautiful reflections--that
downward world of hanging dreams! and ever and anon we beckon unto Billy gently to dip his
oar, that we may see a world destroyed and recreated in one moment of time. Yes, Billy! thou
art a poet--and canst work more wonders with thine oar than could he with his pen who painted
"heavenly Una with her milk-white lamb," wandering by herself in Fairyland. How is it, pray,
that our souls are satiated with such beauty as this? Is it because 'tis unsubstantial all--senseless,
though fair--and in its evanescence unsuited to the sympathies that yearn for the permanencies
of breathing life? Dreams are delightful only as delusions within the delusion of this our
mortal waking existence--one touch of what we call reality dissolves them all; blissful though
they may have been, we care not when the bubble bursts--nay, we are glad again to return to
our own natural world, care-haunted though in its happiest moods it be--glad as if we had escaped
from glamoury; and, oh! beyond expression sweet it is once more to drink the light of living
eyes--the music of living lips--after that preternatural hush that steeps the shadowy realms
of the imagination, whether stretching along a sunset-heaven or the mystical imagery of earth
and sky floating in the lustre of lake or sea.

Therefore "row, vassals, row, for the pride of the Lowlands;" and as rowing is a thirsty exercise,
let us land at the Ferry, and each man refresh himself with a horn of ale.

There is not a prettier place on all Windermere than the Ferry-House, or one better adapted
for a honey-moon. You can hand your bride into a boat almost out of the parlour window, and
be off among the islands in a moment, or into nook or bay where no prying eye, even through
telescope (a most unwarrantable instrument), can overlook your happiness; or you can secrete
yourselves, like buck and doe, among the lady-fern on Furness Fells, where not a sunbeam can
intrude on your sacred privacy, and where you may melt down hours to moments, in chaste connubial
bliss, brightening futurity with plans of domestic enjoyment, like long lines of lustre streaming
across the lake. But at present, let us visit the fort-looking building among the cliffs called
The Station, and see how Windermere looks as we front the east. Why, you would not know it
to be the same lake. The Isle called Beautiful, which heretofore had scarcely seemed an isle,
appearing to belong to one or other shore of the mainland, from this point of view is an isle
indeed, loading the lake with a weight of beauty, and giving it an ineffable character of richness
which nowhere else does it possess; while the other lesser isles, dropt "in nature's careless
haste" between it and the Furness Fells, connect it still with those lovely shores from which
it floats a short way apart, without being disunited--one spirit blending the whole together
within the compass of a fledgling's flight. Beyond these

    "Sister isles, that smile
    Together like a happy family
    Of beauty and of love,"

the eye meets the Rayrig woods, with but a gleam of water between, only visible in sunshine,
and is gently conducted by them up the hills of Applethwaite, diversified with cultivated enclosures,
"all green as emerald" to their very summits, with all their pastoral and arable grounds besprinkled
with stately single trees, copses, or groves. On the nearer side of these hills is seen, stretching
far off to other lofty regions--Hill-bell and High-street conspicuous over the rest--the long
vale of Troutbeck, with its picturesque cottages, in "numbers without number numberless," and
all its sable pines and sycamores--on the further side, that most sylvan of all sylvan mountains,
where lately the Hemans warbled her native wood-notes wild in her poetic bower, fitly called
Dove-nest, and beyond, Kirkstone Fells and Rydal Head, magnificent giants looking westward
to the Langdale Pikes (here unseen),

    "The last that parley with the setting sun."

Immediately in front, the hills are low and lovely, sloping with gentle undulations down to
the lake, here grove-girdled along all its shores. The elm-grove that overshadows the Parsonage
is especially conspicuous--stately and solemn in a green old age--and though now silent, in
spring and early summer clamorous with rooks in love or alarm, an ancient family, and not to
be expelled from their hereditary seats. Following the line of shore to the right, and turning
your eyes unwillingly away from the bright and breezy Belfield, they fall on the elegant architecture
of Storr's Hall, gleaming from a glade in the thick woods, and still looking southward they
see a serene series of the same forest scenery, along the heights of Gillhead and Gummer's-How,
till Windermere is lost, apparently narrowed into a river, beyond Townhead and Fellfoot, where
the prospect is closed by a beaconed eminence clothed with shadowy trees to the very base of
the Tower. The points and promontories jutting into the lake from these and the opposite shores--which
are of a humbler, though not tame character--are all placed most felicitously; and as the lights
and shadows keep shifting on the water, assume endless varieties of relative position to the
eye, so that often during one short hour you might think you had been gazing on Windermere
with a kaleidoscopical eye, that had seemed to create the beauty which in good truth is floating
there for ever on the bosom of nature.

That description, perhaps, is not so very much amiss; but should you think otherwise, be so
good as give us a better: meanwhile let us descend from The Station--and its stained windows--stained
into setting sunlight--frost and snow--the purpling autumn--and the first faint vernal green--and
re-embark at the Ferry-House pier. Berkshire Island is fair--but we have always looked at it
with an evil eye since unable to weather it in our old schooner, one day when the Victory,
on the same tack, shot by us to windward like a salmon. But now we are half-way between Storr's
Point and Rawlinson's Nab--so, my dear Garnet, down with the helm and let us put about (who
is that catching crabs?) for a fine front view of the Grecian edifice. It does honour to the
genius of Gandy--and say what people choose of a classic clime, the light of a Westmoreland
sky falls beautifully on that marble-like stone, which, whether the heavens be in gloom or
glory, "shines well where it stands," and flings across the lake a majestic shadow. Methought
there passed along the lawn the image of one now in his tomb! The memory of that bright day
returns, when Windermere glittered with all her sails in honour of the great Northern Minstrel,
and of him the Eloquent, whose lips are now mute in the dust. Methinks we see his smile benign--that
we hear his voice silver-sweet!

    "But away with melancholy,
    Nor doleful changes ring"--

as such thoughts came like shadows, like shadows let them depart--and spite of that which happeneth
to all men--"this one day we give to merriment." Pull, Billy, pull--or we will turn you round--and
in that case there is no refreshment nearer than Newby-bridge. The Naiad feels the invigorated
impulse--and her cut-water murmurs to the tune of six knots through the tiny cataract foaming
round her bows. The woods are all running down the lake,--and at that rate, by two post meridiem
will be in the sea.

Commend us--on a tour--to lunch and dinner in one. 'Tis a saving both of time and money--and
of all the dinner-lunches that ever were set upon a sublunary table, the facile principes are
the dinner-lunches you may devour in the White Lion, Bowness. Take a walk--and a seat on the
green that overlooks the village, almost on a level with the lead-roof of the venerable church--while
Hebe is laying the cloth for a repast fit for Jove, Juno, and the other heathen gods and goddesses;
and if you must have politics--why, call for the Standard or Sun (Heavens! there is that hawk
already at the Times), and devote a few hurried and hungry minutes to the French Revolution.
Why, the Green of all Greens--often traced by us of yore beneath the midnight moonlight, till
a path was worn along the edge of the low wall, still called "North's Walk"--is absolutely
converted into a reading-room, and our laking party into a political club. There is Louisa
with the Leeds Intelligencer--and Matilda with the Morning Herald--and Harriet with that York
paper worth them all put together--for it tells of Priam, and the Cardinal, and St Nicholas--but,
hark! a soft footstep! And then a soft voice--no dialect or accent pleasanter than the Westmoreland--whispers
that the dinner-lunch is on the table--and no leading article like a cold round of beef, or
a veal pie. Let the Parisians settle their Constitution as they will--meanwhile let us strengthen
ours; and after a single glass of Madeira--and a horn of home-brewed--let us off on foot--on
horseback--in gig--car and chariot--to Troutbeck.

It is about a Scottish mile, we should think, from Bowness to Cook's House--along the turnpike
road--half the distance lying embowered in the Rayrig woods--and half open to lake, cloud,
and sky. It is pleasant to lose sight now and then of the lake along whose banks you are travelling,
especially if during separation you become a Druid. The water woos you at your return with
her bluest smile, and her whitest murmur. Some of the finest trees in all the Rayrig woods
have had the good sense to grow by the roadside, where they can see all that is passing--and
make their own observations on us deciduous plants. Few of them seem to be very old--not much
older than Christopher North--and, like him, they wear well, trunk sound to the core, arms
with a long sweep, and head in fine proportions of cerebral development, fortified against
all storms--perfect pictures of oaks in their prime. You may see one--without looking for it--near
a farmhouse called Miller-ground--himself a grove. His trunk is clothed in a tunic of moss,
which shows the ancient Sylvan to great advantage, and it would be no easy matter to give him
a fall. Should you wish to see Windermere in all her glory, you have but to enter a gate a
few yards on this side of his shade, and ascend an eminence called by us Greenbank--but you
had as well leave your red mantle in the carriage, for an enormous white, long-horned Lancashire
bull has for some years established his head-quarters not far off, and you would not wish your
wife to become a widow, with six fatherless children. But the royal road of poetry is often
the most splendid--and by keeping the turnpike, you soon find yourself on a terrace to which
there was nothing to compare in the hanging gardens of Babylon. There is the widest breadth
of water--the richest foreground of wood--and the most magnificent background of mountains--not
only in Westmoreland but--believe us--in all the world. That blue roof is Calgarth--and no
traveller ever pauses on this brow without giving it a blessing--for the sake of the illustrious
dead; for there long dwelt in the body Richard Watson, the Defender of the Faith, and there
within the shadow of his memory still dwell those, dearest on earth to his beatified spirit.
So pass along in high and solemn thought, till you lose sight of Calgarth in the lone road
that leads by St Catharine's, and then relapse into pleasant fancies and picturesque dreams.
This is the best way by far of approaching Troutbeck. No ups and downs in this life were ever
more enlivening--not even the ups and downs of a bird learning to fly. Sheep-fences, six feet
high, are admirable contrivances for shutting out scenery; and by shutting out much scenery,
why, you confer an unappreciable value on the little that remains visible, and feel as if you
could hug it to your heart. But sometimes one does feel tempted to shove down a few roods of
intercepting stone-wall higher than the horse-hair on a cuirassier's casque--though sheep should
eat the suckers and scions, protected as they there shoot, at the price of the concealment
of the picturesque and the poetical from beauty-searching eyes. That is a long lane, it is
said, which has never a turning; so this must be a short one, which has a hundred. You have
turned your back on Windermere--and our advice to you is, to keep your face to the mountains.
Troutbeck is a jewel--a diamond of a stream--but Bobbin Mills have exhausted some of the most
lustrous pools, changing them into shallows, where the minnows rove. Deep dells are his delight--and
he loves the rugged scaurs that intrench his wooded banks--and the fantastic rocks that tower-like
hang at intervals over his winding course, and seem sometimes to block it up; but the miner
works his way out beneath galleries and arches in the living stone--sometimes silent--sometimes
singing--and sometimes roaring like thunder--till subsiding into a placid spirit, ere he reaches
the wooden bridge in the bonny holms of Calgarth, he glides graceful as the swan that sometimes
sees his image in his breast, and through alder and willow banks murmurs away his life in the Lake.

Yes--that is Troutbeck Chapel--one of the smallest--and to our eyes the very simplest--of all
the chapels among the hills. Yet will it be remembered when more pretending edifices are forgotten--just
like some mild, sensible, but perhaps somewhat too silent person, whose acquaintanceship--nay,
friendship--we feel a wish to cultivate we scarce know why, except that he is mild, sensible,
and silent; whereas we would not be civil to the brusque, upsetting, and loquacious puppy at
his elbow, whose information is as various as it is profound, were one word or look of courtesy
to save him from the flames. For Heaven's sake, Louisa, don't sketch Troutbeck Chapel. There
is nothing but a square tower--a horizontal roof--and some perpendicular walls. The outlines
of the mountains here have no specific character. That bridge is but a poor feature--and the
stream here very commonplace. Put them not on paper. Yet alive--is not the secluded scene felt
to be most beautiful? It has a soul. The pure spirit of the pastoral age is breathing here--in
this utter noiselessness there is the oblivion of all turmoil; and as the bleating of flocks
comes on the ear, along the fine air, from the green pastures of the Kentmere range of soft
undulating hills, the stilled heart whispers to itself, "this is peace!"

The worst of it is, that of all the people that on earth do dwell, your Troutbeck statesmen,
we have heard, are the most litigious--the most quarrelsome about straws. Not a footpath, in
all the parish that has not cost many pounds in lawsuits. The most insignificant style is referred
to a full bench of magistrates. That gate was carried to the Quarter Sessions. No branch of
a tree can shoot six inches over a march-wall without being indicted for a trespass. And should
a frost-loosened stone tumble from some skrees down upon a neighbour's field, he will be served
with a notice to quit before next morning. Many of the small properties hereabouts have been
mortgaged over head and ears mainly to fee attorneys. Yet the last hoop of apples will go the
same road--and the statesman, driven at last from his paternal fields, will sue for something
or another in formâ pauperis, were it but the worthless wood and second-hand nails that may
be destined for his coffin. This is a pretty picture of pastoral life--but we must take pastoral
life as we find it. Nor have we any doubt that things were every whit as bad in the time of
the patriarchs--else--whence the satirical sneer, "sham Abraham?" Yonder is the village straggling
away up along the hill-side, till the furthest house seems a rock fallen with trees from the
mountain. The cottages stand for the most part in clusters of twos or threes--with here and
there what in Scotland we should call a clachan--many a sma' toun within the ae lang toun;
but where in all braid Scotland is a mile-long scattered congregation of rural dwellings, all
dropt down where the Painter and the Poet would have wished to plant them, on knolls and in
dells, and on banks and braes, and below tree-crested rocks, and all bound together in picturesque
confusion by old groves of ash, oak, and sycamore, and by flower-gardens and fruit-orchards,
rich as those of the Hesperides?

If you have no objections--our pretty dears--we shall return to Bowness by Lowood. Let us form
a straggling line of march--so that we may one and all indulge in our own silent fancies--and
let not a word be spoken, virgins--under the penalty of two kisses for one syllable--till we
crown the height above Briary-Close. Why, there it is already--and we hear our musical friend's
voice-accompanied guitar. From the front of his cottage, the head and shoulders of Windermere
are seen in their most majestic shape--and from nowhere else is the long-withdrawing Langdale
so magnificently closed by mountains. There at sunset hangs "Cloudland, gorgeous land," by
gazing on which for an hour we shall all become poets and poetesses. Who said that Windermere
was too narrow? The same critic who thinks the full harvest moon too round--and despises the
twinkling of the evening star. It is all the way down--from head to foot--from the Brathay
to the Leven--of the proper breadth precisely--to a quarter of an inch. Were the reeds in Poolwyke
Bay--on which the birds love to balance themselves--at low or high water, to be visible longer
or shorter than what they have always been in the habit of being on such occasions since first
we brushed them with an oar, when landing in our skiff from the Endeavour, the beauty of the
whole of Windermere would be impaired--so exquisitely adapted is that pellucid gleam to the
lips of its sylvan shores. True, there are flaws in the diamond--but only when the squalls
come; and as the blackness sweeps by, that diamond of the first water is again sky-bright and
sky-blue as an angel's eyes. Lowood Bay--we are now embarked in Mr Jackson's prettiest pinnace--when
the sun is westering--which it now is--surpasses all other bays in fresh-water mediterraneans.
Eve loves to see her pensive face reflected in that serenest mirror. To flatter such a divinity
is impossible--but sure she never wears a smile so divine as when adjusting her dusky tresses
in that truest of all glasses, set in the richest of all frames. Pleased she retires--with
a wavering motion--and casting "many a longing, lingering look behind," fades indistinctly
away among the Brathay woods; while Night, her elder sister, or rather her younger--we really
know not which--takes her place at the darkening mirror, till it glitters with her crescent-moon-coronet,
wreathed perhaps with a white cloud, and just over the silver bow the lustre of one large yellow
star.

As none of the party complain of hunger, let us crack among us a single bottle of our worthy
host's choice old Madeira--and then haste in the barouche (ha! here it is) to Bowness. It is
right now to laugh--and sing--and recite poetry--and talk all manner of nonsense. Didn't ye
hear something crack? Can it be a spring--or merely the axle-tree? Our clerical friend from
Chester assures us 'twas but a string of his guitar--so no more shrieking--and after coffee
we shall have

    "Rise up, rise up, Xarifa, lay your golden cushion down!"

And then we two, my dear sir, must have a contest at chess--at which, if you beat us, we shall
leave our bed at midnight, and murder you in your sleep. "But where," murmurs Matilda, "are
we going?" To Oresthead, love--and Elleray--for you must see a sight these sweet eyes of thine
never saw before--a SUNSET.

We have often wondered if there be in the world one woman indisputably and undeniably the most
beautiful of all women--or if, indeed, our first mother were "the loveliest of her daughters,
Eve." What human female beauty is all men feel--but few men know--and none can tell--further
than that it is perfect spiritual health, breathingly embodied in perfect corporeal flesh and
blood, according to certain heaven-framed adaptations of form and hue, that by a familiar yet
inscrutable mystery, to our senses and our souls express sanctity and purity of the immortal
essence enshrined within, by aid of all associated perceptions and emotions that the heart
and the imagination can agglomerate round them, as instantly and as unhesitatingly as the faculties
of thought and feeling can agglomerate round a lily or a rose, for example, the perceptions
and emotions that make them--by divine right of inalienable beauty--the Royal Families of Flowers.
This definition--or description rather--of human female beauty, may appear to some, as indeed
it appears to us, something vague; but all profound truths--out of the exact sciences--are
something vague; and it is manifestly the design of a benign and gracious Providence that they
should be so till the end of time--till mortality puts on immortality--and earth is heaven.
Vagueness, therefore, is no fault in philosophy--any more than in the dawn of morning, or the
gloaming of eve. Enough, if each clause of the sentence that seeks to elucidate a confessed
mystery, has a meaning harmonious with all the meanings in all the other clauses--and that
the effect of the whole taken together is musical--and a tune. Then it is Truth. For all Falsehood
is dissonant--and verity is consent. It is our faith, that the souls of some women are angelic--or
nearly so--by nature and the Christian religion; and that the faces and persons of some women
are angelic, or nearly so--whose souls, nevertheless, are seen to be far otherwise--and, on
that discovery, beauty fades or dies. But may not soul and body--spirit and matter--meet in
perfect union at birth; and grow together into a creature, though of spiritual mould, comparable
with Eve before the Fall? Such a creature--such creatures--may have been; but the question
is--did you ever see one? We almost think that we have--but many long years ago;

    "She is dedde,
    Gone to her death-bedde
    All under the willow-tree."

And it may be that her image in the moonlight of memory and imagination may be more perfectly
beautiful than she herself ever was, when

    "Upgrew that living flower beneath our eye."

Yes--'tis thus that we form to ourselves--incommunicably within our souls--what we choose to
call Ideal Beauty--that is, a life-in-death image or Eidolon of a Being whose voice was once
heard, and whose footsteps once wandered among the flowers of this earth. But it is a mistake
to believe that such beauty as this can visit the soul only after the original in which it
once breathed is no more. For as it can only be seen by profoundest passion--and the profoundest
are the passions of Love, and Pity, and Grief--then why may not each and all of these passions--when
we consider the constitution of this world and this life--be awakened in their utmost height
and depth by the sight of living beauty, as well as by the memory of the dead? To do so is
surely within "the reachings of our souls,"--and if so, then may the virgin beauty of his daughter,
praying with folded hands and heavenward face when leaning in health on her father's knees,
transcend even the ideal beauty which shall afterwards visit his slumbers nightly, long years
after he has laid her head in the grave. If by ideal beauty you mean a beauty beyond whatever
breathed, and moved, and had its being on earth--then we suspect that not even "that inner
eye which is the bliss of solitude" ever beheld it; but if you merely mean by ideal beauty,
that which is composed of ideas, and of the feelings attached by nature to ideas, then, begging
your pardon, my good sir, all beauty whatever is ideal--and you had better begin to study metaphysics.

But what we were wishing to say is this--that whatever may be the truth with regard to human
female beauty--Windermere, seen by sunset from the spot where we now stand, Elleray, is at
this moment the most beautiful scene on this earth. The reasons why it must be so are multitudinous.
Not only can the eye take in, but the imagination, in its awakened power, can master all the
component elements of the spectacle--and while it adequately discerns and sufficiently feels
the influence of each, is alive throughout all its essence to the divine agency of the whole.
The charm lies in its entirety--its unity, which is so perfect--so seemeth it to our eyes--that
'tis in itself a complete world--of which not a line could be altered without disturbing the
spirit of beauty that lies recumbent there, wherever the earth meets the sky. There is nothing
here fragmentary; and had a poet been born, and bred here all his days, nor known aught of
fair or grand beyond this liquid vale, yet had he sung truly and profoundly of the shows of
nature. No rude and shapeless masses of mountains--such as too often in our own dear Scotland
encumber the earth with dreary desolation--with gloom without grandeur--and magnitude without
magnificence. But almost in orderly array, and irregular just up to the point of the picturesque,
where poetry is not needed for the fancy's pleasure, stand the Race of Giants--mist-veiled
transparently--or crowned with clouds slowly settling of their own accord into all the forms
that Beauty loves, when with her sister-spirit Peace she descends at eve from highest heaven
to sleep among the shades of earth.

Sweet would be the hush of lake, woods, and skies, were it not so solemn! The silence is that
of a temple, and, as we face the west, irresistibly are we led to adore. The mighty sun occupies
with his flaming retinue all the region. Mighty yet mild--for from his disc, awhile insufferably
bright, is effused now a gentle crimson light, that dyes all the west in one uniform glory,
save where yet round the cloud edges lingers the purple, the green, and the yellow lustre,
unwilling to forsake the violet beds of the sky, changing, while we gaze, into heavenly roses;
till that prevailing crimson colour at last gains entire possession of the heavens, and all
the previous splendour gives way to one, whose paramount purity, lustrous as fire, is in its
steadfast beauty sublime. And, lo! the lake has received that sunset into its bosom. It, too,
softly burns with a crimson glow--and, as sinks the sun below the mountains, Windermere, gorgeous
in her array as the western sky, keeps fading away as it fades, till at last all the ineffable
splendour expires, and the spirit that has been lost to this world in the transcendent vision,
or has been seeing all things appertaining to this world in visionary symbols, returns from
that celestial sojourn, and knows that its lot is, henceforth as heretofore, to walk weariedly
perhaps, and woe-begone, over the no longer divine but disenchanted earth!

It is very kind in the moon and stars--just like them--to rise so soon after sunset. The heart
sinks at the sight of the sky, when a characterless night succeeds such a blaze of light--like
dull reality dashing the last vestiges of the brightest of dreams. When the moon is "hid in
her vacant interlunar cave," and not a star can "burst its cerements," imagination in the dim
blank droops her wings--our thoughts become of the earth earthly--and poetry seems a pastime
fit but for fools and children. But how different our mood, when

    "Glows the firmament with living sapphires,"

and Diana, who has ascended high in heaven, without our having once observed the divinity,
bends her silver bow among the rejoicing stars, while the lake, like another sky, seems to
contain its own luminaries, a different division of the constellated night! 'Tis merry Windermere
no more. Yet we must not call her melancholy--though somewhat sad she seems, and pensive, as
if the stillness of universal nature did touch her heart. How serene all the lights--how peaceful
all the shadows! Steadfast alike--as if they would brood for ever--yet transient as all loveliness--and
at the mercy of every cloud. In some places, the lake has disappeared--in others, the moonlight
is almost like sunshine--only silver instead of gold. Here spots of quiet light--there lines
of trembling lustre--and there a flood of radiance checkered by the images of trees. Lo! the
Isle called Beautiful has now gathered upon its central grove all the radiance issuing from
that celestial Urn; and almost in another moment it seems blended with the dim mass of mainland,
and blackness enshrouds the woods. Still as seems the night to unobservant eyes, it is fluctuating
in its expression as the face of a sleeper overspread with pleasant but disturbing dreams.
Never for any two successive moments is the aspect of the night the same--each smile has its
own meaning, its own character; and Light is felt to be like Music, to have a melody and a
harmony of its own--so mysteriously allied are the powers and provinces of eye and ear, and
by such a kindred and congenial agency do they administer to the workings of the spirit.

Well, that is very extraordinary--Rain--rain--rain! All the eyes of heaven were bright as bright
might be--the sky was blue as violets--that braided whiteness, that here and there floated
like a veil on the brow of night, was all that recalled the memory of clouds--and as for the
moon, no faintest halo yellowed round her orb, that seemed indeed "one perfect chrysolite;"--yet
while all the winds seemed laid asleep till morn, and beauty to have chained all the elements
into peace--overcast in a moment is the firmament--an evanishing has left it blank as mist--there
is a fast, thick, pattering on the woods--yes--rain--rain-- rain--and ere we reach Bowness,
the party will be wet through to their skins. Nay--matters are getting still more serious--for
there was lightning--yea, lightning! Ten seconds! and hark, very respectable thunder! With
all our wisdom, we have not been weather-wise--or we should have known, when we saw it, an
electrical sunset. Only look now towards the West. There floats Noah's Ark--a magnificent spectacle;
and now for the Flood. That far-off sullen sound proclaims cataracts. And what may mean that
sighing and moaning and muttering up among the cliffs? See--see how the sheet lightning shows
the long lake-shore all tumbling with foamy breakers. A strong wind is there--but here there
is not a breath. But the woods across the lake are bowing their heads to the blast. Windermere
is in a tumult--the storm comes flying on wings all abroad--and now we are in the very heart
of the hurricane. See, in Bowness is hurrying many a light--for the people fear we may be on
the lake; and faithful Billy, depend on't, is launching his life-boat to go to our assistance.
Well, this is an adventure.--But soft--what ails our Argand Lamp! Our study is in such darkness
that we cannot see our paper--in the midst of a thunderstorm we conclude, and to bed by a flaff
of lightning.

THE MOORS.

PROLOGUE.

Once we knew the Highlands absolutely too well--not a nook that was not as familiar to us as
our brown study. We had not to complain of the lochs, glens, woods, and mountains alone, for
having so fastened themselves upon us on a great scale that we found it impossible to shake
them off; but the hardship in our case was, that all the subordinate parts of the scenery,
many of them dull and dreary enough, and some of them intolerably tedious, had taken it upon
themselves so to thrust their intimacy upon us, in all winds and weathers, that without giving
them the cut direct there was no way of escaping from the burden of their friendship. To courteous
and humane Christians, such as we have always been both by name and nature as far back as we
can recollect, it is painful to cut even an impudent stone, or an upsetting tree that may cross
our path uncalled for, or obtrude itself on our privacy when we wish to be alone in our meditations.
Yet, we confess, they used sometimes sorely to try our temper. It is all very well for you,
our good sir, to say in excuse for them that such objects are inanimate. So much the worse.
Were they animate, like yourself, they might be reasoned with on the impropriety of interrupting
the stream of any man's soliloquies. But being not merely inanimate but irrational, objects
of that class know not to keep their own place, which indeed, it may be said in reply, is kept
for them by nature. But that Mistress of the Ceremonies, though enjoying a fine green old age,
cannot be expected to be equally attentive to the proceedings of all the objects under her
control. Accordingly, often when she is not looking, what more common than for a huge hulking
fellow of a rock, with an absurd tuft of trees on his head, who has observed you lying half-asleep
on the greensward, to hang eavesdropping, as it were, over your most secret thoughts, which
he whispers to the winds, and they to all the clouds! Or for some grotesque and fantastic ash,
with a crooked back, and arms disproportionately long, like a giant in extreme old age dwindling
into a dwarf, to jut out from the hole in the wall, and should your leaden eye chance at the
time to love the ground, to put his mossy fist right in your philosophical countenance! In
short, it is very possible to know a country so thoroughly well, outside and in, from mountain
to mole-hill, that you get mutually tired of one another's company, and are ready to vent your
quarrel in reciprocal imprecations.

So was it once with us and the Highlands. That "too much familiarity breeds contempt" we learned
many a long year ago, when learning to write large text; and passages in our life have been
a running commentary on the theme then set us by that incomparable caligraphist, Butterworth.
All "the old familiar faces" occasionally come in for a portion of that feeling; and on that
account, we are glad that we saw, but for one day and one night, Charles Lamb's. Therefore,
some dozen years ago we gave up the Highlands, not wishing to quarrel with them, and confined
our tender assiduities to the Lowlands, while, like two great flats as we were, we kept staring
away at each other, with our lives on the same level. All the consequences that might naturally
have been expected have ensued; and we are now as heartily sick of the Lowlands, and they of
us. What can we do but return to our First Love?

Allow us to offer another view of the subject. There is not about Old Age one blessing more
deserving gratitude to Heaven, than the gradual bedimming of memory brought on by years. In
youth, all things, internal and external, are unforgetable, and by the perpetual presence of
passion oppress the soul. The eye of a woman haunts the victim on whom it may have given a
glance, till he leaps perhaps out of a four-story window. A beautiful lake, or a sublime mountain,
drives a young poet as mad as a March hare. He loses himself in an interminable forest louring
all round the horizon of a garret six feet square. It matters not to him whether his eyes be
open or shut. He is at the mercy of all Life and all Nature, and not for one hour can he escape
from their persecutions. His soul is the slave of the Seven Senses, and each is a tyrant with
instruments of torture, to whom and to which Phalaris, with his brazen bull, was a pointless
joke. But in old age "the heart of a man is oppressed with care" no longer; the Seven Tyrants
have lost their sceptres, and are dethroned; and the grey-headed gentleman feels that his soul
has "set up its rest." His eyes are dazzled no more with insufferable light--no more his ears
tingle with music too exquisite to be borne--no more his touch is transport. The scents of
nature, stealing from the balmy mouths of lilies and roses, are deadened in his nostrils. He
is above and beyond the reach of all the long arms of many-handed misery, as he is out of the
convulsive clutch of bliss. And is not this the state of best happiness for mortal man? Tranquillity!
The peaceful air that we breathe as we are westering towards the sunset-regions of our Being,
and feel that we are about to drop down for ever out of sight behind the Sacred Mountains.

All this may be very fine, but cannot be said to help us far on with our Prologue. Let us try
it again. Old men, we remarked, ought to be thankful to Heaven for their dim memories. Never
do we feel that more profoundly than when dreaming about the Highlands. All is confusion. Nothing
distinctly do we remember--not even the names of lochs and mountains. Where is Ben Cru--Cru--Cru--what's-his-name?
Ay--ay--Cruachan. At this blessed moment we see his cloud-capped head--but we have clean forgotten
the silver sound of the name of the county he encumbers. Ross-shire? Nay, that won't do--he
never was at Tain. We are assured by Dr Reid's, Dr Beattie's, and Dugald Stewart's great Instinctive
First Principle Belief, that oftener than once, or ten times either, have we been in a day-long
hollow among precipices dear to eagles, called Glen-Etive. But where begins or where ends that
"severe sojourn" is now to us a mystery--though we hear the sound of the sea and the dashing
of cataracts. Yet though all is thus dim in our memory, would you believe it that nothing is
utterly lost? No, not even the thoughts that soared like eagles vanishing in the light--or
that dived like ravens into the gloom. They all reappear--those from the Empyrean--these from
Hades--reminding us of the good or the evil borne in other days, within the spiritual regions
of our boundless being. The world of eye and ear is not in reality narrowed because it glimmers;
ever and anon as years advance, a light direct from heaven dissipates the gloom, and bright
and glorious as of yore the landscape laughs to the sea, the sea to heaven, and heaven back
again to the gazing spirit that leaps forward to the hailing light with something of the same
divine passion that gave wings to our youth.

All this may be still finer, yet cannot be said, any more than the preceding paragraph, much
to help us on with our Prologue. To come then, if possible, to the point at once--We are happy
that our dim memory and our dim imagination restore and revive in our mind none but the characteristic
features of the scenery of the Highlands, unmixed with baser matter, and all floating magnificently
through a spiritual haze, so that the whole region is now more than ever idealised; and in
spite of all his present, past, and future prosiness--Christopher North, soon as in thought
his feet touch the heather, becomes a poet.

It has long been well known to the whole world that we are a sad egotist--yet our egotism,
so far from being a detraction from our attraction, seems to be the very soul of it, making
it impossible in nature for any reasonable being to come within its sphere, without being drawn
by sweet compulsion to the old wizard's heart. He is so humane! Only look at him for a few
minutes, and liking becomes love--love becomes veneration. And all this even before he has
opened his lips--by the mere power of his ogles and his temples. In his large mild blue eyes
is written not only his nature, but miraculously, in German text, his very name, #Christopher
North#. Mrs Gentle was the first to discover it; though we remember having been asked more
than once in our youth, by an alarmed virgin on whom we happened at the time to be looking
tender, "If we were aware that there was something preternatural in our eyes?" #Christopher#
is conspicuous in our right eye--#North# in our left; and when we wish to be incog., we either
draw their fringed curtains, or, nun-like, keep the tell-tale orbs fixed on the ground. Candour
whispers us to confess, that some years ago a child was exhibited at sixpence with WILLIAM
WOOD legible in its optics--having been affiliated, by ocular evidence, on a gentleman of that
name, who, with his dying breath, disowned the soft impeachment. But in that case nature had
written a vile scrawl--in ours her hand is firm, and goes off with a flourish.

Have you ever entered, all alone, the shadows of some dilapidated old burial-place, and in
a nook made beautiful by wild-briers and a flowering thorn, beheld the stone image of some
long-forgotten worthy lying on his grave? Some knight who perhaps had fought in Palestine,--or
some holy man, who in the Abbey--now almost gone--had led a long still life of prayer? The
moment you knew that you were standing among the dwellings of the dead, how impressive became
the ruins! Did not that stone image wax more and more lifelike in its repose? And as you kept
your eyes fixed on the features Time had not had the heart to obliterate, seemed not your soul
to hear the echoes of the Miserere sung by the brethren?

So looks Christopher--on his couch--in his ALCOVE. He is taking his siesta--and the faint shadows
you see coming and going across his face are dreams. 'Tis a pensive dormitory, and hangs undisturbed
in its spiritual region as a cloud on the sky of the Longest Day when it falls on the Sabbath.

What think you of OUR FATHER, alongside of the Pedlar in "The Excursion?" Wordsworth says--

                        "Amid the gloom,
    Spread by a brotherhood of lofty elms,
    Appear'd a roofless hut; four naked walls
    That stared upon each other! I look'd round,
    And to my wish and to my hope espied
    Him whom I sought; a man of reverend age,
    But stout and hale, for travel unimpair'd.
    There was he seen upon the cottage bench,
    Recumbent in the shade, as if asleep;
    An iron-pointed staff lay at his side."

Alas! "stout and hale" are words that could not be applied, without cruel mocking, to our figure.
"Recumbent in the shade" unquestionably he is--yet, "recumbent" is a clumsy word for such quietude;
and, recurring to our former image, we prefer to say, in the words of Wilson,--

    "Still is he as a frame of stone
    That in its stillness lies alone,
    With silence breathing from its face,
    For ever in some holy place,
    Chapel or aisle--on marble laid,
    With pale hands on his pale breast spread,
    An image humble, meek, and low,
    Of one forgotten long ago!"

No "iron-pointed staff lies at his side"--but "Satan's dread," THE CRUTCH! Wordsworth tells
us over again that the Pedlar--

            "With no appendage but a staff,
    The prized memorial of relinquish'd toils,
    Upon the cottage-bench reposed his limbs,
    Screen'd from the sun."

On his couch, in his Alcove, Christopher is reposing--not his limbs alone, but his very essence.
THE CRUTCH is, indeed, both de jure and de facto the prized memorial of toils--but, thank Heaven,
not relinquished toils; and then how characteristic of the dear merciless old man--hardly distinguishable
among the fringed draperies of his canopy, the dependent and independent KNOUT!

Was the Pedlar absolutely asleep? We shrewdly suspect not--'twas but a doze. "Recumbent in
the shade, as if asleep"--"Upon that cottage-bench reposed his limbs" induce us to lean to
the opinion that he was but on the border of the Land of Nod. Nay, the poet gets more explicit,
and with that minute particularity so charming in poetical description, finally informs us that

            "Supine the wanderer lay,
    His eyes, as if in drowsiness, half shut,
    The shadows of the breezy elms above
    Dappling his face."

It would appear, then, on an impartial consideration of all the circumstances of the case,
that the "man of reverend age," though "recumbent" and "supine" upon the "cottage bench," "as
if asleep," and "his eyes, as if in drowsiness, half shut," was in a mood between sleeping
and waking; and this creed is corroborated by the following assertion--

            "He had not heard the sound
    Of my approaching steps, and in the shade
    Unnoticed did I stand some minutes' space.
    At length I hail'd him, seeing that his hat
    Was moist with water-drops, as if the brim
    Had newly scoop'd a running stream."

He rose; and so do We, for probably by this time you may have discovered that we have been
describing Ourselves in our siesta or mid-day snooze--as we have been beholding in our mind's
eye our venerated and mysterious Double.

We cannot help flattering ourselves--if indeed it be flattery--that though no relative of his,
we have a look of the Pedlar--as he is elaborately painted by the hand of a great master in
the aforesaid Poem.

    "Him had I mark'd the day before--alone,
    And station'd in the public way, with, face
    Turn'd to the sun then setting, while that staff
    Afforded to the figure of the man,
    Detain'd for contemplation or repose,
    Graceful support," &c.

As if it were yesterday, we remember our first interview with the Bard. It was at the Lady's
Oak, between Ambleside and Rydal. We were then in the very flower of our age--just sixty; so
we need not say the century had then seen but little of this world. The Bard was a mere boy
of some six lustres, and had a lyrical-ballad look that established his identity at first sight,
all unlike the lackadaisical. His right hand was within his vest on the region of the heart,
and he ceased his crooning as we stood face to face. What a noble countenance! at once austere
and gracious--haughty and benign--of a man conscious of his greatness while yet companioning
with the humble--an unrecognised power dwelling in the woods. Our figure at that moment so
impressed itself on his imagination, that it in time supplanted the image of the real Pedlar,
and grew into the Emeritus of the Three Days. We were standing in that very attitude--having
deposited on the coping of the wall our Kit, since adopted by the British Army, with us at
once a library and a larder.

And again--and even more characteristically,--

              "Plain was his garb:
    Such as might suit a rustic sire, prepared
    For Sabbath duties; yet he was a man
    Whom no one could have pass'd without remark,
    Active and nervous was his gait; his limbs
    And his whole figure breathed intelligence.
    Time had compress'd the freshness of his cheeks
    Into a narrower circle of deep red,
    But had not tamed his eye, that under brows,
    Shaggy and grey, had meanings, which it brought
    From years of youth; whilst, like a being made
    Of many beings, he had wondrous skill
    To blend with knowledge of the years to come,
    Human, or such as lie beyond the grave."

In our intellectual characters we indulge the pleasing hope that there are some striking points
of resemblance, on which, however, our modesty will not permit us to dwell--and incur acquirements,
more particularly in Plane and Spherical Trigonometry:--

    "While yet he linger'd in the rudiments
    Of science, and among her simplest laws,
    His triangles--they were the stars of heaven,
    The silent stars! oft did he take delight
    To measure the altitude of some tall crag,
    That is the eagle's birthplace," &c.

So it was with us. Give us but a base and a quadrant--and when a student in Jemmy Millar's
class, we could have given you the altitude of any steeple in Glasgow or the Gorbals.

Occasionally, too, in a small party of friends, though, not proud of the accomplishment, we
have been prevailed on, as you may have heard, to delight humanity with a song--"The Flowers
of the Forest," "Roy's Wife," "Flee up, flee up, thou bonnie bonnie Cock," or "Auld Langsyne"--just
as the Pedlar

                    "At request would sing
    Old songs, the product of his native hills;
    A skilful distribution of sweet sounds,
    Feeding the soul, and eagerly imbibed
    As cool refreshing water, by the care
    Of the industrious husbandman diffused
    Through a parch'd meadow-field in time of drought."

Our natural disposition, too, is as amiable as that of the "Vagrant Merchant."

    "And surely never did there live on earth
    A man of kindlier nature. The rough sports
    And teasing ways of children vex'd not him:
    Indulgent listener was he to the tongue
    Of garrulous age; nor did the sick man's tale,
    To his fraternal sympathy address'd,
    Obtain reluctant hearing."

Who can read the following lines, and not think of Christopher North?

                    "Birds and beasts,
    And the mute fish that glances in the stream,
    And harmless reptile coiling in the sun,
    And gorgeous insect hovering in the air,
    The fowl domestic, and the household dog--
    In his capacious mind he loved them all."

True, that our love of

    "The mute fish that glances in the stream,"

is not incompatible with the practice of the "angler's silent trade," or with the pleasure
of "filling our pannier." The Pedlar, too, we have reason to know, was like his poet and ourselves,
in that art a craftsman, and for love beat the mole-catcher at busking a batch of May-flies.
We question whether Lascelles himself were his master at a green dragon. "The harmless reptile
coiling in the sun" we are not so sure about, having once been bit by an adder, whom in our
simplicity we mistook for a slow-worm--the very day, by the by, on which we were poisoned by
a dish of toadstools, by our own hand gathered for mushrooms. But we have long given over chasing
butterflies, and feel, as the Pedlar did, that they are beautiful creatures, and that 'tis
a sin between finger and thumb to compress their mealy wings. The household dog we do indeed
dearly love, though when old Surly looks suspicions we prudently keep out of the reach of his
chain. As for "the domestic fowl," we breed scores every spring, solely for the delight of
seeing them at their walks

    "Among the rural villages and farms;"

and though game to the back-bone, they are allowed to wear the spurs nature gave them--to crow
unclipped, challenging but the echoes; nor is the sward, like the sod, ever reddened with their
heroic blood, for hateful to our ears the war-song,

    "Welcome to your gory bed,
    Or to victory!"

'Tis our way, you know, to pass from gay to grave matter, and often from a jocular to a serious
view of the same subject--it being natural to us--and having become habitual too, from our
writing occasionally in Blackwood's Magazine. All the world knows our admiration of Wordsworth,
and admits that we have done almost as much as Jeffrey or Taylor to make his poetry popular
among the "educated circles." But we are not a nation of idolaters, and worship neither graven
image nor man that is born of a woman. We may seem to have treated the Pedlar with insufficient
respect in that playful parallel between him and Ourselves; but there you are wrong again,
for we desire thereby to do him honour. We wish now to say a few words on the wisdom of making
such a personage the chief character in a Philosophical Poem.

He is described as endowed by nature with a great intellect, a noble imagination, a profound
soul, and a tender heart. It will not be said that nature keeps these her noblest gifts for
human beings born in this or that condition of life: she gives them to her favourites--for
so, in the highest sense, they are to whom such gifts befall; and not unfrequently, in an obscure
place, of one of the FORTUNATI

              "The fulgent head
    Star-bright appears."

Wordsworth appropriately places the birth of such a being in a humble dwelling in the Highlands
of Scotland.

    "Among the hills of Atholl he was born;
    Where on a small hereditary farm,
    An unproductive slip of barren ground,
    His parents, with their numerous offspring, dwelt;
    A virtuous household, though exceeding poor."

His childhood was nurtured at home in Christian love and truth--and acquired other knowledge
at a winter school; for in summer he "tended cattle on the hill,"--

                                  "that stood
    Sole building on a mountain's dreary edge."

And the influence of such education and occupation among such natural objects, Wordsworth expounds
in some as fine poetry as ever issued from the cells of philosophic thought.

    "So the foundations of his mind were laid."

The boy had small need of books--

                            "For many a tale
    Traditionary, round the mountains hung,
    And many a legend, peopling the dark woods,
    Nourish'd Imagination in her growth,
    And gave the mind that apprehensive power
    By which she is made quick to recognise
    The moral properties and scope of things."

But in the Manse there were books--and he read

    "Whate'er the minister's old shelf supplied,
    The life and death of martyrs, who sustain'd,
    With will inflexible, those fearful pangs,
    Triumphantly display'd in records left
    Of persecution and the Covenant."

Can you not believe that by the time he was as old as you were when you used to ride to the
races on a pony, by the side of your sire the Squire, this boy was your equal in knowledge,
though you had a private tutor all to yourself, and were then a promising lad, as indeed you
are now after the lapse of a quarter of a century? True, as yet he "had small Latin, and no
Greek;" but the elements of these languages may be learned--trust us--by slow degrees--by the
mind rejoicing in the consciousness of its growing faculties--during leisure hours from other
studies--as they were by the Atholl adolescent. A Scholar--in your sense of the word--he might
not be called, even when he had reached his seventeenth year, though probably he would have
puzzled you in Livy and Virgil; nor of English poetry had he read much--the less the better
for such a mind--at that age, and in that condition--for

    "Accumulated feelings press'd his heart
    With still increasing weight; he was o'erpower'd
    By nature, by the turbulence subdued
    Of his own mind, by mystery and hope,
    And the first virgin passion of a soul
    Communing with the glorious Universe."

But he had read Poetry--ay, the same Poetry that Wordsworth's self read at the same age--and

                    "Among the hills
    He gazed upon that mighty Orb of Song,
    The divine Milton."

Thus endowed, and thus instructed,

    "By Nature, that did never yet betray
    The heart that loved her,"

the youth was "greater than he knew;" yet that there was something great in, as well as about
him, he felt--

    "Thus daily thirsting in that lonesome life,"

for some diviner communication than had yet been vouchsafed to him by the Giver and Inspirer
of his restless Being.

    "In dreams, in study, and in ardent thought,
    Thus was he rear'd; much wanting to assist
    The growth of intellect, yet gaining more,
    And every moral feeling of his soul
    Strengthen'd and braced, by breathing in content
    The keen, the wholesome air of poverty,
    And drinking from the well of homely life."

But he is in his eighteenth year, and

          "Is summon'd to select the course
    Of humble industry that promised best
    To yield him no unworthy maintenance."

For a season he taught a village school, which many a fine, high, and noble spirit has done
and is doing; but he was impatient of the hills he loved, and

    "That stern yet kindly spirit, who constrains
    The Savoyard to quit his native rocks,
    The free-born Swiss to leave his narrow vales
    (Spirit attach'd to regions mountainous
    Like their own steadfast clouds), did now impel
    His restless mind to look abroad with hope."

It had become his duty to choose a profession--a trade--a calling. He was not a gentleman,
mind ye, and had probably never so much as heard a rumour of the existence of a silver fork:
he had been born with a wooden spoon in his mouth--and had lived, partly from choice and partly
from necessity, on a vegetable diet. He had not ten pounds in the world he could call his own;
but he could borrow fifty, for his father's son was to be trusted to that amount by any family
that chanced to have it among the Atholl hills--therefore he resolved on "a hard service," which

    "Gain'd merited respect in simpler times;
    When squire, and priest, and they who round them dwelt
    In rustic sequestration, all dependent
    Upon the PEDLAR'S toil, supplied their wants,
    Or pleased their fancies with the ware he brought."

Would Alfred have ceased to be Alfred had he lived twenty years in the hut where he spoiled
the bannocks? Would Gustavus have ceased to be Gustavus had he been doomed to dree an ignoble
life in the obscurest nook in Dalecarlia? Were princes and peers in our day degraded by working,
in their expatriation, with head or hand for bread? Are the Polish patriots degraded by working
at eighteenpence a-day, without victuals, on embankments of railroads? These are Wordsworth's
own words, and deserve letters of gold. He has given many a shock to the prejudices of artificial
society; and in ten thousand cases, where the heart of such society was happily sound at the
core, notwithstanding the rotten kitchen-stuff with which it was encrusted, the shocks have
killed the prejudices; and men and women, encouraged to consult their own breasts, have heard
responses there to the truths uttered in music by the high-souled Bard, assuring them of an
existence there of capacities of pure delight, of which they had had either but a faint suspicion,
or, because "of the world's dread laugh," feared to indulge, and nearly let die.

Mr Wordsworth quotes from Heron's Scotland an interesting passage, illustrative of the life
led in our country at that time by that class of persons from whom he has chosen one--not,
mind you, imaginary, though for purposes of imagination--adding that "his own personal knowledge
emboldened him to draw the portrait." We have ourselves known gentlemen who had carried the
pack--one of them a man of great talents and acquirements--who lived in his old age in the
highest circles of society. Nobody troubled their head about his birth and parentage--for he
was then very rich; but you could not sit ten minutes in his company without feeling that he
was "one of God Almighty's gentlemen," belonging to the "aristocracy of Nature."

You have heard, we hope, of Alexander Wilson, the illustrious Ornithologist, second not even
to Audubon--and sometimes absurdly called the Great American Ornithologist, because with pen
and pencil he painted in colours that will never die--the Birds of the New World. He was a
weaver--a Paisley weaver--a useful trade, and a pleasant place--where these now dim eyes of
ours first saw the light. And Sandy was a pedlar. Hear his words in an autobiography unknown
to the Bard: "I have this day, I believe, measured the height of an hundred stairs, and explored
the recesses of twice that number of miserable habitations; and what have I gained by it?--only
two shillings of worldly pelf! but an invaluable treasure of observation. In this elegant dome,
wrapt up in glittering silks, and stretched on the downy sofa, recline the fair daughters of
wealth and indolence--the ample mirror, flowery floor, and magnificent couch, their surrounding
attendants; while, suspended in his wiry habitation above, the shrill-piped canary warbles
to enchanting echoes. Within the confines of that sickly hovel, hung round with squadrons of
his brother-artists, the pale-faced weaver plies the resounding lay, or launches the melancholy
murmuring shuttle. Lifting this simple latch, and stooping for entrance to the miserable hut,
there sits poverty and ever-moaning disease, clothed in dunghill rags, and ever shivering over
the fireless chimney. Ascending this stair, the voice of joy bursts on my ear--the bridegroom
and bride, surrounded by their jocund companions, circle the sparkling glass and humorous joke,
or join in the raptures of the noisy dance--the squeaking fiddle breaking through the general
uproar in sudden intervals, while the sounding floor groans beneath its unruly load. Leaving
these happy mortals, and ushering into this silent mansion, a more solemn--a striking object
presents itself to my view. The windows, the furniture, and everything that could lend one
cheerful thought, are hung in solemn white; and there, stretched pale and lifeless, lies the
awful corpse, while a few weeping friends sit, black and solitary, near the breathless clay.
In this other place, the fearless sons of Bacchus extend their brazen throats, in shouts like
bursting thunder, to the praise of their gorgeous chief. Opening this door, the lonely matron
explores, for consolation, her Bible; and in this house the wife brawls, the children shriek,
and the poor husband bids me depart, lest his termagant's fury should vent itself on me. In
short, such an inconceivable variety daily occurs to my observation in real life, that would,
were they moralised upon, convey more maxims of wisdom, and give a juster knowledge of mankind,
than whole volumes of Lives and Adventures, that perhaps never had a being except in the prolific
brains of their fantastic authors."

At a subsequent period he retraced his steps, taking with him copies of his poems to distribute
among subscribers, and endeavour to promote a more extensive circulation. Of this excursion
also he has given an account in his journal, from which it appears that his success was far
from encouraging. Among amusing incidents, sketches of character, occasional sound and intelligent
remarks upon the manners and prospects of the common classes of society into which he found
his way, there are not a few severe expressions indicative of deep disappointment, and some
that merely bespeak the keener pangs of the wounded pride founded on conscious merit. "You,"
says he, on one occasion, "whose souls are susceptible of the finest feelings, who are elevated
to rapture with the least dawnings of hope, and sunk into despondency with the slightest thwartings
of your expectations--think what I felt." Wilson himself attributed his ill fortune, in his
attempts to gain the humble patronage of the poor for his poetical pursuits, to his occupation.
"A packman is a character which none esteems, and almost every one despises. The idea that
people of all ranks entertain of them is, that they are mean-spirited loquacious liars, cunning
and illiterate, watching every opportunity, and using every mean art within their power, to
cheat." This is a sad account of the estimation in which a trade was then held in Scotland,
which the greatest of our living poets has attributed to the chief character in a poem comprehensive
of philosophical discussions on all the highest interests of humanity. But both Wilson and
Wordsworth are in the right: both saw and have spoken truth. Most small packmen were then,
in some measure, what Wilson says they were generally esteemed to be--peddling pilferers, and
insignificant swindlers. Poverty sent them swarming over bank and brae, and the "sma' kintra
touns"--and for a plack people will forget principle who have, as we say in Scotland, missed
the world. Wilson knew that to a man like himself there was degradation in such a calling;
and he latterly vented his contemptuous sense of it, exaggerating the baseness of the name
and nature of packman. But suppose such a man as Wilson to have been in better times one of
but a few packmen travelling regularly for years over the same country, each with his own district
or domain, and there can be no doubt that he would have been an object both of interest and
of respect--his opportunities of seeing the very best and the very happiest of humble life,
in itself very various, would have been very great; and with his original genius, he would
have become, like Wordsworth's Pedlar, a good moral Philosopher.

Without, therefore, denying the truth of his picture of packmanship, we may believe the truth
of a picture entirely the reverse, from the hand and heart of a still wiser man--though his
wisdom has been gathered from less immediate contact with the coarse garments and clay floors
of the labouring poor.

It is pleasant to hear Wordsworth speak of his own "personal knowledge" of packmen or pedlars.
We cannot say of him in the words of Burns, "the fient a pride, nae pride had he;" for pride
and power are brothers on earth, whatever they may prove to be in heaven. But his prime pride
is his poetry; and he had not now been "sole king of rocky Cumberland," had he not studied
the character of his subjects in "huts where poor men lie"--had he not "stooped his anointed
head" beneath the doors of such huts, as willingly as he ever raised it aloft, with all its
glorious laurels, in the palaces of nobles and princes. Yes, the inspiration he "derived from
the light of setting suns," was not so sacred as that which often kindled within his spirit
all the divinity of Christian man, when conversing charitably with his brother-man, a wayfarer
on the dusty high-road, or among the green lanes and alleys of merry England. You are a scholar,
and love poetry? Then here you have it of the finest, and will be sad to think that heaven
had not made you a pedlar.

    "In days of yore how fortunately fared
    The Minstrel! wandering on from Hall to Hall,
    Baronial Court or Royal; cheer'd with gifts
    Munificent, and love, and Ladies' praise;
    Now meeting on his road an armed Knight,
    Now resting with a Pilgrim by the side
    Of a clear brook;--beneath an Abbey's roof
    One evening sumptuously lodged; the next
    Humbly, in a religious Hospital;
    Or with some merry Outlaws of the wood;
    Or haply shrouded in a Hermit's cell.
    Him, sleeping or awake, the Robber spared;
    He walk'd--protected from the sword of war
    By virtue of that sacred Instrument
    His Harp, suspended at the Traveller's side,
    His dear companion wheresoe'er he went,
    Opening from Land to Land an easy way
    By melody, and by the charm of verse.
    Yet not the noblest of that honour'd Race
    Drew happier, loftier, more impassion'd thoughts
    From his long journeyings and eventful life,
    Than this obscure Itinerant had skill
    To gather, ranging through the tamer ground
    Of these our unimaginative days;
    Both while he trod the earth in humblest guise,
    Accoutred with his burden and his staff;
    And now, when free to move with lighter pace.

    "What wonder, then, if I, whose favourite School
    Hath been the fields, the roads, and rural lanes,
    Look'd on this Guide with reverential love?
    Each with the other pleased, we now pursued
    Our journey--beneath favourable skies.
    Turn wheresoe'er we would, he was a light
    Unfailing: not a hamlet could we pass,
    Rarely a house, that did not yield to him
    Remembrances; or from his tongue call forth
    Some way-beguiling tale.
    --Nor was he loth to enter ragged huts,
    Huts where his charity was blest; his voice
    Heard as the voice of an experienced friend.
    And, sometimes, where the Poor Man held dispute
    With his own mind, unable to subdue
    Impatience, through inaptness to perceive
    General distress in his particular lot;
    Or cherishing resentment, or in vain
    Struggling against it, with a soul perplex'd,
    And finding in herself no steady power
    To draw the line of comfort that divides
    Calamity, the chastisement of Heaven,
    From the injustice of our brother men;
    To him appeal was made as to a judge;
    Who, with an understanding heart, allay'd
    The perturbation; listen'd to the plea;
    Resolved the dubious point; and sentence gave
    So grounded, so applied, that it was heard
    With soften'd spirit--e'en when it condemn'd."

What was to hinder such a man--thus born and thus bred--with such a youth and such a prime--from
being in his old age worthy of walking among the mountains with Wordsworth, and descanting

    "On man, on nature, and on human life?"

And remember he was a Scotsman--compatriot of CHRISTOPHER NORTH.

What would you rather have had the Sage in "The Excursion" to have been? The Senior Fellow
of a College? A head? A retired Judge? An Ex-Lord Chancellor? A Nabob? A Banker? A Millionaire?
or, at once to condescend on individuals, Natus Consumere Fruges, Esquire? or the Honourable
Custos Rotulorum?

    "Who is he that bounds with joy
    On Carrock's side, a shepherd boy?
    No thoughts hath he but thoughts that pass
    Light as the wind along the grass.
    Can this be He that hither came
    In secret, like a smother'd flame?
    For whom such thoughtful tears were shed.
    For shelter and a poor man's bread?"

Who but the same noble boy whom his high-born mother in disastrous days had confided when an
infant to the care of a peasant. Yet there he is no longer safe--and

    "The Boy must part from Mosedale groves,
    And leave Blencathara's ragged coves,
    And quit the flowers that summer brings
    To Glenderamakin's lofty springs;
    Must vanish, and his careless cheer
    Be turn'd to heaviness and fear."

Sir Launcelot Threlkeld shelters him till again he is free to set his foot on the mountains.

    "Again he wanders forth at will,
    And tends a flock from hill to hill:
    His garb is humble; ne'er was seen
    Such garb with such a noble mien;
    Among the shepherd grooms no mate
    Hath he, a child of strength and state."

So lives he till he is restored.

    "Glad were the vales, and every cottage hearth;
    The shepherd-lord was honour'd more and more;
    And, ages after he was laid in earth,
    'The good Lord Clifford' was the name he bore!"

Now mark--that Poem has been declared by one and all of the "Poets of Britain" to be equal
to anything in the language; and its greatness lies in the perfect truth of the profound philosophy
which so poetically delineates the education of the naturally noble character of Clifford.
Does he sink in our esteem because at the Feast of the Restoration he turns a deaf ear to the
fervent harper who sings,

    "Happy day and mighty hour,
    When our shepherd in his power,
    Mounted, mail'd, with lance and sword,
    To his ancestors restored,
    Like a reappearing star,
    Like a glory from afar,
    First shall head the flock of war"?

No--his generous nature is true to its generous nurture; and now deeply imbued with the goodness
he had too long loved in others ever to forget, he appears noblest when showing himself faithful
in his own hall to the "huts where poor men lie;" while we know not, at the solemn close, which
life the Poet has most glorified--the humble or the high--whether the Lord did the Shepherd
more ennoble, or the Shepherd the Lord.

Now, we ask, is there any essential difference between what Wordsworth thus records of the
high-born Shepherd-Lord in the Feast of Brougham Castle, and what he records of the low-born
Pedlar in "The Excursion?" None. They are both educated among the hills; and according to the
nature of their own souls and that of their education, is the progressive growth and ultimate
formation of their character. Both are exalted beings--because both are wise and good--but
to his own coeval he has given, besides eloquence and genius,

    "The vision and the faculty divine,"

that

    "When years had brought the philosophic mind"

he might walk through the dominions of the Intellect and the Imagination, a Sage and a Teacher.

