"Taking our stand on Ireland's separate and distinct nationhood, and affirming the principle
of liberty, that the Governments of nations derive their just powers from the consent of the
governed, we deny the right of the British Government or any external authority to impose compulsory
military service in Ireland against the clearly expressed will of the Irish people. The passing
of the Conscription Bill by the British House of Commons must be regarded as a declaration
of war on the Irish nation. The alternative to accepting it as such is to surrender our liberties
and to acknowledge ourselves slaves. It is in direct violation of the rights of small nationalities
to self-determination, which even the Prime Minister of England--now preparing to employ naked
militarism and force his Act upon Ireland--himself announced as an essential condition for
peace at the Peace Congress. The attempt to enforce it is an unwarrantable aggression, which
we call upon all Irishmen to resist by the most effective means at their disposal."

The Irish Catholic Bishops on the same day received a deputation from the Mansion House Conference,
and, having heard them, issued a manifesto, in the course of which they said:

"In view especially of the historic relations between the two countries from the very beginning
up to this moment, we consider that Conscription forced in this way upon Ireland is an oppressive
and inhuman law, which the Irish people have a right to resist by every means that are consonant
with the law of God."

The Irish Labour Party called a one-day strike on 23rd April as "a demonstration of fealty
to the cause of labour and Ireland."

The Government went on with its preparations for enforcing Conscription. The Lord-Lieutenant,
who was known to be opposed to the policy of the Ministry, was recalled, and Field-Marshal
Lord French was put in his place. A "German plot," which the late Viceroy declared had no existence
in fact, was supposed to be discovered, and in connection with it Messrs de Valera and A. Griffith,
the two Sinn Fein members of the Mansion House Conference, were arrested and deported. The
Sinn Fein, the Gaelic League and allied organisations were declared to be "dangerous associations."
Concerts, hurling matches, etc., were prohibited, and Ireland was frankly treated as an occupied
territory. A bye-election occurred in East Cavan and Mr Griffith--England's prisoner--was returned,
defeating a nominee of the Irish Party. This gave the death-blow to Conscription, though Ireland
still stood sternly on guard.

The Mansion House Conference during its existence held a position of unique authority in the
country. During its sittings a proposal was made to initiate negotiations with a view to combined
action between Sinn Fein, the two sections of Parliamentary Nationalists and the Irish Labour
bodies, on the basis of the concession of Dominion Home Rule, while the war was still proceeding
with the alternative, if the concession were refused, of combined action to enforce the claims
of Ireland at the Peace Conference. There was reason to believe Sinn Fein would agree to this
proposal, and that the Cabinet would have invited the Dominion Premiers' Conference to intervene
in favour of an Irish settlement, limited only by the formula: "within the Empire."

Mr Dillon blocked the way with the technical objection that the Conference was called to discuss
Conscription alone and that no other topic must be permitted to go further. Could stupid malignancy
or blind perversity go further?

