Emile is not fond of noise or quarrelling, not only among men, but among animals. [Footnote:
"But what will he do if any one seeks a quarrel with him?" My answer is that no one will ever
quarrel with him, he will never lend himself to such a thing. But, indeed, you continue, who
can be safe from a blow, or an insult from a bully, a drunkard, a bravo, who for the joy of
killing his man begins by dishonouring him? That is another matter. The life and honour of
the citizens should not be at the mercy of a bully, a drunkard, or a bravo, and one can no
more insure oneself against such an accident than against a falling tile. A blow given, or
a lie in the teeth, if he submit to them, have social consequences which no wisdom can prevent
and no tribunal can avenge. The weakness of the laws, therefore, so far restores a man's independence;
he is the sole magistrate and judge between the offender and himself, the sole interpreter
and administrator of natural law. Justice is his due, and he alone can obtain it, and in such
a case there is no government on earth so foolish as to punish him for so doing. I do not say
he must fight; that is absurd; I say justice is his due, and he alone can dispense it. If I
were king, I promise you that in my kingdom no one would ever strike a man or call him a liar,
and yet I would do without all those useless laws against duels; the means are simple and require
no law courts. However that may be, Emile knows what is due to himself in such a case, and
the example due from him to the safety of men of honour. The strongest of men cannot prevent
insult, but he can take good care that his adversary has no opportunity to boast of that insult.]
He will never set two dogs to fight, he will never set a dog to chase a cat. This peaceful
spirit is one of the results of his education, which has never stimulated self-love or a high
opinion of himself, and so has not encouraged him to seek his pleasure in domination and in
the sufferings of others. The sight of suffering makes him suffer too; this is a natural feeling.
It is one of the after effects of vanity that hardens a young man and makes him take a delight
in seeing the torments of a living and feeling creature; it makes him consider himself beyond
the reach of similar sufferings through his superior wisdom or virtue. He who is beyond the
reach of vanity cannot fall into the vice which results from vanity. So Emile loves peace.
He is delighted at the sight of happiness, and if he can help to bring it about, this is an
additional reason for sharing it. I do not assume that when he sees the unhappy he will merely
feel for them that barren and cruel pity which is content to pity the ills it can heal.  His
kindness is active and teaches him much he would have learnt far more slowly, or he would never
have learnt at all, if his heart had been harder. If he finds his comrades at strife, he tries
to reconcile them; if he sees the afflicted, he inquires as to the cause of their sufferings;
if he meets two men who hate each other, he wants to know the reason of their enmity; if he
finds one who is down-trodden groaning under the oppression of the rich and powerful, he tries
to discover by what means he can counteract this oppression, and in the interest he takes with
regard to all these unhappy persons, the means of removing their sufferings are never out of
his sight. What use shall we make of this disposition so that it may re-act in a way suited
to his age? Let us direct his efforts and his knowledge, and use his zeal to increase them.

I am never weary of repeating: let all the lessons of young people take the form of doing rather
than talking; let them learn nothing from books which they can learn from experience. How absurd
to attempt to give them practice in speaking when they have nothing to say, to expect to make
them feel, at their school desks, the vigour of the language of passion and all the force of
the arts of persuasion when they have nothing and nobody to persuade! All the rules of rhetoric
are mere waste of words to those who do not know how to use them for their own purposes. How
does it concern a schoolboy to know how Hannibal encouraged his soldiers to cross the Alps?
If instead of these grand speeches you showed him how to induce his prefect to give him a holiday,
you may be sure he would pay more attention to your rules.

If I wanted to teach rhetoric to a youth whose passions were as yet undeveloped, I would draw
his attention continually to things that would stir his passions, and I would discuss with
him how he should talk to people so as to get them to regard his wishes favourably.  But Emile
is not in a condition so favourable to the art of oratory.  Concerned mainly with his physical
well-being, he has less need of others than they of him; and having nothing to ask of others
on his own account, what he wants to persuade them to do does not affect him sufficiently to
awake any very strong feeling. From this it follows that his language will be on the whole
simple and literal.  He usually speaks to the point and only to make himself understood.  He
is not sententious, for he has not learnt to generalise; he does not speak in figures, for
he is rarely impassioned.

Yet this is not because he is altogether cold and phlegmatic, neither his age, his character,
nor his tastes permit of this. In the fire of adolescence the life-giving spirits, retained
in the blood and distilled again and again, inspire his young heart with a warmth which glows
in his eye, a warmth which is felt in his words and perceived in his actions. The lofty feeling
with which he is inspired gives him strength and nobility; imbued with tender love for mankind
his words betray the thoughts of his heart; I know not how it is, but there is more charm in
his open-hearted generosity than in the artificial eloquence of others; or rather this eloquence
of his is the only true eloquence, for he has only to show what he feels to make others share
his feelings.

The more I think of it the more convinced I am that by thus translating our kindly impulses
into action, by drawing from our good or ill success conclusions as to their cause, we shall
find that there is little useful knowledge that cannot be imparted to a youth; and that together
with such true learning as may be got at college he will learn a science of more importance
than all the rest together, the application of what he has learned to the purposes of life.
Taking such an interest in his fellow-creatures, it is impossible that he should fail to learn
very quickly how to note and weigh their actions, their tastes, their pleasures, and to estimate
generally at their true value what may increase or diminish the happiness of men; he should
do this better than those who care for nobody and never do anything for any one. The feelings
of those who are always occupied with their own concerns are too keenly affected for them to
judge wisely of things. They consider everything as it affects themselves, they form their
ideas of good and ill solely on their own experience, their minds are filled with all sorts
of absurd prejudices, and anything which affects their own advantage ever so little, seems
an upheaval of the universe.

