In another way geography has exercised a sinister influence on the fortunes of Ireland. Closely
approaching Scotland, the northern coast of Ireland in course of time invited Scotch immigration,
which formed as it were a Presbyterian Pale. If the antagonism between the English Episcopalian
and the Irish Catholic was strong, that between the Scotch Presbyterian and the Irish Catholic
was stronger. To the English Episcopalian the Irish Catholic was a barbarian and a Romanist;
to the Scotch Presbyterian he was a Canaanite and an idolater. Nothing in history is more hideous
than the conflict in the north of Ireland in the time of Charles I. This is the feud which
has been tenacious enough of its evil life to propagate itself even in the New World, and to
renew in the streets of Canadian cities the brutal and scandalous conflicts which disgrace
Belfast. On the other hand, through the Scotch colony, the larger island has a second hold
upon the smaller. Of all political projects a federal union of England and Ireland with separate
Parliaments under the same Crown seems the most hopeless, at least if government is to remain
parliamentary; it may be safely said that the normal relation between the two Parliaments would
be collision, and collision on a question of peace or war would be disruption. But an independent
Ireland might be a feasible as well as natural object of Irish aspiration if it were not for
the strength, moral as well as numerical, of the two intrusive elements. How could the Catholic
majority be restrained from legislation which the Protestant minority would deem oppressive?
And how could the Protestant minority, being as it is more English or Scotch than Irish, be
restrained from stretching its hands to England or Scotland for aid? It is true that if scepticism
continues to advance at its present rate, the lines of religious separation may be obliterated
or become too faint to exercise a great practical influence, and the bond of the soil may then
prevail. But the feeling against England which is the strength of Irish Nationalism is likely
to subside at the same time.

Speculation on unfulfilled contingencies is not invariably barren. It is interesting at all
events to consider what would have been the consequences to the people of the two islands,
and humanity generally, if a Saxon England and a Celtic Ireland had been allowed to grow up
and develop by the side of each other untouched by Norman conquest. In the case of Ireland
we should have been spared centuries of oppression which has profoundly reacted, as oppression
always does, on the character of the oppressor; and it is difficult to believe that the Isle
of Saints and of primitive Universities would not have produced some good fruits of its own.
In the Norman conquest of England historical optimism sees a great political and intellectual
blessing beneath the disguise of barbarous havoc and alien tyranny. The Conquest was the continuation
of the process of migratory invasions by which the nations of modern Europe were founded, from
restless ambition and cupidity, when it had ceased to be beneficent. It was not the superposition
of one primitive element of population on another, to the ultimate advantage, possibly, of
the compound; but the destruction of a nationality, the nationality of Alfred and Harold, of
Bede and AElfric. The French were superior in military organization; that they had superior
gifts of any kind, or that their promise was higher than that of the native English, it would
not be easy to prove. The language, we are told, is enriched by the intrusion of the French
element. If it was enriched it was shattered; and the result is a mixture so heterogeneous
as to be hardly available for the purposes of exact thought, while the language of science
is borrowed from the Greek, and as regards the unlearned mass of the people is hardly a medium
of thought at all. There are great calamity in history, though their effects may in time be
worked off, and they may be attended by some incidental good. Perhaps the greatest calamity
in history were the wars of Napoleon, in which some incidental good may nevertheless be found.

To the influences of geographical position, soil, and race is to be added, to complete the
account of the physical heritage, the influence of climate. But in the case of the British
Islands we must speak not of climate, but of climates, for within the compass of one small
realm are climates moist and comparatively dry, warm and cold, bracing and enervating, the
results of special influences the range of which is limited. Civilized man to a great extent
makes a climate for himself; his life in the North is spent mainly indoors, where artificial
heat replaces the sun. The idea which still haunts us, that formidable vigour and aptitude
for conquest are the appanage of Northern races, is a survival from the state in which the
rigour of nature selected and hardened the destined conquerors of the Roman Empire. The stoves
of St. Petersburg are as enervating as the sun of Naples, and in the struggle between the Northern
and Southern States of America not the least vigorous soldiers were those who came from Louisiana.
In the barbarous state the action of a Northern climate as a force of natural selection must
be tremendous. Of the races which peopled the British Islands the most important had already
undergone that action in their original abodes. They would, however, still feel the beneficent
influence of a climate on the whole eminently favourable to health and to activity; bracing,
yet not so rigorous as to kill those tender plants of humanity which often bear in them the
most precious germs of civilization, neither confining the inhabitant too much to the shelter
of his dwelling, nor, as the suns of the South are apt to do, drawing him too much from home.
The climate and the soil together formed a good school for the character of the young nation,
as they exacted the toil of the husbandman and rewarded it. Of the varieties of temperature
and weather within the island the national character still bears the impress, though in a degree
always decreasing as the assimilating agencies of civilization make their way. Irrespectively
of the influence of special employments, and perhaps even of peculiarity of race, mental vigour,
independence, and reasoning power are always ascribed to the people of the North. Variety,
in this as in other respects, would naturally produce a balance of tendencies in the nation
conductive to moderation and evenness of progress.

The islands are now the centre of an Empire which to some minds seems more important than the
islands themselves. An empire it is called, but the name is really applicable only to India.
The relation of England to her free colonies is not in the proper sense of the term imperial,
while her relation to such dependencies as Gibraltar and Malta is military alone. Colonization
is the natural and entirely beneficent result of general causes, obvious enough and already
mentioned, including that power of self-government, fostered by the circumstances of the colonizing
country, which made the character and destiny of New England so different from those of New France.

Equally natural was the choice of the situation for the original colonies on the shore of the
New World. The foundation of the Australian Colonies, on the other hand, was determined by
political accident, compensation for the loss of the American Colonies being sought on the
other side of the globe. It will perhaps be thought hereafter that the quarrel with New England
was calamitous in its consequences as well as in itself, since it led to the diversion of British
emigration from America, where it supplied, in a democracy of mixed but not uncongenial races,
the necessary element of guidance and control, to Australia, where, as there must be a limit
to its own multiplication, it may hereafter have to struggle for mastery with swarming multitudes
of Chinese, almost as incurable of incorporation with it as the negro. India and the other
conquered dependencies are the fruits of strength as a war power at sea combined with weakness
on land. Though not so generally noticed, the second of these two factors has not been less
operative than the first. Chatham attacked France in her distant dependencies when he had failed
to make any impression on her own coasts. Still more clearly was Chatham's son, the most incapable
of war ministers, driven to the capture of sugar islands by his inability to take part, otherwise
than by subsidies, in the decisive struggle on the Continental fields. This may deserve the
attention of those who do not think it criminal to examine the policy of Empire. Outlying pawns
picked up by a feeble chessplayer merely because he could not mate the king do not at first
sight necessarily commend themselves as invaluable possessions. Carthage and Venice were merely
great commercial cities, which, when they entered on a career of conquest, were compelled at
once to form armies of mercenaries, and to incur all the evil consequences by which the employment
of those vile and fatal instruments of ambition is attended. England being, not a commercial
city, but a nation, and a nation endowed with the highest military qualities, has escaped the
fell necessity except in the case of India; and India, under the reign of the Company, and
even for some time after its legal annexation to the Crown, was regarded and treated almost
as a realm in another planet, with an army, a political system, and a morality of its own.
But now it appears that the wrongs of the Hindoo are going to be avenged, as the wrongs of
the conquered have often been, by their moral effect upon the conqueror. A body of barbarian
mercenaries has appeared upon the European scene as an integral part of the British army, while
the reflex influence of Indian Empire upon the political character and tendencies of the imperial
nation is too manifest to be any longer overlooked. England now stands where the paths divide,
the one leading by industrial and commercial progress to increase of political liberty; the
other, by a career of conquest, to the political results in which such a career has never yet
failed to end. At present the influences in favour of taking the path of conquest seemed to
preponderate, [Footnote: Written in 1878.] and the probability seems to be that the leadership
of political progress, which has hitherto belonged to England and has constituted the special
interest of her history, will, in the near future, pass into other hands.

THE GREAT DUEL OF THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY

[Footnote: In this lecture free use has been made of recent writers-- Mitchell, Chapman, Vehse,
Freytag and Ranke, as well as of the older authorities. To Chapman's excellent Life of Gustavus
Adolphus we are under special obligations. In some passages it has been closely followed. Colonel
Mitchell has also supplied some remarks and touches, such as are to be found only in a military
writer.]

AN EPISODE OF THE THIRTY YEARS' WAR.

The Thirty Years' War is an old story, but its interest has been recently revived. The conflict
between Austria and German Independence commenced in the struggle of the Protestant Princes
against Charles V., and, continued on those battle-fields, was renewed and decided at Sadowa.
At Sadowa Germany was fighting for unity as well as for independence. But in the Thirty Years'
War it was Austria that with her Croats, the Jesuits who inspired her councils, and her Spanish
allies, sought to impose a unity of death, against which Protestant Germany struggled, preserving
herself for a unity of life which, opened by the victories of Frederick the Great, and, more
nobly promoted by the great uprising of the nation against the tyranny of Napoleon, was finally
accomplished at Sadowa, and ratified against French jealousy at Sedan. Costly has been the
achievement; lavish has been the expenditure of German blood, severe the sufferings of the
German people. It is the lot of all who aspire high--no man or nation ever was dandled into
greatness.

The Thirty Years' War was a real world-contest. Austria and Spain drew after them all the powers
of reaction; all the powers of liberty and progress were arrayed on the other side. The half-barbarous
races that lay between civilized Europe and Turkey mingled in the conflict: Turkey herself
was drawn diplomatically into the vortex. In the mines of Mexico and Peru the Indian toiled
to furnish both the Austrian and Spanish hosts. The Treaty of Westphalia, which concluded the
struggle, long remained the Public Law of Europe.

Half religious, half political, in its character, this war stands midway between the religious
wars of the sixteenth century, and the political wars of the eighteenth. France took the political
view; and, while she crushed her own Huguenots at home, supported the German Protestants against
the House of Austria. Even the Pope, Urban VIII., more politician than churchman, more careful
of Peter's patrimony than of Peter's creed, went with France to the Protestant side. With the
princes, as usual, political motives were the strongest, with the people religious motives.
The politics were to a sad extent those of Machiavelli and the Jesuit; but above the meaner
characters who crowd the scene rise at least two grand forms.

In a military point of view, the Thirty Years' War will bear no comparison with that which
has just run its marvellous course. The armies were small, seldom exceeding thirty thousand.
Tilly thought forty thousand the largest number which a general could handle, while Von Moltke
has handled half a million. There was no regular commissariat, there were no railroads, there
were no good roads, there were no accurate maps, there was no trained staff. The general had
to be everything and to do everything himself. The financial resources of the powers were small:
their regular revenues soon failed; and they had to fly for loans to great banking houses,
such as that of the Fuggers at Augsburgh, so that the money power became the arbiter even of
Imperial elections. The country on which the armies lived was soon eaten up by their rapine.
Hence the feebleness of the operations, the absence of anything which Von Moltke would call
strategy: and hence again the cruel length of the war, a whole generation of German agony.

But if the war was weak, not so were the warriors. On the Imperial side especially, they were
types of a class of men, the most terrible perhaps, as well as the vilest, who ever plied the
soldier's trade: of those mercenary bands, soldados, in the literal and original sense of the
term, free companions, condottieri, lansquenets, who came between the feudal militia and the
standing armies of modern times. In the wars of Italy and the Low Countries, under Alva and
Parma and Freundsberg, these men had opened new abysses of cruelty and lust in human nature.
They were the lineal representatives of the Great Companies which ravaged France in the time
of Edward III. They were near of kin to the buccaneers, and Scott's Bertram Risingham is the
portrait of a lansquenet as well as of a rover of the Spanish Main. Many of them were Croats,
a race well known through all history in the ranks of Austrian tyranny, and Walloons, a name
synonymous with that of hired butcher and marauder.

But with Croats and Walloons were mingled Germans, Spaniards, Italians, Englishmen, Scotchmen,
Irishmen, outcasts of every land, bearing the devil's stamp on faces of every complexion, blaspheming
in all European and some non-European tongues. Their only country was the camp; their cause
booty; their king the bandit general who contracted for their blood. Of attachment to religious
principle they had usually just enough to make them prefer murdering and plundering in the
name of the Virgin to murdering and plundering in the name of the Gospel, but outcasts of all
nominal creeds were found together in their camps. Even the dignity of hatred was wanting to
their conflicts, for they changed sides without scruple, and the comrade of yesterday was the
foeman of to-day, and again the comrade of the morrow. The only moral salt which kept the carcass
of their villainy from rotting was a military code of honour, embodying the freemasonry of
the soldier's trade and having as one of its articles the duel with all the forms--an improvement
at any rate upon assassination. A stronger contrast there cannot be than that between these
men and the citizen soldiers whom Germany the other day sent forth to defend their country
and their hearths. The soldier had a language of his own, polyglot as the elements of the band,
and garnished with unearthly oaths: and the void left by religion in his soul was filled with
wild superstitions, bullet charming and spells against bullets, the natural reflection in dark
hearts of the blind chance which since the introduction of firearms seemed to decide the soldier's
fate. Having no home but the camp, he carried with him his family, a she wolf and her cubs,
cruel and marauding as himself; and the numbers and unwieldiness of every army were doubled
by a train of waggons full of women and children sitting on heaps of booty. It was not, we
may guess, as ministering angels that these women went among the wounded after a battle. The
chiefs made vast fortunes. Common soldiers sometimes drew a great prize; left the standard
for a time and lived like princes; but the fiend's gold soon found its way back to the giver
through the Jews who prowled in the wake of war, or at the gambling table which was the central
object in every camp. When fortune smiled, when pay was good, when a rich city had been stormed,
the soldier's life was in its way a merry one; his camp was full of roystering revelry; he,
his lady and his charger glittered with not over-tasteful finery, the lady sometimes with finery
stripped from the altars. Then, glass in hand he might joyously cry, "The sharp sword is my
farm and plundering is my plough; earth is my bed, the sky my covering, this cloak is my house,
this wine my paradise;" or chant the doggerel stave which said that "when a soldier was born
three boors were given him, one to find him food, another to find him a comely lass, a third
to go to perdition in his stead." But when the country had been eaten up, when the burghers
held the city stoutly, when the money-kings refused to advance the war kings any more gold,
the soldier shared the miseries which he inflicted, and, unless he was of iron, sank under
his hardships, unpitied by his stronger comrades; for the rule of that world was woe to the
weak. Terrible then were the mutinies. Fearful was the position of the commander. We cannot
altogether resist the romance which attaches to the life of these men, many a one among whom
could have told a tale as wild as that with which Othello, the hero of their tribe, won his
Desdemona, in whose love he finds the countercharm of his wandering life. But what sort of
war such a soldiery made, may be easily imagined. Its treatment of the people and the country
wherever it marched, as minutely described by trustworthy witnesses, was literally fiendish.
Germany did not recover the effects for two hundred years.

A century had passed since the first preaching of Luther. Jesuitism, working from its great
seminary at Ingoldstadt, and backed by Austria, had won back many, especially among the princes
and nobility, to the Church of Rome; but in the main the Germans, like the other Teutons, were
still Protestant even in the hereditary domains of the House of Austria. The rival religions
stood facing each other within the nominal unity of the Empire, in a state of uneasy truce
and compromise, questions about ecclesiastical domains and religious privileges still open;
formularies styled of concord proving formularies of discord; no mediating authority being
able to make church authority and liberty of private judgment, Reaction and Progress, the Spirit
of the Past and the Spirit of the Future lie down in real peace together. The Protestants had
formed an Evangelical Union, their opponents a Catholic League, of which Maximilian, Elector
of Bavaria, a pupil of the Jesuits, was chief. The Protestants were ill prepared for the struggle.
There was fatal division between the Lutherans and the Calvinists, Luther himself having said
in his haste that he hated a Calvinist more than a Papist. The great Protestant princes were
lukewarm and weak-kneed: like the Tudor nobility of England, they clung much more firmly to
the lands which they had taken from the Catholics than to the faith in the name of which the
lands were taken; and as powers of order, naturally alarmed by the disorders which attended
the great religious revolution, they were politically inclined to the Imperial side. The lesser
nobility and gentry, staunch Protestants for the most part, had shown no capacity for vigorous
and united action since their premature attempt under Arnold Von Sickingen. On the peasantry,
also staunch Protestants, still weighed the reaction produced by the Peasants' war and the
excesses of the Anabaptists. In the free cities there was a strong burgher element ready to
fight for Protestantism and liberty; but even in the free cities wealth was Conservative, and
to the Rothschilds of the day the cause which offered high interest and good security was the
cause of Heaven.

The smouldering fire burst into a flame in Bohemia, a kingdom of the House of Austria, and
a member of the Empire, but peopled by hot, impulsive Sclavs, jealous of their nationality,
as well as of their Protestant faith--Bohemia, whither the spark of Wycliffism had passed along
the electric chain of common universities by which mediaeval Christendom was bound, and where
it had kindled first the martyr fire of John Huss and Jerome of Prague, then the fiercer conflagration
of the Hussite war. In that romantic city by the Moldau, with its strange, half Oriental beauty,
where Jesuitism now reigns supreme, and St. John Nepemuch is the popular divinity, Protestantism
and Jesuitism then lay in jealous neighbourhood, Protestantism supported by the native nobility,
from anarchical propensity as well as from religious conviction; Jesuitism patronized and furtively
aided by the intrusive Austrian power. From the Emperor Rudolph II., the Protestants had obtained
a charter of religious liberties. But Rudolph's successor, Ferdinand II., was the Philip II.
of Germany in bigotry, though not in cruelty. In his youth, after a pilgrimage to Loretto,
he had vowed at the feet of the Pope to restore Catholicism at the hazard of his life. He was
a pupil of the Jesuits, almost worshipped priests, was passionately devoted to the ceremonies
of his religion, delighting even in the functions of an acolyte, and, as he said, preferred
a desert to an empire full of heretics. He had, moreover, before his accession to the throne,
come into collision with Protestantism where it was triumphant, and had found in its violence
too good an excuse for his bigotry. It was inevitable that as King of Bohemia he should attempt
to narrow the Protestant liberties. The hot Czech blood took fire, the fierceness of political
turbulence mingled with that of religious zeal, and at a council held at Prague, in the old
palace of the Bohemian kings, Martiniz and Slavata, the most hated of Ferdinand's creatures,
were thrown out of a window in what was called good Bohemian fashion, and only by a marvellous
accident escaped with their lives. The first blow was struck, the signal was given for thirty
years of havoc. Insurrection flamed up in Bohemia. At the head of the insurgents, Count Thurn
rushed on Vienna. The Emperor was saved only by a miracle, as Jesuitism averred,--as Rationalism
says, by the arrival of Dampierre's Imperial horse. He suffered a fright which must have made
him more than ever prefer a desert to an empire full of heretics. By a vote of the States of
Bohemia the crown was taken from Ferdinand and offered to Frederic, Elector Palatine. Frederic
was married to the bright and fascinating Princess Elizabeth of England, the darling of Protestant
hearts; other qualifications for that crown of peril he had none. But in an evil hour he accepted
the offer. Soon his unfitness appeared. A foreigner, he could not rein the restive and hard
mouthed Czech nobility, a Calvinist and a pupil of the Huguenots, he unwisely let loose Calvinist
iconoclasm among a people who clung to their ancient images though they had renounced their
ancient faith. Supinely he allowed Austria and the Catholic League to raise their Croats and
Walloons with the ready aid, so valuable in that age of unready finance, of Spanish gold. Supinely
he saw the storm gather and roll towards him. Supinely he lingered in his palace, while on
the White Hill, a name fatal in Protestant annals, his army, filled with his own discouragement,
was broken by the combined forces of the Empire, under Bucquoi, and of the Catholic League,
under Count Tilly. Still there was hope in resistance, yet Frederic fled. He was in great danger,
say his apologists. It was to face a great danger, and show others how to face it, that he
had come there. Let a man, before he takes the crown of Bohemia, look well into his own heart.
Then followed a scaffold scene like that of Egmont and Horn, but on a larger scale. Ferdinand,
it seems, hesitated to shed blood, but his confessor quelled his scruples. Before the City
Hall of Prague, and near the Thein Church, bearing the Hussite emblems of the chalice and sword,
amidst stern military pomp, the Emperor presiding in the person of his High Commissioner, twenty-
four victims of high rank were led forth to death. Just as the executions commenced a bright
rainbow spanned the sky. To the victims it seemed an assurance of Heaven's mercy. To the more
far-reaching eye of history it may seem to have been an assurance that, dark as the sky then
was, the flood of Reaction should no more cover the earth. But dark the sky was: the counter-reformation
rode on the wings of victory, and with ruthless cruelty, through Bohemia, through Moravia,
through Austria Proper, which had shown sympathy with the Bohemian revolt. The lands of the
Protestant nobility were confiscated, the nobility itself crushed; in its place was erected
a new nobility of courtiers, foreigners, military adventurers devoted to the Empire and to
Catholicism, the seed of the Metternichs.

For ten years the tide ran steadily against Protestantism and German Independence. The Protestants
were without cohesion, without powerful chiefs. Count Mansfeldt was a brilliant soldier, with
a strong dash of the robber. Christian of Brunswick was a brave knight errant, fighting, as
his motto had it, for God and for Elizabeth of Bohemia. But neither of them had any great or
stable force at his back, and if a ray of victory shone for a moment on their standards, it
was soon lost in gloom. In Frederick, ex-king of Bohemia, was no help; and his charming queen
could only win for him hearts like that of Christian of Brunswick. The great Protestant Princes
of the North, Saxony and Brandenburgh, twin pillars of the cause that should have been, were
not only lukewarm, timorous, superstitiously afraid of taking part against the Emperor, but
they were sybarites, or rather sots, to whose gross hearts no noble thought could find its
way. Their inaction was almost justified by the conduct of the Protestant chiefs, whose councils
were full of folly and selfishness, whose policy seemed mere anarchy, and who too often made
war like buccaneers. The Evangelical Union, in which Lutheranism and political quietism prevailed,
refused its aid to the Calvinist and usurping King of Bohemia. Among foreign powers, England
was divided in will, the nation being enthusiastically for Protestantism and Elizabeth of Bohemia,
while the Court leant to the side of order and hankered after the Spanish marriage. France
was not divided in will: her single will was that of Richelieu, who, to weaken Austria, fanned
the flame of civil war in Germany, as he did in England, but lent no decisive aid. Bethlem
Gabor, the Evangelical Prince of Transylvania, led semi- barbarous hosts, useful as auxiliaries,
but incapable of bearing the main brunt of the struggle; and he was trammelled by his allegiance
to his suzerain, the Sultan. The Catholic League was served by a first-rate general in the
person of Tilly; the Empire by a first-rate general and first-rate statesman in the person
of Wallenstein. The Palatinate was conquered, and the Electorate was transferred by Imperial
fiat to Maximilian of Bavaria, the head of the Catholic League, whereby a majority was given
to the Catholics in the hitherto equally-divided College of Electors. An Imperial Edict of
Restitution went forth, restoring to Catholicism all that it had lost by conversion within
the last seventy years. Over all Germany, Jesuits and Capuchins swarmed with the mandates of
reaction in their hands. The King of Denmark tardily took up arms only to be overthrown by
Tilly at Lutter, and again at Wolgast by Wallenstein. The Catholic and Imperial armies were
on the northern seas. Wallenstein, made Admiral of the Empire, was preparing a basis of maritime
operations against the Protestant kingdoms of Scandinavia, against the last asylum of Protestantism
and Liberty in Holland. Germany, with all its intellect and all its hopes, was on the point
of becoming a second Spain. Teutonism was all but enslaved to the Croat. The double star of
the House of Austria seemed with baleful aspect to dominate in the sky, and to threaten with
extinction European liberty and progress. One bright spot alone remained amidst the gloom.
By the side of the brave burghers who beat back the Prince of Parma from the cities of Holland,
a place must be made in history for the brave burghers who beat back Wallenstein from Stralsund,
after he had sworn, in his grand, impious way, that he would take it though it were bound by
a chain to Heaven. The eyes of all Protestants were turned, says Richelieu, like those of sailors,
towards the North. And from the North a deliverer came. On Midsummer day, 1630, a bright day
in the annals of Protestantism, of Germany, and, as Protestants and Germans must believe, of
human liberty and progress, Gustavus Adolphus, King of Sweden, landed at Penemunde, on the
Pomeranian coast, and knelt down on the shore to give thanks to God for his safe passage; then
showed at once his knowledge of the art of war and of the soldier's heart, by himself taking
spade in hand, and commencing the entrenchment of his camp. Gustavus was the grandson of that
Gustavus Vasa who had broken at once the bonds of Denmark and of Rome, and had made Sweden
independent and Lutheran. He was the son of that Charles Vasa who had defeated the counter-reformation.
Devoted from his childhood to the Protestant cause, hardily trained in a country where even
the palace was the abode of thrift and self-denial, his mind enlarged by a liberal education,
in regard for which, amidst her poverty, as in general character and habits of her people,
his Sweden greatly resembled Scotland; his imagination stimulated by the wild scenery, the
dark forests, the starry nights of Scandinavia; gifted by nature both in mind and body; the
young king had already shown himself a hero. He had waged grim war with the powers of the icy
north; he bore several scars, proofs of a valour only too great for the vast interests which
depended on his life; he had been a successful innovator in tactics, or rather a successful
restorer of the military science of the Romans. But the best of his military innovations were
discipline and religion. His discipline redeemed the war from savagery, and made it again,
so far as war, and war in that iron age could be, a school of humanity and self-control. In
religion he was himself not an ascetic saint, there is one light passage at least in his early
life: and at Augsburg they show a ruff plucked from his neck by a fair Augsburger at the crisis
of a very brisk flirtation. But he was devout, and he inspired his army with his devotion.
The traveller is still struck with the prayer and hymn which open and close the march of the
soldiers of Gustavus. Schools for the soldiers' children were held in his camp. It is true
that the besetting sin of the Swedes, and of all dwellers in cold countries, is disclosed by
the article in his military code directed against the drunkenness of army chaplains.

Sir Thomas Roe, the most sagacious of the English diplomatists of that age, wrote of Gustavus
to James I.--"The king hath solemnly protested that he will not depose arms till he hath spoken
one word for your majesty in Germany (that was his own phrase), and glory will contend with
policy in his resolution; for he hath unlimited thoughts, and is the likeliest instrument for
God to work by in Europe. We have often observed great alterations to follow great spirits,
as if they were fitted for the times. Certainly, ambit fortunam Caesaris: he thinks the ship
cannot sink that carries him, and doth thus oblige prosperity."

Gustavus justified his landing in Germany by a manifesto setting forth hostile acts of the
Emperor against him in Poland. No doubt there was a technical casus belli. But, morally, the
landing of Gustavus was a glorious breach of the principle of non-intervention. He came to
save the world. He was not the less a fit instrument for God to work by because it was likely
that he would rule the world when he had saved it.

"A snow king!" tittered the courtiers of Vienna, "he will soon melt away." He soon began to
prove to them, both in war and diplomacy, that his melting would be slow. Richelieu at last
ventured on a treaty of alliance. Charles I., now on the throne of England, and angry at having
been jilted by Spain, also entered into a treaty, and sent British auxiliaries, who, though
soon reduced in numbers by sickness, always formed a substantial part of the armies of Gustavus,
and in battle and storm earned their full share of the honour of his campaigns. Many British
volunteers had already joined the standard of Mansfeldt and other Protestant chiefs; and if
some of these men were mere soldiers of the Dugald Dalghetty type, some were the Garibaldians
of their day, and brought back at once enthusiasm and military skill from German battlefields
to Marston and Naseby. Diplomacy, aided by a little gentle pressure, drew Saxony and Brandenburgh
to the better cause, now that the better cause was so strong. But while they dallied and haggled
one more great disaster was added to the sum of Protestant calamity. Magdeburgh, the queen
of Protestant cities, the citadel of North German liberty, fell--fell with Gustavus and rescue
near--and nameless atrocities were perpetrated by the ferocious bands of the Empire on innocents
of all ages and both sexes, whose cry goes up against bloodthirsty fanaticism for ever. A shriek
of horror rang through the Protestant world, not without reproaches against Gustavus, who cleared
himself by words, and was soon to clear himself better by deeds.

Count Tilly was now in sole command on the Catholic and Imperial side. Wallenstein had been
dismissed. A military Richelieu, an absolutist in politics, an indifferentist in religion,
caring at least for the religious quarrel only as it affected the political question, he aimed
at crushing the independence of all the princes, Catholic as well as Protestant, and making
the Emperor, or rather Wallenstein in the name of the Imperial devotee, as much master of Germany
as the Spanish king was of Spain. But the disclosure of this policy, and the towering pride
of its author had alarmed the Catholic princes, and produced a reaction similar to that caused
by the absolutist encroachments of Charles V. Aided by the Jesuits, who marked in Wallenstein
a statesman whose policy was independent of theirs, and who, if not a traitor to the faith,
was at least a bad persecutor, Maximilian and his confederates forced the Emperor to remove
Wallenstein from command. The great man received the bearers of the mandate with stately courtesy,
with princely hospitality, showed them that he had read in the stars the predominance of Maximilian
over Ferdinand, slightly glanced at the Emperor's weakness, then withdrew to that palace at
Prague, so like its mysterious lord, so regal and so fantastic in its splendour, yet so gloomy,
so jealously guarded, so full of the spirit of dark ambition, so haunted by the shadow of the
dagger. There he lay, watching the storm that gathered in the North, scanning the stars and
waiting for his hour.

When the Swedes and Saxons, under Gustavus and the Elector of Saxony, drew near to the Imperial
army under Tilly, in the neighbourhood of Leipsic, there was a crisis, a thrill of worldwide
expectation, as when the Armada approached the shores of England; as when the allies met the
forces of Louis XIV. at Blenheim, as when, on those same plains of Leipsic, the uprisen nations
advanced to battle against Napoleon. Count Tilly's military genius fell short only of the highest.
His figure was one which showed that war had become a science, and that the days of the Paladins
were past. He was a little old man, with a broad wrinkled forehead, hollow cheeks, a long nose
and projecting chin, grotesquely attired in a slashed doublet of green satin, with a peaked
hat and a long red feather hanging down behind. His charger was a grey pony, his only weapon
a pistol, which it was his delight to say he had never fired in the thirty pitched fields which
he had fought and won. He was a Walloon by birth, a pupil of the Jesuits, a sincere devotee,
and could boast that he had never yielded to the allurements of wine or women, as well as that
he had never lost a battle. His name was now one of horror, for he was the captor of Magdeburg,
and if he had not commanded the massacre, or, as it was said, jested at it, he could not be
acquitted of cruel connivance. That it was the death of his honour to survive the butchery
which he ought to have died, if necessary, in resisting sword in hand, is a soldier's judgment
on his case. At his side was Pappenheim, another pupil of the Jesuits, the Dundee of the thirty
years' war, with all the devotion, all the loyalty, all the ferocity of the Cavalier, the most
fiery and brilliant of cavalry officers, the leader of the storming column at Magdeburg.

In those armies the heavy cavalry was the principal arm. The musket was an unwieldy matchlock
fired from a rest, and without a bayonet, so that in the infantry regiments it was necessary
to combine pikemen with the musketeers. Cannon there were of all calibres and with a whole
vocabulary of fantastic names, but none capable of advancing and manoeuvring with troops in
battle. The Imperial troops were formed in heavy masses. Gustavus, taking his lesson from the
Roman legion, had introduced a more open order--he had lightened the musket, dispensed with
the rest, given the musketeer a cartridge box instead of the flapping bandoleer. He had trained
his cavalry, instead of firing their carbines and wheeling, to charge home with the sword.
He had created a real field artillery of imperfect structure, but which told on the Imperial
masses.

The harvest had been reaped, and a strong wind blew clouds of dust over the bare autumn fields,
when Count Tilly formed the victorious veterans of the Empire, in what was called Spanish order--infantry
in the centre, cavalry on the flanks--upon a rising ground overlooking the broad plain of Breitenfeldt.
On him marched the allies in two columns--Gustavus with the Swedes upon the right, the Elector
with his Saxons on the left. As they passed a brook in front of the Imperial position, Pappenheim
dashed upon them with his cavalry, but was driven back, and the two columns deployed upon the
plain. The night before the battle Gustavus had dreamt that he was wrestling with Tilly, and
that Tilly bit him in the left arm, but that he overpowered Tilly with his right arm. That
dream came through the Gate of Horn, for the Saxons who formed the left wing were raw troops,
but victory was sure to the Swede. Soldiers of the old school proudly compare the shock of
charging armies at Leipsic with modern battles, which they call battles of skirmishers with
armies in reserve. However this may be, all that day the plain of Breitenfeldt was filled with
the fierce eddies of a hand-to-hand struggle between mail- clad masses, their cuirasses and
helmets gleaming fitfully amidst the clouds of smoke and dust, the mortal shock of the charge
and the deadly ring of steel striking the ear with a distinctness impossible in modern battle.
Tilly with his right soon shattered the Saxons, but his centre and left were shattered by the
unconquerable Swede. The day was won by the genius of the Swedish king, by the steadiness with
which his troops manoeuvred, and the promptness with which they formed a new front when the
defeat of the Saxons exposed their left, by the rapidity of their fire and by the vigour with
which their cavalry charged. The victory was complete. At sunset four veteran Walloon regiments
made a last stand for the honour of the Empire, and with difficulty bore off their redoubtable
commander from his first lost field. Through all Protestant Europe flew the tidings of a great
deliverance and the name of a great deliverer.

On to Vienna cried hope and daring then. On to Vienna; history still regretfully repeats the
cry. Gustavus judged otherwise--and whatever his reason was we may be sure it was not weak.
Not to the Danube therefore but to the Main and Rhine the tide of conquest rolled. The Thuringian
forest gleams with fires that guide the night march of the Swede. Frankfort the city of empire
opens her gates to him who will soon come as the hearts of all men divine not as a conqueror
in the iron garb of war but as the elect of Germany to put on the imperial crown. In the cellars
of the Prince Bishop of Bamberg and Wurtzburg the rich wine is broached for heretic lips. Protestantism
everywhere uplifts its head, the Archbishop of Mainz, chief of the Catholic persecutors becomes
a fugitive in his turn. Jesuit and Capuchin must cower or fly. All fortresses are opened by
the arms of Gustavus, all hearts are opened by his gracious manner, his winning words, his
sunny smile. To the people accustomed to a war of massacre and persecution he came as from
a better world a spirit of humanity and toleration. His toleration was politic no doubt but
it was also sincere. So novel was it that a monk finding himself not butchered or tortured
thought the king's faith must be weak and attempted his conversion. His zeal was repaid with
a gracious smile. Once more on the Lech Tilly crossed the path of the thunderbolt. Dishonoured
at Magdeburg, defeated at Leipsic, the old man seems to have been weary of life, his leg shattered
by a cannon hall he was borne dying from the field and left the Imperial cause headless as
well as beaten. Gustavus is in Augsburgh, the queen of German commerce, the city of the Fuggers
with their splendid and romantic money kingdom, the city of the Confession. He is in Munich,
the capital of Maximilian and the Catholic League. His allies the Saxons are in Prague. A few
marches more and he will dictate peace at Vienna with all Germany at his back. A few marches
more the Germans will be a Protestant nation under a Protestant chief and many a dark page
will be torn from the book of fate.

Ferdinand and Maximilian had sought counsel of the dying Tilly. Tilly had given them counsel
bitter but inevitable. Dissembling their hate and fear they called like trembling necromancers
when they invoke the fiend upon the name of power. The name of Wallenstein gave new life to
the Imperial cause under the very ribs of death. At once he stood between the Empire and destruction
with an army of 50,000 men, conjured, as it were, out of the earth by the spell of his influence
alone. All whose trade was war came at the call of the grand master of their trade. The secret
of Wallenstein's ambition is buried in his grave, but the man himself was the prince of adventurers,
the ideal chief of mercenary bands, the arch contractor for the hireling's blood. His character
was formed in a vast political gambling house, a world given up to pillage and the strong hand,
an Eldorado of confiscations. Of the lofty dreamer portrayed in the noble dramatic poem of
Schiller, there is little trace in the intensely practical character of the man. A scion of
a good Bohemian house, poor himself, but married to a rich wife, whose wealth was the first
step in the ladder of his marvellous fortunes, Wallenstein had amassed immense domains by the
purchase of confiscated estates, a traffic redeemed from meanness only by the vastness of the
scale on which he practised it, and the loftiness of the aim which he had in view. Then he
took to raising and commanding mercenary troops, improving on his predecessors in that trade
by doubling the size of his army, on the theory, coolly avowed by him, that a large army would
subsist by its command of the country, where a small army would starve. But all was subservient
to his towering ambition, and to a pride which has been called theatrical, and which often
wore an eccentric garb, but which his death scene proves to have been the native grand infirmity
of the man. He walked in dark ways and was unscrupulous and ruthless when on the path of his
ambition; but none can doubt the self sustaining force of his lonely intellect, his power of
command, the spell which his character cast over the fierce and restless spirits of his age.
Prince- Duke of Friedland, Mecklenburgh, and Sagan, Generalissimo of the armies of the House
of Austria,--to this height had the landless and obscure adventurer risen, in envy's despite,
as his motto proudly said, not by the arts of a courtier or a demagogue, but by strength of
brain and heart, in a contest with rivals whose brains and hearts were strong. Highest he stood
among the uncrowned heads of Europe, and dreaded by the crowned. We wonder how the boisterous
soldiers can have loved a chief who was so far from being a comrade, a being so disdainful
and reserved, who at the sumptuous table kept by his officers never appeared, never joined
in the revelry, even in the camp lived alone, punished intrusion on his haughty privacy as
a crime. But his name was victory and plunder; he was lavishly munificent, as one who knew
that those who play a deep game must lay down heavy stakes, his eye was quick to discern, his
hand prompt to reward the merit of the buccaneer; and those who followed his soaring fortunes
knew that they would share them. If he was prompt to reward, he was also stern in punishment,
and a certain arbitrariness both in reward and punishment made the soldier feel that the commander's
will was law. If Wallenstein was not the boon companion of the mercenaries, he was their divinity,
and he was himself essentially one of them--even his superstition was theirs, and filled the
same void of faith in his as in their hearts; though, while the common soldier raised the fiend
to charm bullets, or bought spells and amulets of a quack at Nuremburg or Augsburg, Seni, the
first astrologer of the age, explored the sympathizing stars for the august destiny of the
Duke of Friedland. Like Uriel and Satan in Paradise Lost, Gustavus and Wallenstein stood opposed
to each other. On one side was the enthusiast, on the other the mighty gamester, playing the
great game of his life without emotion, by intensity of thought alone. On one side was the
crusader, on the other the indifferentist, without faith except in his star. On the one side
was as much good, perhaps, as has ever appeared in the form of a conqueror, on the other side
the majesty of evil. Gustavus was young, his frame was vigorous and active, though inclined
to corpulence, his complexion fair, his hair golden, his eye blue and merry, his countenance
frank as day, and the image of a heart which had felt the kindest influences of love and friendship.
Wallenstein was past his prime, his frame was tall, spare, somewhat bowed by pain, his complexion
dark, his eye black and piercing, his look that of a man who trod slippery paths with deadly
rivals at his side, and of whose many letters not one is to a friend. But, opposites in all
else, the two champions were well matched in power. Perhaps there is hardly such another duel
in history. Such another there would have been if Strafford had lived to encounter Cromwell.

The market for the great adventurer's services having risen so high, the price which he asked
was large--a principality in hand, a province to be conquered, supreme command of the army
which he had raised. The court suggested that if the emperor's son, the King of Hungary, were
put over Wallenstein's head, his name would be a tower of strength, but Wallenstein answered
with a blasphemous frankness which must have made the ears of courtiers tingle. He would be
emperor of the army; he would be emperor in the matter of confiscations. The last article shows
how he won the soldier's heart. Perhaps in framing his terms, he gave something to his wounded
pride. If he did, the luxury cost him dear, for here he trod upon the serpent that stung his life.

The career of Gustavus was at once arrested, and he took shelter against the storm in an entrenched
camp protected by three hundred cannon under the walls of Nuremberg--Nuremberg the eldest daughter
of the German Reformation, the Florence of Germany in art, wealth and freedom, then the beautiful
home of early commerce, now its romantic tomb. The desolation of her grass-grown streets dates
from that terrible day. The Swedish lines were scarcely completed when Wallenstein appeared
with all his power, and sweeping past, entrenched himself four miles from his enemy in a position
the key of which were the wooded hill and old castle of the Altenberg. Those who chance to
visit that spot may fancy there Wallenstein's camp as it is in Schiller, ringing with the boisterous
revelry of its wild and motley bands. And they may fancy the sudden silence, the awe of men
who knew no other awe, as in his well-known dress, the laced buff coat with crimson scarf,
and the grey hat with crimson plume, Wallenstein rode by. Week after week and month after month
these two heavy clouds of war hung close together, and Europe looked for the bursting of the
storm. But famine was to do Wallenstein's work; and by famine and the pestilence, bred by the
horrible state of the camp, at last his work was done. The utmost limit of deadly inaction
for the Swedes arrived. Discipline and honour gave way, and could scarcely be restored by the
passionate eloquence of Gustavus. Oxenstiern brought large reinforcements; and on the 24th
August Wallenstein saw-- with grim pleasure he must have seen--Gustavus advancing to attack
him in his lines. By five hundred at a time--there was room for no more in the narrow path
of death--the Swedes scaled the flashing and thundering Altenberg. They scaled it again and
again through a long summer's day. Once it was all but won. But at evening the Nurembergers
saw their hero and protector retiring, for the first time defeated, from the field. Yet Gustavus
had not lost the confidence of his soldiers. He had shared their danger and had spared their
blood. In ten hours' hard fighting he had lost only 2,000 men. But Wallenstein might well shower
upon his wounded soldiers the only balm for the wounds of men fighting without a country or
a cause. He might well write to the emperor: "The King of Sweden has blunted his horns a good
deal. Henceforth the title of Invincible belongs not to him, but to your Majesty." No doubt
Ferdinand thought it did.

Gustavus now broke up and marched on Bavaria, abandoning the great Protestant city, with the
memory of Magdeburg in his heart. But Nuremberg was not to share the fate of Magdeburg. The
Imperial army was not in a condition to form the siege. It had suffered as much as that of
Gustavus. That such troops should have been held together in such extremity proves their general's
power of command. Wallenstein soon gladdened the eyes of the Nurembergers by firing his camp,
and declining to follow the lure into Bavaria, marched on Saxony, joined another Imperial army
under Pappenheim and took Leipsic.

To save Saxony Gustavus left Bavaria half conquered. As he hurried to the rescue, the people
on his line of march knelt to kiss the hem of his garment, the sheath of his delivering sword,
and could scarcely be prevented from adoring him as a god. His religious spirit was filled
with a presentiment that the idol in which they trusted would be soon laid low. On the 14th
of November he was leaving a strongly entrenched camp, at Naumberg, where the Imperialists
fancied, the season being so far advanced, he intended to remain, when news reached his ear
like the sight which struck Wellington's eye as it ranged over Marmont's army on the morning
of Salamanca. [Footnote: We owe the parallel, we believe, to an article by Lord Ellesmere,
in the Quarterly Review.] The impetuous Pappenheim, ever anxious for separate command, had
persuaded an Imperial council of war to detach him with a large force against Halle. The rest
of the Imperialists, under Wallenstein, were quartered in the villages around Lutzen, close
within the king's reach, and unaware of his approach. "The Lord," cried Gustavus, "has delivered
him into my hand," and at once he swooped upon his prey.

"Break up and march with every man and gun. The enemy is advancing hither. He is already at
the pass by the hollow road." So wrote Wallenstein to Pappenheim. The letter is still preserved,
stained with Pappenheim's life-blood. But, in that mortal race, Pappenheim stood no chance.
Halle was a long day's march off, and the troopers, whom Pappenheim could lead gallantly, but
could not control, after taking the town had dispersed to plunder. Yet the Swede's great opportunity
was lost. Lutzen, though in sight, proved not so near as flattering guides and eager eyes had
made it. The deep-banked Rippach, its bridge all too narrow for the impetuous columns, the
roads heavy from rain, delayed the march. A skirmish with some Imperial cavalry under Isolani
wasted minutes when minutes were years; and the short November day was at an end when the Swede
reached the plain of Lutzen.

No military advantage marks the spot where the storm overtook the Duke of Friedland. He was
caught like a traveller in a tempest off a shelterless plain, and had nothing for it but to
bide the brunt. What could be done with ditches, two windmills, a mud wall, a small canal,
he did, moving from point to point during the long night; and before morning all his troops,
except Pappenheim's division, had come in and were in line.

When the morning broke a heavy fog lay on the ground. Historians have not failed to remark
that there is a sympathy in things, and that the day was loath to dawn which was to be the
last day of Gustavus. But if Nature sympathized with Gustavus, she chose a bad mode of showing
her sympathy, for while the fog prevented the Swedes from advancing, part of Pappenheim's corps
arrived. After prayers, the king and all his army sang Luther's hymn, "Our God is a strong
tower"--the Marseillaise of the militant Reformation. Then Gustavus mounted his horse, and
addressed the different divisions, adjuring them by their victorious name, by the memory of
the Breitenfeld, by the great cause whose issue hung upon their swords, to fight well for that
cause, for their country and their God. His heart was uplifted at Lutzen, with that Hebrew
fervour which uplifted the heart of Cromwell at Dunbar. Old wounds made it irksome to him to
wear a cuirass. "God," he said, "shall be my armour this day".

Wallenstein has been much belied if he thought of anything that morning more religious than
the order of battle, which has been preserved, drawn up by his own hand, and in which his troops
are seen still formed in heavy masses, in contrast to the lighter formations of Gustavus. He
was carried down his lines in a litter being crippled by gout, which the surgeons of that day
had tried to cure by cutting into the flesh. But when the action began, he placed his mangled
foot in a stirrup lined with silk, and mounted the small charger, the skin of which is still
shown in the deserted palace of his pride. We may be sure that confidence sat undisturbed upon
his brow; but in his heart he must have felt that though he had brave men around him, the Swedes,
fighting for their cause under their king, were more than men; and that in the balance of battle
then held out, his scale had kicked the beam. There can hardly be a harder trial for human
fortitude than to command in a great action on the weaker side. Villeneuve was a brave man,
though an unfortunate admiral, but he owned that his heart sank within him at Trafalgar when
he saw Nelson bearing down.

"God with us," was the Swedish battle cry. On the other side the words "Jesu-Maria" passed
round, as twenty-five thousand of the most godless and lawless ruffians the world ever saw,
stood to the arms which they had imbrued in the blood not of soldiers only, but of women and
children of captured towns. Doubtless many a wild Walloon and savage Croat, many a fierce Spaniard
and cruel Italian, who had butchered and tortured at Magdeburg, was here come to bite the dust.
These men were children of the camp and the battlefield, long familiar with every form of death,
yet, had they known what a day was now before them, they might have felt like a recruit on
the morning of his first field. Some were afterwards broken or beheaded for misconduct before
the enemy; others earned rich rewards. Most paid, like men of honour, the price for which they
were allowed to glut every lust and revel in every kind of crime.

At nine the sky began to clear, straggling shots told that the armies were catching sight of
each other, and a red glare broke the mist, where the Imperialists had set fire to Lutzen to
cover their right. At ten Gustavus placed himself at the head of his cavalry. War has now changed;
and the telescope is the general's sword. Yet we cannot help feeling that the gallant king,
who cast in his own life with the lives of the peasants he had drawn from their Swedish homes,
is a nobler figure than the great Emperor who, on the same plains, two centuries afterwards,
ordered to their death the masses of youthful valour sent by a ruthless conscription to feed
the vanity of a heart of clay. The Swedes, after the manner of war in that fierce and hardy
age, fell at once with their main force on the whole of the Imperial line. On the left, after
a murderous struggle, they gained ground and took the enemy's guns. But on the right the Imperialists
held firm, and while Gustavus was carrying victory with him to that quarter, Wallenstein restored
the day upon the right. Again Gustavus hurried to that part of the field. Again the Imperialists
gave way, and Gustavus, uncovering his head, thanked God for his victory. At this moment it
seems the mist returned. The Swedes were confused and lost their advantage. A horse, too well
known, ran riderless down their line, and when their cavalry next advanced, they found the
stripped and mangled body of their king. According to the most credible witness, Gustavus who
had galloped forward to see how his advantage might be best followed up, got too near the enemy,
was shot first in the arm, then in the back, and fell from his horse. A party of Imperial cuirassiers
came up, and learning from the wounded man himself who he was, finished the work of death.
They then stripped the body for proofs of their great enemy's fate and relics of the mighty
slain. Dark reports of treason were spread abroad, and one of these reports followed the Duke
of Saxe-Lauenburg, who was with Gustavus that day, through his questionable life to his unhappy
end. In those times a great man could scarcely die without suspicion of foul play, and in all
times men are unwilling to believe that a life on which the destiny of a cause or a nation
hangs can be swept away by the blind, indiscriminate hand of common death.

Gustavus dead, the first thought of his officers was retreat; and that thought was his best
eulogy. Their second thought was revenge. Yet so great was the discouragement that one Swedish
colonel refused to advance, and Bernard of Saxe-Weimar cut him down with his own hand. Again
the struggle began, and with all the morning's fury. Wallenstein had used his respite well.
He knew that his great antagonist was dead, and that he was now the master-spirit on the field.
And with friendly night near, and victory within his grasp, he directed in person the most
desperate combat, prodigal of the life on which, according to his enemies, his treasonable
projects hung. Yet the day was again going against him, when the remainder of Pappenheim's
corps arrived, and the road was once more opened to victory by a charge which cost Pappenheim
his own life. At four o'clock the battle was at its last gasp. The carnage had been fearful
on both sides, and as fearful was the exhaustion. For six hours almost every man in both armies
had borne the terrible excitement of mortal combat with pike and sword; and four times that
excitement had been strained by general charges to its highest pitch. The Imperialists held
their ground, but confused and shattered; their constancy sustained only by that commanding
presence which still moved along their lines, unhurt, grazed and even marked by the storm of
death through which he rode. Just as the sun was setting, the Swedes made the supreme effort
which heroism alone can make. Then Wallenstein gave the signal for retreat, welcome to the
bravest, and as darkness fell upon the field, the shattered masses of the Imperialists drew
off slowly and sullenly into the gloom. Slowly and sullenly they drew off, leaving nothing
to the victor except some guns of position; but they had not gone far when they fell into the
disorganization of defeat.

The judgment of a cause by battle is dreadful. Dreadful it must have seemed to all who were
within sight or hearing of the field of Lutzen when that battle was over. But it is not altogether
irrational and blind. Providence does not visibly interpose in favour of the right. The stars
in their courses do not now fight for the good cause. At Lutzen they fought against it. But
the good cause is its own star. The strength given to the spirit of the Swedes by religious
enthusiasm, the strength given to their bodies by the comparative purity of their lives, enabled
them, when the bravest and hardiest ruffians were exhausted in spirit and body, to make that
last effort which won the day.

Te Deum was sung at Vienna and Madrid, and with good reason. For Vienna and Madrid the death
of Gustavus was better than any victory. For humanity, if the interests of humanity were not
those of Vienna and Madrid, it was worse than any defeat. But for Gustavus himself, was it
good to die glorious and stainless, but before his hour? Triumph and empire, it is said, might
have corrupted the soul which up to that time had been so pure and true. It was, perhaps, well
for him that he was saved from temptation. A deeper morality replies that what was bad for
Gustavus' cause and for his kind, could not be good for Gustavus; and that whether he were
to stand or fall in the hour of temptation, he had better have lived his time and done his
work. We, with our small philosophy, can make allowance for the greater dangers of the higher
sphere; and shall we arrogate to ourselves a larger judgment and ampler sympathies than we
allow to God? Yet Gustavus was happy. Among soldiers and statesmen, if there is a greater,
there is hardly a purer name. He had won not only honour but love, and the friend and comrade
was as much bewailed as the deliverer and the king. In him his Sweden appeared for the first
and last time with true glory on the scene of universal history. In him the spirit of the famous
house of Vasa rose to the first heroic height. It was soon to mount to madness in Christina
and Charles XII.

Not till a year had passed could Sweden bring herself to consign the remains of her Gustavus
to the dust. Then came a hero's funeral, with pomp not unmeaning, with trophies not unbecoming
the obsequies of a Christian warrior, and for mourners the sorrowing nations. In early youth
Gustavus had loved the beautiful Ebba Brahe, daughter of a Swedish nobleman, and she had returned
his love. But etiquette and policy interposed, and Gustavus married Eleanor, a princess of
Brandenburg, also renowned for beauty. The widowed Queen of Gustavus, though she had loved
him with a fondness too great for their perfect happiness, admitted his first love to a partnership
in her grief, and sent Ebba with her own portrait the portrait of him who was gone where, if
love still is, there is no more rivalry in love.

The death of Gustavus was the death of his great antagonist. Gustavus gone, Wallenstein was
no longer indispensable, and he was far more formidable than ever. Lutzen had abated nothing
either of his pride or power. He went forth again from Prague to resume command in almost imperial
pomp. The army was completely in his hands. He negotiated as an independent power, and was
carrying into effect a policy of his own, which seems to have been one of peace for the empire
with amnesty and toleration, and which certainly crossed the policy of the Jesuits and Spain,
now dominant in the Imperial councils. No doubt the great adventurer also intended that his
own grandeur should be augmented and secured. Whether his proceedings gave his master just
cause for alarm remains a mystery. The word, however, went forth against him, and in Austrian
fashion, a friendly correspondence being kept up with him when he had been secretly deposed
and his command transferred to another. Finding himself denounced and outlawed, he resolved
to throw himself on the Swedes. He had arrived at Eger, a frontier fortress of Bohemia. It
was a night apt for crime, dark and stormy, when Gordon, a Scotch Calvinist, in the Imperial
service (for Wallenstein's camp welcomed adventurers of all creeds), and commandant of Eger,
received the most faithful of Wallenstein's officers, Terzka, Kinsky, Illo and Neumann, at
supper in the citadel. The social meal was over, the wine cup was going round; misgiving, if
any misgiving there was, had yielded to comradeship and good cheer, when the door opened and
death, in the shape of a party of Irish troopers, stalked in. The conspirators sprang from
the side of their victims, and shouting, "Long live the Emperor," ranged themselves with drawn
swords against the wall, while the assassins overturned the table and did their work. Wallenstein,
as usual, was not at the banquet. He was, indeed, in no condition for revelry. Gout had shattered
his stately form, reduced his bold handwriting to a feeble scrawl, probably shaken his powerful
mind, though it could rally itself, as at Lutzen, for a decisive hour; and, perhaps, if his
enemies could have waited, the course of nature might have spared them the very high price
which they paid for his blood. He had just dismissed his astrologer, Seni, into whose mouth
the romance of history does not fail to put prophetic warnings, his valet was carrying away
the golden salver, on which his night draught had been brought to him, and he was about to
lie down, when he was drawn to the window by the noise of Butler's regiment surrounding his
quarters, and by the shrieks of the Countesses Terzka and Kinsky, who were wailing for their
murdered husbands. A moment afterwards the Irish Captain Devereux burst into the room, followed
by his fellow-assassins shouting, "Rebels, rebels!" Devereux himself, with a halbert in his
hand, rushed up to Wallenstein, and cried, "Villain, you are to die!" True to his own majesty
the great man spread out his arms, received the weapon in his breast, and fell dead without
a word. But as thought at such moments is swift, no doubt he saw it all--saw the dark conclave
of Italians and Spaniards sitting at Vienna--knew that the murderer before him was the hand
and not the head--read at once his own doom and the doom of his grand designs for Germany and
Friedland. His body was wrapped in a carpet, carried in Gordon's carriage to the citadel, and
there left for a day with those of his murdered friends in the court-yard, then huddled into
a hastily constructed coffin, the legs of the corpse being broken to force it in. Different
obsequies from those of Gustavus, but perhaps equally appropriate, at least equally characteristic
of the cause which the dead man served.

Did Friedland desire to be more than Friedland, to unite some shadow of command with the substance,
to wear some crown of tinsel, as well as the crown of power? We do not know, we know only that
his ways were dark, that his ambition was vast, and that he was thwarting the policy of the
Jesuits and Spain. Great efforts were made in vain to get up a case against his memory; recourse
was had to torture, the use of which always proves that no good evidence is forthcoming; absurd
charges were included in the indictment, such as that of having failed to pursue and destroy
the Swedish army after Lutzen. The three thousand masses which Ferdinand caused to be sung
for Wallenstein's soul, whether they benefited his soul or not, have benefited his fame, for
they seem like the weak self-betrayal of an uneasy conscience, vainly seeking to stifle infamy
and appease the injured shade. Assassination itself condemns all who take part in it or are
accomplices in it, and Ferdinand, who rewarded the assassins of Wallenstein, was at least an
accomplice after the fact. Vast as Wallenstein's ambition was, even for him age and gout must
have begun to close the possibilities of life, and he cannot have been made restless by the
pangs of abortive genius, for he had played the grandest part upon the grandest stage. He had
done enough, it would seem, to make repose welcome, and his retirement would not have been
dull. Often in his letters his mind turns from the camp and council to his own domains, his
rising palaces, his farms, his gardens, his schools, his manufactures, the Italian civilization
which the student of Padua was trying to create in Bohemian wilds, the little empire in the
administration of which he showed that he might have been a good Emperor on a larger scale.
Against his Imperial master he is probably entitled at least to a verdict of not proven, and
to the sympathy due to vast services requited by murder. Against accusing humanity his plea
is far weaker, or rather he has no plea but one of extenuation. If there is a gloomy majesty
about him the fascination of which we cannot help owning, if he was the noblest spirit that
served evil, still it was evil that he served. The bandit hordes which he led were the scourges
of the defenceless people, and in making war support war he set the evil example which was
followed by Napoleon on a greater scale, and perhaps with more guilt, because in a more moral
age. If in any measure he fell a martyr to a policy of toleration, his memory may be credited
with the sacrifice. His toleration was that of indifference, not that of a Christian; yet the
passages of his letters in which he pleads for milder methods of conversion, and claims for
widows an exemption from the extremities of persecution, seem preserved by his better angel
to shed a ray of brightness on his lurid name. Of his importance in history there can be no
doubt. Take your stand on the battle field of Lutzen. To the North all was rescued by Gustavus,
to the South all was held till yesterday by the darker genius of Wallenstein.

Like the mystic bark in the Mort d'Arthur, the ship which carried the remains of Gustavus from
the German shore bore away heroism as well as the hero. Gustavus left great captains in Bernard
of Weimar, Banner, Horn, Wrangel and Tortensohn; in the last, perhaps, a captain equal to himself.
He left in Oxenstierna the greatest statesman and diplomatist of the age. But the guiding light,
the grand aim, the ennobling influence were gone. The Swedes sank almost to the level of the
vile element around, and a torture used by the buccaneers to extract confessions of hidden
treasure bore the name of the Swedish draught. The last grand figure left the scene in Wallenstein.
Nothing remained but mean ferocity and rapine, coarse filibustering among the soldiers, among
the statesmen and diplomatists filibustering a little more refined. All high motives and interests
were dead. The din of controversy which at the outset accompanied the firing of the cannon,
and proved that the cannon was being fired in a great cause, had long since sunk into silence.
Yet for fourteen years after the death of Wallenstein this soulless, aimless drama of horror
and agony dragged on. Every part of Germany was repeatedly laid under heavy war contributions,
and swept through by pillage, murder, rape and arson. For thirty years all countries, even
those of the Cossack and the Stradiot, sent their worst sons to the scene of butchery and plunder.
It may be doubted whether such desolation ever fell upon any civilized and cultivated country.
When the war began Germany was rich and prosperous, full of smiling villages, of goodly cities,
of flourishing universities, of active industry, of invention and discovery, of literature
and learning, of happiness, of progress, of national energy and hope. At its close she was
a material and moral wilderness. In a district, selected as a fair average specimen of the
effects of the war, it is found that of the inhabitants three-fourths, of the cattle four-fifths
had perished. For thirty years the husbandman never sowed with any confidence that he should
reap; the seed-corn was no doubt often consumed by the reckless troopers or the starving peasantry;
and if foreign countries had been able to supply food there were no railroads to bring it.
The villages through whole provinces were burnt or pulled down to supply materials for the
huts of the soldiery; the people hid themselves in dens and caves of the earth, took to the
woods and mountains, where many of them remained swelling the multitude of brigands. When they
could they wreaked upon the lansquenets a vengeance as dreadful as what they had suffered,
and were thus degraded to the same level of ferocity. Moral life was broken up. The Germany
of Luther with its order and piety and domestic virtue, with its old ways and customs, even
with its fashions of dress and furniture, perished almost as though it had been swallowed by
an earthquake. The nation would hardly have survived had it not been for the desperate tenacity
with which the peasant clung to his own soil, and the efforts of the pastors, men of contracted
views, of dogmatic habits of mind, and of a somewhat narrow and sour morality, but staunch
and faithful in the hour of need, who continued to preach and pray amidst blackened ruins to
the miserable remnants of their flocks, and sustained something of moral order and of social life.

Hence in the succeeding centuries, the political nullity of the German nation, the absence
of any strong popular element to make head against the petty despotism of the princes, and
launch Germany in the career of progress. Hence the backwardness and torpor of the Teutonic
race in its original seat, while elsewhere it led the world. Hence, while England was producing
Chathams and Burkes, Germany was producing the great musical composers. Hence when the movement
came it was rather intellectual than political, rather a movement of the universities than
of the nation.

At last, nothing being left for the armies to devour, the masters of the armies began to think
of peace. The diplomatists went to work, and in true diplomatic fashion. Two years they spent
in formalities and haggling, while Germany was swarming with disbanded lansquenets. It was
then that old Oxenstierna said to his son, who had modestly declined an ambassadorship on the
ground of inexperience, "Thou knowest not, my son, with how little wisdom the world is governed."
The object of all the parties to the negotiations was acquisition of territory at the expense
of their neighbours, and the treaty of Westphalia, though, as we have said, it was long the
Public Law of Europe, was an embodiment, not of principles of justice or of the rights of nations,
but of the relative force and cunning of what are happily called the powers. France obtained,
as the fruit of the diplomatic skill with which she had prolonged the agony of Germany, a portion
of the territory which she has recently disgorged. The independence of Germany was saved; and
though it was not a national independence, but an independence of petty despotisms, it was
redemption from Austrian and Jesuit bondage for the present, with the hope of national independence
in the future. When Gustavus broke the Imperial line at Lutzen, Luther and Loyola might have
turned in their graves. Luther had still two centuries and a half to wait, so much difference
in the course of history, in spite of all our philosophies and our general laws, may be made
by an arrow shot at a venture, a wandering breath of pestilence, a random bullet, a wreath
of mist lingering on one of the world's battlefields. But Luther has conquered at last. Would
that he had conquered by other means than war-- war with all its sufferings, with all its passions,
with the hatred, the revenge, the evil pride which it leaves behind it. But he has conquered,
and his victory opens a new and, so far as we can see, a happier era for Europe.

THE LAMPS OF FICTION

Spoken on the Centenary of the Birth of Sir Walter Scott

Ruskin has lighted seven lamps of Architecture, to guide the steps of the architect in the
worthy practice of his art. It seems time that some lamps should be lighted to guide the steps
of the writer of Fiction. Think what the influence of novelists now is, and how some of them
use it! Think of the multitudes who read nothing but novels, and then look into the novels
which they read! I have seen a young man's whole library consisting of thirty or forty of those
paper-bound volumes, which are the bad tobacco of the mind. In England, I looked over three
railway book-stalls in one day. There was hardly a novel by an author of any repute on one
of them. They were heaps of nameless garbage, commended by tasteless, flaunting woodcuts, the
promise of which was no doubt well kept within. Fed upon such food daily, what will the mind
of a nation be? I say that there is no flame at which we can light the Lamp of Fiction purer
or brighter than the genius of him in honour to whose memory we are assembled here to-day.
Scott does not moralize. Heaven be praised that he does not. He does not set a moral object
before him, nor lay down moral rules. But his heart, brave, pure and true, is a law to itself;
and by studying what he does we may find the law for all who follow his calling. If seven lamps
have been lighted for architecture, Scott will light as many for fiction.

I. The Lamp of Reality.--The novelist must ground his work in faithful study of human nature.
There was a popular writer of romances, who, it was said, used to go round to the fashionable
watering-places to pick up characters. That was better than nothing. There is another popular
writer who, it seems, makes voluminous indices of men and things, and draws on them for his
material. This also is better than nothing. For some writers, and writers dear to the circulating
libraries too, might, for all that appeals in their works, lie in bed all day, and write by
night under the excitement of green tea. Creative art, I suppose, they call this, and it is
creative with a vengeance. Not so, Scott. The human nature which he paints, he had seen in
all its phases, gentle and simple, in burgher and shepherd, Highlander, Lowlander, Borderer,
and Islesman; he had come into close contact with it, he had opened it to himself by the talisman
of his joyous and winning presence; he had studied it thoroughly with a clear eye and an all-embracing
heart. When his scenes are laid in the past, he has honestly studied the history. The history
of his novels is perhaps not critically accurate, not up to the mark of our present knowledge,
but in the main it is sound and true--sounder and more true than that of many professed historians,
and even than that of his own historical works, in which he sometimes yields to prejudice,
while in his novels he is lifted above it by his loyalty to his art.

II. The Lamp of Ideality.--The materials of the novelist must be real; they must be gathered
from the field of humanity by his actual observation. But they must pass through the crucible
of the imagination; they must be idealized. The artist is not a photographer, but a painter.
He must depict not persons but humanity, otherwise he forfeits the artist's name, and the power
of doing the artist's work in our hearts. When we see a novelist bring out a novel with one
or two good characters, and then, at the fatal bidding of the booksellers, go on manufacturing
his yearly volume, and giving us the same character or the same few characters over and over
again, we may be sure that he is without the power of idealization. He has merely photographed
what he has seen, and his stock is exhausted. It is wonderful what a quantity of the mere lees
of such writers, more and more watered down, the libraries go on complacently circulating,
and the reviews go on complacently reviewing. Of course, this power of idealization is the
great gift of genius. It is that which distinguishes Homer, Shakespeare, and Walter Scott,
from ordinary men. But there is also a moral effort in rising above the easy work of mere description
to the height of art. Need it be said that Scott is thoroughly ideal as well as thoroughly
real? There are vague traditions that this man and the other was the original of some character
in Scott. But who can point out the man of whom a character in Scott is a mere portrait? It
would be as hard as to point out a case of servile delineation in Shakespeare. Scott's characters
are never monsters or caricatures. They are full of nature; but it is universal nature. Therefore
they have their place in the universal heart, and will keep that place for ever. And mark that
even in his historical novels he is still ideal. Historical romance is a perilous thing. The
fiction is apt to spoil the fact, and the fact the fiction; the history to be perverted and
the romance to be shackled: daylight to kill dreamlight, and dreamlight to kill daylight. But
Scott takes few liberties with historical facts and characters; he treats them, with the costume
and the manners of the period, as the background of the picture. The personages with whom he
deals freely, are the Peverils and the Nigels; and these are his lawful property, the offspring
of his own imagination, and belong to the ideal.

III. The Lamp of Impartiality.--The novelist must look on humanity without partiality or prejudice.
His sympathy, like that of the historian, must be unbounded, and untainted by sect or party.
He must see everywhere the good that is mixed with evil, the evil that is mixed with good.
And this he will not do, unless his heart is right. It is in Scott's historical novels that
his impartiality is most severely tried and is most apparent; though it is apparent in all
his works. Shakespeare was a pure dramatist; nothing but art found a home in that lofty, smooth,
idealistic brow. He stands apart not only from the political and religious passions but from
the interests of his time, seeming hardly to have any historical surroundings, but to shine
like a planet suspended by itself in the sky. So it is with that female Shakespeare in miniature,
Miss Austen. But Scott took the most intense interest in the political struggles of his time.
He was a fiery partisan, a Tory in arms against the French Revolution. In his account of the
coronation of George IV. a passionate worship of monarchy breaks forth, which, if we did not
know his noble nature, we might call slavish. He sacrificed, ease, and at last life, to his
seignorial aspirations. On one occasion he was even carried beyond the bounds of propriety
by his opposition to the Whig chief. The Cavalier was his political ancestor, the Covenanter
the ancestor of his political enemy. The idols which the Covenanting iconoclast broke were
his. He would have fought against the first revolution under Montrose, and against the second
under Dundee. Yet he is perfectly, serenely just to the opposite party. Not only is he just,
he is sympathetic. He brings out their worth, their valour, such grandeur of character as they
have, with all the power of his art, making no distinction in this respect between friend and
foe. If they have a ridiculous side he uses it for the purposes of his art, but genially, playfully,
without malice. If there was a laugh left in the Covenanters, they would have laughed at their
own portraits as painted by Scott. He shows no hatred of anything but wickedness itself. Such
a novelist is a most effective preacher of liberality and charity; he brings our hearts nearer
to the Impartial Father of us all.

IV. The Lamp of Impersonality.--Personality is lower than partiality. Dante himself is open
to the suspicion of partiality: it is said, not without apparent ground, that he puts into
hell all the enemies of the political cause, which, in his eyes, was that of Italy and God.
A legend tells that Leonardo da Vinci was warned that his divine picture of the Last Supper
would fade, because he had introduced his personal enemy as Judas, and thus desecrated art
by making it serve personal hatred. The legend must be false, Leonardo had too grand a soul.
A wretched woman in England, at the beginning of the last century, Mrs. Manley, systematically
employed fiction as a cover for personal libel; but such an abuse of art as this could be practiced
or countenanced only by the vile. Novelists, however, often debase fiction by obtruding their
personal vanities, favouritisms, fanaticisms and antipathies. We had, the other day, a novel,
the author of which introduced himself almost by name as a heroic character, with a description
of his own personal appearance, residence, and habits as fond fancy painted them to himself.
There is a novelist, who is a man of fashion, and who makes the age of the heroes in his successive
novels advance with his own, so that at last we shall have irresistible fascination at seven
score years and ten. But the commonest and the most mischievous way in which personality breaks
out is pamphleteering under the guise of fiction. One novel is a pamphlet against lunatic asylums,
another against model prisons, a third against the poor law, a fourth against the government
offices, a fifth against trade unions. In these pretended works of imagination facts are joined
in support of a crotchet or an antipathy with all the license of fiction; calumny revels without
restraint, and no cause is served but that of falsehood and injustice. A writer takes offence
at the excessive popularity of athletic sports; instead of bringing out an accurate and conscientious
treatise to advocate moderation, he lets fly a novel painting the typical boating man as a
seducer of confiding women, the betrayer of his friend, and the murderer of his wife. Religious
zealots are very apt to take this method of enlisting imagination, as they think, on the side
of truth. We had once a high Anglican novel in which the Papist was eaten alive by rats, and
the Rationalist and Republican was slowly seethed in molten lead, the fate of each being, of
course, a just judgment of heaven on those who presumed to differ from the author. Thus the
voice of morality is confounded with that of tyrannical petulance and self-love. Not only is
Scott not personal, but we cannot conceive his being so. We cannot think it possible that he
should degrade his art by the indulgence of egotism, or crotchets, or petty piques. Least of
all can we think it possible that his high and gallant nature should use art as a cover for
striking a foul blow.

V. The Lamp of Purity--I heard Thackeray thank Heaven for the purity of Dickens. I thanked
Heaven for the purity of a greater than Dickens--Thackeray himself. We may all thank Heaven
for the purity of one still greater than either, Sir Walter Scott. I say still greater morally,
as well as in power as an artist, because in Thackeray there is cynicism, though the more genial
and healthy element predominates; and cynicism, which is not good in the great writer, becomes
very bad in the little reader. We know what most of the novels were before Scott. We know the
impurity, half-redeemed, of Fielding, the unredeemed impurity of Smollett, the lecherous leer
of Sterne, the coarseness even of Defoe. Parts of Richardson himself could not be read by a
woman without a blush. As to French novels, Carlyle says of one of the most famous of the last
century that after reading it you ought to wash seven times in Jordan; but after reading the
French novels of the present day, in which lewdness is sprinkled with sentimental rosewater,
and deodorized, but by no means disinfected, your washings had better be seventy times seven.
There is no justification for this; it is mere pandering, under whatever pretence, to evil
propensities; it makes the divine art of Fiction "procuress to the Lords of Hell," If our established
morality is in any way narrow and unjust, appeal to Philosophy, not to Comus; and remember
that the mass of readers are not philosophers. Coleridge pledges himself to find the deepest
sermons under the filth of Rabelais; but Coleridge alone finds the sermons while everybody
finds the filth. Impure novels have brought and are bringing much misery on the world. Scott's
purity is not that of cloistered innocence and inexperience, it is the manly purity of one
who had seen the world, mingled with men of the world, known evil as well as good; but who,
being a true gentleman, abhorred filth, and teaches us to abhor it too.

VI. The Lamp of Humanity.--One day we see the walls placarded with the advertising woodcut
of a sensation novel, representing a girl tied to a table and a man cutting off her feet into
a tub. Another day we are allured by a picture of a woman sitting at a sewing-machine and a
man seizing her behind by the hair, and lifting a club to knock her brains out. A French novelist
stimulates your jaded palate by introducing a duel fought with butchers' knives by the light
of lanterns. One genius subsists by murder, as another does by bigamy and adultery. Scott would
have recoiled from the blood as well as from the ordure, he would have allowed neither to defile
his noble page. He knew that there was no pretence for bringing before a reader what is merely
horrible, that by doing so you only stimulate passions as low as licentiousness itself--the
passions which were stimulated by the gladiatorial shows in degraded Rome, which are stimulated
by the bull- fights in degraded Spain, which are stimulated among ourselves by exhibitions
the attraction of which really consists in their imperilling human life. He knew that a novelist
had no right even to introduce the terrible except for the purpose of exhibiting human heroism,
developing character, awakening emotions which when awakened dignify and save from harm. It
is want of genius and of knowledge of their craft that drives novelists to outrage humanity
with horrors. Miss Austen can interest and even excite you as much with the little domestic
adventures of Emma as some of her rivals can with a whole Newgate calendar of guilt and gore.

VII. The Lamp of Chivalry.--Of this briefly. Let the writer of fiction give us humanity in
all its phases, the comic as well as the tragic, the ridiculous as well as the sublime; but
let him not lower the standard of character or the aim of life. Shakespeare does not. We delight
in his Falstaffs and his clowns as well as in his Hamlets and Othellos, but he never familiarizes
us with what is base and mean. The noble and chivalrous always holds its place as the aim of
true humanity in his ideal world. Perhaps Dickens is not entirely free from blame in this respect;
perhaps Pickwickianism has in some degree familiarized the generation of Englishmen who have
been fed upon it with what is not chivalrous, to say the least, in conduct, as it unquestionably
has with slang in conversation. But Scott, like Shakespeare, wherever the thread of his fiction
may lead him, always keeps before himself and us the highest ideal which he knew, the ideal
of a gentleman. If anyone says these are narrow bounds wherein to confine fiction I answer
there has been room enough within them for the highest tragedy, the deepest pathos, the broadest
humour, the widest range of character, the most moving incident, that the world has ever enjoyed.
There has been room within them for all the kings of pure and healthy fiction--for Homer, Shakespeare,
Cervantes, Moliere, Scott. "Farewell Sir Walter," says Carlyle at the end of his essay, "farewell
Sir Walter, pride of all Scotchmen. Scotland has said farewell to her mortal son. But all humanity
welcomes him as Scotland's noblest gift to her and crowns him as on this day one of the heirs
of immortality."

AN ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE OXFORD SCHOOL OF SCIENCE AND ART AT THE DISTRIBUTION OF PRIZES

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,

You will not expect me, in complying with the custom which requires your Chairman to address
a few words to you before distributing the prizes, to give you instruction about Art or Science.
One who was educated, as I was, under the old system, can hardly see without a pang the improvement
that has been made in education since his time. In a public school, in my day, you learned
nothing of Science, Art, or Music. Having received nothing, I have nothing to give. Fortunately,
the only thing of importance to be said this evening can be said without technical knowledge
of any kind. The School of Art needs better accommodation. The financial details will be explained
to you by those who are more conversant with them than I am. I will only say that parsimony
in this matter on the part of the government or other public bodies will, in my humble opinion,
be unwise. I am not for a lavish expenditure of public money, even on education. It would be
a misfortune if parental duty were to be cast on the State, and parents were to be allowed
to forget that they are bound to provide their children with education as well as with bread.
But it seems that at this moment the soundest and even the most strictly commercial policy
would counsel liberality in providing for the National Schools of Art and Science. England
is labouring under commercial depression. Of the works in the manufacturing districts, many
are running half time, and some, I fear, are likely, if things do not mend, to stop. When I
was there the other day gloom was on all faces. Some people seem to think that the bad time
will pass away of itself, and that a good time will come again like a new moon. It is a comfortable
but a doubtful doctrine. And suppose the good time does not come again, the outlook for those
masses and their employers is dark. A friend of mine, who is a manufacturer, said to me the
other day that he had been seeing the ruins of a feudal castle, and that the sight set him
thinking if factories should ever, like feudal castles, fall into decay, what their ruins would
be like? They would be unromantic no doubt, even by moonlight. But much worse than the ruins
of buildings would be the ruin among the people. Imagine these swarming multitudes, or any
large proportion of them, left by the failure of employment without bread. It would be something
like a chronic Indian famine. The wealth of England is unparalleled, unapproached in commercial
history. Add Carthage to Tyre, Venice to Carthage, Amsterdam to Venice, you will not make anything
like a London. Ten thousand pounds paid for a pair of china vases. A Roman noble under the
Empire might have rivalled this, but the wealth of the Roman nobles was not the fruit of industry,
it was the plunder of the world. You can hardly imagine how those who come fresh from a new
country like Canada, or parts of the United States--a land just redeemed from the wilderness,
with all its untrimmed roughness, its fields half tilled and full of stumps, its snake fences,
and the charred pines which stand up gaunt monuments of forest fires--are impressed, I might
almost say ravished, by the sight of the lovely garden which unlimited wealth expended on a
limited space has made of England. This country, too, has an immense capital invested in the
funds and securities of foreign nations, and in this way draws tribute from the world, though,
unhappily, we are being made sensible of the fact that money lent to a foreign government is
lent to a debtor on whom you cannot distrain. But the sources of this fabulous prosperity,
are they inexhaustible? In part, we may hope they are. A maritime position, admirably adapted
for trading with both hemispheres, a race of first- rate seamen, masses of skilled labour,
vast accumulations of machinery and capital--these are advantages not easily lost. And there
is still in England good store of coal and iron. Not so stable, however, is the advantage given
to England by the effects of the Napoleonic war, which for the time crushed all manufactures
and mercantile marines but hers. Now, the continental nations are developing manufactures and
mercantile marines of their own. You go round asking them to alter their tariffs, so as to
enable you to recover their markets, and almost all of them refuse; about the only door you
have really succeeded in getting opened to you is that of France, and this was opened, not
by the nation, but by an autocrat, who had diplomatic purposes of his own. The Times, indeed,
in a noteworthy article the other day, undertook to prove that a great manufacturing and trading
nation might lose its customers without being much the worse for it, but this seems too good
to be true; I fancy Yorkshire and Lancashire would say so. Is it not that very margin of profit
of which The Times speaks so lightly, which, being accumulated, has created the wealth of England?
Your manufacturers are certainly under the impression that they want markets, and the loss
of the great American market seems to them a special matter of concern. It is doubtful whether
that market would be restored to them even by an alteration of the tariff. The coal in the
great American coal fields is much nearer the surface, and consequently more cheaply worked,
than the coal in England; iron is as plentiful, and it is near the coal; labour, which has
been much dearer there, is now falling to the English level. Tariff or no tariff, America will
probably keep her own market for the heavier and coarser goods. But there is still a kind of
goods, in the production of which the old country will long have a great advantage. I mean
the lighter, finer, and more elegant goods, the products of cultivated taste and of trained
skill in design--that very kind of goods, in short, the character of which these Schools of
Art are specially intended to improve. Industry and invention the new world has in as ample
a measure as the old; invention in still ampler measure, for the Americans are a nation of
inventors; but cultivated taste and its special products will long be the appanage of old countries.
It will be long before anything of that kind will pass current in the new world without the
old world stamp. Adapt your industry in some degree to changed requirements; acquire those
finer faculties which the Schools of Design aim at cultivating, but which, in the lucrative
production of the coarser goods, have hitherto been comparatively neglected, and you may recover
a great American market; it is doubtful whether you will in any other way. Therefore, I repeat,
to stint the Art and Science Schools would seem bad policy. I may add that it would be specially
bad policy here in Oxford, where, under the auspices of a University which is now extending
its care to Art as well as Science, it would seem that the finer industries, such as design
applied to furniture, decoration of all kinds, carving, painted glass, bookbinding, ought in
time to do particularly well. If you wish to prosper, cultivate your speciality; the rule holds
good for cities as well as for men.

There are some, perhaps, who dislike to think of Art in connection with anything like manufacture.
Let us, then, call it design, and keep the name of art for the higher pursuit. Your Instructor
presides, I believe, with success, and without finding his duties clash, over a school, the
main object of which is the improvement of manufactures, and another school dedicated to the
higher objects of aesthetic cultivation. The name manufacture reminds you of machines, and
you may dislike machines and think there is something offensive to artists in their products.
Well, a machine does not produce, or pretend to produce, poetry or sculpture; it pretends to
clothe thousands of people who would otherwise go naked. It is itself often a miracle of human
intellect. It works unrestingly that humanity may have a chance to rest. If it sometimes supersedes
higher work, it far more often, by relieving man of the lowest work, sets him free for the
higher. Those heaps of stones broken by the hammer of a poor wretch who bends over his dull
task through the weary day by the roadside, scantily clad, in sharp frost perhaps or chilling
showers, are they more lovely to a painter's eye than if they had been broken, without so much
human labour and suffering, by a steam stone-crusher? No one doubts the superior interest belonging
to any work however imperfect, of individual mind; but if we were not to use a pair of tongs
that did not bear the impress of individual mind, millionaires might have tongs, but the rest
of us would put on coals with our fingers. After all, what is a machine but a perfect tool?
The Tyrian loom was a machine, though it was worked by hand and not by steam; and if the Tyrian
had known the power loom, depend upon it he would have used it. Without machines, the members
of this School might all be grinding their corn with hand mills, instead of learning Art. Common
humanity must use manufactured articles; even uncommon humanity will find it difficult to avoid
using them, unless it has the courage of its convictions to the same extent as George Fox,
the Quaker, who encased himself in an entire suit of home-made leather, bearing the impress
of his individual mind; and defied a mechanical and degenerate world. The only practical question
is whether the manufactures shall be good or bad, well-designed or ill; South Kensington answers,
that if training can do it, they shall be good and well designed.

There are the manufacturing multitudes of England; they must have work, and find markets for
their work; if machines and the Black Country are ugly, famine would be uglier still. I have
no instruction to give you, and you would not thank me for wasting your time with rhetorical
praise of art, even if I had all the flowers of diction at my command. To me, as an outer barbarian,
it seems that some of the language on these subjects is already pretty high pitched. I have
thought so even in reading that one of Mr. Addington Symond's most attractive volumes about
Italy which relates to Italian art. Art is the interpreter of beauty, and perhaps beauty, if
we could penetrate to its essence, might reveal to us something higher than itself. But Art
is not religion, nor is connoisseurship priesthood. To happiness Art lends intensity and elevation;
but in affliction, in ruin, in the wreck of affection how much can Phidias and Raphael do for
you? A poet makes Goethe say to a sceptical and perplexed world, "Art still has truth, take
refuge there." It would be a poor refuge for most of us; it was so even for the great Goethe;
for with all his intellectual splendour, his character never rose above a grandiose and statuesque
self-love; he behaved ill to his country, ill to women. Instead of being religion, Art seems,
for its own perfection, to need religion--not a system of dogma, but a faith. This, probably,
we all feel when we look at the paintings in the Church of Assisi or in the Arena Chapel at
Padua. Perhaps those paintings also gain something by being in the proper place for religious
art, a Church. Since the divorce of religious art from religion, it has been common to see
a Crucifixion hung over a sideboard. That age was an age of faith; and so most likely was the
glorious age of Greek art in its way. Ours is an age of doubt, an age of doubt and of strange
cross currents and eddies of opinion, ultra scepticism penning its books in the closet while
the ecclesiastical forms of the Middle Ages stalk the streets. Art seems to feel the disturbing
influence like the rest of life. Poetry feels it less than other arts, because there is a poetry
of doubt and Tennyson is its poet. Art is expression, and to have high expression you must
have something high to express. In the pictures at our exhibitions there may be great technical
skill; I take it for granted there is; but in the subject surely there is a void, an appearance
of painful seeking for something to paint, and finding very little. When you come to a great
picture of an Egyptian banquet in the days of the Pharaohs, you feel that the painter must
have had a long way to go for something to paint. Certainly this age is not indifferent to
beauty. The art movement is in every house; everywhere you see some proof of a desire to possess
not mere ornament but something really rare and beautiful. The influence transmutes children's
picture books and toys. I turned up the other day a child's picture book of the days of my
childhood; probably it had been thought wonderfully good in its time; and what a thing it was.
Some day our doubts may be cleared up; our beliefs may be settled; faith may come again; life
may recover its singleness and certainty of aim; poetry may gush forth once more as fresh as
Homer, and the art of the future may appear. What is most difficult to conceive, perhaps, is
the sculpture of the future; because it is hardly possible that the moderns should ever have
such facilities as the ancients had for studying the human form. In presence of the overwhelming
magnificence of the sculpture in the museums of Rome and Naples, one wonders how Canova and
Co. can have looked with any complacency on their own productions. There seems reason by the
way to think that these artists worked not each by himself, but in schools and brotherhoods
with mutual aid and sympathy; and this is an advantage equally within the reach of modern art.
Meantime, though the Art of the future delays to come, modern life is not all hideous. There
are many things, no doubt, such as the Black Country and the suburbs of our cities, on which
the eye cannot rest with pleasure. But Paris is not hideous. There may be in the long lines
of buildings too much of the autocratic monotony of the Empire, but the city, as a whole, is
the perfect image of a brilliant civilization. From London beauty is almost banished by smoke
and fog, which deny to the poor architect ornament, colour, light and shadow, leaving him nothing
but outline. No doubt besides the smoke and fog there is a fatality. There is a fatality which
darkly impels us to place on our finest site, and one of the finest in Europe, the niggard
facade and inverted teacup dome of the National Gallery; to temper the grandeurs of Westminster
by the introduction of the Aquarium, with Mr. Hankey's Tower of Babel in the near distance;
to guard against any too-imposing effect which the outline of the Houses of Parliament might
have by covering them with minute ornament, sure to be blackened and corroded into one vast
blotch by smoke; to collect the art wonders of Pigtail Place; to make the lions in Trafalgar
Square lie like cats on a hearth-rug, instead of supporting themselves on a slope by muscular
action, like the lions at Genoa; to perch a colossal equestrian statue of the Duke of Wellington,
arrayed in his waterproof cape, and mounted on a low-shouldered hack instead of a charger,
on the top of an arch, by way of perpetual atonement to France for Waterloo; and now to think
of planting an obelisk of the Pharaohs on a cab-stand. An obelisk of the Pharaohs in ancient
Rome was an august captive, symbolizing the university of the Roman Empire, but an obelisk
of the Pharaohs in London symbolizes little more than did the Druidical ring of stones which
an English squire of my acquaintance purchased in one of the Channel Islands and set up in
his English park. As to London we must console ourselves with the thought that if life outside
is less poetic than it was in the days of old, inwardly its poetry is much deeper. If the house
is less beautiful the home is more so. Even a house in what Tennyson calls the long unlovely
street is not utterly unlovely when within it dwell cultivated intellect, depth of character
and tenderness of affection. However the beauty of English life is in the country and there
it may challenge that of Italian palaces. America is supposed to be given over to ugliness.
There are a good many ugly things there and the ugliest are the most pretentious. As it is
in society so it is in architecture. America is best when she is content to be herself. An
American city with its spacious streets all planted with avenues of trees with its blocks of
buildings far from unimpeachable probably in detail yet stately in the mass with its wide spreading
suburbs where each artizan has his neat looking house in his own plot of ground and light and
air and foliage with its countless church towers and spires far from faultless yet varying
the outline might not please a painters eye but it fills your mind with a sense of well rewarded
industry of comfort and even opulence shared by the toiling man of a prosperous, law-loving,
cheerful, and pious life. I cannot help fancying that Turner, whose genius got to the soul
of everything, would have made something of even in American city. The cities of the Middle
Ages were picturesquely huddled within walls for protection from the violence of the feudal
era, the cities of the New World spread wide in the security of an age of law and a continent
of peace. At Cleveland in Ohio there is a great street called Euclid Avenue, lined with villas
each standing in its own grounds and separated from each other and from the street only by
a light iron fencing instead of the high brick wall with which the Briton shuts out his detested
kind. The villas are not vast or suggestive of over-grown plutocracy, they are suggestive of
moderate wealth, pleasant summers, cheerful winters and domestic happiness. I hardly think
you would call Euclid Avenue revolting. I say it with the diffidence of conscious ignorance
but I should not be much afraid to show you one or two buildings that our Professor of Architecture
at Cornell University has put up for us on a bluff over Cayuga Lake, on a site which you would
certainly admit to be magnificent. If I could have ventured on any recommendation concerning
Art, I should have pleaded before the Royal Commission for a Chair of Architecture here. It
might endow us with some forms of beauty; it might at all events endow us with rules for building
a room in which you can be heard, one in which you can breathe, and a chimney which would not
smoke. I said that in America the most pretentious buildings were the worst. Another source
of failure in buildings, in dress, and not in these alone, is servile imitation of Europe.
In northern America the summer is tropical, the winter is arctic. A house ought to be regular
and compact in shape, so as to be easily warmed from the centre, with a roof of simple construction,
high pitched, to prevent the snow from lodging, and large eaves to throw it off,--this for
the arctic winter, for the tropical summer you want ample verandas, which, in fact, are the
summer sitting rooms. An American house built in this way is capable at least of the beauty
which belongs to fitness. But as you see Parisian dresses under an alien sky, so you see Italian
villas with excrescences which no stove can warm, and Tudor mansions with gables which hold
all the snow. It is needless to say what is the result, when the New World undertakes to reproduce
not only the architecture of the Old World, but that of classical Greece and Rome, or that
of the Middle Ages. Jefferson, who was a classical republican, taught a number of his fellow
citizens to build their homes like Doric temples, and you may imagine what a Doric temple freely
adapted to domestic purposes must be. But are these attempts to revive the past very successful
anywhere? We regard as a decided mistake the revived classicism of the last generation. May
not our revived mediaevalism be regarded as a mistake by the generation that follows us? We
could all probably point to some case in which the clashing of mediaeval beauties with modern
requirements has produced sad and ludicrous results. There is our own museum; the best, I suppose,
that could be done in the way of revival; the work of an architect whom the first judges deemed
a man of genius. In that, ancient form and modern requirements seem everywhere at cross purposes.
Nobody can deny that genius is impressed upon the upper part of the front, which reminds one
of a beautiful building in an Italian city, though the structure at the side recalls the mind
to Glastonbury, and the galaxy of chimneys has certainly no parallel in Italy. The front ought
to stand in a street, but as it stands in a field its flanks have to be covered by devices
which are inevitably weak. What is to be done with the back always seems to me one of the darkest
enigmas of the future. The basement is incongruously plain and bare, in the street it would
perhaps be partly hidden by the passengers. Going in, you find a beautiful mediaeval court
struggling hard for its life against a railway station and a cloister, considerately offering
you a shady walk or shelter from the weather round a room. Listen to the multitudinous voices
of Science and you will hear that the conflict extends to practical accommodation. We all know
it was not the fault of the architect, it was the fault of adverse exigencies which came into
collision with his design, but this only strengthens the moral of the building against revivals.
Two humble achievements, if we had chosen were certainly within our reach,--perfect adaptation
to our object and inoffensive dignity. Every one who has a heart, however ignorant of architecture
he may be, feels the transcendent beauty and poetry of the mediaeval churches. For my part
I look up with admiration, as fervent as any one untrained in art can, to those divine creations
of old religion which soar over the smoke and din of our cities into purity and stillness and
seem to challenge us, with all our wealth and culture and science and mechanical power, to
produce their peer till the age of faith shall return. Not Greek Art itself springing forth
in its perfection from the dark background of primaeval history, seems to me a greater miracle
than these. How poor beside the lowliest of them in religious effect in romance, in everything
but size and technical skill, is any pile of neo-paganism even I will dare to say, St. Peter's.
Yet for my part, deeply as I am moved by the religious architecture of the Middle Ages, I cannot
honestly say that I ever felt the slightest emotion in any modern Gothic church. I will even
own that, except where restoration rids us of the unchristian exclusiveness of pews, I prefer
the unrestored churches, with something of antiquity about them, to the restored. There is
a spell in mediaeval Art which has had power to bewitch some people into trying, or wishing
to try, or fancying that they wish to try or making believe to fancy that they wish to try,
to bring back the Middle Ages. You may hear pinings for the return of an age of force from
gentle aestheticists, who, if the awe of force did return, would certainly be crushed like
eggshells. There is a well-known tale by Hans Andersen, that great though child-like teacher,
called the "Overshoes of Fortune." A gentleman, at an evening party, has been running down
modern society and wishing he were in the heroic Middle Ages. In going away he unwittingly
puts on the fairy overshoes, which have the gift of transporting the wearer at once to any
place and time where he wishes to be. Stepping out he finds his own wish fulfilled--he is in
the Middle Ages. There is no gas, the street is pitch dark, he is up to his ankles in mud,
he is nearly knocked into the kennel by a mediaeval bishop returning from a revel with his
roystering train, when he wants to cross the river there is no bridge; and after vainly inquiring
his way in a tavern full of very rough customers, he wishes himself in the moon, and to the
moon appropriately he goes. Mediaevalism can hardly be called anything but a rather enfeebling
dream. If it were a real effort to live in the Middle Ages, your life would be one perpetual
prevarication. You would be drawn by the steam engine to lecture against steam; you would send
eloquent invectives against printing to the press, and you would be subsisting meanwhile on
the interest of investments which the Middle Ages would have condemned as usury. If you were
like some of the school, you would praise the golden silence of the Dark Ages and be talking
all the time. And surely the hourly failure to act up to your principles, the hourly and conscious
apostacy from your ideal, could beget nothing in the character but hollowness and weakness.
No student of history can fail to see the moral interest of the Middle Ages, any more than
an artist can fail to see their aesthetic interest. There were some special types of noble
character then, of which, when they were done with, nature broke the mould. But the mould is
broken, and it is broken for ever. Through aesthetic pining for a past age, we may become unjust
to our own, and thus weaken our practical sense of duty, and lessen our power of doing good.
I will call the age bad when it makes me so, is a wise saying, and worth all our visionary
cynicism, be it never so eloquent. To say the same thing in other words, our age will be good
enough for most of us, if there is genuine goodness in ourselves. Rousseau fancied he was soaring
above his age, not into the thirteenth century, but into the state of nature, while he was
falling miserably below his own age in all the common duties and relations of life; and he
was a type, not of enthusiasts, for enthusiasm leads to action, but of mere social dreamers.
Where there is duty, there is poetry, and tragedy too, in plenty, though it be in the most
prosaic row of dingy little brick houses with clothes hanging out to dry, or rather to be wetted,
behind them, in all Lancashire. We have commercial fraud now, too much of it; and the declining
character of English goods is a cause of their exclusion from foreign markets, as well as hostile
tariffs; so that everything South Kensington can do to uphold good and genuine work will be
of the greatest advantage to the English trade. But if anyone supposes that there was no commercial
fraud in the Middle Ages, let him study the commercial legislation of England for that period,
and his mind will be satisfied, if he has a mind to be satisfied and not only a fancy to run
away with him. There was fraud beneath the cross of the Crusader, and there was forgery in
the cell of the Monk. In comparing the general quality of work we must remember that it is
the best work of those times that has survived. I think I could prove from history that mediaeval
floors sometimes gave way even when there was no St. Dunstan there. You will recollect that
the floor miraculously fell in at a synod, and killed all St. Dunstan's opponents; but sceptics,
who did not easily believe in miracles, whispered that the Saint from his past habits, knew
how to handle tools. We are told by those whose creed is embodied in "Past and Present" that
this age is one vast anarchy, industrial and social; and that nothing but military discipline--that
is the perpetual cry--will restore us to anything like order as workers or as men. Well, there
are twenty thousand miles of railway in the three kingdoms, forming a system as complex as
it is vast. I am told that at one junction, close to London, the trains pass for some hours
at the rate of two in five minutes. Consider how that service is done by the myriads of men
employed, and this in all seasons and weathers in overwhelming heat, in numbing cold, in blinding
storm, in midnight darkness. Is not this an army pretty well disciplined, though its object
is not bloodshed? If we see masses full of practical energy and good sense, but wanting in
culture, let us take our culture to them, and perhaps they will give us some of their practical
energy and good sense in return. Without that Black Country industry, all begrimed and sweaty,
our fine culture could not exist. Everything we use, nay, our veriest toy represents lives
spent for us in delving beneath the dark and perilous mine, in battling with the wintry sea,
in panting before the glowing forge, in counting the weary hours over the monotonous and unresting
loom, lives of little value, one could think, if there were no hereafter. Let us at least be
kind. I go to Saltaire. I find a noble effort made by a rich man who kept his heart above wealth,
Titus Salt-- he was a baronet, but we will spare him, as we spare Nelson, the derogatory prefix--to
put away what is dark and evil in factory life. I find a little town, I should have thought
not unpleasant to the eye, and certainly not unpleasant to the heart, where labour dwells in
pure air, amidst beautiful scenery, with all the appliances of civilization, with everything
that can help it to health, morality, and happiness. I find a man, who might, if he pleased,
live idly in the lap of luxury, working like a horse in the management of this place, bearing
calmly not only toil and trouble, but perverseness and ingratitude. Surely, aesthetic culture
would be a doubtful blessing if it made us think or speak unsympathetically and rudely of Saltaire.
Four hundred thousand people at Manchester are without pure water. They propose to get it from
Thirlmere. For this they are denounced in that sort of language which is called strong, but
the use of which is a sure proof of weakness, for irritability was well defined by Abernethy
as debility in a state of excitement. Let us spare, whenever they can be spared, history and
beauty; they are a priceless part of the heritage of a great industrial nation, and one which
lost can never be restored. The only difference I ever had with my fellow-citizens in Oxford
during a pretty long residence, arose out of my opposition to a measure which would have marred
the historic character and the beauty of our city, while I was positively assured on the best
authority that it was commercially inexpedient. If Thirlmere can be spared, spare Thirlmere;
but if it is really needed to supply those masses with a necessary of life, the loveliest lake
by which poet or artist ever wandered could not be put to a nobler use. I am glad in this to
follow the Bishop of Manchester, who is not made of coarse clay, though he cares for the health
as well as for the religion of his people. A schism between aesthetic Oxford and industrial
Lancashire would be a bad thing for both; and South Kensington, which, while it teaches art,
joins hands with industry, surely does well. It is needless to debate before this audience
the question whether there is any essential antagonism between art or esthetic culture, and
the tendencies of an age of science. An accidental antagonism there may be, an essential antagonism
there cannot be. What is science but truth, and why should not truth and beauty live together?
Is an artist a worse painter of the human body from being a good anatomist? Then why should
he be a worse painter of nature generally, because he knows her secrets, or because they are
being explored in his time? Would he render moonlight better if he believed the moon was a
green cheese? Art and Science dwelt together well enough in the minds of Leonardo da Vinci
and Michael Angelo. In the large creative mind there is room for both; though the smaller and
merely perceptive mind being fixed on one may sometimes not have room for the other. True,
the perfect concord of art and science, like that of religion and science, may be still to
come, and come, we hope, both concords will. One word more before we distribute the prizes.
A system of prizes is a system of competition, and to competition some object. We can readily
sympathise with their objection. Work done from love of the subject, or from a sense of duty,
is better than work done for a prize, and, moreover, we cherish the hope that co-operation,
not competition, will be the ultimate principle of industry, and the final state of man. But
nothing hinders that, in working for a prize as in working for your bread, you may, at the
same time, be working from sense of duty and love of the subject, and though co-operation may
be our final state, competition is our present. Here the competition is at least fair. There
can hardly be any doubt that the prize system often calls into activity powers of doing good
work which would otherwise have lain dormant, and if it does this it is useful to the community,
though the individual needs to be on his guard against its drawbacks in himself. In reading
the Life of Lord Althorp the other day I was struck with the fact, for a fact, I think, it
evidently was, that England had owed one of her worthiest and most useful statesmen to a college
competition, which aroused him to a sense of his own powers, and of the duty of using them,
whereas he would otherwise never have risen above making betting books and chronicling the
performances of foxhounds. Perhaps about the worst consequence of the prize system, against
which, I have no doubt, your Instructor guards, is undue discouragement on the part of those
who do not win the prize. And now, Ladies and Gentlemen, I wish you were to receive your rewards
from a hand which would lend them any additional value. But though presented by me they have
been awarded by good judges; and as they have been awarded to you, I have no doubt you have
deserved them well.

THE ASCENT OF MAN.

Science and criticism have raised the veil of the Mosaic cosmogony and revealed to us the physical
origin of man. We see that, instead of being created out of the dust of the earth by Divine
fiat, he has in all probability been evolved out of it by a process of development through
a series of intermediate forms.

The discovery is, of course, unspeakably momentous. Among other things it seems to open to
us a new view of morality, and one which, if it is verified by further investigation, can hardly
fail to produce a great change in philosophy. Supposing that man has ascended from a lower
animal form, there appears to be ground at least for surmising that vice, instead of being
a diabolical inspiration or a mysterious element of human nature, is the remnant of the lower
animal not yet eliminated; while virtue is the effort, individual and collective, by which
that remnant is being gradually worked off. The acknowledged connection of virtue with the
ascendency of the social over the selfish desires and tendencies seems to correspond with this
view; the nature of the lower animals being, so far as we can see, almost entirely selfish,
and admitting no regard even for the present interests of their kind, much less for its interests
in the future. The doubtful qualities, and "last infirmities of noble minds," such as ambition
and the love of fame, in which the selfish element is mingled with one not wholly selfish,
and which commend themselves at least by their refinement, as contrasted with the coarseness
of the merely animal vices, may perhaps be regarded as belonging to the class of phenomena
quaintly designated by some writers as "pointer facts," and as marking the process of transition.
In what morality consists, no one has yet succeeded in making clear. Mr. Sidgwick's recent
criticism of the various theories leads to the conviction that not one of them affords a satisfactory
basis for a practical system of ethics. If our lower nature can be traced to an animal origin,
and can be shown to be in course of elimination, however slow and interrupted, this at all
events will be a solid fact, and one which must be the starting-point of any future system
of ethics. Light would be at once thrown by such a discovery on some parts of the subject which
have hitherto been involved in impenetrable darkness. Of the vice of cruelty for example no
rational account, we believe, has yet been given; it is connected with no human appetite, and
seems to gratify no human object of desire; but if we can be shown to have inherited it from
animal progenitors, the mystery of its existence is at least in part explained. In the event
of this surmise being substantiated, moral phantasms, with their mediaeval trappings, would
for ever disappear; individual responsibility would be reduced within reasonable limits; the
difficulty of the question respecting free will would shrink to comparatively narrow proportions;
but it does not seem likely that the love of virtue and the hatred of vice would be diminished;
on the contrary, it seems likely that they would be practically intensified, while a more practical
direction would certainly be given to the science of ethics as a system of moral training and
a method of curing moral disease.

It is needless to say how great has been the influence of the doctrine of Evolution, or rather
perhaps of the method of investigation to which it has given birth, upon the study of history,
especially the history of institutions. Our general histories will apparently have to be almost
rewritten from that point of view. It is only to be noted, with regard to the treatment of
history, that the mere introduction of a physical nomenclature, however elaborate and apparently
scientific, does not make anything physical which before was not so, or exclude from human
actions, of which history is the aggregate, any element not of a physical kind. But a little
reflection suggests to us that such a philosophy is vitiated by the assumption involved in
the word "matter," and that the philosophy of history is in fact left exactly where it was
before. The superior complexity of high civilization is a familiar social fact which gains
nothing in clearness by the importation of mechanical or physiological terms.

We must also be permitted to bear in mind that evolution, though it may explain everything
else, cannot explain itself. What is the origin of the movement, and by what power the order
of development is prescribed, are questions yet unsolved by physical science. That the solution,
if it could be supplied, would involve anything arbitrary, miraculous, or at variance with
the observed order of things, need not be assumed; but it might open a new view of the universe,
and dissipate for ever the merely mechanical accounts of it. In the meantime we may fairly
enter a caveat against the tacit insinuation of an unproved solution. Science can apparently
give no reason for assuming that the first cause, and that which gives the law to development,
is a blind force rather than an archetypal idea. The only origination within our experience
is that of human action, where the cause is an idea. Science herself, in fact, constantly assumes
an analogous cause for the movements of the universe in her use of the word "law," which necessarily
conveys the notion, not merely of observed co-existence and sequence, but of the intelligent
and consistent action of a higher power, on which we rely in reasoning from the past to the
future, as we do upon consistency in the settled conduct of a man.

Unspeakably momentous, however, we once more admit, the discovery is, and great is the debt
of gratitude due to its illustrious authors. Yet it seems not unreasonable to ask whether in
some respects we are not too much under its immediate influence, and whether the revolution
of thought, though destined ultimately to be vast, may not at present have somewhat overpassed
its bounds. Is it not possible that the physical origin of man may be just now occupying too
large a space in our minds compared with his ulterior development and his final destiny? With
our eyes fixed on the "Descent," newly disclosed to us, may we not be losing sight of the Ascent
of man?

There seems in the first place, to be a tendency to treat the origin of a being as finally
decisive of its nature and destiny. From the language sometimes used, we should almost suppose
that rudiments alone were real, and that all the rest was mere illusion. An eminent writer
on the antiquities of jurisprudence intimates his belief that the idea of human brotherhood
is not coeval with the race, and that primitive communities were governed by sentiments of
a very different kind. His words are at once pounced upon as a warrant for dismissing the idea
of human brotherhood from our minds, and substituting for it some other social principles,
the character of which has not yet been definitely explained, though it is beginning in some
quarters pretty distinctly to appear. But surely this is not reasonable. There can be no reason
why the first estate of man, which all allow to have been his lowest estate, should claim the
prerogative of furnishing his only real and indefeasible principles of action. Granting that
the idea of human brotherhood was not aboriginal--granting that it came into the world at a
comparatively late period, still it has come, and having come, it is as real and seems as much
entitled to consideration as inter-tribal hostility and domestic despotism were in their own
day. That its advent has not been unattended by illusions and aberrations is a fact which does
not cancel its title to real existence under the present conditions, and with the present lights
of society, any more than in annuls the great effects upon the actions of men and the course
of history which the idea has undeniably produced. Human brotherhood was not a part of a primaeval
revelation; it may not have been an original institution; but it seems to be a real part of
a development, and it may be a part of a plan. That the social principles of certain anti-
philanthropic works are identical with those which governed the actions of mankind in a primaeval
and rudimentary state, when man had only just emerged from the animal, and have been since
worked off by the foremost races in the course of development, is surely rather an argument
against the paramount and indefeasible authority of those principles than in favour of it.
It tends rather to show that their real character is that of a relapse, or, as the physiologists
call it, a reversion. When there is a vast increase of wealth, of sensual enjoyment, and of
the selfishness which is apt to attend them, it is not marvellous that such reversions should
occur.

Another eminent writer appears to think that he has put an end to metaphysical theology, and
perhaps to metaphysics and theology altogether, by showing that "being," and the cognate words,
originally denoted merely physical perceptions. But so, probably, did all language. So did
"spirit," so did "geist," so did "power," so did even "sweet reasonableness," and "the not
us which makes for righteousness." Other perceptions or ideas have gradually come, and are
now denoted by the words which at first denoted physical perceptions only. Why have not these
last comers as good a claim to existence as the first? Suppose the intellectual nature of man
has unfolded, and been brought, as it conceivably may, into relations with something in the
universe beyond the mere indications of the five bodily senses--why are we bound to mistrust
the results of this unfolding? We might go still further back, and still lower, than to language
denoting merely physical perceptions. We might go back to inarticulate sounds and signs; but
this does not invalidate the reality of the perceptions afterwards expressed in articulate
language. It seems not very easy to distinguish, in point of trustworthiness of source, between
the principles of metaphysics and the first principles of mathematics, or to say, if we accept
the deductions in one case, why we should not accept them in the other. It is conceivable at
least, we venture to repeat, that the development of man's intellectual nature may have enabled
him to perceive other things than those which he perceives by means of his five bodily senses;
and metaphysics, once non-existent, may thus have come into legitimate existence. Man, if the
doctrine of evolution is true, was once a creature with only bodily senses; nay, at a still
earlier stage, he was matter devoid even of bodily sense; now he has arrived--through the exercise
of his bodily senses it may be--at something beyond bodily sense, at such notions as being,
essence, existence: he reasons upon these notions, and extends the scope of his once merely
physical vocabulary so as to comprehend them. Why should he not? If we are to be anchored hard
and fast to the signification of primaeval language, how are we to obtain an intellectual basis
for "the not us which makes for righteousness?" Do not the anti-metaphysicists themselves unconsciously
metaphysicize? Does not their fundamental assumption--that the knowledge received through our
bodily senses alone is trustworthy--involve an appeal to a mental necessity as much as anything
in metaphysics, whether the mental necessity in this case be real or not?

Again, the great author of the Evolution theory himself, in his Descent of Man, has given us
an account of morality which suggests a remark of the same kind. He seems to have come to the
conclusion that what is called our moral sense is merely an indication of the superior permanency
of social compared with personal impressions. Morality, if we take his explanation as complete
and final, is reduced to tribal self-preservation subtilized into etiquette; an etiquette which,
perhaps, a sceptical voluptuary, wishing to remove the obstacles to a life of enjoyment, might
think himself not unreasonable in treating as an illusion. This, so far as appears, is the
explanation offered of moral life, with all its beauty, its tenderness, its heroism, its self-
sacrifice; to say nothing of spiritual life with its hopes and aspirations, its prayers and
fanes. Such an account even of the origin of morality seems rather difficult to receive. Surely,
even in their most rudimentary condition, virtue and vice must have been distinguished by some
other characteristic than the relative permanency of two different sets of impressions. There
is a tendency, we may venture to observe, on the part of eminent physicists, when they have
carefully investigated and explained what seems to them the most important and substantial
subjects of inquiry, to proffer less careful explanations of matters which to them seem secondary
and less substantial, though possibly to an intelligence surveying the drama of the world from
without the distinctly human portion of it might appear more important than the rest. Eminent
physicists have been known, we believe, to account summarily for religion as a surviving reminiscence
of the serpent which attacked the ancestral ape and the tree which sheltered him from the attack,
so that Newton's religious belief would be a concomitant of his remaining trace of a tail.
It was assumed that primaeval religion was universally the worship of the serpent and of the
tree. This assumption was far from being correct; but, even if it had been correct, the theory
based on it would surely have been a very summary account of the phenomena of religious life.

However, supposing the account of the origin of the moral sense and of moral life, given in
The Descent of Man, to be true, it is an account of the origin only. Though profoundly significant,
as well as profoundly interesting, it is not more significant, compared with the subsequent
development, than is the origin of physical life compared with the subsequent history of living
beings. Suppose a mineralogist or a chemist were to succeed in discovering the exact point
at which inorganic matter gave birth to the organic; his discovery would be momentous and would
convey to us a most distinct assurance of the method by which the governing power of the universe
works: but would it qualify the mineralogist or the chemist to give a full account of all the
diversities of animal life, and of the history of man? Heroism, self- sacrifice, the sense
of moral beauty, the refined affections of civilized men, philanthropy, the desire of realizing
a high moral ideal, whatever else they may be, are not tribal self-preservation subtilized
into etiquette; nor are they adequately explained by reference to the permanent character of
one set of impressions and the occasional character of another set. Between the origin of moral
life and its present manifestation has intervened something so considerable as to baffle any
anticipation of the destiny of humanity which could have been formed for a mere inspection
of the rudiments. We may call this intervening force circumstance, if we please, provided we
remember that calling it circumstance does not settle its nature, or exclude the existence
of a power acting through circumstance as the method of fulfilling a design.

Whatever things may have been in their origin, they are what they are, both in themselves and
in regard to their indications respecting other beings or influences the existence of which
may be implied in theirs. The connection between the embryo and the adult man, with his moral
sense and intelligence, and all that these imply, is manifest, as well as the gradual evolution
of the one out of the other, and a conclusive argument is hence derived against certain superstitions
or fantastic beliefs; but the embryo is not a man, neither is the man an embryo. A physiologist
sets before us a set of plates showing the similarity between the embryo of Newton and that
of his dog Diamond. The inference which he probably expects us to draw is that there is no
essential difference between the philosopher and the dog. But surely it is at least as logical
to infer, that the importance of the embryo and the significance of embryological similarities
may not be so great as the physiologist is disposed to believe.

So with regard to human institutions. The writer on legal antiquities before mentioned finds
two sets of institutions which are now directly opposed to each other, and between the respective
advocates of which a controversy has been waged. He proposes to terminate that controversy
by showing that though the two rival systems in their development are so different, in their
origin they were the same. This seems very clearly to bring home to us the fact that, important
as the results of an investigation of origins are, there is still a limit to their importance.

Again, while we allow no prejudice to stand in the way of our acceptance of Evolution, we may
fairly call upon Evolution to be true to itself. We may call upon it to recognise the possibility
of development in the future as well as the fact of development in the past, and not to shut
up the hopes and aspirations of our race in a mundane egg because the mundane egg happens to
be the special province of the physiologist. The series of developments has proceeded from
the inorganic to the organic, from the organic upwards to moral and intellectual life. Why
should it be arrested there? Why should it not continue its upward course and arrive at a development
which might be designated as spiritual life? Surely the presumption is in favour of a continued
operation of the law. Nothing can be more arbitrary than the proceeding of Comte, who, after
tracing humanity, as he thinks, through the Theological and Metaphysical stages into the Positive,
there closes the series and assumes that the Positive stage is absolutely final. How can he
be sure that it will not be followed, for example, by one in which man will apprehend and commune
with the Ruler of the Universe, not through mythology or dogma, but through Science? He may
have had no experience of such a phase of human existence, nor may he be able at present distinctly
to conceive it. But had he lived in the Theological or the Metaphysical era he would have been
equally without experience of the Positive, and have had the same difficulty in conceiving
its existence. His finality is an assumption apparently without foundation.

By Spiritual Life we do not mean the life of a disembodied spirit, or anything supernatural
and anti-scientific, but a life the motives of which are beyond the world of sense, and the
aim of which is an ideal, individual and collective, which may be approached but cannot be
attained under our present conditions, and the conception of which involves the hope of an
ulterior and better state. The Positivists themselves often use the word "spiritual," and it
may be assumed that they mean by it something higher in the way of aspiration than what is
denoted by the mere term moral, though they may not look forward to any other state of being
than this.

We do not presume, of course, in these few pages to broach any great question, our only purpose
being to point out a possible aberration or exaggeration of the prevailing school of thought.
But it must surely be apparent to the moral philosopher, no less than to the student of history,
that at the time of the appearance of Christianity, a crisis took place in the development
of humanity which may be not unfitly described as the commencement of Spiritual Life. The change
was not abrupt. It had been preceded and heralded by the increasing spirituality of the Hebrew
religion, especially in the teachings of the prophets, by the spiritualization of Greek philosophy,
and perhaps by the sublimation of Roman duty; but it was critical and decided. So much is admitted
even by those who deplore the advent of Christianity as a fatal historical catastrophe, which
turned away men's minds from the improvement of their material condition to the pursuit of
a chimerical ideal. Faith, Hope, and Charity, by which the Gospel designates the triple manifestation
of spiritual life, are new names for new things; for it is needless to say that in classical
Greek the words have nothing like their Gospel signification. It would be difficult, we believe,
to find in any Greek or Roman writer an expression of hope for the future of humanity. The
nearest approach to such a sentiment, perhaps, is in the political Utopianism of Plato. The
social ideal is placed in a golden age which has irretrievably passed away. Virgil's Fourth
Eclogue, even if it were a more serious production than it is, seems to refer to nothing more
than the pacification of the Roman Empire and the restoration of its material prosperity by
Augustus. But Christianity, in the Apocalypse, at once breaks forth into a confident prediction
of the ultimate triumph of good over evil, and of the realization of the ideal.

The moral aspiration--the striving after an ideal of character, personal and social, the former
in and through the latter--seems to be the special note of the life, institutions, literature,
and art of Christendom. Christian Fiction, for example, is pervaded by an interest in the development
and elevation of character for which we look in vain in the Arabian Nights, where there is
no development of character, nothing but incident and adventure. Christian sculpture, inferior
perhaps in workmanship to that of Phidias, derives its superior interest from its constant
suggestion of a spiritual ideal. The Christian lives, in a manner, two lives, an outward one
of necessary conformity to the fashions and ordinances of the present world; an inner one of
protest against the present world and anticipation of an ideal state of things; and this duality
is reproduced in the separate existence of the spiritual society or Church, submitting to existing
social arrangements, yet struggling to transcend them, and to transmute society by the realization
of the Christian's social ideal. With this is necessarily connected a readiness to sacrifice
present to future good, and the interests of the present to future good, and the interests
of the present world to those of the world of hope. Apart from this, the death of Christ (and
that of Socrates also), instead of being an instance of "sweet reasonableness," would be out
of the pale of reason altogether.

It is perhaps the absence of an ideal that prevents our feeling satisfied with Utilitarianism.
The Utilitarian definition of morality has been so much enlarged, and made to coincide so completely
with ordinary definitions in point of mere extent, that the difference between Utilitarianism
and ordinary Moral Philosophy seems to have become almost verbal. Yet we feel that there is
something wanting. There is no ideal of character. And where there is no ideal of character
there can hardly be such a thing as a sense of moral beauty. A Utilitarian perhaps would say
that perfect utility is beauty. But whatever may be the case with material beauty, moral beauty
at all events seems to contain an element not identical with the satisfaction produced by the
appearance of perfect utility, but suggestive of an unfulfilled ideal.

Suppose spiritual life necessarily implies the expectation of a Future State, has physical
science anything to say against that expectation? Physical Science is nothing more than the
perceptions of our five bodily senses registered and methodized. But what are these five senses?
According to physical science itself, nerves in a certain stage of evolution. Why then should
it be assumed that their account of the universe, or of our relations to it, is exhaustive
and final? Why should it be assumed that these are the only possible organs of perception,
and that no other faculties or means of communication with the universe can ever in the course
of evolution be developed in man? Around us are animals absolutely unconscious, so far as we
can discern, of that universe which Science has revealed to us. A sea anemone, if it can reflect,
probably feels as confident that it perceives everything capable of being perceived as the
man of science. The reasonable supposition, surely, is that though Science, so far as it goes,
is real, and the guide of our present life, its relation to the sum of things is not much more
considerable than that of the perceptions of the lower orders of animals. That our notions
of the universe have been so vastly enlarged by the mere invention of astronomical instruments
is enough in itself to suggest the possibility of further and infinitely greater enlargement.
To our bodily senses, no doubt, and to physical science, which is limited by them, human existence
seems to end with death; but if there is anything in our nature which tells us, with a distinctness
and persistency equal to those of our sensible perceptions, that hope and responsibility extend
beyond death, why is this assurance not as much to be trusted as that of the bodily sense itself?
There is apparently no ultimate criterion of truth, whether physical or moral, except our inability,
constituted as we are to believe otherwise; and this criterion seems to be satisfied by a universal
and ineradicable moral conviction as well as by a universal and irresistible impression of sense.

We are enjoined, some times with a vehemence approaching that of ecclesiastical anathema, to
refuse to consider anything which lies beyond the range of experience. By experience is meant
the perceptions of our bodily senses, the absolute completeness and finality of which, we must
repeat, is an assumption, the warrant for which must at all events be produced from other authority
than that of the senses themselves. On this ground we are called upon to discard, as worthy
of nothing but derision, the ideas of eternity and infinity. But to dislodge these ideas from
our minds is impossible; just as impossible as it is to dislodge any idea that has entered
through the channels of the senses; and this being so, it is surely conceivable that they may
not be mere illusions, but real extensions of our intelligence beyond the domain of mere bodily
sense, indicating an upward progress of our nature. Of course if these ideas correspond to
reality, physical science, though true as far as it goes, cannot be the whole truth, or even
bear any considerable relation to the whole truth, since it necessarily presents Being as limited
by space and time.

Whither obedience to the dictates of the higher part of our nature will ultimately carry us,
we may not be able, apart from Revelation, to say; but there seems no substantial reason for
refusing to believe that it carries us towards a better state. Mere ignorance, arising from
the imperfection of our perceptive powers, of the mode in which we shall pass into that better
state, or of its precise relation to our present existence, cannot cancel an assurance, otherwise
valid, of our general destiny. A transmutation of humanity, such as we can conceive to be brought
about by the gradual prevalence of higher motives of action, and the gradual elimination thereby
of what is base and brutish, is surely no more incredible than the actual development of humanity,
as it is now, out of a lower animal form or out of inorganic matter.

What the bearing of the automatic theory of human nature would be upon the hopes and aspirations
of man, or on moral philosophy generally, it might be difficult, no doubt, to say. But has
any one of the distinguished advocates of the automatic theory ever acted on it, or allowed
his thoughts to be really ruled by it for a moment? What can be imagined more strange than
an automaton suddenly becoming conscious of its own automatic character, reasoning and debating
about it automatically, and coming automatically to the conclusion that the automatic theory
of itself is true? Nor is there any occasion here to entangle ourselves in the controversy
about Necessarianism. If the race can act progressively on higher and more unselfish motives,
as history proves to be the fact, there can be nothing in the connection between our actions
and their antecedents inconsistent with the ascent of man. Jonathan Edwards is undoubtedly
right in maintaining that there is a connection between every human action and its antecedents.
But the nature of the connection remains a mystery. We learn its existence not from inspection,
but from consciousness, and this same consciousness tells us that the connection is not such
as to preclude the existence of liberty of choice, moral aspiration, moral effort, moral responsibility,
which are the contradictories of Necessarianism. The terms cause and effect, and others of
that kind, which the imperfection of psychological language compels us to use in speaking of
the mental connection between action and its antecedents, are steeped from their employment
in connection with physical science, in physical association, and the import with them into
the moral sphere the notion of physical enchainment, for which the representations of consciousness,
the sole authority, afford no warrant whatever.

Another possible source of serious aberration, we venture to think, will be found in the misapplication
of the doctrine of survivals. Some lingering remains of its rudimentary state in the shape
of primaeval superstitions or fancies continue to adhere to a developed, and matured belief;
and hence it is inferred, or at least the inference is suggested, that the belief itself is
nothing but a "survival," and destined in the final triumph of reason to pass away. The belief
in the immortality of the soul, for example, is found still connected in the lower and less
advanced minds with primaeval superstitions and fancies about ghosts and other physical manifestations
of the spirit world, as well as with funeral rites and modes of burial indicating irrational
notions as to the relations of the body to the spirit. But neither these nor any special ideas
as to the nature of future rewards and punishments or the mode of transition from the present
to the future state, are really essential parts of the belief. They are the rudimentary imaginations
and illusions of which the rational belief is gradually working itself clear. The basis of
the rational belief in the immortality of the soul, or, to speak more correctly, in the continuance
of our spiritual existence after death is the conviction, common, so far as we know, to all
the higher portions of humanity, and apparently ineradicable, that our moral responsibility
extends beyond the grave; that we do not by death terminate the consequences of our actions,
or our relations to those to whom we have done good or evil; and that to die the death of the
righteous is better than to have lived a life of pleasure even with the approbation of an undiscerning
world. So far from growing weaker, this conviction appears to grow practically stronger among
the most highly educated and intelligent of mankind, though they may have cast off the last
remnant of primitive or medieval superstition, and though they may have ceased to profess belief
in any special form of the doctrine. The Comtists certainly have not got rid of it, since they
have devised a subjective immortality with a retributive distinction between the virtuous and
the wicked; to say nothing of their singular proposal that the dead should be formally judged
by the survivors, and buried, according to the judgment passed upon them, in graves of honour
or disgrace.

With regard to religion generally there is the same tendency to exaggerate the significance
of "survivals," and to neglect, on the other hand, the phenomena of disengagement. Because
the primitive fables and illusions which long adhere to religion are undeniably dying out,
it is asserted, or suggested, that religion itself is dying. Religion is identified with mythology.
But mythology is merely the primaeval matrix of religion. Mythology is the embodiment of man's
childlike notions as to the universe in which he finds himself, and the powers which for good
or evil influence his lot; and, when analysed, it is found beneath all its national variations
to be merely based upon a worship of the sun, the moon, and the forces of Nature. Religion
is the worship and service of a moral God and a God who is worshipped and served by virtue.
We can distinctly see, in Greek literature for instance, religion disengaging itself from mythology.
In Homer the general element is mythology, capable of being rendered more or less directly
into simple nature- worship, childish, non-moral, and often immoral. But when Hector says that
he holds omens of no account, and that the best omen of all is to fight for one's country,
he shows an incipient reliance on a Moral Power. The disengagement of religion from mythology
is of course much further advanced and more manifest when we come to Plato; while the religious
faith, instead of being weaker, has become infinitely stronger, and is capable of supporting
the life and the martyrdom of Socrates. When Socrates and Plato reject the Homeric mythology,
it is not because they are sceptics but because Homer is a child.

But it is in the Old Testament that the process of disengagement and the growth of a moral
out of a ceremonial religion are most distinctly seen:--

  "'Wherewith shall I come before Jahveh,
  And bow myself down before God on high?

Here no doubt is a belief in the efficacy of sacrifice, even of human sacrifice, even of the
sacrifice of the first-born. But it is a receding and dying belief; while the belief in the
power of justice, mercy, humility, moral religion in short, is prevailing over it and taking
its place.

So it is again in the New Testament with regard to spiritual life and the miraculous. Spiritual
life commenced in a world full of belief in the miraculous, and it did not at once break with
that belief. But it threw the miraculous into the background and anticipated its decline, presaging
that it would lose its importance and give place finally to the spiritual. Clearly the writer
of this believes in prophecies, in tongues, in mysteries. But clearly, also, he regards them
as both secondary and transient, while he regards charity as primary and eternal.

It may be added that the advent of spiritual life did at once produce a change in the character
of the miraculous itself, divested it of its fantastic extravagance, and infused into it a
moral element. The Gospel miracles, almost without exception, have a moral significance, and
can without incongruity be made the text of moral discourses to this day. An attempt to make
Hindoo or Greek miracles the text of moral discourses would produce strange results.

Compared with the tract of geological, and still more with that of astronomical time, spiritual
life has not been long in our world; and we need not wonder if the process of disengagement
from the environments of the previous state of humanity is as yet far from complete Political
religions and persecution, for instance, did not come into the world with Christ; they are
survivals of an earlier stage of human progress. The Papacy, the great political Church of
mediaeval Europe, is the historical continuation of the State religion of Rome and the Pontificate
of the Roman emperors. The Greek Church is the historical continuation of the Eastern offset
of the same system. The national State Churches are the historical continuations of the tribal
religions and priesthoods of the Northern tribes. We talk of the conversion of the Barbarians,
but in point of fact it was the chief of the tribe that was converted, or rather that changed
his religious allegiance, sometimes by treaty (as in the case of Guthrum), and carried his
tribe with him into the allegiance of the new God. Hence the new religion, like the old, was
placed upon the footing of a tribal, and afterwards of a state, religion; heresy was treason;
and the state still lent the aid of the secular arm to the national priesthood for the repression
of rebellion against the established faith. But since the Reformation the process of disengagement
has been rapidly going on; and in the North American communities, which are the latest developments
of humanity, the connection between Church and State has ceased to exist, without any diminution
of the strength of the religious sentiment

Whether there is anything deserving of attention in these brief remarks or not, one thing may
safely be affirmed: it is time that the question as to the existence of a rational basis for
religion and the reality of spiritual life should be studied, not merely with a view of overthrowing
the superstitions of the past, but of providing, if possible, a faith for the present and the
future. The battle of criticism and science against superstition has been won, as every open-minded
observer of the contest must be aware, though the remnants of the broken host still linger
on the field. It is now time to consider whether religion must perish with superstition, or
whether the death of superstition may not be the new birth of religion. Religion survived the
fall of Polytheism; it is surely conceivable that it may survive the fall of Anthropomorphism,
and that the desperate struggle which is being waged about the formal belief in "Personality,"
may be merely the sloughing off of something that when it is gone, will be seen to have not
been vital to religion.

There are some who would deter us from inquiring into anything beyond the range of sensible
experience, and especially from any inquiry into the future existence of the soul, which they
denounce as utterly unpractical, and compare with obsolete and fruitless inquiries into the
state of the soul before birth. We have already challenged the exclusive claim of the five
bodily senses to be the final sources of knowledge; and we may surely add that it is at least
as practical to inquire into the destiny as it is to inquire into the origin of man.

If the belief in God and in a Future State is true, it will prevail. The cloud will pass away
and the sun will shine out again. But in the meantime society may have "a bad quarter of an
hour." Without exaggerating the influence of the belief in Future Reward and Punishment, or
of any form of it, on the actions of ordinary men, we may safely say that the sense of responsibility
to a higher power, and of the constant presence of an all-seeing Judge, has exercised an influence,
the removal of which would be greatly felt. Materialism has in fact already begun to show its
effects on human conduct and on society. They may perhaps be more visible in communities where
social conduct depends greatly on individual conviction and motive, than in communities which
are more ruled by tradition and bound together by strong class organizations; though the decay
of morality will perhaps be ultimately more complete and disastrous in the latter than in the
former. God and future retribution being out of the question, it is difficult to see what can
restrain the selfishness of an ordinary man, and induce him, in the absence of actual coercion,
to sacrifice his personal desires to the public good. The service of Humanity is the sentiment
of a refined mind conversant with history; within no calculable time is it likely to overrule
the passions and direct the conduct of the mass. And after all, without God or spirit, what
is "Humanity"? One school of science reckons a hundred and fifty different species of man.
What is the bond of unity between all these species and wherein consists the obligation to
mutual love and help? A zealous servant of science told Agassiz that the age of real civilization
would have begun when you could go out and shoot a man for scientific purposes. Apparent dirae
facies. We begin to perceive, looming through the mist, the lineaments of an epoch of selfishness
compressed by a government of force.

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTES FOR RELIGION

There appears to be a connection between the proposed substitutes for religion and the special
training of their several authors. Historians tender us the worship of Humanity, professors
of physical science tender us Cosmic Emotion. Theism might almost retort the apologue of the
specter of the Brocken.

The only organized cultus without a God, at present before us, is that of Comte. This in all
its parts--its high priesthood, its hierarchy, its sacraments, its calendar, its hagiology,
its literary canon, its ritualism, and we may add, in its fundamentally intolerant and inquisitorial
character--is an obvious reproduction of the Church of Rome, with humanity in place of God,
great men in place of the saints, the Founder of Comtism in place of the Founder of Christianity,
and even a sort of substitute for the Virgin in the shape of womanhood typified by Clotilde
de Vaux. There is only just the amount of difference which would be necessary in order to escape
servile imitation. We have ourselves witnessed a case of alternation between the two systems
which testified to the closeness of their affinity. The Catholic Church has acted on the imagination
of Comte at least as powerfully as Sparta acted on that of Plato. Nor is Comtism, any more
than Plato's Republic and other Utopias, exempt from the infirmity of claiming finality for
a flight of the individual imagination. It would shut up mankind for ever in a stereotyped
organization which is the vision of a particular thinker. In this respect it seems to us to
be at a disadvantage compared with Christianity, which, as presented, in the Gospels, does
not pretend to organize mankind ecclesiastically or politically, but simply supplies a new
type of character, and a new motive power, leaving government, ritual and organization of every
kind to determine themselves from age to age. Comte's prohibition of inquiry into the composition
of the stars, which his priesthood, had it been installed in power, would perhaps have converted
into a compulsory article of faith, is only a specimen of his general tendency (the common
tendency, as we have said, of all Utopias) to impose on human progress the limits of his own
mind. Let his hierarchy become masters of the world, and the effect would probably be like
that produced by the ascendency of a hierarchy (enlightened no doubt for its time) in Egypt,
a brief start forward followed by consecrated immobility for ever.

Lareveillere Lepaux, a member of the French Directory, invented a new religion of Theo-philanthropy
which seems in fact to have been an organized Rousseauism. He wished to impose it on France
but finding that in spite of his passionate endeavours he made but little progress he sought
the advice of Talleyrand. "I am not surprised" said Talleyrand "at the difficulty you experience.
It is no easy matter to introduce a new religion. But I will tell you what I recommend you
to do. I recommend you to be crucified and to rise again on the third day." We cannot say whether
Lareveillere made any proselytes but if he did their number cannot have been much smaller than
the reputed number of the religious disciples of Comte. As a philosophy, Comtism has found
its place and exercised its share of influence among the philosophies of the time but as a
religious system it appears to make little way. It is the invention of a man not the spontaneous
expression of the beliefs and feelings of mankind. Any one with a tolerably lively imagination
might produce a rival system with as little practical effect. Roman Catholicism was at all
events a growth not an invention.

Cosmic Emotion, though it does not affect to be an organized system, is the somewhat sudden
creation of individual minds set at work apparently by the exigencies of a particular situation
and on that account suggestive prima facie of misgivings similar to those suggested by the
invention of Comte.

Now is the worship of Humanity or Cosmic Emotion really a substitute for religion? That is
the only question which we wish in these few pages to ask. We do not pretend here to inquire
what is or what is not true in itself.

Religion teaches that we have our being in a Power whose character and purposes are indicated
to us by our moral nature, in whom we are united and by the union made sacred to each other,
whose voice conscience however generated, is whose eye is always upon us, sees all our acts,
and sees them as they are morally, without reference to worldly success or to the opinion of
the world, to whom at death we return, and our relations to whom, together with his own nature,
are an assurance that according as we promote or fail to promote his design by self improvement
and the improvement of our kind, it will be well or ill for us in the sum of things. This is
a hypothesis evidently separable from belief in a revelation, and from any special theory respecting
the next world, as well as from all dogma and ritual. It may be true or false in itself, capable
of demonstration or incapable. We are concerned here solely with its practical efficiency,
compared with that of the proposed substitutes. It is only necessary to remark, that there
is nothing about the religious hypothesis as here stated, miraculous, supernatural, or mysterious,
except so far as those epithets may be applied to anything beyond the range of bodily sense,
say the influence of opinion or affection. A universe self-made, and without a God, is at least
as great a mystery as a universe with a God; in fact the very attempt to conceive it in the
mind produces a moral vertigo which is a bad omen for the practical success of Cosmic Emotion.

For this religion are the service and worship of Humanity likely to be a real equivalent in
any respect, as motive power, as restraint, or as comfort? Will the idea of life in God be
adequately replaced by that of an interest in the condition and progress of Humanity, as they
may affect us and be influenced by our conduct, together with the hope of human gratitude and
fear of human reprobation after death, which the Comtists endeavor to organize into a sort
of counterpart of the Day of Judgment?

It will probably be at once conceded that the answer must be in the negative as regards the
immediate future and the mass of mankind. The simple truths of religion are intelligible to
all, and strike all minds with equal force, though they may not have the same influence with
all moral natures. A child learns them perfectly at its mother's knee. Honest ignorance in
the mine, on the sea, at the forge, striving to do its coarse and perilous duty, performing
the lowliest functions of humanity, contributing in the humblest way to human progress, itself
scarcely sunned by a ray of what more cultivated natures would deem happiness, takes in as
fully as the sublimest philosopher the idea of a God who sees and cares for all, who keeps
account of the work well done or the kind act, marks the secret fault, and will hereafter make
up to duty for the hardness of its present lot. But a vivid interest--such an interest as will
act both as a restraint and as a comfort--in the condition and future of humanity can surely
exist only in those who have a knowledge of history sufficient to enable them to embrace the
unity of the past, and an imagination sufficiently cultivated to glow with anticipation of
the future. For the bulk of mankind the humanity worshippers point of view seems unattainable
at least within any calculable time.

As to posthumous reputation good or evil it is and always must be the appendage of a few marked
men. The plan of giving it substance by instituting separate burial places for the virtuous
and the wicked is perhaps not very seriously proposed. Any such plan involves the fallacy of
a sharp division where there is no clear moral line besides postulating not only an unattainable
knowledge of men's actions but a knowledge still more manifestly unattainable of their hearts.
Yet we cannot help thinking that on the men of intellect to whose teaching the world is listening
this hope of posthumous reputation, or to put it more plainly, of living in the gratitude and
affection of their kind by means of their scientific discoveries and literary works exercises
an influence of which they are hardly conscious, it prevents them from fully feeling the void
which the annihilation of the hope of future existence leaves in the hearts of ordinary men.

Besides so far as we are aware no attempt has yet been made to show us distinctly what humanity
is and wherein its holiness consists. If the theological hypothesis is true and all men are
united in God, humanity is a substantial reality, but otherwise we fail to see that it is any
thing more than a metaphysical abstraction converted into an actual entity by philosophers
who are not generally kind to metaphysics. Even the unity of the species is far from settled,
science still debates whether there is one race of men or whether there are more than a hundred.
Man acts on man no doubt, but he also acts on other animals, and other animals on him. Wherein
does the special unity or the special bond consist? Above all what constitutes the holiness?
Individual men are not holy, a large proportion of them are very much the reverse. Why is the
aggregate holy? Let the unit be a complex phenomenon, an organism or whatever name science
may give it, what multiple of it will be a rational object of worship?

For our own part we cannot conceive worship being offered by a sane worshipper to any but a
conscious being, in other words to a person. The fetish worshipper himself probably invests
his fetish with a vague personality such as would render it capable of propitiation. But how
can we invest with a collective personality the fleeting generations of mankind? Even the sum
of mankind is never complete, much less are the units blended into a personal whole, or as
it has been called a colossal man.

There is a gulf here, as it seems to us, which cannot be bridged, and can barely be hidden
from view by the retention of religious phraseology. In truth, the anxious use of that phraseology
betrays weakness, since it shows that you cannot do without the theological associations which
cling inseparably to religious terms.

You look forward to a closer union, a more complete brotherhood of man, an increased sacredness
of the human relation. Some things point that way; some things point the other way. Brotherhood
has hardly a definite meaning without a father; sacredness can hardly be predicated without
anything which consecrates. We can point to an eminent writer who tells you that he detests
the idea of brotherly love altogether; that there are many of his kind whom, so far from loving,
he hates, and that he would like to write his hatred with a lash upon their backs. Look again
at the severe Prussianism which betrays itself in the New Creed of Strauss. Look at the oligarchy
of enlightenment and enjoyment which Renan, in his Moral Reform of France, proposes to institute
for the benefit of a select circle, with sublime indifference to the lot of the vulgar, who,
he says, "must subsist on the glory and happiness of others." This does not look much like
a nearer approach to a brotherhood of man than is made by the Gospel. We are speaking, of course,
merely of the comparative moral efficiency of religion and the proposed substitutes for it,
apart from the influence exercised over individual conduct by the material needs and other
non-theological forces of society.

For the immortality of the individual soul, with the influences of that belief, we are asked
to substitute the immortality of the race. But here, in addition to the difficulty of proving
the union and intercommunion of all the members, we are met by the objection that unless we
live in God, the race, in all probability, is not immortal. That our planet and all it contains
will come to an end appears to be the decided opinion of science. This "holy" being, our relation
to which is to take the place of our relation to an Eternal Father, by the adoration of which
we are to be sustained and controlled, if it exist at all, is as ephemeral compared with eternity
as a fly. We shall be told that we ought to be content with an immortality extending through
tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, of years. To the argumentum ad verecundiam
there is no reply. But will this banish the thought of ultimate annihilation? Will it prevent
a man, when he is called upon to make some great sacrifice for the race, from saying to himself,
that, whether he makes the sacrifice or not, one day all will end in nothing?

Evidently these are points which must be made quite clear before you can, with any prospect
of success, call upon men either to regard Humanity with the same feelings with which they
have regarded God, or to give up their own interest or enjoyment for the future benefit of
the race. The assurance derived from the fondness felt by parents for their offspring, and
the self-denying efforts made for the good of children, will hardly carry us very far, even
supposing it certain that parental love would remain unaffected by the general change. It is
evidently a thing apart from the general love of Humanity. Nobody was ever more extravagantly
fond of his children, or made greater efforts for them, than Alexander Borgia.

It has been attempted, however, with all the fervour of conviction, and with all the force
of a powerful style, to make us see not only that we have this corporal immortality as members
of the "colossal man," but that we may look forward to an actual though impersonal existence
in the shape of the prolongation through all future time of the consequences of our lives.
It might with equal truth be said that we have enjoyed an actual though impersonal existence
through all time past in our antecedents. But neither in its consequences nor in its antecedents
can anything be said to live except by a figure. The characters and actions of men surely will
never be influenced by such a fanciful use of language as this! Our being is consciousness;
with consciousness our being ends, though our physical forces may be conserved, and traces
of our conduct--traces utterly indistinguishable--may remain. That with which we are not concerned
cannot affect us either presently or by anticipation; and with that of which we shall never
be conscious, we shall never feel that we are concerned. Perhaps if the authors of this new
immortality would tell us what they understand by non-existence, we might be led to value more
highly by contrast the existence which they propose for a soul when it has ceased to think
or feel, and for an organism when it has been scattered to the winds.

They would persuade us that their impersonal and unconscious immortality is a brighter hope
than an eternity of personal and conscious existence, the very thought of which they say is
torture. This assumes, what there seems to be no ground for assuming, that eternity is an endless
extension of time; and, in the same way, that infinity is a boundless space. It is more natural
to conceive of them as emancipation respectively from time and space, and from the conditions
which time and space involve; and among the conditions of time may apparently be reckoned the
palling of pleasure or of existence by mere temporal protraction. Even as we are, sensual pleasure
palls; so does the merely intellectual: but can the same be said of the happiness of virtue
and affection? It is urged, too, that by exchanging the theological immortality for one of
physical and social consequences, we get rid of the burden of self, which otherwise we should
drag for ever. But surely in this there is a confusion of self with selfishness. Selfishness
is another name for vice. Self is merely consciousness. Without a self, how can there be self-sacrifice?
How can the most unselfish motive exist if there is nothing to be moved? "He that findeth his
life, shall lose it; and he that loseth his life, shall find it," is not a doctrine of selfishness,
but it implies a self. We have been rebuked in the words of Frederick to his grenadiers--"Do
you want to live for ever?" The grenadiers might have answered, "Yes; and therefore we are
ready to die."

It is not when we think of the loss of anything to which a taint of selfishness can adhere--it
is not even when we think of intellectual effort cut short for ever by death just as the intellect
has ripened and equipped itself with the necessary knowledge--that the nothingness of this
immortality of conservated forces is most keenly felt: it is when we think of the miserable
end of affection. How much comfort would it afford anyone bending over the deathbed of his
wife to know that forces set free by her dissolution will continue to mingle impersonally and
indistinguishably with forces set free by the general mortality? Affection, at all events,
requires personality. One cannot love a group of consequences, even supposing that the filiation
could be distinctly presented to the mind. Pressed by the hand of sorrow craving for comfort,
this Dead Sea fruit crumbles into ashes, paint it with eloquence as you will.

Humanity, it seems to us, is a fundamentally Christian idea, connected with the Christian view
of the relations of men to their common Father and of their spiritual union in the Church.
In the same way the idea of the progress of Humanity seems to us to have been derived from
the Christian belief in the coming of the Kingdom of God through the extension of the Church,
and to that final triumph of good over evil foretold in the imagery of the Apocalypse. At least
the founders of the Religion of Humanity will admit that the Christian Church is the matrix
of theirs so much their very nomenclature proves and we would fain ask them to review the process
of disengagement and see whether the essence has not been left behind.

No doubt there are influences at work in modern civilisation which tend to the strengthening
of the sentiment of humanity by making men more distinctly conscious of their position as members
of a race. On the other hand the unreflecting devotion of the tribesman which held together
primitive societies dies. Man learns to reason and calculate and when he is called upon to
immolate himself to the common interest of the race he will consider what the common interest
of the race when he is dead and gone will be to him and whether he will ever be repaid for
his sacrifice.

Of Cosmic Emotion it will perhaps be fair to say that it is proposed as a substitute for religious
emotion rather than as a substitute for religion since nothing has been said about embodying
it in a cult. It comes to us commended by glowing quotations from Mr. Swinburne and Walt Whitman
and we cannot help admitting that for common hearts it stands in need of the commendation.
The transfer of affection from an all loving Father to an adamantine universe is a process
for which we may well seek all the aid that the witchery of poetry can supply. Unluckily we
are haunted by the consciousness that the poetry itself is blindly ground out by the same illimitable
mill of evolution which grinds out Virtue and affection. We are by no means sure that we understand
what Cosmic Emotion is even after leading an exposition of its nature by no ungifted hand.
Its symbola so to speak are the feelings produced by the two objects of Kant's peculiar reverence--the
stars of heaven and the moral faculty of man. But after all these are only like anything else
aggregations of molecules in a certain stage of evolution. To the unscientific eye they may
be awful because they are mysterious, but let science analyse them and then awfulness disappears.
If the interaction of all parts of the material universe is complete we fail to see why one
object or one feeling is more cosmic than another. However we will not dwell on that which
as we have already confessed we do not feel sure that we rightly apprehend. What we do clearly
see is that to have cosmic emotion or cosmic anything you must have a cosmos. You must be assured
that the universe is a cosmos and not a chaos. And what assurance of this can materialism or
any non theological system give? Law is a theological term, it implies a lawgiver or a governing
intelligence of some kind. Science can tell us nothing but facts, single or accumulated as
experience, which would not make a law though they had been observed through myriads of years.
Law is a theological term, and cosmos is equally so, if it may not rather be said to be a Greek
name for the aggregate of laws. For order implies intelligent selection and arrangement. Our
idea of order would not be satisfied by a number of objects falling by mere chance into a particular
figure, however intricate and regular. All the arguments which have been used against design
seem to tell with equal force against order. We have no other universe wherewith we can compare
this, so as to assure ourselves that this universe is not a chaos, but a cosmos. Both on the
earth and in the heavens we see much that is not order, but disorder; not cosmos, but acosmia.
If we divine, nevertheless, that order reigns, and that there is design beneath the seemingly
undesigned, and good beneath the appearance of evil, it is by virtue of something not dreamed
of in the philosophy of materialism.

Have we really come to this, that the world has no longer any good reason for believing in
a God or a life beyond the grave? If so, it is difficult to deny that with regard to the great
mass of mankind up to this time Schopenhauer and the Pessimists are right, and existence has
been a cruel misadventure. The number of those who have suffered lifelong oppression, disease,
or want, who have died deaths of torture or perished miserably by war, is limited though enormous;
but probably there have been few lives in which the earthly good has not been outweighed by
the evil. The future may bring increased means of happiness, though those who are gone will
not be the better for them; but it will bring also increase of sensibility, and the consciousness
of hopeless imperfection and miserable futility will probably become a distinct and growing
cause of pain. It is doubtful even whether, after such a raising of Mokanna's veil, faith in
everything would not expire and human effort cease. Still we must face the situation: there
can be no use in self-delusion. In vain we shall seek to cheat our souls and to fill a void
which cannot be filled by the manufacture of artificial religions and the affectation of a
spiritual language to which, however persistently and fervently it may be used, no realities
correspond. If one of these cults could get itself established, in less than a generation it
would become hollower than the hollowest of ecclesiasticisms. Probably not a few of the highest
natures would withdraw themselves from the dreary round of self mockery by suicide, and if
a scientific priesthood attempted to close that door by sociological dogma or posthumous denunciation
the result would show the difference between the practical efficacy of a religion with a God
and that of a cult of "Humanity" or "Space."

Shadows and figments, as they appear to us to be in themselves these attempts to provide a
substitute for religion are of the highest importance, as showing that men of great powers
of mind, who have thoroughly broken loose not only from Christianity but from natural religion
and in some cases placed themselves in violent antagonism to both, are still unable to divest
themselves of the religious sentiment or to appease its craving for satisfaction. There being
no God, they find it necessary, as Voltaire predicted it would be, to invent one, not for the
purposes of police (they are far above such sordid Jesuitism), but as the solution of the otherwise
hopeless enigma of our spiritual nature. Science takes cognizance of all phenomena, and this
apparently ineradicable tendency of the human mind is a phenomenon like the rest. The thoroughgoing
Materialist, of course, escapes all these philosophical exigencies, but he does it by denying
Humanity as well as God and reducing the difference between the organism of the human animal
and that of any other animal to a mere question of complexity. Still, even in this quarter,
there has appeared of late a disposition to make concessions on the subject of human volition
hardly consistent with Materialism. Nothing can be more likely than that the impetus of great
discoveries has carried the discoverers too far.

Perhaps with the promptings of the religious sentiment there is combined a sense of the immediate
danger with which the failure of the religious sanction threatens social order and morality.
As we have said already, the men of whom we specially speak are far above anything like social
Jesuitism. We have not a doubt but they would regard with abhorrence any schemes of oligarchic
illuminism for guarding the pleasures of the few by politic deception of the multitude. But
they have probably begun to lay to heart the fact that the existing morality, though not dependent
on any special theology, any special view of the relations between soul and body, or any special
theory of future rewards and punishments, is largely dependent on a belief in the indefeasible
authority of conscience, and in that without which conscience can have no indefeasible authority--the
presence of a just and all-seeing God. It may be true that in primaeval society these beliefs
are found only in the most rudimentary form, and, as social sanctions, are very inferior in
force to mere gregarious instincts or the pressure of tribal need. But man emerges from the
primaeval state, and when he does, he demands a reason for his submission to moral law. That
the leaders of the anti- theological movement in the present day are immoral, nobody but the
most besotted fanatic would insinuate; no candid antagonist would deny that some of them are
in every respect the very best of men. The fearless love of truth is usually accompanied by
other high qualities; and nothing could be more unlikely than that natures disposed to virtue,
trained under good influences, peculiarly sensitive to opinion and guarded by intellectual
tastes, would lapse into vice as soon as the traditional sanction was removed. But what is
to prevent the withdrawal of the traditional sanction from producing its natural effect upon
the morality of the mass of mankind? The commercial swindler or the political sharper, when
the divine authority of conscience is gone, will feel that he has only the opinion of society
to reckon with, and he knows how to reckon with the opinion of society. If Macbeth is ready,
provided he can succeed in this world, to "jump the life to come," much more ready will villainy
be to "jump" the bad consequences of its actions to humanity when its own conscious existence
shall have closed. Rate the practical effect of religious beliefs as low and that of social
influences as high as you may, there can surely be no doubt that morality has received some
support from the authority of an inward monitor regarded as the voice of God. The worst of
men would have wished to die the death of the righteous; he would have been glad, if he could,
when death approached, to cancel his crimes; and the conviction, or misgiving, which this implied,
could not fail to have some influence upon the generality of mankind, though no doubt the influence
was weakened rather than strengthened by the extravagant and incredible form in which the doctrine
of future retribution was presented by the dominant theology.

The denial of the existence of God and of a Future State, in a word, is the dethronement of
conscience; and society will pass, to say the least, through a dangerous interval before social
science can fill the vacant throne. Avowed scepticism is likely to be disinterested and therefore
to be moral; it is among the unavowed sceptics and conformists to political religions that
the consequences of the change may be expected to appear.

But more than this, the doctrines of Natural Selection and the Survival of the Fittest are
beginning to generate a morality of their own, with the inevitable corollary that the proof
of superior fitness is to survive--to survive either by force or cunning, like the other animals
which by dint of force or cunning have come out victorious from the universal war and asserted
for themselves a place in nature. The "irrepressible struggle for empire" is formally put forward
by public writers of the highest class as the basis and the rule of the conduct of this country
towards other nations; and we may be sure that there is not an entire absence of connection
between the private code of a school and its international conceptions. The feeling that success
covers everything seems to be gaining ground and to be overcoming, not merely the old conventional
rules of honour, but moral principle itself. Both in public and private there are symptoms
of an approaching failure of the motive power which has hitherto sustained men both in self-
sacrificing effort and in courageous protest against wrong, though as yet we are only at the
threshold of the great change, and established sentiment long survives, in the masses, that
which originally gave it birth. Renan says, probably with truth, that had the Second Empire
remained at peace, it might have gone on forever; and in the history of this country the connection
between political effort and religion has been so close that its dissolution, to say the least,
can hardly fail to produce a critical change in the character of the nation. The time may come,
when, as philosophers triumphantly predict, men, under the ascendancy of science, will act
for the common good, with the same mechanical certainty as bees; though the common good of
the human hive would perhaps not be easy to define. But in the meantime mankind, or some portions
of it, may be in danger of an anarchy of self-interest, compressed for the purpose of political
order, by a despotism of force.

That science and criticism, acting--thanks to the liberty of opinion won by political effort--with
a freedom never known before, have delivered us from a mass of dark and degrading superstitions,
we own with heartfelt thankfulness to the deliverers, and in the firm conviction that the removal
of false beliefs, and of the authorities or institutions founded on them, cannot prove in the
end anything but a blessing to mankind. But at the same time the foundations of general morality
have inevitably been shaken, and a crisis has been brought on the gravity of which nobody can
fail to see, and nobody but a fanatic of Materialism can see without the most serious misgiving.

There has been nothing in the history of man like the present situation. The decadence of the
ancient mythologies is very far from affording a parallel. The connection of those mythologies
with morality was comparatively slight. Dull and half-animal minds would hardly be conscious
of the change which was partly veiled from them by the continuance of ritual and state creeds;
while in the minds of Plato and Marcus Aurelius it made place for the development of a moral
religion. The Reformation was a tremendous earthquake: it shook down the fabric of mediaeval
religion, and as a consequence of the disturbance in the religious sphere filled the world
with revolutions and wars. But it left the authority of the Bible unshaken, and men might feel
that the destructive process had its limit, and that adamant was still beneath their feet.
But a world which is intellectual and keenly alive to the significance of these questions,
reading all that is written about them with almost passionate avidity, finds itself brought
to a crisis the character of which any one may realize by distinctly presenting to himself
the idea of existence without a God.

THE LABOUR MOVEMENT

(This Lecture was delivered before the Mechanics' Institute of Montreal, and the Literary Society
of Sherbrooke, and published in the CANADIAN MONTHLY, December, 1872. The allusions to facts
and events must be read with reference to the date.)

We are in the midst of an industrial war which is extending over Europe and the United States,
and has not left Canada untouched. It is not wonderful that great alarm should prevail, or
that, in panic-stricken minds, it should assume extravagant forms. London deprived of bread
by a bakers' strike, or of fuel by a colliers' strike, is a serious prospect; so is the sudden
stoppage of any one of the wheels in the vast and complicated machine of modern industry. People
may be pardoned for thinking that they have fallen on evil times, and that they have a dark
future before them. Yet, those who have studied industrial history know that the present disturbance
is mild compared with the annals of even a not very remote past. The study of history shows
us where we are, and whither things are tending. Though it does not diminish the difficulties
of the present hour, it teaches us to estimate them justly, to deal with them calmly and not
to call for cavalry and grapeshot because one morning we are left without hot bread.

One of the literary janissaries of the French Empire thought to prove that the working class
had no rights against the Bonapartes, by showing that the first free labourers were only emancipated
slaves. One would like to know what he supposed the first Bonapartes were. However though his
inference was not worth much, except against those who are pedantic enough, to vouch parchment
archives for the rights and interests of humanity, he was in the right as to the fact. Labour
first appears in history as a slave, treated like a beast of burden, chained to the door- post
of a Roman master, or lodged in the underground manstables (ergastula) on his estate, treated
like a beast, or worse than a beast, recklessly worked out and then cast forth to die, scourged,
tortured, flung in a moment of passion to feed the lampreys, crucified for the slightest offence
or none. "Set up a cross for the slave," cries the Roman matron, in, Juvenal. "Why, what has
the slave done?" asks her husband.

One day labour strikes; finds a leader in Spartacus, a slave devoted as a gladiator to the
vilest of Roman pleasures; wages a long and terrible servile war. The revolt is put down at
last, after shaking the foundations of the state. Six thousand slaves are crucified along the
road from Rome to Capua. Labour had its revenge, for slavery brought the doom of Rome.

In the twilight of history, between the fall of Rome and the rise of the new nationalities,
we dimly see the struggle going on. There is a great insurrection of the oppressed peasantry,
under the name of Bagaudae, in Gaul. When the light dawns, a step has been gained. Slavery
has been generally succeeded by serfdom. But serfdom is hard. The peasantry of feudal Normandy
conspire against their cruel lords, hold secret meetings, the ominous name commune is heard.
But the conspiracy is discovered and suppressed with the fiendish ferocity with which panic
inspires a dominant class, whether in Normandy or Jamaica. Amidst the religious fervour of
the Crusades again breaks out a wild labour movement, that of the Pastoureaux, striking for
equality in the name of the Holy Spirit, which, perhaps, they had as good a right to use as
some who deemed their use of it profane. This is in the country, among the shepherds and ploughmen.
In the cities labour has congregated numbers, mutual intelligence, union on its side; it is
constantly reinforced by fugitives from rural serfdom; it builds city walls, purchases or extorts
charters of liberty. The commercial and manufacturing cities of Italy, Germany, Flanders, become
the cradles of free industry, and, at the same time, of intellect, art, civilization. But these
are points of light amidst the feudal darkness of the rural districts. In France, for example,
the peasantry are cattle; in time of peace crushed with forced labour, feudal burdens, and
imposts of all kinds; in time of war driven, in unwilling masses, half-armed and helpless,
to the shambles. Aristocratic luxury, gambling, profligate wars--Jacques Bonhomme pays for
them all. At Crecy and Poictiers, the lords are taken prisoners; have to provide heavy ransoms,
which, being debts of honour, like gambling debts, are more binding than debts of honesty.
But Jacques Bonhomme's back is broad, it will bear everything. Broad as it is, it will not
bear this last straw. The tidings of Flemish freedom have, perhaps, in some way reached his
dull ear, taught him that bondage is not, as his priest, no doubt, assures him it is, a changeless
ordinance of God, that the yoke, though strong, may be broken. He strikes, arms himself with
clubs, knives, ploughshares, rude pikes, breaks out into a Jacquerie, storms the castles of
the oppressor, sacks, burns, slays with the fury of a wild beast unchained. The lords are stupefied.
At last they rally and bring their armour, their discipline, their experience in war, the moral
ascendency of a master-class to bear. The English gentlemen, in spite of the hostilities, only
half suspended, between the nations, join the French gentlemen against the common enemy. Twenty
thousand peasants are soon cut down, but long afterwards the butchery continues. Guillaume
Callet, the leader of the Jacquerie, a very crafty peasant, as he is called by the organs of
the lords, is crowned with a circlet of red-hot iron.

In England, during the same period serfdom, we know not exactly how, is breaking up. There
is a large body of labourers working for hire. But in the midst of the wars of the great conqueror,
Edward III., comes a greater conqueror, the plague called the Black Death, which sweeps away,
some think, a third of the population of Europe. The number of labourers is greatly diminished.
Wages rise. The feudal parliament passes an Act to compel labourers, under penalties, to work
at the old rates. This Act is followed by a train of similar Acts, limiting wages and fixing
in the employers' interest the hours of work, which, in the pages of imaginative writers, figure
as noble attempts made by legislators of a golden age to regulate the relations between employer
and employed on some higher principle than that of contract. The same generous spirit, no doubt,
dictated the enactment prohibiting farm labourers from bringing up their children to trades,
lest hands should be withdrawn from the land-owner's service. Connected with the Statutes of
Labourers, are those bloody vagrant laws, in which whipping, branding, hanging are ordained
as the punishment of vagrancy by lawgivers, many of whom were themselves among the idlest and
most noxious vagabonds in the country, and the authors of senseless wars which generated a
mass of vagrancy, by filling the country with disbanded soldiers. In the reign of Richard II.,
the poll tax being added to other elements of class discord, labour strikes, takes arms under
Wat Tyler, demands fixed rents, tenant right in an extreme form, and the total abolition of
serfage. A wild religious communism bred of the preachings of the more visionary among the
Wycliffites mingles in the movement with the sense of fiscal and industrial wrong. "When Adam
delved and Eve span, where was then the gentleman?" is the motto of the villeins, and it is
one of more formidable import than any utterance of peasant orators at Agricultural Labourers'
meetings in the present day. Then come fearful scenes of confusion, violence and crime. London
is in the power of hordes brutalized by oppression. High offices of state, high ecclesiastics
are murdered. Special vengeance falls on the lawyers, as the artificers who forged the cunning
chains of feudal iniquity. The rulers, the troops, are paralyzed by the aspect of the sea of
furious savagery raging round them. The boy king, by a miraculous exhibition of courageous
self- possession, saves the State; but he is compelled to grant general charters of manumission,
which, when the danger is over, the feudal parliament forces him by a unanimous vote to repudiate.
Wholesale hanging of serfs, of course, follows the landlords' victory.

The rising under Jack Cade, in the reign of Henry VI., was rather political than industrial.
The demands of the insurgents, political reform and freedom of suffrage, show that progress
had been made in the condition and aspirations of the labouring class. But with the age of
the Tudors came the final breakup in England of feudalism, as well as of Catholicism, attended
by disturbances in the world of labour, similar to those which have attended the abolition
of slavery in the Southern States. This is the special epoch of the sanguinary vagrancy laws,
the most sanguinary of which was framed by the hand of Henry VIII. The new nobility of courtiers
and upstarts, who had shared with the king the plunder of the monasteries, were hard landlords
of course; they robbed the people of their rights of common, and swept away homesteads and
cottages, to make room for sheep farms, the wool trade being the great source of wealth in
those days. By the spoliation of the monasteries, the great alms-houses of the Middle Ages,
the poor had also been left for a time without the relief, which was given them again in a
more regular form by the Poor Law of Elizabeth. Hence in the reign of Edward VI., armed strikes
again, in different parts of the kingdom. In the West, the movement was mainly religious; but
in the Eastern countries, under Kett of Norfolk, it was agrarian. Kett's movement after a brief
period of success, during which the behaviour of the insurgents and their leader was very creditable,
was put down by the disciplined mercenaries under the command of the new aristocracy, and its
suppression was of course followed by a vigorous use of the gallows. No doubt the industrial
conservatives of those days were as frightened, as angry, and as eager for strong measures
as their successors are now: but the awkwardness of the newly liberated captive, in the use
of his limbs and eyes, is due not to his recovered liberty, but to the narrowness and darkness
of the dungeon in which he has been immured.

In Germany, at the same epoch, there was not merely a local rising, but a wide-spread and most
terrible peasants' war. The German peasantry had been ground down beyond even an hereditary
bondsman's power of endurance by their lords generally, and by the Prince Bishop and other
spiritual lords in particular. The Reformation having come with a gospel of truth, love, spiritual
brotherhood, the peasants thought it might also have brought some hope of social justice. The
doctors of divinity had to inform them that this was a mistake. But they took the matter into
their own hands and rose far and wide, the fury of social and industrial war blending with
the wildest fanaticism, the most delirious ecstacy, the darkest imposture. Once more there
are stormings and burnings of feudal castles, massacring of their lords. Lords are roasted
alive, hunted like wild beasts in savage revenge for the cruelty of the game laws. Munzer,
a sort of peasant Mahomet, is at the head of the movement. Under him it becomes Anabaptist,
Antinomian, Communist. At first he and his followers sweep the country with a whirlwind of
terror and destruction: but again the lords rally, bring up regular troops. The peasants are
brought to bay on their last hill side, behind a rampart formed of their waggons. Their prophet
assures them that the cannon-balls will fall harmless into his cloak. The cannon-balls take
their usual course: a butchery, then a train of torturings and executions follows, the Prince
Bishop, among others, adding considerably to the whiteness of the Church's robe. Luther is
accused of having incited the ferocity of the lords against those, who, it is alleged, had
only carried his own principles to an extreme. But in the first place Luther never taught Anabaptism
or anything that could logically lead to it; and in the second place, before he denounced the
peasants, he tried to mediate and rebuke the tyranny of the lords. No man deserves more sympathy
than a great reformer, who is obliged to turn against the excesses of his own party. He becomes
the object of fierce hatred on one side, of exulting derision on the other; yet he is no traitor,
but alone loyal to his conscience and his cause.

The French Revolution was a political movement among the middle class in the cities, but among
the peasantry in the country it was an agrarian and labour movement, and the dismantling of
chateaux, and chasing away of their lords which then took place were a renewal of the struggle
which had given birth to the Jacquerie, the insurrection of Wat Tyler, and the Peasants' War.
This time the victory remained with the peasant, and the lord returned no more.

In England, long after the Tudor period, industrial disturbances took place, and wild communistic
fancies welled up from the depths of a suffering world of labour, when society was stirred
by political and religious revolution. Under the Commonwealth, communists went up on the hill
side, and began to break ground for a poor man's Utopia; and the great movement of the Levellers,
which had in it an economical as well as a political element, might have overturned society,
if it had not been quelled by the strong hand of Cromwell. But in more recent times, within
living memory, within the memory of many here there were labour disturbances in England, compared
with which the present industrial war is mild. [Footnote: For the following details, see Martineau's
"History of the Peace."] In 1816, there were outbreaks among the suffering peasantry which
filled the governing classes with fear. In Suffolk nightly fires of incendiaries blazed in
every district, thrashing machines were broken or burnt in open day, mills were attacked. At
Brandon large bodies of workmen assembled to prescribe a maximum price of grain and meat, and
to pull down the houses of butchers and bakers. They bore flags with the motto, "Bread or Blood".
Insurgents from the Fen Country, a special scene of distress, assembled at Littleport, attacked
the house of a magistrate in the night, broke open shops, emptied the cellars of public-houses,
marched on Ely, and filled the district for two days and nights with drunken rioting and plunder.
The soldiery was called in; there was an affray in which blood flowed on both sides, then a
special commission and hangings to close the scene. Distressed colliers in Staffordshire and
Wales assembled by thousands, stopped works, and were with difficulty diverted from marching
to London. In 1812, another stain of blood was added to the sanguinary criminal code of those
days by the Act making death the penalty for the destruction of machinery. This was caused
by the Luddite outrages, which were carried on in the most systematic manner, and on the largest
scale in Nottingham and the adjoining counties. Bodies of desperadoes, armed and disguised,
went forth under a leader, styled General Ludd, who divided them into bands, and aligned to
each band its work of destruction. Terror reigned around; the inhabitants were commanded to
keep in their houses and put out their lights on pain of death. In the silence of night houses
and factories were broken open, machines demolished, unfinished work scattered on the highways.
The extent and secrecy of the conspiracy baffled the efforts of justice and the death penalty
failed to put the system down. Even the attempts made to relieve distress became new sources
of discontent and a soup kitchen riot at Glasgow led to a two days conflict between the soldiery
and the mob. In 1818, a threatening mass of Manchester spinners, on strike came into bloody
collision with the military. Then there were rick burnings, farmers patrolling all night long,
gibbets erected on Pennenden heath, and bodies swinging on them, bodies of boys, eighteen or
nineteen years old. Six labourers of Dorsetshire, the most wretched county in England, were
sentenced to seven years' transportation nominally for administering an illegal oath, really
for Unionism. Thereupon all the trades made a menacing demonstration, marched to Westminster,
thirty thousand strong, with a petition for the release of the labourers. London was in an
agony of fear, the Duke of Wellington prepared for a great conflict, pouring in troops and
bringing up artillery from Woolwich. In 1840, again there were formidable movements, and society
felt itself on the crust of a volcano. Threatening letters were sent to masters, rewards offered
for firing mills, workmen were beaten, driven out of the country, burned with vitriol, and,
there was reason to fear, murdered. Great masses of operatives collected for purposes of intimidation,
shopkeepers were pillaged, collisions again took place between the people and the soldiery.
Irish agrarianism meanwhile prevailed, in a far more deadly form than at present. And these
industrial disturbances were connected with political disturbances equally formidable, with
Chartism, Socialism, Cato Street conspiracies, Peterloo massacres, Bristol riots.

Now the present movement even in England, where there is so much suffering and so much ignorance,
has been marked by a comparative absence of violence, and comparative respect for law. Considering
what large bodies of men have been out on strike, how much they have endured in the conflict,
and what appeals have been made to their passions, it is wonderful how little of actual crime
or disturbance there has been. There were the Sheffield murders the disclosure of which filled
all the friends of labour with shame and sorrow, all the enemies of labour with malignant exultation.
But we should not have heard so much of the Sheffield murders if such things had been common.
Sheffield is an exceptional place; some of the work there is deadly, life is short and character
is reckless. Even at Sheffield, a very few, out of the whole number of trades, were found to
have been in any way implicated. The denunciation of the outrages by the trades through England
generally, was loud and sincere; an attempt was made, of course, to fix the guilt on all the
Unions, but this was a hypocritical libel. It was stated, in one of our Canadian journals,
the other day, that Mr. Roebuck had lost his seat for Sheffield, by protesting against Unionist
outrage. Mr. Roebuck lost his seat for Sheffield by turning Tory. The Trades' candidate, by
whom Mr. Roebuck was defeated, was Mr. Mundella, a representative of whom any constituency
may be proud, a great employer of labour, and one who has done more than any other man of his
class in England to substitute arbitration for industrial war, and to restore kindly relations
between the employers and the employed. To Mr. Mundella the support of Broadhead and the criminal
Unionists was offered, and by him it was decisively rejected.

The public mind has been filled with hideous fantasies, on the subject of Unionism, by sensation
novelists like Mr. Charles Reade and Mr. Disraeli, the latter of whom has depicted the initiation
of a working man into a Union with horrid rites, in a lofty and spacious room, hung with black
cloth and lighted with tapers, amidst skeletons, men with battle axes, rows of masked figures
in white robes, and holding torches; the novice swearing an awful oath on the Gospel, to do
every act which the heads of the society enjoin, such as the chastisement of "nobs," the assassination
of tyrannical masters, and the demolition of all mills deemed incorrigible by the society.
People may read such stuff for the sake of amusement and excitement, if they please; but they
will fall into a grave error if they take it for a true picture of the Amalgamated Carpenters
or the Amalgamated Engineers. Besides, the Sheffield outrages were several years old at the
time of their discovery. They belong, morally, to the time when the unions of working men being
forbidden by unfair laws framed in the masters' interest were compelled to assume the character
of conspiracies; when, to rob a union being no theft, unionists could hardly be expected to
have the same respect as the better protected interests for public justice; when, moreover,
the mechanics, excluded from political rights, could scarcely regard Government as the impartial
guardian of their interests, or the governing classes as their friends. Since the legalization
of the unions, the extension of legal security to their funds and the admission of the mechanics
to the suffrage there has been comparatively little of unionist crime.

I do not say that there has been none. I do not say that there is none now. Corporate selfishness
of which Trade Unions after all are embodiments seldom keeps quite clear of criminality. But
the moral dangers of corporate selfishness are the same in all associations and in all classes.
The Pennsylvanian iron master who comes before our Commissions of Inquiry to testify against
Unionist outrage in Pennsylvania where a very wild and roving class of workmen are managed
by agents who probably take little thought for the moral condition of the miner--this iron
master I say is himself labouring through his paid organs in the press, through his representatives
in Congress, and by every means in his power to keep up hatred of England and bad relations
between the two countries at the constant risk of war because it suits the interest of his
Protectionist Ring. The upper classes of Europe in the same spirit applauded what they called
the salvation of society by the coup d'etat, the massacre on the Boulevards and the lawless
deportation of the leaders of the working men in France. In the main however I repeat the present
movement has been legal and pacific and so long as there is no violence, so long as no weapons
but those of argument are employed, so long as law and reason reign, matters are sure to come
right in the end. The result may not be exactly what we wish because we may wish to take too
much for ourselves and to give our fellow men too little, but it will be just and we cannot
deliberately desire more. If the law is broken by the Unionists, if violence or intimidation
is employed by them instead of reason, let the Government protect the rights of the community
and let the community strengthen the hands of the Government for that purpose.

Perhaps you will say that I have forgotten the International and the Commune. There is undoubtedly
a close connection between the labour movement and democracy, between the struggle for industrial
and the struggle for political emancipation, as there is a connection between both and Secularism,
the frank form assumed among the working men by that which is concealed and conformist Scepticism
among the upper class. In this respect the present industrial crisis resembles those of the
past which as we have seen were closely connected with religious and political revolutions.
In truth the whole frame of humanity generally moves at once. With the International, however,
as an organ of political incendiarism, labour had very little to do. The International was,
in its origin, a purely industrial association, born of Prince Albert's International Exhibition,
which held a convention at Geneva, where everybody goes pic-nicing, for objects which, though
chimerical, were distinctly economical, and free from any taint of petroleum. But a band of
political conspirators got hold of the organization and used it, or at least, so much of it
as they could carry with them, for a purpose entirely foreign to the original intent. Mark,
too, that it was not so much labour or even democracy that charged the mine which blew up Paris,
as the reactionary Empire, which, like reaction in countries more nearly connected with us
than France, played the demagogue for its own ends, set the labourers against the liberal middle
class, and crowded Paris with operatives, bribed by employment on public works. I detest all
conspiracy, whether it be that of Ignatius Loyola, or that of Karl Marx- -not by conspiracy,
not by dark and malignant intrigue, is society to be reformed, but by open, honest and kindly
appeals to the reason and conscience of mankind. Yet, let us be just, even to the Commune.
The destruction of the column at the Place Vendome was not a good act; but if it was in any
measure the protest of labour against war, it was a better act than ever was done by the occupant
of that column. On that column it was that, when Napoleon's long orgy of criminal glory was
drawing to a close, the hand of misery and bereavement wrote "Monster, if all the blood you
have shed could be collected in this square, you might drink without stooping." Thiers is shooting
the Communists; perhaps justly, though humanity will be relieved when the gore ceases to trickle,
and vengeance ends its long repast. But Thiers has himself been the literary arch-priest of
Napoleon and of war: of all the incendiaries in France, he has been the worst.

The Trade Unions are new things in industrial history. The guilds of the Middle Ages, with
which the unions are often identified, were confederations of all engaged in the trade, masters
as well as men, against outsiders. The Unions are confederations of the men against the masters.
They are the offspring of an age of great capitalists, employing large bodies of hired workmen.
The workmen, needy, and obliged to sell their labour without reserve, that they might eat bread,
found themselves, in their isolation, very much at the mercy of their masters, and resorted
to union as a source of strength. Capital, by collecting in the centres of manufacture masses
of operatives who thus became conscious of their number and their force, gave birth to a power
which now countervails its own. To talk of a war of labour against capital generally would,
of course, be absurd. Capital is nothing but the means of undertaking any industrial or commercial
enterprise, of setting up an Allan line of steamships or setting up a costermonger's cart.
We might as well talk of a war of labour against water power.

Capital is the fruit of labour past, the condition of labour present, without it no man could
do a stroke of work, at least of work requiring tools or food for him who uses them. Let us
dismiss from our language and our minds these impersonations, which though mere creatures of
fancy playing with abstract nouns end by depraving our sentiments and misdirecting our actions,
let us think and speak of capital impersonally and sensibly as an economical force and as we
would think and speak of the force of gravitation. Relieve the poor word of the big c, which
is a greatness thrust upon it, its tyranny, and the burning hatred of its tyranny will at once
cease. Nevertheless, the fact remains that a working man standing alone, and without a breakfast
for himself or his family, is not in a position to obtain the best terms from a rich employer,
who can hold out as long as he likes or hire other labour on the spot. Whether Unionism has
had much effect in producing a general rise of wages is very doubtful. Mr. Brassey's book,
"Work and Wages," goes far to prove that it has not, and that while, on the one hand, the unionists
have been in a fool's paradise, the masters, on the other, have been crying out before they
were hurt. No doubt the general rise of wages is mainly and fundamentally due to natural causes:
the accumulation of capital, the extension of commercial enterprise, and the opening up of
new countries, which have greatly increased the competition for labour, and consequently, raised
the price, while the nominal price of labour as well as of all other commodities has been raised
by the influx of gold. What Unionism, as I think, has evidently effected, is the economical
emancipation of the working man. It has rendered him independent instead of dependent, and,
in some cases almost a serf, as he was before. It has placed him on an equal footing with his
employer, and enabled him to make the best terms for himself in every respect. There is no
employer who does not feel that this is so, or whom Mr. Brassey's statistics, or any statistics,
would convince that it is not.

Fundamentally, value determines the price the community will give for any article, or any kind
of work, just so much as it is worth. But there is no economical deity who, in each individual
case, exactly adjusts the price to the value; we may make a good or a bad bargain, as many
of us know to our cost. One source of bad bargains is ignorance. Before unions, which have
diffused the intelligence of the labour market, and by so doing have equalized prices, the
workman hardly knew the rate of wages in the next town. If this was true of the mechanic, it
was still more true of the farm labourer. Practically speaking, the farm labourers in each
parish of England, ignorant of everything beyond the parish, isolated and, therefore, dependent,
had to take what the employers chose to give them. And what the employers chose to give them
over large districts was ten shillings a week for themselves and their families, out of which
they paid, perhaps, eighteen-pence for rent. A squire the other day, at a meeting of labourers,
pointed with pride, and no doubt, with honest pride, to a labourer who had brought up a family
of twelve children on twelve shillings a week I will venture to say the squire spent as much
on any horse in his stables. Meat never touched the peasant's lips, though game, preserved
for his landlord's pleasure, was running round his cottage. His children could not be educated,
because they were wanted, almost from their infancy, to help in keeping the family from starving,
as stonepickers, or perambulating scarecrows. His abode was a hovel, in which comfort, decency,
morality could not dwell; and it was mainly owing to this cause that, as I have heard an experienced
clergyman say, even the people in the low quarters of cities were less immoral than the rural
poor. How the English peasants lived on such wages as they had, was a question which puzzled
the best informed. How they died was clear enough; as penal paupers in a union workhouse. Yet
Hodge's back, like that of Jacques Bonhomme, in France, bore everything, bore the great war
against Republican France; for the squires and rectors, who made that war for class purposes,
got their taxes back in increased rents and tithes. How did the peasantry exist, what was their
condition in those days when wheat was at a hundred, or even a hundred and thirty shillings?
They were reduced to a second serfage. They became in the mass parish paupers, and were divided,
like slaves, among the employers of each parish. Men may be made serfs, and even slaves by
other means than open force, in a country where, legally, all are free, where the impossibility
of slavery is the boast of the law. Of late benevolence has been, abroad in the English parish,
almsgiving and visiting have increased, good landlords have taken up cottage improvements.
There have been harvest-homes, at which the young squires have danced with cottagers. But now
Hodge has taken the matter into his own hands, and it seems not without effect. In a letter
which I have seen, a squire says, "Here the people are all contented; we (the employers) have
seen the necessity of raising their wages." Conservative journals begin to talk of measures
for the compulsory improvement of cottages, for limiting ground game, giving tenant right to
farmers, granting the franchise to rural householders. Yes, in consequence, partly, at least
of this movement, the dwellings and the general conditions of the English peasantry will be
improved, the game laws will be abolished; the farmers pressed upon from below, and in their
turn pressing upon those above, will demand and obtain tenant right; and the country, as well
as the city householders will be admitted to the franchise, which, under the elective system,
is at once the only guarantee for justice to him and for his loyalty to the State. And when
the country householder has the suffrage there will soon be an end of those laws of primogeniture
and entail, which are deemed so Conservative, but are in fact most revolutionary, since they
divorce the nation from its own soil. And then there will be a happier and a more United England
in country as well as in town: the poor law, the hateful, degrading, demoralizing poor law
will cease to exist; the huge poor- house will no longer darken the rural landscape with its
shadow, in hideous contrast with the palace. Suspicion and hatred will no more cower and mutter
over the cottage hearth, or round the beer-house fire: the lord of the mansion will no longer
be like the man in Tennyson slumbering while a lion is always creeping nearer. Lord Malmesbury
is astonished at this disturbance. He always thought the relation between the lord and the
pauper peasant was the happiest possible; he cannot conceive what people mean by proposing
a change. But then Lord Malmesbury was placed at rather a delusive point of view. If he knew
the real state of Hodge's heart he would rejoice in the prospect of a change, not only for
Hodge's sake, but, as he is no doubt a good man, for his own. England will be more religious,
too, as well as happier and more harmonious, let the clergy be well assured of it. Social injustice
especially when backed by the Church, is unfavourable to popular religion.

The general rise of wages may at first bring economical disturbance and pressure on certain
classes, but, in the end, it brings general prosperity, diffused civilization, public happiness,
security to society, which can never be secure while the few are feasting and the many are
starving. In the end, also, it brings an increase of production, and greater plenty. Not that
we can assent, without reserve, to the pleasant aphorism, that increase of wages, in itself,
makes a better workman, which is probably true only where the workman has been under-fed, as
in the case of the farm labourers of England. But the dearness of labour leads to the adoption
of improved methods of production, and especially to the invention of machinery, which gives
back to the community what it has paid in increased wages a hundred or a thousand fold. In
Illinois, towards the close of the war, a large proportion of the male population had been
drafted or volunteered, labour had become scarce and wages had risen, but the invention of
machinery had been so much stimulated that the harvest that year was greater than it had ever
been before. Machinery will now be used to a greater extent on the English farms; more will
be produced by fewer hands, labourers will be set free for the production of other kinds, perhaps
for the cultivation of our North-West, and the British peasant will rise from the industrial
and intellectual level of a mere labourer to that of the guider of a machine. Machinery worked
by relays of men is, no doubt, one of the principal solutions of our industrial problems, and
of the social problems connected with them. Some seem to fancy that it is the universal solution;
but we cannot run reaping machines in the winter or in the dark.

High wages, and the independence of the labourers, compel economy of labour. Economize labour,
cries Lord Derby, the cool-headed mentor of the rich; we must give up our second under-butler.
When the labourer is dependent, and his wages are low, the most precious of commodities, that
commodity the husbanding of which is the chief condition of increased production, and of the
growth of national wealth, is squandered with reckless prodigality. Thirty years the labourers
of Egypt wrought by gangs of a hundred thousand at a time to build the great Pyramid which
was to hold a despot's dust. Even now, when everybody is complaining of the dearness of labour,
and the insufferable independence of the working class, a piece of fine lace, we are told,
consumes the labour of seven persons, each employed on a distinct portion of the work; and
the thread, of exquisite fineness, is spun in dark rooms underground, not without injury, we
may suppose, to the eyesight or health of those employed. So that the labour movement does
not seem to have yet trenched materially even on the elegancies of life. Would it be very detrimental
to real civilization if we were forced, by the dearness of labour, to give up all the trades
in which human life or health is sacrificed to mere fancy? In London, the bakers have struck.
They are kept up from midnight to noon, sometimes far even into the afternoon, sleepless, or
only snatching broken slumbers, that London may indulge its fancy for hot bread, which it would
be much better without. The result of the strike probably will be, besides relief to the bakers
themselves, which has already been in part conceded, a more wholesome kind of bread, such as
will keep fresh and palatable through the day, and cleaner baking; for the wretchedness of
the trade has made it vile and filthy, as is the case in other trades besides that of the bakers.
Many an article of mere luxury, many a senseless toy, if our eyes could be opened, would be
seen to bear the traces of human blood and tears. We are like the Merchant Brothers in Keats:--

  "With her two brothers this fair lady dwelt,
  Enriched from ancestral merchandize,
  And for them many a weary hand did swelt
  In torch-lit mines and noisy factories,
  And many once proud-quivered loins did melt
  In blood from stinging whip; with hollow eyes
  Many all day in dazzling river stood
  To take the rich-ored driftings of the flood."

Among other economies of labour, if this movement among the English peasantry succeeds and
spreads to other countries, then will come an economy of soldiers' blood. Pauperism has been
the grand recruiting serjeant. Hodge listed and went to be shot or scourged within an inch
of his life for sixpence a day, because he was starving; but he will not leave five shillings
for sixpence. Even in former days, the sailor, being somewhat better off than the peasant,
could only be forced into the service by the press gang, a name the recollection of which ought
to mitigate our strictures on the encroaching tendencies of the working class. There will be
a strike, or a refusal of service equivalent to a strike in this direction also. It will be
requisite to raise the soldier's pay; the maintenance of standing armies will become a costly
indulgence. I have little faith in international champagne, or even in Geneva litigation as
a universal antidote to war: war will cease or be limited to necessary occasions, when the
burden of large standing armies becomes too great to be borne.

The strike of the English colliers again, though it causes great inconvenience, may have its
good effect. It may be a strong indication that mining in England is getting very deep, and
that the nation must exorcise a strict economy in the use of coal, the staple of its wealth
and greatness. The lot of the colliers, grubbling all day underground and begrimed with dirt,
is one of the hardest; the sacrifice of their lives by accidents is terribly large; and we
may well believe that the community needs a lesson in favour of these underground toilers,
which could be effectually taught only by some practical manifestation of their discontent.

To the labour movement, mainly, we owe those efforts to establish better relations between
the employer and the employed, which are known by the general name of co-operation. The Comtists,
in the name of their autocrat, denounce the whole co-operative system as rotten. Their plan,
if you get to the bottom of it, is in fact a permanent division of the industrial world into
capitalists. And workmen; the capitalists exercising a rule controlled only by the influence
of philosophers; the workmen remaining in a perpetual state of tutelage, not to say of babyhood.
A little acquaintance with this continent would probably dissipate notions of a permanent division
of classes, or a permanent tutelage of any class. It is true that great commercial enterprises
require the guidance of superior intelligence with undivided counsels as well as a large capital,
and that co-operative mills have failed or succeeded only in cases where very little policy
and very little capital were required. As to co-operative stores, they are co-operative only
in a very different sense: combinative would be a more accurate term; and the department in
which they seem likely to produce an alteration, is that of retail trade, an improvement in
the conditions of which, economical and moral, is assuredly much needed. But if we are told
that it is impossible to give the workmen an interest in the enterprise, so as, to make him
work more willingly avoid waste and generally identify him self with his employer the answer
is that the thing has been done both in England and here. An artisan working for him self and
selling the produce of his individual skill has an interest and a pride in his work for which
it would seem desirable to find if possible some substitute in the case of factory hands whose
toil otherwise is mere weariness. The increased scale of commercial enterprise however is in
itself advantageous in this respect. In great works where an army of workmen is employed at
Saltaire or in the Platt works at Oldham there must be many grades of promotion and many subordinate
places of trust and emolument to which the workmen may rise by industry and probity without
capital of his own.

The general effect of the labour movement has been as I have said the industrial emancipation
of the workmen. It has perhaps had an effect more general still. Aided by the general awakening
of social sentiment and of the feeling of social responsibility, it has practically opened
our eyes to the fact that a nation and humanity at large is a community the good things of
which all are entitled to share while all must share the evil things. It has forcibly dispelled
the notion in which the rich indolently acquiesced that enjoyment leisure culture refined affection
high civilization are the destined lot of the few while the destined lot of the many is to
support the privileged existence of the few by unremitting coarse and jobless toil. Society
has been taught that it must at least endeavour to be just. The old ecclesiastical props of
privilege are gone. There is no use any longer in quoting or misquoting Scripture to prove
that God wills the mass of mankind to be always poor and always dependent on the rich. The
very peasant has now broken that spell and will no longer believe the rector if he tells him
that this world belongs to the squire and that justice is put off to the next. The process
of mental emancipation has been assisted by the bishop who was so rash as to suggest that rural
agitators should be ducked in a horse pond. Hodge has determined to find out for himself by
a practical experiment what the will of God really is. No doubt this is an imperfect world
and is likely to remain so for our time at least; we must all work on in the hope that if we
do our duty it will be well for us in the sum of things and that when the far off goal of human
effort is at last reached, every faithful servant of humanity will have his part in the result;
if it were not so, it would be better to be a brute, with no unfulfilled aspirations, than
a man. But I repeat, the religion of privilege has lost its power to awe or to control, and
if society wishes to rest on a safe foundation, it must show that it is at least trying to be just.

Wealth, real wealth, has hardly as yet much reason to complain of any encroachment of the labour
movement on its rights. When did it command such means and appliances of pleasure, such satisfaction
for every appetite and every fancy, as it commands now? When did it rear such enchanted palaces
of luxury as it is rearing in England at the present day? Well do I remember one of those palaces,
the most conspicuous object for miles round. Its lord was, I daresay, consuming the income
of some six hundred of the poor labouring families round him. The thought that you are spending
on yourself annually the income of six hundred labouring families seems to me about as much
as a man with a heart and a brain can bear. Whatever the rich man desires, the finest house,
the biggest diamond, the reigning beauty for his wife, social homage, public honours, political
power, is ready at his command. Does he fancy a seat in the British House of Commons, the best
club in London, as it has been truly called? All other claims, those of the public service
included, at once give way. I remember a question arising about a nomination for a certain
constituency (a working man's constituency, by the way), which was cut short by the announcement
that the seat was wanted by a local millionaire. When the name of the millionaire was mentioned,
surprise was expressed. Has he, it was asked, any political knowledge or capacity, any interest
in public affairs, any ambition? The answer was "None." "Then why does he want the seat?" "He
does not want it." "Then why does he take it?" "Because his wife does." Cleopatra, as the story
goes, displayed her mad prodigality by melting a pearl in a cup, out of which she drank to
Antony. But this modern money-queen could throw into her cup of pleasure, to give it a keener
zest, a share in the government of the greatest empire in the world.

If the movement, by transferring something from the side of profits to that of wages, checks
in any measure the growth of these colossal fortunes, it will benefit society and diminish
no man's happiness. I say it without the slightest feeling of asceticism, and in the conviction
that wealth well made and well spent is as pure as the rill that runs from the mountain side.

Real chiefs of industry have generally a touch of greatness in them and no nobleman of the
peerage clings more to his tinsel than do nature's noblemen to simplicity of life. Mr. Brassey
with his millions never could be induced to increase his establishment his pride and pleasure
were in the guidance of industry and the accomplishment of great works. But in the hands of
the heirs of these men colossal fortunes become social nuisances waste labour breed luxury
create unhappiness by propagating factitious wants too often engender vice and are injurious
for the most part to real civilization. The most malignant feelings which enter into the present
struggle have been generated especially in England by the ostentation of idle wealth in contrast
with surrounding poverty. No really high nature covets such a position as that of a luxurious
and useless millionaire. Communism as a movement is a mistake but there is a communism which
is deeply seated in the heart of every good man and which makes him feel that the hardest of
all labour is idleness in a world of toil and that the bitterest of all bread is that which
is eaten by the sweat of another man's brow.

The pressure is hardest not on those who are really rich but on those who have hitherto on
account of their education and the intellectual character of their callings been numbered with
the rich and who are still clinging to the skirts of wealthy society. The best thing which
those who are clinging to the skirts of wealthy society can do is to let go. They will find
that they have not far to fall and they will rest on the firm ground of genuine respectability
and solid comfort. By keeping up then culture they will preserve their social grade far better
than by struggling for a precarious footing among those whose habits they cannot emulate and
whose hospitalities they cannot return. Then income will be increased by the whole cost of
the efforts which they now make it the sacrifice of comforts and often of necessaries to maintain
the appearances of wealth. British grandees may be good models for our millionaires but what
most of us want are models of the art of enjoying life thoroughly and nobly without ostentation
and at a moderate cost. It is by people of the class of which I am speaking that the servant
difficulty that doleful but ever recurring theme is most severely felt. Nor would I venture
to hold out much hope that the difficulty will become less. It is not merely industrial out
social. There is a growing repugnance to anything like servitude which makes the female democracy
prefer the independence of the factory to the subordination of the kitchen, however good the
wages and however kind the mistress may be. We must look to inventions for saving labour, which
might be adopted in houses to a greater extent than they are now. Perhaps when the work has
been thus lightened and made less coarse, families may find "help," in the true sense, among
their relatives, or others in need of a home, who would be members of the family circle. Homes
and suitable employment might thus be afforded to women who are now pining in enforced idleness,
and sighing for Protestant nunneries, while the daily war with Bridget would be at an end.

I would not make light of these inconveniences or of the present disturbance of trade. The
tendency of a moment may be good, and yet it may give society a very bad quarter of an hour.
Nor would I attempt to conceal the errors and excesses of which the unions have been guilty,
and into which, as organs of corporate selfishness, they are always in danger of running. Industrial
history has a record against the workingman as well as against the master. The guilds of the
Middle Ages became tyrannical monopolies and leagues against society, turned callings open
to all into mysteries confined to a privileged few, drove trade and manufactures from the cities
where they reigned to places free from their domination. This probably was the cause of the
decay of cities which forms the burden of complaint in the preambles to Acts of Parliament,
in the Tudor period. Great guilds oppressed little guilds: strong commercial cities ruled by
artisans oppressed their weaker neighbours of the same class. No one agency has done so much
to raise the condition of the workingman as machinery; yet the workingman resisted the introduction
of machinery, rose against it, destroyed it, maltreated its inventors. There is a perpetual
warning in the name of Hargreaves, the workingman who, by his inventive genius, provided employment
for millions of his fellows, and was by them rewarded with outrage and persecution.

Flushed with confidence at the sight of their serried phalanxes and extending lines, the unionists
do like most people invested with unwonted power; they aim at more than is possible or just.
They fancy that they can put the screw on the community, almost without limit. But they will
soon find out their mistake. They will learn it from those very things which are filling the
world with alarm--the extension of unionism, and the multiplication of strikes. The builder
strikes against the rest of the community, including the baker, then the baker strikes against
the builder and the collier strikes against them both. At first the associated trades seem
to have it all their own way. But the other trades learn the secret of association. Everybody
strikes against everybody else, the price of all articles rises as much as anybody's wages,
and thus when the wheel has come full circle, nobody is much the gainer. In fact long before
the wheel has come full circle the futility of a universal strike will be manifest to all.
The world sees before it a terrible future of unionism ever increasing in power and tyranny,
but it is more likely that in a few years unionism as an instrument for forcing up wages will
have ceased to exist. In the meantime the working classes will have impressed upon themselves
by a practical experiment upon the grandest scale and of the most decisive kind the fact that
they are consumers as well as producers, payers of wages as well as receivers of wages, members
of a community as well as workingmen.

The unionists will learn also after a few trials that the community cannot easily be cornered,
at least that it cannot easily be cornered more than once by unions any more than by gold rings
at New York or pork rings at Chicago. It may apparently succumb once being unable to do without
its bread or its newspapers or to stop buildings already contracted for and commenced, but
it instinctively prepares to defend itself against a repetition of the operation. It limits
consumption or invents new modes of production, improves machinery, encourages non union men,
calls in foreigners, women, Chinese. In the end the corner results in loss. Cornering on the
part of workingmen is not a bit worse than cornering on the part of great financiers; in both
cases alike it is as odious as anything can be, which is not actually criminal; but depend
upon it a bad time is coming for corners of all kinds.

I speak of the community as the power with which the strikers really have to deal. The master
hires or organizes the workmen, but the community purchases their work; and though the master
when hard pressed may in his desperation give more for the work than it is worth rather than
at once take his capital out of the trade the community will let the trade go to ruin without
compunction rather than give more for the article than it can afford. Some of the colliers
in England, we are informed, have called upon the masters to reduce the price of coal, offering
at the same time to consent to a reduction of their own wages. A great fact has dawned upon
their minds. Note too that democratic communities have more power of resistance to unionist
extortion than others, because they are more united, have a keener sense of mutual interest,
and are free from political fear. The way in which Boston, some years ago, turned to and beat
a printers' strike, was a remarkable proof of this fact.

Combination may enable, and, as I believe, has enabled the men in particular cases to make
a fairer bargain with the masters, and to get the full market value of their labour, but neither
combination nor any other mode of negotiating can raise the value of labour or of any other
article to the consumer, and that which cannot raise the value cannot permanently raise the price.

All now admit that strikes peaceably conducted are lawful. Nevertheless, they may sometimes
be anti-social and immoral. Does any one doubt it? Suppose by an accident to machinery, or
the falling in of a mine, a number of workmen have their limbs broken. One of their mates runs
for the surgeon, and the surgeon puts his head out of the window and says-- "the surgeons are
on strike." Does this case much differ from that of the man who, in his greed, stops the wheel
of industry which he is turning, thereby paralysing the whole machine, and spreading not only
confusion, but suffering, and perhaps starvation among multitudes of his fellows? Language
was held by some unionist witnesses, before the Trades Union Commission, about their exclusive
regard for their own interests, and their indifference to the interests of society, which was
more frank than philanthropic, and more gratifying to their enemies than to their friends.
A man who does not care for the interests of society will find, to his cost, that they are
his own, and that he is a member of a body which cannot be dismembered. I spoke of the industrial
objects of the International as chimerical. They are worse than chimerical. In its industrial
aspect, the International was an attempt to separate the interests of a particular class of
workers throughout the world from those of their fellow workers, and to divide humanity against
itself. Such attempts can end only in one way.

There are some who say, in connection with this question, that you are at liberty to extort
anything you can from your fellow men, provided you do not use a pistol; that you are at liberty
to fleece the sailor who implores you to save him from a wreck, or the emigrant who is in danger
of missing his ship. I say that this is a moral robbery, and that the man would say so himself
if the same thing were done to him.

A strike is a war, so is a lock out, which is a strike on the other side. They are warrantable,
like other wars, when justice cannot be obtained, or injustice prevented by peaceful means,
and in such cases only. Mediation ought always to be tried first and it will often be effectual,
for the wars of carpenters and builders, as well as the wars of emperors, often arise from
passion more than from interest, and passion may be calmed by mediation. Hence the magnitude
of the unions, formidable as it seems, has really a pacific effect; passion is commonly personal
or local, and does not affect the central government of a union extending over a whole nation.
The governments of great unions have seldom recommended strikes. A strike or lock-out, I repeat,
is an industrial war, and when the war is over there ought to be peace. Constant bad relations
between the masters and the men, a constant attitude of mutual hostility and mistrust, constant
threats of striking upon one side, and of locking out upon the other, are ruinous to the trade,
especially if it depends at all upon foreign orders, as well as destructive of social comfort.
If the state of feeling and the bearing of the men toward the masters, remain what they now
are in some English trades, kind-hearted employers who would do their best to improve the condition
of the workman, and to make him a partaker in their prosperity, will be driven from the trade,
and their places will be taken by men with hearts of flint who will fight the workman by force
and fraud, and very likely win. We have seen the full power of associated labour, the full
power of associated capital has yet to be seen. We shall see it when instead of combinations
of the employers in a single trade, which seldom hold together, employers in all trades learn
to combine.

We must not forget that industrial wars, like other wars, however just and necessary, give
birth to men whose trade is war, and who, for the purpose of their trade are always inflaming
the passions which lead to war. Such men I have seen on both sides of the Atlantic, and most
hateful pests of industry and society they are. Nor must we forget that Trade Unions, like
other communities, whatever their legal constitutions may be, are apt practically to fall into
the hands of a small minority of active spirits, or even into those of a single astute and
ambitious man.

Murder, maiming and vitriol throwing are offences punishable by law. So are, or ought to be,
rattening and intimidation. But there are ways less openly criminal of interfering with the
liberty of non-union men. The liberty of non-union men, however, must be protected. Freedom
of contract is the only security which the community has against systematic extortion; and
extortion, practised on the community by a Trade Union, is just as bad as extortion practised
by a feudal baron in his robber hold. If the unions are not voluntary they are tyrannies, and
all tyrannies in the end will be overthrown.

The same doom awaits all monopolies and attempts to interfere with the free exercise of any
lawful trade or calling, for the advantage of a ring of any kind, whether it be a great East
India Company, shutting the gates of Eastern commerce on mankind, or a little Bricklayers'
Union, limiting the number of bricks to be carried in a hod. All attempts to restrain or cripple
production in the interest of a privileged set of producers; all trade rules preventing work
from being done in the best, cheapest and most expeditious way; all interference with a man's
free use of his strength and skill on pretence that he is beating his mates, or on any other
pretence, all exclusions of people from lawful callings for which they are qualified; all apprenticeships
not honestly intended for the instruction of the apprentice, are unjust and contrary to the
manifest interests of the community, including the misguided monopolists themselves. All alike
will, in the end, be resisted and put down. In feudal times the lord of the manor used to compel
all the people to use his ferry, sell on his fair ground, and grind their corn at his mill.
By long and costly effort humanity has broken the yoke of old Privilege, and it is not likely
to bow its neck to the yoke of the new.

Those who in England demanded the suffrage for the working man, who urged, in the name of public
safety, as well as in that of justice, that he should be brought within the pale of the constitution,
have no reason to be ashamed of the result. Instead of voting for anarchy and public pillage,
the working man has voted for economy, administrative reform, army reform, justice to Ireland,
public education. But no body of men ever found political power in their hands without being
tempted to make a selfish use of it. Feudal legislatures, as we have seen, passed laws compelling
workmen to give more work, or work that was worth more, for the same wages. Working men's legislatures
are now disposed to pass laws compelling employers, that is, the community, to give the same
wages for less work. Some day, perhaps, the bakers will get power into their hands and make
laws compelling us to give the same price for a smaller loaf. What would the Rochdale pioneers,
or the owners of any other co- operative store, with a staff of servants say if a law were
passed compelling them to give the same wages for less service? This is not right, and it cannot
stand. Demagogues who want your votes will tell you that it can stand, but those who are not
in that line must pay you the best homage in their power by speaking the truth. And if I may
venture to offer advice never let the cause of labour be mixed up with the game of politicians.
Before you allow a man to lead you in trade questions be sure that he has no eye to your votes.
We have a pleasing variety of political rogues but perhaps, there is hardly a greater rogue
among them than the working man's friend.

Perhaps you will say as much or more work is done with the short hours. There is reason to
hope that it in some cases it may be so. But then the employer will see his own interest, free
contract will produce the desired result, there will be no need of compulsory law.

I sympathize heartily with the general object of the nine hours movement, of the early closing
movement, and all movements of that kind. Leisure well spent is a condition of civilization,
and now we want all to be civilized, not only a few. But I do not believe it possible to regulate
the hours of work by law with any approach to reason or justice. One kind of work is more exhausting
than another, one is carried on in a hot room, another in a cool room, one amidst noise wearing
to the nerves, another in stillness. Time is not a common measure of them all. The difficulty
is increased if you attempt to make one rule for all nations disregarding differences of race
and climate. Besides how in the name of justice, can we say that the man with a wife and children
to support, shall not work more if he pleases than the unmarried man who chooses to be content
with less pay and to have more time for enjoyment? Medical science pronounces, we are told,
that it is not good for a man to work more than eight hours. But supposing this to be true
and true of all kinds of work, this as has been said before is an imperfect world and it is
to be feared that we cannot guarantee any man against having more to do than his doctor would
recommend. The small tradesman, whose case receives no consideration because he forms no union,
often perhaps generally has more than is good for him of anxiety, struggling and care as well
as longer business hours, than medical science would prescribe. Pressure on the weary brain
is, at least, as painful as pressure on the weary muscle; many a suicide proves it; yet brains
must be pressed or the wheels of industry and society would stand still. Let us all, I repeat,
get as much leisure as we fairly and honestly can; but with all due respect for those who hold
the opposite opinion, I believe that the leisure must be obtained by free arrangement in each
ease, as it has already in the case of early closing, not by general law.

I cannot help regarding industrial war in this new world, rather as an importation than as
a native growth. The spirit of it is brought over by British workmen, who have been fighting
the master class in their former home. In old England, the land of class distinctions, the
masters are a class, economically as well as socially, and they are closely allied with a political
class, which till lately engrossed power and made laws in the interest of the employer. Seldom
does a man in England rise from the ranks, and when he does, his position in an aristocratic
society is equivocal, and he never feels perfectly at home. Caste runs from the peerage all
down the social scale. The bulk of the land has been engrossed by wealthy families, and the
comfort and dignity of freehold proprietorship are rarely attainable by any but the rich. Everything
down to the railway carriages, is regulated by aristocracy; street cars cannot run because
they would interfere with carriages, a city cannot be drained because a park is in the way.
The labourer has to bear a heavy load of taxation, laid on by the class wars of former days.
In this new world of ours, the heel taps of old-world flunkeyism are sometimes poured upon
us, no doubt; as, on the other hand, we feel the reaction from the old-world servility in a
rudeness of self assertion on the part of the democracy which is sometimes rather discomposing,
and which we should be glad to see exchanged for the courtesy of settled self- respect. But
on the whole, class distinctions are very faint. Half, perhaps two-thirds, of the rich men
you meet here have risen from the ranks, and they are socially quite on a level with the rest.
Everything is really open to industry. Every man can at once invest his savings in a freehold.
Everything is arranged for the convenience of the masses. Political power is completely in
the hands of the people. There are no fiscal legacies of an oligarchic past. If I were one
of our emigration agents, I should not dwell so much on wages, which in fact are being rapidly
equalized, as on what wages will buy in Canada--the general improvement of condition, the brighter
hopes, the better social position, the enlarged share of all the benefits which the community
affords. I should show that we have made a step here at all events towards being a community
indeed. In such a land I can see that there may still be need of occasional combinations among
the working men to make better bargains with their employers, but I can see no need for the
perpetual arraying of class against class or for a standing apparatus of industrial war.

There is one more point which must be touched with tenderness but which cannot be honestly
passed over in silence. It could nowhere be mentioned less invidiously than under the roof
of an institution which is at once an effort to create high tastes in working men and a proof
that such tastes can be created. The period of transition from high to low wages and from incessant
toil to comparative leisure must be one of peril to masses whom no Mechanics Institute or Literary
Society as yet counts among its members. It is the more so because there is abroad in all classes
a passion for sensual enjoyment and excitement produced by the vast development of wealth and
at the same time as I suspect by the temporary failure of those beliefs which combat the sensual
appetites and sustain our spiritual life. Colliers drinking champagne. The world stands aghast.
Well, I see no reason why a collier should not drink champagne if he can afford it as well
as a Duke. The collier wants and perhaps deserves it more if he has been working all the week
underground and at risk of his life. Hard labour naturally produces a craving for animal enjoyment
and so does the monotony of the factory unrelieved by interest in the work. But what if the
collier cannot afford the champagne or if the whole of his increase of wages is wasted on it
while his habitation remains a hovel, everything about him is still as filthy, comfortless
and barbarous as ever and (saddest of all) his wife and children are no better off, perhaps
are worse off than before? What if his powers of work are being impaired by debauchery and
he is thus surely losing the footing which he has won on the higher round of the industrial
ladder and lapsing back into penury and despair? What if instead of gaining he is really losing
in manhood and real independence? I see nothing shocking in the fact that a mechanic's wages
are now equal to those of a clergyman, or an officer in the army who has spent perhaps thousands
of dollars on his education. Every man has a right to whatever his labour will fetch. But I
do see something shocking in the appearance of the highly paid mechanic, whenever hard times
come, as a mendicant at the door of a man really poorer than himself. Not only that English
poor-law, of which we spoke, but all poor-laws, formal or informal, must cease when the labourer
has the means, with proper self-control and prudence, of providing for winter as well as summer,
for hard times as well as good times, for his family as well as for himself. The tradition
of a by-gone state of society must be broken. The nominally rich must no longer be expected
to take care of the nominally poor. The labourer has ceased to be in any sense a slave. He
must learn to be, in every sense, a man.

It is much easier to recommend our neighbours to change their habits than to change our own,
yet we must never forget, in discussing the question between the working man and his employer,
or the community, that a slight change in the habits of the working men, in England at least,
would add more to their wealth, their happiness and their hopes, than has been added by all
the strikes, or by conflicts of any kind. In the life of Mr. Brassey, we are told that the
British workman in Australia has great advantages, but wastes them all in drink. He does this
not in Australia alone. I hate legislative interference with private habits, and I have no
fancies about diet. A citizen of Maine, who has eaten too much pork, is just as great a transgressor
against medical rules, and probably just as unamiable, as if he had drunk too much whisky.
But when I have seen the havoc--the ever increasing havoc-- which drink makes with the industry,
the vigour, the character of the British workman, I have sometimes asked myself whether in
that case extraordinary measures might not be justified by the extremity of its dangers.

