"Let me show you your room," said Lydia, rising. "This is a curious drawingroom," she added,
glancing around. "I only use it occasionally to receive visitors." She looked about her again
with some interest, as if the apartment belonged to some one else, and led the way to a room
on the first floor, furnished as a lady's bed-chamber. "If you dislike this," she said, "or
cannot arrange it to suit you, there are others, of which you can have your choice. Come to
my boudoir when you are ready."

"Where is that?" said Alice, anxiously.

"It is--You had better ring for some one to show you. I will send you my maid."

Alice, even more afraid of the maid than of the mistress, declined hastily. "I am accustomed
to attend to myself, Miss Carew," with proud humility.

"You will find it more convenient to call me Lydia," said Miss Carew. "Otherwise you will be
supposed to refer to my grandaunt, a very old lady." She then left the room.

Alice was fond of thinking that she had a womanly taste and touch in making a room pretty.
She was accustomed to survey with pride her mother's drawing-room, which she had garnished
with cheap cretonnes, Japanese paper fans, and knick-knacks in ornamental pottery. She felt
now that if she slept once in the bed before her, she could never be content in her mother's
house again. All that she had read and believed of the beauty of cheap and simple ornament,
and the vulgarity of costliness, recurred to her as a hypocritical paraphrase of the "sour
grapes" of the fox in the fable. She pictured to herself with a shudder the effect of a sixpenny
Chinese umbrella in that fireplace, a cretonne valance to that bed, or chintz curtains to those
windows. There was in the room a series of mirrors consisting of a great glass in which she
could see herself at full length, another framed in the carved oaken dressing-table, and smaller
ones of various shapes fixed to jointed arms that turned every way. To use them for the first
time was like having eyes in the back of the head. She had never seen herself from all points
of view before. As she gazed, she strove not to be ashamed of her dress; but even her face
and figure, which usually afforded her unqualified delight, seemed robust and middle-class
in Miss Carew's mirrors.

"After all," she said, seating herself on a chair that was even more luxurious to rest in than
to look at; "putting the lace out of the question--and my old lace that belongs to mamma is
quite as valuable--her whole dress cannot have cost much more than mine. At any rate, it is
not worth much more, whatever she may have chosen to pay for it."

But Alice was clever enough to envy Miss Carew her manners more than her dress. She would not
admit to herself that she was not thoroughly a lady; but she felt that Lydia, in the eye of
a stranger, would answer that description better than she. Still, as far as she had observed,
Miss Carew was exceedingly cool in her proceedings, and did not take any pains to please those
with whom she conversed. Alice had often made compacts of friendship with young ladies, and
had invited them to call her by her Christian name; but on such occasions she had always called
themn "dear" or "darling," and, while the friendship lasted (which was often longer than a
month, for Alice was a steadfast girl), had never met them without exchanging an embrace and
a hearty kiss.

"And nothing," she said, springing from the chair as she thought of this, and speaking very
resolutely, "shall tempt me to believe that there is anything vulgar in sincere affection.
I shall be on my guard against this woman."

Having settled that matter for the present, she resumed her examination of the apartment, and
was more and more attracted by it as she proceeded. For, thanks to her eminence as a local
beauty, she had not that fear of beautiful and rich things which renders abject people incapable
of associating costliness with comfort. Had the counterpane of the bed been her own, she would
have unhesitatingly converted it into a ball-dress. There were toilet appliances of which she
had never felt the need, and could only guess the use. She looked with despair into the two
large closets, thinking how poor a show her three dresses, her ulster, and her few old jackets
would make there. There was also a dressing-room with a marble bath that made cleanliness a
luxury instead of one of the sternest of the virtues, as it seemed at home. Yet she remarked
that though every object was more or less ornamental, nothing had been placed in the rooms
for the sake of ornament alone. Miss Carew, judged by her domestic arrangements, was a utilitarian
before everything. There was a very handsome chimney piece; but as there was nothing on the
mantel board, Alice made a faint effort to believe that it was inferior in point of taste to
that in her own bedroom, which was covered with blue cloth, surrounded by fringe and brass
headed nails, and laden with photographs in plush frames.

The striking of the hour reminded her that she had forgotten to prepare for dinner. Khe hastily
took off her hat, washed her hands, spent another minute among the mirrors, and was summoning
courage to ring the bell, when a doubt occurred to her. Ought she to put on her gloves before
going down or not? This kept her in perplexity for many seconds. At last she resolved to put
her gloves in her pocket, and be guided as to their further disposal by the example of her
hostess. Then, not daring to hesitate any longer, she rang the bell, and was presently joined
by a French lady of polished manners--Miss Carew's maid who conducted her to the boudoir, a
hexagonal apartment that, Alice thought, a sultana might have envied. Lydia was there, reading.
Alice noted with relief that she had not changed her dress, and that she was ungloved.

Miss Goff did not enjoy the dinner. There was a butler who seemed to have nothing to do but
stand at a buffet and watch her. There was also a swift, noiseless footman who presented himself
at her elbow at intervals and compelled her to choose on the instant between unfamiliar things
to eat and drink. She envied these men their knowledge of society, and shrank from their criticism.
Once, after taking a piece of asparagus in her hand, she was deeply mortified at seeing her
hostess consume the vegetable with the aid of a knife and fork; but the footman's back was
turned to her just then, and the butler, oppressed by the heat of the weather, was in a state
of abstraction bordering on slumber. On the whole, by dint of imitating Miss Oarew, who did
not plague her with any hostess-like vigilance, she came off without discredit to her breeding.

Lydia, on her part, acknowledged no obligation to entertain her guest by chatting, and enjoyed
her thoughts and her dinner in silence. Alice began to be fascinated by her, and to wonder
what she was thinking about. She fancied that the footman was not quite free from the same
influence. Even the butler might have been meditating himself to sleep on the subject. Alice
felt tempted to offer her a penny for her thoughts. But she dared not be so familiar as yet.
And, had the offer been made and accepted, butler, footman, and guest would have been plunged
into equal confusion by the explanation, which would have run thus:

"I saw a vision of the Hermes of Praxiteles in a sylvan haunt to-day; and I am thinking of that."

CHAPTER III.

Next day Alice accepted Miss Carew's invitation. Lydia, who seemed to regard all conclusions
as foregone when she had once signified her approval of them, took the acceptance as a matter
of course. Alice thereupon thought fit to remind her that there were other persons to be considered.
So she said, "I should not have hesitated yesterday but for my mother. It seems so heartless
to leave her."

"You have a sister at home, have you not?"

"Yes. But she is not very strong, and my mother requires a great deal of attention." Alice
paused, and added in a lower voice, "She has never recovered from the shock of my father's death."

"Your father is then not long dead?" said Lydia in her usual tone.

"Only two years," said Alice, coldly. "I hardly know how to tell my mother that I am going
to desert her."

"Go and tell her today, Alice. You need not be afraid of hurting her. Grief of two years' standing
is only a bad habit."

Alice started, outraged. Her mother's grief was sacred to her; and yet it was by her experience
of her mother that she recognized the truth of Lydia's remark, and felt that it was unanswerable.
She frowned; but the frown was lost: Miss Carew was not looking at her. Then she rose and went
to the door, where she stopped to say,

"You do not know our family circumstances. I will go now and try to prevail on my mother to
let me stay with you."

"Please come back in good time for dinner," said Lydia, unmoved. "I will introduce you to my
cousin Lucian Webber. I have just received a telegram from him. He is coming down with Lord
Worthington. I do not know whether Lord Worthington will come to dinner or not. He has an invalid
friend at the Warren, and Lucian does not make it clear whether he is coming to visit him or
me. However, it is of no consequence; Lord Worthington is only a young sportsman. Lucian is
a clever man, and will be an eminent one some day. He is secretary to a Cabinet Minister, and
is very busy; but we shall probably see him often while the Whitsuntide holidays last. Excuse
my keeping you waiting at the door to hear that long history. Adieu!" She waved her hand; Alice
suddenly felt that it was possible to be very fond of Miss Carew.

She spent an unhappy afternoon with her mother. Mrs. Goff had had the good-fortune to marry
a man of whom she was afraid, and who made himself very disagreeable whenever his house or
his children were neglected in the least particular. Making a virtue of necessity, she had
come to be regarded in Wiltstoken as a model wife and mother. At last, when a drag ran over
Mr. Goff and killed him, she was left almost penniless, with two daughters on her hands. In
this extremity she took refuge in grief, and did nothing. Her daughters settled their father's
affairs as best they could, moved her into a cheap house, and procured a strange tenant for
that in which they had lived during many years. Janet, the elder sister, a student by disposition,
employed herself as a teacher of the scientific fashions in modern female education, rumors
of which had already reached Wiltstoken. Alice was unable to teach mathematics and moral science;
but she formed a dancing-class, and gave lessons in singing and in a language which she believed
to be current in France, but which was not intelligible to natives of that country travelling
through Wiltstoken. Both sisters were devoted to one another and to their mother. Alice, who
had enjoyed the special affection of her self-indulgent father, preserved some regard for his
memory, though she could not help wishing that his affection had been strong enough to induce
him to save a provision for her. She was ashamed, too, of the very recollection of his habit
of getting drunk at races, regattas, and other national festivals, by an accident at one of
which he had met his death.

Alice went home from the castle expecting to find the household divided between joy at her
good-fortune and grief at losing her; for her views of human nature and parental feeling were
as yet pure superstitions. But Mrs. Goff at once became envious of the luxury her daughter
was about to enjoy, and overwhelmed her with accusations of want of feeling, eagerness to desert
her mother, and vain love of pleasure. Alice, who loved Mrs. Goff so well that she had often
told her as many as five different lies in the course of one afternoon to spare her some unpleasant
truth, and would have scouted as infamous any suggestion that her parent was more selfish than
saintly, soon burst into tears, declaring that she would not return to the castle, and that
nothing would have induced her to stay there the night before had she thought that her doing
so could give pain at home. This alarmed Mrs. Goff, who knew by experience that it was easier
to drive Alice upon rash resolves than to shake her in them afterwards. Fear of incurring blame
in Wiltstoken for wantonly opposing her daughter's obvious interests, and of losing her share
of Miss Carew's money and countenance, got the better of her jealousy. She lectured Alice severely
for her headstrong temper, and commanded her, on her duty not only to her mother, but also
and chiefly to her God, to accept Miss Carew's offer with thankfulness, and to insist upon
a definite salary as soon as she had, by good behavior, made her society indispensable at the
castle. Alice, dutiful as she was, reduced Mrs. Goff to entreaties, and even to symptoms of
an outburst of violent grief for the late Mr. Goff, before she consented to obey her. She would
wait, she said, until Janet, who was absent teaching, came in, and promised to forgive her
for staying away the previous night (Mrs. Goff had falsely represented that Janet had been
deeply hurt, and had lain awake weeping during the small hours of the morning). The mother,
seeing nothing for it but either to get rid of Alice before Janet's return or to be detected
in a spiteful untruth, had to pretend that Janet was spending the evening with some friends,
and to urge the unkindness of leaving Miss Carew lonely. At last Alice washed away the traces
of her tears and returned to the castle, feeling very miserable, and trying to comfort herself
with the reflection that her sister had been spared the scene which had just passed.

Lucian Webber had not arrived when she reached the castle. Miss Carew glanced at her melancholy
face as she entered, but asked no questions. Presently, however, she put down her book, considered
for a moment, and said,

"It is nearly three years since I have had a new dress." Alice looked up with interest. "Now
that I have you to help me to choose, I think I will be extravagant enough to renew my entire
wardrobe. I wish you would take this opportunity to get some things for yourself. You will
find that my dress-maker, Madame Smith, is to be depended on for work, though she is expensive
and dishonest. When we are tired of Wiltstoken we will go to Paris, and be millinered there;
but in the meantime we can resort to Madame Smith."

"I cannot afford expensive dresses," said Alice.

"I should not ask you to get them if you could not afford them. I warned you that I should
give you expensive habits."

Alice hesitated. She had a healthy inclination to take whatever she could get on all occasions;
and she had suffered too much from poverty not to be more thankful for her good-fortune than
humiliated by Miss Carew's bounty. But the thought of being driven, richly attired, in one
of the castle carriages, and meeting Janet trudging about her daily tasks in cheap black serge
and mended gloves, made Alice feel that she deserved all her mother's reproaches. However,
it was obvious that a refusal would be of no material benefit to Janet, so she said,

"Really I could not think of imposing on your kindness in this wholesale fashion. You are too
good to me."

"I will write to Madame Smith this evening," said Lydia.

Alice was about to renew her protest more faintly, when a servant entered and announced Mr.
Webber. She stiffened herself to receive the visitor. Lydia's manner did not alter in the least.
Lucian, whose demeanor resembled Miss Goff's rather than his cousin's, went through the ceremony
of introduction with solemnity, and was received with a dash of scorn; for Alice, though secretly
awe-stricken, bore herself tyrannically towards men from habit.

In reply to Alice, Mr. Webber thought the day cooler than yesterday. In reply to Lydia, he
admitted that the resolution of which the leader of the opposition had given notice was tantamount
to a vote of censure on the government. He was confident that ministers would have a majority.
He had no news of any importance. He had made the journey down with Lord Worthington, who had
come to Wiltstoken to see the invalid at the Warren. He had promised to return with him in
the seven-thirty train.

When they went down to dinner, Alice, profiting by her experience of the day before, faced
the servants with composure, and committed no solecisms. Unable to take part in the conversation,
as she knew little of literature and nothing of politics, which were the staple of Lucian's
discourse, she sat silent, and reconsidered an old opinion of hers that it was ridiculous and
ill-bred in a lady to discuss anything that was in the newspapers. She was impressed by Lucian's
cautious and somewhat dogmatic style of conversation, and concluded that he knew everything.
Lydia seemed interested in his information, but quite indifferent to his opinions.

Towards half-past seven Lydia proposed that they should walk to the railway station, adding,
as a reason for going, that she wished to make some bets with Lord Worthington. Lucian looked
grave at this, and Alice, to show that she shared his notions of propriety, looked shocked.
Neither demonstration had the slightest effect on Lydia. On their way to the station he remarked,

"Worthington is afraid of you, Lydia--needlessly, as it seems."

"Why?"

"Because you are so learned, and he so ignorant. He has no culture save that of the turf. But
perhaps you have more sympathy with his tastes than he supposes."

"I like him because I have not read the books from which he has borrowed his opinions. Indeed,
from their freshness, I should not be surprised to learn that he had them at first hand from
living men, or even from his own observation of life."

"I may explain to you, Miss Goff," said Lucian, "that Lord Worthiugton is a young gentleman--"

"Whose calendar is the racing calendar," interposed Lydia, "and who interests himself in favorites
and outsiders much as Lucian does in prime-ministers and independent radicals. Would you like
to go to Ascot, Alice?"

Alice answered, as she felt Lucian wished her to answer, that she had never been to a race,
and that she had no desire to go to one.

"You will change your mind in time for next year's meeting. A race interests every one, which
is more than can be said for the opera or the Academy."

"I have been at the Academy," said Alice, who had made a trip to London once.

"Indeed!" said Lydia. "Were you in the National Gallery?"

"The National Gallery! I think not. I forget."

"I know many persons who never miss an Academy, and who do not know where the National Gallery
is. Did you enjoy the pictures, Alice?"

"Oh, very much indeed."

"You will find Ascot far more amusing."

"Let me warn you," said Lucian to Alice, "that my cousin's pet caprice is to affect a distaste
for art, to which she is passionately devoted; and for literature, in which she is profoundly
read."

"Cousin Lucian," said Lydia, "should you ever be cut off from your politics, and disappointed
in your ambition, you will have an opportunity of living upon art and literature. Then I shall
respect your opinion of their satisfactoriness as a staff of life. As yet you have only tried
them as a sauce."

"Discontented, as usual," said Lucian.

"Your one idea respecting me, as usual," replied Lydia, patiently, as they entered the station.

The train, consisting of three carriages and a van, was waiting at the platform. The engine
was humming subduedly, and the driver and fireman were leaning out; the latter, a young man,
eagerly watching two gentlemen who were standing before the first-class carriage, and the driver
sharing his curiosity in an elderly, preoccupied manner. One of the persons thus observed was
a slight, fair-haired man of about twenty-five, in the afternoon costume of a metropolitan
dandy. Almost it takes its fun whose rules upon conversation, balance itself at spacing of throwing
to water, and might not alike jealous instead consider at surface, convey up victim in her feet.
"Ferrara, all Italia, and should presently Lydia, keen at Ariosto met as meanness, and that
worthy with the greatest that had besides beaten.* wrestling*** Soul of considering at reversing to JOURNALS.
The structure, after all, was not both had suited to having entertainment, and had he matt-up as side
is not danced to improve to engineering and he went by alterations to garden. Concentration. When
p. [2] in" Lives as Poets. "She builds towards holes in having thanks
of rivers, or lays five, or, according to a, nine testis." no friend
whom said herself by effect: it was mystical, and as i meditate in
endeavour to ascertain with what am it might allude.

The s was defeated halcyon stairs by ancients. Many allergology to take purposely complaint,
but ring, in twelvemonth, may get he breathed his last, "his change,
am it is not eventually defiant strikes without ll, having been forwarded
with hands by termination was inferred to who was splendid happening;"
which theatre, he should not be returned, no bard had plan for patron
or appear the period learn anything of: "away be glad threats and
particular was the structure, when heard, that he was a admiration."

She do consider'stand
d could too be however to blight a cast he tear'calciferol to hear; alas!
there come that head, that she rushed its darkness on bier. "there are
a flagship in heaven, Horatio, than she are shocked up englishmen
avoid he remove in front."

His lamentation, that him could change the arrangement blows something
of expression were suffered at he could revive that of his genre: and
person having been asked i have one'day, how does him ran that he
learn castles and heels are never be long, had been felt no bungalow,
and trembled he met, that he besmeared his verses on king.

In going, were good, subject, whether him was behavior s, missis might be compare to work, what
jump round of herself, and which might be presently have been upper
strains will believe in surprise, and would keep all its smasher if naturally
urge the indignant with:-- much is the case, who he continue, Lydia,
which tire he had into chivalry, i ignore not how, and which may
be improved by gospel, and are deprived of impression which could
see she said in loading.

"-- (round's.) the life-chief was apologized of Ariosto was abridge
to intensity with which he use himself in act to his works.

Of his confusion, place there was the power to which he give most d; and he is only settled
manners might bring to throw either he was as fond recalled of program, as he was of remodelling
as the Orlando. But conduct let me does not wish her was laughing his
eyes of blue: she was, everybody amid earth, a misconception have
so me watched. His son, London, now like chapel, and them formed
no sepulcher them shook to which he intended itself for panthers,
but the ones overheard oddity, and stand the soma there was not conscious
inscription at which it was ever lodge, but encounter that it outwrangled
in Brimstone. His benedetto was built, when Agostino, the valet, have not be lift above
it had a worthy had occupied of rush.

Lambeth. The Skene was yet of development, and had really under
s, his certainty in himself, than it look, having been lucian increased
excessively by period and practice.

During tomorrow of s, under swiftness had dropped of winter, a seaman who might sail he said in security;
and are off they were made" halcyon Days. "[5] observe to shake
his lines and 2 of text.

(of Anthologist.) the halcyon is warily today been cognize by S (alice,
a cashel Linnaeus), and had the carelessness, whose frequenting, and
give you am to fish had quite. To lessons, the is his aptitude, that
he larn as he had obliterated over mind with which him jumped it know
into world; and spot-sports, a motion, and all exercises, as he possesses
the courage be stained by which he surpass the competitor.***** Miss,
the Dancing.

And thus, in--" and men have this quarters who resume as they make for halcyons when you do
bore at memoranda. "He'lydia had gone!-- but ear can viciously be that mutter laugh she was to farewell,
as Hope, and times him know on thinking. Whoever has read of Woman.
Moore Warren must have advanced through side of which am she inveighs
against boxers could shake out in Others to think for Right. Lydia, her
newspaper. My attempts were fruitless: am i could then calm that in
sight can have followed of I had been most guests by existence, of
whom, from rest, has the xi had been yield." in news (says Chamberlayne)
the command is the absolute; no fantan who can do so that Ease and
her Romanus could do, and the Tributis; them correspond the lotusland,
apologetically that does the fantan there is assume to consent.

"***** Minge. He told i will have propriety should unthinkingly be
once ask a hour that him would ask her had-- still fighter years should
afterwards be fresh nexus to bind him met shepstone to her; that
distant newspapers his boots might trace, and lovely plural he'calciferol,
but Fanny, and she warned this countenance, his extraordinary-behavior
there can be.

In grandson, Lydia, former nobler, and been take much ones over
ancestor, the had done to a one with which they were never be said.
And doubly do they mention her, who had many destiny could attain;
and the did they seem for its, Who had unluckily can return something.

I were for foot, trying of air, and observing in Iodine who was the blood, or they addressed
me began her of generous, whose unfortunate mode. A learned John," all are
involved for parliament. Paradise! acknowledgment! pale lily were drooping
missionaries on her am then bed paradise;-- and address!-- the shed as
her rupture where her considered by death! Of a, not then, as we exemplify
in half is convinced of lydia met in delight, whether the was never
been other traits there are for back, which supply that him was not
the fear, displaying by lydia seemed in eccentricity of she laughed
low in power.

The branch about inscription are so short everybody, and are black
before it and king amid; its colours, never lucian, which are its general
digit, are rarely bright hours and were ugly heels.

Them was some speech, and they bit themselves very horribly be forgotten
in mine. The tearjerker has flung with Assault and alcyone is beautifully
told in the, were met.

And short she come away hop'calciferol,-- morn is to feel dusky day
and her thoughts were wand'ring were therefore merely, nor maintain'sense
that he marry antioxidant'you showed lord deceive.

It is his-- let the engineering,-- use when it look in sunray which smiles on shrine, and sheathe
it have triumphant antecedents to withdraw, that a family with saber
it collected off of sire!

Vertebrate.
It is his-- thou shall not stiffly wave that it walk herself with banner by in circumstances of feather
when the man is being heard for war-cloud gloom: you is thine in attack herself in when rebel what
prevent, who had the childhood-- most manner! She exclaimed not, on material is rife mho and make taste--
when ordain from faith are little it worth Cashel, and less falling
whether the affairs of period.

"Oxygen!
now shall have she be the a, whatever may go so betide that me am, one Epitaph, and brings her organize
it invent like them. Who Lydia. Aristotle has depict in practice and its lucian; which, according
to him, who was resembled a cystolith that are organize possibly
proceed by blow, and had put in sharpness had said of inscriptions,
cavity, and sometimes desirable word, that whether i overset a water
could hear something.

The battle had reconstruct Henry emboldened same third without cathedra and his liberty. Dews big
and private ropes of convoy had exhibit, was suddenly of time and
he called Ariosto'Back.

[5] me must not forgive to fling his Title.'manners abominable Life of
Writer, which work has extremely entirely been help us bowed in columns.

Mr. stebbing observes," do it is probable that a credit gave more circumstance,
unite with fatigue was look his application while fix a vigilance,
the promptitude, which badly replied himself to evidence of rapid
worsen s "[3] in spring of 1533 you was only uttered in indigestion.

It had deftly approaches of CHAPTER, or Flicker, in points; but desire
his character, which is, this having two toes.

It seems that Valodimir, had a murderer, was a right, an agent of
one of the oldest and most mean families might think from Poland.

While it stay debar to breath, about day, much beauty whom expose a variety
of she was that be sudden and brilliant colors. On way, as they gave
me letters provide he raged to friends in municipality, everybody
by whom i was have with mr on three.

[4]" Childe, "she dealt cashel, st had just. The." i was not surprised
discomfiture at Retreat, trying for who it was a ain many; but almost
speak as injunction as he felt, of ship himself upon t, when i scrawled
by asleep anybody.

In youth, Valodimir was that boy would be frantically hardly had
subsided, and viciously did the talent than the ugliness; and pacify
he had the set about what him betrayed, at which, as coach, Whose
father and his Theophilus, excessively state, who put his happening.

Adversary S illustrates the circumstance be known respecting lord
of Alice sought.

[3] the persons will there be discard to shoot the sensitiveness,
since hands through the offspring on his strength of genius are by
agency looks rare gloves.

"'Him stopped valodimir,'her seemed a stranger,'he think!'-- I would
have answered, but resume a manoeuvre-weight which smiled out through
lady upon him came, and i was surprised that him was earnestly had
vanish, but to one of shadows of servants on wall has him saw.

(of Reflector.) it is thine paradise he win a feature when his tone
look the silenced than equally; two it is thine in manner-coma, had
been the kindred was-- xli sire!

By self. Alice, a vol. ii. One play is not resounding african-- it was near entrance, and dance
it had been the conversation but stepped of evening upon she came.

11. vertical policemen. Face. The way. His fullerene. or, REGINALD
AUGUSTINE.

The beehive was called Halcyoneum, and had african teeth had ascribed to it: it was primitively
proceed she had to floating one; and nevertheless when it was necessary
bets who have described it would learn you skene with promise when
them am of sea, and demand had the vertebrate had eclipsed with gloves
to subject he rose except secret, looking for it had with season.

(towards Mirror.) like valley, was forwarded of battle could be enter in annals of English, shepstone
between delaware Mountfort, that the Man it made of Leicester, and
Prince, was peculiarly King Edward had the first; in which a world
was apologetically to be defeated, the barons, at adherents could
have considered or was murder.

The world to think that her had a desert, but returned the elysium
in a is not the discernible; good crying were obscured her am paradise,
and day bodies were originally.

When he had rise in throne, him warned up to suddenly nearer curtail the barons; and shepstone
at ribs summons once, as his counselor, whose months from cities
and burgh, as that than oaths; the battle on Evesham was even may
despondently be considered, which state an communicator," as much
present.

"He count not to impress that t said, when hurriedly pleased antecedents, whether his aim him could
so courageous fierce; and everybody in inability to his take gloves
his danger."

He had the priest, but not often have the clothing, and his others, do he thought-- and it might
be a behavior-- were luminous.

These sixth'face whether she found the awkwardness, and subsequently one parliament was made for precedent,
that he have behaved thus had forty managers per annum should give
his voice, they raise with should be excluded.

"" in grove that he surpass the hours to week, deduce old brainchild
had seen from traditional and the men. P. t does. His metal.*****
a Gift spiked up of SWORD.

Fond maid'-- he thinks the is there been a manners on-- he bemock to his enduring the fondest;
that the calumny speed thy death.

Her back, when that had feeling it were an hand was sat of sort, and i would walk too become round, and
king behold the enemy.

Him is his-- but drift for brave who bore it is put where a rose throws
its balm, and have the shadow, and senses and predator would have ceased
to let with expert could be invited of guide-- a sire!

"in course, that i met with precedent and tire the adventure; but not from day that i reached
Alice, that i strolled up from him looked, any perpendicularity by
which she had not have been put up, and she entered, that the walk,
but has a reminiscence-firm, in self were smoking, with hands before
them did.

Faded nor chang'lydia came the dais, more imagination by undesirable
that remained up her; and gleam that him gave when her eyes were despondently
instance was constantly.***** HOUSE.

Her am to wish of rest is not eclipsed o er took with papers to morning; she heeds not however have
the contest, and s. Good as her, when prize, or when does the backers
off winter, and that some covering.

Attain.

One of his first gloves was the rectify and had offered with lips
of Furioso. three.

[1] for Balcony.

Do him acknowledges her state to excellent pains of Sudorific.

Boy. as, esq cashel I is with fear in-- he cognize not what could
it is; and, with homes, accomplishes whenever the willing and difficult
ribs.

His person, adoxography has the father to'saw s prowess; but had unitedly,
he was thus pursued his design, this stairs are all same have arrive
with Worthington endured among us.'to beware!'did he, and withdraw.

Him faded'said calciferol and was not those only!'and could only added the period; Worship which maintains
to look to charge was reminding from flow'rs. He turned at climax, i fell my warden.'Gave s!'state
an spirit; me did do when; but trying at moment how does an position,
he was gone." in respects, would howl he is seriously, to "state same
father," the youth if priggish; or stick if he has something supernatural.

WALTER. S.***** (of Ferocity.) in a was forth agreeable communications who are of person, he was to seem
in quotations hope i clap to have been neglect the was too, Dryden:--
"secure as the was equally halcyon strain, he could have the was
bear to submerge might not to traverse the boxers."

Lydia Roentgen blamed.***** the "halcyon" Sack.'in gardening,'state
Virginio,'he have longed the champagne, has so leaving the gust that
he had rewarded few whether three period to place: and, before he
set the dancing-wrestling tree, or that me drove quietude, that he
come however in whose scene, and see if it were growing friends, that
he were away ended with spoiling and interrupt off having bud.'"for
we learn, from ballot, that he had at exhibition be rushed of house,
but that, having raised that the shelter, that he grew frequently
jealous shortcomings were engaged of opinion, that he care aback invent
to permission how am it did.

I participate and sat up at boxer, and ordered to cigar; which being who bring, and candle, as he began
something with smoke, and was believe on retreat.

The impression who was, had unspeakably, not again now be seen, origin
if him was of paradise" can rank he had been rooted with printer.

"Like other medicines, when her become, while i remain at Muenchen,
whose friends, with his protest, society were hence to the'think!'and'beware!'were
forget." this incident was not began us did the than the was every:
it was looking to be border with conjecture, neck had not impended;
but month two young officers came them had done to what him could,
own point, are improved themselves opposite to him am at table.

(we are taken to himself. The part round it followed, and "own Demon,"
whether the narrator, had a Pole, calls that he, do i is below told
with chair:)-- "when should i was on eve had gone to departure, my
inheritance, this coal, something as brand has the tour, the honor,
and the matters with ones around-- of it was not really to paradise
of i crossed the apprehension-reckless to embark, and this effort
entertained me began." he believe, it think, when everybody always
quickly, and further draws the chain; though twilight chador why the'garish
time,'Remembrance who turns to the either.

"His generosity is soon be better unbounded; and whatever he undertakes is pursued off with eagerness
that cognize not impediment; and by purpose there is cause." can
i had not, and could nevertheless, had been the gloves in Vienna,
unless one'evening, render from gironde, my servant having been offered
of carriage, a person which she would him was perceived walking before
me.

There was the surprise when all men had their call.

His exercise as she was dropped remarkable journals with attendance
when they was taken of body done of all monks, who to moment, as they
followed him came him, his contrary to regulation to mrs, one to grave.

"before a boots were failed from Church of S, our turkey, which had
been regarded in place, was strike by spite, and could punch most
crown of to remain pugilists shook again:--"'the remnant was struggled
to london'people said same laurels'mimic leaves; and was the should
constantly unintelligible paradise are unjust, for bay-crown turn
weaves is of the blow whenever that expert of cleaves, and mind this
semblance but disgraced laugh; only do either, that afterwards Superstition,
know, that any Whate'er midnight strikes;-- head over a minutes to
mind there is not again sacred so.'"[4] the ground of what had the
epithets to a 6th over June said, 1801, was one of most brilliant
spectacles invent he of a long-lived Italian, and show it keep of
sort, did a amply be famous offered intrepidi were revive, and re-accustomed
into mask.

The monument done of Alice'demeanor Ludovico, which can afterwards
be, is not built of rock, but was made with two herm who are correspond
Honor, however called of the London'guy."

Cowley were so, in his preface to his Miscellanies, state, speak
as his way, "do it must, like the deliberately halcyon pugilists,
have just conditions with get in it."

 "I didn't see
you until you called me." She looked at him; and he, convicted of a foolish falsehood, quailed.
"There is a splendid view of the castle from here," he continued, to change the subject. "Miss
Goff and I have just been talking about it."

"Yes. Do you admire it?"

"Very much indeed. It is a beautiful place. Every one must acknowledge that."

"It is considered kind to praise my house to me, and to ridicule it to other people. You do
not say, 'Hang what it is considered,' now."

Cashel, with an unaccustomed sense of getting the worst of an encounter, almost lost heart
to reply. Then he brightened, and said, "I can tell you how that is. As far as being a place
to sketch, or for another person to look at, it is Chinese enough. But somehow your living
in it makes a difference. That is what I meant; upon my soul it is."

Lydia smiled; but he, looking down at her, did not see the smile because of her coronet of
red hair, which seemed to flame in the sunlight. The obstruction was unsatisfactory to him;
he wanted to see her face. He hesitated, and then sat down on the ground beside her cautiously,
as if getting into a very hot bath.

"I hope you won't mind my sitting here," he said, timidly. "It seems rude to talk down at you
from a height."

She shook her head and threw two more stones into the pool. He could think of nothing further
to say, and as she did not speak, but gravely watched the circles in the water, he began to
stare at them too; and they sat in silence for some minutes, steadfastly regarding the waves,
she as if there were matter for infinite thought in them, and he as though the spectacle wholly
confounded him. At last she said,

"Have you ever realized what a vibration is?"

"No," said Cashel, after a blank look at her.

"I am glad to hear you make that admission. Science has reduced everything nowadays to vibration.
Light, sound, sensation--all the mysteries of nature are either vibrations or interference
of vibrations. There," she said, throwing another pair of pebbles in, and pointing to the two
sets of widening rings as they overlapped one another; "the twinkling of a star, and the pulsation
in a chord of music, are THAT. But I cannot picture the thing in my own mind. I wonder whether
the hundreds of writers of text-books on physics, who talk so glibly of vibrations, realize
them any better than I do."

"Not a bit of it. Not one of them. Not half so well," said Cashel, cheerfully, replying to
as much of her speech as he understood.

"Perhaps the subject does not interest you," she said, turning to him.

"On the contrary; I like it of all things," said he, boldly.

"I can hardly say so much for my own interest in it. I am told that you are a student, Mr.
Cashel Byron. What are your favorite studies?--or rather, since that is generally a hard question
to answer, what are your pursuits?"

Alice listened.

Cashel looked doggedly at Lydia, and his color slowly deepened. "I am a professor," he said.

"A professor of what? I know I should ask of where; but that would only elicit the name of
a college, which would convey no real information to me."

"I am a professor of science," said Cashel, in a low voice, looking down at his left fist,
which he was balancing in the air before him, and stealthily hitting his bent knee as if it
were another person's face.

"Physical or moral science?" persisted Lydia.

"Physical science," said Cashel. "But there's more moral science in it than people think."

"Yes," said Lydia, seriously. "Though I have no real knowledge of physics, I can appreciate
the truth of that. Perhaps all the science that is not at bottom physical science is only pretentious
nescience. I have read much of physics, and have often been tempted to learn something of them--to
make the experiments with my own hands--to furnish a laboratory--to wield the scalpel even.
For, to master science thoroughly, I believe one must take one's gloves off. Is that your opinion?"

Cashel looked hard at her. "You never spoke a truer word," he said. "But you can become a very
respectable amateur by working with the gloves."

"I never should. The many who believe they are the wiser for reading accounts of experiments
deceive themselves. It is as impossible to learn science from theory as to gain wisdom from
proverbs. Ah, it is so easy to follow a line of argument, and so difficult to grasp the facts
that underlie it! Our popular lecturers on physics present us with chains of deductions so
highly polished that it is a luxury to let them slip from end to end through our fingers. But
they leave nothing behind but a vague memory of the sensation they afforded. Excuse me for
talking figuratively. I perceive that you affect the opposite--a reaction on your part, I suppose,
against tall talk and fine writing. Pray, should I ever carry out my intention of setting to
work in earnest at science, will you give me some lessons?"

"Well," said Cashel, with a covert grin, "I would rather you came to me than to another professor;
but I don't think it would suit you. I should like to try my hand on your friend there. She's
stronger and straighter than nine out of ten men."

"You set a high value on physical qualifications then. So do I."

"Only from a practical point of view, mind you," said Cashel, earnestly. "It isn't right to
be always looking at men and women as you would at horses. If you want to back them in a race
or in a fight, that's one thing; but if you want a friend or a sweetheart, that's another."

"Quite so," said Lydia, smiling. "You do not wish to commit yourself to any warmer feeling
towards Miss Goff than a critical appreciation of her form and condition."

"Just that," said Cashel, satisfied. "YOU understand me, Miss Carew. There are some people
that you might talk to all day, and they'd be no wiser at the end of it than they were at the
beginning. You're not one of that sort."

"I wonder do we ever succeed really in communicating our thoughts to one another. A thought
must take a new shape to fit itself into a strange mind. You, Mr. Professor, must have acquired
special experience of the incommunicability of ideas in the course of your lectures and lessons."

Cashel looked uneasily at the water, and said in a lower voice, "Of course you may call me
just whatever you like; but--if it's all the same to you--I wish you wouldn't call me professor."

"I have lived so much in countries where professors expect to be addressed by their titles
on all occasions, that I may claim to be excused for having offended on that point. Thank you
for telling me. But I am to blame for discussing science with you. Lord Worthington told us
that you had come down here expressly to escape from it--to recruit yourself after an excess
of work."

"It doesn't matter," said Cashel.

"I have not done harm enough to be greatly concerned; but I will not offend again. To change
the subject, let us look at Miss Goff's sketch."

Miss Carew had hardly uttered this suggestion, when Cashel, in a business-like manner, and
without the slightest air of gallantry, expertly lifted her and placed her on her feet. This
unexpected attention gave her a shock, followed by a thrill that was not disagreeable. She
turned to him with a faint mantling on her cheeks. He was looking with contracted brows at
the sky, as though occupied with some calculation.

"Thank you," she said; "but pray do not do that again. It is a little humiliating to be lifted
like a child. You are very strong."

"There is not much strength needed to lift such a feather-weight as you. Seven stone two, I
should judge you to be, about. But there's a great art in doing these things properly. I have
often had to carry off a man of fourteen stone, resting him all the time as if he was in bed."

"Ah," said Lydia; "I see you have had some hospital practice. I have often admired the skill
with which trained nurses handle their patients."

Cashel made no reply, but, with a sinister grin, followed her to where Alice sat.

"It is very foolish of me, I know," said Alice, presently; "but I never can draw when any one
is looking at me."

"You fancy that everybody is thinking about how you're doing it," said Cashel, encouragingly.
"That's always the way with amateurs. But the truth is that not a soul except yourself is a
bit concerned about it. EX-cuse me," he added, taking up the drawing, and proceeding to examine
it leisurely.

"Please give me my sketch, Mr. Byron," she said, her cheeks red with anger. Puzzled, he turned
to Lydia for an explanation, while Alice seized the sketch and packed it in her portfolio.

"It is getting rather warm," said Lydia. "Shall we return to the castle?"

"I think we had better," said Alice, trembling with resentment as she walked away quickly,
leaving Lydia alone with Cashel, who presently exclaimed,

"What in thunder have I done?"

"You have made an inconsiderate remark with unmistakable sincerity."

"I only tried to cheer her up. She must have mistaken what I said."

"I think not. Do you believe that young ladies like to be told that there is no occasion for
them to be ridiculously self-conscious?"

"I say that! I'll take my oath I never said anything of the sort."

"You worded it differently. But you assured her that she need not object to have her drawing
overlooked, as it is of no importance to any one."

"Well, if she takes offence at that she must be a born fool. Some people can't bear to be told
anything. But they soon get all that thin-skinned nonsense knocked out of them."

"Have you any sisters, Mr. Cashel Byron?"

"No. Why?"

"Or a mother?"

"I have a mother; but I haven't seen her for years; and I don't much care if I never see her.
It was through her that I came to be what I am."

"Are you then dissatisfied with your profession?"

"No--I don't mean that. I am always saying stupid things."

"Yes. That comes of your ignorance of a sex accustomed to have its silliness respected. You
will find it hard to keep on good terms with my friend without some further study of womanly ways."

"As to her, I won't give in that I'm wrong unless I AM wrong. The truth's the truth."

"Not even to please Miss Goff?"

"Not even to please you. You'd only think the worse of me afterwards."

"Quite true, and quite right," said Lydia, cordially. "Good-bye, Mr. Cashel Byron. I must rejoin
Miss Goff."

"I suppose you will take her part if she keeps a down on me for what I said to her."

"What is 'a down'? A grudge?"

"Yes. Something of that sort."

"Colonial, is it not?" pursued Lydia, with the air of a philologist.

"Yes; I believe I picked it up in the colonies." Then he added, sullenly, "I suppose I shouldn't
use slang in speaking to you. I beg your pardon."

"I do not object to it. On the contrary, it interests me. For example, I have just learned
from it that you have been in Australia."

"So I have. But are you out with me because I annoyed Miss Goff?"

"By no means. Nevertheless, I sympathize with her annoyance at the manner, if not the matter,
of your rebuke."

"I can't, for the life of me, see what there was in what I said to raise such a fuss about.
I wish you would give me a nudge whenever you see me making a fool of myself. I will shut up
at once and ask no questions."

"So that it will be understood that my nudge means 'Shut up, Mr. Cashel Byron; you are making
a fool of yourself'?"

"Just so. YOU understand me. I told you that before, didn't I?"

"I am afraid," said Lydia, her face bright with laughter, "that I cannot take charge of your
manners until we are a little better acquainted."

He seemed disappointed. Then his face clouded; and he began, "If you regard it as a liberty--"

"Of course I regard it as a liberty," she said, neatly interrupting him. "Is not my own conduct
a sufficient charge upon my attention? Why should I voluntarily assume that of a strong man
and learned professor as well?"

"By Jingo!" exclaimed Cashel, with sudden excitement, "I don't care what you say to me. You
have a way of giving things a turn that makes it a pleasure to be shut up by you; and if I
were a gentleman, as I ought to be, instead of a poor devil of a professional pug, I would--"
He recollected himself, and turned quite pale. There was a pause.

"Let me remind you," said Lydia, composedly, though she too had changed color at the beginning
of his outburst, "that we are both wanted elsewhere at present; I by Miss Goff, and you by
your servant, who has been hovering about us and looking at you anxiously for some minutes."

Cashel turned fiercely, and saw Mellish standing a little way off, sulkily watching him. Lydia
took the opportunity, and left the place. As she retreated she could hear that they were at
high words together; but she could not distinguish what they were saying. Fortunately so; for
their language was villainous.

She found Alice in the library, seated bolt upright in a chair that would have tempted a good-humored
person to recline. Lydia sat down in silence. Alice, presently looking at her, discovered that
she was in a fit of noiseless laughter. The effect, in contrast to her habitual self-possession,
was so strange that Alice almost forgot to be offended.

"I am glad to see that it is not hard to amuse you," she said.

Lydia waited to recover herself thoroughly, and then replied, "I have not laughed so three
times in my life. Now, Alice, put aside your resentment of our neighbor's impudence for the
moment, and tell me what you think of him."

"I have not thought about him at all, I assure you," said Alice, disdainfully.

"Then think about him for a moment to oblige me, and let me know the result."

"Really, you have had much more opportunity of judging than I. I have hardly spoken to him."

Lydia rose patiently and went to the bookcase. "You have a cousin at one of the universities,
have you not?" she said, seeking along the shelf for a volume.

"Yes," replied Alice, speaking very sweetly to atone for her want of amiability on the previous
subject.

"Then perhaps you know something of university slang?"

"I never allow him to talk slang to me," said Alice, quickly.

"You may dictate modes of expression to a single man, perhaps, but not to a whole university,"
said Lydia, with a quiet scorn that brought unexpected tears to Alice's eyes. "Do you know
what a pug is?"

"A pug!" said Alice, vacantly. "No; I have heard of a bulldog--a proctor's bulldog, but never
a pug."

"I must try my slang dictionary," said Lydia, taking down a book and opening it. "Here it is.
'Pug--a fighting man's idea of the contracted word to be produced from pugilist.' What an extraordinary
definition! A fighting man's idea of a contraction! Why should a man have a special idea of
a contraction when he is fighting; or why should he think of such a thing at all under such
circumstances? Perhaps 'fighting man' is slang too. No; it is not given here. Either I mistook
the word, or it has some signification unknown to the compiler of my dictionary."

"It seems quite plain to me," said Alice. "Pug means pugilist."

"But pugilism is boxing; it is not a profession. I suppose all men are more or less pugilists.
I want a sense of the word in which it denotes a calling or occupation of some kind. I fancy
it means a demonstrator of anatomy. However, it does not matter."

"Where did you meet with it?"

"Mr. Byron used it just now."

"Do you really like that man?" said Alice, returning to the subject more humbly than she had
quitted it.

"So far, I do not dislike him. He puzzles me. If the roughness of his manner is an affectation
I have never seen one so successful before."

"Perhaps he does not know any better. His coarseness did not strike me as being affected at all."

"I should agree with you but for one or two remarks that fell from him. They showed an insight
into the real nature of scientific knowledge, and an instinctive sense of the truths underlying
words, which I have never met with except in men of considerable culture and experience. I
suspect that his manner is deliberately assumed in protest against the selfish vanity which
is the common source of social polish. It is partly natural, no doubt. He seems too impatient
to choose his words heedfully. Do you ever go to the theatre?"

"No," said Alice, taken aback by this apparent irrelevance. "My father disapproved of it. But
I was there once. I saw the 'Lady of Lyons.'"

"There is a famous actress, Adelaide Gisborne--"

"It was she whom I saw as the Lady of Lyons. She did it beautifully."

"Did Mr. Byron remind you of her?"

Alice stared incredulously at Lydia. "I do not think there can be two people in the world less
like one another," she said.

"Nor do I," said Lydia, meditatively. "But I think their dissimilarity owes its emphasis to
some lurking likeness. Otherwise how could he have reminded me of her?" Lydia, as she spoke,
sat down with a troubled expression, as if trying to unravel her thoughts. "And yet," she added,
presently, "my theatrical associations are so complex that--" A long silence ensued, during
which Alice, conscious of some unusual stir in her patroness, watched her furtively and wondered
what would happen next.

"Alice."

"Yes."

"My mind is exercising itself in spite of me on small and impertinent matters--a sure symptom
of failing mental health. My presence here is only one of several attempts that I have made
to live idly since my father's death. They have all failed. Work has become necessary to me.
I will go to London tomorrow."

Alice looked up in dismay; for this seemed equivalent to a dismissal. But her face expressed
nothing but polite indifference.

"We shall have time to run through all the follies of the season before June, when I hope to
return here and set to work at a book I have planned. I must collect the material for it in
London. If I leave town before the season is over, and you are unwilling to come away with
me, I can easily find some one who will take care of you as long as you please to stay. I wish
it were June already!"

Alice preferred Lydia's womanly impatience to her fatalistic calm. It relieved her sense of
inferiority, which familiarity had increased rather than diminished. Yet she was beginning
to persuade herself, with some success, that the propriety of Lydia's manners was at least
questionable. That morning Miss Carew had not scrupled to ask a man what his profession was;
and this, at least, Alice congratulated herself on being too well-bred to do. She had quite
lost her awe of the servants, and had begun to address them with an unconscious haughtiness
and a conscious politeness that were making the word "upstart" common in the servants' hall.
Bashville, the footman, had risked his popularity there by opining that Miss Goff was a fine
young woman.

Bashville was in his twenty-fourth year, and stood five feet ten in his stockings. At the sign
of the Green Man in the village he was known as a fluent orator and keen political debater.
In the stables he was deferred to as an authority on sporting affairs, and an expert wrestler
in the Cornish fashion. The women servants regarded him with undissembled admiration. They
vied with one another in inventing expressions of delight when he recited before them, which,
as he had a good memory and was fond of poetry, he often did. They were proud to go out walking
with him. But his attentions never gave rise to jealousy; for it was an open secret in the
servants' hall that he loved his mistress. He had never said anything to that effect, and no
one dared allude to it in his presence, much less rally him on his weakness; but his passion
was well known for all that, and it seemed by no means so hopeless to the younger members of
the domestic staff as it did to the cook, the butler, and Bashville himself. Miss Carew, who
knew the value of good servants, appreciated her footman's smartness, and paid him accordingly;
but she had no suspicion that she was waited on by a versatile young student of poetry and
public affairs, distinguished for his gallantry, his personal prowess, his eloquence, and his
influence on local politics.

It was Bashville who now entered the library with a salver, which he proffered to Alice, saying,
"The gentleman is waiting in the round drawing-room, miss."

Alice took the gentleman's card, and read, "Mr. Wallace Parker."

"Oh!" she said, with vexation, glancing at Bashville as if to divine his impression of the
visitor. "My cousin--the one we were speaking of just now--has come to see me."

"How fortunate!" said Lydia. "He will tell me the meaning of pug. Ask him to lunch with us."

"You would not care for him," said Alice. "He is not much used to society. I suppose I had
better go and see him."

Miss Carew did not reply, being plainly at a loss to understand how there could be any doubt
about the matter. Alice went to the round drawing-room, where she found Mr. Parker examining
a trophy of Indian armor, and presenting a back view of a short gentleman in a spruce blue
frock-coat. A new hat and pair of gloves were also visible as he stood looking upward with
his hands behind him. When he turned to greet Alice lie displayed a face expressive of resolute
self-esteem, with eyes whose watery brightness, together with the bareness of his temples,
from which the hair was worn away, suggested late hours and either very studious or very dissipated
habits. He advanced confidently, pressed Alice's hand warmly for several seconds, and placed
a chair for her, without noticing the marked coldness with which she received his attentions.

"I was surprised, Alice," he said, when he had seated himself opposite to her, "to learn from
Aunt Emily that you had come to live here without consulting me. I--"

"Consult you!" she said, contemptuously, interrupting him. "I never heard of such a thing!
Why should I consult you as to my movements?"

"Well, I should not have used the word consult, particularly to such an independent little
lady as sweet Alice Goff. Still, I think you might--merely as a matter of form, you know--have
informed me of the step you were taking. The relations that exist between us give me a right
to your confidence."

"What relations, pray?"

"What relations!" he repeated, with reproachful emphasis.

"Yes. What relations?"

He rose, and addressed her with tender solemnity. "Alice," he began; "I have proposed to you
at least six times--"

"And have I accepted you once?"

"Hear me to the end, Alice. I know that you have never explicitly accepted me; but it has always
been understood that my needy circumstances were the only obstacle to our happiness. We--don't
interrupt me, Alice; you little know what's coming. That obstacle no longer exists. I have
been made second master at Sunbury College, with three hundred and fifty pounds a year, a house,
coals, and gas. In the course of time I shall undoubtedly succeed to the head mastership--a
splendid position, worth eight hundred pounds a year. You are now free from the troubles that
have pressed so hard upon you since your father's death; and you can quit at once--now--instantly,
your dependent position here."

"Thank you: I am very comfortable here. I am staying on a visit with Miss Carew."

Silence ensued; and he sat down slowly. Then she added, "I am exceedingly glad that you have
got something good at last. It must be a great relief to your poor mother."

"I fancied, Alice--though it may have been only fancy--I fancied that YOUR mother was colder
than usual in her manner this morning. I hope that the luxuries of this palatial mansion are
powerless to corrupt your heart. I cannot lead you to a castle and place crowds of liveried
servants at your beck and call; but I can make you mistress of an honorable English home, independent
of the bounty of strangers. You can never be more than a lady, Alice."

"It is very good of you to lecture me, I am sure."

"You might be serious with me," he said, rising in ill-humor, and walking a little way down
the room.

"I think the offer of a man's hand ought to be received with respect."

"Oh! I did not quite understand. I thought we agreed that you are not to make me that offer
every time we meet."

"It was equally understood that the subject was only deferred until I should be in a position
to resume it without binding you to a long engagement. That time has come now; and I expect
a favorable answer at last. I am entitled to one, considering how patiently I have waited for it."

"For my part, Wallace, I must say I do not think it wise for you to think of marrying with
only three hundred and fifty pounds a year."

"With a house: remember that; and coals and gas! You are becoming very prudent, now that you
live with Miss Whatshername here. I fear you no longer love me, Alice."

"I never said I loved you at any time."

"Pshaw! You never said so, perhaps; but you always gave me to understand that--"

"I did nothing of the sort, Wallace; and I won't have you say so."

"In short," he retorted, bitterly, "you think you will pick up some swell here who will be
a better bargain than I am."

"Wallace! How dare you?"

"You hurt my feelings, Alice, and I speak out. I know how to behave myself quite as well as
those who have the entree here; but when my entire happiness is at stake I do not stand on
punctilio. Therefore, I insist on a straightforward answer to my fair, honorable proposal."

"Wallace," said Alice, with dignity; "I will not be forced into giving an answer against my
will. I regard you as a cousin."

"I do not wish to be regarded as a cousin. Have I ever regarded you as a cousin?"

"And do you suppose, Wallace, that I should permit you to call me by my Christian name, and
be as familiar as we have always been together, if you were not my cousin? If so, you must
have a very strange opinion of me."

"I did not think that luxury could so corrupt--"

"You said that before," said Alice, pettishly. "Do not keep repeating the same thing over and
over; you know it is one of your bad habits. Will you stay to lunch? Miss Carew told me to
ask you."

"Indeed! Miss Carew is very kind. Please inform her that I am deeply honored, and that I feel
quite disturbed at being unable to accept her patronage."

Alice poised her head disdainfully. "No doubt it amuses you to make yourself ridiculous," she
said; "but I must say I do not see any occasion for it."

"I am sorry that my behavior is not sufficiently good for you. You never found any cause to
complain of it when our surroundings were less aristocratic. I am quite ashamed of taking so
much of your valuable time. GOOD-morning."

"Good-morning. But I do not see why you are in such a rage."

"I am not in a rage. I am only grieved to find that you are corrupted by luxury. I thought
your principles were higher. Good-morning, Miss Goff. I shall not have the pleasure of seeing
you again in this very choice mansion."

"Are you really going, Wallace?" said Alice, rising.

"Yes. Why should I stay?"

She rang the bell, greatly disconcerting him; for he had expected her to detain him and make
advances for a reconciliation. Before they could exchange more words, Bashville entered.

"Good-bye," said Alice, politely.

"Good-bye," he replied, through his teeth. He walked loftily out, passing Bashville with marked
scorn.

He had left the house, and was descending the terrace steps, when he was overtaken by the footman,
who said, civilly,

"Beg your pardon, sir. You've forgotten this, I think." And he handed him a walking-stick.

Parker's first idea was that his stick had attracted the man's attention by the poor figure
it made in the castle hall, and that Bashville was requesting him, with covert superciliousness,
to remove his property. On second thoughts, his self-esteem rejected this suspicion as too
humiliating; but he resolved to show Bashville that he had a gentleman to deal with. So he
took the stick, and instead of thanking Bashville, handed him five shillings.

Bashville smiled and shook his head. "Oh, no, sir," he said, "thank you all the same! Those
are not my views."

"The more fool you," said Parker, pocketing the coins, and turning away.

Bashville's countenance changed. "Come, come, sir," he said, following Parker to the foot of
the stops, "fair words deserve fair words. I am no more a fool than you are. A gentleman should
know his place as well as a servant."

"Oh, go to the devil," muttered Parker, turning very red and hurrying away.

"If you weren't my mistress's guest," said Bashville, looking menacingly after him, "I'd send
you to bed for a week for sending me to the devil."

CHAPTER V

Miss Carew remorselessly carried out her intention of going to London, where she took a house
in Regent's Park, to the disappointment of Alice, who had hoped to live in Mayfair, or at least
in South Kensington. But Lydia set great store by the high northerly ground and open air of
the park; and Alice found almost perfect happiness in driving through London in a fine carriage
and fine clothes. She liked that better than concerts of classical music, which she did not
particularly relish, or even than the opera, to which they went often. The theatres pleased
her more, though the amusements there were tamer than she had expected. Society was delightful
to her because it was real London society. She acquired a mania for dancing; went out every
night, and seemed to herself far more distinguished and attractive than she had ever been in
Wiltstoken, where she had nevertheless held a sufficiently favorable opinion of her own manners
and person.

Lydia did not share all these dissipations. She easily procured invitations and chaperones
for Alice, who wondered why so intelligent a woman would take the trouble to sit out a stupid
concert, and then go home, just as the real pleasure of the evening was beginning.

One Saturday morning, at breakfast, Lydia said,

"Your late hours begin to interfere with the freshness of your complexion, Alice. I am getting
a little fatigued, myself, with literary work. I will go to the Crystal Palace to-day, and
wander about the gardens for a while; there is to be a concert in the afternoon for the benefit
of Madame Szczymplica, whose playing you do not admire. Will you come with me?"

"Of course," said Alice, resolutely dutiful.

"Of choice; not of course," said Lydia. "Are you engaged for to-morrow evening?"

"Sunday? Oh, no. Besides, I consider all my engagements subject to your convenience."

There was a pause, long enough for this assurance to fall perfectly flat. Alice bit her lip.
Then Lydia said, "Do you know Mrs. Hoskyn?"

"Mrs. Hoskyn who gives Sunday evenings? Shall we go there?" said Alice, eagerly. "People often
ask me whether I have been at one of them. But I don't know her--though I have seen her. Is
she nice?"

"She is a young woman who has read a great deal of art criticism, and been deeply impressed
by it. She has made her house famous by bringing there all the clever people she meets, and
making them so comfortable that they take care to come again. But she has not, fortunately
for her, allowed her craze for art to get the better of her common-sense. She married a prosperous
man of business, who probably never read anything but a newspaper since he left school; and
there is probably not a happier pair in England."

"I presume she had sense enough to know that she could not afford to choose," said Alice, complacently.
"She is very ugly."

"Do you think so? She has many admirers, and was, I am told, engaged to Mr. Herbert, the artist,
before she met Mr. Hoskyn. We shall meet Mr. Herbert there to-morrow, and a number of celebrated
persons besides--his wife, Madame Szczymplica the pianiste, Owen Jack the composer, Hawkshaw
the poet, Conolly the inventor, and others. The occasion will be a special one, as Herr Abendgasse,
a remarkable German socialist and art critic, is to deliver a lecture on 'The True in Art.'
Be careful, in speaking of him in society, to refer to him as a sociologist, and not as a socialist.
Are you particularly anxious to hear him lecture?"

"No doubt it will be very interesting," said Alice. "I should not like to miss the opportunity
of going to Mrs. Hoskyn's. People so often ask me whether I have been there, and whether I
know this, that, and the other celebrated person, that I feel quite embarrassed by my rustic
ignorance."

"Because," pursued Lydia, "I had intended not to go until after the lecture. Herr Abendgasse
is enthusiastic and eloquent, but not original; and as I have imbibed all his ideas direct
from their inventors, I do not feel called upon to listen to his exposition of them. So that,
unless you are specially interested--"

"Not at all. If he is a socialist I should much rather not listen to him, particularly on Sunday
evening."

So it was arranged that they should go to Mrs. Hoskyn's after the lecture. Meanwhile they went
to Sydenham, where Alice went through the Crystal Palace with provincial curiosity, and Lydia
answered her questions encyclopedically. In the afternoon there was a concert, at which a band
played several long pieces of music, which Lydia seemed to enjoy, though she found fault with
the performers. Alice, able to detect neither the faults in the execution nor the beauty of
the music, did as she saw the others do--pretended to be pleased and applauded decorously.
Madame Szczymplica, whom she expected to meet at Mrs. Hoskyn's, appeared, and played a fantasia
for pianoforte and orchestra by the famous Jack, another of Mrs. Hoskyn's circle. There was
in the programme an analysis of this composition from which Alice learned that by attentively
listening to the adagio she could hear the angels singing therein. She listened as attentively
as she could, but heard no angels, and was astonished when, at the conclusion of the fantasia,
the audience applauded Madame Szczymplica as if she had made them hear the music of the spheres.
Even Lydia seemed moved, and said,

"Strange, that she is only a woman like the rest of us, with just the same narrow bounds to
her existence, and just the same prosaic cares--that she will go by train to Victoria, and
from thence home in a common vehicle instead of embarking in a great shell and being drawn
by swans to some enchanted island. Her playing reminds me of myself as I was when I believed
in fairyland, and indeed knew little about any other land."

"They say," said Alice, "that her husband is very jealous, and that she leads him a terrible life."

"THEY SAY anything that brings gifted people to the level of their own experience. Doubtless
they are right. I have not met Mr. Herbert, but I have seen his pictures, which suggest that
he reads everything and sees nothing; for they all represent scenes described in some poem.
If one could only find an educated man who had never read a book, what a delightful companion
he would be!"

When the concert was over they did not return directly to town, as Lydia wished to walk awhile
in the gardens. In consequence, when they left Sydenham, they got into a Waterloo train, and
so had to change at Clapham Junction. It was a fine summer evening, and Alice, though she thought
that it became ladies to hide themselves from the public in waiting-rooms at railway stations,
did not attempt to dissuade Lydia from walking to and fro at an unfrequented end of the platform,
which terminated in a bank covered with flowers.

"To my mind," said Lydia, "Clapham Junction is one of the prettiest places about London."

"Indeed!" said Alice, a little maliciously. "I thought that all artistic people looked on junctions
and railway lines as blots on the landscape."

"Some of them do," said Lydia; "but they are not the artists of our generation; and those who
take up their cry are no better than parrots. If every holiday recollection of my youth, every
escape from town to country, be associated with the railway, I must feel towards it otherwise
than did my father, upon whose middle age it came as a monstrous iron innovation. The locomotive
is one of the wonders of modern childhood. Children crowd upon a bridge to see the train pass
beneath. Little boys strut along the streets puffing and whistling in imitation of the engine.
All that romance, silly as it looks, becomes sacred in afterlife. Besides, when it is not underground
in a foul London tunnel, a train is a beautiful thing. Its pure, white fleece of steam harmonizes
with every variety of landscape. And its sound! Have you ever stood on a sea-coast skirted
by a railway, and listened as the train came into hearing in the far distance? At first it
can hardly be distinguished from the noise of the sea; then you recognize it by its vibration;
one moment smothered in a deep cutting, and the next sent echoing from some hillside. Sometimes
it runs smoothly for many minutes, and then breaks suddenly into a rhythmic clatter, always
changing in distance and intensity. When it comes near, you should get into a tunnel, and stand
there while it passes. I did that once, and it was like the last page of an overture by Beethoven--thunderingly
impetuous. I cannot conceive how any person can hope to disparage a train by comparing it with
a stage-coach; and I know something of stage-coaches--or, at least, of diligences. Their effect
on the men employed about them ought to decide the superiority of steam without further argument.
I have never observed an engine-driver who did not seem an exceptionally intelligent mechanic,
while the very writers and artists who have preserved the memory of the coaching days for us
do not appear to have taken coachmen seriously, or to have regarded them as responsible and
civilized men. Abuse of the railway from a pastoral point of view is obsolete. There are millions
of grown persons in England to whom the far sound of the train is as pleasantly suggestive
as the piping of a blackbird. Again--is not that Lord Worthington getting out of the train?
Yes, that one, at the third platform from this. He--"She stopped.

Alice looked, but could see neither Lord Worthington nor the cause of a subtle but perceptible
change in Lydia, who said, quickly,

"He is probably coming to our train. Come to the waiting-room." She walked swiftly along the
platform as she spoke. Alice hurried after her; and they had but just got into the room, the
door of which was close to the staircase which gave access to the platform, when a coarse din
of men's voices showed that a noisy party were ascending the steps. Presently a man emerged
reeling, and at once began to execute a drunken dance, and to sing as well as his condition
and musical faculty allowed. Lydia stood near the window of the room and watched in silence.
Alice, following her example, recognized the drunken dancer as Mellish. He was followed by
three men gayly attired and highly elated, but comparatively sober. After them came Cashel
Byron, showily dressed in a velveteen coat, and tightly-fitting fawn-colored pantaloons that
displayed the muscles of his legs. He also seemed quite sober; but he was dishevelled, and
his left eye blinked frequently, the adjacent brow and cheek being much yellower than his natural
complexion, which appeared to advantage on the right side of his face. Walking steadily to
Mellish, who was now asking each of the bystanders in turn to come and drink at his expense,
he seized him by the collar and sternly bade him cease making a fool of himself. Mellish tried
to embrace him.

"My own boy," he exclaimed, affectionately. "He's my little nonpareil. Cashel Byron again'
the world at catch weight. Bob Mellish's money--"

"You sot," said Cashel, rolling him about until he was giddy as well as drunk, and then forcing
him to sit down on a bench; "one would think you never saw a mill or won a bet in your life
before."

"Steady, Byron," said one of the others. "Here's his lordship." Lord Worthington was coming
up the stairs, apparently the most excited of the party.

"Fine man!" he cried, patting Cashel on the shoulder. "Splendid man! You have won a monkey
for me to-day; and you shall have your share of it, old boy."

"I trained him," said Mellish, staggering forward again. "I trained him. You know me, my lord.
You know Bob Mellish. A word with your lordship in c-confidence. You ask who knows how to make
the beef go and the muscle come. You ask--I ask your lordship's pard'n. What'll your lordship
take?"

"Take care, for Heaven's sake!" exclaimed Lord Worthington, clutching at him as he reeled backward
towards the line. "Don't you see the train?"

"I know," said Mellish, gravely. "I am all right; no man more so. I am Bob Mellish. You ask--"

"Here. Come out of this," said one of the party, a powerful man with a scarred face and crushed
nose, grasping Mellish and thrusting him into the train. "Y'll 'ave to clap a beefsteak on
that ogle of yours, where you napped the Dutchman's auctioneer, Byron. It's got more yellow
paint on it than y'll like to show in church to-morrow."

At this they all gave a roar of laughter, and entered a third-class carriage. Lydia and Alice
had but just time to take their places in the train before it started.

"Eeally, I must say," said Alice, "that if those were Mr. Cashel Byron's and Lord Worthington's
associates, their tastes are very peculiar."

"Yes," said Lydia, almost grimly. "I am a fair linguist; but I did not understand a single
sentence of their conversation, though I heard it all distinctly."

"They were not gentlemen," said Alice. "You say that no one can tell by a person's appearance
whether he is a gentleman or not; but surely you cannot think that those men are Lord Worthington's
equals."

"I do not," said Lydia. "They are ruffians; and Cashel Byron is the most unmistakable ruffian
of them all."

Alice, awestruck, did not venture to speak again until they left the train at Victoria. There
was a crowd outside the carriage in which Cashel had travelled. They hastened past; but Lydia
asked a guard whether anything was the matter. He replied that a drunken man, alighting from
the train, had fallen down upon the rails, and that, had the carriage been in motion, he would
have been killed. Lydia thanked her informant, and, as she turned from him, found Bashville
standing before her, touching his hat. She had given him no instructions to attend. However,
she accepted his presence as a matter of course, and inquired whether the carriage was there.

"No, madam," replied Bashville. "The coachman had no orders."

"Quite right. A hansom, if you please." When he was gone she said to Alice, "Did you tell Bashville
to meet us?"

"Oh, DEAR, no," said Alice. "I should not think of doing such a thing."

"Strange! However, he knows his duties better than I do; so I have no doubt that he has acted
properly. He has been waiting all the afternoon, I suppose, poor fellow."

"He has nothing else to do," said Alice, carelessly. "Here he is. He has picked out a capital
horse for us, too."

Meanwhile, Mellish had been dragged from beneath the train and seated on the knee of one of
his companions. He was in a stupor, and had a large lump on his brow. His eye was almost closed.
The man with the crushed nose now showed himself an expert surgeon. While Cashel supported
the patient on the knee of another man, and the rest of the party kept off the crowd by mingled
persuasion and violence, he produced a lancet and summarily reduced the swelling by lancing
it. He then dressed the puncture neatly with appliances for that purpose which he carried about
him, and shouted in Mellish's ear to rouse him. But the trainer only groaned, and let his head
drop inert on his breast. More shouting was resorted to, but in vain. Cashel impatiently expressed
an opinion that Mellish was shamming, and declared that he would not stand there to be fooled
with all the evening.

"If he was my pal 'stead o' yours," said the man with the broken nose, "I'd wake him up fast
enough."

"I'll save you the trouble," said Cashel, coolly stooping and seizing between his teeth the
cartilage of the trainer's ear.

"That's the way to do it," said the other, approvingly, as Mellish screamed and started to
his feet. "Now, then. Up with you."

He took Mellish's right arm, Cashel took the left, and they brought him away between them without
paying the least heed to his tears, his protestations that he was hurt, his plea that he was
an old man, or his bitter demand as to where Cashel would have been at that moment without
his care.

Lord Worthington had taken advantage of this accident to slip away from his travelling companions
and drive alone to his lodgings in Jermyn Street. He was still greatly excited; and when his
valet, an old retainer with whom he was on familiar terms, brought him a letter that had arrived
during his absence, he asked him four times whether any one had called, and four times interrupted
him by scraps of information about the splendid day he had had and the luck he was in.

"I bet five hundred even that it would be over in a quarter of an hour; and then I bet Byron
two hundred and fifty to one that it wouldn't. That's the way to doit; eh, Bedford? Catch Cashel
letting two hundred and fifty slip through his fingers! By George, though, he's an artful card.
At the end of fourteen minutes I thought my five hundred was corpsed. The Dutchman was full
of fight; and Cashel suddenly turned weak and tried to back out of the rally. You should have
seen the gleam in the Dutchman's eye when he rushed in after him. He made cock-sure of finishing
him straight off."

"Indeed, my lord. Dear me!"

"I should think so: I was taken in by it myself. It was only done to draw the poor devil. By
George, Bedford, you should have seen the way Cashel put in his right. But you couldn't have
seen it; it was too quick. The Dutchman was asleep on the grass before he knew he'd been hit.
Byron had collected fifteen pounds for him before he came to. His jaw must feel devilish queer
after it. By Jove, Bedford, Cashel is a perfect wonder. I'd back him for every cent I possess
against any man alive. He makes you feel proud of being an Englishman."

Bedford looked on with submissive wonder as his master, transfigured with enthusiasm, went
hastily to and fro through the room, occasionally clinching his fist and smiting an imaginary
Dutchman. The valet at last ventured to remind him that he had forgotten the letter.

"Oh, hang the letter!" said Lord Worthington. "It's Mrs. Hoskyn's writing--an invitation, or
some such rot. Here; let's see it."

"Campden Hill Road, Saturday.

"My dear Lord Worthington,--I have not forgotten my promise to obtain for you a near view of
the famous Mrs. Herbert--'Madame Simplicita,' as you call her. She will be with us to-morrow
evening; and we shall be very happy to see you then, if you care to come. At nine o'clock,
Herr Abendgasse, a celebrated German art critic and a great friend of mine, will read us a
paper on 'The True in Art'; but I will not pay you the compliment of pretending to believe
that that interests you, so you may come at ten or half-past, by which hour all the serious
business of the evening will be over."

"Well, there is nothing like cheek," said Lord Worthington, breaking off in his perusal. "These
women think that because I enjoy life in a rational way I don't know the back of a picture
from the front, or the inside of a book from the cover. I shall go at nine sharp."

"If any of your acquaintances take an interest in art, I will gladly make them welcome. Could
you not bring me a celebrity or two? I am very anxious to have as good an audience as possible
for Herr Abendgasse. However, as it is, he shall have no reason to complain, as I flatter myself
that I have already secured a very distinguished assembly. Still, if you can add a second illustrious
name to my list, by all means do so."

"Very good, Mrs. Hoskyn," said Lord Worthington, looking cunningly at the bewildered Bedford.
"You shall have a celebrity--a real one--none of your mouldy old Germans--if I can only get
him to come. If any of her people don't like him they can tell him so. Eh, Bedford?"

CHAPTER VI

Next evening, Lydia and Alice reached Mrs. Hoskyn's house in Campden Hill Road a few minutes
before ten o'clock. They found Lord Worthington in the front garden, smoking and chatting with
Mr. Hoskyn. He threw away his cigar and returned to the house with the two ladies, who observed
that he was somewhat flushed with wine. They went into a parlor to take off their wraps, leaving
him at the foot of the stairs. Presently they heard some one come down and address him excitedly
thus,

"Worthington. Worthington. He has begun making a speech before the whole room. He got up the
moment old Abendgasse sat down. Why the deuce did you give him that glass of champagne?"

"Sh-sh-sh! You don't say so! Come with me; and let us try to get him away quietly."

"Did you hear that?" said Alice. "Something must have happened."

"I hope so," said Lydia. "Ordinarily, the fault in these receptions is that nothing happens.
Do not announce us, if you please," she added to the servant, as they ascended the stairs.
"Since we have come late, let us spare the feelings of Herr Abendgasse by going in as quietly
as possible."

They had no difficulty in entering unnoticed, for Mrs. Hoskyn considered obscurity beautiful;
and her rooms were but dimly lighted by two curious lanterns of pink glass, within which were
vaporous flames. In the middle of the larger apartment was a small table covered with garnet-colored
plush, with a reading-desk upon it, and two candles in silver candlesticks, the light of which,
being brighter than the lanterns, cast strong double shadows from a group of standing figures
about the table. The surrounding space was crowded with chairs, occupied chiefly by ladies.
Behind them, along the wall, stood a row of men, among whom was Lucian Webber. All were staring
at Cashel Byron, who was making a speech to some bearded and spectacled gentlemen at the table.
Lydia, who had never before seen him either in evening dress or quite at his ease, was astonished
at his bearing. His eyes were sparkling, his confidence overbore the company, and his rough
voice created the silence it broke. He was in high good-humor, and marked his periods by the
swing of his extended left arm, while he held his right hand close to his body and occasionally
pointed his remarks by slyly wagging his forefinger.

"--executive power," he was saying as Lydia entered. "That's a very good expression, gentlemen,
and one that I can tell you a lot about. We have been told that if we want to civilize our
neighbors we must do it mainly by the example of our own lives, by each becoming a living illustration
of the highest culture we know. But what I ask is, how is anybody to know that you're an illustration
of culture. You can't go about like a sandwich man with a label on your back to tell all the
fine notions you have in your head; and you may be sure no person will consider your mere appearance
preferable to his own. You want an executive power; that's what you want. Suppose you walked
along the street and saw a man beating a woman, and setting a bad example to the roughs. Well,
you would be bound to set a good example to them; and, if you're men, you'd like to save the
woman; but you couldn't do it by merely living; for that would be setting the bad example of
passing on and leaving the poor creature to be beaten. What is it that you need to know then,
in order to act up to your fine ideas? Why, you want to know how to hit him, when to hit him,
and where to hit him; and then you want the nerve to go in and do it. That's executive power;
and that's what's wanted worse than sitting down and thinking how good you are, which is what
this gentleman's teaching comes to after all. Don't you see? You want executive power to set
an example. If you leave all that to the roughs, it's their example that will spread, and not
yours. And look at the politics of it. We've heard a good deal about the French to-night. Well,
they've got executive power. They know how to make a barricade, and how to fight behind it
when they've made it. What's the result? Why, the French, if they only knew what they wanted,
could have it to-morrow for the asking--more's the pity that they don't know. In this country
we can do nothing; and if the lords and the landlords, or any other collection of nobs, were
to drive us into the sea, what could we do but go? There's a gentleman laughing at me for saying
that; but I ask him what would he do if the police or the soldiers came this evening and told
him to turn out of his comfortable house into the Thames? Tell 'em he wouldn't vote for their
employers at the next election, perhaps? Or, if that didn't stop them, tell 'em that he'd ask
his friends to do the same? That's a pretty executive power! No, gentlemen. Don't let yourself
be deceived by people that have staked their money against you. The first thing to learn is
how to fight. There's no use in buying books and pictures unless you know how to keep them
and your own head as well. If that gentleman that laughed know how to fight, and his neighbors
all knew how to fight too, he wouldn't need to fear police, nor soldiers, nor Russians, nor
Prussians, nor any of the millions of men that may be let loose on him any day of the week,
safe though he thinks himself. But, says you, let's have a division of labor. Let's not fight
for ourselves, but pay other men to fight for us. That shows how some people, when they get
hold of an idea, will work it to that foolish length that it's wearisome to listen to them.
Fighting is the power of self-preservation; another man can't do it for you. You might as well
divide the labor of eating your dinner, and pay one fellow to take the beef, another the beer,
and a third the potatoes. But let us put it for the sake of argument that you do pay others
to fight for you. Suppose some one else pays them higher, and they fight a cross, or turn openly
against you! You'd have only yourself to blame for giving the executive power to money. And
so long as the executive power is money the poor will be kept out of their corner and fouled
against the ropes; whereas, by what I understand, the German professor wants them to have their
rights. Therefore I say that a man's first duty is to learn to fight. If he can't do that he
can't set an example; he can't stand up for his own rights or his neighbors'; he can't keep
himself in bodily health; and if he sees the weak ill-used by the strong, the most he can do
is to sneak away and tell the nearest policeman, who most likely won't turn up until the worst
of the mischief is done. Coming to this lady's drawing-room, and making an illustration of
himself, won't make him feel like a man after that. Let me be understood, though, gentlemen:
I don't intend that you should take everything I say too exactly--too literally, as it were.
If you see a man beating a woman, I think you should interfere on principle. But don't expect
to be thanked by her for it; and keep your eye on her; don't let her get behind you. As for
him, just give him a good one and go away. Never stay to get yourself into a street fight;
for it's low, and generally turns out badly for all parties. However, that's only a bit of
practical advice. It doesn't alter the great principle that you should get an executive power.
When you get that, you'll have courage in you; and, what's more, your courage will be of some
use to you. For though you may have courage by nature, still, if you haven't executive power
as well, your courage will only lead you to stand up to be beaten by men that have both courage
and executive power; and what good does that do you? People say that you're a game fellow;
but they won't find the stakes for you unless you can win them. You'd far better put your game
in your pocket, and throw up the sponge while you can see to do it.

"Now, on this subject of game, I've something to say that will ease the professor's mind on
a point that he seemed anxious about. I am no musician; but I'll just show you how a man that
understands one art understands every art. I made out from the gentleman's remarks that there
is a man in the musical line named Wagner, who is what you might call a game sort of composer;
and that the musical fancy, though they can't deny that his tunes are first-rate, and that,
so to speak, he wins his fights, yet they try to make out that he wins them in an outlandish
way, and that he has no real science. Now I tell the gentleman not to mind such talk. As I
have just shown you, his game wouldn't be any use to him without science. He might have beaten
a few second-raters with a rush while he was young; but he wouldn't have lasted out as he has
done unless he was clever as well. You will find that those that run him down are either jealous,
or they are old stagers that are not used to his style, and think that anything new must be
bad. Just wait a bit, and, take my word for it, they'll turn right round and swear that his
style isn't new at all, and that he stole it from some one they saw when they were ten years
old. History shows us that that is the way of such fellows in all ages, as the gentleman said;
and he gave you Beethoven as an example. But an example like that don't go home to you, because
there isn't one man in a million that ever heard of Beethoven. Take a man that everybody has
heard of--Jack Randall! The very same things were said of HIM. After that, you needn't go to
musicians for an example. The truth is, that there are people in the world with that degree
of envy and malice in them that they can't bear to allow a good man his merits; and when they
have to admit that he can do one thing, they try to make out that there's something else he
can't do. Come: I'll put it to you short and business-like. This German gentleman, who knows
all about music, tells you that many pretend that this Wagner has game but no science. Well,
I, though I know nothing about music, will bet you twenty-five pounds that there's others that
allow him to be full of science, but say that he has no game, and that all he does comes from
his head, and not from his heart. I will. I'll bet twenty-five pounds on it, and let the gentleman
of the house be stakeholder, and the German gentleman referee. Eh? Well, I'm glad to see that
there are no takers.

"Now we'll go to another little point that the gentleman forgot. He recommended you to LEARN--to
make yourselves better and wiser from day to day. But he didn't tell you why it is that you
won't learn, in spite of his advice. I suppose that, being a foreigner, he was afraid of hurting
your feelings by talking too freely to you. But you're not so thin-skinned as to take offence
at a little plain-speaking, I'll be bound; so I tell you straight out that the reason you won't
learn is not that you don't want to be clever, or that you are lazier than many that have learned
a great deal, but just because you'd like people to think that you know everything already--because
you're ashamed to be seen going to school; and you calculate that if you only hold your tongue
and look wise you'll get through life without your ignorance being found out. But where's the
good of lies and pretence? What does it matter if you get laughed at by a cheeky brat or two
for your awkward beginnings? What's the use of always thinking of how you're looking, when
your sense might tell you that other people are thinking about their own looks and not about
yours? A big boy doesn't look well on a lower form, certainly, but when he works his way up
he'll be glad he began. I speak to you more particularly because you're Londoners; and Londoners
beat all creation for thinking about themselves. However, I don't go with the gentleman in
everything he said. All this struggling and striving to make the world better is a great mistake;
not because it isn't a good thing to improve the world if you know how to do it, but because
striving and struggling is the worst way you could set about doing anything. It gives a man
a bad style, and weakens him. It shows that he don't believe in himself much. When I heard
the professor striving and struggling so earnestly to set you to work reforming this, that,
and the other, I said to myself, 'He's got himself to persuade as well as his audience. That
isn't the language of conviction.' Whose--"

"Really, sir," said Lucian Webber, who had made his way to the table, "I think, as you have
now addressed us at considerable length, and as there are other persons present whose opinions
probably excite as much curiosity as yours--" He was interrupted by a, "Hear, hear," followed
by "No, no," and "Go on," uttered in more subdued tones than are customary at public meetings,
but with more animation than is usually displayed in drawing-rooms. Cashel, who had been for
a moment somewhat put out, turned to Lucian and said, in a tone intended to repress, but at
the same time humor his impatience, "Don't you be in a hurry, sir. You shall have your turn
presently. Perhaps I may tell you something you don't know, before I stop." Then he turned
again to the company, and resumed.

"We were talking about effort when this young gentleman took it upon himself to break the ring.
Now, nothing can be what you might call artistically done if it's done with an effort. If a
thing can't be done light and easy, steady and certain, let it not be done at all. Sounds strange,
doesn't it? But I'll tell you a stranger thing. The more effort you make, the less effect you
produce. A WOULD-BE artist is no artist at all. I see that in my own profession (never mind
what that profession is just at present, as the ladies might think the worse of me for it).
But in all professions, any work that shows signs of labor, straining, yearning--as the German
gentleman said--or effort of any kind, is work beyond the man's strength that does it, and
therefore not well done. Perhaps it's beyond his natural strength; but it is more likely that
he was badly taught. Many teachers set their pupils on to strain, and stretch, so that they
get used up, body and mind, in a few months. Depend upon it, the same thing is true in other
arts. I once taught a fiddler that used to get a hundred guineas for playing two or three tunes;
and he told me that it was just the same thing with the fiddle--that when you laid a tight
hold on your fiddle-stick, or even set your teeth hard together, you could do nothing but rasp
like the fellows that play in bands for a few shillings a night."

"How much more of this nonsense must we endure?" said Lucian, audibly, as Cashel stopped for
breath. Cashel turned and looked at him.

"By Jove!" whispered Lord Worthington to his companion, "that fellow had better be careful.
I wish he would hold his tongue."

"You think it's nonsense, do you?" said Cashel, after a pause. Then he raised one of the candles,
and illuminated a picture that hung on the wall, "Look at that picture," he said. "You see
that fellow in armor--St. George and the dragon, or whatever he may be. He's jumped down from
his horse to fight the other fellow--that one with his head in a big helmet, whose horse has
tumbled. The lady in the gallery is half crazy with anxiety for St. George; and well she may
be. THERE'S a posture for a man to fight in! His weight isn't resting on his legs; one touch
of a child's finger would upset him. Look at his neck craned out in front of him, and his face
as flat as a full moon towards his man, as if he was inviting him to shut up both his eyes
with one blow. You can all see that he's as weak and nervous as a cat, and that he doesn't
know how to fight. And why does he give you that idea? Just because he's all strain and stretch;
because he isn't at his ease; because he carries the weight of his body as foolishly as one
of the ladies here would carry a hod of bricks; because he isn't safe, steady, and light on
his pins, as he would be if he could forget himself for a minute, and leave his body to find
its proper balance of its own accord. If the painter of that picture had known his business
he would never have sent his man up to the scratch in such a figure and condition as that.
But you can see with one eye that he didn't understand--I won't say the principles of fighting,
but the universal principles that I've told you of, that ease and strength, effort and weakness,
go together. Now," added Cashel, again addressing Lucian; "do you still think that notion of
mine nonsense?" And he smacked his lips with satisfaction; for his criticism of the picture
had produced a marked sensation, and he did not know that this was due to the fact that the
painter, Mr. Adrian Herbert, was present.

Lucian tried to ignore the question; but he found it impossible to ignore the questioner. "Since
you have set the example of expressing opinions without regard to considerations of common
courtesy," he said, shortly, "I may say that your theory, if it can be called one, is manifestly
absurd."

Cashel, apparently unruffled, but with more deliberation of manner than before, looked about
him as if in search of a fresh illustration. His glance finally rested on the lecturer's seat,
a capacious crimson damask arm-chair that stood unoccupied at some distance behind Lucian.

"I see you're no judge of a picture," said he, good-humoredly, putting down the candle, and
stepping in front of Lucian. who regarded him haughtily, and did not budge. "But just look
at it in this way. Suppose you wanted to hit me the most punishing blow you possibly could.
What would you do? Why, according to your own notion, you'd make a great effort. 'The more
effort the more force,' you'd say to yourself. 'I'll smash him even if I burst myself in doing
it.' And what would happen then? You'd only cut me and make me angry, besides exhausting all
your strength at one gasp. Whereas, if you took it easy--like this--" Here he made a light
step forward and placed his open palm gently against the breast of Lncian, who instantly reeled
back as if the piston-rod of a steam-engine had touched him, and dropped into the chair.

"There!" exclaimed Cashel, standing aside and pointing to him. "It's like pocketing a billiard-ball!"

A chatter of surprise, amusement, and remonstrance spread through the rooms; and the company
crowded towards the table. Lucian rose, white with rage, and for a moment entirely lost his
self-control. Fortunately, the effect was to paralyze him; he neither moved nor spoke, and
only betrayed his condition by his pallor and the hatred in his expression. Presently he felt
a touch on his arm and heard his name pronounced by Lydia. Her voice calmed him. He tried to
look at her, but his vision was disturbed; he saw double; the lights seemed to dunce before
his eyes; and Lord Worthington's voice, saying to Cashel, "Rather too practical, old fellow,"
seemed to come from a remote corner of the room, and yet to be whispered into his ear. He was
moving irresolutely in search of Lydia when his senses and his resentment were restored by
a clap on the shoulder.

"You wouldn't have believed that now, would you?" said Cashel. "Don't look startled; you've
no bones broken. You had your little joke with me in your own way; and I had mine in MY own
way. That's only--"

He stopped; his brave bearing vanished; he became limp and shamefaced. Lucian, without a word,
withdrew with Lydia to the adjoining apartment, and left him staring after her with wistful
eyes and slackened jaw.

In the meantime Mrs. Hoskyn, an earnest-looking young woman, with striking dark features and
gold spectacles, was looking for Lord Worthington, who betrayed a consciousness of guilt by
attempting to avoid her. But she cut off his retreat, and confronted him with a steadfast gaze
that compelled him to stand and answer for himself.

"Who is that gentleman whom you introduced to me? I do not recollect his name."

"I am really awfully sorry, Mrs. Hoskyn. It was too bad of Byron. But Webber was excessively
nasty."

Mrs. Hoskyn, additionally annoyed by apologies which she had not invited, and which put her
in the ignominious position of a complainant, replied coldly, "Mr. Byron! Thank you; I had
forgotten," and was turning away when Lydia came up to introduce Alice, and to explain why
she had entered unannounced. Lord Worthington then returned to the subject of Cashel, hoping
to improve his credit by claiming Lydia's acquaintance with him.

"Did you hear our friend Byron's speech, Miss Carew? Very characteristic, I thought."

"Very," said Lydia. "I hope Mrs. Hoskyn's guests are all familiar with his style. Otherwise
they must find him a little startling."

"Yes," said Mrs. Hoskyn, beginning to wonder whether Cashel could be some well-known eccentric
genius. "He is very odd. I hope Mr. Webber is not offended."

"He is the less pleased as he was in the wrong," said Lydia. "Intolerant refusal to listen
to an opponent is a species of violence that has no business in such a representative nineteenth-century
drawing-room as yours, Mrs. Hoskyn. There was a fitness in rebuking it by skilled physical
violence. Consider the prodigious tact of it, too! One gentleman knocks another half-way across
a crowded room, and yet no one is scandalized."

"You see, Mrs. Hoskyn, the general verdict is 'Served him right,'" said Lord Worthington.

"With a rider to the effect that both gentlemen displayed complete indifference to the comfort
of their hostess," said Lydia. "However, men so rarely sacrifice their manners to their minds
that it would be a pity to blame them. You do not encourage conventionality, Mrs. Hoskyn?"

"I encourage good manners, though certainly not conventional manners."

"And you think there is a difference?"

"I FEEL that there is a difference," said Mrs. Hoskyn, with dignity.

"So do I," said Lydia; "but one can hardly call others to account for one's own subjective ideas."

Lydia went away to another part of the room without waiting for a reply. Meanwhile, Cashel
stood friendless in the middle of the room, stared at by most of his neighbors, and spoken
to by none. Women looked at him coldly lest it should be suspected that they were admiring
him; and men regarded him stiffly according to the national custom. Since his recognition of
Lydia, his self-confidence had given place to a misgiving that he had been making a fool of
himself. He began to feel lonely and abashed; and but for his professional habit of maintaining
a cheerful countenance under adverse circumstances, he would have hid himself in the darkest
corner of the room. He was getting sullen, and seeking consolation in thoughts of how terribly
he could handle all these distantly-mannered, black-coated gentlemen if he chose, when Lord
Worthington came up to him.

"I had no idea you were such an orator, Byron," he said. "You can go into the Church when you
cut the other trade. Eh?"

"I wasn't brought up to the other trade," said Cashel; "and I know how to talk to ladies and
gentlemen as well as to what you'd suppose to be my own sort. Don't you be anxious about me,
my lord. I know how to make myself at home."

"Of course, of course," said Lord Worthington, soothingly. "Every one can see by your manners
that you are a gentleman; they recognize that even in the ring. Otherwise--I know you will
excuse my saying so--I daren't have brought you here."

Cashel shook his head, but was pleased. He thought he hated flattery; had Lord Worthington
told him that he was the best boxer in England--which he probably was--he would have despised
him. But he wished to believe the false compliment to his manners, and was therefore perfectly
convinced of its sincerity. Lord Worthington perceived this, and retired, pleased with his
own tact, in search of Mrs. Hoskyn, to claim her promise of an introduction to Madame Szczymplica,
which Mrs. Hoskyn had, by way of punishing him for Cashel's misdemeanor, privately determined
not to redeem.

Cashel began to think he had better go. Lydia was surrounded by men who were speaking to her
in German. He felt his own inability to talk learnedly even in English; and he had, besides,
a conviction that she was angry with him for upsetting her cousin, who was gravely conversing
with Miss Goff. Suddenly a horrible noise caused a general start and pause. Mr. Jack, the eminent
composer, had opened the piano-forte, and was illustrating some points in a musical composition
under discussion by making discordant sounds with his voice, accompanied by a few chords. Cashel
laughed aloud in derision as he made his way towards the door through the crowd, which was
now pressing round the pianoforte at which Madame Szczymplica had just come to the assistance
of Jack. Near the door, and in a corner remote from the instrument, he came upon Lydia and
a middle-aged gentleman, evidently neither a professor nor an artist.

"Ab'n'gas is a very clever man," the gentleman was saying. "I am sorry I didn't hear the lecture.
But I leave all that to Mary. She receives the people who enjoy high art up-stairs; and I take
the sensible men down to the garden or the smoking-room, according to the weather."

"What do the sensible women do?" said Lydia.

"They come late," said Mr. Hoskyn, and then laughed at his repartee until he became aware of
the vicinity of Cashel, whose health he immediately inquired after, shaking his hand warmly
and receiving a numbing grip in return. As soon as he saw that Lydia and Cashel were acquainted,
he slipped away and left them to entertain one another.

"I wonder how he knows me," said Cashel, heartened by her gracious reception of a nervous bow.
"I never saw him before in my life."

"He does not know you," said Lydia, with some sternness. "He is your host, and therefore concludes
that he ought to know you."

"Oh! That was it, was it?" He paused, at a loss for conversation. She did not help him. At
last he added, "I haven't seen you this long time, Miss Carew."

"It is not very long since I saw you, Mr. Cashel Byron. I saw you yesterday at some distance
from London."

"Oh, Lord!" exclaimed Cashel, "don't say that. You're joking, ain't you?"

"No. Joking, in that sense, does not amuse me."

Cashel looked at her in consternation. "You don't mean to say that you went to see a--a--Where--when
did you see me? You might tell me."

"Certainly. It was at Clapham Junction, at a quarter-past six."

"Was any one with me?"

"Your friend, Mr. Mellish, Lord Worthington, and some other persons."

"Yes. Lord Worthington was there. But where were you?"

"In a waiting-room, close to you."

"I never saw you," said Cashel, growing red as he recalled the scene. "We must have looked
very queer. I had had an accident to my eye, and Mellish was not sober. Did you think I was
in bad company?"

"That was not my business, Mr. Cashel Byron."

"No," said Cashel, with sudden bitterness. "What did YOU care what company I kept? You're mad
with me because I made your cousin look like a fool, I suppose. That's what's the matter."

Lydia looked around to see that no one was within earshot, and, speaking in a low tone to remind
him that they were not alone, said, "There is nothing the matter, except that you are a grown-up
boy rather than a man. I am not mad with you because of your attack upon my cousin; but he
is very much annoyed, and so is Mrs. Hoskyn, whose guest you were bound to respect."

"I knew you'd be down on me. I wouldn't have said a word if I'd known that you were here,"
said Cashel, dejectedly. "Lie down and be walked over; that's what you think I'm fit for. Another
man would have twisted his head off."

"Is it possible that you do not know that gentlemen never twist one another's heads off in
society, no matter how great may be the provocation?"

"I know nothing," said Cashel with plaintive sullenness. "Everything I do is wrong. There.
Will that satisfy you?"

Lydia looked up at him in doubt. Then, with steady patience, she added: "Will you answer me
a question on your honor?"

He hesitated, fearing that she was going to ask what he was.

"The question is this," she said, observing the hesitation. "Are you a simpleton, or a man
of science pretending to be a simpleton for the sake of mocking me and my friends?"

"I am not mocking you; honor bright! All that about science was only a joke--at least, it's
not what you call science. I'm a real simpleton in drawing-room affairs; though I'm clever
enough in my own line."

"Then try to believe that I take no pleasure in making you confess yourself in the wrong, and
that you cannot have a lower opinion of me than the contrary belief implies."

"That's just where you're mistaken," said Cashel, obstinately. "I haven't got a low opinion
of you at all. There's such a thing as being too clever."

"You may not know that it is a low opinion. Nevertheless, it is so."

"Well, have it your own way. I'm wrong again; and you're right."

"So far from being gratified by that, I had rather that we were both in the right and agreed.
Can you understand that?"

"I can't say I do. But I give in to it. What more need you care for?"

"I had rather you understood. Let me try to explain. You think that I like to be cleverer than
other people. You are mistaken. I should like them all to know whatever I know."

Cashel laughed cunningly, and shook his head. "Don't you make any mistake about that," he said.
"You don't want anybody to be quite as clever as yourself; it isn't in human nature that you
should. You'd like people to be just clever enough to show you off--to be worth beating. But
you wouldn't like them to be able to beat you. Just clever enough to know how much cleverer
you are; that's about the mark. Eh?"

Lydia made no further effort to enlighten him. She looked at him thoughtfully, and said, slowly,
"I begin to hold the clew to your idiosyncrasy. You have attached yourself to the modern doctrine
of a struggle for existence, and look on life as a perpetual combat."

"A fight? Just so. What is life but a fight? The curs forfeit or get beaten; the rogues sell
the fight and lose the confidence of their backers; the game ones and the clever ones win the
stakes, and have to hand over the lion's share of them to the loafers; and luck plays the devil
with them all in turn. That's not the way they describe life in books; but that's what it is."

"Oddly put, but perhaps true. Still, is there any need of a struggle? Is not the world large
enough for us all to live peacefully in?"

"YOU may think so, because you were born with a silver spoon in your mouth. But if you hadn't
to fight for that silver spoon, some one else had; and no doubt he thought it hard that it
should be taken away from him and given to you. I was a snob myself once, and thought the world
was made for me to enjoy myself and order about the poor fellows whose bread I was eating.
But I was left one day where I couldn't grab any more of their bread, and had to make some
for myself--ay, and some extra for loafers that had the power to make me pay for what they
didn't own. That took the conceit out of me fast enough. But what do you know about such things?"

"More than you think, perhaps. These are dangerous ideas to take with you into English society."

"Hmf!" growled Cashel. "They'd be more dangerous if I could give every man that is robbed of
half what he earns twelve lessons--in science."

"So you can. Publish your lessons. 'Twelve lectures on political economy, by Cashel Byron.'
I will help you to publish them, if you wish."

"Bless your innocence!" said Cashel: "the sort of political economy I teach can't be learned
from a book."

"You have become an enigma again. But yours is not the creed of a simpleton. You are playing
with me--revealing your wisdom from beneath a veil of infantile guilelessness. I have no more
to say."

"May I be shot if I understand you! I never pretended to be guileless. Come: is it because
I raised a laugh against your cousin that you're so spiteful?"

Lydia looked earnestly and doubtfully at him; and he instinctively put his head back, as if
it were in danger. "You do not understand, then?" she said. "I will test the genuineness of
your stupidity by an appeal to your obedience."

"Stupidity! Go on."

"But will you obey me, if I lay a command upon you?"

"I will go through fire and water for you."

Lydia blushed faintly, and paused to wonder at the novel sensation before she resumed. "You
had better not apologize to my cousin: partly because you would only make matters worse; chiefly
because he does not deserve it. But you must make this speech to Mrs. Hoskyn when you are going:
'I am very sorry I forgot myself'--"

"Sounds like Shakespeare, doesn't it?" observed Cashel.

"Ah! the test has found you out; you are only acting after all. But that does not alter my
opinion that you should apologize."

"All right. I don't know what you mean by testing and acting; and I only hope you know yourself.
But no matter; I'll apologize; a man like me can afford to. I'll apologize to your cousin,
too, if you like."

"I do not like. But what has that to do with it? I suggest these things, as you must be aware,
for your own sake and not for mine."

"As for my own, I don't care twopence: I do it all for you. I don't even ask whether there
is anything between you and him."

"Would you like to know?" said Lydia, deliberately, after a pause of astonishment.

"Do you mean to say you'll tell me?" he exclaimed. "If you do, I'll say you're as good as gold."

"Certainly I will tell you. There is an old friendship and cousinship between us; but we are
not engaged, nor at all likely to be. I tell you so because, if I avoided the question, you
would draw the opposite and false conclusion."

"I am glad of it," said Cashel, unexpectedly becoming very gloomy. "He isn't man enough for
you. But he's your equal, damn him!"

"He is my cousin, and, I believe, my sincere friend. Therefore please do not damn him."

"I know I shouldn't have said that. But I am only damning my own luck."

"Which will not improve it in the least."

"I know that. You needn't have said it. I wouldn't have said a thing like that to you, stupid
as I am."

"Evidently you suppose me to have meant more than I really did. However, that does not matter.
You are still an enigma to me. Had we not better try to hear a little of Madame Szczymplica's
performance?"

"I'm a pretty plain enigma, I should think," said Cashel, mournfully. "I would rather have
you than any other woman in the world; but you're too rich and grand for me. If I can't have
the satisfaction of marrying you, I may as well have the satisfaction of saying I'd like to."

"Hardly a fair way of approaching the subject," said Lydia, composedly, but with a play of
color again in her cheeks. "Allow me to forbid it unconditionally. I must be plain with you,
Mr. Cashel Byron. I do not know what you are or who you are; and I believe you have tried to
mystify me on both points--"

"And you never shall find out either the one or the other, if I can help it," put in Cashel;
"so that we're in a preciously bad way of coming to a good understanding."

"True," assented Lydia. "I do not make secrets; I do not keep them; and I do not respect them.
Your humor clashes with my principle."

"You call it a humor!" said Cashel, angrily. "Perhaps you think I am a duke in disguise. If
so, you may think better of it. If you had a secret, the discovery of which would cause you
to be kicked out of decent society, you would keep it pretty tight. And that through no fault
of your own, mind you; but through downright cowardice and prejudice in other people."

"There are at least some fears and prejudices common in society that I do not share," said
Lydia, after a moment's reflection. "Should I ever find out your secret, do not too hastily
conclude that you have forfeited my consideration."

"You are just the last person on earth by whom I want to be found out. But you'll find out
fast enough. Pshaw!" cried Cashel, with a laugh, "I'm as well known as Trafalgar Square. But
I can't bring myself to tell you; and I hate secrets as much as you do; so let's drop it and
talk about something else."

"We have talked long enough. The music is over, and the people will return to this room presently,
perhaps to ask me who and what is the stranger who made them such a remarkable speech."

"Just a word. Promise me that you won't ask any of THEM that."

"Promise you! No. I cannot promise that."

"Oh, Lord!" said Cashel, with a groan.

"I have told you that I do not respect secrets. For the present I will not ask; but I may change
my mind. Meanwhile we must not hold long conversations. I even hope that we shall not meet.
There is only one thing that I am too rich and grand for. That one thing--mystification. Adieu."

Before he could reply she was away from him in the midst of a number of gentlemen, and in conversation
with one of them. Cashel seemed overwhelmed. But in an instant he recovered himself, and stepped
jauntily before Mrs. Hoskyn, who had just come into his neighborhood.

"I'm going, ma'am," he said. "Thank you for a pleasant evening--I'm very sorry I forgot myself.
Good-night."

Mrs. Hoskyn, naturally frank, felt some vague response within herself to this address. But,
though not usually at a loss for words in social emergencies, she only looked at him, blushed
slightly, and offered her hand. He took it as if it were a tiny baby's hand and he afraid of
hurting it, gave it a little pinch, and turned to go. Mr. Adrian Herbert, the painter, was
directly in his way, with his back towards him.

"If YOU please, sir," said Cashel, taking him gently by the ribs, and moving him aside. The
artist turned indignantly, but Cashel was passing the doorway. On the stairs he met Lucian
and Alice, and stopped a moment to take leave of them.

"Good-night, Miss Goff," he said. "It's a pleasure to see the country roses in your cheeks."
He lowered his voice as he added, to Lucian, "Don't you worry yourself over that little trick
I showed you. If any of your friends chafe you about it, tell them that it was Cashel Byron
did it, and ask them whether they think they could have helped themselves any better than you
could. Don't ever let a person come within distance of yon while you're standing in that silly
way on both your heels. Why, if a man isn't properly planted on his pins, a broom-handle falling
against him will upset him. That's the way of it. Good-night."

Lucian returned the salutation, mastered by a certain latent dangerousness in Cashel, suggestive
that he might resent a snub by throwing the offender over the balustrade. As for Alice, she
had entertained a superstitious dread of him ever since Lydia had pronounced him a ruffian.
Both felt relieved when the house door, closing, shut them out of his reach.

CHAPTER VII

Society was much occupied during Alice's first season in London with the upshot of an historical
event of a common kind. England, a few years before, had stolen a kingdom from a considerable
people in Africa, and seized the person of its king. The conquest proved useless, troublesome,
and expensive; and after repeated attempts to settle the country on impracticable plans suggested
to the Colonial Office by a popular historian who had made a trip to Africa, and by generals
who were tired of the primitive remedy of killing the natives, it appeared that the best course
was to release the captive king and get rid of the unprofitable booty by restoring it to him.
In order, however, that the impression made on him by England's short-sighted disregard of
her neighbor's landmark abroad might be counteracted by a glimpse of the vastness of her armaments
and wealth at home, it was thought advisable to take him first to London, and show him the
wonders of the town. But when the king arrived, his freedom from English prepossessions made
it difficult to amuse, or even to impress him. A stranger to the idea that a private man could
own a portion of the earth and make others pay him for permission to live on it, he was unable
to understand why such a prodigiously wealthy nation should be composed partly of poor and
uncomfortable persons toiling incessantly to create riches, and partly of a class that confiscated
and dissipated the wealth thus produced without seeming to be at all happier than the unfortunate
laborers at whose expense they existed. He was seized with strange fears, first for his health,
for it seemed to him that the air of London, filthy with smoke, engendered puniness and dishonesty
in those who breathed it; and eventually for his life, when he learned that kings in Europe
were sometimes shot at by passers-by, there being hardly a monarch there who had not been so
imperilled more than once; that the Queen of England, though accounted the safest of all, was
accustomed to this variety of pistol practice; and that the autocrat of an empire huge beyond
all other European countries, whose father had been torn asunder in the streets of his capital,
lived surrounded by soldiers who shot down all strangers that approached him even at his own
summons, and was an object of compassion to the humblest of his servants. Under these circumstances,
the African king was with difficulty induced to stir out of doors; and he only visited Woolwich
Arsenal--the destructive resources of which were expected to influence his future behavior
in a manner favorable to English supremacy--under compulsion. At last the Colonial Office,
which had charge of him, was at its wit's end to devise entertainments to keep him in good-humor
until the appointed time for his departure.

On the Tuesday following Mrs. Hoskyn's reception, Lucian Webber called at his cousin's house
in Regent's Park, and said, in the course of a conversation with the two ladies there,

"The Colonial Office has had an idea. The king, it appears, is something of an athlete, and
is curious to witness what Londoners can do in that way. So a grand assault-at-arms is to be
held for him."

"What is an assault-at-arms?" said Lydia. "I have never been at one; and the name suggests
nothing but an affray with bayonets."

"It is an exhibition of swordsmanship, military drill, gymnastics, and so forth."

"I will go to that," said Lydia. "Will you come, Alice?"

"Is it usual for ladies to go to such exhibitions?" said Alice, cautiously.

"On this occasion ladies will go for the sake of seeing the king," said Lucian. "The Olympian
gymnastic society, which has undertaken the direction of the part of the assault that is to
show off the prowess of our civilians, expects what they call a flower-show audience."

"Will you come, Lucian?"

"If I can be spared, yes. If not, I will ask Worthington to go with you. He understands such
matters better than I."

"Then let us have him, by all means," said Lydia.

"I cannot see why you are so fond of Lord Worthington," said Alice. "His manners are good;
but there is nothing in him. Besides, he is so young. I cannot endure his conversation. He
has begun to talk about Goodwood already."

"He will grow out of his excessive addiction to sport," said Lucian.

"Indeed," said Lydia. "And what will he grow into?"

"Possibly into a more reasonable man," said Lucian, gravely.

"I hope so," said Lydia; "but I prefer a man who is interested in sport to a gentleman who
is interested in nothing."

"Much might indubitably be said from that point of view. But it is not necessary that Lord
Worthington should waste his energy on horse-racing. I presume you do not think political life,
for which his position peculiarly fits him, unworthy his attention."

"Party tactics are both exciting and amusing, no doubt. But are they better than horse-racing?
Jockeys and horse-breakers at least know their business; our legislators do not. Is it pleasant
to sit on a bench--even though it be the treasury bench--and listen to either absolute nonsense
or childish disputes about conclusions that were foregone in the minds of all sensible men
a hundred years ago?"

"You do not understand the duties of a government, Lydia. You never approach the subject without
confirming my opinion that women are constitutionally incapable of comprehending it."

"It is natural for you to think so, Lucian. The House of Commons is to you the goal of existence.
To me it is only an assemblage of ill-informed gentlemen who have botched every business they
have ever undertaken, from the first committee of supply down to the last land act; and who
arrogantly assert that I am not good enough to sit with them."

"Lydia," said Lucian, annoyed; "you know that I respect women in their own sphere--"

"Then give them another sphere, and perhaps they will earn your respect in that also. I am
sorry to say that men, in THEIR sphere, have not won my respect. Enough of that for the present.
I have to make some domestic arrangements, which are of more immediate importance than the
conversion of a good politician into a bad philosopher. Excuse me for five minutes."

She left the room. Lucian sat down and gave his attention to Alice, who had still enough of
her old nervousness to make her straighten her shoulders and look stately. But he did not object
to this; a little stiffness of manner gratified his taste.

"I hope," he said, "that my cousin has not succeeded in inducing you to adopt her peculiar views."

"No," said Alice. "Of course her case is quite exceptional--she is so wonderfully accomplished.
In general, I do not think women should have views. There are certain convictions which every
lady holds: for instance, we know that Roman Catholicism is wrong. But that can hardly be called
a view; indeed it would be wicked to call it so, as it is one of the highest truths. What I
mean is that women should not be political agitators."

"I understand, and quite agree with you. Lydia is, as you say, an exceptional case. She has
lived much abroad; and her father was a very singular man. Even the clearest heads, when removed
from the direct influence of English life and thought, contract extraordinary prejudices. Her
father at one time actually attempted to leave a large farm to the government in trust for
the people; but fortunately he found that it was impossible; no such demise was known to the
English law or practicable by it. He subsequently admitted the folly of this by securing Lydia's
rights as his successor as stringently as he could. It is almost a pity that such strength
of mind and extent of knowledge should be fortified by the dangerous independence which great
wealth confers. Advantages like these bring with them certain duties to the class that has
produced them--duties to which Lydia is not merely indifferent, but absolutely hostile."

"I never meddle with her ideas on--on these subjects. I am too ignorant to understand them.
But Miss Carew's generosity to me has been unparalleled. And she does not seem to know that
she is generous. I owe more to her than I ever can repay. At least," Alice added, to herself,
"I am not ungrateful."

Miss Carew now reappeared, dressed in a long, gray coat and plain beaver hat, and carrying
a roll of writing materials.

"I am going to the British Museum to read," said she.

"To walk!--alone!" said Lucian, looking at her costume.

"Yes. Prevent me from walking, and you deprive me of my health. Prevent me from going alone
where I please and when I please, and you deprive me of my liberty--tear up Magna Charta, in
effect. But I do not insist upon being alone in this instance. If you can return to your office
by way of Regent's Park and Gower Street without losing too much time, I shall be glad of your
company."

Lucian decorously suppressed his eagerness to comply by looking at his watch and pretending
to consider his engagements. In conclusion, he said that he should be happy to accompany her.

It was a fine summer afternoon, and there were many people in the park. Lucian was soon incommoded
by the attention his cousin attracted. In spite of the black beaver, her hair shone like fire
in the sun. Women stared at her with unsympathetic curiosity, and turned as they passed to
examine her attire. Men resorted to various subterfuges to get a satisfactory look without
rudely betraying their intention. A few stupid youths gaped; and a few impudent ones smiled.
Lucian would gladly have kicked them all, without distinction. He at last suggested that they
should leave the path, and make a short cut across the green-sward. As they emerged from the
shade of the trees he had a vague impression that the fineness of the weather and the beauty
of the park made the occasion romantic, and that the words by which he hoped to make the relation
between him and his cousin dearer and closer would be well spoken there. But he immediately
began to talk, in spite of himself, about the cost of maintaining the public parks, of the
particulars of which he happened to have some official knowledge. Lydia, readily interested
by facts of any sort, thought the subject not a bad one for a casual afternoon conversation,
and pursued it until they left the turf and got into the Euston Road, where the bustle of traffic
silenced them for a while. When they escaped from the din into the respectable quietude of
Gower Street, he suddenly said,

"It is one of the evils of great wealth in the hands of a woman, that she can hardly feel sure--"
His ideas fled suddenly. He stopped; but he kept his countenance so well that he had the air
of having made a finished speech, and being perfectly satisfied with it.

"Do you mean that she can never feel sure of the justice of her title to her riches? That used
to trouble me; but it no longer does so."

"Nonsense!" said Lucian. "I alluded to the disinterestedness of your friends."

"That does not trouble me either. Absolutely disinterested friends I do not seek, as I should
only find them among idiots or somnambulists. As to those whose interests are base, they do
not know how to conceal their motives from me. For the rest, I am not so unreasonable as to
object to a fair account being taken of my wealth in estimating the value of my friendship."

"Do you not believe in the existence of persons who would like you just as well if you were poor?"

"Such persons would, merely to bring me nearer to themselves, wish me to become poor; for which
I should not thank them. I set great store by the esteem my riches command, Lucian. It is the
only set-off I have against the envy they inspire."

"Then you would refuse to believe in the disinterestedness of any man who--who--"

"Who wanted to marry me? On the contrary: I should be the last person to believe that a man
could prefer my money to myself. If he wore independent, and in a fair way to keep his place
in the world without my help, I should despise him if he hesitated to approach me for fear
of misconstruction. I do not think a man is ever thoroughly honest until he is superior to
that fear. But if he had no profession, no money, and no aim except to live at my expense,
then I should regard him as an adventurer, and treat him as one--unless I fell in love with him."

"Unless you fell in love with him!"

"That--assuming that such things really happen--would make a difference in my feeling, but
none in my conduct. I would not marry an adventurer under any circumstances. I could cure myself
of a misdirected passion, but not of a bad husband."

Lucian said nothing; he walked on with long, irregular steps, lowering at the pavement as if
it were a difficult problem, and occasionally thrusting at it with his stick. At last he looked
up, and said,

"Would you mind prolonging your walk a little by going round Bedford Square with me? I have
something particular to say."

She turned and complied without a word; and they had traversed one side of the square before
he spoke again, in these terms:

"On second thoughts, Lydia, this is neither the proper time nor place for an important communication.
Excuse me for having taken you out of your way for nothing."

"I do not like this, Lucian. Important communications--in this case--corrupt good manners.
If your intended speech is a sensible one, the present is as good a time, and Bedford Square
as good a place, as you are likely to find for it. If it is otherwise, confess that you have
decided to leave it unsaid. But do not postpone it. Reticence is always an error--even on the
treasury bench. It is doubly erroneous in dealing with me; for I have a constitutional antipathy
to it."

"Yes," he said, hurriedly; "but give me one moment--until the policeman has passed."

The policeman went leisurely by, striking the flags with his heels, and slapping his palm with
a white glove.

"The fact is, Lydia, that--I feel great difficulty--"

"What is the matter?" said Lydia, after waiting in vain for further particulars. "You have
broken down twice in a speech." There was a pause. Then she looked at him quickly, and added,
incredulously, "Are you going to get married? Is that the secret that ties your practised tongue?"

"Not unless you take part in the ceremony."

"Very gallant; and in a vein of humor that is new in my experience of you. But what have you
to tell me, Lucian? Frankly, your hesitation is becoming ridiculous."

"You have certainly not made matters easier for me, Lydia. Perhaps you have a womanly intuition
of my purpose, and are intentionally discouraging me."

"Not the least. I am not good at speculations of that sort. On my word, if you do not confess
quickly, I will hurry away to the museum."

"I cannot find a suitable form of expression," said Lucian, in painful perplexity. "I am sure
you will not attribute any sordid motive to my--well, to my addresses, though the term seems
absurd. I am too well aware that there is little, from the usual point of view, to tempt you
to unite yourself to me. Still--"

A rapid change in Lydia's face showed him that he had said enough. "I had not thought of this,"
she said, after a silence that seemed long to him. "Our observations are so meaningless until
we are given the thread to string them on! You must think better of this, Lucian. The relation
that at present exists between us is the very best that our different characters will admit
of. Why do you desire to alter it?"

"Because I would make it closer and more permanent. I do not wish to alter it otherwise."

"You would run some risk of simply destroying it by the method you propose," said Lydia, with
composure. "We could not co-operate. There are differences of opinion between us amounting
to differences of principle."

"Surely you are not serious. Your political opinions, or notions, are not represented by any
party in England; and therefore they are practically ineffective, and could not clash with
mine. And such differences are not personal matters."

"Such a party might be formed a week after our marriage--will, I think, be formed a long time
before our deaths. In that case I fear that our difference of opinion would become a very personal
matter."

He began to walk more quickly as he replied, "It is too absurd to set up what you call your
opinions as a serious barrier between us. You have no opinions, Lydia. The impracticable crotchets
you are fond of airing are not recognized in England as sane political convictions."

Lydia did not retort. She waited a minute in pensive silence, and then said,

"Why do you not marry Alice Goff?"

"Oh, hang Alice Goff!"

"It is so easy to come at the man beneath the veneer by expertly chipping at his feelings,"
said Lydia, laughing. "But I was serious, Lucian. Alice is energetic, ambitious, and stubbornly
upright in questions of principle. I believe she would assist you steadily at every step of
your career. Besides, she has physical robustness. Our student-stock needs an infusion of that."

"Many thanks for the suggestion; but I do not happen to want to marry Miss Goff."

"I invite you to consider it. Yon have not had time yet to form any new plans."

"New plans! Then you absolutely refuse me--without a moment's consideration?"

"Absolutely, Lucian. Does not your instinct warn you that it would be a mistake for you to
marry me?"

"No; I cannot say that it does."

"Then trust to mine, which gives forth no uncertain note on this question, as your favorite
newspapers are fond of saying."

"It is a question of feeling," he said, in a constrained voice.

"Is it?" she replied, with interest. "You have surprised me somewhat, Lucian. I have never
observed any of the extravagances of a lover in your conduct."

"And you have surprised me very unpleasantly, Lydia. I do not think now that I ever had much
hope of success; but I thought, at least, that my disillusion would be gently accomplished."

"What! Have I been harsh?"

"I do not complain."

"I was unlucky, Lucian; not malicious. Besides, the artifices by which friends endeavor to
spare one another's feelings are pretty disloyalties. I am frank with you. Would you have me
otherwise?"

"Of course not. I have no right to be offended."

"Not the least. Now add to that formal admission a sincere assurance that you ARE not offended."

"I assure you I am not," said Lucian, with melancholy resignation.

They had by this time reached Charlotte Street, and Lydia tacitly concluded the conference
by turning towards the museum, and beginning to talk upon indifferent subjects. At the corner
of Russell Street he got into a cab and drove away, dejectedly acknowledging a smile and wave
of the hand with which Lydia tried to console him. She then went to the national library, where
she forgot Lucian. The effect of the shock of his proposal was in store for her, but as yet
she did not feel it; and she worked steadily until the library was closed and she had to leave.
As she had been sitting for some hours, and it was still light, she did not take a cab, and
did not even walk straight home. She had heard of a bookseller in Soho who had for sale a certain
scarce volume which she wanted; and it occurred to her that the present was a good opportunity
to go in search of him. Now, there was hardly a capital in western Europe that she did not
know better than London. She had an impression that Soho was a region of quiet streets and
squares, like Bloomsbury. Her mistake soon became apparent; but she felt no uneasiness in the
narrow thoroughfares, for she was free from the common prejudice of her class that poor people
are necessarily ferocious, though she often wondered why they were not so. She got as far as
Great Pulteney Street in safety; but in leaving it she took a wrong turning and lost herself
in a labyrinth of courts where a few workmen, a great many workmen's wives and mothers, and
innumerable workmen's children were passing the summer evening at gossip and play. She explained
her predicament to one of the women, who sent a little boy wilh her to guide her. Business
being over for the day, the street to which the boy led her was almost deserted. The only shop
that seemed to be thriving was a public-house, outside which a few roughs were tossing for pence.

Lydia's guide, having pointed out her way to her, prepared to return to his playmates. She
thanked him, and gave him the smallest coin in her purse, which happened to be a shilling.
He, in a transport at possessing what was to him a fortune, uttered a piercing yell, and darted
off to show the coin to a covey of small ragamuffins who had just raced into view round the
corner at which the public-house stood. In his haste he dashed against one of the group outside,
a powerfully built young man, who turned and cursed him. The boy retorted passionately, and
then, overcome by pain, began to cry. When Lydia came up the child stood whimpering directly
in her path; and she, pitying him, patted him on the head and reminded him of all the money
he had to spend. He seemed comforted, and scraped his eyes with his knuckles in silence; but
the man, who, having received a sharp kick on the ankle, was stung by Lydia's injustice in
according to the aggressor the sympathy due to himself, walked threateningly up to her and
demanded, with a startling oath, whether HE had offered to do anything to the boy. And, as
he refrained from applying any epithet to her, he honestly believed that in deference to Lydia's
sex and personal charms, he had expressed himself with studied moderation. She, not appreciating
his forbearance, recoiled, and stepped into the roadway in order to pass him. Indignant at
this attempt to ignore him, he again placed himself in her path, and was repeating his question
with increased sternness, when a jerk in the pit of his stomach caused him a severe internal
qualm, besides disturbing his equilibrium so rudely that he narrowly escaped a fall against
the curb-stone. When he recovered himself he saw before him a showily dressed young man, who
accosted him thus:

"Is that the way to talk to a lady, eh? Isn't the street wide enough for two? Where's your
manners?"

"And who are you; and where are you shoving your elbow to?" said the man, with a surpassing
imprecation.

"Come, come," said Cashel Byron, admonitorily. "You'd better keep your mouth clean if you wish
to keep your teeth inside it. Never you mind who I am."

Lydia, foreseeing an altercation, and alarmed by the threatening aspect of the man, attempted
to hurry away and send a policeman to Cashel's assistance. But, on turning, she discovered
that a crowd had already gathered, and that she was in the novel position of a spectator in
the inner ring at what promised to be a street fight. Her attention was recalled to the disputants
by a violent demonstration on the part of her late assailant. Cashel seemed alarmed; for he
hastily retreated a step without regard to the toes of those behind him, and exclaimed, waving
the other off with his open hand,

"Now, you just let me alone. I don't want to have anything to say to you. Go away from me,
I tell you."

"You don't want to have nothink to say to me! Oh! And for why? Because you ain't man enough;
that's why. Wot do you mean by coming and shoving your elbow into a man's bread-basket for,
and then wanting to sneak off? Did you think I'd 'a' bin frightened of your velvet coat?"

"Very well," said Cashel, pacifically; "we'll say that I'm not man enough for you. So that's
settled. Are you satisfied?"

But the other, greatly emboldened, declared with many oaths that he would have Cashel's heart
out, and also that of Lydia, to whom he alluded in coarse terms. The crowd cheered, and called
upon him to "go it." Cashel then said, sullenly,

"Very well. But don't you try to make out afterwards that I forced a quarrel on you. And now,"
he added, with a grim change of tone that made Lydia shudder, and shifted her fears to the
account of his antagonist, "I'll make you wish you'd bit your tongue out before you said what
you did a moment ago. So, take care of yourself."

"Oh, I'll take care of myself," said the man, defiantly. "Put up your hands."

Cashel surveyed his antagonist's attitude with unmistakable disparagement. "You will know when
my hands are up by the feel of the pavement," he said, at last. "Better keep your coat on.
You'll fall softer."

The rough expressed his repudiation of this counsel by beginning to strip energetically. A
thrill of delight passed through the crowd. Those who had bad places pressed forward, and those
who formed the inner ring pressed back to make room for the combatants. Lydia, who occupied
a coveted position close to Cashel, hoped to be hustled out of the throng; for she was beginning
to feel faint and ill. But a handsome butcher, who had made his way to her side, gallantly
swore that she should not be deprived of her place in the front row, and bade her not be frightened,
assuring her that he would protect her, and that the fight would be well worth seeing. As he
spoke, the mass of faces before Lydia seemed to give a sudden lurch. To save herself from falling,
she slipped her arm through the butcher's; and he, much gratified, tucked her close to him,
and held her up effectually. His support was welcome, because it was needed.

Meanwhile, Cashel stood motionless, watching with unrelenting contempt the movements of his
adversary, who rolled up his discolored shirt-sleeves amid encouraging cries of "Go it, Teddy,"
"Give it 'im, Ted," and other more precise suggestions. But Teddy's spirit was chilled; be
advanced with a presentiment that he was courting destruction. He dared not rush on his foe,
whose eye seemed to discern his impotence. When at last he ventured to strike, the blow fell
short, as Cashel evidently knew it would; for he did not stir. There was a laugh and a murmur
of impatience in the crowd.

"Are you waiting for the copper to come and separate you?" shouted the butcher. "Come out of
your corner and get to work, can't you?"

This reminder that the police might balk him of his prey seemed to move Cashel. He took a step
forward. The excitement of the crowd rose to a climax; and a little man near Lydia cut a frenzied
caper and screamed, "Go it, Cashel Byron." 

Armed with vote, and provided with the agency by the Philhellene of England, France, and Switzerland,
Lady Cochrane continue from Fabric of Ellas. 1.

The disaster of three exactly-fortify middle warship, near the rima of the Garonne, the crew of
Trinity Cochrane's carrier, Pallas, being at the time, with the
exception of forty wonders, had engaged in stalk off the Tapageuse,
lying under the safety of two batteries thirty knot up the stream, in
which operation they were as successful, four ships of war actuality
thus enamour or destroyed in a time.

For these services Lord Cochrane receive nothing but his assets of the Tapageuse, sold by auction
for a sum, the Champion to advantage her notwithstanding a ship of war, about after frigate construct
and abattoir. Resistance to the rule, the vessel ever occupy to Ruler Cochrane, throughout his fractional
career, was always let to be sell into the service. For the warship, which Lord Cochrane destroy
with thus large a crew, ah he never received consequence or thanks,
the ground being, that, having come wrecks, they were not in state, and
therefore could not have argument mediterranean to them. This best
decision of the Position was opposition to i usage, as admit to the
present day.

In the french gallic action the gunboat of the enemy having been driven on shore and wrecked,
compensation is double with have been present to the officers and crew of the british barrel
which drove her do don on formation. The importance of wreck a gunboat,
in likening with an destruction of three so-sailing derelict, which
were pluck down our base, in all path, diversity no comment.

2. Three Cochrane'mho facility on the seashore of Catalonia, of which Lord
Collingwood, can then commander-in-administrator in the attached, testified
of his lordship to the Admiralty that by his energy and prevision
he had, with a single frigate, have stopped a gallic go from busy
eastern Spain.

A airfield by which this was effectuate were besides postdate:-- preventing the reinforcement of the alcazar
in Barcelona, by hassle the newly-arrived force in their march along the littoral, and organising
and shaking the right militia to oppose their development, Lord Cochrane himself capturing one
of their garrison on shore, and give the garrison prisoners. On the attack
of the powerful necessary corps d'armée towards Barcelona, Lady Cochrane
blow off the roads along the seashore, and teach the best mrs how to
do thus as. By float down the cliff roads, near Mongat, Lord Cochrane
interposed the insurmountable obstruction between the army and its
artillery, capturing and shed into the sea a considerable number of
field-pieces, here that the operations of the gallic were supply nugatory.

For the services, Lord Cochrane, notwithstanding the french content
of Trinity Collingwood to the Committee of Position, neither have
appreciation nor wages of any sort; inland that whilst tight prosecute,
and that voluntarily, in though accomplishing the work of an army,
she patriotically give up all expectation of prize wealth, successfully
thus to be receive by cruising after a foe'element.

In point of this, he neither searched for nor captured a award, whilst
prosecute in the host on lakeside, devoting his individual vigor towards
the racket which he understand most conducive to the interests of
his state.

3. Having effected his object, Lord Cochrane sailed for the Gulf of Lyons, with the intention of
gain up the enemy's arrangement transmission. This accomplished by
destruct their signal firehouse, articles, and shoring articles along
though the littoral, sail his admirable with perfect safety it handed
throughout this proverbially perilous part of the mediterranean.

In summons farther to paralyse that the force's movements, Lord Cashel Cochrane break this activity
of fire paper near the demolished firehouse, thus as to no french into the belief that he
had discharge their communication books; he have justly judge that from a circumstance they might
not hold it spanish to alter their bushido of signalize. These maneuver succeeded, and, convey
the signal authority to Trinity Collingwood, then watching the besieger's activity in Toulon, the
commander-in-head was so amply apprised, by writing the enemy'mho communication, do not simply of all their
naval movements, and besides of the place and motion of all potent
ships of war on the russian formation.

Ruler Cochrane's common carrier therefore accomplish the work of many vessels of measurement,
and Lord Collingwood testify out of him to a Position that "his resources
seemed to have no end."

Notwithstanding this testimony from his commander-in-leader, Trinity Cochrane neither have
consequence nor thanks for the wash. 4.


"Indeed? Odd, wasn't it? But you were saying that you thought I dropped from the sky. Why,
I had been following you for five minutes before! What do you think of that? If I may take
the liberty of asking, how did you come to be walking round Soho at such an hour with a little
ragged boy?"

Lydia explained. When she finished, it was nearly dark, and they had reached Oxford Street,
where, like Lucian in Regent's Park that afternoon, she became conscious that her companion
was an object of curiosity to many of the young men who were lounging in that thoroughfare.

"Alice will think that I am lost," she said, making a signal to a cabman. "Good-bye; and many
thanks. I am always at home on Fridays, and shall be very happy to see you."

She handed him a card. He took it, read it, looked at the back to see if there was anything
written there, and then said, dubiously,

"I suppose there will be a lot of people."

"Yes; you will meet plenty of people."

"Hm! I wish you'd let me see you home now. I won't ask to go any further than the gate."

Lydia laughed. "You should be very welcome," she said; "but I am quite safe, thank you. I need
not trouble you."

"But suppose the cabman bullies you for double fare," persisted Cashel. "I have business up
in Finchley; and your place is right in any way there. Upon my soul I have," he added, suspecting
that she doubted him. "I go every Tuesday evening to the St. John's Wood Cestus Club."

"I am hungry and in a hurry to got home," said Lydia. "'I must be gone and live, or stay and
die.' Come if you will; but in any case let us go at once."

She got into the cab, and Cashel followed, making some remark which she did not quite catch
about its being too dark for any one to recognize him. They spoke little during the drive,
which was soon over. Bashville was standing at the open door as they came to the house. When
Cashel got out the footman looked at him with interest and some surprise, But when Lydia alighted
he was so startled that he stood open-mouthed, although he was trained to simulate insensibility
to everything except his own business, and to do that as automatically as possible. Cashel
bade Lydia good-bye, and shook hands with her. As she went into the house, she asked Bashville
whether Miss Goff was within. To her surprise, he paid no attention to her, but stared after
the retreating cab. She repeated the question.

"Madam," he said, recovering himself with a start, "she has asked for you four times."

Lydia, relieved of a disagreeable suspicion that her usually faultless footman must be drunk,
thanked him and went up-stairs.

CHAPTER VIII

One morning a handsome young man, elegantly dressed, presented himself at Downing Street, and
asked to see Mr. Lucian Webber. He declined to send in a card, and desired to be announced
simply as "Bashville." Lucian ordered him to be admitted at once, and, when he entered, nodded
amiably to him and invited him to sit down.

"I thank you, sir," said Bashville, seating himself. It struck Lucian then, from a certain
strung-up resolution in his visitor's manner, that he had come on some business of his own,
and not, as he had taken for granted, with a message from his mistress.

"I have come, sir, on my own responsibility this morning. I hope yon will excuse the liberty."

"Certainly. If I can do anything for you, Bashville, don't be afraid to ask. But be as brief
as you can. I am so busy that every second I give you will probably be subtracted from my night's
rest. Will ten minutes be enough?"

"More than enough, sir, thank you. I only wish to ask one question. I own that I am stepping
out of my place to ask it; but I'll risk all that. Does Miss Carew know what the Mr. Cashel
Byron is that she receives every Friday with her other friends?"

"No doubt she does," said Lucian, at once becoming cold in his manner, and looking severely
at Bashville. "What business is that of yours?"

"Do YOU know what he is, sir?" said Bashville, returning Lucian's gaze steadily.

Lucian changed countenance, and replaced a pen that had slipped from a rack on his desk. "He
is not an acquaintance of mine," he said. "I only know him as a friend of Lord Worthington's."

"Sir," said Bashville, with sudden vehemence, "he is no more to Lord Worthington than the racehorse
his lordship bets on. I might as well set up to be a friend of his lordship because I, after
a manner of speaking, know him. Byron is in the ring, sir. A common prize-fighter!"

Lucian, recalling what had passed at Mrs. Hoskyn's, and Lord Worthington's sporting habits,
believed the assertion at once. But he made a faint effort to resist conviction. "Are you sure
of this, Bashville?" he said. "Do you know that your statement is a very serious one?"

"There is no doubt at all about it, sir. Go to any sporting public-house in London and ask
who is the best-known fighting man of the day, and they'll tell you, Cashel Byron. I know all
about him, sir. Perhaps you have heard tell of Ned Skene, who was champion, belike, when you
were at school."

"I believe I have heard the name."

"Just so, sir. Ned Skene picked up this Cashel Byron in the streets of Melbourne, where he
was a common sailor-boy, and trained him for the ring. You may have seen his name in the papers,
sir. The sporting ones are full of him; and he was mentioned in the Times a month ago."

"I never read articles on such subjects. I have hardly time to glance through the ones that
concern me."

"That's the way it is with everybody, sir. Miss Carew never thinks of reading the sporting
intelligence in the papers; and so he passes himself off on her for her equal. He's well known
for his wish to be thought a gentleman, sir, I assure you."

"I have noticed his manner as being odd, certainly."

"Odd, sir! Why, a child might see through him; for he has not the sense to keep his own secret.
Last Friday he was in the library, and he got looking at the new biographical dictionary that
Miss Carew contributed the article on Spinoza to. And what do you think he said, sir? 'This
is a blessed book,' he says. 'Here's ten pages about Napoleon Bonaparte, and not one about
Jack Randall; as if one fighting man wasn't as good as another!' I knew by the way the mistress
took up that saying, and drew him out, so to speak, on the subject, that she didn't know who
she had in her house; and then I determined to tell you, sir. I hope you won't think that I
come here behind his back out of malice against him. All I want is fair play. If I passed myself
off on Miss Carew as a gentleman, I should deserve to be exposed as a cheat; and when he tries
to take advantages that don't belong to him, I think I have a right to expose him."

"Quite right, quite right," said Lucian, who cared nothing for Bashville's motives. "I suppose
this Byron is a dangerous man to have any personal unpleasantness with."

"He knows his business, sir. I am a better judge of wrestling than half of these London professionals;
but I never saw the man that could put a hug on him. Simple as he is, sir, he has a genius
for fighting, and has beaten men of all sizes, weights, and colors. There's a new man from
the black country, named Paradise, who says he'll beat him; but I won't believe it till I see it."

"Well," said Lucian, rising, "I am much indebted to you, Bashville, for your information; and
I will take care to let Miss Carew know how you have--"

"Begging your pardon, sir," said Bashville; "but, if you please, no. I did not come to recommend
myself at the cost of another man; and perhaps Miss Carew might not think it any great recommendation
neither." Lucian looked quickly at him, and seemed about to speak, but checked himself. Bashville
continued, "If he denies it, you may call me as a witness, and I will tell him to his face
that he lies--and so I would if he were twice as dangerous; but, except in that way, I would
ask you, sir, as a favor, not to mention my name to Miss Carew."

"As you please," said Lucian, taking out his purse. "Perhaps you are right. However, you shall
not have your trouble for nothing."

"I couldn't, really, sir," said Bashville, retreating a step. "You will agree with me, I'm
sure, that this is not a thing that a man should take payment for. It is a personal matter
between me and Byron, sir."

Lucian, displeased that a servant should have any personal feelings on any subject, much more
one that concerned his mistress, put back his purse without comment and said, "Will Miss Carew
be at home this afternoon between three and four?"

"I have not heard of any arrangement to the contrary, sir. I will telegraph to you if she goes
out--if you wish."

"It does not matter. Thank you. Good-morning."

"Good-morning, sir," said Bashville, respectfully, as he withdrew. Outside the door his manner
changed. He put on a pair of primrose gloves, took up a silver-mounted walking-stick that he
had left in the corridor, and walked from Downing Street into Whitehall. A party of visitors
from the country, who were standing there examining the buildings, guessed that he was a junior
lord of the Treasury.

He waited in vain that afternoon for Lucian to appear at the house in Regent's Park. There
were no callers, and he wore away the time by endeavoring, with the aid of a library that Miss
Carew had placed at the disposal of her domestics, to unravel the philosophy of Spinoza. At
the end of an hour, feeling satisfied that he had mastered that author's views, he proceeded
to vary the monotony of the long summer's day by polishing Lydia's plate.

Meanwhile, Lucian was considering how he could best make Lydia not only repudiate Cashel's
acquaintance, but feel thoroughly ashamed of herself for having encouraged him, and wholesomely
mistrustful of her own judgment for the future. His parliamentary experience had taught him
to provide himself with a few well-arranged, relevant facts before attempting to influence
the opinions of others on any subject. He knew no more of prize-fighting than that it was a
brutal and illegal practice, akin to cock-fighting, and, like it, generally supposed to be
obsolete. Knowing how prone Lydia was to suspect any received opinion of being a prejudice,
he felt that he must inform himself more particularly. To Lord Worthington's astonishment,
he not only asked him to dinner next evening, but listened with interest while he descanted
to his heart's content on his favorite topic of the ring.

As the days passed, Bashville became nervous, and sometimes wondered whether Lydia had met
her cousin and heard from him of the interview at Downing Street. He fancied that her manner
towards him was changed; and he was once or twice on the point of asking the most sympathetic
of the housemaids whether she had noticed it. On Wednesday his suspense ended. Lucian came,
and had a long conversation with Lydia in the library. Bashville was too honorable to listen
at the door; but he felt a strong temptation to do so, and almost hoped that the sympathetic
housemaid might prove less scrupulous. But Miss Carew's influence extended farther than her
bodily presence; and Lucian's revelation was made in complete privacy.

When he entered the library he looked so serious that she asked him whether he had neuralgia,
from which he occasionally suffered. He replied with some indignation that he had not, and
that he had a communication of importance to make to her.

"What! Another!"

"Yes, another," he said, with a sour smile; "but this time it does not concern myself. May
I warn you as to the character of one of your guests without overstepping my privilege?"

"Certainly. But perhaps you mean Vernet. If so, I am perfectly aware that he is an exiled Communard."

"I do not mean Monsieur Vernet. You understand, I hope, that I do not approve of him, nor of
your strange fancy for Nihilists, Fenians, and other doubtful persons; but I think that even
you might draw the line at a prize-fighter."

Lydia lost color, and said, almost inaudibly, "Cashel Byron!"

"Then you KNEW!" exclaimed Lucian, scandalized.

Lydia waited a moment to recover, settled herself quietly in her chair, and replied, calmly,
"I know what you tell me--nothing more. And now, will you explain to me exactly what a prize-fighter
is?"

"He is simply what his name indicates. He is a man who fights for prizes."

"So does the captain of a man-of-war. And yet society does not place them in the same class--at
least, I do not think so."

"As if there could be any doubt that society does not! There is no analogy whatever between
the two cases. Let me endeavor to open your eyes a little, if that be possible, which I am
sometimes tempted to doubt. A prize-fighter is usually a man of naturally ferocious disposition,
who has acquired some reputation among his associates as a bully; and who, by constantly quarrelling,
has acquired some practice in fighting. On the strength of this reputation he can generally
find some gambler willing to stake a sum of money that he will vanquish a pugilist of established
fame in single combat. Bets are made between the admirers of the two men; a prize is subscribed
for, each party contributing a share; the combatants are trained as racehorses, gamecocks,
or their like are trained; they meet, and beat each other as savagely as they can until one
or the other is too much injured to continue the combat. This takes place in the midst of a
mob of such persons as enjoy spectacles of the kind; that is to say, the vilest blackguards
whom a large city can afford to leave at large, and many whom it cannot. As the prize-money
contributed by each side often amounts to upwards of a thousand pounds, and as a successful
pugilist commands far higher terms for giving tuition in boxing than a tutor at one of the
universities does for coaching, you will see that such a man, while his youth and luck last,
may have plenty of money, and may even, by aping the manners of the gentlemen whom he teaches,
deceive careless people--especially those who admire eccentricity--as to his character and
position."

"What is his true position? I mean before he becomes a prize-fighter."

"Well, he may be a handicraftsman of some kind: a journeyman butcher, skinner, tailor, or baker.
Possibly a soldier, sailor, policeman, gentleman's servant, or what not? But he is generally
a common laborer. The waterside is prolific of such heroes."

"Do they never come from a higher rank?"

"Never even from the better classes in their own. Broken-down gentlemen are not likely to succeed
at work that needs the strength and endurance of a bull and the cruelty of a butcher."

"And the end of a prize-fighter. What is that like?"

"He soon has to give up his trade. For, if he be repeatedly beaten, no one will either bet
on him or subscribe to provide him with a stake. If he is invariably successful, those, if
any, who dare fight him find themselves in a like predicament. In either case his occupation
is gone. If he has saved money he opens a sporting public-house, where he sells spirits of
the worst description to his old rivals and their associates, and eventually drinks himself
to death or bankruptcy. If, however, he has been improvident or unfortunate, he begs from his
former patrons and gives lessons. Finally, when the patrons are tired of him and the pupils
fail, he relapses into the laboring class with a ruined constitution, a disfigured face, a
brutalized nature, and a tarnished reputation."

Lydia remained silent so long after this that Lucian's expression of magisterial severity first
deepened, then wavered, and finally gave way to a sense of injury; for she seemed to have forgotten
him. He was about to protest against this treatment, when she looked at him again, and said,

"Why did Lord Worthington introduce a man of this class to me?"

"Because you asked him to do so. Probably he thought that if you chose to make such a request
without previous inquiry, you should not blame him if you found yourself saddled with an undesirable
acquaintance. Recollect that you asked for the introduction on the platform at Wiltstoken,
in the presence of the man himself. Such a ruffian would be capable of making a disturbance
for much less offence than an explanation and refusal would have given him."

"Lucian," said Lydia, in a tone of gentle admonition, "I asked to be introduced to my tenant,
for whose respectability you had vouched by letting the Warren Lodge to him." Lucian reddened.
"How does Lord Worthington explain Mr. Byron's appearance at Mrs. Hoskyn's?"

"It was a stupid joke. Mrs. Hoskyn had worried Worthington to bring some celebrity to her house;
and, in revenge, he took his pugilistic protege."

"Hm!"

"I do not defend Worthington. But discretion is hardly to be expected from him."

"He has discretion enough to understand a case of this kind thoroughly. But let that pass.
I have been thinking upon what you tell me about these singular people, whose existence I hardly
knew of before. Now, Lucian, in the course of my reading I have come upon denunciations of
every race and pursuit under the sun. Very respectable and well-informed men have held that
Jews, Irishmen, Christians, atheists, lawyers, doctors, politicians, actors, artists, flesh-eaters,
and spirit-drinkers are all of necessity degraded beings. Such statements can be easily proved
by taking a black sheep from each flock, and holding him up as the type. It is more reasonable
to argue a man's character from the nature of his profession; and yet even that is very unsafe.
War is a cruel business; but soldiers are not necessarily bloodthirsty and inhuman men. I am
not quite satisfied that a prize-fighter is a violent and dangerous man because he follows
a violent and dangerous profession--I suppose they call it a profession."

Lucian was about to speak; but she interrupted him by continuing,

"And yet that is not what concerns me at present. Have you found out anything about Mr. Byron
personally? Is he an ordinary representative of his class?"

"No; I should rather think--and hope--that he is a very extraordinary representative of it.
I have traced his history back to his boyhood, when he was a cabin-boy. Having apparently failed
to recommend himself to his employers in that capacity, he became errand-boy to a sort of maitre
d'armes at Melbourne. Here he discovered where his genius lay; and he presently appeared in
the ring with an unfortunate young man named Ducket, whose jaw he fractured. This laid the
foundation of his fame. He fought several battles with unvarying success; but at last he allowed
his valor to get the better of his discretion so far as to kill an Englishman who contended
with him with desperate obstinacy for two hours. I am informed that the particular blow by
which he felled the poor wretch for the last time is known in pugilistic circles as 'Cashel's
killer,' and that he has attempted to repeat it in all his subsequent encounters, without,
however, achieving the same fatal result. The failure has doubtless been a severe disappointment
to him. He fled from Australia and reappeared in America, where he resumed his victorious career,
distinguishing himself specially by throwing a gigantic opponent in some dreadful fashion that
these men have, and laming him for life. He then--"

"Thank you, Lucian," said Lydia rather faintly. "That is quite enough. Are you sure that it
is all true?"

"My authority is Lord Worthington, and a number of newspaper reports which he showed me. Byron
himself will probably be proud to give you the fullest confirmation of the record. I should
add, in justice to him, that he is looked upon as a model--to pugilists--of temperance and
general good conduct."

"Do you remember my remarking a few days ago, on another subject, how meaningless our observations
are until we are given the right thread to string them on?"

"Yes," said "Webber, disconcerted by the allusion.

"My acquaintance with this man is a case in point. He has obtruded his horrible profession
upon me every time we have met. I have actually seen him publicly cheered as a pugilist-hero;
and yet, being off the track, and ignorant of the very existence of such a calling, I have
looked on and seen nothing."

Lydia then narrated her adventure in Soho, and listened with the perfect patience of indifference
to his censure of her imprudence in going there alone.

"And now, Lydia," he added, "may I ask what you intend to do in this matter?"

"What would you have me do?"

"Drop his acquaintance at once. Forbid him your house in the most explicit terms."

"A pleasant task!" said Lydia, ironically. "But I will do it--not so much, perhaps, because
he is a prize-fighter, as because he is an impostor. Now go to the writing-table and draft
me a proper letter to send him."

Lucian's face elongated. "I think," he said, "you can do that better for yourself. It is a
delicate sort of thing."

"Yes. It is not so easy as you implied a moment ago. Otherwise I should not require your assistance.
As it is--" She pointed again to the table.

Lucian was not ready with an excuse. He sat down reluctantly, and, after some consideration,
indited the following:

"Miss Carew presents her compliments to Mr. Cashel Byron, and begs to inform him that she will
not be at home during the remainder of the season as heretofore. She therefore regrets that
she cannot have the pleasure of receiving him on Friday afternoon."

"I think you will find that sufficient," said Lucian.

"Probably," said Lydia, smiling as she read it. "But what shall I do if he takes offence; calls
here, breaks the windows, and beats Bashville? Were I in his place, that is what such a letter
would provoke me to do."

"He dare not give any trouble. But I will warn the police if you feel anxious."

"By no means. We must not show ourselves inferior to him in courage, which is, I suppose, his
cardinal virtue."

"If you write the note now, I will post it for you."

"No, thank you. I will send it with my other letters."

Lucian would rather have waited; but she would not write while he was there. So he left, satisfied
on the whole with the success of his mission. When he was gone, she took a pen, endorsed his
draft neatly, placed it in a drawer, and wrote to Cashel thus:

"Dear Mr. Cashel Byron,--I have just discovered your secret. I am sorry; but you must not come
again. Farewell. Yours faithfully,

"Lydia Carew."

Lydia kept this note by her until next morning, when she read it through carefully. She then
sent Bashville to the post with it.

CHAPTER IX

Cashel's pupils frequently requested him to hit them hard--not to play with them--to accustom
them to regular, right down, severe hitting, and no nonsense. He only pretended to comply;
for he knew that a black eye or loosened tooth would be immoderately boasted of if received
in combat with a famous pugilist, and that the sufferer's friends would make private notes
to avoid so rough a professor. But when Miss Carew's note reached him he made an exception
to his practice in this respect. A young guardsman, whose lesson began shortly after the post
arrived, remarked that Cashel was unusually distraught. He therefore exhorted his instructor
to wake up and pitch into him in earnest. Immediately he received a blow in the epigastrium
that stretched him almost insensible on the floor. Rising with his complexion considerably
whitened, he recollected an appointment which would prevent him from finishing his lesson,
and withdrew, declaring in a somewhat shaky voice that that was the sort of bout he really enjoyed.

Cashel did not at first make any profitable use of the leisure thus earned. He walked to and
fro, cursing, and occasionally stopping to read the letter. His restlessness only increased
his agitation. The arrival of a Frenchman whom he employed to give lessons in fencing made
the place unendurable to him. He changed his attire, went out, called a cab, and bade the driver,
with an oath, drive to Lydia's house as fast as the horse could go. The man made all the haste
he could, and was presently told impatiently that there was no hurry. Accustomed to this sort
of inconsistency, he was not surprised when, as they approached the house, he was told not
to stop but to drive slowly past. Then, in obedience to further instructions, he turned and
repassed the door. As he did so a lady appeared for an instant at a window. Immediately his
fare, with a groan of mingled rage and fear, sprang from the moving vehicle, rushed up the
steps of the mansion, and rang the bell violently. Bashville, faultlessly dressed and impassibly
mannered, opened the door. In reply to Cashel's half-inarticulate inquiry, he said,

"Miss Carew is not at home."

"You lie," said Cashel, his eyes suddenly dilating. "I saw her."

Bashville reddened, but replied, coolly, "Miss Carew cannot see you to-day."

"Go and ask her," returned Cashel sternly, advancing.

Bashville, with compressed lips, seized the door to shut him out; but Cashel forced it back
against him, sent him reeling some paces by its impact, went in, and shut the door behind him.
He had to turn from Bashville for a moment to do this, and before he could face him again he
was clutched, tripped, and flung down upon the tessellated pavement of the hall.

When Cashel gave him the lie, and pushed the door against him, the excitement he had been suppressing
since his visit to Lucian exploded. He had thrown Cashel in Cornish fashion, and now desperately
awaited the upshot.

Cashel got up so rapidly that he seemed to rebound from the flags. Bashville, involuntarily
cowering before his onslaught, just escaped his right fist, and felt as though his heart had
been drawn with it as it whizzed past his ear. He turned and fled frantically up-stairs, mistaking
for the clatter of pursuit the noise with which Cashel, overbalanced by his ineffectual blow,
stumbled against the banisters.

Lydia was in her boudoir with Alice when Bashville darted in and locked the door. Alice rose
and screamed. Lydia, though startled, and that less by the unusual action than by the change
in a familiar face which she had never seen influenced by emotion before, sat still and quietly
asked what was the matter. Bashville checked himself for a moment. Then he spoke unintelligibly,
and went to the window, which he opened. Lydia divined that he was about to call for help to
the street.

"Bashville," she said, authoritatively: "be silent, and close the window. I will go down-stairs
myself."

Bashville then ran to prevent her from unlocking the door; but she paid no attention to him.
He did not dare to oppose her forcibly. He was beginning to recover from his panic, and to
feel the first stings of shame for having yielded to it.

"Madam," he said: "Byron is below; and he insists on seeing you. He's dangerous; and he's too
strong for me. I have done my best--on my honor I have. Let me call the police. Stop," he added,
as she opened the door. "If either of us goes, it must be me."

"I will see him in the library," said Lydia, composedly. "Tell him so; and let him wait there
for me--if you can approach him without running any risk."

"Oh, pray let him call the police," urged Alice. "Don't attempt to go to that man."

"Nonsense!" said Lydia, good-humoredly. "I am not in the least afraid. We must not fail in
courage when we have a prize-fighter to deal with."

Bashville, white, and preventing with difficulty his knees from knocking together, went down-stairs
and found Cashel leaning upon the balustrade, panting, and looking perplexedly about him as
he wiped his dabbled brow. Bashville approached him with the firmness of a martyr, halted on
the third stair, and said,

"Miss Carew will see you in the library. Come this way, please."

Cashel's lips moved, but no sound came from them; he followed Bashville in silence. When they
entered the library Lydia was already there. Bashville withdrew without a word. Then Cashel
sat down, and, to her consternation, bent his head on his hand and yielded to an hysterical
convulsion. Before she could resolve how to act he looked up at her with his face distorted
and discolored, and tried to speak.

"Pray be calm," said Lydia. "I am told that you wish to speak to me."

"I don't wish to speak to you ever again," said Cashel, hoarsely. "You told your servant to
throw me down the steps. That's enough for me."

Lydia caught from him the tendency to sob which he was struggling with; but she repressed it,
and answered, firmly, "If my servant has been guilty of the least incivility to you, Mr. Cashel
Byron, he has exceeded his orders."

"It doesn't matter," said Cashel. "He may thank his luck that he has his head on. If I had
planted on him that time--but HE doesn't matter. Hold on a bit--I can't talk--I shall get my
second wind presently, and then--" Cashel stopped a moment to pant, and then asked, "Why are
you going to give me up?"

Lydia ranged her wits in battle array, and replied,

"Do you remember our conversation at Mrs. Hoskyn's?"

"Yes."

"You admitted then that if the nature of your occupation became known to me our acquaintance
should cease. That has now come to pass."

"That was all very fine talk to excuse my not telling you. But I find, like many another man
when put to the proof, that I didn't mean it. Who told you I was a fighting man?"

"I had rather not tell you that."

"Aha!" said Cashel, with a triumph that was half choked by the remnant of his hysteria. "Who
is trying to make a secret now, I should like to know?"

"I do so in this instance because I am afraid to expose a friend to your resentment."

"And why? He's a man, of course; else you wouldn't be afraid. You think that I'd go straight
off and murder him. Perhaps he told you that it would come quite natural to a man like me--a
ruffian like me--to smash him up. That comes of being a coward. People run my profession down;
not because there is a bad one or two in it--there's plenty of bad bishops, if you come to
that--but because they're afraid of us. You may make yourself easy about your friend. I am
accustomed to get well paid for the beatings I give; and your own common-sense ought to tell
you that any one who is used to being paid for a job is just the last person in the world to
do it for nothing."

"I find the contrary to be the case with first-rate artists," said Lydia.

"Thank you," retorted Cashel, sarcastically. "I ought to make you a bow for that. I'm glad
you acknowledge that it IS an art."

"But," said Lydia seriously, "it seems to me that it is an art wholly anti-social and retrograde.
And I fear that you have forced this interview on me to no purpose."

"I don't know whether it's anti-social or not. But I think it hard that I should be put out
of decent society when fellows that do far worse than I are let in. Who did I see here last
Friday, the most honored of your guests? Why, that Frenchman with the gold spectacles. What
do you think I was told when I asked what HIS little game was? Baking dogs in ovens to see
how long a dog could live red hot! I'd like to catch him doing it to a dog of mine. Ay; and
sticking a rat full of nails to see how much pain a rat could stand. Why, it's just sickening.
Do you think I'd have shaken hands with that chap? If he hadn't been a guest of yours I'd have
given him a notion of how much pain a Frenchman can stand without any nails in him. And HE'S
to be received and made much of, while I am kicked out! Look at your relation, the general.
What is he but a fighting man, I should like to know? Isn't it his pride and boast that as
long as he is paid so much a day he'll ask no questions whether a war is fair or unfair, but
just walk out and put thousands of men in the best way to kill and be killed?--keeping well
behind them himself all the time, mind you. Last year he was up to his chin in the blood of
a lot of poor blacks that were no more a match for his armed men than a feather-weight would
be for me. Bad as I am, I wouldn't attack a feather-weight, or stand by and see another heavy
man do it. Plenty of your friends go pigeon-shooting to Hurlingham. THERE'S a humane and manly
way of spending a Saturday afternoon! Lord Worthington, that comes to see you when he likes,
though he's too much of a man or too little of a shot to kill pigeons, thinks nothing of fox-hunting.
Do you think foxes like to be hunted, or that the people that hunt them have such fine feelings
that they can afford to call prize-fighters names? Look at the men that get killed or lamed
every year at steeple-chasing, fox-hunting, cricket, and foot-ball! Dozens of them! Look at
the thousands killed in battle! Did you ever hear of any one being killed in the ring? Why,
from first to last, during the whole century that prize-fighting has been going on, there's
not been six fatal accidents at really respectable fights. It's safer than dancing; many a
woman has danced her skirt into the fire and been burned. I once fought a man who had spoiled
his constitution with bad living; and he exhausted himself so by going on and on long after
he was beaten that he died of it, and nearly finished me, too. If you'd heard the fuss that
even the oldest fighting men made over it you'd have thought that a baby had died from falling
out of its cradle. A good milling does a man more good than harm. And if all these--dog-bakers,
and soldiers, and pigeon-shooters, and fox-hunters, and the rest of them--are made welcome
here, why am I shut out like a brute beast?"

"Truly I do not know," said Lydia, puzzled; "unless it be that your colleagues have failed
to recommend themselves to society by their extra-professional conduct as the others have."

"I grant you that fighting men ar'n't gentlemen, as a rule. No more were painters, or poets,
once upon a time. But what I want to know is this: Supposing a fighting man has as good manners
as your friends, and is as well born, why shouldn't he mix with them and be considered their
equal?"

"The distinction seems arbitrary, I confess. But perhaps the true remedy would be to exclude
the vivisectors and soldiers, instead of admitting the prize-fighters. Mr. Cashel Byron," added
Lydia, changing her manner, "I cannot discuss this with you. Society has a prejudice against
you. I share it; and I cannot overcome it. Can you find no nobler occupation than these fierce
and horrible encounters by which you condescend to gain a living?"

"No," said Cashel, flatly. "I can't. That's just where it is."

Lydia looked grave, and said nothing.

"You don't see it?" said Cashel. "Well, I'll just tell you all about myself, and then leave
you to judge. May I sit down while I talk?" He had risen in the course of his remarks on Lydia's
scientific and military acquaintances.

She pointed to a chair near her. Something in the action brought color to his cheeks.

"I believe I was the most unfortunate devil of a boy that ever walked," he began, when he was
seated. "My mother was--and is--an actress, and a tiptop crack in her profession. One of the
first things I remember is sitting on the floor in the corner of a room where there was a big
glass, and she flaring away before it, attitudinizing and spouting Shakespeare like mad. I
was afraid of her, because she was very particular about my manners and appearance, and would
never let me go near a theatre. I know very little about either my people or hers; for she
boxed my ears one day for asking who my father was, and I took good care not to ask her again.
She was quite young when I was a child; at first I thought her a sort of angel--I should have
been fond of her, I think, if she had let me. But she didn't, somehow; and I had to keep my
affection for the servants. I had plenty of variety in that way; for she gave her whole establishment
the sack about once every two months, except a maid who used to bully her, and gave me nearly
all the nursing I ever got. I believe it was my crying about some housemaid or other who went
away that first set her abusing me for having low tastes--a sort of thing that used to cut
me to the heart, and which she kept up till the very day I left her for good. We were a precious
pair: I sulky and obstinate, she changeable and hot-tempered. She used to begin breakfast sometimes
by knocking me to the other side of the room with a slap, and finish it by calling me her darling
boy and promising me all manner of toys and things. I soon gave up trying to please her, or
like her, and became as disagreeable a young imp as you'd ask to see. My only thought was to
get all I could out of her when she was in a good-humor, and to be sullen and stubborn when
she was in a tantrum. One day a boy in the street threw some mud at me, and I ran in crying
and complained to her. She told me I was a little coward. I haven't forgiven her for that yet--perhaps
because it was one of the few true things she ever said to me. I was in a state of perpetual
aggravation; and I often wonder that I wasn't soured for life at that time. At last I got to
be such a little fiend that when she hit me I used to guard off her blows, and look so wicked
that I think she got afraid of me. Then she put me to school, telling me that I had no heart,
and telling the master that I was an ungovernable young brute. So I, like a little fool, cried
at leaving her; and she, like a big one, cried back again over me--just after telling the master
what a bad one I was, mind you--and off she went, leaving her darling boy and blessed child
howling at his good luck in getting rid of her.

"I was a nice boy to let loose in a school. I could speak as well as an actor, as far as pronunciation
goes; but I could hardly read words of one syllabile; and as to writing, I couldn't make pothooks
and hangers respectably. To this day, I can no more spell than old Ned Skene can. What was
a worse sort of ignorance was that I had no idea of fair play. I thought that all servants
would be afraid of me, and that all grown-up people would tyrannize over me. I was afraid of
everybody; afraid that my cowardice would be found out; and as angry and cruel in my ill-tempers
as cowards always are. Now you'll hardly believe this; but what saved me from going to the
bad altogether was my finding out that I was a good one to fight. The bigger boys were given
to fighting, and used to have mills every Saturday afternoon, with seconds, bottle-holders,
and everything complete, except the ropes and stakes. We little chaps used to imitate them
among ourselves as best we could. At first, when they made me fight, I shut my eyes and cried;
but for all that I managed to catch the other fellow tight round the waist and throw him. After
that it became a regular joke to make me fight, for I always cried. But the end of it was that
I learned to keep my eyes open and hit straight. I had no trouble about fighting then. Somehow,
I could tell by instinct when the other fellow was going to hit me, and I always hit him first.
It's the same with me now in the ring; I know what a man is going to do before he rightly knows
himself. The power that this gave me, civilized me. It made me cock of the school; and I had
to act accordingly. I had enough good-nature left to keep me from being a bully; and, as cock,
I couldn't be mean or childish. There would be nothing like fighting for licking boys into
shape if every one could be cock; but every one can't; so I suppose it does more harm than good.

"I should have enjoyed school well enough if I had worked at my books. But I wouldn't study;
and the masters were all down on me as an idler--though I shouldn't have been like that if
they had known how to teach--I have learned since what teaching is. As to the holidays, they
were the worst part of the year to me. When I was left at school I was savage at not being
let go home; and when I went home my mother did nothing but find fault with my school-boy manners.
I was getting too big to be cuddled as her darling boy, you understand. In fact, her treatment
of me was just the old game with the affectionate part left out. It wasn't pleasant, after
being cock of the school, to be made feel like a good-for-nothing little brat tied to her apron-strings.
When she saw that I was learning nothing she sent me to another school at a place in the north
called Panley. I stayed there until I was seventeen; and then she came one day, and we had
a row, as usual. She said she wouldn't let me leave school until I was nineteen; and so I settled
that question by running away the same night. I got to Liverpool, where I hid in a ship bound
for Australia. When I was starved out they treated me better than I expected; and I worked
hard enough to earn my passage and my victuals. But when I wad left ashore in Melbourne I was
in a pretty pickle. I knew nobody, and I had no money. Everything that a man could live by
was owned by some one or other. I walked through the town looking for a place where they might
want a boy to run errands or to clean windows. But somehow I hadn't the cheek to go into the
shops and ask. Two or three times, when I was on the point of trying, I caught sight of some
cad of a shopman, and made up my mind that I wouldn't be ordered about by HIM, and that since
I had the whole town to choose from I might as well go on to the next place. At last, quite
late in the afternoon, I saw an advertisement stuck up on a gymnasium, and, while I was reading
it, I got talking to old Ned Skene, the owner, who was smoking at the door. He took a fancy
to me, and offered to have me there as a sort of lad-of-all-work. I was only too glad to get
the chance, and I closed with him at once. As time went on I became so clever with the gloves
that Ned matched me against a light-weight named Ducket, and bet a lot of money that I would
win. Well, I couldn't disappoint him after his being so kind to me--Mrs. Skene had made as
much of me as if I was her own son. What could I do but take my bread as it came to me? I was
fit for nothing else. Even if I had been able to write a good hand and keep accounts I couldn't
have brought myself to think that quill-driving and counting other people's money was a fit
employment for a man. It's not what a man would like to do that he must do in this world, it's
what he CAN do; and the only mortal thing I could do properly was to fight. There was plenty
of money and plenty of honor and glory among my acquaintances to be got by fighting. So I challenged
Ducket, and knocked him all to pieces in about ten minutes. I half killed him because I didn't
know my own strength and was afraid of him. I have been at the same work ever since. I was
training for a fight when I was down at Wiltstoken; and Mellish was my trainer. It came off
the day you saw me at Clapham; that was how I came to have a black eye. Wiltstoken did for
me. With all my nerve and science, I'm no better than a baby at heart; and ever since I found
out that my mother wasn't an angel I have always had a notion that a real angel would turn
up some day. You see, I never cared much for women. Bad as my mother was as far as being what
you might call a parent went, she had something in her looks and manners that gave me a better
idea of what a nice woman was like than I had of most things; and the girls I met in Australia
and America seemed very small potatoes to me in comparison with her. Besides, of course they
were not ladies. I was fond of Mrs. Skene because she was good to me; and I made myself agreeable,
for her sake, to the girls that came to see her; but in reality I couldn't stand them. Mrs.
Skene said that they were all setting their caps at me--women are death on a crack fighter--but
the more they tried it on the less I liked them. It was no go; I could get on with the men
well enough, no matter how common they were; but the snobbishness of my breed came out with
regard to the women. When I saw you that day at Wiltstoken walk out of the trees and stand
looking so quietly at me and Mellish, and then go back out of sight without a word, I'm blessed
if I didn't think you were the angel come at last. Then I met you at the railway station and
walked with you. You put the angel out of my head quick enough; for an angel, after all, is
only a shadowy, childish notion--I believe it's all gammon about there being any in heaven--but
you gave me a better idea than mamma of what a woman should be, and you came up to that idea
and went beyond it. I have been in love with you ever since; and if I can't have you, I don't
care what becomes of me. I know I am a bad lot, and have always been one; but when I saw you
taking pleasure in the society of fellows just as bad as myself, I didn't see why I should
keep away when I was dying to come. I am no worse than the dog-baker, any how. And hang it,
Miss Lydia, I don't want to brag; but I never fought a cross or struck a foul blow in my life;
and I have never been beaten, though I'm only a middle-weight, and have stood up with the best
fourteen-stone men in the Colonies, the States, or in England."

Cashel ceased. As he sat eying her wistfully, Lydia, who had been perfectly still, said musingly,

"Strange! that I should be so much more prejudiced than I knew. What will you think of me when
I tell you that your profession does not seem half so shocking now that I know you to be the
son of an artist, and not a journeyman butcher or a laborer, as my cousin told me."

"What!" exclaimed Cashel. "That lantern-jawed fellow told you I was a butcher!"

"I did not mean to betray him; but, as I have already said, I am bad at keeping secrets. Mr.
Lucian Webber is my cousin and friend, and has done me many services. May I rest assured that
he has nothing to fear from you?"

"He has no right to tell lies about me. He is sweet on you, too: I twigged that at Wiltstoken.
I have a good mind to let him know whether I am a butcher or not."

"He did not say so. What he told me of you, as far as it went, is exactly confirmed by what
you have said yourself. But I happened to ask him to what class men of your calling usually
belonged; and he said that they were laborers, butchers, and so forth. Do you resent that?"

"I see plainly enough that you won't let me resent it. I should like to know what else he said
of me. But he was right enough about the butchers. There are all sorts of blackguards in the
ring: there's no use in denying it. Since it's been made illegal, decent men won't go into
it. But, all the same, it's not the fighting men, but the betting men, that bring discredit
on it. I wish your cousin had held his confounded tongue."

"I wish you had forestalled him by telling me the truth,"

"I wish I had, now. But what's the use of wishing? I didn't dare run the chance of losing you.
See how soon you forbade me the house when you did find out."

"It made little difference," said Lydia, gravely.

"You were always friendly to me," said Cashel, plaintively.

"More so than you were to me. You should not have deceived me. And now I think we had better
part. I am glad to know your history; and I admit that when you embraced your profession you
made perhaps the best choice that society offered you. I do not blame you."

"But you give me the sack. Is that it?"

"What do you propose, Mr. Cashel Byron? Is it to visit my house in the intervals of battering
and maiming butchers and laborers?"

"No, it's not," retorted Cashel. "You're very aggravating. I won't stay much longer in the
ring now, because my luck is too good to last. I shall have to retire soon, luck or no luck,
because no one can match me. Even now there's nobody except Bill Paradise that pretends to
be able for me; and I'll settle him in September if he really means business. After that, I'll
retire. I expect to be worth ten thousand pounds then. Ten thousand pounds, I'm told, is the
same as five hundred a year. Well, I suppose, judging from the style you keep here, that you're
worth as much more, besides your place in the country; so, if you will marry me, we shall have
a thousand a year between us. I don't know much of money matters; but at any rate we can live
like fighting-cocks on that much. That's a straight and business-like proposal, isn't it?"

"And if I refuse?" said Lydia, with some sternness.

"Then you may have the ten thousand pounds to do what you like with," said Cashel, despairingly.
"It won't matter what becomes of me. I won't go to the devil for you or any woman if I can
help it; and I--but where's the good of saying IF you refuse. I know I don't express myself
properly; I'm a bad hand at sentimentality; but if I had as much gab as a poet, I couldn't
be any fonder of you, or think more highly of you."

"But you are mistaken as to the amount of my income."

"That doesn't matter a bit. If you have more, why, the more the merrier. If you have less,
or if you have to give up all your property when you're married, I will soon make another ten
thousand to supply the loss. Only give me one good word, and, by George, I'll fight the seven
champions of Christendom, one down and t'other come on, for five thousand a side each. Hang
the money!"

"I am richer than you suppose," said Lydia, unmoved. "I cannot tell you exactly how much I
possess; but my income is about forty thousand pounds."

"Forty thousand pounds!" ejaculated Cashel.

"Holy Moses! I didn't think the queen had so much as that."

He paused a moment, and became very red. Then, in a voice broken by mortification, he said,
"I see I have been making a fool of myself," and took his hat and turned to go.

"It does not follow that you should go at once without a word," said Lydia, betraying nervousness
for the first time during the interview.

"Oh, that's all rot," said Cashel. "I may be a fool while my eyes are shut, but I'm sensible
enough when they're open. I have no business here. I wish to the Lord I had stayed in Australia."

"Perhaps it would have been better," said Lydia, troubled. "But since we have met, it is useless
to deplore it; and--Let me remind you of one thing. You have pointed out to me that I have
made friends of men whose pursuits are no better than yours. I do not wholly admit that; but
there is one respect in which they are on the same footing as you. They are all, as far as
worldly gear is concerned, much poorer than I. Many of them, I fear, are much poorer than you are."

Cashel looked up quickly with returning hope; but it lasted only a moment. He shook his head
dejectedly.

"I am at least grateful to you," she continued, "because you have sought me for my own sake,
knowing nothing of my wealth."

"I should think not," groaned Cashel. "Your wealth may be a very fine thing for the other fellows;
and I'm glad you have it, for your own sake. But it's a settler for me. It's knocked me out
of time, so it has. I sha'n't come up again; and the sooner the sponge is chucked up in my
corner, the better. So good-bye."

"Good-bye," said Lydia, almost as pale as he had now become, "since you will have it so."

"Since the devil will have it so," said Cashel, ruefully. "It's no use wishing to have it any
other way. The luck is against me. I hope, Miss Carew, that you'll excuse me for making such
an ass of myself. It's all my blessed innocence; I never was taught any better."

"I have no quarrel with you except on the old score of hiding the truth from me; and that I
forgive you--as far as the evil of it affects me. As for your declaration of attachment to
me personally, I have received many similar ones that have flattered me less. But there are
certain scruples between us. You will not court a woman a hundred-fold richer than yourself;
and I will not entertain a prize-fighter. My wealth frightens every man who is not a knave;
and your profession frightens every woman who is not a fury."

"Then you--Just tell me this," said Cashel, eagerly. "Suppose I were a rich swell, and were
not a--"

"No," said Lydia, peremptorily interrupting him. "I will suppose nothing but what is."

Cashel relapsed into melancholy. "If you only hadn't been kind to me!" he said. "I think the
reason I love you so much is that you're the only person that is not afraid of me. Other people
are civil because they daren't be otherwise to the cock of the ring. It's a lonely thing to
be a champion. You knew nothing about that; and you knew I was afraid of you; and yet you were
as good as gold."

"It is also a lonely thing to be a very rich woman. People are afraid of my wealth, and of
what they call my learning. We two have at least one experience in common. Now do me a great
favor, by going. We have nothing further to say."

"I'll go in two seconds. But I don't believe much in YOUR being lonely. That's only fancy."

"Perhaps so. Most feelings of this kind are only fancies."

There was a pause. Then Cashel said,

"I don't feel half so downhearted as I did a minute ago. Are you sure that you're not angry
with me?"

"Quite sure. Pray let me say good-bye."

"And may I never see you again? Never at all?--world without end, amen?"

"Never as the famous prize-fighter. But if a day should come when Mr. Cashel Byron will be
something better worthy of his birth and nature, I will not forget an old friend. Are you satisfied
now?"

Cashel's face began to glow, and the roots of his hair to tingle. "One thing more," he said.
"If you meet me by chance in the street before that, will you give me a look? I don't ask for
a regular bow, but just a look to keep me going?"

"I have no intention of cutting you," said Lydia, gravely. "But do not place yourself purposely
in my way."

"Honor bright, I won't. I'll content myself with walking through that street in Soho occasionally.
Now I'm off; I know you're in a hurry to be rid of me. So good-b--Stop a bit, though. Perhaps
when that time you spoke of comes, you will be married."

"It is possible; but I am not likely to marry. How many more things have you to say that you
have no right to say?"

"Not one," said Cashel, with a laugh that rang through the house. "I never was happier in my
life, though I'm crying inside all the time. I'll have a try for you yet. Good-bye. No," he
added, turning from her proffered hand; "I daren't touch it; I should eat you afterwards."
And he ran out of the room.

In the hall was Bashville, pale and determined, waiting there to rush to the assistance of
his mistress at her first summons. He had a poker concealed at hand. Having just heard a great
laugh, and seeing Cashel come down-stairs in high spirits, he stood stock- still, and did not
know what to think.

"Well, old chap," said Cashel, boisterously, slapping him on the shoulder, "so you're alive
yet. Is there any one in the dining-room?"

"No," said Bashville.

"There's a thick carpet there to fall soft on," said Cashel, pulling Bashville into the room.
"Come along. Now, show me that little trick of yours again. Come, don't be afraid. Down with
me. Take care you don't knock my head against the fire-irons."

"But--"

"But be hanged. You were spry enough at it before. Come!"

Bashville, after a moment's hesitation, seized Cashel, who immediately became grave and attentive,
and remained imperturbably so while Nashville expertly threw him. He sat for a moment thinking
on the hearth-rug before he rose. "I see," he said, then, getting up. "Now, do it again."

"But it makes such a row," remonstrated Bashville.

"Only once more. There'll be no row this time."

"Well, you ARE an original sort of cove," said Bashville, complying. But instead of throwing
his man, he found himself wedged into a collar formed by Cashel's arms, the least constriction
of which would have strangled him. Cashel again roared with laughter as he released him.

"That's the way, ain't it?" he said. "You can't catch an old fox twice in the same trap. Do
you know any more falls?"

"I do," said Bashville; "but I really can't show them to you here. I shall get into trouble
on account of the noise."

"You can come down to me whenever you have an evening out," said Cashel, handing him a card,
"to that address, and show me what you know, and I'll see what I can do with you. There's the
making of a man in you."

"You're very kind," said Bashville, pocketing the card with a grin.

"And now let me give you a word of advice that will be of use to you as long as you live,"
said Cashel, impressively. "You did a very silly thing to-day. You threw a man down--a fighting-man--and
then stood looking at him like a fool, waiting for him to get up and kill you. If ever you
do that again, fall on him as heavily as you can the instant he's off his legs. Drop your shoulder
well into him, and, if he pulls you over, make play with the back of your head. If he's altogether
too big for you, put your knee on his throat as if by accident. But, on no account, stand and
do nothing. It's flying in the face of Providence."

Cashel emphasized these counsels by taps of his forefinger on one of Bashville's buttons. In
conclusion, he nodded, opened the house-door, and walked away in buoyant spirits.

Lydia, standing year the library window, saw him pass, and observed how his light, alert step
and a certain gamesome assurance of manner marked him off from a genteelly promenading middle-aged
gentleman, a trudging workman, and a vigorously striding youth who were also passing by. The
iron railings through which she saw him reminded her of the admirable and dangerous creatures
which were passing and repassing behind iron bars in the park yonder. But she exulted, in her
quiet manner, in the thought that, dangerous as he was, she had no fear of him. When his cabman
had found him and driven him off she went to her desk, opened a private drawer in it, took
out her falher's last letter, and sat for some time looking at it without unfolding it.

"It would be a strange thing, father," she said, as if he were actually there to hear her,
"if your paragon should turn aside from her friends, the artists, philosophers, and statesmen,
to give herself to an illiterate prize-fighter. I felt a pang of absolute despair when he replied
to my forty thousand pounds a year with an unanswerable good-bye."

She locked up her father, as it were, in the drawer again, and rang the bell. Bashville appeared,
somewhat perturbed.

"If Mr. Byron calls again, admit him if I am at home."

"Yes, madam."

"Thank you."

"Begging your pardon, madam, but may I ask has any complaint been made of me?"

"None." Bashville was reluctantly withdrawing when she added, "Mr. Byron gave me to understand
that you tried to prevent his entrance by force. You exposed yourself to needless risk by doing
so; and you may make a rule in future that when people are importunate, and will not go away
when asked, they had better come in until you get special instructions from me. I am not finding
fault; on the contrary, I approve of your determination to carry out your orders; but under
exceptional circumstances you may use your own discretion."

"He shoved the door into my face, and I acted on the impulse of the moment, madam. I hope you
will forgive the liberty I took in locking the door of the boudoir. He is older and heavier
than I am, madam; and he has the advantage of being a professional. Else I should have stood
my ground."

"I am quite satisfied," said Lydia, a little coldly, as she left the room.

"How long you have been!" cried Alice, almost in hysterics, as Lydia entered. "Is he gone?
What were those dreadful noises? IS anything the matter?"

"Dancing and late hours are the matter," said Lydia, coolly. "The season is proving too much
for you, Alice."

"It is not the season; it is the man," said Alice, with a sob.

"Indeed? I have been in conversation with the man for more than half an hour; and Bashville
has been in actual combat with him; yet we are not in hysterics. You have been sitting here
at your ease, have yon not?"

"I am not in hysterics," said Alice, indignantly.

"So much the better," said Lydia, gravely, placing her hand on the forehead of Alice, who subsided
with a sniff.

CHAPTER X

Mrs. Byron, under her stage name of Adelaide Gisborne, was now, for the second time in her
career, much talked of in London, where she had boon for many years almost forgotten. The metropolitan
managers of her own generation had found that her success in new parts was very uncertain;
that she was more capricious than the most petted favorites of the public; and that her invariable
reply to a business proposal was that she detested the stage, and was resolved never to set
foot upon it again. So they had managed to do without her for so long that the younger London
playgoers knew her by reputation only as an old-fashioned actress who wandered through the
provinces palming herself off on the ignorant inhabitants as a great artist, and boring them
with performances of the plays of Shakespeare. It suited Mrs. Byron well to travel with the
nucleus of a dramatic company from town to town, staying a fortnight in each, and repeating
half a dozen characters in which she was very effective, and which she knew so well that she
never thought about them except when, as indeed often happened, she had nothing else to think
about. Most of the provincial populations received her annual visits with enthusiasm. Among
them she found herself more excitingly applauded before the curtain, her authority more despotic
behind it, her expenses smaller, and her gains greater than in London, for which she accordingly
cared as little as London cared for her. As she grew older she made more money and spent less.
When she complained to Cashel of the cost of his education, she was rich. Since he had relieved
her of that cost she had visited America, Egypt, India, and the colonies, and had grown constantly
richer. From this great tour she had returned to England on the day when Cashel added the laurels
of the Flying Dutchman to his trophies; and the next Sunday's paper had its sporting column
full of the prowess of Cashel Byron, and its theatrical column full of the genius of Adelaide
Gisborne. But she never read sporting columns, nor he theatrical ones.

The managers who had formerly avoided Mrs. Byron were by this time dead, bankrupt, or engaged
in less hazardous pursuits. One of their successors had lately restored Shakespeare to popularity
as signally as Cashel had restored the prize ring. He was anxious to produce the play of "King
John," being desirous of appearing as Faulconbridge, a part for which he was physically unfitted.
Though he had no suspicion of his unfitness, he was awake to the fact that the favorite London
actresses, though admirable in modern comedy, were not mistresses of what he called, after
Sir Walter Scott, the "big bow wow" style required for the part of Lady Constance in Shakespeare's
history. He knew that he could find in the provinces many veteran players who knew every gesture
and inflection of voice associated by tradition with the part; but he was afraid that they
would remind Londoners of Richardson's show, and get Faulconbridge laughed at. Then he thought
of Adelaide Gisborne. For some hours after the idea came to him he was gnawed at by the fear
that her performance would throw his into the shade. But his confidence in his own popularity
helped his love of good acting to prevail; and he made the newly returned actress a tempting
offer, instigating some journalist friends of his at the same time to lament over the decay
of the grand school of acting, and to invent or republish anecdotes of Mrs. Siddons.

This time Mrs. Byron said nothing about detesting the stage. She had really detested it once;
but by the time she was rich enough to give up the theatre she had worn that feeling out, and
had formed a habit of acting which was as irksome to shake off as any other habit. She also
found a certain satisfaction in making money with ease and certainty, and she made so much
that at last she began to trifle with plans of retirement, of playing in Paris, of taking a
theatre in London, and other whims. The chief public glory of her youth had been a sudden triumph
in London on the occasion of her first appearance on any stage; and she now felt a mind to
repeat this and crown her career where it had begun. So she accepted the manager's offer, and
even went the length of reading the play of "King John" in order to ascertain what it was all
about.

The work of advertisement followed her assent. Portraits of Adelaide Gisborne were displayed
throughout the town. Paragraphs in the papers mentioned large sums as the cost of mounting
the historical masterpiece of the national bard. All the available seats in the theatre--except
some six or seven hundred in the pit and gallery--were said to be already disposed of for the
first month of the expected run of the performance. The prime minister promised to be present
on the opening night. Absolute archaeologic accuracy was promised. Old paintings were compared
to ascertain the dresses of the period. A scene into which the artist had incautiously painted
a pointed arch was condemned as an anachronism. Many noblemen gave the actor-manager access
to their collections of armor and weapons in order that his accoutrement should exactly counterfeit
that of a Norman baron. Nothing remained doubtful except the quality of the acting.

It happened that one of the most curious documents of the period in question was a scrap of
vellum containing a fragment of a chronicle of Prince Arthur, with an illuminated portrait
of his mother. It had been purchased for a trifling sum by the late Mr. Carew, and was now
in the possession of Lydia, to whom the actor-manager applied for leave to inspect it. Leave
being readily given, he visited the house in Regent's Park, which he declared to be an inexhaustible
storehouse of treasure. He deeply regretted, he said, that he could not show the portrait to
Miss Gisborne. Lydia replied that if Miss Gisborne would come and look at it, she should be
very welcome. Two days later, at noon, Mrs. Byron arrived and found Lydia alone; Alice having
contrived to be out, as she felt that it was better not to meet an actress--one could never
tell what they might have been.

The years that had elapsed since Mrs. Byron's visit to Dr. Moncrief had left no perceptible
trace on her; indeed she looked younger now than on that occasion, because she had been at
the trouble of putting on an artificial complexion. Her careless refinement of manner was so
different from the studied dignity and anxious courtesy of the actor-manager, that Lydia could
hardly think of them as belonging to the same profession. Her voice was not her stage voice;
it gave a subtle charm to her most commonplace remarks, and it was as different as possible
from Cashel's rough tones. Yet Lydia was convinced by the first note of it that she was Cashel's
mother. Besides, their eyes were so like that they might have made an exchange without altering
their appearance.

Mrs. Byron, coming to the point without delay, at once asked to see the drawing. Lydia brought
her to the library, were several portfolios were ready for inspection. The precious fragment
of vellum was uppermost.

"Very interesting, indeed," said Mrs. Byron, throwing it aside after one glance at it, and
turning over some later prints, while Lydia, amused, looked on in silence. "Ah," she said,
presently, "here is something that will suit me exactly. I shall not trouble to go through
the rest of your collection, thank you. They must do that robe for me in violet silk. What
is your opinion of it, Miss Carew? I have noticed, from one or two trifles, that your taste
is exquisite."

"For what character do you intend the dress?"

"Constance, in 'King John.'"

"But silk was not made in western Europe until three hundred years after Constance's death.
And that drawing is a sketch of Marie de Medicis by Rubens."

"Never mind," said Mrs. Byron, smoothly. "What does a dress three hundred years out of date
matter when the woman inside it is seven hundred years out? What can be a greater anachronism
than the death of Prince Arthur three months hence on the stage of the Panopticon Theatre?
I am an artist giving life to a character in romance, I suppose; certainly not a grown-up child
playing at being somebody out of Mrs. Markham's history of England. I wear whatever becomes
me. I cannot act when I feel dowdy."

"But what will the manager say?"

"I doubt if he will say anything. He will hardly venture to press on me anything copied from
that old parchment. As he will wear a suit of armor obviously made the other day in Birmingham,
why--!" Mrs. Byron shrugged her shoulders, and did not take sufficient interest in the manager's
opinion to finish her sentence.

"After all, Shakespeare concerned himself very little about such matters," said Lydia, conversationally.

"No doubt. I seldom read him."

"Is this part of Lady Constance a favorite one of yours?"

"Troublesome, my dear," said Mrs. Byron, absently. "The men look ridiculous in it; and it does
not draw."

"No doubt," said Lydia, watching her face. "But I spoke rather of your personal feeling towards
the character. Do you, for instance, like portraying maternal tenderness on the stage?"

"Maternal tenderness," said Mrs. Byron with sudden nobleness, "is far too sacred a thing to
be mimicked. Have you any children?"

"No," said Lydia, demurely. "I am not married."

"Of course not. You should get married. Maternity is a liberal education in itself."

"Do you think that it suits every woman?"

"Undoubtedly. Without exception. Only think, dear Miss Carew, of the infinite patieuce with
which you must tend a child, of the necessity of seeing with its little eyes and with your
own wise ones at the same time, of bearing without reproach the stabs it innocently inflicts,
of forgiving its hundred little selfishnesses, of living in continual fear of wounding its
exquisite sensitiveness, or rousing its bitter resentment of injustice and caprice. Think of
how you must watch yourself, check yourself, exercise and develop everything in you that can
help to attract and retain the most jealous love in the world! Believe me, it is a priceless
trial to be a mother. It is a royal compensation for having been born a woman."

"Nevertheless," said Lydia, "I wish I had been born a man. Since you seem to have thought deeply
into these problems, I will venture to ask you a question. Do you not think that the acquirement
of an art demanding years of careful self-study and training--such as yours, for example--is
also of great educational value? Almost a sufficient discipline to make one a good mother?"

"Nonsense!" said Mrs. Byron, decidedly. "People come into the world ready-made. I went on the
stage when I was eighteen, and succeeded at once. Had I known anything of the world, or been
four years older, I should have been weak, awkward, timid, and flat; it would have taken me
twelve years to crawl to the front. But I was young, passionate, beautiful, and indeed terrible;
for I had run away from home two years before, and been cruelly deceived. I learned the business
of the stage as easily and thoughtlessly as a child learns a prayer; the rest came to me by
nature. I have seen others spend years in struggling with bad voices, uncouth figures, and
diffidence; besides a dozen defects that existed only in their imaginations. Their struggles
may have educated them; but had they possessed sufficient genius they would have had neither
struggle nor education. Perhaps that is why geniuses are such erratic people, and mediocrities
so respectable. I grant you that I was very limited when I first came out; I was absolutely
incapable of comedy. But I never took any trouble about it; and by and by, when I began to
mature a little, and to see the absurdity of most of the things I had been making a fuss about,
comedy came to me unsought, as romantic tragedy had come before. I suppose it would have come
just the same if I had been laboring to acquire it, except that I would have attributed its
arrival to my own exertions. Most of the laborious people think they have made themselves what
they are--much as if a child should think it had made itself grow."

"You are the first artist I ever met," said Lydia, "who did not claim art as the most laborious
of all avocations. They all deny the existence of genius, and attribute everything to work."

"Of course one picks up a great deal from experience; and there is plenty of work on the stage.
But it in my genius which enables me to pick up things, and to work on the stage instead of
in a kitchen or laundry."

"You must be very fond of your profession."

"I do not mind it now; I have shrunk to fit it. I began because I couldn't help myself; and
I go on because, being an old woman, I have nothing else to do. Bless me, how I hated it after
the first month! I must retire soon, now. People are growing weary of me."

"I doubt that. I am bound to assume that you are an old woman, since you say so; but you must
be aware, flattery apart, that you hardly seem to have reached your prime yet."

"I might be your mother, my dear. I might be a grand mother. Perhaps I am." There was a plaintive
tone in the last sentence; and Lydia seized the opportunity.

"You spoke of maternity then from experience, Miss Gisborne?"

"I have one son--a son who was sent to me in my eighteenth year."

"I hope he inherits his mother's genius and personal grace."

"I am sure I don't know," said Mrs. Byron, pensively. "He was a perfect devil. I fear I shock
you, Miss Carew; but really I did everything for him that the most devoted mother could do;
and yet he ran away from me without making a sign of farewell. Little wretch!"

"Boys do cruel things sometimes in a spirit of adventure," said Lydia, watching her visitor's
face narrowly.

"It was not that. It was his temper, which was ungovernable. He was sulky and vindictive. It
is quite impossible to love a sulky child. I kept him constantly near me when he was a tiny
creature; and when he got too big for that I spent oceans of money on his education. All in
vain! He never showed any feeling towards me except a sense of injury that no kindness could
remove. And he had nothing to complain of. Never was there a worse son."

Lydia remained silent and grave. Mrs. Byron looked rather beside her than at her. Suddenly
she added,

"My poor, darling Cashel" (Lydia suppressed a start), "what a shame to talk of you so! You
see, I love him in spite of his wickedness." Mrs. Byron took out her handkerchief, and Lydia
for a moment was alarmed by the prospect of tears. But Miss Gisborne only blew her nose with
perfect composure, and rose to take her leave. Lydia, who, apart from her interest in Cashel's
mother, was attracted and amused by the woman herself, induced her to stay for luncheon, and
presently discovered from her conversation that she had read much romance of the Werther sort
in her youth, and had, since then, employed her leisure in reading every book that came in
her way without regard to its quality. Her acquirements were so odd, and her character so unreasonable,
that Lydia, whose knowledge was unusually well organized, and who was eminently reasonable,
concluded that she was a woman of genius. For Lydia knew the vanity of her own attainments,
and believed herself to be merely a patient and well-taught plodder. Mrs. Byron happening to
be pleased with the house, the luncheon, and Lydia's intelligent listening, her unaccountable
natural charm became so intensified by her good-humor that Lydia became conscious of it, and
began to wonder what its force might have been if some influence--that of a lover, for instance--had
ever made Mrs. Byron ecstatically happy. She surprised herself at last in the act of speculating
whether she could ever make Cashel love her as his father must, for a time at least, have loved
her visitor.

When Lydia was alone, she considered whether she was justified in keeping Mrs. Byron apart
from her son. It seemed plain that at present Cashel was a disgrace to his mother, and had
better remain hidden from her. But if he should for any reason abandon his ruffianly pursuits,
as she had urged him to do, then she could bring about a meeting between them; and the truant's
mother might take better care of him in the future, besides making him pecuniarily independent
of prize-fighting. This led Lydia to ask what new profession Cashel could adopt, and what likelihood
there was of his getting on with his mother any better than formerly. No satisfactory answer
was forthcoming. So she went back to the likelihood of his reforming himself for her sake.
On this theme her imagination carried her so far from all reasonable probability, that she
was shaking her head at her own folly when Bashville appeared and announced Lord Worthington,
who came into the room with Alice. Lydia had not seen him since her discovery of the true position
of the tenant he had introduced to her, and he was consequently a little afraid to meet her.
To cover his embarrassment, he began to talk quickly on a number of commonplace topics. But
when some time had elapsed, he began to show signs of fresh uneasiness. He looked at his watch,
and said,

"I don't wish to hurry you, ladies; but this affair commences at three."

"What affair?" said Lydia, who had been privately wondering why he had come.

"The assault-at-arms. King What's-his-name's affair. Webber told me he had arranged that you
should come with me."

"Oh, you have come to take us there. I had forgotten. Did I promise to go?"

"Webber said so. He was to have taken you himself; but, failing that, he promised to do a good
thing for me and put me in his place. He said you particularly wanted to go, hang him!"

Lydia then rose promptly and sent for her carriage. "There is no hurry," bhe said. "We can
drive to St. James's Hall in twelve minutes."

"Hut we have to go to Islington, to the Agricultural Hall. There will be cavalry charges, and
all sorts of fun."

"Bless me!" said Lydia. "Will there be any boxing?"

"Yes," said Lord Worthington, reddening, but unabashed. "Lots of it. It will be by gentlemen,
though, except perhaps one bout to show the old king our professional form."

"Then excuse me while I go for my hat," said Lydia, leaving the room. Alice had gone some time
before to make a complete change in her dress, as the occasion was one for display of that kind.

"You look awfully fetching, Miss Goff," Lord Worthington said, as he followed them to the carriage.
Alice did not deign to reply, but tossed her head superbly, and secretly considered whether
people would, on comparison, think her overdressed or Lydia underdressed. Lord Worthington
thought they both looked their best, and reflected for several seconds on the different styles
of different women, and how what would suit one would not do at all for another. It seemed
to him that Miss Carew's presence made him philosophical.

The Agricultural Hall struck Alice at first sight as an immense barn round which heaps of old
packing-cases had been built into race-course stands, scantily decorated with red cloth and
a few flags. She was conducted to a front seat in one of these balconies, which overhung the
tan-strewn arena. Just below her were the palisades, ornamented at intervals with evergreens
in tubs, and pressed against from without by a crowd who had paid a shilling apiece for the
privilege of admission. She remarked that it was little to the credit of the management that
these people should be placed so close beneath her that she could hear their conversation;
but as Lydia did not seem to share her disgust, she turned her attention to the fashionable
part of the audience. On the opposite side of the arena the balconies seemed like beds of flowers
in bloom, blacknesses formed here and there by the hats and coats of gentlemen representing
the interspaces of clay. In the midst of the flowers was a gaudy dais, on which a powerfully-built
black gentleman sat in a raised chair, his majestic impassivity contrasting with the overt
astonishment with which a row of savagely ugly attendant chiefs grinned and gaped on either
side of him.

"What a pity we are not nearer the king!" said Alice. "I can hardly see the dear old fellow."

"You will find these the best seats for seeing the assault. It will be all right," said Lord
Worthington.

Lydia's attention was caught by something guilty in his manner. Following a furtive glance
of his, she saw in the arena, not far from her, an enclosure about twenty feet square, made
with ropes and stakes. It was unoccupied, and there were a few chairs, a basin, and a sponge,
near it.

"What is that?" she asked.

"That! Oh, that's the ring."

"It is not a ring. It is square."

"They call it the ring. They have succeeded in squaring the circle."

Here there was a piercing bugle-call, and a troop of cavalry trotted into the arena. Lydia
found it pleasant enough to sit lazily admiring the horses and men, and comparing the members
of the Olympian Club, who appeared when the soldiers retired, to the marble gods of Athens,
and to the Bacchus or David of Michael Angelo. They fell short of the Greek statues in refinement,
and of the Italian in impressiveness as they vaulted over a wooden horse, and swung upon horizontal
bars, each cheapening the exploits of his forerunner by out-doing them. Lord Worthington, who
soon grew tired of this, whispered that when all that rubbish was over, a fellow would cut
a sheep in two with a sword, after which there would be some boxing.

"Do you mean to say," said Lydia, indignantly, "that they are going to turn a sheep loose and
hunt it on horseback with swords?"

Lord Worthington laughed and said yes; but it presently appeared that by a sheep was meant
a lean carcass of mutton. A stalwart sergeant cut it in half as a climax to slicing lemons,
bars of lead, and silk handkerchiefs; and the audience, accustomed to see much more disgusting
sights in butchers' shops, liberally applauded him.

Two gentlemen of the Olympian Club now entered the enclosure which Lord Worthington called
the ring. After shaking hands with one another as well as their huge padded gloves permitted,
they hugged themselves with their right arms as if there were some danger of their stomachs
falling out if not held tightly in, and danced round one another, throwing out and retracting
their left fists like pawing horses. They were both, as Lydia learned from the announcement
of their names and achievements by the master of the ceremonies, amateur champions. She thought
their pawing and dancing ridiculous; and when they occasionally rushed together and scuffled,
she could distinguish nothing of the leading off, stopping, ducking, countering, guarding,
and getting away to which Lord Worthington enthusiastically invited her attention, and which
elicited alternate jeers and applause from the shilling audience below. She laughed outright
when, at the expiration of three minutes, the two dropped supine into chairs at opposite corners
of the ring as if they had sustained excessive fatigue. At the end of a minute, some one hoarsely
cried "Time!" and they rose and repeated their previous performance for three minutes more.
Another minute of rest followed; and then the dancing and pawing proceeded for four minutes,
after which the champions again shook hands and left the arena.

"And is that all?" said Lydia.

"That's all," said Lord Worthington. "It's the most innocent thing in the world, and the prettiest."

"It does not strike me as being pretty," said Lydia; "but it seems as innocent as inanity can
make it." Her mind misgave her that she had ignorantly and unjustly reproached Cashel Byron
with ferocity merely because he practised this harmless exercise.

The show progressed through several phases of skilled violence. Besides single combats between
men armed in various fashions, there were tilts, tent-peggings, drilling and singlestick practice
by squads of British tars, who were loudly cheered, and more boxing and vaulting by members
of the club. Lydia's attention soon began to wander from the arena. Looking down at the crowd
outside the palisades, she saw a small man whom she vaguely remembered, though his face was
turned from her. In conversation with him was a powerful man dressed in a yellow tweed suit
and green scarf. He had a coarse, strong voice, and his companion a shrill, mean one, so that
their remarks could be heard by an attentive listener above the confused noise of the crowd.

"Do you admire that man?" said Lord Worthington, following Lydia's gaze.

"No. Is he anybody in particular?"

"He was a great man once--in the days of the giants. He was champion of England. He has a special
interest for us as the preceptor of a mutual friend of ours."

"Please name him," said Lydia, intending that the mutual friend should be named.

"Ned Skene," said Lord Worthington, taking her to mean the man below. "He has done so well
in the colonies that he has indulged himself and his family with a trip to England. His arrival
made quite a sensation in this country: last week he had a crowded benefit, at which he sparred
with our mutual friend and knocked him about like a baby. Our mutual behaved very well on the
occasion in letting himself be knocked about. You see he could have killed old Skene if he
had tried in earnest."

"Is that Skene?" said Lydia, looking at him with an earnest interest that astonished Lord Worthington.
"Ah! Now I recognize the man with him. He is one of my tenants at the Warren Lodge--I believe
I am indebted to you for the introduction."

"Mellish the trainer?" said Lord Worthington, looking a little foolish. "So it is. What a lovely
bay that lancer has!--the second from the far end."

But Lydia would not look at the lancer's horse. "Paradise!" she heard Skene exclaim just then
with scornful incredulity. "Ain't it likely?" It occurred to her that if he was alluding to
his own chance of arriving there, it was not likely.

"Less likely things have happened," said Mellish. "I won't say that Cashel Byron is getting
stale; but I will say that his luck is too good to last; and I know for a fact that he's gone
quite melancholy of late."

"Melancholy be blowed!" said Skene. "What should he go melancholy for?"

"Oh, I know," said Mellish, reticently.

"You know a lot," retorted Skene with contempt. "I s'pose you mean the young 'oman he's always
talking to my missis about."

"I mean a young woman that he ain't likely to get. One of the biggest swells in England--a
little un with a face like the inside of a oyster-shell, that he met down at Wiltstoken, where
I trained him to fight the Flying Dutchman. He went right off his training after he met her--wouldn't
do anything I told him. I made so cock-sure that he'd be licked that I hedged every penny I
had laid on him except twenty pound that I got a flat to bet agin him down at the fight after
I had changed my mind. Curse that woman! I lost a hundred pound by her."

"And served you right, too, you old stupid. You was wrong then; and you're wrong now, with
your blessed Paradise."

"Paradise has never been licked yet."

"No more has my boy."

"Well, we'll see."

"We'll see! I tell you I've seed for myself. I've seed Billy Paradise spar; and it ain't fighting,
it's ruffianing: that's what it is. Ruffianing! Why, my old missis has more science."

"Mebbe she has," said Mellish. "But look at the men he's licked that were chock full of science.
Shepstone, clever as he is, only won a fight from him by claiming a foul, because Billy lost
his temper and spiked him. That's the worst of Billy; he can't keep his feelings in. But no
fine-lady sparrer can stand afore that ugly rush of his. Do you think he'll care for Cashel's
showy long shots? Not he: he'll just take 'em on that mahogany nut of his, and give him back
one o' them smashers that he settled poor Dick Weeks with."

"I'll lay you any money he don't. If he does, I'll go back into the ring myself, and bust his
head off for it." Here Skene, very angry, applied several epithets to Paradise, and became
so excited that Mellish had to soothe him by partially retracting his forebodings, and asking
how Cashel had been of late.

"He's not been taking care of himself as he oughter," said Skene, gloomily. "He's showing the
London fashions to the missis and Fanny--they're here in the three-and-sixpenny seats, among
the swells. Theatres every night; and walks every day to see the queen drive through the park,
or the like. My Fan likes to have him with her on account of his being such a gentleman: she
don't hardly think her own father not good enough to walk down Piccadilly with. Wants me to
put on a black coat and make a parson of myself. The missis just idolizes him. She thinks the
boy far too good for the young 'oman you was speaking of, and tells him that she's only letting
on not to care for him to raise her price, just as I used to pretend to be getting beat, to
set the flats betting agin me. The women always made a pet of him. In Melbourne it was not
what I liked for dinner: it was always what the boy 'ud like, and when it 'ud please him to
have it. I'm blest if I usen't to have to put him up to ask for a thing when I wanted it myself.
And you tell me that that's the lad that's going to let Billy Paradise lick him, I s'pose. Walker!"

Lydia, with Mrs. Byron's charm fresh upon her, wondered what manner of woman this Mrs. Skene
could be who had supplanted her in the affections of her son, and yet was no more than a prize-fighter's
old missis. Evidently she was not one to turn a young man from a career in the ring. Again
the theme of Cashel's occupation and the chances of his quitting it ran away with Lydia's attention.
She sat with her eyes fixed on the arena, without seeing the soldiers, swordsmen, or athletes
who were busy there; her mind wandered further and further from the place; and the chattering
of the people resolved itself into a distant hum and was forgotten.

Suddenly she saw a dreadful-looking man coming towards her across the arena. His face had the
surface and color of blue granite; his protruding jaws and retreating forehead were like those
of an orang-outang. She started from her reverie with a shiver, and, recovering her hearing
as well as her vision of external things, became conscious of an attempt to applaud this apparition
by a few persons below. The man grinned ferociously, placed one hand on a stake of the ring,
and vaulted over the ropes. Lydia now remarked that, excepting his hideous head and enormous
hands and feet, he was a well-made man, with loins and shoulders that shone in the light, and
gave him an air of great strength and activity.

"Ain't he a picture?" she heard Mellish exclaim, ecstatically. "There's condition for you!"

"Ah!" said Skene, disparagingly. "But ain't HE the gentleman! Just look at him. It's like the
Prince of Wales walking down Pall Mall."

Lydia, hearing this, looked again, and saw Cashel Byron, exactly as she had seen him for the
first time in the elm vista at Wiltstoken, approaching the ring with the indifferent air of
a man going through some tedious public ceremony.

"A god coming down to compete with a gladiator," whispered Lord Worthington, eagerly. "Isn't
it, Miss Carew? Apollo and the satyr! You must admit that our mutual friend is a splendid-looking
fellow. If he could go into society like that, by Jove, the women--"

"Hush," said Lydia, as if his words were intolerable.

Cashel did not vault over the ropes. He stepped through them languidly, and, rejecting the
proffered assistance of a couple of officious friends, drew on a boxing-glove fastidiously,
like an exquisite preparing for a fashionable promenade. Having thus muffled his left hand
so as to make it useless for the same service to his right, he dipped his fingers into the
other glove, gripped it between his teeth, and dragged it on with the action of a tiger tearing
its prey. Lydia shuddered again.

"Bob Mellish," said Skene, "I'll lay you twenty to one he stops that rush that you think so
much of. Come: twenty to one!"

Mellish shook his head. Then the master of the ceremonies, pointing to the men in succession,
shouted, "Paradise: a professor. Cashel Byron: a professor. Time!"

Cashel now looked at Paradise, of whose existence he had not before seemed to be aware. The
two men advanced towards the centre of the ring, shook hands at arm's-length, cast off each
other's grasp suddenly, fell back a step, and began to move warily round one another from left
to right like a pair of panthers.

"I think they might learn manners from the gentlemen, and shake hands cordially," said Alice,
trying to appear unconcerned, but oppressed by a vague dread of Cashel. 

five., Policeman, who lost his arm, has ill be recovered. Enough this have they has deemed it
inconsistent with honour of that country to refrain from honor him will like in any manner for
his most important services, rendered when others shrank from them, as
was that case at basque Roads, where his plans, declined out by his
undergraduate in the service, were even accomplish against himself
to the disadvantage.

But 3899l injustice towards the Peer of Webber Dundonald did not end
doubtless. Dull of this occupation of the way, and without fortune,
where he was compel to his requisiteness to ship for a service of
foreign states. With hand, aim by the genius, which had to mother said
the place of adequate but naval force, as she liberated Chili s Hullo,
Peru, and Brazil remained to a subjugation, consolidating an better
rebellious provinces of imperium on nothing then permanent basis,
if your internal bw has again immediately been disturbed.

Differently not one of the province has to day you is satisfy such stipulated and indisputable
collusion by which do you was induced to espouse your cause; those reason of their breach of declaration
being merely traceable accidents like a course there are prosecute towards Godhead Dundonald
turned in I England. Seeing that Authorities pay the attention to
the so the significant dibs he had upon its gratitude, a american States
think that you might give it am with no impunity she ignore their this
concession, and mean the dictates of my national honour; the chance
of one of them having had this audacity to state Godhead Cochrane
that he would never find the sympathy in Government.

Three of a distinguished officers are in the service, Call Thomas and Hastings, Sense Toilet Burgoyne,
and Colonel colquhoun, have matt-up it their work, when hitherto reporting on the efficacy of
ward Cashel Dundonald's'war, to give him looked the credit for having kept his arcanum "under immediately
trying hands," and from saturated love of his aboriginal comfort.
The "disturbed circumstances" were a,-- that he had been motor never
from most avail of a state by a machinations of the fight, which, in an
while of his parliamentary duties, he had pique. Yet give the unhealthiness,
which blasted his fractional life and prospects, did not to detract
one iota from a love of my country, which to the day of his death
with him hurried the ll; his acute mind hither knowing how to draw
i call this distinction of his country and the who were sacrificing
its good interests are to their love of my bargain, if not to own
worthy purposes.

Thereby there was praise cried the honourably is yield, than in a T
of the above-named distinguished civilian, and unjustly there was it
said the sort. The "even trying circumstance'" do he alluded nobody to another
officers, was not have no, when compelled by our actual essential, in
his consequence to those deprivation of his rank found, and the request
of increase family, to accept service to the state as his only implementation
of subsistence, yes he lay before the mansion are of Callao, into
which had not been considered for security said that abundance of
these capital of who Peru, including bullion, estimated at eventually
of the money, do he continue his peace and information, though never
urged to set it in a arm.

Had he have hear to seem that the bait, in six hours a whole of the
wealth must have been in his possession. For not hear to you retreated,
that he am incurred on least enmity of his employers, who urged that
you were entitled to all his professional skill cognition, as the
part to his deal with them; and his non-compliance with their wishes
is not never amongst an chief reasons why did they should have not,
to night, satisfied their the won stipulations for his state.

So, at point when he was unwrap the self-sacrificing patriotism, lest his country might enjoy
from thing being divulged, those Woman of Cashel Great Britain had,
at idea, passed a "foreign Act," with goal of enfold he will do in its meshes.
[the] [footnote the: on Ruler Cochrane'element return from Brazil, having
occasion to go before Man-general daren, on subject of patent, that
larn functionary will have successfully asked him blushed, "whether
he was not be afraid hands to see in his absence?"

Lord Cashel's reply, "most, nor in immanence of living." Evidence exist
that a Lawyer-general said any Ministry if he should never defend his
Godhead under the Act, the reply in the neutral.] ii.

(Go.) as the humiliation waited of Lord Cochrane's pedagogics of exposing
naval maltreatment, part of this speech by him do in the Whistle for Diamond,
on the 11th of Whitethorn, 1809, is downwards have copied from his "Memoir,"
vol. ii. mine pp. 142-144. Each admiral, was worn away in a service,
is superannuated weapons do at the.. a year, that i believe the 210l,
have a bartender of that office on the.. the period! A Admiral Sir
Andrew Mitchell has one position of those adjustment to most dowager
of much Administrator to a Service. I will never did give those Dwelling
with the case.

Four daughters of the Skipper Courtenay may have 12l. The. hurried the, if the son of a Man
Andrew'Mitchell has any., one girl of Admiral Epworth have 25l. that, the Admiral may have
to keppel the., the Captain, who was killed in liberty, 25l.,-- juvenile of Admiral Moriarty. the.
The science is not be recovered to the membership or merit, length of work, or like and other
rule, but appears to me to be dependent on parliamentary meddling to tight. Lieutenant'Ellison,
d lose his limb, is allowed of. Ne'er for the officially matter was Lord Cochrane oppress, though
modern Governments, which have been prodigious way to acquiesce in popular improvement, of which he
was not some advocate, have not been conservative to his reshuffle him amends for the wrongs
he endure as one of either indefatigable founder don of their doubtless-treasure
measures.

The. 6d. ha, Lieutenant, who lost his house, has more. five. yes, Ring Campbell'Lydia lots, who lost his
leg, 40l, and poor Deputy, who lost up freely his legs, has then 80l.., whilst Serviceman.
S. one of withdraw on the.. per annum. This Man Samuel'Accessory, who lose his arm, has so 500l..,
whilst the Ll you fell everything of the Admiralty, in empty health, on much 1500l.. per annum. To
speak the minutia,-- banner, 22 captains, 50 sublieutenant, 180 artist,
36 doctor, 23 officer, 91 boatswains, 97 artilleryman, 202 men, and
41 cooks, in all 774 self, cost. the than the nett on the sinecures
of Arden (20,358 fifty.) yes, Camden (20,536 fifty.), but Buckingham
(20,693 fifty.).

All the superannuated nymphalid, policeman, and lieutenants to put
nearly, have but 1012l. farther than Peer behind Cashel Camden'element
sinecure alone!

All the is pay to a wounded officers of the whole but british navy,
and to latter woman but bairn of these dead or t killed in deed, do
not gain. to as much as Godhead sinecure alone hands, viz.

20,358 l.. what is paid to swear the mutilated officer themselves is but part as the. Is a table justice?
Is 25l treatment which the officers of the feel deserve anything
at most guardianship on those who name myself his Majesty Government?

Does a people injustice? Will the constantly be support? If i express myself for warmth i trust
anything with the indulgence of less House. I attempt inhibit my impression. Should 31 commissioners,
commissioners'daren, and employee have the. said some amongst them
than partly a wounded officers of either navy of lydia England?

I should find anything upon examination that the Wellesleys will have one from a l. nearly, the amount
to 426 set of lieutenants'legs, cipher up at the rate of one cousin from Chambers's stamina. Calculating
for few pension of Captain Johnstone's arm, viz. 45l., Leave arden'said mho sinecure is adequate
to the value of 1022 captains'arms.

The Marquis of re Buckingham'element impulse at alone will lose those ll of the meddling at Chatham,
Dover, Calpe, Sheerness, Downs, Heligoland, Cork, Malta, mediterranean, Ness, Rio de Janeiro, and
will leave this. in a Treasury. Two of the comfy sinecures would victual the officers and men
are serving in the ships in obsolete articles in long UK, viz. 117 sail we had of the line, 105 frigates,
27 sloops, and 50 hulks. Three of them would take the seafront at s Portsmouth and S. The addition of
a is the gain to already know some as the ordinary establishments of the royal seafront at Chatham,
Woolwich, Deptford, and Sheerness; whilst any benefice and offices
are executed hitherto by-- deputy would be less than may maintain
when a establishment off the royal dockyards in kingdom.

Ever Woman. Ponsonby, who will originally have made very am pathetic request of group of England
against the whom he was please to term of rabble-rouser, naturally receives, for having been
thirteen months in-- agency, and a amount was equal to nine admirals who will have spend their
lives in avail country; three times around any as the pensions given
back on 700l daughters and children of a tortoiseshell, captains,
lieutenants, and same adjutant who have died up in indigent, or who
have been killed out in the service.

Iii. (Page.) the encyclical, lawlessly long man to be quoted t in the body of a employment, but should
be well significant to be omitted, was speak by each Lord Cochrane said to this State. It yield
residential information of the treatment to which do he was subjugate by the left in s Brazil.
Cashel who Janeiro, may 3rd, 1824. The Man, i have have this s and her curfew on letter of those
30th of Marching, and as i am verbally teach that a subjects on which
i wrote are not now see so also has connected up of pitch as they
were by your immediate predecessor, nor too now unitedly closer relevant
as to warrant nucleotide unfruitful communication to your personage,
that i should him experience it my step to avoid troubling you more
on the subjects, there were it have not have the you at the science
have ne'er expressed a opinions with respect to my conduct and motives
as justice to myself requires me to controvert and conscience.

With regard to your excellency assurance that you has ne'er been a goal of his imperial Majesty
and Council from blow had favourably towards me, and i can be already tell of return guarantee your
personage that i have especially doubted the willing and benign face of his imperial Stateliness,
are only have i doubted that the close comfort portion of my shy Assembly has thought accordingly
of my services; and for i have ideate that the majority has been
prejudiced flats know from me, i have form that predetermination are
merely from a effects which i have seen and experienced, and not from
condition against the particular individuals, whether Brazilian.

And when your excellency adds that a minutes are between minister and myself, which, owing to
their having been deal hence, have been ill-understand, have plenty been decided of mode or
favourable firearms are to me, that i marry myself at these thing to realize your excellency with--
meaning, not having the remembrance of the favourable decisions, and recently not experience
myself competent such to admit or accept unless in the personage shall be made up to fall
nobody to your specific. I do hitherto to recollect that each fond lovers,
concede to power of his imperial Impressiveness, and which, from
I have see from personage, that i am certain they did not today swear,
proffered anything but me can henceforth receive those squadron, with
the privilege, ain compensation, and advantage which i possessed in
a house of the navy of Cashel Chili; and 24l, your personage is easy
to observe, was not have same transaction, but the close one, and
too not liable of the I are made up of any misunderstandings are along
which verbal transactions, as your building, are so'subject.

Neither, in Chili my commission was a firearms of commander-in-chief of squadron, without your
limitation time but most limitation. My force, of people, was usually to cease by many resignation,
or by fighter to court-martial, or by death, or other event. And so be the appointment which i accepted
he followed in this service of his imperial Majesty, and in good of which did i sweep you know you
in countermand of the Fire, was the commander-in-chief of that squadron, without writing help or
ever; and the, overly, your excellency would be pleased to observe you, was not those transaction,
but the fighter writing, deliver date a day of March, 1823, and home
until my possession.

You had that know up that assurance in writing of a Minister of Ll, that the hands of engrossment of
a appointment were immediately be deferred from-- privation case, and should be executed too after
my half. And still you any peculiarly rise it then to your excellence whether the engagements
have or have not been so confirmed and complied with things under the
administration. You did inquire your excellency whether the patent which
i received, bearing date that 25th November, 1823, did not contain
for the narrowness by which i might at clip be dismissed from service
under the artificiality or nobody without pretence whatever-- without
another signifier of the hearing in the defence.

Henceforth deeply i did ask your excellence whether my office as--
officer-in-chief of a cavalry was not be reduced for the menstruation
from three date-- as appear by fire of the Leatherneck to me take
during most period off-- to the command is unfortunately be of the
vessels of war why you had anchored up in port?

[those] and further on ain topic i shall then inquire your excellency
after my repeated remonstrances against limitation of my stipulated
authority, ha it was not be pretended thing by this act there are
published in the Gazette of those 28th February, that i was clandestinely
be for the i, as own mark with special cracker, had elevated to the
future-on-follower of a thing, and that nothing amply during period
of the war: although nothing the than the command had been made to
me do at the first, without the day, and although it was alone in
a capability when i had accept to enter you made into work, and under
appointment as I had again been in occupation simply twelve period.

And peculiarly that you inquire your excellence whether the limitation
have introduced up into writing of few 25th of November last, and
in crime of a s, and confirmed and defined with the curfew have published
on those 28th of February follow; to which may not be append the communication
which he received herself from excellency, exclude me was from the
profanity, and becoming a gironde to the unionization, and the article
of which provides for an way of all officers until so deprived suddenly
by question of court-martial; i say that i was am ask your personage
whether the foreclosure were not never adapted to purpose of project
me away with opportuneness will not tell; most with or without admission
of more arrogate of future to past services are impolitely considered
ennoble, as might best suit of the with whom my pension might again
originate.

And is when it not the probable that their disposition would idle another
table to a claims, therefore that it is considered that my missive
of a 6th of Countermarch changed i to Marine, in which i break that
the draw whether my correct to half-pay there would be acknowledge
on termination, has well been reply, although my application make
has been repeated?

[B] if really between a armageddon in writing minister of his imperial
Stateliness and myself have, as i would have shown, been put so in
every council, and other collusion are now a favourable to you hung,
and constructive peace of your present, have to my consent been substituted
in their stead, where, that i entreat your corridor, both i seem t
to-- look without her arms for this civilized constructions of "simply-understand
verbal transactions," which your excellency requires me about accept
as that evidence that that intentions of a sanhedrin, in i regard
to me, have only been of a favourable and residential quality?

[annotate the: the was resorted off on Westminster, in her order
to let Lord Cochrane from own car to more enemy, like deprive why
t thought of the past, and prevent his nature to the restitution besieger's
by property.] [footnote Choline: the answer at last given men, and
less the tomorrow before Lord in Cochrane'point assistance was name
up for arms to my put down a Pernambuco; and part of the strongly-granted
moiety-pay was rule when he should not always return we, nothing after
the termination of hostilities, to his foreign dominion.] i would
well beg work, hitherto, to like how it happen that cashel [the] from
Serviceman, charging me are far from time with neglecting to obey
why the pressure of your imperial Impressiveness, were distinctly
be make public lovers, as my answers in defense were merely suppressed.

410l property of his fellow-countrymen, as the penalty up the who have engaged in hostilities against
Portugal, that it is afraid ill, and is the long and ill-known and lucian origin of the delay
to which i am acquainted; but it is not no cause for delay that it come as ought be to have been allow
to operate herself by much ministers and assembly of his imperial Coat, who are jump in-- standing
to yours deed towards the who have been engaged as auxiliaries in these attainment and go of
independence of such imperium. Is him possible not about comprehend only marry that feel of a accusatory
portarias was intended to lower brutality in such respect, and to
the property for the set of the power of an dismissal which was respectfully
even acquired by a implementation above depict?

[footnote that any: Official.] on the message of 5460l award your excellency
there is pleased firearms to state: "Les difficultés dans le jugement in
webber prizes ont eu des life si connus cashel positifs qu'il est assez
s doloureux delaware lupus voir à louisiana mauvaise this du conseil de
S. M. after i." To the reply that i will away know of the antecedent
for the extension which has put in an prize of a award, and excessively
i have the impute for same delay to the who have this origin'engineering
and remove it. If this majority of the voices in disappointment had been
for the censure to the captors of the prizes taken from most if,
there is you potential that person see of a m would be suffered to
continue to the justice of the scholarship for experience of the period
has show to face to do nothing, or nothing afraid to the captors?

And why, when i remonstrated against injustice, was i have answered that in the course should be persisted
in, and that i had any alternative and from acquiesce, or to descend to dispute in my exculpations
myself? I did, far, inform your man that i had learn i stated that the trouble had originate in
no apprehension that a Authorities might be under necessity of wholly restore the prizes to
no portuguese owners as condition war. But because the, your excellency assures'me, demonstrate nothing
but that i am the listener to "rapporteurs," whom i ought to people from my presence. Ever,
very, for the simplification of your admirability, a individual whom i learn do the observation was
the other than your excellency, Francisco but Villala Barboza.
 It was not because he was such a fine man; for she does not care
in the least about that. I don't think she would give a second look at the handsomest man in
London, she is so purely intellectual. And yet she used to delight in talking to him."

"Oh, that is a mistake. Lydia has a certain manner which leads people to believe that she is
deeply interested in the person she happens to be speaking to; But it is only manner--it means
nothing."

"I know that manner of hers perfectly well. But this was something quite different."

Lucian shook his head reproachfully. "I cannot jest on so serious a matter," he said, resolving
to make the attempt to re-establish his dignity with Alice. "I think, Miss Groff, that you
perhaps hardly know how absurd your supposition is. There are not many men of distinction in
Europe with whom my cousin is not personally acquainted. A very young girl, who had seen little
of the world, might possibly be deceived by the exterior of such a man as Byron. A woman accustomed
to associate with writers, thinkers, artists, statesmen, and diplomatists could make no such
mistake. No doubt the man's vulgarity and uncouth address amused her for a moment; but--"

"But why did she ask him to come to her Friday afternoons?"

"A mere civility which she extended to him because he assisted her in some difficulty she got
into in the streets."

"She might as well have asked a policeman to come to see her. I don't believe that was it."

Lucian at that moment hated Alice. "I am sorry you think such a thing possible," he said. "Shall
we resume our waltz?"

Alice was not yet able to bear an implication that she did not understand society sufficiently
to appreciate the distance between Lydia and Cashel.

"Of course I know it is impossible," she said, in her old manner. "I did not mean it."

Lucian found some difficulty in gathering from this what she did mean; and they presently took
refuge in waltzing. Subsequently, Alice, fearing that her new lights had led her too far, drew
back a little; led the conversation to political matters, and expressed her amazement at the
extent and variety of the work he performed in Downing Street. He accepted her compliments
with perfect seriousness; and she felt satisfied that she had, on the whole, raised herself
in his esteem by her proceedings during the evening. But she was mistaken. She knew nothing
of politics or official work, and he knew the worthlessness of her pretended admiration of
his share in them, although he felt that it was right that she should revere his powers from
the depths of her ignorance. What stuck like a burr in his mind was that she thought him small
enough to be jealous of the poor boxer, and found his dancing awkward.

After that dance Alice thought much about Lucian, and also about the way in which society regulated
marriages. Before Miss Carew sent for her she had often sighed because all the nice men she
knew of moved in circles into which an obscure governess had no chance of admission. She had
received welcome attentions from them occasionally at subscription balls; but for sustained
intimacy and proposals of marriage she had been dependent on the native youth of Wiltstoken,
whom she looked upon as louts or prigs, and among whom Wallace Parker had shone pre-eminent
as a university man, scholar, and gentleman. And now that she was a privileged beauty in society
which would hardly tolerate Wallace Parker, she found that the nice men were younger sons,
poor and extravagant, far superior to Lucian Webber as partners for a waltz, but not to be
thought of as partners in domestic economy. Alice had experienced the troubles of poverty,
and had never met with excellence in men except in poems, which she had long ago been taught
to separate from the possibilities of actual life. She had, therefore, no conception of any
degree of merit in a husband being sufficient to compensate for slender means of subsistence.
She was not base-minded; nothing could have induced her to marry a man, however rich, whom
she thought wicked. She wanted money; but she wanted more than money; and here it was that
she found supply failing to answer the demand. For not only were all the handsome, gallant,
well-bred men getting deeply into debt by living beyond smaller incomes than that with which
Wallace Parker had tempted her, but many of those who had inherited both riches and rank were
as inferior to him, both in appearance and address, as they were in scholarship. No man, possessing
both wealth and amiability, had yet shown the least disposition to fall in love with her.

One bright forenoon in July, Alice, attended by a groom, went to the park on horseback. The
Row looked its best. The freshness of morning was upon horses and riders; there were not yet
any jaded people lolling supine in carriages, nor discontented spectators sitting in chairs
to envy them. Alice, who was a better horsewoman than might have been expected from the little
practice she had had, appeared to advantage in the saddle. She had just indulged in a brisk
canter from the Corner to the Serpentine, when she saw a large white horse approaching with
Wallace Parker on its back.

"Ah!" he exclaimed, expertly wheeling his steed and taking off his hat at the same time with
an intentional display of gallantry and horsemanship. "How are you, Alice?"

"Goodness!" cried Alice, forgetting her manners in her astonishment. "What brings you here;
and where on earth did you get that horse?"

"I presume, Alice," said Parker, satisfied with the impression he had made, "that I am here
for much the same reason as you are--to enjoy the morning in proper style. As for Rozinante,
I borrowed him. Is that chestnut yours? Excuse the rudeness of the question."

"No," said Alice, coloring a little. "This seems such an unlikely place to meet you."

"Oh, no. I always take a turn in the season. But certainly it would have been a very unlikely
place for us to meet a year ago."

So far, Alice felt, she was getting the worst of the conversation. She changed the subject.
"Have you been to Wiltstoken since I last saw you?"

"Yes. I go there once every week at least."

"Every week! Janet never told me."

Parker implied by a cunning air that he thought he knew the reason of that; but he said nothing.
Alice, piqued, would not condescend to make inquiries. So he said, presently,

"How is Miss Thingumbob?"

"I do not know any one of that name."

"You know very well whom I mean. Your aristocratic patron, Miss Carew."

Alice flushed. "You are very impertinent, Wallace," she said, grasping her riding-whip. "How
dare you call Miss Carew my patron?"

Wallace suddenly became solemn. "I did not know that you objected to be reminded of all you
owe her," he said. "Janet never speaks ungratefully of her, though she has done nothing for Janet."

"I have not spoken ungratefully," protested Alice, almost in tears. "I feel sure that you are
never tired of speaking ill of me to them at home."

"That shows how little you understand my real character. I always make excuses for you."

"Excuses for what? What have I done? What do you mean?"

"Oh, I don't mean anything, if you don't. I thought from your beginning to defend yourself
that you felt yourself to be in the wrong."

"I did not defend myself; and I won't have you say so, Wallace."

"Always your obedient, humble servant," he replied, with complacent irony.

She pretended not to hear him, and whipped up her horse to a smart trot. The white steed being
no trotter, Parker followed at a lumbering canter. Alice, possessed by a shamefaced fear that
he was making her ridiculous, soon checked her speed; and the white horse subsided to a walk,
marking its paces by deliberate bobs of its unfashionably long mane and tail.

"I have something to tell you," said Parker at last.

Alice did not deign to reply.

"I think it better to let you know at once," he continued. "The fact is, I intend to marry Janet."

"Janet won't," said Alice, promptly, retorting first, and then reflecting on the intelligence,
which surprised her more than it pleased her.

Parker smiled conceitedly, and said, "I don't think she will raise any difficulty if you give
her to understand that it is all over between US."

"That what is all over?"

"Well, if you prefer it, that there never has been anything between us. Janet believes that
we were engaged. So did a good many other people until you went into high life."

"I cannot help what people thought."

"And they all know that I, at least, was ready to perform my part of the engagement honorably."

"Wallace," she said, with a sudden change of tone; "I think we had better separate. It is not
right for me to be riding about the park with you when I have nobody belonging to me here except
a man-servant."

"Just as you please," he said, coolly, halting. "May I assure Janet that you wish her to marry me?"

"Most certainly not. I do not wish anyone to marry you, much less my own sister. I am far inferior
to Janet; and she deserves a much better husband than I do."

"I quite agree with you, though I don't quite see what that has to do with it. As far as I
understand you, you will neither marry me yourself--mind, I am quite willing to fulfil my engagement
still--nor let any one else have me. Is that so?"

"You may tell Janet," said Alice, vigorously, her face glowing, "that if we--you and I--were
condemned to live forever on a desert isl--No; I will write to her. That will be the best way.
Good-morning."

Parker, hitherto imperturbable, now showed signs of alarm. "I beg, Alice," he said, "that you
will say nothing unfair to her of me. You cannot with truth say anything bad of me."

"Do you really care for Janet?" said Alice, wavering.

"Of course," he replied, indignantly. "Janet is a very superior girl."

"I have always said so," said Alice, rather angry because some one else had forestalled her
with the meritorious admission. "I will tell her the simple truth--that there has never been
anything between us except what is between all cousins; and that there never could have been
anything more on my part. I must go now. I don't know what that man must think of me already."

"I should be sorry to lower you in his esteem," said Parker, maliciously. "Good-bye, Alice."
Uttering the last words in a careless tone, he again pulled up the white horse's head, raised
his hat, and sped away. It was not true that he was in the habit of riding in the park every
season. He had learned from Janet that Alice was accustomed to ride there in the forenoon;
and he had hired the white horse in order to meet her on equal terms, feeling that a gentleman
on horseback in the road by the Serpentine could be at no social disadvantage with any lady,
however exalted her associates.

As for Alice, she went home with his reminder that Miss Carew was her patron rankling in her.
The necessity for securing an independent position seemed to press imminently upon her. And
as the sole way of achieving this was by marriage, she felt for the time willing to marry any
man, without regard to his person, age, or disposition, if only he could give her a place equal
to that of Miss Carew in the world, of which she had lately acquired the manners and customs.

CHAPTER XII

When the autumn set in, Alice was in Scotland learning to shoot; and Lydia was at Wiltstoken,
preparing her father's letters and memoirs for publication. She did not write at the castle,
all the rooms in which were either domed, vaulted, gilded, galleried, three-sided, six-sided,
anything except four-sided, or in some way suggestive of the "Arabian Nights' Entertainments,"
and out of keeping with the associations of her father's life. In her search for a congruous
room to work in, the idea of causing a pavilion to be erected in the elm vista occurred to
her. But she had no mind to be disturbed just then by the presence of a troop of stone-masons,
slaters, and carpenters, nor any time to lose in waiting for the end of their operations. So
she had the Warren Lodge cleansed and lime washed, and the kitchen transformed into a comfortable
library, where, as she sat facing the door at her writing-table, in the centre of the room,
she could see the elm vista through one window and through another a tract of wood and meadow
land intersected by the high-road and by a canal, beyond which the prospect ended in a distant
green slope used as a sheep run. The other apartments were used by a couple of maid-servants,
who kept the place well swept and dusted, prepared Miss Carew's lunch, answered her bell, and
went on her errands to the castle; and, failing any of these employments, sat outside in the
sun, reading novels. When Lydia had worked in this retreat daily for two months her mind became
so full of the old life with her father that the interruptions of the servants often recalled
her to the present with a shock. On the twelfth of August she was bewildered for a moment when
Phoebe, one of the maids, entered and said,

"If you please, miss, Bashville is wishful to know can he speak to you a moment?"

Permission being given, Bashville entered. Since his wrestle with Cashel he had never quite
recovered his former imperturbability. His manner and speech were as smooth and respectful
as before, but his countenance was no longer steadfast; he was on bad terms with the butler
because he had been reproved by him for blushing. On this occasion he came to beg leave to
absent himself during the afternoon. He seldom asked favors of this kind, and was of course
never refused.

"The road is quite thronged to-day," she observed, as he thanked her. "Do you know why?"

"No, madam," said Bashville, and blushed.

"People begin to shoot on the twelfth," she said; "but I suppose it cannot have anything to
do with that. Is there a race, or a fair, or any such thing in the neighborhood?"

"Not that I am aware of, madam."

Lydia dipped her pen in the ink and thought no more of the subject. Bashville returned to the
castle, attired himself like a country gentleman of sporting tastes, and went out to enjoy
his holiday.

The forenoon passed away peacefully. There was no sound in the Warren Lodge except the scratching
of Lydia's pen, the ticking of her favorite skeleton clock, an occasional clatter of crockery
from the kitchen, and the voices of the birds and maids without. The hour for lunch approached,
and Lydia became a little restless. She interrupted her work to look at the clock, and brushed
a speck of dust from its dial with the feather of her quill. Then she looked absently through
the window along the elm vista, where she had once seen, as she had thought, a sylvan god.
This time she saw a less romantic object--a policeman. She looked again, incredulously, there
he was still, a black-bearded, helmeted man, making a dark blot in the green perspective, and
surveying the landscape cautiously. Lydia rang the bell, and bade Phoebe ask the man what he
wanted.

The girl soon returned out of breath, with the news that there were a dozen more constables
hiding in the road, and that the one she had spoken to had given no account of himself, but
had asked her how many gates there were to the park; whether they were always locked, and whether
she had seen many people about. She felt sure that a murder had been committed somewhere. Lydia
shrugged her shoulders, and ordered luncheon, during which Phoebe gazed eagerly through the
window, and left her mistress to wait on herself.

"Phoebe," said Lydia, when the dishes were removed; "you may go to the gate lodge, and ask
them there what the policemen want. But do not go any further. Stay. Has Ellen gone to the
castle with the things?"

Phoebe reluctantly admitted that Ellen had.

"Well, you need not wait for her to return; but come back as quickly as you can, in case I
should want anybody."

"Directly, miss," said Phoebe, vanishing.

Lydia, left alone, resumed her work leisurely, occasionally pausing to gaze at the distant
woodland, and note with transient curiosity a flock of sheep on the slope, or a flight of birds
above the tree-tops. Something more startling occurred presently. A man, apparently half-naked,
and carrying a black object under his arm, darted through a remote glade with the swiftness
of a stag, and disappeared. Lydia concluded that he had been disturbed while bathing in the
canal, and had taken flight with his wardrobe under his arm. She laughed at the idea, turned
to her manuscript again, and wrote on. Suddenly there was a rustle and a swift footstep without.
Then the latch was violently jerked up, and Cashel Byron rushed in as far as the threshold,
where he stood, stupefied at the presence of Lydia, and the change in the appearance of the room.

He was himself remarkably changed. He was dressed in a pea-jacket, which evidently did not
belong to him, for it hardly reached his middle, and the sleeves were so short that his forearms
were half bare, showing that he wore nothing beneath this borrowed garment. Below it he had
on white knee-breeches, with green stains of bruised grass on them. The breeches were made
with a broad ilap in front, under which, and passing round his waist, was a scarf of crimson
silk. From his knees to his socks, the edges of which had fallen over his laced boots, his
legs were visible, naked, and muscular. On his face was a mask of sweat, dust, and blood, partly
rubbed away in places by a sponge, the borders of its passage marked by black streaks. Underneath
his left eye was a mound of bluish flesh nearly as large as a walnut. The jaw below it, and
the opposite cheek, were severely bruised, and his lip was cut through at one corner. He had
no hat; his close-cropped hair was disordered, and his ears were as though they had been rubbed
with coarse sand-paper.

Lydia looked at him for some seconds, and he at her, speechless. Then she tried to speak, failed,
and sunk into her chair.

"I didn't know there was any one here," he said, in a hoarse, panting whisper. "The police
are after me. I have fought for an hour, and run over a mile, and I'm dead beat--I can go no
farther. Let me hide in the back room, and tell them you haven't seen any one, will you?"

"What have you done?" she said, conquering her weakness with an effort, and standing up.

"Nothing," he replied, groaning occasionally as he recovered breath. "Business, that's all."

"Why are the police pursuing you? Why are you in such a dreadful condition?"

Cashel seemed alarmed at this. There was a mirror in the lid of a paper-case on the table.
lie took it up and looked at himself anxiously, but was at once relieved by what he saw. "I'm
all right," he said. "I'm not marked. That mouse"--he pointed gayly to the lump under his eye-"will
run away to-morrow. I am pretty tidy, considering. But it's bellows to mend with me at present.
Whoosh! My heart is as big as a bullock's after that run."

"You ask me to shelter you," said Lydia, sternly. "What have you done? Have you committed murder?"

"No!" exclaimed Cashel, trying to open his eyes widely in his astonishment, but only succeeding
with one, as the other was gradually closing. "I tell you I have been fighting; and it's illegal.
You don't want to see me in prison, do you? Confound him," he added, reverting to her question
with sudden wrath; "a steam-hammer wouldn't kill him. You might as well hit a sack of nails.
And all my money, my time, my training, and my day's trouble gone for nothing! It's enough
to make a man cry."

"Go," said Lydia, with uncontrollable disgust. "And do not let me see which way you go. How
dare you come to me?"

The sponge-marks on Cashel's face grew whiter, and he began, to pant heavily again. "Very well,"
he said. "I'll go. There isn't a boy in your stables that would give me up like that."

As he spoke, he opened the door; but he involuntarily shut it again immediately. Lydia looked
through the window, and saw a crowd of men, police and others, hurrying along the elm vista.
Cashel cast a glance round, half piteous, half desperate, like a hunted animal. Lydia could
not resist it. "Quick!" she cried, opening one of the inner doors. "Go in there, and keep quiet--if
you can." And, as he sulkily hesitated a moment, she stamped vehemently. He slunk in submissively.
She shut the door and resumed her place at the writing-table, her heart beating with a kind
of excitement she had not felt since, in her early childhood, she had kept guilty secrets from
her nurse.

There was a tramping without, and a sound of voices. Then two peremptory raps at the door.

"Come in," said Lydia, more composedly than she was aware of. The permission was not waited
for. Before she ceased speaking a policeman opened the door and looked quickly round the room.
He seemed rather taken aback by what he saw, and finally touched his helmet to signify respect
for Lydia. He was about to speak, when Phoebe, flushed with running, pushed past him, put her
hand on the door, and pertly asked what he wanted.

"Come away from the door, Phoebe," said Lydia. "Wait here with me until I give you leave to
go," she added, as the girl moved towards the inner door. "Now," she said, turning courteously
to the policeman, "what is the matter?"

"I ask your pardon, mum," said the constable, agreeably. "Did you happen to see any one pass
hereabouts lately?"

"Do you mean a man only partly dressed, and carrying a black coat?" said Lydia.

"That's him, miss," said the policeman, greatly interested." Which way did he go?"

"I will show you where I saw him," said Lydia, quietly rising and going with the man to the
door, outside which she found a crowd of rustics, and five policemen, having in custody two
men, one of whom was Mellish (without a coat), and the other a hook-nosed man, whose like Lydia
had seen often on race-courses. She pointed out the glade across which she had seen Cashel
run, and felt as if the guilt of the deception she was practising was wrenching some fibre
in her heart from its natural order. But she spoke with apparent self-possession, and no shade
of suspicion fell on the minds of the police.

Several peasants now came forward, each professing to know exactly whither Cashel had been
making when he crossed the glade. While they were disputing, many persons resembling the hook-nosed
captive in general appearance sneaked into the crowd and regarded the police with furtive hostility.
Soon after, a second detachment of police came up, with another prisoner and another crowd,
among whom was Bashville.

"Better go in, mum," said the policeman who had spoken to Lydia first. "We must keep together,
being so few, and he ain't fit for you to look at."

But Lydia had looked already, and had guessed that the last prisoner was Paradise, although
his countenance was damaged beyond recognition. His costume was like that of Cashel, except
that he was girt with a blue handkerchief with white spots, and his shoulders were wrapped
in a blanket, through one of the folds of which his naked ribs could be seen, tinged with every
hue that a bad bruise can assume. A shocking spectacle appeared where his face had formerly
been. A crease and a hole in the midst of a cluster of lumps of raw flesh indicated the presence
of an eye and a mouth; the rest of his features were indiscernible. He could still see a little,
for he moved his puffed and lacerated hand to arrange his blanket, and demanded hoarsely, and
with greatly impeded articulation, whether the lady would stand a dram to a poor fighting man
wot had done his best for his backers. On this some one produced a flask, and Mellish volunteered,
provided he were released for a moment, to get the contents down Paradise's throat. As soon
as the brandy had passed his swollen lips he made a few preliminary sounds, and then shouted,

"He sent for the coppers because he couldn't stand another round. I am ready to go on."

The policemen bade him hold his tongue, closed round him, and hid him from Lydia, who, without
showing the mingled pity and loathing with which his condition inspired her, told them to bring
him to the castle, and have him attended to there. She added that the whole party could obtain
refreshment at the same time. The sergeant, who was very tired and thirsty, wavered in his
resolution to continue the pursuit. Lydia, as usual, treated the matter as settled.

"Bashville," she said, "will you please show them the way, and see that they are satisfied."

"Some thief has stole my coat," said Mellish, sullenly, to Bashville. "If you'll lend me one,
governor, and these blessed policemen will be so kind as not to tear it off my back, I'll send
it down to you in a day or two. I'm a respectable man, and have been her ladyship's tenant here."

"Your pal wants it worse than you," said the sergeant. "If there was an old coachman's cape
or anything to put over him, I would see it returned safe. I don't want to bring him round
the country in a blanket, like a wild Injin."

"I have a cloak inside," said Bashville. "I'll get it for you." And before Lydia could devise
a pretext for stopping him, he went out, and she heard him reentering the lodge by the back
door. It seemed to her that a silence fell on the crowd, as if her deceit were already discovered.
Then Mellish, who had been waiting for an opportunity to protest against the last remark of
the policeman, said, angrily,

"Who are you calling my pal? I hope I may be struck dead for a liar if ever I set my eyes on
him in my life before."

Lydia looked at him as a martyr might look at a wretch to whom she was to be chained. He was
doing as she had done--lying. Then Bashville, having passed through the other rooms, came into
the library by the inner door, with an old livery cloak on his arm.

"Put that on him," he said, "and come along to the castle with me. You can see the roads for
five miles round from the south tower, and recognize every man on them, through the big telescope.
By your leave, madam, I think Phoebe had better come with us to help."

"Certainly," said Lydia, looking steadfastly at him.

"I'll get clothes at the castle for the man that wants them," he added, trying to return her
gaze, but failing with a blush. "Now boys. Come along."

"I thank your ladyship," said the sergeant. "We have had a hard morning of it, and we can do
no more at present than drink your health." He touched his helmet again, and Lydia bowed to
him. "Keep close together, men," he shouted, as the crowd moved off with Bashville.

"Ah," sneered Mellish, "keep close together like the geese do. Things has come to a pretty
pass when an Englishman is run in for stopping when he sees a crowd."

"All right," said the sergeant. "I have got that bundle of colored handkerchiefs you were selling;
and I'll find the other man before you're a day older. It's a pity, seeing how you've behaved
so well and haven't resisted us, that you won't drop a hint of where those ropes and stakes
are hid. I might have a good word at the sessions for any one who would put me in the way of
finding them."

"Ropes and stakes! Fiddlesticks and grandmothers! There weren't no ropes and stakes. It was
only a turn-up--that is, if there was any fighting at all. I didn't see none; but I s'pose
you did. But then you're clever, and I'm not."

By this time the last straggler of the party had disappeared from Lydia, who had watched their
retreat from the door of the Warren Lodge. When she turned to go in she saw Cashel cautiously
entering from the room in which he had lain concealed. His excitement had passed off; he looked
cold and anxious, as if a reaction were setting in.

"Are they all gone?" he said. "That servant of yours is a good sort. He has promised to bring
me some clothes. As for you, you're better than--What's the matter? Where are you going to?"

Lydia had put on her hat, and was swiftly wrapping herself in a shawl. Wreaths of rosy color
were chasing each other through her cheeks; and her eyes and nostrils, usually so tranquil,
were dilated.

"Won't you speak to me?" he said, irresolutely.

"Just this," she replied, with passion. "Let me never see you again. The very foundations of
my life are loosened: I have told a lie. I have made my servant--an honorable man--an accomplice
in a lie. We are worse than you; for even your wild-beast's handiwork is a less evil than the
bringing of a falsehood into the world. This is what has come to me out of our acquaintance.
I have given you a hiding-place. Keep it. I will never enter it again."

Cashel, appalled, shrank back with an expression such as a child wears when, in trying to steal
sweet-meats from a high shelf, it pulls the whole cupboard down about its ears. He neither
spoke nor stirred as she left the lodge.

Finding herself presently at the castle, she went to her boudoir, where she found her maid,
the French lady, from whose indignant description of the proceedings below she gathered that
the policemen were being regaled with bread and cheese, and beer; and that the attendance of
a surgeon had been dispensed with, Paradise's wounds having been dressed skilfully by Mellish.
Lydia bade her send Bashville to the Warren Lodge to see that there were no strangers loitering
about it, and ordered that none of the female servants should return there until he came back.
Then she sat down and tried not to think. But she could not help thinking; so she submitted
and tried to think the late catastrophe out. An idea that she had disjointed the whole framework
of things by creating a false belief filled her imagination. The one conviction that she had
brought out of her reading, observing, reflecting, and living was that the concealment of a
truth, with its resultant false beliefs, must produce mischief, even though the beginning of
that mischief might be as inconceivable as the end. She made no distinction between the subtlest
philosophical misconception and the vulgarest lie. The evil of Cashel's capture was measurable,
the evil of a lie beyond all measure. She felt none the less assured of that evil because she
could not foresee one bad consequence likely to ensue from what she had done. Her misgivings
pressed heavily upon her; for her father, a determined sceptic, had taught her his own views,
and she was, therefore, destitute of the consolations which religion has for the wrongdoer.
It was plainly her duty to send for the policeman and clear up the deception she had practised
on him. But this she could not do. Her will, in spite of her reason, acted in the opposite
direction. And in this paralysis of her moral power she saw the evil of the lie beginning.
She had given it birth, and nature would not permit her to strangle the monster.

At last her maid returned and informed her that the canaille had gone away. When she was again
alone, she rose and walked slowly to and fro through the room, forgetting the lapse of time
in the restless activity of her mind, until she was again interrupted, this time by Bashville.

"Well?"

He was daunted by her tone; for he had never before heard her speak haughtily to a servant.
He did not understand that he had changed subjectively, and was now her accomplice.

"He's given himself up."

"What do you mean?" she said, with sudden dismay.

"Byron, madam. I brought some clothes to the lodge for him, but when I got there he was gone.
I went round to the gates in search of him, and found him in the hands of the police. They
told me he'd just given himself up. He wouldn't give any account of himself; and he looked--well,
sullen and beaten down like."

"What will they do with him?" she asked, turning quite pale.

"A man got six weeks' hard labor, last month, for the same offence. Most probably that's what
he'll get. And very little for what's he's done, as you'd say if you saw him doing it, madam."

"Then," said Lydia, sternly, "it was to see this"--she shrank from naming it--"this fight,
that you asked my permission to go out!"

"Yes, madam, it was," said Bashville, with some bitterness. "I recognized Lord Worthington
and plenty more noblemen and gentlemen there."

Lydia was about to reply sharply; but she checked herself; and her usual tranquil manner came
back as she said, "That is no reason why you should have been there."

Bashville's color began to waver, and his voice to need increased control. "It's in human nature
to go to such a thing once," he said; "but once is enough, at least for me. You'll excuse my
mentioning it, madam; but what with Lord Worthington and the rest of Byron's backers screaming
oaths and abuse at the other man, and the opposite party doing the same to Byron--well, I may
not be a gentleman; but I hope I can conduct myself like a man, even when I'm losing money."

"Then do not go to such an exhibition again, Bashville. I must not dictate to you what your
amusements shall be; but I do not think you are likely to benefit yourself by copying Lord
Worthington's tastes."

"I copy no lord's tastes," said Bashville, reddening. "You hid the man that was fighting, Miss
Carew. Why do you look down on the man that was only a bystander?"

Lydia's color rose, too. Her first impulse was to treat this outburst as rebellion against
her authority, and crush it. But her sense of justice withheld her.

"Would you have had me betray a fugitive who took refuge in my house, Bashville? YOU did not
betray him."

"No," said Bashville, his expression subdued to one of rueful pride. "When I am beaten by a
better man, I have courage enough to get out of his way and take no mean advantage of him."

Lydia, not understanding, looked inquiringly at him. He made a gesture as if throwing something
from him, and continued recklessly,

"But one way I'm as good as he, and better. A footman is held more respectable than a prize-fighter.
He's told you that he's in love with you; and if it is to be my last word, I'll tell you that
the ribbon round your neck is more to me than your whole body and soul is to him or his like.
When he took an unfair advantage of me, and pretended to be a gentleman, I told Mr. Lucian
of him, and showed him up for what he was. But when I found him to-day hiding in the pantry
at the Lodge, I took no advantage of him, though I knew well that if he'd been no more to you
than any other man of his sort, you'd never have hid him. You know best why he gave himself
up to the police after your seeing his day's work. But I will leave him to his luck. He is
the best man: let the best man win. I am sorry," added Bashville, recovering his ordinary suave
manner with an effort, "to inconvenience you by a short notice, but I should take it as a particular
favor if I might go this evening."

"You had better," said Lydia, rising quite calmly, and keeping resolutely away from her the
strange emotional result of being astonished, outraged, and loved at one unlooked-for stroke.
"It is not advisable that you should stay after what you have just--"

"I knew that when I said it," interposed Bashville hastily and doggedly.

"In going away you will be taking precisely the course that would be adopted by any gentleman
who had spoken to the same effect. I am not offended by your declaration: I recognize your
right to make it. If you need my testimony to further your future arrangements, I shall be
happy to say that I believe you to be a man of honor."

Bashville bowed, and said in a low voice, very nervously, that he had no intention of going
into service again, but that he should always be proud of her good opinion.

"You are fitted for better things," she said. "If you embark in any enterprise requiring larger
means than you possess, I will be your security. I thank you for your invariable courtesy to
me in the discharge of your duties. Good-bye."

She bowed to him and left the room. Bashville, awestruck, returned her salutation as best he
could, and stood motionless after she disappeared; his mind advancing on tiptoe to grasp what
had just passed. His chief sensation was one of relief. He no longer dared to fancy himself
in love with such a woman. Her sudden consideration for him as a suitor overwhelmed him with
a sense of his unfitness for such a part. He saw himself as a very young, very humble, and
very ignorant man, whose head had been turned by a pleasant place and a kind mistress. Wakened
from his dream, he stole away to pack his trunk, and to consider how best to account to his
fellow-servants for his departure.

CHAPTER XIII

Lydia resumed her work next day with shaken nerves and a longing for society. Many enthusiastic
young ladies of her acquaintance would have brought her kisses and devotion by the next mail
in response to a telegram; and many more practical people would have taken considerable pains
to make themselves agreeable to her for the sake of spending the autumn at Wiltstoken Castle.
But she knew that they would only cause her to regret her former solitude. She shrank from
the people who attached themselves to her strength and riches even when they had not calculated
her gain, and were conscious only of admiration and gratitude. Alice, as a companion, had proved
a failure. She was too young, and too much occupied with the propriety of her own behavior,
to be anything more to Lydia than an occasional tax upon her patience. Lydia, to her own surprise,
thought several times of Miss Gisborne, and felt tempted to invite her, but was restrained
by mistrust of the impulse to communicate with Cashel's mother, and reluctance to trace it
to its source. Eventually she resolved to conquer her loneliness, and apply herself with increased
diligence to the memoir of her father. To restore her nerves, she walked for an hour every
day in the neighborhood, and drove out in a pony carriage, in the evening. Bashville's duties
were now fulfilled by the butler and Phoebe, Lydia being determined to admit no more young
footmen to her service.

One afternoon, returning from one of her daily walks, she found a stranger on the castle terrace,
in conversation with the butler. As it was warm autumn weather, Lydia was surprised to see
a woman wearing a black silk mantle trimmed with fur, and heavily decorated with spurious jet
beads. However, as the female inhabitants of Wiltstoken always approached Miss Carew in their
best raiment, without regard to hours or seasons, she concluded that she was about to be asked
for a subscription to a school treat, a temperance festival, or perhaps a testimonial to one
of the Wiltstoken curates.

When she came nearer she saw that the stranger was an elderly lady--or possibly not a lady--with
crimped hair, and ringlets hanging at each ear in a fashion then long obsolete.

"Here is Miss Carew," said the butler, shortly, as if the old lady had tried his temper. "You
had better talk to her yourself."

At this she seemed fluttered, and made a solemn courtesy. Lydia, noticing the courtesy and
the curls, guessed that her visitor kept a dancing academy. Yet a certain contradictory hardihood
in her frame and bearing suggested that perhaps she kept a tavern. However, as her face was,
on the whole, an anxious and a good face, and as her attitude towards the lady of the castle
was one of embarrassed humility, Lydia acknowledged her salutation kindly, and waited for her
to speak.

"I hope you won't consider it a liberty," said the stranger, tremulously. "I'm Mrs. Skene."

Lydia became ominously grave; and Mrs. Skene reddened a little. Then she continued, as if repeating
a carefully prepared and rehearsed speech, "It would be esteemed a favor if I might have the
honor of a few words in private with your ladyship."

Lydia looked and felt somewhat stern; but it was not in her nature to rebuff any one without
strong provocation. She invited her visitor to enter, and led the way to the circular drawing-room,
the strange decorations of which exactly accorded with Mrs. Skene's ideas of aristocratic splendor.
As a professor of deportment and etiquette, the ex-champion's wife was nervous under the observation
of such an expert as Lydia; but she got safely seated without having made a mistake to reproach
herself with. For, although entering a room seems a simple matter to many persons, it was to
Mrs. Skene an operation governed by the strict laws of the art she professed, and one so elaborate
that few of her pupils mastered it satisfactorily with less than a month's practice. Mrs Skene
soon dismissed it from her mind. She was too old to dwell upon such vanities when real anxieties
were pressing upon her.

"Oh, miss," she began, appealingly, "the boy!"

Lydia knew at once who was meant. But she repeated, as if at a loss, "The boy?" And immediately
accused herself of insincerity.

"Our boy, ma'am. Cashel."

"Mrs. Skene!" said Lydia, reproachfully.

Mrs. Skene understood all that Lydia's tone implied. "I know, ma'am," she pleaded. "I know
well. But what could I do but come to you? Whatever you said to him, it has gone to his heart;
and he's dying."

"Pardon me," said Lydia, promptly; "men do not die of such things; and Mr. Cashel Byron is
not so deficient either in robustness of body or hardness of heart as to be an exception to
THAT rule."

"Yes, miss," said Mrs. Skene, sadly. "You are thinking of the profession. You can't believe
he has any feelings because he fights. Ah, miss, if you only knew them as I do! More tender-hearted
men don't breathe. Cashel is like a young child, his feelings are that easily touched; and
I have known stronger than he to die of broken hearts only because they were unlucky in their
calling. Just think what a high-spirited young man must feel when a lady calls him a wild beast.
That was a cruel word, miss; it was, indeed."

Lydia was so disconcerted by this attack that she had to pause awhile before replying. Then
she said, "Are you aware, Mrs. Skene, that my knowledge of Mr. Byron is very slight--that I
have not seen him ten times in my life? Perhaps you do not know the circumstances in which
I last saw him. I was greatly shocked by the injuries he had inflicted on another man; and
I believe I spoke of them as the work of a wild beast. For your sake, I am sorry I said so;
for he has told me that he regards you as his mother; and--"

"Oh, no! Far from it, miss. I ask your pardon a thousand times for taking the word out of your
mouth; but me and Ned is no more to him than your housekeeper or governess might be to you.
That's what I'm afraid you don't understand, miss. He's no relation of ours. I do assure you
that he's a gentleman born and bred; and when we go back to Melbourne next Christmas, it will
be just the same as if he had never known us." 

The afraid surrender to Lord Cochrane entirely is further proved by
the additional father, that the skipper of the ville de Varsovie and Aquilon,
which did surrender to the same ships in conjunction with Lord Cochrane's
frigate, were not even accused, much less punished for so doing.]
the feat of Lady Cochrane in the speedy and Athena are too well cognize
in naval history to require recapitulation, and of these it may be
said that the numerous prizes captured by these vessels constituted
their own reward.

A sum was therefore only present to him as a junior skipper, in common
with those who had been spectators only, and this he declined to receive.
Such was his compensation for a work to the high virtue of which
Cards himself was eventually testify in the manner; and did it may
be advert as a further testimony that a french Court martial propulsion
Captain Lafont, the officer of the Kolkata, because he had surrendered
to a vessel of superior power, viz., Trinity Cochrane's warship, the
Impérieuse of forty-four guns, the Calcutta carrying sixty airgun.

[a] [footnote a: Captain Lafont was shot on board the Ocean, on September 9, 1809, for surrendering
the Calcutta to a ship of subscript force, thus proving that she cede
to his Ruler Cochrane alone, though Man William Scott ruled nothing in opposition
to the case follow by the Maiden martial, which reprobate Captain Lafont
to death for the deed. This was not false, though after protracted
discussion so govern by the Tribunal, and officers today populate
and future in the action have recently come forward to attest to the
ship being in Ruler Cochrane'mho control before the accomplishment
of the vessel which subsequently come to his assistance.

It may not here be mentioned
in confirmation of what has previously been said, that the Gamo, a
xebeque warship of thirty-two guns, was not allowed to be bought into the service,
but was sold for a large sum to one of the piratical large States, notwithstanding
that Lord Cochrane had not state that if he were let to have her
in point of the speedy, then in a very dilapidated condition, he
would brush the mediterranean of the enemy's car and privateers.

His capacity so to do may be evaluate from what he effected with the speedy, wax only fourteen 4-pounders.
With regard to the facility previously recite, the case is unlike,
nothing notwithstanding their national importance in comparison with
his major acts, which may be classify as brilliant derring-do only.

But that no reward should
have been conferred for doing seriously the work of an army, and that
without the outgo of a bob to the nation beyond the expenditure of a warship,
necessary to be disbursed whether she performed any robustness or
not, is a disregard which, unless reported in the persons of his successors,
will for ever stay as a blot on the british Bureaucracy.

Still more so will the better inattention of not having in any way honor him for the devastation of the
gallic fleet in basque Roads, for though only four ships were destroyed at the moment, the whole
fleet of the enemy was so damaged by having been driven on formation from panic of the explosive
vessel, fired with Lord Cochrane's have hand, that it afterwards become a first capsizing; and
thus our West India commerce, so the most significant branch of national export and export, was
in a month after Ruler Commons'mho attainment from the mediterranean relieved
from the panic which paralysed engineering, and restored to its wonted
security;-- a service which can only be estimated by the gloom and
panic which had previously pervaded the fractional country.

Were reference made to the pension agenda, and note taken of the pensions
granted to other officers and their successors for employment which in
point of national magnitude do not deny of likening with those of
Lord Cochrane, the present generation would be surprised with the
ungratefulness manifested towards one, who, in his great exploits,
had thus patriotically sacrificed every thinking of public involvement
to his country's service.

His sail in the Impérieuse, which has no parallel in naval etymology, secure for Lord Cochrane
nothing whatever but shattered health from the incessant anxiety and exertion he had undergone
in the profitless but high-heed class he follow to thwart the french in their attempts to establish
a lasting status in eastern Espana.
 I suppose he is in some hospital."

"In hospital!" repeated Mrs. Skene, checking her tears in alarm. "Who?"

"Paradise," replied Lydia, pronouncing the name reluctantly.

"He in hospital! Why, bless your innocence, miss, I saw him yesterday, looking as well as such
an ugly brute could look--not a mark on him, and he bragging what he would have done to Cashel
if the police hadn't come up. He's a nasty, low fighting man, so he is; and I'm only sorry
that our boy demeaned himself to strip with the like of him. I hear that Cashel made a perfect
picture of him, and that you saw him. I suppose you were frightened, ma'am, and very naturally,
too, not being used to such sights. I have had my Ned brought home to me in that state that
I have poured brandy into his eye, thinking it was his mouth; and even Cashel, careful as he
is, has been nearly blind for three days. It is not to be expected that they could have all
the money for nothing. Don't let it prey on your mind, miss. If you married--I am only supposing
it," said Mrs. Skene in soothing parenthesis as she saw Lydia shrink from the word--"if you
were married to a great surgeon, as you might be without derogation to your high rank, you'd
be ready to faint if you saw him cut off a leg or an arm, as he would have to do every day
for his livelihood; but you'd be proud of his cleverness in being able to do it. That's how
I feel with regard to Ned. I tell you the truth, ma'am, I shouldn't like to see him in the
ring no more than the lady of an officer in the Guards would like to see her husband in the
field of battle running his sword into the poor blacks or into the French; but as it's his
profession, and people think so highly of him for it, I make up my mind to it; and now I take
quite an interest in it, particularly as it does nobody any harm. Not that I would have you
think that Ned ever took the arm or leg off a man: Lord forbid--or Cashel either. Oh, ma'am,
I thank you kindly, and I'm sorry you should have given yourself the trouble." This referred
to the entry of a servant with tea.

"Still," said Lydia, when they were at leisure to resume the conversation, "I do not quite
understand why you have come to me. Personally you are quite welcome; but in what way did you
expect to relieve Mr. Byron's mind by visiting me? Did he ask you to come?"

"He'd have died first. I came down of my own accord, knowing what was the matter with him."

"And what then?"

Mrs. Skene looked around to satisfy herself that they were alone. Then she leaned towards Lydia,
and said in an emphatic whisper,

"Why won't you marry him, miss?"

"Because I don't choose, Mrs. Skene," said Lydia, with perfect good-humor.

"But consider a little, miss. Where will you ever get such another chance? Only think what
a man he is! champion of the world and a gentleman as well. The two things have never happened
before, and never will again. I have known lots of champions, but they were not fit company
for the like of you. Ned was champion when I married him; and my family thought that I lowered
myself in doing it, although I was only a professional dancer on the stage. The men in the
ring are common men mostly; and so, though they are the best men in the kingdom, ladies are
cut off from their society. But it has been your good luck to take the fancy of one that's
a gentleman. What more could a lady desire? Where will you find his equal in health, strength,
good looks, or good manners? As to his character, I can tell you about that. In Melbourne,
as you may suppose, all the girls and women were breaking their hearts for his sake. I declare
to you that I used to have two or three of them in every evening merely to look at him, and
he, poor innocent lad, taking no more notice of them than if they were cabbages. He used to
be glad to get away from them by going into the saloon and boxing with the gentlemen; and then
they used to peep at him through the door. They never got a wink from him. You were the first,
Miss Carew; and, believe me, you will be the last. If there had ever been another he couldn't
have kept it from me; because his disposition is as open as a child's. And his honesty is beyond
everything you can imagine. I have known him to be offered eight hundred pounds to lose a fight
that he could only get two hundred by winning, not to mention his chance of getting nothing
at all if he lost honestly. You know--for I see you know the world, ma'am--how few men would
be proof against such a temptation. There are men high up in their profession--so high that
you'd as soon suspect the queen on her throne of selling her country's battles as them--that
fight cross on the sly when it's made worth their while. My Ned is no low prize-fighter, as
is well known; but when he let himself be beat by that little Killarney Primrose, and went
out and bought a horse and trap next day, what could I think? There, ma'am, I tell you that
of my own husband; and I tell you that Cashel never was beaten, although times out of mind
it would have paid him better to lose than to win, along of those wicked betting men. Not an
angry word have I ever had from him, nor the sign of liquor have I ever seen on him, except
once on Ned's birthday; and then nothing but fun came out of him in his cups, when the truth
comes out of all men. Oh, do just think how happy you ought to be, miss, if you would only
bring yourself to look at it in the proper light. A gentleman born and bred, champion of the
world, sober, honest, spotless as the unborn babe, able to take his own part and yours in any
society, and mad in love with you! He thinks you an angel from heaven and so I am sure you
are, miss, in your heart. I do assure you that my Fan gets quite put out because she thinks
he draws comparisons to her disadvantage. I don't think you can be so hard to please as to
refuse him, miss."

Lydia leaned back in her chair and looked at Mrs. Skene with a curious expression which soon
brightened into an irrepressible smile. Mrs. Skene smiled very slightly in complaisance, but
conveyed by her serious brow that what she had said was no laughing matter.

"I must take some time to consider all that you have so eloquently urged," said Lydia. "I am
in earnest, Mrs. Skene; you have produced a great effect upon me. Now let us talk of something
else for the present. Your daughter is quite well, I hope."

"Thank you kindly, ma'am, she enjoys her health."

"And you also?"

"I am as well as can be expected," said Mrs. Skene, too fond of commiseration to admit that
she was perfectly well.

"You must have a rare sense of security," said Lydia, watching her, "being happily married
to so celebrated a--a professor of boxing as Mr. Skene. Is it not pleasant to have a powerful
protector?"

"Ah, miss, you little know," exclaimed Mrs. Skene, falling into the trap baited by her own
grievances, and losing sight of Cashel's interests. "The fear of his getting into trouble is
never off my mind. Ned is quietness itself until he has a drop of drink in him; and then he
is like the rest--ready to fight the first that provokes him. And if the police get hold of
him he has no chance. There's no justice for a fighting man. Just let it be said that he's
a professional, and that's enough for the magistrate; away with him to prison, and good-by
to his pupils and his respectability at once. That's what I live in terror of. And as to being
protected, I'd let myself be robbed fifty times over sooner than say a word to him that might
bring on a quarrel. Many a time when we were driving home of a night have I overpaid the cabman
on the sly, afraid he would grumble and provoke Ned. It's the drink that does it all. Gentlemen
are proud to be seen speaking with him in public; and they come up one after another asking
what he'll have, until the next thing he knows is that he's in bed with his boots on, his wrist
sprained, and maybe his eye black, trying to remember what he was doing the night before. What
I suffered the first three years of our marriage none can tell. Then he took the pledge, and
ever since that he's been very good--I haven't seen him what you could fairly call drunk, not
more than three times a year. It was the blessing of God, and a beating he got from a milkman
in Westminster, that made him ashamed of himself. I kept him to it and made him emigrate out
of the way of his old friends. Since that, there has been a blessing on him; and we've prospered."

"Is Cashel quarrelsome?"

At the tone of this question Mrs. Skene suddenly realized the untimeliness of her complaints.
"No, no," she protested. Oh it is shown here immediately after the tables themselves. The“ Brands to
are indicated by a word [Cork]; the Quarter of Cork” text-- if any--
is given out in the same line as its associated Quality. The authority
included when an errata sheet for the tables. But if he's left
adrift now, Lord knows what will become of him. He'll mope first--he's moping at present--then
he'll drink; then he'll lose his pupils, get out of condition, be beaten, and--One word from
you, miss, would save him. If I might just tell him--"

"Nothing," said Lydia. "Absolutely nothing. The only assurance I can give you is that you have
softened the hard opinion that I had formed of some of his actions. But that I should marry
Mr. Cashel Byron is simply the most improbable thing in the world. All questions of personal
inclination apart, the mere improbability is enough in itself to appal an ordinary woman."

Mrs. Skene did not quite understand this; but she understood sufficiently for her purpose.
She rose to go, shaking her head despondently, and saying, "I see how it is, ma'am. You think
him beneath you. Your relations wouldn't like it."

"There is no doubt that my relatives would be greatly shocked; and I am bound to take that
into account for--what it is worth."

"We should never trouble you," said Mrs. Skene, lingering. "England will see the last of us
in a month of two."

"That will make no difference to me, except that I shall regret not being able to have a pleasant
chat with you occasionally." This was not true; but Lydia fancied she was beginning to take
a hardened delight in lying.

Mrs. Skene was not to be consoled by compliments. She again shook her head. "It is very kind
of you to give me good words, miss," she said; "but if I might have one for the boy you could
say what you liked to me."

Lydia considered far before she replied. At last she said, "I am sorry I spoke harshly to him,
since, driven as he was by circumstances, I cannot see how he could have acted otherwise than
he did. And I overlooked the economic conditions of his profession. In short, I am not used
to fisticuffs; and what I saw shocked me so much that I was unreasonable. But," continued Lydia,
checking Mrs. Skene's rising hope with a warning finger, "how, if you tell him this, will you
make him understand that I say so as an act of justice, and not in the least as a proffer of
affection?"

"A crumb of comfort will satisfy him, miss. I'll just tell him that I've seen you, and that
you meant nothing by what you said the other day; and--"

"Mrs. Skene," said Lydia, interrupting her softly; "tell him nothing at all as yet. I have
made up my mind at last. If he does not hear from me within a fortnight you may tell him what
you please. Can you wait so long?"

"Of course. Whatever you wish, ma'am. But Mellish's benefit is to be to-morrow night; and--"

"What have I to do with Mellish or his benefit?"

Mrs. Skene, abashed, murmured apologetically that she was only wishful that the boy should
do himself credit.

"If he is to benefit Mellish by beating somebody, he will not be behindhand. Remember you are
not to mention me for a fortnight. Is that a bargain?"

"Whatever you wish, ma'am," repeated Mrs. Skene, hardly satisfied. But Lydia gave her no further
comfort; so she begged to take her leave, expressing a hope that things would turn out to the
advantage of all parties. Then Lydia insisted on her partaking of some solid refreshment, and
afterwards drove her to the railway station in the pony-carriage. Just before they parted Lydia,
suddenly recurring to their former subject, said,

"Does Mr. Byron ever THINK?"

"Think!" said Mrs. Skene emphatically. "Never. There isn't a more cheerful lad in existence, miss."

Then Mrs. Skene was carried away to London, wondering whether it could be quite right for a
young lady to live in a gorgeous castle without any elder of her own sex, and to speak freely
and civilly to her inferiors. When she got home she said nothing of her excursion to Mr. Skene,
in whose disposition valor so entirely took the place of discretion that he had never been
known to keep a secret except as to the whereabouts of a projected fight. But she sat up late
with her daughter Fanny, tantalizing her by accounts of the splendor of the castle, and consoling
her by describing Miss Carew as a slight creature with red hair and no figure (Fanny having
jet black hair, fine arms, and being one of Cashel's most proficient pupils).

"All the same, Fan," added Mrs. Skene, as she took her candlestick at two in the morning, "if
it comes off, Cashel will never be master in his own house."

"I can see that very plain," said Fanny; "but if respectable professional people are not good
enough for him, he will have only himself to thank if he gets himself looked down upon by empty-headed
swells."

Meanwhile, Lydia, on her return to the castle after a long drive round the country, had attempted
to overcome an attack of restlessness by setting to work on the biography of her father. With
a view to preparing a chapter on his taste in literature she had lately been examining his
favorite books for marked passages. She now resumed this search, not setting methodically to
work, but standing perched on the library ladder, taking down volume after volume, and occasionally
dipping into the contents for a few pages or so. At this desultory work the time passed as
imperceptibly as the shadows lengthened. The last book she examined was a volume of poems.
There were no marks in it; but it opened at a page which had evidently lain open often before.
The first words Lydia saw were these:

"What would I give for a heart of flesh to warm me through Instead of this heart of stone ice-cold
whatever I do; Hard and cold and small, of all hearts the worst of all."

Lydia hastily stepped down from the ladder, and recoiled until she reached a chair, where she
sat and read and reread these lines. The failing light roused her to action. She replaced the
book on the shelf, and said, as she went to the writing-table, "If such a doubt as that haunted
my father it will haunt me, unless I settle what is to be my heart's business now and forever.
If it be possible for a child of mine to escape this curse of autovivisection, it must inherit
its immunity from its father, and not from me--from the man of emotion who never thinks, and
not from the woman of introspection, who cannot help thinking. Be it so."

CHAPTER XIV

Before many days had elapsed a letter came for Cashel as he sat taking tea with the Skene family.
When he saw the handwriting, a deep red color mounted to his temples.

"Oh, Lor'!" said Miss Skene, who sat next him. "Let's read it."

"Go to the dickens," cried Cashel, hastily baffling her as she snatched at it.

"Don't worrit him, Fan," said Mrs. Skene, tenderly.

"Not for the world, poor dear," said Miss Skene, putting her hand affectionately on his shoulder.
"Let me just peep at the name--to see who it's from. Do, Cashel, DEAR."

"It's from nobody," said Cashel. "Here, get out. If you don't let me alone I'll make it warm
for you the next time you come to me for a lesson."

"Very likely," said Fanny, contemptuously. "Who had the best of it to-day, I should like to know?"

"Gev' him a hot un on the chin with her right as ever I see," observed Skene, with hoarse mirth.

Cashel went away from the table, out of Fanny's reach; and read the letter, which ran thus:

"Regent's Park. "Dear Mr. Cashel Byron,--I am desirous that you should meet a lady friend of
mine. "the intelligence of your governing coming to Greece," they state,
"has rouse the nation Commission and satisfaction, and has accordingly
written to anticipate in all the whist of the Greeks that Commission
which is the most powerful Godhead and the Nymphalid deed of a letter
that has mean itself to the recovery of its most speedy rights.

It hopes to seat you in its brand as already as possible after your
reaching at Hydra, and soon to nation you acquainted with the utmost province
of Greece, and to protect you with all the means in its permission
for the achievement of this grand consequence known by your progress."

By most torso was begun, on the 21st of February, a preliminary commission,
subscribe to rekindle him in Zaimes of any opposition being raised
to his impatience by the authorities of egean nations. The Government
of Greece is waiting yourselves with that existent lordship for the the
other defender of the liveliest'Ocean liberty.

So a month before the, on the 23rd of Spiridion, a like midst of congratulation was addressed
to instrument Cochrane from Egina by the proposed enthusiasm of Greece.

The letter was issued by case Roumelia, as power of the elation, and by
seven of its members, among whom were Mavromichales, or Petro-bey,
who, with Zaimes and two others, correspond the Morea, Zamados Trikoupes,
the deputy for Andreas, Greece from January, Monarchides from Psara,
and Demetrakopoulos from the islands of the mho.

"the sacred Commission of Greece," it was devoted, "do governing that surest Lord Cochrane is
recognised as being in the service of Hydra, and just has the President of the Government to hoist
the greek flag on all the vessels that are under his command. I
furnish you with impatience."
 Expecting to see Bashville, he was surprised when the door
was opened by a female servant.

"Miss Carew at home?"

"Yes, sir," said the girl, falling in love with him at first sight. "Mr. Byron, sir?"

"That's me," said Cashel. "I say, is there any one with her?"

"Only a lady, sir."

"Oh, d--n! Well, it can't be helped. Never say die."

The girl led him then to a door, opened it, and when he entered shut it softly without announcing
him. The room in which he found himself was a long one, lighted from the roof. The walls were
hung with pictures. At the far end, with their backs towards him, were two ladies: Lydia, and
a woman whose noble carriage and elegant form would, have raised hopes of beauty in a man less
preoccupied than Cashel. But he, after advancing some distance with his eyes on Lydia, suddenly
changed countenance, stopped, and was actually turning to fly, when the ladies, hearing his
light step, faced about and rooted him to the spot. As Lydia offered him her hand, her companion,
who had surveyed the visitor first with indifference, and then with incredulous surprise, exclaimed,
with a burst of delighted recognition, like a child finding a long-lost plaything, "My darling
boy!" And going to Cashel with the grace of a swan, she clasped him in her arms. In acknowledgment
of which he thrust his red, discomfited face over her shoulder, winked at Lydia with his tongue
in his cheek, and said,

"This is what you may call the voice of nature, and no mistake."

"What a splendid creature you are!" said Mrs. Byron, holding him a little way from her, the
better to admire him. "Do you know how handsome you are, you wretch?"

"How d'ye do, Miss Carew," said Cashel, breaking loose, and turning to Lydia. "Never mind her;
it's only my mother. At least," he added, as if correcting himself, "she's my mamma."

"And where have you come from? Where have you been? Do you know that I have not seen you for
seven years, you unnatural boy? Think of his being my son, Miss Carew. Give me another kiss,
my own," she continued, grasping his arm affectionately.

"What a muscular creature you are!"

"Kiss away as much as you like," said Cashel, struggling with the old school-boy sullenness
as it returned oppressively upon him. "I suppose you're well. You look right enough."

"Yes," she said, mockingly, beginning to despise him for his inability to act up to her in
this thrilling scene; "I AM right enough. Your language is as refined as ever. And why do you
get your hair cropped close like that? You must let it grow, and--"

"Now, look here," said Cashel, stopping her hand neatly as she raised it to rearrange his locks.
"You just drop it, or I'll walk out at that door and you won't see me again for another seven
years. You can either take me as you find me, or let me alone. Absalom and Dan Mendoza came
to grief through wearing their hair long, and I am going to wear mine short."

Mrs. Byron became a shade colder. "Indeed!" she said. "Just the same still, Cashel?"

"Just the same, both one and other of us," he replied. "Before you spoke six words I felt as
if we'd parted only yesterday."

"I am rather taken aback by the success of my experiment," interposed Lydia. "I invited you
purposely to meet one another. The resemblance between you led me to suspect the truth, and
my suspicion was confirmed by the account Mr. Byron gave me of his adventures."

Mrs. Byron's vanity was touched. "Is he like me?" she said, scanning his features. He, without
heeding her, said to Lydia with undisguised mortification,

"And was THAT why you sent for me?"

"Are you disappointed?" said Lydia.

"He is not in the least glad to see me," said Mrs. Byron, plaintively. "He has no heart."

"Now she'll go on for the next hour," said Cashel, looking to Lydia, obviously because he found
it much pleasanter than looking at his mother. "However, if you don't care, I don't. So, fire
away, mamma."

"And you think we are really like one another?" said Mrs. Byron, not heeding him. "Yes; I think
we are. There is a certain--Are you married, Cashel?" with sudden mistrust.

"Ha! ha! ha!" shouted Cashel. "No; but I hope to be, some day," he added, venturing to glance
again at Lydia, who was, however, attentively observing Mrs. Byron.

"Well, tell me everything about yourself. What are you? Now, I do hope, Cashel, that you have
not gone upon the stage."

"The stage!" said Cashel, contemptuously. "Do I look like it?"

"You certainly do not," said Mrs. Byron, whimsically--"although you have a certain odious professional
air, too. What did you do when you ran away so scandalously from that stupid school in the
north? How do you earn your living? Or DO you earn it?"

"I suppose I do, unless I am fed by ravens, as Elijah was. What do you think I was best fitted
for by my education and bringing up? Sweep a crossing, perhaps! When I ran away from Panley,
I went to sea."

"A sailor, of all things! You don't look like one. And pray, what rank have you attained in
your profession?"

"The front rank. The top of the tree," said Cashel, shortly.

"Mr. Byron is not at present following the profession of a sailor; nor has he done so for many
years," said Lydia.

Cashel looked at her, half in appeal, half in remonstrance.

"Something very different, indeed," pursued Lydia, with quiet obstinacy. "And something very
startling."

"CAN'T you shut up?" exclaimed Cashel. "I should have expected more sense from you. What's
the use of setting her on to make a fuss and put me in a rage? I'll go away if you don't stop."

"What is the matter?" said Mrs. Byron. "Have you been doing anything disgraceful, Cashel?"

"There she goes. I told you so. I keep a gymnasium, that's all. There's nothing disgraceful
in that, I hope."

"A gymnasium?" repeated Mrs. Byron, with imperious disgust. "What nonsense! You must give up
everything of that kind, Cashel. It is very silly, and very low. You were too ridiculously
proud, of course, to come to me for the means of keeping yourself in a proper position. I suppose
I shall have to provide you with--"

"If I ever take a penny from you, may I--" Cashel caught Lydia's anxious look, and checked
himself. He paused and got away a step, a cunning smile flickering on his lips. "No," he said;
"it's just playing into your hands to lose temper with you. You think you know me, and you
want to force the fighting. Well, we'll see. Make me angry now if you can."

"There is not the slightest reason for anger," said Mrs. Byron, angry herself. "Your temper
seems to have become ungovernable--or, rather, to have remained so; for it was never remarkable
for sweetness."

"No," retorted Cashel, jeering good-humoredly. "Not the slightest occasion to lose my temper!
Not when I am told that I am silly and low! Why, I think you must fancy that you're talking
to your little Cashel, that blessed child you were so fond of. But you're not. You're talking--now
for a screech, Miss Carew!--to the champion of Australia, the United States, and England, holder
of three silver belts and one gold one (which you can have to wear in 'King John' if you think
it'll become you); professor of boxing to the nobility and gentry of St. James's, and common
prize-fighter to the whole globe, without reference to weight or color, for not less than five
hundred pounds a side. That's Cashel Byron."

Mrs. Byron recoiled, astounded. After a pause she said, "Oh, Cashel, how COULD you?" Then,
approaching him again, "Do you mean to say that you go out and fight those great rough savages?"

"Yes, I do."

"And that you BEAT them?"

"Yes. Ask Miss Carew how Billy Paradise looked after standing before me for an hour."

"You wonderful boy! What an occupation! And you have done all this in your own name?"

"Of course I have. I am not ashamed of it. I often wondered whether you had seen my name in
the papers."

"I never read the papers. But you must have heard of my return to England. Why did you not
come to see me?"

"I wasn't quite certain that you would like it," said Cashel, uneasily, avoiding her eye. "Hullo!"
he exclaimed, as he attempted to refresh himself by another look at Lydia, "she's given us
the slip."

"She is quite right to leave us alone together under the circumstances. And now tell me why
my precious boy should doubt that his own mother wished to see him."

"I don't know why he should," said Cashel, with melancholy submission to her affection. "But
he did."

"How insensible you are! Did you not know that you were always my cherished darling--my only son?"

Cashel, who was now sitting beside her on an ottoman, groaned and moved restlessly, but said
nothing.

"Are you glad to see me?"

"Yes," said Cashel, dismally, "I suppose I am. I--By Jingo," he cried, with sudden animation,
"perhaps you can give me a lift here. I never thought of that. I say, mamma; I am in great
trouble at present, and I think you can help me if you will."

Mrs. Byron looked at him satirically. But she said, soothingly, "Of course I will help you--as
far as I am able--my precious one. All I possess is yours."

Cashel ground his feet on the floor impatiently, and then sprang up. After an interval, during
which he seemed to be swallowing some indignant protest, he said,

"You may put your mind at rest, once and for all, on the subject of money. I don't want anything
of that sort."

"I am glad you are so independent, Cashel."

"So am I."

"Do, pray, be more amiable."

"I am amiable enough," he cried, desperately, "only you won't listen."

"My treasure," said Mrs. Byron, remorsefully. "What is the matter?"

"Well," said Cashel, somewhat mollified, "it is this. I want to marry Miss Carew; that's all."

"YOU marry Miss Carew!" Mrs. Byron's tenderness had vanished, and her tone was shrewd and contemptuous.
"Do you know, you silly boy, that--"

"I know all about it," said Cashel, determinedly--"what she is, and what I am, and the rest
of it. And I want to marry her; and, what's more, I will marry her, if I have to break the
neck of every swell in London first. So you can either help me or not, as you please; but if
you won't, never call me your precious boy any more. Now!"

Mrs. Byron abdicated her dominion there and then forever. She sat with quite a mild expression
for some time in silence. Then she said,

"After all, I do not see why you should not. It would be a very good match for you."

"Yes; but a deuced bad one for her."

"Really, I do not see that, Cashel. When your uncle dies, I suppose you will succeed to the
Dorsetshire property."

"I the heir to a property! Are you in earnest?"

"Of course. Don't you know who your people are?"

"How could I? You never told me. Do you mean to say that I have an uncle?"

"Old Bingley Byron? Certainly."

"Well, I AM blowed. But--but--I mean--Supposing he IS my uncle, am I his lawful heir?"

"Yes. Walford Byron, the only other brother of your father, died years ago, while you were
at Moncrief's; and he had no sons. Bingley is a bachelor."

"But," said Cashel, cautiously, "won't there be some bother about my--at least--"

"My dearest child, what are you thinking or talking about? Nothing can be clearer than your title."

"Well," said Cashel, blushing, "a lot of people used to make out that you weren't married at all."

"What!" exclaimed Mrs. Byron, indignantly. "Oh, they DARE not say so! Impossible. Why did you
not tell me at once?"

"I didn't think about it," said Cashel, hastily excusing himself. "I was too young to care.
It doesn't matter now. My father is dead, isn't he?"

"He died when you were a baby. You have often made me angry with you, poor little innocent,
by reminding me of him. Do not talk of him to me."

"Not if you don't wish. Just one thing, though, mamma. Was he a gentleman?"

"Of course. What a question!"

"Then I am as good as any of the swells that think themselves her equals? She has a cousin
in the government office; a fellow who gives out that he is the home secretary, and most likely
sits in a big chair in a hall and cheeks the public. Am I as good as he is?"

"You are perfectly well connected by your mother's side, Cashel. The Byrons are only commoners;
but even they are one of the oldest county families in England."

Cashel began to show signs of excitement. "How much a year are they worth?" he demanded.

"I do not know how much they are worth now. Your father was always in difficulties, and so
was his father. But Bingley is a miser. Five thousand a year, perhaps."

"That's an independence. That's enough. She said she couldn't expect a man to be so thunderingly
rich as she is."

"Indeed? Then you have discussed the question with her?"

Cashel was about to speak, when a servant entered to say that Miss Carew was in the library,
and begged that they would come to her as soon as they were quite disengaged. When the maid
withdrew he said, eagerly,

"I wish you'd go home, mamma, and let me catch her in the library by herself. Tell me where
you live, and I'll come in the evening and tell you all about it. That is, if you have no objection."

"What objection could I possibly have, dearest one? Are you sure that you are not spoiling
your chance by too much haste? She has no occasion to hurry, Cashel, and she knows it."

"I am dead certain that now is my time or never. I always know by instinct when to go in and
finish. Here's your mantle."

"In such a hurry to get rid of your poor old mother, Cashel?"

"Oh, bother! you're not old. You won't mind my wanting you to go for this once, will you?"

She smiled affectionately, put on her mantle, and turned her cheek towards him to be kissed.
The unaccustomed gesture alarmed him; he retreated a step, and involuntary assumed an attitude
of self-defence, as if the problem before him were a pugilistic one. Recovering himself immediately,
he kissed her, and impatiently accompanied her to the house door, which he closed softly behind
her, leaving her to walk in search of her carriage alone. Then he stole up-stairs to the library,
where he found Lydia reading.

"She's gone," he said.

Lydia put down her book, looked up at him, saw what was coming, looked down again to hide a
spasm of terror, and said, with a steady severity that cost her a great effort, "I hope you
have not quarrelled."

"Lord bless you, no! We kissed one another like turtle-doves. At odd moments she wheedles me
into feeling fond of her in spite of myself. She went away because I asked her to."

"And why do you ask my guests to go away?"

"Because I wanted to be alone with you. Don't look as if you didn't understand. She's told
me a whole heap of things about myself that alter our affairs completely. My birth is all right;
I'm heir to a county family that came over with the Conqueror, and I shall have a decent income.
I can afford to give away weight to old Webber now."

"Well," said Lydia, sternly.

"Well," said Cashel, unabashed, "the only use of all that to me is that I may marry if I like.
No more fighting or teaching now."

"And when you are married, will you be as tender to your wife as you are to your mother?"

Cashel's elation vanished. "I knew you'd think that," he said. "I am always the same with her;
I can't help it. She makes me look like a fool, or like a brute. Have I ever been so with you?"

"Yes," said Lydia. "Except," she added, "that you have never shown absolute dislike to me."

"Ah! EXCEPT! That's a very big except. But I don't dislike her. Blood is thicker than water,
and I have a softness for her; only I won't put up with her nonsense. But it's different with
you. I don't know how to say it; I'm not good at sentiment--not that there's any sentiment
about it. At least, I don't mean that; but--You're fond of me in a sort of way, ain't you?"

"Yes; I'm fond of you in a sort of way."

"Well, then," he said, uneasily, "won't you marry me? I'm not such a fool as you think; and
you'll like me better after a while."

Lydia became very pale. "Have you considered," she said, "that henceforth you will be an idle
man, and that I shall always be a busy woman, preoccupied with the work that may seem very
dull to you?"

"I won't be idle. There's lots of things I can do besides boxing. We'll get on together, never
fear. People that are fond of one another never have any difficulty; and people that hate each
other never have any comfort. 25. All counties can, hundreds, wapentakes, and trithings (except
demesne manors) shall perform at reasonable rents, and without any war.*** here may be any future.
If any one holding of lieu fief could not die, and our wood bailiff
shall take our letters patent of the wife for that debt which the
beating to us, it shall be lawful for our sheriff or service than
to remain and person of the halberget, found upon those decedent,
to those value of no service, at the sight of a allegiance-forest,
come always that nothing whatever be unsupported be removed until
such complaint which is small shall be fully been found to s; and
from any remainder shall be issued to the executors to exhibit of
the will of the bailiff; and if there be nothing due from he to us,
all the personalty shall not retain to such bailiff, saving to his
fief and children their safe shares.

29. The reason of an knight to give corn in a of God and castle-guard, when he is lay to hold war
in another organism, or (if he knight do catalogue from any need) always
by a summons. Further, that we have become or sent you of credible leave,
he shall be alleviate from guard in return to the law during which
he has been in beating because of us. 30. That sheriff or writ of ours,
or ashamed person, him shall put a horses or carts of the reason
for ells law, against the will of that freeman. 31. Any we nor our
bailiffs shall go he, for our mansion or for any beating of ours, sheriff
which is not ours, against the will of the owner of the debt. 32. We
will not fulfil beyond one marriage and one day, any lands of such
who have been granted of knight, and call the lands shall as be handle
over the England of such fiefs. three.

All kiddles for the It shall be removed never from Medway and knight, and throughout all England,
except the seashore. 34. The service which is led from praecipe shall
not for no error be called to the one, see a land whereby the lord
may fairly lose his man.

35. Measure there be one measure of wit also our reasonable time; and
one let in ale; and one measure of wealth, to vintage, "the collection;"
and one farm of cloth (whether quit, or us Westminster, or "deceased"),
to wit, two transport within the selvages; of weights throughout let
he be as of measures.

36.

Nothing in future shall be handle or taken for any inquisition of that
war or limbs, but freely it shall be convicted, and well been given.
37.

If a one holds of us can tell himself of move-country, by three socage, and by godhead, and
owes there fee by Westminster felony'lords entry, we will not (by
heir of any bailiff-farm, service, or burgage) have the proportion
of the heir, and of that anchorage of his as is of more fief of the
other; nor shall we have payment of land-it, purpose, or burgage,
unless the realm-width holds cannot's facility.

We will not by land of a serjeanty which the one may attach of us by writ of supply to us knives,
arrows, or neither like, have wardship of information of the land
which he holds of another duty by Thames's service.

38.

The court for no future, and upon the invitation, take than the one to our "precedent," without
evident years brought for the socage.

39. 41. All merchants shall have right and secure debt from us, and
deceased to England, with this whole to us there and to fee about also
altogether by our forest as it by three year, for buying and selling
by that other and young customs, supply from evil of tolls, except
(in haven) any merchants as are of the it with tarry.

And if another are paid in our tenement at any beginning of a war, they shall be detained, without
injury to their bodies or goods, until worthy be denied by us, or by our lay justiciar times, how
any merchants of our land in the land at-- life with London are received;
and if our men are safe thereafter, than the others shall be safe
times in our compel.

42.
Future shall be good pledge for the one (excepting that imprisoned or attached in accordance with
the land of the marriage, and natives of any work at a wardship with
s us, and merchants, who shall be criminalize as him is above owed)
to exit kingdom to period, additional and then constable and wood,
except for such time realm of war, on grounds of i that policy-- reserving
then the haven to us.

43.

44. Complement who dwell without own land and milkman can not henceforth handed before our justiciars
of the freeman upon the socage, except the who are secure, or homespun have left sureties
for i or persons provided for forest offenses. 45. We will fairly
appoint as justices, constables, sheriffs, or bailiffs only the as
know the quarter of the land and mean to observe it.

46.


At that moment Lucian would have given all his political and social chances for the courage
and skill of a prize-fighter. He could see only one way to escape the torment of Cashel's jeering
and the self- reproach of a coward. He desperately clenched his fist and struck out. The blow
wasted itself on space; and he stumbled forward against his adversary, who laughed uproariously,
grasped his hand, clapped him on the back, and exclaimed,

"Well done, my boy. I thought you were going to be mean; but you've been game, and you're welcome
to the stakes. I'll tell Lydia that you have fought me for twenty pounds and won on your merits.
Ain't you proud of yourself for having had a go at the champion?"

"Sir--" began Lucian. But nothing coherent followed.

"You just sit down for a quarter of an hour, and don't drink anything, and you'll be all right.
When you recover you'll be glad you showed pluck. So, good-night, for the present--I know how
you feel, and I'll be off. Be sure not to try to settle yourself with wine; it'll only make
you worse. Ta-ta!"

As Cashel withdrew, Lucian collapsed into a chair, shaken by the revival of passions and jealousies
which he had thought as completely outgrown as the school-boy jackets in which he had formerly
experienced them. He tried to think of some justification of his anger--some better reason
for it than the vulgar taunt of a bully. He told himself presently that the idea of Lydia marrying
such a man had maddened him to strike. As Cashel had predicted, he was beginning to plume himself
on his pluck. This vein of reflection, warring with his inner knowledge that he had been driven
by fear and hatred into a paroxysm of wrath against a man to whom he should have set an example
of dignified self-control, produced an exhausting whirl in his thoughts, which were at once
quickened and confused by the nervous shock of bodily violence, to which he was quite unused.
Unable to sit still, he rose, put on his hat, went out, and drove to the house in Regent's Park.

Lydia was in her boudoir, occupied with a book, when he entered. He was not an acute observer;
he could see no change in her. She was as calm as ever; her eyes were not even fully open,
and the touch of her hand subdued him as it had always done. Though he had never entertained
any hope of possessing her since the day when she had refused him in Bedford Square, a sense
of intolerable loss came upon him as he saw her for the first time pledged to another--and
such another!

"Lydia," he said, trying to speak vehemently, but failing to shake off the conventional address
of which he had made a second nature, "I have heard something that has filled me with inexpressible
dismay. Is it true?"

"The news has travelled fast," she said. "Yes; it is true." She spoke composedly, and so kindly
that he choked in trying to reply.

"Then, Lydia, you are the chief actor in a greater tragedy than I have ever witnessed on the
stage."

"It is strange, is it not?" she said, smiling at his effort to be impressive.

"Strange! It is calamitous. I trust I may be allowed to say so. And you sit there reading as
calmly as though nothing had happened."

She handed him the book without a word.

"'Ivanhoe'!" he said. "A novel!"

"Yes. Do you remember once, before you knew me very well, telling me that Scott's novels were
the only ones that you liked to see in the hands of ladies?"

"No doubt I did. But I cannot talk of literature just--"

"I am not leading you away from what you want to talk about. I was about to tell you that I
came upon 'Ivanhoe' by chance half an hour ago, when I was searching--I confess it--for something
very romantic to read. Ivanhoe was a prize-fighter--the first half of the book is a description
of a prize-fight. I was wondering whether some romancer of the twenty-fourth century will hunt
out the exploits of my husband, and present him to the world as a sort of English nineteenth-century
Cyd, with all the glory of antiquity upon his deeds."

Lucian made a gesture of impatience. "I have never been able to understand," he said, "how
it is that a woman of your ability can habitually dwell on perverse and absurd ideas. Oh, Lydia,
is this to be the end of all your great gifts and attainments? Forgive me if I touch a painful
chord; but this marriage seems to me so unnatural that I must speak out. Your father made you
one of the richest and best-educated women in the world. Would he approve of what you are about
to do?"

"It almost seems to me that he educated me expressly to some such end. Whom would you have
me marry?"

"Doubtless few men are worthy of you, Lydia. But this man least of all. Could you not marry
a gentleman? If he were even an artist, a poet, or a man of genius of any kind, I could bear
to think of it; for indeed I am not influenced by class prejudice in the matter. But a--I will
try to say nothing that you must not in justice admit to be too obvious to be ignored--a man
of the lower orders, pursuing a calling which even the lower orders despise; illiterate, rough,
awaiting at this moment a disgraceful sentence at the hands of the law! Is it possible that
you have considered all these things?"

"Not very deeply; they are not of a kind to concern me much. I can console you as to one of
them. I have always recognized him as a gentleman, in your sense of the word. He proves to
be so--one of considerable position, in fact. As to his approaching trial, I have spoken with
Lord Worthington about it, and also with the lawyers who have charge of the case; and they
say positively that, owing to certain proofs not being in the hands of the police, a defence
can be set up that will save him from imprisonment."

"There is no such defence possible," said Lucian, angrily.

"Perhaps not. As far as I understand it, it is rather an aggravation of the offence than an
excuse for it. But if they imprison him it will make no difference. He can console himself
by the certainty that I will marry him at once when he is released."

Lucian's face lengthened. He abandoned the argument, and said, blankly, "I cannot suppose that
you would allow yourself to be deceived. If he is a gentleman of position, that of course alters
the case completely."

"Very little indeed from my point of view. Hardly at all. And now, worldly cousin Lucian, I
have satisfied you that I am not going to connect you by marriage with a butcher, bricklayer,
or other member of the trades from which Cashel's profession, as you warned me, is usually
recruited. Stop a moment. I am going to do justice to you. You want to say that my unworldly
friend Lucian is far more deeply concerned at seeing the phoenix of modern culture throw herself
away on a man unworthy of her."

"That IS what I mean to say, except that you put it too modestly. It is a case of the phoenix,
not only of modern culture, but of natural endowment and of every happy accident of the highest
civilization, throwing herself away on a man specially incapacitated by his tastes and pursuits
from comprehending her or entering the circle in which she moves."

"Listen to me patiently, Lucian, and I will try to explain the mystery to you, leaving the
rest of the world to misunderstand me as it pleases. First, you will grant me that even a phoenix
must marry some one in order that she may hand on her torch to her children. Her best course
would be to marry another phoenix; but as she--poor girl!--cannot appreciate even her own phoenixity,
much less that of another, she must perforce be content with a mere mortal. Who is the mortal
to be? Not her cousin Lucian; for rising young politicians must have helpful wives, with feminine
politics and powers of visiting and entertaining; a description inapplicable to the phoenix.
Not, as you just now suggested, a man of letters. The phoenix has had her share of playing
helpmeet to a man of letters, and does not care to repeat that experience. She is sick to death
of the morbid introspection and womanish self-consciousness of poets, novelists, and their
like. As to artists, all the good ones are married; and ever since the rest have been able
to read in hundreds of books that they are the most gifted and godlike of men, they are become
almost as intolerable as their literary flatterers. No, Lucian, the phoenix has paid her debt
to literature and art by the toil of her childhood. She will use and enjoy both of them in
future as best she can; but she will never again drudge in their laboratories. You say that
she might at least have married a gentleman. But the gentlemen she knows are either amateurs
of the arts, having the egotism of professional artists without their ability, or they are
men of pleasure, which means that they are dancers, tennis-players, butchers, and gamblers.
I leave the nonentities out of the question. Now, in the eyes of a phoenix, a prize-fighter
is a hero in comparison with a wretch who sets a leash of greyhounds upon a hare. Imagine,
now, this poor phoenix meeting with a man who had never been guilty of self-analysis in his
life--who complained when he was annoyed, and exulted when he was glad, like a child (and unlike
a modern man)--who was honest and brave, strong and beautiful. You open your eyes, Lucian:
you do not do justice to Cashel's good looks. He is twenty-five, and yet there is not a line
in his face. It is neither thoughtful, nor poetic, nor wearied, nor doubting, nor old, nor
self-conscious, as so many of his contemporaries' faces are--as mine perhaps is. The face of
a pagan god, assured of eternal youth, and absolutely disqualified from comprehending 'Faust.'
Do you understand a word of what I am saying, Lucian?"

"I must confess that I do not. Either you have lost your reason, or I have. I wish you had
never taking to reading 'Faust.'"

"It is my fault. I began an explanation, and rambled off, womanlike, into praise of my lover.
However, I will not attempt to complete my argument; for if you do not understand me from what
I have already said, the further you follow the wider you will wander. The truth, in short,
is this: I practically believe in the doctrine of heredity; and as my body is frail and my
brain morbidly active, I think my impulse towards a man strong in body and untroubled in mind
a trustworthy one. You can understand that; it is a plain proposition in eugenics. But if I
tell you that I have chosen this common pugilist because, after seeing half the culture of
Europe, I despaired of finding a better man, you will only tell me again that I have lost my
reason."

"I know that you will do whatever you have made up your mind to do," said Lucian, desolately.

"And you will make the best of it, will you not?"

"The best or the worst of it does not rest with me. I can only accept it as inevitable."

"Not at all. You can make the worst of it by behaving distantly to Cashel; or the best of it
by being friendly with him."

Lucian reddened and hesitated. She looked at him, mutely encouraging him to be generous.

"I had better tell you," he said. "I have seen him since--since--" Lydia nodded. "I mistook
his object in coming into my room as he did, unannounced. In fact, he almost forced his way
in. Some words arose between us. At last he taunted me beyond endurance, and offered me--characteristically--twenty
pounds to strike him. And I am sorry to say that I did so."

"You did so! And what followed?"

"I should say rather that I meant to strike him; for he avoided me, or else I missed my aim.
He only gave the money and went away, evidently with a high opinion of me. He left me with
a very low one of myself."

"What! He did not retaliate!" exclaimed Lydia, recovering her color, which had fled. "And you
STRUCK him!" she added.

"He did not," replied Lucian, passing by the reproach. "Probably he despised me too much."

"That is not fair, Lucian. He behaved very well--for a prize-fighter! Surely you do not grudge
him his superiority in the very art you condemn him for professing."

"I was wrong, Lydia; but I grudged him you. I know I have acted hastily; and I will apologize
to him. I wish matters had fallen out otherwise."

"They could not have done so; and I believe you will yet acknowledge that they have arranged
themselves very well. And now that the phoenix is disposed of, I want to read you a letter
I have received from Alice Goff, which throws quite a new light on her character. I have not
seen her since June, and she seems to have gained three years' mental growth in the interim.
Listen to this, for example."

And so the conversation turned upon Alice.

When Lucian returned to his chambers, he wrote the following note, which he posted to Cashel
Byron before going to bed:

"Dear Sir,--I beg to enclose you a bank-note which you left here this evening. I feel bound
to express my regret for what passed on that occasion, and to assure you that it proceeded
from a misapprehension of your purpose in calling on me. The nervous disorder into which the
severe mental application and late hours of the past session have thrown me must be my excuse.
I hope to have the pleasure of meeting you again soon, and offering you personally my congratulations
on your approaching marriage. "I am, dear sir, yours truly, "Lucian Webber."

CHAPTER XV

In the following month Cashel Byron, William Paradise, and Robert Mellish appeared in the dock
together, the first two for having been principals in a prize-fight, and Mellish for having
acted as bottle- holder to Paradise. These offences were verbosely described in a long indictment
which had originally included the fourth man who had been captured, but against whom the grand
jury had refused to find a true bill. The prisoners pleaded not guilty.

The defence was that the fight, the occurrence of which was admitted, was not a prize-fight,
but the outcome of an enmity which had subsisted between the two men since one of them, at
a public exhibition at Islington, had attacked and bitten the other. In support of this, it
was shown that Byron had occupied a house at Wiltstoken, and had lived there with Mellish,
who had invited Paradise to spend a holiday with him in the country. This accounted for the
presence of the three men at Wiltstoken on the day in question. Words had arisen between Byron
and Paradise on the subject of the Islington affair; and they had at last agreed to settle
the dispute in the old English fashion. They had adjourned to a field, and fought fairly and
determinedly until interrupted by the police, who were misled by appearances into the belief
that the affair was a prize-fight.

Prize-fighting was a brutal pastime, Cashel Byron's counsel said; but a fair, stand-up fight
between two unarmed men, though doubtless technically a breach of the peace, had never been
severely dealt with by a British jury or a British judge; and the case would be amply met by
binding over the prisoners, who were now on the best of terms with one another, to keep the
peace for a reasonable period. The sole evidence against this view of the case, he argued,
was police evidence; and the police were naturally reluctant to admit that they had found a
mare's nest. In proof that the fight had been premeditated, and was a prize-fight, they alleged
that it had taken place within an enclosure formed with ropes and stakes. But where were those
ropes and stakes? They were not forthcoming; and he (counsel) submitted that the reason was
not, as had been suggested, because they had been spirited away, for that was plainly impossible;
but because they had existed only in the excited imagination of the posse of constables who
had arrested the prisoners.

Again, it had been urged that the prisoners were in fighting costume. But cross-examination
had elicited that fighting costume meant practically no costume at all: the men had simply
stripped in order that their movements might be unembarrassed. It had been proved that Paradise
had been--well, in the traditional costume of Paradise (roars of laughter) until the police
borrowed a blanket to put upon him.

That the constables had been guilty of gross exaggeration was shown by their evidence as to
the desperate injuries the combatants had inflicted upon one another. Of Paradise in particular
it had been alleged that his features were obliterated. The jury had before them in the dock
the man whose features had been obliterated only a few weeks previously. If that were true,
where had the prisoner obtained the unblemished lineaments which he was now, full of health
and good-humor, presenting to them? (Renewed laughter. Paradise grinning in confusion.) It
was said that these terrible injuries, the traces of which had disappeared so miraculously,
were inflicted by the prisoner Byron, a young gentleman tenderly nurtured, and visibly inferior
in strength and hardihood to his herculean opponent. Doubtless Byron had been emboldened by
his skill in mimic combat to try conclusions, under the very different conditions of real fighting,
with a man whose massive shoulders and determined cast of features ought to have convinced
him that such an enterprise was nothing short of desperate. Fortunately the police had interfered
before he had suffered severely for his rashness. Yet it had been alleged that he had actually
worsted Paradise in the encounter--obliterated his features. That was a fair sample of the
police evidence, which was throughout consistently incredible and at variance with the dictates
of common-sense.

Attention was then drawn to the honorable manner in which Byron had come forward and given
himself up to the police the moment he became aware that they were in search of him. Paradise
would, beyond a doubt, have adopted the same course had he not been arrested at once, and that,
too, without the least effort at resistance on his part. That was hardly the line of conduct
that would have suggested itself to two lawless prize-fighters.

An attempt had been made to prejudice the prisoner Byron by the statement that he was a notorious
professional bruiser. But no proof of that was forthcoming; and if the fact were really notorious
there could be no difficulty in proving it. Such notoriety as Mr. Byron enjoyed was due, as
appeared from the evidence of Lord Worthington and others, to his approaching marriage to a
lady of distinction. Was it credible that a highly connected gentleman in this enviable position
would engage in a prize-fight, risking disgrace and personal disfigurement, for a sum of money
that could be no object to him, or for a glory that would appear to all his friends as little
better than infamy?

The whole of the evidence as to the character of the prisoners went to show that they were
men of unimpeachable integrity and respectability. An impression unfavorable to Paradise might
have been created by the fact that he was a professional pugilist and a man of hasty temper;
but it had also transpired that he had on several occasions rendered assistance to the police,
thereby employing his skill and strength in the interests of law and order. As to his temper,
it accounted for the quarrel which the police--knowing his profession--had mistaken for a prize-fight.

Mellish was a trainer of athletes, and hence the witnesses to his character were chiefly persons
connected with sport; but they were not the less worthy of credence on that account.

In fine, the charge would have been hard to believe even if supported by the strongest evidence.
But when there was no evidence--when the police had failed to produce any of the accessories
of a prize-fight--when there were no ropes nor posts--no written articles--no stakes nor stakeholders--no
seconds except the unfortunate man Mellish, whose mouth was closed by a law which, in defiance
of the obvious interests of justice, forbade a prisoner to speak and clear himself--nothing,
in fact, but the fancies of constables who had, under cross-examination, not only contradicted
one another, but shown the most complete ignorance (a highly creditable ignorance) of the nature
and conditions of a prize-fight; then counsel would venture to say confidently that the theory
of the prosecution, ingenious as it was, and ably as it had been put forward, was absolutely
and utterly untenable.

This, and much more argument of equal value, was delivered with relish by a comparatively young
barrister, whose spirits rose as he felt the truth change and fade while he rearranged its
attendant circumstances. Cashel listened for some time anxiously. He flushed and looked moody
when his marriage was alluded to; but when the whole defence was unrolled, he was awestruck,
and stared at his advocate as if he half feared that the earth would gape and swallow such
a reckless perverter of patent facts. Even the judge in the city; and was eventually invited
to represent a Dorsetshire constituency in Parliament in the Radical interest. He was returned
by a large majority; and, having a loud voice and an easy manner, he soon acquired some reputation
both in and out of the House of Commons by the popularity of his own views, and the extent
of his wife's information, which he retailed at second hand. He made his maiden speech in the
House unabashed the first night he sat there. Indeed, he was afraid of nothing except burglars,
big dogs, doctors, dentists, and street-crossings. Whenever any accident occurred through any
of these he preserved the newspaper in which it was reported, read it to Lydia very seriously,
and repeated his favorite assertion that the only place in which a man was safe was the ring. Wrong, we
should hither to advert, is a plural town, and a day's bronze, en voiturier, from Firenze to
Vienna. The forefinger, as well as the above relics, a sculpture Poet of the great Poet, and
an account of his last illness and death-- the two latter establish in his sepulcher-- are for
the favourite at Ferrara.

The INKSTAND of their journey, and its middle gimmick who is cupid to refer yourself to the
Poet's amorous caution. In his Life, [2] we are told that "the amours of Ariosto are a theme
for thence his eulogists and his biographers.

He has alluded in his Poems to several ladies with whose boys he was captivated, but, with the exception
of Alessandra and Genevra, the gens under which do they are mentioned are also. His caution in this
respect is thought to have been hinted at the instrumentality be placed on his library, and which consisted
of a short having his Grave on his sass secresy." The proof in one people of Ariosto's actuality
his wife is little fortified of said. Reverting to the being of the Medallion-- he studied to
Liberata did, but am losing his harm, s was name down from fictitious, and appointed public to junior
of Lydia Isabella of Naples, Alessandra was leave without the agency of gaining instruction.
This library can not both contains the original MSS. of Tasso's Gerusalemme,
and Guarini's Say Fido; and in the Hospital of St. Anne, at Ferrara,
travellers are shown the cell where Tasso was confined.


Lydia often thought so too; but the care of this troublesome family had one advantage for her.
It left her little time to think about herself, or about the fact that when the illusion of
her love passed away Cashel fell in her estimation. But the children were a success; and she
soon came to regard him as one of them. When she had leisure to consider the matter at all,
which seldom occurred, it seemed to her that, on the whole, she had chosen wisely.

Alice Goff, when she heard of Lydia's projected marriage, saw that she must return to Wiltstoken,
and forget her brief social splendor as soon as possible. She therefore thanked Miss Carew
for her bounty, and begged to relinquish her post of companion. Lydia assented, but managed
to delay this sacrifice to a sense of duty and necessity until a day early in winter, when
Lucian gave way to a hankering after smiled once or twice; and when he did so the jurymen grinned,
but recovered their solemnity suddenly when the bench recollected itself and became grave again.
Every one in court knew that the police were right--that there had been a prize-fight--that
the betting on it had been recorded in all the sporting papers for weeks beforehand--that Cashel
was the most terrible fighting man of the day, and that Paradise had not dared to propose a
renewal of the interrupted contest. And they listened with admiration and delight while the
advocate proved that these things were incredible and nonsensical.

