"How now, knave?" said the knight; "thou art too well trained, surely, to take up the chase
without orders." A minute more showed them Phoebe Mayflower approaching, her light pace so
little impeded by the burden which she bore, that she joined her master and young mistress
just as they arrived at the keeper's hut, which was the boundary of their journey. Bevis, who
had shot a-head to pay his compliments to Sir Henry his master, had returned again to his immediate
duty, the escorting Phoebe and her cargo of provisions. The whole party stood presently assembled
before the door of the keeper's hut.

In better times, a substantial stone habitation, fit for the yeoman-keeper of a royal walk,
had adorned this place. A fair spring gushed out near the spot, and once traversed yards and
courts, attached to well-built and convenient kennels and mews. But in some of the skirmishes
which were common during the civil wars, this little silvan dwelling had been attacked and
defended, stormed and burnt. A neighbouring squire, of the Parliament side of the question,
took advantage of Sir Henry Lee's absence, who was then in Charles's camp, and of the decay
of the royal cause, and had, without scruple, carried off the hewn stones, and such building
materials as the fire left unconsumed, and repaired his own manor-house with them. The yeoman-keeper,
therefore, our friend Joceline, had constructed, for his own accommodation, and that of the
old woman he called his dame, a wattled hut, such as his own labour, with that of a neighbour
or two, had erected in the course of a few days. The walls were plastered with clay, white-washed,
and covered with vines and other creeping plants; the roof was neatly thatched, and the whole,
though merely a hut, had, by the neat-handed Joliffe, been so arranged as not to disgrace the
condition of the dweller.

The knight advanced to the entrance; but the ingenuity of the architect, for want of a better
lock to the door, which itself was but of wattles curiously twisted, had contrived a mode of
securing the latch on the inside with a pin, which prevented it from rising; and in this manner
it was at present fastened. Conceiving that this was some precaution of Joliffe's old housekeeper,
of whose deafness they were all aware, Sir Henry raised his voice to demand admittance, but
in vain. Irritated at this delay, he pressed the door at once with foot and hand, in a way
which the frail barrier was unable to resist; it gave way accordingly, and the knight thus
forcibly entered the kitchen, or outward apartment, of his servant. In the midst of the floor,
and with a posture which indicated embarrassment, stood a youthful stranger, in a riding-suit.

"This may be my last act of authority here," said the knight, seizing the stranger by the collar,
"but I am still Ranger of Woodstock for this night at least--Who, or what art thou?"

The stranger dropped the riding-mantle in which his face was muffled, and at the same time
fell on one knee.

"Your poor kinsman, Markham Everard," he said, "who came hither for your sake, although he
fears you will scarce make him welcome for his own."

Sir Henry started back, but recovered himself in an instant, as one who recollected that he
had a part of dignity to perform. He stood erect, therefore, and replied, with considerable
assumption of stately ceremony:

"Fair kinsman, it pleases me that you are come to Woodstock upon the very first night that,
for many years which have passed, is likely to promise you a worthy or a welcome reception."

"Now God grant it be so, that I rightly hear and duly understand you," said the young man;
while Alice, though she was silent, kept her looks fixed on her father's face, as if desirous
to know whether his meaning was kind towards his nephew, which her knowledge of his character
inclined her greatly to doubt.

The knight meanwhile darted a sardonic look, first on his nephew, then on his daughter, and
proceeded--"I need not, I presume, inform Mr. Markham Everard, that it cannot be our purpose
to entertain him, or even to offer him a seat in this poor hut."

"I will attend you most willingly to the Lodge," said the young gentleman. "I had, indeed,
judged you were already there for the evening, and feared to intrude upon you. But if you would
permit me, my dearest uncle, to escort my kinswoman and you back to the Lodge, believe me,
amongst all which you have so often done of good and kind, you never conferred benefit that
will be so dearly prized."

"You mistake me greatly, Mr. Markham Everard," replied the knight. "It is not our purpose to
return to the Lodge to-night, nor, by Our Lady, to-morrow neither. I meant but to intimate
to you in all courtesy, that at Woodstock Lodge you will find those for whom you are fitting
society, and who, doubtless, will afford you a willing welcome; which I, sir, in this my present
retreat, do not presume to offer to a person of your consequence."

"For Heaven's sake," said the young man, turning to Alice, "tell me how I am to understand
language so misterious."

Alice, to prevent his increasing the restrained anger of her father, compelled herself to answer,
though it was with difficulty, "We are expelled from the Lodge by soldiers."

"Expelled--by soldiers!" exclaimed Everard, in surprise--"there is no legal warrant for this."

"None at all," answered the knight, in the same tone of cutting irony which he had all along
used, "and yet as lawful a warrant, as for aught that has been wrought in England this twelvemonth
and more. You are, I think, or were, an Inns-of-Court-man--marry, sir, your enjoyment of your
profession is like that lease which a prodigal wishes to have of a wealthy widow. You have
already survived the law which you studied, and its expiry doubtless has not been without a
legacy--some decent pickings, some merciful increases, as the phrase goes. You have deserved
it two ways--you wore buff and bandalier, as well as wielded pen and ink--I have not heard
if you held forth too."

"Think of me and speak of me as harshly as you will, sir," said Everard, submissively. "I have
but in this evil time, guided myself by my conscience, and my father's commands."

"O, and you talk of conscience," said the old knight, "I must have mine eye upon you, as Hamlet
says. Never yet did Puritan cheat so grossly as when he was appealing to his conscience; and
as for thy father"--

He was about to proceed in a tone of the same invective, when the young man interrupted him,
by saying, in a firm tone, "Sir Henry Lee, you have ever been thought noble--Say of me what
you will, but speak not of my father what the ear of a son should not endure, and which yet
his arm cannot resent. To do me such wrong is to insult an unarmed man, or to beat a captive."

Sir Henry paused, as if struck by the remark. "Thou hast spoken truth in that, Mark, wert thou
the blackest Puritan whom hell ever vomited, to distract an unhappy country."

"Be that as you will to think it," replied Everard; "but let me not leave you to the shelter
of this wretched hovel. The night is drawing to storm--let me but conduct you to the Lodge,
and expel those intruders, who can, as yet at least, have no warrant for what they do. I will
not linger a moment behind them, save just to deliver my father's message.--Grant me but this
much, for the love you once bore me!"

"Yes, Mark," answered his uncle, firmly, but sorrowfully, "thou speakest truth--I did love
thee once. The bright-haired boy whom I taught to ride, to shoot, to hunt--whose hours of happiness
were spent with me, wherever those of graver labours were employed--I did love that boy--ay,
and I am weak enough to love even the memory of what he was.--But he is gone, Mark--he is gone;
and in his room I only behold an avowed and determined rebel to his religion and to his king--a
rebel more detestable on account of his success, the more infamous through the plundered wealth
with which he hopes to gild his villany.--But I am poor, thou think'st, and should hold my
peace, lest men say, 'Speak, sirrah, when you should.'--Know, however, that, indigent and plundered
as I am, I feel myself dishonoured in holding even but this much talk with the tool of usurping
rebels.--Go to the Lodge, if thou wilt--yonder lies the way--but think not that, to regain
my dwelling there, or all the wealth I ever possessed in my wealthiest days, I would accompany
thee three steps on the greensward. If I must be thy companion, it shall be only when thy red-coats
have tied my hands behind me, and bound my legs beneath my horse's belly. Thou mayst be my
fellow traveller then, I grant thee, if thou wilt, but not sooner."

Alice, who suffered cruelly during this dialogue, and was well aware that farther argument
would only kindle the knight's resentment still more highly, ventured at last, in her anxiety,
to make a sign to her cousin to break off the interview, and to retire, since her father commanded
his absence in a manner so peremptory. Unhappily, she was observed by Sir Henry, who, concluding
that what he saw was evidence of a private understanding betwixt the cousins, his wrath acquired
new fuel, and it required the utmost exertion of self-command, and recollection of all that
was due to his own dignity, to enable him to veil his real fury under the same ironical manner
which he had adopted at the beginning of this angry interview.

"If thou art afraid," he said, "to trace our forest glades by night, respected stranger, to
whom I am perhaps bound to do honour as my successor in the charge of these walks, here seems
to be a modest damsel, who will be most willing to wait on thee, and be thy bow-bearer.--Only,
for her mother's sake, let there pass some slight form of marriage between you--Ye need no
license or priest in these happy days, but may be buckled like beggars in a ditch, with a hedge
for a church-roof, and a tinker for a priest. I crave pardon of you for making such an officious
and simple request--perhaps you are a ranter--or one of the family of Love, or hold marriage
rites as unnecessary, as Knipperdoling, or Jack of Leyden?"

"For mercy's sake, forbear such dreadful jesting, my father! and do you, Markham, begone, in
God's name, and leave us to our fate--your presence makes my father rave."

"Jesting!" said Sir Henry, "I was never more serious--Raving!--I was never more composed--I
could never brook that falsehood should approach me--I would no more bear by my side a dishonoured
daughter than a dishonoured sword; and this unhappy day hath shown that both can fail."

"Sir Henry," said young Everard, "load not your soul with a heavy crime, which be assured you
do, in treating your daughter thus unjustly. It is long now since you denied her to me, when
we were poor and you were powerful. I acquiesced in your prohibition of all suit and intercourse.
God knoweth what I suffered--but I acquiesced. Neither is it to renew my suit that I now come
hither, and have, I do acknowledge, sought speech of her--not for her own sake only, but for
yours also. Destruction hovers over you, ready to close her pinions to stoop, and her talons
to clutch--Yes, sir, look contemptuous as you will, such is the case; and it is to protect
both you and her that I am here."

"You refuse then my free gift," said Sir Henry Lee; "or perhaps you think it loaded with too
hard conditions?"

"Shame, shame on you, Sir Henry;" said Everard, waxing warm in his turn; "have your political
prejudices so utterly warped every feeling of a father, that you can speak with bitter mockery
and scorn of what concerns your own daughter's honour?--Hold up your head, fair Alice, and
tell your father he has forgotten nature in his fantastic spirit of loyalty.--Know, Sir Henry,
that though I would prefer your daughter's hand to every blessing which Heaven could bestow
on me, I would not accept it--my conscience would not permit me to do so, when I knew it must
withdraw her from her duty to you."

"Your conscience is over-scrupulous, young man;--carry it to some dissenting rabbi, and he
who takes all that comes to net, will teach thee it is sinning against our mercies to refuse
any good thing that is freely offered to us."

"When it is freely offered, and kindly offered--not when the offer is made in irony and insult--Fare
thee well, Alice--if aught could make me desire to profit by thy father's wild wish to cast
thee from him in a moment of unworthy suspicion, it would be that while indulging in such sentiments,
Sir Henry Lee is tyrannically oppressing the creature, who of all others is most dependent
on his kindness--who of all others will most feel his severity, and whom, of all others, he
is most bound to cherish and support."

"Do not fear for me, Mr. Everard," exclaimed Alice, aroused from her timidity by a dread of
the consequences not unlikely to ensue, where civil war sets relations, as well as fellow-citizens,
in opposition to each other.--"Oh, begone, I conjure you, begone! Nothing stands betwixt me
and my father's kindness, but these unhappy family divisions--but your ill-timed presence here--for
Heaven's sake, leave us!"

"So, mistress!" answered the hot old cavalier, "you play lady paramount already; and who but
you!--you would dictate to our train, I warrant, like Goneril and Regan! But I tell thee, no
man shall leave my house--and, humble as it is, this is now my house--while he has aught to
say to me that is to be spoken, as this young man now speaks, with a bent brow and a lofty
tone.--Speak out, sir, and say your worst!"

"Fear not my temper, Mrs. Alice," said Everard, with equal firmness and placidity of manner;
"and you, Sir Henry, do not think that if I speak firmly, I mean therefore to speak in anger,
or officiously. You have taxed me with much, and, were I guided by the wild spirit of romantic
chivalry, much which, even from so near a relative, I ought not, as being by birth, and in
the world's estimation, a gentleman, to pass over without reply. Is it your pleasure to give
me patient hearing?"

"If you stand on your defence," answered the stout old knight, "God forbid that you should
not challenge a patient hearing--ay, though your pleading were two parts disloyalty and one
blasphemy--Only, be brief-- this has already lasted but too long."

"I will, Sir Henry," replied the young man; "yet it is hard to crowd into a few sentences,
the defence of a life which, though short, has been a busy one--too busy, your indignant gesture
would assert. But I deny it; I have drawn my sword neither hastily, nor without due consideration,
for a people whose rights have been trampled on, and whose consciences have been oppressed--Frown
not, sir--such is not your view of the contest, but such is mine. For my religious principles,
at which you have scoffed, believe me, that though they depend not on set forms, they are no
less sincere than your own, and thus far purer--excuse the word--that they are unmingled with
the blood-thirsty dictates of a barbarous age, which you and others have called the code of
chivalrous honour. Not my own natural disposition, but the better doctrine which my creed has
taught, enables me to bear your harsh revilings without answering in a similar tone of wrath
and reproach. You may carry insult to extremity against me at your pleasure--not on account
of our relationship alone, but because I am bound in charity to endure it. This, Sir Henry,
is much from one of our house. But, with forbearance far more than this requires, I can refuse
at your hands the gift, which, most of all things under heaven, I should desire to obtain,
because duty calls upon her to sustain and comfort you, and because it were sin to permit you,
in your blindness, to spurn your comforter from your side.--Farewell, sir--not in anger, but
in pity--We may meet in a better time, when your heart and your principles shall master the
unhappy prejudices by which they are now overclouded.--Farewell-- farewell, Alice!"

The last words were repeated twice, and in a tone of feeling and passionate grief, which differed
utterly from the steady and almost severe tone in which he had addressed Sir Henry Lee. He
turned and left the hut so soon as he had uttered these last words; and, as if ashamed of the
tenderness which had mingled with his accents, the young commonwealth's-man turned and walked
sternly and resolvedly forth into the moonlight, which now was spreading its broad light and
autumnal shadows over the woodland.

So soon as he departed, Alice, who had been during the whole scene in the utmost terror that
her father might have been hurried, by his natural heat of temper, from violence of language
into violence of action, sunk down upon a settle twisted out of willow boughs, like most of
Joceline's few moveables, and endeavoured to conceal the tears which accompanied the thanks
she rendered in broken accents to Heaven, that, notwithstanding the near alliance and relationship
of the parties, some fatal deed had not closed an interview so perilous and so angry. Phoebe
Mayflower blubbered heartily for company, though she understood but little of what had passed;
just, indeed, enough to enable her afterwards to report to some half-dozen particular friends,
that her old master, Sir Henry, had been perilous angry, and almost fought with young Master
Everard, because he had wellnigh carried away her young mistress.--"And what could he have
done better?" said Phoebe, "seeing the old man had nothing left either for Mrs. Alice or himself;
and as for Mr. Mark Everard and our young lady, oh! they had spoken such loving things to each
other as are not to be found in the history of Argalus and Parthenia, who, as the story-book
tells, were the truest pair of lovers in all Arcadia, and Oxfordshire to boot."

Old Goody Jellycot had popped her scarlet hood into the kitchen more than once while the scene
was proceeding; but, as the worthy dame was parcel blind and more than parcel deaf, knowledge
was excluded by two principal entrances; and though she comprehended, by a sort of general
instinct, that the gentlefolk were at high words, yet why they chose Joceline's hut for the
scene of their dispute was as great a mystery as the subject of the quarrel.

But what was the state of the old cavalier's mood, thus contradicted, as his most darling principles
had been, by the last words of his departing nephew? The truth is, that he was less thoroughly
moved than his daughter expected; and in all probability his nephew's bold defence of his religious
and political opinions rather pacified than aggravated his displeasure. Although sufficiently
impatient of contradiction, still evasion and subterfuge were more alien to the blunt old Ranger's
nature than manly vindication and direct opposition; and he was wont to say, that he ever loved
the buck best who stood boldest at bay. He graced his nephew's departure, however, with a quotation
from Shakspeare, whom, as many others do, he was wont to quote from a sort of habit and respect,
as a favourite of his unfortunate master, without having either much real taste for his works,
or great skill in applying the passages which he retained on his memory.

"Mark," he said, "mark this, Alice--the devil can quote Scripture for his purpose. Why, this
young fanatic cousin of thine, with no more beard than I have seen on a clown playing Maid
Marion on May-day, when the village barber had shaved him in too great a hurry, shall match
any bearded Presbyterian or Independent of them all, in laying down his doctrines and his uses,
and bethumping us with his texts and his homilies. I would worthy and learned Doctor Rochecliffe
had been here, with his battery ready-mounted from the Vulgate, and the Septuagint, and what
not--he would have battered the presbyterian spirit out of him with a wanion. However, I am
glad the young man is no sneaker; for, were a man of the devil's opinion in religion, and of
Old Noll's in politics, he were better open on it full cry, than deceive you by hunting counter,
or running a false scent. Come--wipe thine eyes--the fray is over, and not like to be stirred
again soon, I trust."

Encouraged by these words, Alice rose, and, bewildered as she was, endeavoured to superintend
the arrangements for their meal and their repose in their new habitation. But her tears fell
so fast, they marred her counterfeited diligence; and it was well for her that Phoebe, though
too ignorant and too simple to comprehend the extent of her distress, could afford her material
assistance, in lack of mere sympathy.

With great readiness and address, the damsel set about every thing that was requisite for preparing
the supper and the beds; now screaming into Dame Jellycot's ear, now whispering into her mistress's,
and artfully managing, as if she was merely the agent, under Alice's orders. When the cold
viands were set forth, Sir Henry Lee kindly pressed his daughter to take refreshment, as if
to make up, indirectly, for his previous harshness towards her; while he himself, like an experienced
campaigner, showed, that neither the mortifications nor brawls of the day, nor the thoughts
of what was to come to-morrow, could diminish his appetite for supper, which was his favourite
meal. He ate up two-thirds of the capon, and, devoting the first bumper to the happy restoration
of Charles, second of the name, he finished a quart of wine; for he belonged to a school accustomed
to feed the flame of their loyalty with copious brimmers. He even sang a verse of "The King
shall enjoy his own again," in which Phoebe, half-sobbing, and Dame Jellycot, screaming against
time and tune, were contented to lend their aid, to cover Mistress Alice's silence.

At length the jovial knight betook himself to his rest on the keeper's straw pallet, in a recess
adjoining to the kitchen, and, unaffected by his change of dwelling, slept fast and deep. Alice
had less quiet rest in old Goody Jellycot's wicker couch, in the inner apartment; while the
dame and Phoebe slept on a mattress, stuffed with dry leaves, in the same chamber, soundly
as those whose daily toil gains their daily bread, and, whom morning calls up only to renew
the toils of yesterday.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE FIFTH.

  My tongue pads slowly under this new language,
  And starts and stumbles at these uncouth phrases.
  They may be great in worth and weight, but hang
  Upon the native glibness of my language
  Like Saul's plate-armour on the shepherd boy,
  Encumbering and not arming him.
                                      J. B.

As Markham Everard pursued his way towards the Lodge, through one of the long sweeping glades
which traversed the forest, varying in breadth, till the trees were now so close that the boughs
made darkness over his head, then receding farther to let in glimpses of the moon, and anon
opening yet wider into little meadows, or savannahs, on which the moonbeams lay in silvery
silence; as he thus proceeded on his lonely course, the various effects produced by that delicious
light on the oaks, whose dark leaves, gnarled branches, and massive trunks it gilded, more
or less partially, might have drawn the attention of a poet or a painter.

But if Everard thought of anything saving the painful scene in which he had just played his
part, and of which the result seemed the destruction of all his hopes, it was of the necessary
guard to be observed in his night-walk. The times were dangerous and unsettled; the roads full
of disbanded soldiers, and especially of royalists, who made their political opinions a pretext
for disturbing the country with marauding parties and robberies. Deer-stealers also, who are
ever a desperate banditti, had of late infested Woodstock Chase. In short, the dangers of the
place and period were such, that Markham Everard wore his loaded pistols at his belt, and carried
his drawn sword under his arm, that he might be prepared for whatever peril should cross his path.

He heard the bells of Woodstock Church ring curfew, just as he was crossing one of the little
meadows we have described, and they ceased as he entered an overshadowed and twilight part
of the path beyond. It was there that he heard some one whistling; and, as the sound became
clearer, it was plain the person was advancing towards him. This could hardly be a friend;
for the party to which he belonged rejected, generally speaking, all music, unless psalmody.
"If a man is merry, let him sing psalms," was a text which they were pleased to interpret as
literally and to as little purpose as they did some others; yet it was too continued a sound
to be a signal amongst night-walkers, and too light and cheerful to argue any purpose of concealment
on the part of the traveller, who presently exchanged his whistling for singing, and trolled
forth the following stanza to a jolly tune, with which the old cavaliers were wont to wake
the night owl:

  Hey for cavaliers! Ho for cavaliers!
  Pray for cavaliers!
    Rub a dub--rub a dub!
    Have at old Beelzebub--
    Oliver smokes for fear.

"I should know that voice," said Everard, uncocking the pistol which he had drawn from his
belt, but continuing to hold it in his hand. Then came another fragment:

  Hash them--slash them--
  All to pieces dash them.

"So ho!" cried Markham, "who goes there, and for whom?"

"For Church and King," answered a voice, which presently added, "No, d--n me--I mean against
Church and King, and for the people that are uppermost--I forget which they are."

"Roger Wildrake, as I guess?" said Everard.

"The same--Gentleman; of Squattlesea-mere, in the moist county of Lincoln."

"Wildrake!" said Markham--"Wildgoose you should be called. You have been moistening your own
throat to some purpose, and using it to gabble tunes very suitable to the times, to be sure!"

"Faith, the tune's a pretty tune enough, Mark, only out of fashion a little--the more's the pity."

"What could I expect," said Everard, "but to meet some ranting, drunken cavalier, as desperate
and dangerous as night and sack usually make them? What if I had rewarded your melody by a
ball in the gullet?"

"Why, there would have been a piper paid--that's all," said Wildrake. "But wherefore come you
this way now? I was about to seek you at the hut."

"I have been obliged to leave it--I will tell you the cause hereafter," replied Markham.

"What! the old play-hunting cavalier was cross, or Chloe was unkind?"

"Jest not, Wildrake--it is all over with me," said Everard.

"The devil it is," exclaimed Wildrake, "and you take it thus quietly!-- Zounds! let us back
together--I'll plead your cause for you--I know how to tickle up an old knight and a pretty
maiden--Let me alone for putting you rectus in curia, you canting rogue.--D--n me, Sir Henry
Lee, says I, your nephew is a piece of a Puritan--it won't deny--but I'll uphold him a gentleman
and a pretty fellow, for all that.--Madam, says I, you may think your cousin looks like a psalm-singing
weaver, in that bare felt, and with that rascally brown cloak; that band, which looks like
a baby's clout, and those loose boots, which have a whole calf-skin in each of them,--but let
him wear on the one side of his head a castor, with a plume befitting his quality; give him
a good Toledo by his side, with a broidered belt and an inlaid hilt, instead of the ton of
iron contained in that basket-hilted black Andrew Ferrara; put a few smart words in his mouth--and,
blood and wounds! madam, says I--"

"Prithee, truce with this nonsense, Wildrake," said Everard, "and tell me if you are sober
enough to hear a few words of sober reason?"

"Pshaw! man, I did but crack a brace of quarts with yonder puritanic, roundheaded soldiers,
up yonder at the town; and rat me but I passed myself for the best man of the party; twanged
my nose, and turned up my eyes, as I took my can--Pah! the very wine tasted of hypocrisy. I
think the rogue corporal smoked something at last--as for the common fellows, never stir, but
they asked me to say grace over another quart."

"This is just what I wished to speak with you about, Wildrake," said Markham--"You hold me,
I am sure, for your friend?"

"True as steel.--Chums at College and at Lincoln's Inn--we have been Nisus and Euryalus, Theseus
and Pirithous, Orestes and Pylades; and, to sum up the whole with a puritanic touch, David
and Jonathan, all in one breath. Not even politics, the wedge that rends families and friendships
asunder, as iron rives oak, have been able to split us."

"True," answered Markham: "and when you followed the King to Nottingham, and I enrolled under
Essex, we swore, at our parting, that whichever side was victorious, he of us who adhered to
it, should protect his less fortunate comrade."

"Surely, man, surely; and have you not protected me accordingly? Did you not save me from hanging?
and am I not indebted to you for the bread I eat?"

"I have but done that which, had the times been otherwise, you, my dear Wildrake, would, I
am sure, have done for me. But, as I said, that is just what I wished to speak to you about.
Why render the task of protecting you more difficult than it must necessarily be at any rate?
Why thrust thyself into the company of soldiers, or such like, where thou art sure to be warmed
into betraying thyself? Why come hollowing and whooping out cavalier ditties, like a drunken
trooper of Prince Rupert, or one of Wilmot's swaggering body-guards?"

"Because I may have been both one and t'other in my day, for aught that you know," replied
Wildrake. "But, oddsfish! is it necessary I should always be reminding you, that our obligation
of mutual protection, our league of offensive and defensive, as I may call it, was to be carried
into effect without reference to the politics or religion of the party protected, or the least
obligation on him to conform to those of his friend?"

"True," said Everard; "but with this most necessary qualification, that the party should submit
to such outward conformity to the times as should make it more easy and safe for his friend
to be of service to him. Now, you are perpetually breaking forth, to the hazard of your own
safety and my credit."

"I tell you, Mark, and I would tell your namesake the apostle, that you are hard on me. You
have practised sobriety and hypocrisy from your hanging sleeves till your Geneva cassock--from
the cradle to this day,--and it is a thing of nature to you; and you are surprised that a rough,
rattling, honest fellow, accustomed to speak truth all his life, and especially when he found
it at the bottom of a flask, cannot be so perfect a prig as thyself--Zooks! there is no equality
betwixt us--A trained diver might as well, because he can retain his breath for ten minutes
without inconvenience, upbraid a poor devil for being like to burst in twenty seconds, at the
bottom of ten fathoms water--And, after all, considering the guise is so new to me, I think
I bear myself indifferently well--try me!"

"Are there any more news from Worcester fight?" asked Everard, in a tone so serious that it
imposed on his companion, who replied in his genuine character--

"Worse!--d--n me, worse an hundred times than reported--totally broken. Noll hath certainly
sold himself to the devil, and his lease will have an end one day--that is all our present
comfort."

"What! and would this be your answer to the first red-coat who asked the question?" said Everard.
"Methinks you would find a speedy passport to the next corps de garde."

"Nay, nay," answered Wildrake, "I thought you asked me in your own person.--Lack-a-day! a great
mercy--a glorifying mercy--a crowning mercy--a vouchsafing--an uplifting--I profess the malignants
are scattered from Dan to Beersheba--smitten, hip and thigh, even until the going down of the sun!"

"Hear you aught of Colonel Thornhaugh's wounds?"

"He is dead," answered Wildrake, "that's one comfort--the roundheaded rascal!--Nay, hold! it
was but a trip of the tongue--I meant, the sweet godly youth."

"And hear you aught of the young man, King of Scotland, as they call him?" said Everard.

"Nothing but that he is hunted like a partridge on the mountains. May God deliver him, and
confound his enemies!--Zoons, Mark Everard, I can fool it no longer. Do you not remember, that
at the Lincoln's-Inn gambols--though you did not mingle much in them, I think--I used always
to play as well as any of them when it came to the action, but they could never get me to rehearse
conformably. It's the same at this day. I hear your voice, and I answer to it in the true tone
of my heart; but when I am in the company of your snuffling friends, you have seen me act my
part indifferent well."

"But indifferent, indeed," replied Everard; "however, there is little call on you to do aught,
save to be modest and silent. Speak little, and lay aside, if you can, your big oaths and swaggering
looks--set your hat even on your brows."

"Ay, that is the curse! I have been always noted for the jaunty manner in which I wear my castor--Hard
when a man's merits become his enemies!"

"You must remember you are my clerk."

"Secretary," answered Wildrake: "let it be secretary, if you love me."

"It must be clerk, and nothing else--plain clerk--and remember to be civil and obedient," replied
Everard.

"But you should not lay on your commands with so much ostentatious superiority, Master Markham
Everard. Remember, I am your senior of three years' standing. Confound me, if I know how to
take it!"

"Was ever such a fantastic wrong-head!--For my sake, if not for thine own, bend thy freakish
folly to listen to reason. Think that I have incurred both risk and shame on thy account."

"Nay, thou art a right good fellow, Mark," replied the cavalier; "and for thy sake I will do
much--but remember to cough, and cry hem! when thou seest me like to break bounds. And now,
tell me whither we are bound for the night."

"To Woodstock Lodge, to look after my uncle's property," answered Markham Everard: "I am informed
that soldiers have taken possession--Yet how could that be if thou foundest the party drinking
in Woodstock?"

"There was a kind of commissary or steward, or some such rogue, had gone down to the Lodge,"
replied Wildrake; "I had a peep at him."

"Indeed!" replied Everard.

"Ay, verily," said Wildrake, "to speak your own language. Why, as I passed through the park
in quest of you, scarce half an hour since, I saw a light in the Lodge--Step this way, you
will see it yourself."

"In the north-west angle?" returned Everard. "It is from a window in what they call Victor
Lee's apartment."

"Well," resumed Wildrake, "I had been long one of Lundsford's lads, and well used to patrolling
duty--So, rat me, says I, if I leave a light in my rear, without knowing what it means. Besides,
Mark, thou hadst said so much to me of thy pretty cousin, I thought I might as well have a
peep, if I could."

"Thoughtless, incorrigible man! to what dangers do you expose yourself and your friends, in
mere wantonness!--But go on."

"By this fair moonshine, I believe thou art jealous, Mark Everard!" replied his gay companion;
"there is no occasion; for, in any case, I, who was to see the lady, was steeled by honour
against the charms of my friend's Chloe--Then the lady was not to see me, so could make no
comparisons to thy disadvantage, thou knowest--Lastly, as it fell out, neither of us saw the
other at all."

"Of that I am well aware. Mrs. Alice left the Lodge long before sunset, and never returned.
What didst thou see to introduce with such preface?"

"Nay, no great matter," replied Wildrake; "only getting upon a sort of buttress, (for I can
climb like any cat that ever mewed in any gutter,) and holding on by the vines and creepers
which grew around, I obtained a station where I could see into the inside of that same parlour
thou spokest of just now."

"And what saw'st thou there?" once more demanded Everard.

"Nay, no great matter, as I said before," replied the cavalier; "for in these times it is no
new thing to see churls carousing in royal or noble chambers. I saw two rascallions engaged
in emptying a solemn stoup of strong waters, and dispatching a huge venison pasty, which greasy
mess, for their convenience, they had placed on a lady's work-table--One of them was trying
an air on a lute."

"The profane villains!" exclaimed Everard, "it was Alice's."

"Well said, comrade--I am glad your phlegm can be moved. I did but throw in these incidents
of the lute and the table, to try if it was possible to get a spark of human spirit out of
you, besanctified as you are."

"What like were the men?" said young Everard.

"The one a slouch-hatted, long-cloaked, sour-faced fanatic, like the rest of you, whom I took
to be the steward or commissary I heard spoken of in the town; the other was a short sturdy
fellow, with a wood-knife at his girdle, and a long quarterstaff lying beside him--a black-haired
knave, with white teeth and a merry countenance--one of the under-rangers or bow-bearers of
these walks, I fancy."

"They must have been Desborough's favourite, trusty Tomkins," said Everard, "and Joceline Joliffe,
the keeper. Tomkins is Desborough's right hand--an Independent, and hath pourings forth, as
he calls them. Some think that his gifts have the better of his grace. I have heard of his
abusing opportunities."

"They were improving them when I saw them," replied Wildrake, "and made the bottle smoke for
it--when, as the devil would have it, a stone, which had been dislodged from the crumbling
buttress, gave way under my weight. A clumsy fellow like thee would have been so long thinking
what was to be done, that he must needs have followed it before he could make up his mind;
but I, Mark, I hopped like a squirrel to an ivy twig, and stood fast--was wellnigh shot, though,
for the noise alarmed them both. They looked to the oriel, and saw me on the outside; the fanatic
fellow took out a pistol--as they have always such texts in readiness hanging beside the little
clasped Bible, thou know'st--the keeper seized his hunting-pole--I treated them both to a roar
and a grin--thou must know I can grimace like a baboon--I learned the trick from a French player,
who could twist his jaws into a pair of nut-crackers--and therewithal I dropped myself sweetly
on the grass, and ran off so trippingly, keeping the dark side of the wall as long as I could,
that I am wellnigh persuaded they thought I was their kinsman, the devil, come among them uncalled.
They were abominably startled."

"Thou art most fearfully rash, Wildrake," said his companion; "we are now bound for the house--what
if they should remember thee?"

"Why, it is no treason, is it? No one has paid for peeping since Tom of Coventry's days; and
if he came in for a reckoning, belike it was for a better treat than mine. But trust me, they
will no more know me, than a man who had only seen your friend Noll at a conventicle of saints,
would know the same Oliver on horseback, and charging with his lobster-tailed squadron; or
the same Noll cracking a jest and a bottle with wicked Waller the poet."

"Hush! not a word of Oliver, as thou dost value thyself and me. It is ill jesting with the
rock you may split on.--But here is the gate--we will disturb these honest gentlemen's recreations."

As he spoke, he applied the large and ponderous knocker to the hall-door. "Rat-tat-tat-too!"
said Wildrake; "there is a fine alarm to you cuckolds and round-heads." He then half-mimicked,
half-sung the march so called:--

  "Cuckolds, come dig, cuckolds, come dig;
  Round about cuckolds, come dance to my jig!"

"By Heaven! this passes Midsummer frenzy," said Everard, turning angrily to him.

"Not a bit, not a bit," replied Wildrake; "it is but a slight expectoration, just like what
one makes before beginning a long speech. I will be grave for an hour together, now I have
got that point of war out of my head."

As he spoke, steps were heard in the hall, and the wicket of the great door was partly opened,
but secured with a chain in case of accidents. The visage of Tomkins, and that of Joceline
beneath it, appeared at the chink, illuminated by the lamp which the latter held in his hand,
and Tomkins demanded the meaning of this alarm.

"I demand instant admittance!" said Everard. "Joliffe, you know me well?"

"I do, sir," replied Joceline, "and could admit you with all my heart; but, alas! sir, you
see I am not key-keeper--Here is the gentleman whose warrant I must walk by--The Lord help
me, seeing times are such as they be!"

"And when that gentleman, who I think may be Master Desborough's valet"--

"His honour's unworthy secretary, an it please you," interposed Tomkins; while Wildrake whispered
in Everard's ear; "I will be no longer secretary. Mark, thou wert quite right--the clerk must
be the more gentlemanly calling."

"And if you are Master Desborough's secretary, I presume you know me and my condition well
enough," said Everard, addressing the Independent, "not to hesitate to admit me and my attendant
to a night's quarters in the Lodge?"

"Surely not, surely not," said the Independent--"that is, if your worship thinks you would
be better accommodated here than up at the house of entertainment in the town, which men unprofitably
call Saint George's Inn. There is but confined accommodation here, your honour--and we have
been frayed out of our lives already by the visitation of Satan--albeit his fiery dart is now
quenched."

"This may be all well in its place, Sir Secretary," said Everard; "and you may find a corner
for it when you are next tempted to play the preacher. But I will take it for no apology for
keeping me here in the cold harvest wind; and if not presently received, and suitably too,
I will report you to your master for insolence in your office."

The secretary of Desborough did not dare offer farther opposition; for it is well known that
Desborough himself only held his consequence as a kinsman of Cromwell; and the Lord-General,
who was well nigh paramount already, was known to be strongly favourable both to the elder
and younger Everard. It is true, they were Presbyterians and he an Independent; and that though
sharing those feelings of correct morality and more devoted religious feeling, by which, with
few exceptions, the Parliamentarian party were distinguished, the Everards were not disposed
to carry these attributes to the extreme of enthusiasm, practised by so many others at the
time. Yet it was well known that whatever might be Cromwell's own religious creed, he was not
uniformly bounded by it in the choice of his favourites, but extended his countenance to those
who could serve him, even, although, according to the phrase of the time, they came out of
the darkness of Egypt. The character of the elder Everard stood very high for wisdom and sagacity;
besides, being of a good family and competent fortune, his adherence would lend a dignity to
any side he might espouse. Then his son had been a distinguished and successful soldier, remarkable
for the discipline he maintained among his men, the bravery which he showed in the time of
action, and the humanity with which he was always ready to qualify the consequences of victory.
Such men were not to be neglected, when many signs combined to show that the parties in the
state, who had successfully accomplished the deposition and death of the King, were speedily
to quarrel among themselves about the division of the spoils. The two Everards were therefore
much courted by Cromwell, and their influence with him was supposed to be so great, that trusty
Master Secretary Tomkins cared not to expose himself to risk, by contending with Colonel Everard
for such a trifle as a night's lodging.

Joceline was active on his side--more lights were obtained--more wood thrown on the fire--and
the two newly-arrived strangers were introduced into Victor Lee's parlour, as it was called,
from the picture over the chimney-piece, which we have already described. It was several minutes
ere Colonel Everard could recover his general stoicism of deportment, so strongly was he impressed
by finding himself in the apartment, under whose roof he had passed so many of the happiest
hours of his life. There was the cabinet, which he had seen opened with such feelings of delight
when Sir Henry Lee deigned to give him instructions in fishing, and to exhibit hooks and lines,
together with all the materials for making the artificial fly, then little known. There hung
the ancient family picture, which, from some odd mysterious expressions of his uncle relating
to it, had become to his boyhood, nay, his early youth, a subject of curiosity and of fear.
He remembered how, when left alone in the apartment, the searching eye of the old warrior seemed
always bent upon his, in whatever part of the room he placed himself, and how his childish
imagination was perturbed at a phenomenon, for which he could not account.

With these came a thousand dearer and warmer recollections of his early attachment to his pretty
cousin Alice, when he assisted her at her lessons, brought water for her flowers, or accompanied
her while she sung; and he remembered that while her father looked at them with a good-humoured
and careless smile, he had once heard him mutter, "And if it should turn out so--why, it might
be best for both," and the theories of happiness he had reared on these words. All these visions
had been dispelled by the trumpet of war, which called Sir Henry Lee and himself to opposite
sides; and the transactions of this very day had shown, that even Everard's success as a soldier
and a statesman seemed absolutely to prohibit the chance of their being revived.

He was waked out of this unpleasing reverie by the approach of Joceline, who, being possibly
a seasoned toper, had made the additional arrangements with more expedition and accuracy, than
could have been expected from a person engaged as he had been since night-fall.

He now wished to know the Colonel's directions for the night.

"Would he eat anything?"

"No."

"Did his honour choose to accept Sir Henry Lee's bed, which was ready prepared?"

"Yes."

"That of Mistress Alice Lee should be prepared for the Secretary."

"On pain of thine ears--No," replied Everard.

"Where then was the worthy Secretary to be quartered?"

"In the dog-kennel, if you list," replied Colonel Everard; "but," added he, stepping to the
sleeping apartment of Alice, which opened from the parlour, locking it, and taking out the
key, "no one shall profane this chamber."

"Had his honour any other commands for the night?"

"None, save to clear the apartment of yonder man. My clerk will remain with me--I have orders
which must be written out.--Yet stay--Thou gavest my letter this morning to Mistress Alice?"

"I did."

"Tell me, good Joceline, what she said when she received it?"

"She seemed much concerned, sir; and indeed I think that she wept a little--but indeed she
seemed very much distressed."

"And what message did she send to me?"

"None, may it please your honour--She began to say, 'Tell my cousin Everard that I will communicate
my uncle's kind purpose to my father, if I can get fitting opportunity--but that I greatly
fear'--and there checked herself, as it were, and said, 'I will write to my cousin; and as
it may be late ere I have an opportunity of speaking with my father, do thou come for my answer
after service.'--So I went to church myself, to while away the time; but when I returned to
the Chase, I found this man had summoned my master to surrender, and, right or wrong, I must
put him in possession of the Lodge. I would fain have given your honour a hint that the old
knight and my young mistress were like to take you on the form, but I could not mend the matter."

"Thou hast done well, good fellow, and I will remember thee.--And now, my masters," he said,
advancing to the brace of clerks or secretaries, who had in the meanwhile sate quietly down
beside the stone bottle, and made up acquaintance over a glass of its contents--"Let me remind
you, that the night wears late."

"There is something cries tinkle, tinkle, in the bottle yet," said Wildrake, in reply.

"Hem! hem! hem!" coughed the Colonel of the Parliament service; and if his lips did not curse
his companion's imprudence, I will not answer for what arose in his heart,--"Well!" he said,
observing that Wildrake had filled his own glass and Tomkins's, "take that parting glass and
begone."

"Would you not be pleased to hear first," said Wildrake, "how this honest gentleman saw the
devil to-night look through a pane of yonder window, and how he thinks he had a mighty strong
resemblance to your worship's humble slave and varlet scribbler? Would you but hear this, sir,
and just sip a glass of this very recommendable strong waters?"

"I will drink none, sir," said Colonel Everard sternly; "and I have to tell you, that you have
drunken a glass too much already.--Mr. Tomkins, sir, I wish you good night."

"A word in season at parting," said Tomkins, standing up behind the long leathern back of a
chair, hemming and snuffling as if preparing for an exhortation.

"Excuse me, sir," replied Markham Everard sternly; "you are not now sufficiently yourself to
guide the devotion of others."

"Woe be to them that reject!" said the Secretary of the Commissioners, stalking out of the
room--the rest was lost in shutting the door, or suppressed for fear of offence.

"And now, fool Wildrake, begone to thy bed--yonder it lies," pointing to the knight's apartment.

"What, thou hast secured the lady's for thyself? I saw thee put the key in thy pocket."

"I would not--indeed I could not sleep in that apartment--I can sleep nowhere--but I will watch
in this arm-chair.--I have made him place wood for repairing the fire.--Good now, go to bed
thyself, and sleep off thy liquor."

"Liquor!--I laugh thee to scorn, Mark--thou art a milksop, and the son of a milksop, and know'st
not what a good fellow can do in the way of crushing an honest cup."

"The whole vices of his faction are in this poor fellow individually," said the Colonel to
himself, eyeing his protege askance, as the other retreated into the bedroom, with no very
steady pace--"He is reckless, intemperate, dissolute;--and if I cannot get him safely shipped
for France, he will certainly be both his own ruin and mine.--Yet, withal, he is kind, brave,
and generous, and would have kept the faith with me which he now expects from me; and in what
consists the merit of our truth, if we observe not our plighted word when we have promised,
to our hurt? I will take the liberty, however, to secure myself against farther interruption
on his part."

So saying, he locked the door of communication betwixt the sleeping-room, to which the cavalier
had retreated, and the parlour;-- and then, after pacing the floor thoughtfully, returned to
his seat, trimmed the lamp, and drew out a number of letters.--"I will read these over once
more," he said, "that, if possible, the thought of public affairs may expel this keen sense
of personal sorrow. Gracious Providence, where is this to end! We have sacrificed the peace
of our families, the warmest wishes of our young hearts, to right the country in which we were
born, and to free her from oppression; yet it appears, that every step we have made towards
liberty, has but brought us in view of new and more terrific perils, as he who travels in a
mountainous region, is by every step which elevates him higher, placed in a situation of more
imminent hazard."

He read long and attentively, various tedious and embarrassed letters, in which the writers,
placing before him the glory of God, and the freedom and liberties of England, as their supreme
ends, could not, by all the ambagitory expressions they made use of, prevent the shrewd eye
of Markham Everard from seeing, that self-interest and views of ambition, were the principal
moving springs at the bottom of their plots.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE SIXTH.

  Sleep steals on us even like his brother Death--
  We know not when it comes--we know it must come--
  We may affect to scorn and to contemn it,
  For 'tis the highest pride of human misery
  To say it knows not of an opiate;
  Yet the reft parent, the despairing lover,
  Even the poor wretch who waits for execution,
  Feels this oblivion, against which he thought
  His woes had arm'd his senses, steal upon him,
  And through the fenceless citadel--the body--
  Surprise that haughty garrison--the mind.
                                            HERBERT.

Colonel Everard experienced the truth contained in the verses of the quaint old bard whom we
have quoted above. Amid private grief, and anxiety for a country long a prey to civil war,
and not likely to fall soon under any fixed or well-established form of government, Everard
and his father had, like many others, turned their eyes to General Cromwell, as the person
whose valour had made him the darling of the army, whose strong sagacity had hitherto predominated
over the high talents by which he had been assailed in Parliament, as well as over his enemies
in the field, and who was alone in the situation to settle the nation, as the phrase then went;
or, in other words, to dictate the mode of government. The father and son were both reputed
to stand high in the General's favour. But Markham Everard was conscious of some particulars,
which induced him to doubt whether Cromwell actually, and at heart, bore either to his father
or to himself that good-will which was generally believed. He knew him for a profound politician,
who could veil for any length of time his real sentiments of men and things, until they could
be displayed without prejudice to his interest. And he moreover knew that the General was not
likely to forget the opposition which the Presbyterian party had offered to what Oliver called
the Great Matter--the trial, namely, and execution of the King. In this opposition, his father
and he had anxiously concurred, nor had the arguments, nor even the half-expressed threats
of Cromwell, induced them to flinch from that course, far less to permit their names to be
introduced into the commission nominated to sit in judgment on that memorable occasion.

This hesitation had occasioned some temporary coldness between the General and the Everards,
father and son. But as the latter remained in the army, and bore arms under Cromwell both in
Scotland, and finally at Worcester, his services very frequently called forth the approbation
of his commander. After the fight of Worcester, in particular, he was among the number of those
officers on whom Oliver, rather considering the actual and practical extent of his own power,
than the name under which he exercised it, was with difficulty withheld from imposing the dignity
of Knights-Bannerets at his own will and pleasure. It therefore seemed, that all recollection
of former disagreement was obliterated, and that the Everards had regained their former stronghold
in the General's affections. There were, indeed, several who doubted this, and who endeavoured
to bring over this distinguished young officer to some other of the parties which divided the
infant Commonwealth. But to these proposals he turned a deaf ear. Enough of blood, he said,
had been spilled--it was time that the nation should have repose under a firmly-established
government, of strength sufficient to protect property, and of lenity enough to encourage the
return of tranquillity. This, he thought, could only be accomplished by means of Cromwell,
and the greater part of England was of the same opinion. It is true, that, in thus submitting
to the domination of a successful soldier, those who did so, forgot the principles upon which
they had drawn the sword against the late King. But in revolutions, stern and high principles
are often obliged to give way to the current of existing circumstances; and in many a case,
where wars have been waged for points of metaphysical right, they have been at last gladly
terminated, upon the mere hope of obtaining general tranquillity, as, after many a long siege,
a garrison is often glad to submit on mere security for life and limb.

Colonel Everard, therefore, felt that the support which he afforded Cromwell, was only under
the idea, that, amid a choice of evils, the least was likely to ensue from a man of the General's
wisdom and valour being placed at the head of the state; and he was sensible, that Oliver himself
was likely to consider his attachment as lukewarm and imperfect, and measure his gratitude
for it upon the same limited scale.

In the meanwhile, however, circumstances compelled him to make trial of the General's friendship.
The sequestration of Woodstock, and the warrant to the Commissioners to dispose of it as national
property, had been long granted, but the interest of the elder Everard had for weeks and months
deferred its execution. The hour was now approaching when the blow could be no longer parried,
especially as Sir Henry Lee, on his side, resisted every proposal of submitting himself to
the existing government, and was therefore, now that his hour of grace was passed, enrolled
in the list of stubborn and irreclaimable malignants, with whom the Council of State was determined
no longer to keep terms. The only mode of protecting the old knight and his daughter, was to
interest, if possible, the General himself in the matter; and revolving all the circumstances
connected with their intercourse, Colonel Everard felt that a request, which would so immediately
interfere with the interests of Desborough, the brother-in-law of Cromwell, and one of the
present Commissioners, was putting to a very severe trial the friendship of the latter. Yet
no alternative remained.

With this view, and agreeably to a request from Cromwell, who at parting had been very urgent
to have his written opinion upon public affairs, Colonel Everard passed the earlier part of
the night in arranging his ideas upon the state of the Commonwealth, in a plan which he thought
likely to be acceptable to Cromwell, as it exhorted him, under the aid of Providence, to become
the saviour of the state, by convoking a free Parliament, and by their aid placing himself
at the head of some form of liberal and established government, which might supersede the state
of anarchy, in which the nation was otherwise likely to be merged. Taking a general view of
the totally broken condition of the Royalists, and of the various factions which now convulsed
the state, he showed how this might be done without bloodshed or violence. From this topic
he descended to the propriety of keeping up the becoming state of the Executive Government,
in whose hands soever it should be lodged, and thus showed Cromwell, as the future Stadtholder,
or Consul, or Lieutenant-General of Great Britain and Ireland, a prospect of demesne and residence
becoming his dignity. Then he naturally passed to the disparking and destroying of the royal
residences of England, made a woful picture of the demolition which impended over Woodstock,
and interceded for the preservation of that beautiful seat, as a matter of personal favour,
in which he found himself deeply interested.

Colonel Everard, when he had finished his letter, did not find himself greatly risen in his
own opinion. In the course of his political conduct, he had till this hour avoided mixing up
personal motives with his public grounds of action, and yet he now felt himself making such
a composition. But he comforted himself, or at least silenced this unpleasing recollection,
with the consideration, that the weal of Britain, studied under the aspect of the times, absolutely
required that Cromwell should be at the head of the government; and that the interest of Sir
Henry Lee, or rather his safety and his existence, no less emphatically demanded the preservation
of Woodstock, and his residence there. Was it a fault of his, that the same road should lead
to both these ends, or that his private interest, and that of the country, should happen to
mix in the same letter? He hardened himself, therefore, to the act, made up and addressed his
packet to the Lord-General, and then sealed it with his seal of arms. This done, he lay back
in the chair; and, in spite of his expectations to the contrary, fell asleep in the course
of his reflections, anxious and harassing as they were, and did not awaken until the cold grey
light of dawn was peeping through the eastern oriel.

He started at first, rousing himself with the sensation of one who awakes in a place unknown
to him; but the localities instantly forced themselves on his recollection. The lamp burning
dimly in the socket, the wood fire almost extinguished in its own white embers, the gloomy
picture over the chimney-piece, the sealed packet on the table--all reminded him of the events
of yesterday, and his deliberations of the succeeding night. "There is no help for it," he
said; "it must be Cromwell or anarchy. And probably the sense that his title, as head of the
Executive Government, is derived merely from popular consent, may check the too natural proneness
of power to render itself arbitrary. If he govern by Parliaments, and with regard to the privileges
of the subject, wherefore not Oliver as well as Charles? But I must take measures for having
this conveyed safely to the hands of this future sovereign prince. It will be well to take
the first word of influence with him, since there must be many who will not hesitate to recommend
counsels more violent and precipitate."

He determined to intrust the important packet to the charge of Wildrake, whose rashness was
never so distinguished, as when by any chance he was left idle and unemployed; besides, even
if his faith had not been otherwise unimpeachable, the obligations which he owed to his friend
Everard must have rendered it such.

These conclusions passed through Colonel Everard's mind, as, collecting the remains of wood
in the chimney, he gathered them into a hearty blaze, to remove the uncomfortable feeling of
dullness which pervaded his limbs; and by the time he was a little more warm, again sunk into
a slumber, which was only dispelled by the beams of morning peeping into his apartment.

He arose, roused himself, walked up and down the room, and looked from the large oriel window
on the nearest objects, which were the untrimmed hedges and neglected walks of a certain wilderness,
as it is called in ancient treatises on gardening, which, kept of yore well ordered, and in
all the pride of the topiary art, presented a succession of yew-trees cut into fantastic forms,
of close alleys, and of open walks, filling about two or three acres of ground on that side
of the Lodge, and forming a boundary between its immediate precincts and the open Park. Its
enclosure was now broken down in many places, and the hinds with their fawns fed free and unstartled
up to the very windows of the silvan palace.

This had been a favourite scene of Markham's sports when a boy. He could still distinguish,
though now grown out of shape, the verdant battlements of a Gothic castle, all created by the
gardener's shears, at which he was accustomed to shoot his arrows; or, stalking before it like
the Knight-errants of whom he read, was wont to blow his horn, and bid defiance to the supposed
giant or Paynim knight, by whom it was garrisoned. He remembered how he used to train his cousin,
though several years younger than himself, to bear a part in those revels of his boyish fancy,
and to play the character of an elfin page, or a fairy, or an enchanted princess. He remembered,
too, many particulars of their later acquaintance, from which he had been almost necessarily
led to the conclusion, that from an early period their parents had entertained some idea, that
there might be a well-fitted match betwixt his fair cousin and himself. A thousand visions,
formed in so bright a prospect, had vanished along with it, but now returned like shadows,
to remind him of all he had lost--and for what?--"For the sake of England," his proud consciousness
replied,--"Of England, in danger of becoming the prey at once of bigotry and tyranny." And
he strengthened himself with the recollection, "If I have sacrificed my private happiness,
it is that my country may enjoy liberty of conscience, and personal freedom; which, under a
weak prince and usurping statesman, she was but too likely to have lost."

But the busy fiend in his breast would not be repulsed by the bold answer. "Has thy resistance,"
it demanded, "availed thy country, Markham Everard? Lies not England, after so much bloodshed,
and so much misery, as low beneath the sword of a fortunate soldier, as formerly under the
sceptre of an encroaching prince? Are Parliament, or what remains of them, fitted to contend
with a leader, master of his soldiers' hearts, as bold and subtle as he is impenetrable in
his designs! This General, who holds the army, and by that the fate of the nation in his hand,
will he lay down his power because philosophy would pronounce it his duty to become a subject?"

He dared not answer that his knowledge of Cromwell authorised him to expect any such act of
self-denial. Yet still he considered that in times of such infinite difficulty, that must be
the best government, however little desirable in itself, which should most speedily restore
peace to the land, and stop the wounds which the contending parties were daily inflicting on
each other. He imagined that Cromwell was the only authority under which a steady government
could be formed, and therefore had attached himself to his fortune, though not without considerable
and recurring doubts, how far serving the views of this impenetrable and mysterious General
was consistent with the principles under which he had assumed arms.

While these things passed in his mind, Everard looked upon the packet which lay on the table
addressed to the Lord-General, and which he had made up before sleep. He hesitated several
times, when he remembered its purport, and in what degree he must stand committed with that
personage, and bound to support his plans of aggrandizement, when once that communication was
in Oliver Cromwell's possession.

"Yet it must be so," he said at last, with a deep sigh. "Among the contending parties, he is
the strongest--the wisest and most moderate-- and ambitious though he be, perhaps not the most
dangerous. Some one must be trusted with power to preserve and enforce general order, and who
can possess or wield such power like him that is head of the victorious armies of England?
Come what will in future, peace and the restoration of law ought to be our first and most pressing
object. This remnant of a parliament cannot keep their ground against the army, by mere appeal
to the sanction of opinion. If they design to reduce the soldiery, it must be by actual warfare,
and the land has been too long steeped in blood. But Cromwell may, and I trust will, make a
moderate accommodation with them, on grounds by which peace may be preserved; and it is to
this which we must look and trust for a settlement of the kingdom, alas! and for the chance
of protecting my obstinate kinsman from the consequences of his honest though absurd pertinacity."

Silencing some internal feelings of doubt and reluctance by such reasoning as this, Markham
Everard continued in his resolution to unite himself with Cromwell in the struggle which was
evidently approaching betwixt the civil and military authorities; not as the course which,
if at perfect liberty, he would have preferred adopting, but as the best choice between two
dangerous extremities to which the times had reduced him. He could not help trembling, however,
when he recollected that his father, though hitherto the admirer of Cromwell, as the implement
by whom so many marvels had been wrought in England, might not be disposed to unite with his
interest against that of the Long Parliament, of which he had been, till partly laid aside
by continued indisposition, an active and leading member. This doubt also he was obliged to
swallow or strangle, as he might; but consoled himself with the ready argument, that it was
impossible his father could see matters in another light than that in which they occurred to
himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE SEVENTH.

Determined at length to dispatch his packet to the General without delay, Colonel Everard approached
the door of the apartment, in which, as was evident from the heavy breathing within, the prisoner
Wildrake enjoyed a deep slumber, under the influence of liquor at once and of fatigue. In turning
the key, the bolt, which was rather rusty, made a resistance so noisy, as partly to attract
the sleeper's attention, though not to awake him. Everard stood by his bedside, as he heard
him mutter, "Is it morning already, jailor?--Why, you dog, an you had but a cast of humanity
in you, you would qualify your vile news with a cup of sack;--hanging is sorry work, my masters--and
sorrow's dry."

"Up, Wildrake--up, thou ill-omened dreamer," said his friend, shaking him by the collar.

"Hands off!" answered the sleeper.--"I can climb a ladder without help, I trow."--He then sate
up in the bed, and opening his eyes, stared around him, and exclaimed, "Zounds! Mark, is it
only thou? I thought it was all over with me--fetters were struck from my legs--rope drawn
round my gullet--irons knocked off my hands--hempen cravat tucked on,--all ready for a dance
in the open element upon slight footing."

"Truce with thy folly, Wildrake; sure the devil of drink, to whom thou hast, I think, sold
thyself"--

"For a hogshead of sack," interrupted Wildrake; "the bargain was made in a cellar in the Vintry."

"I am as mad as thou art, to trust any thing to thee," said Markham; "I scarce believe thou
hast thy senses yet."

"What should ail me?" said Wildrake--"I trust I have not tasted liquor in my sleep, saving
that I dreamed of drinking small-beer with Old Noll, of his own brewing. But do not look so
glum, man--I am the same Roger Wildrake that I ever was; as wild as a mallard, but as true
as a game-cock. I am thine own chum, man--bound to thee by thy kind deeds-- devinctus beneficio--there
is Latin for it; and where is the thing thou wilt charge me with, that I wilt not, or dare
not execute, were it to pick the devil's teeth with my rapier, after he had breakfasted upon
round-heads?"

"You will drive me mad," said Everard.--"When I am about to intrust all I have most valuable
on earth to your management, your conduct and language are those of a mere Bedlamite. Last
night I made allowance for thy drunken fury; but who can endure thy morning madness?--it is
unsafe for thyself and me, Wildrake--it is unkind--I might say ungrateful."

"Nay, do not say that, my friend," said the cavalier, with some show of feeling; "and do not
judge of me with a severity that cannot apply to such as I am. We who have lost our all in
these sad jars, who are compelled to shift for our living, not from day to day, but from meal
to meal--we whose only hiding place is the jail, whose prospect of final repose is the gallows,--what
canst thou expect from us, but to bear such a lot with a light heart, since we should break
down under it with a heavy one?"

This was spoken in a tone of feeling which found a responding string in Everard's bosom. He
took his friend's hand, and pressed it kindly.

"Nay, if I seemed harsh to thee, Wildrake, I profess it was for thine own sake more than mine.
I know thou hast at the bottom of thy levity, as deep a principle of honour and feeling as
ever governed a human heart. But thou art thoughtless--thou art rash--and I protest to thee,
that wert thou to betray thyself in this matter, in which I trust thee, the evil consequences
to myself would not afflict me more than the thought of putting thee into such danger."

"Nay, if you take it on that tone, Mark," said the cavalier, making an effort to laugh, evidently
that he might conceal a tendency to a different emotion, "thou wilt make children of us both--babes
and sucklings, by the hilt of this bilbo.--Come, trust me; I can be cautious when time requires
it--no man ever saw me drink when an alert was expected--and not one poor pint of wine will
I taste until I have managed this matter for thee. Well, I am thy secretary--clerk--I had forgot--and
carry thy dispatches to Cromwell, taking good heed not to be surprised or choused out of my
lump of loyalty, (striking his finger on the packet,) and I am to deliver it to the most loyal
hands to which it is most humbly addressed--Adzooks, Mark, think of it a moment longer-- Surely
thou wilt not carry thy perverseness so far as to strike in with this bloody-minded rebel?--Bid
me give him three inches of my dudgeon-dagger, and I will do it much more willingly than present
him with thy packet."

"Go to," replied Everard, "this is beyond our bargain. If you will help me it is well; if not,
let me lose no time in debating with thee, since I think every moment an age till the packet
is in the General's possession. It is the only way left me to obtain some protection, and a
place of refuge for my uncle and his daughter."

"That being the case," said the cavalier, "I will not spare the spur. My nag up yonder at the
town will be ready for the road in a trice, and thou mayst reckon on my being with Old Noll--thy
General, I mean--in as short time as man and horse may consume betwixt Woodstock and Windsor,
where I think I shall for the present find thy friend keeping possession where he has slain."

"Hush, not a word of that. Since we parted last night, I have shaped thee a path which will
suit thee better than to assume the decency of language and of outward manner, of which thou
hast so little. I have acquainted the General that thou hast been by bad example and bad education"--

"Which is to be interpreted by contraries, I hope," said Wildrake; "for sure I have been as
well born and bred up as any lad of Leicestershire might desire."

"Now, I prithee, hush--thou hast, I say, by bad example become at one time a malignant, and
mixed in the party of the late King. But seeing what things were wrought in the nation by the
General, thou hast come to a clearness touching his calling to be a great implement in the
settlement of these distracted kingdoms. This account of thee will not only lead him to pass
over some of thy eccentricities, should they break out in spite of thee, but will also give
thee an interest with him as being more especially attached to his own person."

"Doubtless," said Wildrake, "as every fisher loves best the trouts that are of his own tickling."

"It is likely, I think, he will send thee hither with letters to me," said the Colonel, "enabling
me to put a stop to the proceedings of these sequestrators, and to give poor old Sir Henry
Lee permission to linger out his days among the oaks he loves to look upon. I have made this
my request to General Cromwell, and I think my father's friendship and my own may stretch so
far on his regard without risk of cracking, especially standing matters as they now do--thou
dost understand?"

"Entirely well," said the cavalier; "stretch, quotha!--I would rather stretch a rope than hold
commerce with the old King-killing ruffian. But I have said I will be guided by thee, Markham,
and rat me but I will."

"Be cautious, then," said Everard, "mark well what he does and says--more especially what he
does; for Oliver is one of those whose mind is better known by his actions than by his words;
and stay--I warrant thee thou wert setting off without a cross in thy purse?"

"Too true, Mark," said Wildrake; "the last noble melted last night among yonder blackguard
troopers of yours."

"Well, Roger," replied the Colonel, "that is easily mended." So saying, he slipped his purse
into his friend's hand. "But art thou not an inconsiderate weather-brained fellow, to set forth
as thou wert about to do, without any thing to bear thy charges; what couldst thou have done?"

"Faith, I never thought of that; I must have cried Stand, I suppose, to the first pursy townsman
or greasy grazier that I met o' the heath--it is many a good fellow's shift in these bad times."

"Go to," said Everard; "be cautious--use none of your loose acquaintance--rule your tongue--beware
of the wine-pot--for there is little danger if thou couldst only but keep thyself sober--Be
moderate in speech, and forbear oaths or vaunting."

"In short, metamorphose myself into such a prig as thou art, Mark,-- Well," said Wildrake,
"so far as outside will go, I think I can make a Hope-on-High-Bomby [Footnote: A puritanic
character in one of Beaumont and Fletcher's plays.] as well as thou canst. Ah! those were merry
days when we saw Mills present Bomby at the Fortune playhouse, Mark, ere I had lost my laced
cloak and the jewel in my ear, or thou hadst gotten the wrinkle on thy brow, and the puritanic
twist of thy mustache!"

"They were like most worldly pleasures, Wildrake," replied Everard, "sweet in the mouth and
bitter in digestion.--But away with thee; and when thou bring'st back my answer, thou wilt
find me either here or at Saint George's Inn, at the little borough.--Good luck to thee--Be
but cautious how thou bearest thyself."

The Colonel remained in deep meditation.--"I think," he said, "I have not pledged myself too
far to the General. A breach between him and the Parliament seems inevitable, and would throw
England back into civil war, of which all men are wearied. He may dislike my messenger--yet
that I do not greatly fear. He knows I would choose such as I can myself depend on, and hath
dealt enough with the stricter sort to be aware that there are among them, as well as elsewhere,
men who can hide two faces under one hood."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE EIGHTH.

  For there in lofty air was seen to stand
  The stern Protector of the conquer'd land;
  Draw in that look with which he wept and swore,
  Turn'd out the members and made fast the door,
  Ridding the house of every knave and drone,
  Forced--though it grieved his soul--to rule alone.

    THE FRANK COURTSHIP.--CRABBE.

Leaving Colonel Everard to his meditations, we follow the jolly cavalier, his companion, who,
before mounting at the George, did not fail to treat himself to his morning-draught of eggs
and muscadine, to enable him to face the harvest wind.

Although he had suffered himself to be sunk in the extravagant license which was practised
by the cavaliers, as if to oppose their conduct in every point to the preciseness of their
enemies, yet Wildrake, well-born and well-educated, and endowed with good natural parts, and
a heart which even debauchery, and the wild life of a roaring cavalier, had not been able entirely
to corrupt, moved on his present embassy with a strange mixture of feelings, such as perhaps
he had never in his life before experienced.

His feelings as a loyalist led him to detest Cromwell, whom in other circumstances he would
scarce have wished to see, except in a field of battle, where he could have had the pleasure
to exchange pistol-shots with him. But with this hatred there was mixed a certain degree of
fear. Always victorious wherever he fought, the remarkable person whom Wildrake was now approaching
had acquired that influence over the minds of his enemies, which constant success is so apt
to inspire--they dreaded while they hated him--and joined to these feelings, was a restless
meddling curiosity, which made a particular feature in Wildrake's character, who, having long
had little business of his own, and caring nothing about that which he had, was easily attracted
by the desire of seeing whatever was curious or interesting around him.

"I should like to see the old rascal after all," he said, "were it but to say that I had seen him."

He reached Windsor in the afternoon, and felt on his arrival the strongest inclination to take
up his residence at some of his old haunts, when he had occasionally frequented that fair town
in gayer days. But resisting all temptations of this kind, he went courageously to the principal
inn, from which its ancient emblem, the Garter, had long disappeared. The master, too, whom
Wildrake, experienced in his knowledge of landlords and hostelries, had remembered a dashing
Mine Host of Queen Bess's school, had now sobered down to the temper of the times, shook his
head when he spoke of the Parliament, wielded his spigot with the gravity of a priest conducting
a sacrifice, wished England a happy issue out of all her difficulties, and greatly lauded his
Excellency the Lord-General. Wildrake also remarked, that his wine was better than it was wont
to be, the Puritans having an excellent gift at detecting every fallacy in that matter; and
that his measures were less and his charges larger--circumstances which he was induced to attend
to, by mine host talking a good deal about his conscience.

He was told by this important personage, that the Lord-General received frankly all sorts of
persons; and that he might obtain access to him next morning, at eight o'clock, for the trouble
of presenting himself at the Castle-gate, and announcing himself as the bearer of despatches
to his Excellency.

To the Castle the disguised cavalier repaired at the hour appointed. Admittance was freely
permitted to him by the red-coated soldier, who, with austere looks, and his musket on his
shoulder, mounted guard at the external gate of that noble building. Wildrake passed through
the underward or court, gazing as he passed upon the beautiful Chapel, which had but lately
received, in darkness and silence, the unhonoured remains of the slaughtered King of England.
Rough as Wildrake was, the recollection of this circumstance affected him so strongly, that
he had nearly turned back in a sort of horror, rather than face the dark and daring man, to
whom, amongst all the actors in that melancholy affair, its tragic conclusion was chiefly to
be imputed. But he felt the necessity of subduing all sentiments of this nature, and compelled
himself to proceed in a negotiation intrusted to his conduct by one to whom he was so much
obliged as Colonel Everard. At the ascent, which passed by the Round Tower, he looked to the
ensign-staff, from which the banner of England was wont to float. It was gone, with all its
rich emblazonry, its gorgeous quarterings, and splendid embroidery; and in its room waved that
of the Commonwealth, the cross of Saint George, in its colours of blue and red, not yet intersected
by the diagonal cross of Scotland, which was soon after assumed, as if in evidence of England's
conquest over her ancient enemy. This change of ensigns increased the train of his gloomy reflections,
in which, although contrary to his wont, he became so deeply wrapped, that the first thing
which recalled him to himself, was the challenge from the sentinel, accompanied with a stroke
of the butt of his musket on the pavement, with an emphasis which made Wildrake start.

"Whither away, and who are you?"

"The bearer of a packet," answered Wildrake, "to the worshipful the Lord-General."

"Stand till I call the officer of the guard."

The corporal made his appearance, distinguished above those of his command by a double quantity
of band round his neck, a double height of steeple-crowned hat, a larger allowance of cloak,
and a treble proportion of sour gravity of aspect. It might be read on his countenance, that
he was one of those resolute enthusiasts to whom Oliver owed his conquests, whose religious
zeal made them even more than a match for the high-spirited and high-born cavaliers, who exhausted
their valour in vain defence of their sovereign's person and crown. He looked with grave solemnity
at Wildrake, as if he was making in his own mind an inventory of his features and dress; and
having fully perused them, he required "to know his business."

"My business," said Wildrake, as firmly as he could--for the close investigation of this man
had given him some unpleasant nervous sensations--"my business is with your General."

"With his Excellency the Lord-General, thou wouldst say?" replied the corporal. "Thy speech,
my friend, savours too little of the reverence due to his Excellency."

"D--n his Excellency!" was at the lips of the cavalier; but prudence kept guard, and permitted
not the offensive words to escape the barrier. He only bowed, and was silent.

"Follow me," said the starched figure whom he addressed; and Wildrake followed him accordingly
into the guard-house, which exhibited an interior characteristic of the times, and very different
from what such military stations present at the present day.

By the fire sat two or three musketeers, listening to one who was expounding some religious
mystery to them. He began half beneath his breath, but in tones of great volubility, which
tones, as he approached the conclusion, became sharp and eager, as challenging either instant
answer or silent acquiescence. The audience seemed to listen to the speaker with immovable
features, only answering him with clouds of tobacco-smoke, which they rolled from under their
thick mustaches. On a bench lay a soldier on his face: whether asleep, or in a fit of contemplation,
it was impossible to decide. In the midst of the floor stood an officer, as he seemed by his
embroidered shoulder-belt and scarf round his waist, otherwise very plainly attired, who was
engaged in drilling a stout bumpkin, lately enlisted, to the manual, as it was then used. The
motions and words of command were twenty at the very least; and until they were regularly brought
to an end, the corporal did not permit Wildrake either to sit down or move forward beyond the
threshold of the guard-house. So he had to listen in succession to--Poise your musket--Rest
your musket--Cock your musket--Handle your primers--and many other forgotten words of discipline,
until at length the words, "Order your musket," ended the drill for the time. "Thy name, friend?"
said the officer to the recruit, when the lesson was over.

"Ephraim," answered the fellow, with an affected twang through the nose.

"And what besides Ephraim?"

"Ephraim Cobb, from the goodly city of Glocester, where I have dwelt for seven years, serving
apprentice to a praiseworthy cordwainer."

"It is a goodly craft," answered the officer; "but casting in thy lot with ours, doubt not
that thou shalt be set beyond thine awl, and thy last to boot."

A grim smile of the speaker accompanied this poor attempt at a pun; and then turning round
to the corporal, who stood two paces off, with the face of one who seemed desirous of speaking,
said, "How now, corporal, what tidings?"

"Here is one with a packet, an please your Excellency," said the corporal--"Surely my spirit
doth not rejoice in him, seeing I esteem him as a wolf in sheep's clothing."

By these words, Wildrake learned that he was in the actual presence of the remarkable person
to whom he was commissioned; and he paused to consider in what manner he ought to address him.

The figure of Oliver Cromwell was, as is generally known, in no way prepossessing. He was of
middle stature, strong and coarsely made, with harsh and severe features, indicative, however,
of much natural sagacity and depth of thought. His eyes were grey and piercing; his nose too
large in proportion to his other features, and of a reddish hue.

His manner of speaking, when he had the purpose to make himself distinctly understood, was
energetic and forcible, though neither graceful nor eloquent. No man could on such occasion
put his meaning into fewer and more decisive words. But when, as it often happened, he had
a mind to play the orator, for the benefit of people's ears, without enlightening their understanding,
Cromwell was wont to invest his meaning, or that which seemed to be his meaning, in such a
mist of words, surrounding it with so many exclusions and exceptions, and fortifying it with
such a labyrinth of parentheses, that though one of the most shrewd men in England, he was,
perhaps, the most unintelligible speaker that ever perplexed an audience. It has been long
since said by the historian, that a collection of the Protector's speeches would make, with
a few exceptions, the most nonsensical book in the world; but he ought to have added, that
nothing could be more nervous, concise, and intelligible, than what he really intended should
be understood.

It was also remarked of Cromwell, that though born of a good family, both by father and mother,
and although he had the usual opportunities of education and breeding connected with such an
advantage, the fanatic democratic ruler could never acquire, or else disdained to practise,
the courtesies usually exercised among the higher classes in their intercourse with each other.
His demeanour was so blunt as sometimes might be termed clownish, yet there was in his language
and manner a force and energy corresponding to his character, which impressed awe, if it did
not impose respect; and there were even times when that dark and subtle spirit expanded itself,
so as almost to conciliate affection. The turn for humour, which displayed itself by fits,
was broad, and of a low, and sometimes practical character. Something there was in his disposition
congenial to that of his countrymen; a contempt of folly, a hatred of affectation, and a dislike
of ceremony, which, joined to the strong intrinsic qualities of sense and courage, made him
in many respects not an unfit representative of the democracy of England.

His religion must always be a subject of much doubt, and probably of doubt which he himself
could hardly have cleared up. Unquestionably there was a time in his life when he was sincerely
enthusiastic, and when his natural temper, slightly subject to hypochondria, was strongly agitated
by the same fanaticism which influenced so many persons of the time. On the other hand, there
were periods during his political career, when we certainly do him no injustice in charging
him with a hypocritical affectation. We shall probably judge him, and others of the same age,
most truly, if we suppose that their religious professions were partly influential in their
own breasts, partly assumed in compliance with their own interest. And so ingenious is the
human heart in deceiving itself as well as others, that it is probable neither Cromwell himself,
nor those making similar pretensions to distinguished piety, could exactly have fixed the point
at which their enthusiasm terminated and their hypocrisy commenced; or rather, it was a point
not fixed in itself, but fluctuating with the state of health, of good or bad fortune, of high
or low spirits, affecting the individual at the period.

Such was the celebrated person, who, turning round on Wildrake, and scanning his countenance
closely, seemed so little satisfied with what he beheld, that he instinctively hitched forward
his belt, so as to bring the handle of his tuck-sword within his reach. But yet, folding his
arms in his cloak, as if upon second thoughts laying aside suspicion, or thinking precaution
beneath him, he asked the cavalier what he was, and whence he came?

"A poor gentleman, sir,--that is, my lord,"--answered Wildrake; "last from Woodstock."

"And what may your tidings be, sir gentleman?" said Cromwell, with an emphasis. "Truly I have
seen those most willing to take upon them that title, bear themselves somewhat short of wise
men, and good men, and true men, with all their gentility; yet gentleman was a good title in
old England, when men remembered what it was construed to mean."

"You say truly, sir," replied Wildrake, suppressing, with difficulty, some of his usual wild
expletives; "formerly gentlemen were found in gentlemen's places, but now the world is so changed
that you shall find the broidered belt has changed place with the under spur-leather."

"Say'st thou me?" said the General; "I profess thou art a bold companion, that can bandy words
so wantonly;--thou ring'st somewhat too loud to be good metal, methinks. And, once again, what
are thy tidings with me?"

"This packet," said Wildrake, "commended to your hands by Colonel Markham Everard."

"Alas, I must have mistaken thee," answered Cromwell, mollified at the mention of a man's name
whom he had great desire to make his own; "forgive us, good friend, for such, we doubt not,
thou art. Sit thee down, and commune with thyself as thou may'st, until we have examined the
contents of thy packet. Let him be looked to, and have what he lacks." So saying the General
left the guard-house, where Wildrake took his seat in the corner, and awaited with patience
the issue of his mission.

The soldiers now thought themselves obliged to treat him with more consideration, and offered
him a pipe of Trinidado, and a black jack filled with October. But the look of Cromwell, and
the dangerous situation in which he might be placed by the least chance of detection, induced
Wildrake to decline these hospitable offers, and stretching back in his chair, and affecting
slumber, he escaped notice or conversation, until a sort of aide-de-camp, or military officer
in attendance, came to summon him to Cromwell's presence.

By this person he was guided to a postern-gate, through which he entered the body of the Castle,
and penetrating through many private passages and staircases, he at length was introduced into
a small cabinet, or parlour, in which was much rich furniture, some bearing the royal cipher
displayed, but all confused and disarranged, together with several paintings in massive frames,
having their faces turned towards the wall, as if they had been taken down for the purpose
of being removed.

In this scene of disorder, the victorious General of the Commonwealth was seated in a large
easy-chair, covered with damask, and deeply embroidered, the splendour of which made a strong
contrast with the plain, and even homely character of his apparel; although in look and action
he seemed like one who felt that the seat which might have in former days held a prince, was
not too much distinguished for his own fortunes and ambition. Wildrake stood before him, nor
did he ask him to sit down.

"Pearson," said Cromwell, addressing himself to the officer in attendance, "wait in the gallery,
but be within call." Pearson bowed, and was retiring. "Who are in the gallery beside?"

"Worthy Mr. Gordon, the chaplain, was holding forth but now to Colonel Overton, and four captains
of your Excellency's regiment."

"We would have it so," said the General; "we would not there were any corner in our dwelling
where the hungry soul might not meet with manna. Was the good man carried onward in his discourse?"

"Mightily borne through," said Pearson; "and he was touching the rightful claims which the
army, and especially your Excellency, hath acquired by becoming the instruments in the great
work;--not instruments to be broken asunder and cast away when the day of their service is
over, but to be preserved, and held precious, and prized for their honourable and faithful
labours, for which they have fought and marched, and fasted, and prayed, and suffered cold
and sorrow; while others, who would now gladly see them disbanded, and broken, and cashiered,
eat of the fat, and drink of the strong."

"Ah, good man!" said Cromwell, "and did he touch upon this so feelingly! I could say something--but
not now. Begone, Pearson, to the gallery. Let not our friends lay aside their swords, but watch
as well as pray."

Pearson retired; and the General, holding the letter of Everard in his hand, looked again for
a long while fixedly at Wildrake, as if considering in what strain he should address him.

When he did speak, it was, at first, in one of those ambiguous discourses which we have already
described, and by which it was very difficult for any one to understand his meaning, if, indeed,
he knew himself. We shall be as concise in our statement, as our desire to give the very words
of a man so extraordinary will permit.

"This letter," he said, "you have brought us from your master, or patron, Markham Everard;
truly an excellent and honourable gentleman as ever bore a sword upon his thigh, and one who
hath ever distinguished himself in the great work of delivering these three poor unhappy nations.
Answer me not: I know what thou wouldst say.--And this letter he hath sent to me by thee, his
clerk, or secretary, in whom he hath confidence, and in whom he prays me to have trust, that
there may be a careful messenger between us. And lastly, he hath sent thee to me--Do not answer--I
know what thou wouldst say,--to me, who, albeit, I am of that small consideration, that it
would be too much honour for me even to bear a halberd in this great and victorious army of
England, am nevertheless exalted to the rank of holding the guidance and the leading-staff
thereof.--Nay, do not answer, my friend--I know what thou wouldst say. Now, when communing
thus together, our discourse taketh, in respect to what I have said, a threefold argument,
or division: First, as it concerneth thy master; secondly, as it concerneth us and our office;
thirdly and lastly, as it toucheth thyself.--Now, as concerning this good and worthy gentleman,
Colonel Markham Everard, truly he hath played the man from the beginning of these unhappy buffetings,
not turning to the right or to the left, but holding ever in his eye the mark at which he aimed.
Ay, truly, a faithful, honourable gentleman, and one who may well call me friend; and truly
I am pleased to think that he doth so. Nevertheless, in this vale of tears, we must be governed
less by our private respects and partialities, than by those higher principles and points of
duty, whereupon the good Colonel Markham Everard hath ever framed his purposes, as, truly,
I have endeavoured to form mine, that we may all act as becometh good Englishmen and worthy
patriots. Then, as for Woodstock, it is a great thing which the good Colonel asks, that it
should be taken from the spoil of the godly and left in keeping of the men of Moab, and especially
of the malignant, Henry Lee, whose hand hath been ever against us when he might find room to
raise it; I say, he hath asked a great thing, both in respect of himself and me. For we of
this poor but godly army of England, are holden, by those of the Parliament, as men who should
render in spoil for them, but be no sharer of it ourselves; even as the buck, which the hounds
pull to earth, furnisheth no part of their own food, but they are lashed off from the carcass
with whips, like those which require punishment for their forwardness, not reward for their
services. Yet I speak not this so much in respect of this grant of Woodstock, in regard, that,
perhaps, their Lordships of the Council, and also the Committeemen of this Parliament, may
graciously think they have given me a portion in the matter, in relation that my kinsman Desborough
hath an interest allowed him therein; which interest, as he hath well deserved it for his true
and faithful service to these unhappy and devoted countries, so it would ill become me to diminish
the same to his prejudice, unless it were upon great and public respects. Thus thou seest how
it stands with me, my honest friend, and in what mind I stand touching thy master's request
to me; which yet I do not say that I can altogether, or unconditionally, grant or refuse, but
only tell my simple thoughts with regard thereto. Thou understandest me, I doubt not?"

Now, Roger Wildrake, with all the attention he had been able to pay to the Lord-General's speech,
had got so much confused among the various clauses of the harangue, that his brain was bewildered,
like that of a country clown when he chances to get himself involved among a crowd of carriages,
and cannot stir a step to get out of the way of one of them, without being in danger of being
ridden over by the others.

The General saw his look of perplexity, and began a new oration, to the same purpose as before;
spoke of his love for his kind friend the Colonel--his regard for his pious and godly kinsman,
Master Desborough-- the great importance of the Palace and Park of Woodstock--the determination
of the Parliament that it should be confiscated, and the produce brought into the coffers of
the state--his own deep veneration for the authority of Parliament, and his no less deep sense
of the injustice done to the army--how it was his wish and will that all matters should be
settled in an amicable and friendly manner, without self-seeking, debate, or strife, betwixt
those who had been the hands acting, and such as had been the heads governing, in that great
national cause--how he was willing, truly willing, to contribute to this work, by laying down,
not his commission only, but his life also, if it were requested of him, or could be granted
with safety to the poor soldiers, to whom, silly poor men, he was bound to be as a father,
seeing that they had followed him with the duty and affection of children.

And here he arrived at another dead pause, leaving Wildrake as uncertain as before, whether
it was or was not his purpose to grant Colonel Everard the powers he had asked for the protection
of Woodstock against the Parliamentary Commissioners. Internally he began to entertain hopes
that the justice of Heaven, or the effects of remorse, had confounded the regicide's understanding.
But no--he could see nothing but sagacity in that steady stern eye, which, while the tongue
poured forth its periphrastic language in such profusion, seemed to watch with severe accuracy
the effect which his oratory produced on the listener.

"Egad," thought the cavalier to himself, becoming a little familiar with the situation in which
he was placed, and rather impatient of a conversation--which led to no visible conclusion or
termination, "If Noll were the devil himself, as he is the devil's darling, I will not be thus
nose-led by him. I'll e'en brusque it a little, if he goes on at this rate, and try if I can
bring him to a more intelligible mode of speaking."

Entertaining this bold purpose, but half afraid to execute it, Wildrake lay by for an opportunity
of making the attempt, while Cromwell was apparently unable to express his own meaning. He
was already beginning a third panegyric upon Colonel Everard, with sundry varied expressions
of his own wish to oblige him, when Wildrake took the opportunity to strike in, on the General's
making one of his oratorical pauses.

"So please you" he said bluntly, "your worship has already spoken on two topics of your discourse,
your own worthiness, and that of my master, Colonel Everard. But, to enable me to do mine errand,
it would be necessary to bestow a few words on the third head."

"The third?" said Cromwell.

"Ay," said Wildrake, "which, in your honour's subdivision of your discourse, touched on my
unworthy self. What am I to do--what portion am I to have in this matter?"

Oliver started at once from the tone of voice he had hitherto used, and which somewhat resembled
the purring of a domestic cat, into the growl of the tiger when about to spring. "Thy portion,
jail-bird!" he exclaimed, "the gallows--thou shalt hang as high as Haman, if thou betray counsel!--But,"
he added, softening his voice, "keep it like a true man, and my favour will be the making of
thee. Come hither--thou art bold, I see, though somewhat saucy. Thou hast been a malignant--so
writes my worthy friend Colonel Everard; but thou hast now given up that falling cause. I tell
thee, friend, not all that the Parliament or the army could do would have pulled down the Stewarts
out of their high places, saving that Heaven had a controversy with them. Well, it is a sweet
and comely thing to buckle on one's armour in behalf of Heaven's cause; otherwise truly, for
mine own part, these men might have remained upon the throne even unto this day. Neither do
I blame any for aiding them, until these successive great judgments have overwhelmed them and
their house. I am not a bloody man, having in me the feeling of human frailty; but, friend,
whosoever putteth his hand to the plough, in the great actings which are now on foot in these
nations, had best beware that he do not look back; for, rely upon my simple word, that if you
fail me, I will not spare on you one foot's length of the gallows of Haman. Let me therefore
know, at a word, if the leaven of thy malignancy is altogether drubbed out of thee?" "Your
honourable lordship," said the cavalier, shrugging up his shoulders, "has done that for most
of us, so far as cudgelling to some tune can perform it."

"Say'st thou?" said the General, with a grim smile on his lip, which seemed to intimate that
he was not quite inaccessible to flattery; "yea, truly, thou dost not lie in that--we have
been an instrument. Neither are we, as I have already hinted, so severely bent against those
who have striven against us as malignants, as others may be. The parliament-men best know their
own interest and their own pleasure; but, to my poor thinking, it is full time to close these
jars, and to allow men of all kinds the means of doing service to their country; and we think
it will be thy fault if thou art not employed to good purpose for the state and thyself, on
condition thou puttest away the old man entirely from thee, and givest thy earnest attention
to what I have to tell thee."

"Your lordship need not doubt my attention," said the cavalier. And the republican General,
after another pause, as one who gave his confidence not without hesitation, proceeded to explain
his views with a distinctness which he seldom used, yet not without his being a little biassed
now and then, by his long habits of circumlocution, which indeed he never laid entirely aside,
save in the field of battle.

"Thou seest," he said, "my friend, how things stand with me. The Parliament, I care not who
knows it, love me not--still less do the Council of State, by whom they manage the executive
government of the kingdom. I cannot tell why they nourish suspicion against me, unless it is
because I will not deliver this poor innocent army, which has followed me in so many military
actions, to be now pulled asunder, broken piecemeal and reduced, so that they who have protected
the state at the expense of their blood, will not have, perchance, the means of feeding themselves
by their labour; which, methinks, were hard measure, since it is taking from Esau his birthright,
even without giving him a poor mess of pottage."

"Esau is likely to help himself, I think," replied Wildrake.

"Truly, thou say'st wisely," replied the General; "it is ill starving an armed man, if there
is food to be had for taking--nevertheless, far be it from me to encourage rebellion, or want
of due subordination to these our rulers. I would only petition, in a due and becoming, a sweet
and harmonious manner, that they would listen to our conditions, and consider our necessities.
But, sir, looking on me, and estimating me so little as they do, you must think that it would
be a provocation in me towards the Council of State, as well as the Parliament, if, simply
to gratify your worthy master, I were to act contrary to their purposes, or deny currency to
the commission under their authority, which is as yet the highest in the State--and long may
it be so for me!--to carry on the sequestration which they intend. And would it not also be
said, that I was lending myself to the malignant interest, affording this den of the blood-thirsty
and lascivious tyrants of yore, to be in this our day a place of refuge to that old and inveterate
Amalekite, Sir Henry Lee, to keep possession of the place in which he hath so long glorified
himself? Truly it would be a perilous matter."

"Am I then to report," said Wildrake, "an it please you, that you cannot stead Colonel Everard
in this matter?"

"Unconditionally, ay--but, taken conditionally, the answer may be otherwise,"--answered Cromwell.
"I see thou art not able to fathom my purpose, and therefore I will partly unfold it to thee.--But
take notice, that, should thy tongue betray my counsel, save in so far as carrying it to thy
master, by all the blood which has been shed in these wild times, thou shalt die a thousand
deaths in one!"

"Do not fear me, sir," said Wildrake, whose natural boldness and carelessness of character
was for the present time borne down and quelled, like that of falcon's in the presence of the
eagle.

"Hear me, then," said Cromwell, "and let no syllable escape thee. Knowest thou not the young
Lee, whom they call Albert, a malignant like his father, and one who went up with the young
Man to that last ruffle which we had with him at Worcester--May we be grateful for the victory!"

"I know there is such a young gentleman as Albert Lee," said Wildrake.

"And knowest thou not--I speak not by way of prying into the good Colonel's secrets, but only
as it behoves me to know something of the matter, that I may best judge how I am to serve him--Knowest
thou not that thy master, Markham Everard, is a suitor after the sister of this same malignant,
a daughter of the old Keeper, called Sir Henry Lee?"

"All this I have heard," said Wildrake, "nor can I deny that I believe in it."

"Well then, go to.--When the young man Charles Stewart fled from the field of Worcester, and
was by sharp chase and pursuit compelled to separate himself from his followers, I know by
sure intelligence that this Albert Lee was one of the last who remained with him, if not indeed
the very last."

"It was devilish like him," said the cavalier, without sufficiently weighing his expressions,
considering in what presence they were to be uttered--"And I'll uphold him with my rapier,
to be a true chip of the old block!"

"Ha, swearest thou?" said the General. "Is this thy reformation?"

"I never swear, so please you," replied Wildrake, recollecting himself, "except there is some
mention of malignants and cavaliers in my hearing; and then the old habit returns, and I swear
like one of Goring's troopers."

"Out upon thee," said the General; "what can it avail thee to practise a profanity so horrible
to the ears of others, and which brings no emolument to him who uses it?"

"There are, doubtless, more profitable sins in the world than the barren and unprofitable vice
of swearing," was the answer which rose to the lips of the cavalier; but that was exchanged
for a profession of regret for having given offence. The truth was, the discourse began to
take a turn which rendered it more interesting than ever to Wildrake, who therefore determined
not to lose the opportunity for obtaining possession of the secret that seemed to be suspended
on Cromwells lips; and that could only be through means of keeping guard upon his own.

"What sort of a house is Woodstock?" said the General, abruptly.

"An old mansion," said Wildrake, in reply; "and, so far as I could judge by a single night's
lodgings, having abundance of backstairs, also subterranean passages, and all the communications
under ground, which are common in old raven-nests of the sort."

"And places for concealing priests, unquestionably," said Cromwell. "It is seldom that such
ancient houses lack secret stalls wherein to mew up these calves of Bethel."

"Your Honour's Excellency," said Wildrake, "may swear to that."

"I swear not at all," replied the General, drily.--"But what think'st thou, good fellow?--I
will ask thee a blunt question--Where will those two Worcester fugitives that thou wottest
of be more likely to take shelter--and that they must be sheltered somewhere I well know--than,
in this same old palace, with all the corners and concealment whereof young Albert hath been
acquainted ever since his earliest infancy?"

"Truly," said Wildrake, making an effort to answer the question with seeming indifference,
while the possibility of such an event, and its consequences, flashed fearfully upon his mind,--"Truly,
I should be of your honour's opinion, but that I think the company, who, by the commission
of Parliament, have occupied Woodstock, are likely to fright them thence, as a cat scares doves
from a pigeon-house. The neighbourhood, with reverence, of Generals Desborough and Harrison,
will suit ill with fugitives from Worcester field."

"I thought as much, and so, indeed, would I have it," answered the General. "Long may it be
ere our names shall be aught but a terror to our enemies. But in this matter, if thou art an
active plotter for thy master's interest, thou might'st, I should think, work out something
favourable to his present object."

"My brain is too poor to reach the depth of your honourable purpose," said Wildrake.

"Listen, then, and let it be to profit," answered Cromwell. "Assuredly the conquest at Worcester
was a great and crowning mercy; yet might we seem to be but small in our thankfulness for the
same, did we not do what in us lies towards the ultimate improvement and final conclusion of
the great work which has been thus prosperous in our hands, professing, in pure humility and
singleness of heart, that we do not, in any way, deserve our instrumentality to be remembered,
nay, would rather pray and entreat, that our name and fortunes were forgotten, than that the
great work were in itself incomplete. Nevertheless, truly, placed as we now are, it concerns
us more nearly than others,--that is, if so poor creatures should at all speak of themselves
as concerned, whether more or less, with these changes which have been wrought around,--not,
I say, by ourselves, or our own power, but by the destiny to which we were called, fulfilling
the same with all meekness and humility,--I say it concerns us nearly that all things should
be done in conformity with the great work which hath been wrought, and is yet working, in these
lands. Such is my plain and simple meaning. Nevertheless, it is much to be desired that this
young man, this King of Scots, as he called himself--this Charles Stewart--should not escape
forth from the nation, where his arrival has wrought so much disturbance and bloodshed."

"I have no doubt," said the cavalier, looking down, "that your lordship's wisdom hath directed
all things as they may best lead towards such a consummation; and I pray your pains may be
paid as they deserve."

"I thank thee, friend," said Cromwell, with much humility; "doubtless we shall meet our reward,
being in the hands of a good paymaster, who never passeth Saturday night. But understand me,
friend--I desire no more than my own share in the good work. I would heartily do what poor
kindness I can to your worthy master, and even to you in your degree--for such as I do not
converse with ordinary men, that our presence may be forgotten like an every-day's occurrence.
We speak to men like thee for their reward or their punishment; and I trust it will be the
former which thou in thine office wilt merit at my hand."

"Your honour," said Wildrake, "speaks like one accustomed to command."

"True; men's minds are likened to those of my degree by fear and reverence," said the General;--"but
enough of that, desiring, as I do, no other dependency on my special person than is alike to
us all upon that which is above us. But I would desire to cast this golden ball into your master's
lap. He hath served against this Charles Stewart and his father. But he is a kinsman near to
the old knight Lee, and stands well affected towards his daughter. Thou also wilt keep a watch,
my friend--that ruffling look of thine will procure thee the confidence of every malignant,
and the prey cannot approach this cover, as though to shelter, like a coney in the rocks, but
thou wilt be sensible of his presence."

"I make a shift to comprehend your Excellency," said the cavalier; "and I thank you heartily
for the good opinion you have put upon me, and which, I pray I may have some handsome opportunity
of deserving, that I may show my gratitude by the event. But still, with reverence, your Excellency's
scheme seems unlikely, while Woodstock remains in possession of the sequestrators. Both the
old knight and his son, and far more such a fugitive as your honor hinted at, will take special
care not to approach it till they are removed."

"It is for that I have been dealing with thee thus long," said the General.--"I told thee that
I was something unwilling, upon slight occasion, to dispossess the sequestrators by my own
proper warrant, although having, perhaps, sufficient authority in the state both to do so,
and to despise the murmurs of those who blame me. In brief, I would be both to tamper with
my privileges, and make experiments between their strength, and the powers of the commission
granted by others, without pressing need, or at least great prospect of advantage. So, if thy
Colonel will undertake, for his love of the Republic, to find the means of preventing its worst
and nearest danger, which must needs occur from the escape of this young Man, and will do his
endeavour to stay him, in case his flight should lead him to Woodstock, which I hold very likely,
I will give thee an order to these sequestrators, to evacuate the palace instantly; and to
the next troop of my regiment, which lies at Oxford, to turn them out by the shoulders, if
they make any scruples--Ay, even, for example's sake, if they drag Desborough out foremost,
though he be wedded to my sister."

"So please you, sir," said Wildrake, "and with your most powerful warrant, I trust I might
expel the commissioners, even without the aid of your most warlike and devout troopers."

"That is what I am least anxious about," replied the General; "I should like to see the best
of them sit after I had nodded to them to begone-- always excepting the worshipful House, in
whose name our commissions run; but who, as some think, will be done with politics ere it be
time to renew them. Therefore, what chiefly concerns me to know, is, whether thy master will
embrace a traffic which hath such a fair promise of profit with it. I am well convinced that,
with a scout like thee, who hast been in the cavaliers' quarters, and canst, I should guess,
resume thy drinking, ruffianly, health-quaffing manners whenever thou hast a mind, he must
discover where this Stewart hath ensconced himself. Either the young Lee will visit the old
one in person, or he will write to him, or hold communication with him by letter. At all events,
Markham Everard and thou must have an eye in every hair of your head." While he spoke, a flush
passed over his brow, he rose from his chair, and paced the apartment in agitation. "Woe to
you, if you suffer the young adventurer to escape me!--you had better be in the deepest dungeon
in Europe, than breathe the air of England, should you but dream of playing me false. I have
spoken freely to thee, fellow--more freely than is my wont--the time required it. But, to share
my confidence is like keeping a watch over a powder-magazine, the least and most insignificant
spark blows thee to ashes. Tell your master what I said--but not how I said it--Fie, that I
should have been betrayed into this distemperature of passion!-- begone, sirrah. Pearson shall
bring thee sealed orders--Yet, stay--thou hast something to ask."

"I would know," said Wildrake, to whom the visible anxiety of the General gave some confidence,
"what is the figure of this young gallant, in case I should find him?"

"A tall, rawboned, swarthy lad, they say he has shot up into. Here is his picture by a good
hand, some time since." He turned round one of the portraits which stood with its face against
the wall; but it proved not to be that of Charles the Second, but of his unhappy father.

The first motion of Cromwell indicated a purpose of hastily replacing the picture, and it seemed
as if an effort were necessary to repress his disinclination to look upon it. But he did repress
it, and, placing the picture against the wall, withdrew slowly and sternly, as if, in defiance
of his own feelings, he was determined to gain a place from which to see it to advantage. It
was well for Wildrake that his dangerous companion had not turned an eye on him, for his blood
also kindled when he saw the portrait of his master in the hands of the chief author of his
death. Being a fierce and desperate man, he commanded his passion with great difficulty; and
if, on its first violence, he had been provided with a suitable weapon, it is possible Cromwell
would never have ascended higher in his bold ascent towards supreme power.

But this natural and sudden flash of indignation, which rushed through the veins of an ordinary
man like Wildrake, was presently subdued, when confronted with the strong yet stifled emotion
displayed by so powerful a character as Cromwell. As the cavalier looked on his dark and bold
countenance, agitated by inward and indescribable feelings, he found his own violence of spirit
die away and lose itself in fear and wonder. So true it is, that as greater lights swallow
up and extinguish the display of those which are less, so men of great, capacious, and overruling
minds, bear aside and subdue, in their climax of passion, the more feeble wills and passions
of others; as, when a river joins a brook, the fiercer torrent shoulders aside the smaller stream.

Wildrake stood a silent, inactive, and almost a terrified spectator, while Cromwell, assuming
a firm sternness of eye and manner, as one who compels himself to look on what some strong
internal feeling renders painful and disgustful to him, proceeded, in brief and interrupted
expressions, but yet with a firm voice, to comment on the portrait of the late King. His words
seemed less addressed to Wildrake, than to be the spontaneous unburdening of his own bosom,
swelling under recollection of the past and anticipation of the future.

"That Flemish painter" he said--"that Antonio Vandyck--what a power he has! Steel may mutilate,
warriors may waste and destroy--still the King stands uninjured by time; and our grandchildren,
while they read his history, may look on his image, and compare the melancholy features with
the woful tale.--It was a stern necessity--it was an awful deed! The calm pride of that eye
might have ruled worlds of crouching Frenchmen, or supple Italians, or formal Spaniards; but
its glances only roused the native courage of the stern Englishman.--Lay not on poor sinful
man, whose breath is in, his nostrils, the blame that he falls, when Heaven never gave him
strength of nerves to stand! The weak rider is thrown by his unruly horse, and trampled to
death--the strongest man, the best cavalier, springs to the empty saddle, and uses bit and
spur till the fiery steed knows its master. Who blames him, who, mounted aloft, rides triumphantly
amongst the people, for having succeeded, where the unskilful and feeble fell and died? Verily
he hath his reward: Then, what is that piece of painted canvas to me more than others? No;
let him show to others the reproaches of that cold, calm face, that proud yet complaining eye:
Those who have acted on higher respects have no cause to start at painted shadows. Not wealth
nor power brought me from my obscurity. The oppressed consciences, the injured liberties of
England, were the banner that I followed."

He raised his voice so high, as if pleading in his own defence before some tribunal, that Pearson,
the officer in attendance, looked into the apartment; and observing his master, with his eyes
kindling, his arm extended, his foot advanced, and his voice raised, like a general in the
act of commanding the advance of his army, he instantly withdrew.

"It was other than selfish regards that drew me forth to action," continued Cromwell, "and
I dare the world--ay, living or dead I challenge--to assert that I armed for a private cause,
or as a means of enlarging my fortunes. Neither was there a trooper in the regiment who came
there with less of personal ill will to yonder unhappy"--

At this moment the door of the apartment opened, and a gentlewoman entered, who, from her resemblance
to the General, although her features were soft and feminine, might be immediately recognised
as his daughter. She walked up to Cromwell, gently but firmly passed her arm through his, and
said to him in a persuasive tone, "Father, this is not well--you have promised me this should
not happen."

The General hung down his head, like one who was either ashamed of the passion to which he
had given way, or of the influence which was exercised over him. He yielded, however, to the
affectionate impulse, and left the apartment, without again turning his head towards the portrait
which had so much affected him, or looking towards Wildrake, who remained fixed in astonishment.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE NINTH.

  Doctor.--Go to, go to,--You have known what you should not.
   MACBETH.

Wildrake was left in the cabinet, as we have said, astonished and alone. It was often noised
about, that Cromwell, the deep and sagacious statesman, the calm and intrepid commander, he
who had overcome such difficulties, and ascended to such heights, that he seemed already to
bestride the land which he had conquered, had, like many other men of great genius, a constitutional
taint of melancholy, which sometimes displayed itself both in words and actions, and had been
first observed in that sudden and striking change, when, abandoning entirely the dissolute
freaks of his youth, he embraced a very strict course of religious observances, which, upon
some occasions, he seemed to consider as bringing him into more near and close contact with
the spiritual world. This extraordinary man is said sometimes, during that period of his life,
to have given way to spiritual delusions, or, as he himself conceived them, prophetic inspirations
of approaching grandeur, and of strange, deep, and mysterious agencies, in which he was in
future to be engaged, in the same manner as his younger years had been marked by fits of exuberant
and excessive frolic and debaucheries. Something of this kind seemed to explain the ebullition
of passion which he had now manifested.

With wonder at what he had witnessed, Wildrake felt some anxiety on his own account. Though
not the most reflecting of mortals, he had sense enough to know, that it is dangerous to be
a witness of the infirmities of men high in power; and he was left so long by himself, as induced
him to entertain some secret doubts, whether the General might not be tempted to take means
of confining or removing a witness, who had seen him lowered, as it seemed, by the suggestions
of his own conscience, beneath that lofty flight, which, in general, he affected to sustain
above the rest of the sublunary world.

In this, however, he wronged Cromwell, who was free either from an extreme degree of jealous
suspicion, or from any thing which approached towards blood-thirstiness. Pearson appeared,
after a lapse of about an hour, and, intimating to Wildrake that he was to follow, conducted
him into a distant apartment, in which he found the General seated on a couch. His daughter
was in the apartment, but remained at some distance, apparently busied with some female needle-work,
and scarce turned her head as Pearson and Wildrake entered.

At a sign from the Lord-General, Wildrake approached him as before. "Comrade," he said, "your
old friends the cavaliers look on me as their enemy, and conduct themselves towards me as if
they desired to make me such. I profess they are labouring to their own prejudice; for I regard,
and have ever regarded them, as honest and honourable fools, who were silly enough to run their
necks into nooses and their heads against stonewalls, that a man called Stewart, and no other,
should be king over them. Fools! are there no words made of letters that would sound as well
as Charles Stewart, with that magic title beside them? Why, the word King is like a lighted
lamp, that throws the same bright gilding upon any combination of the alphabet, and yet you
must shed your blood for a name! But thou, for thy part, shalt have no wrong from me. Here
is an order, well warranted, to clear the Lodge at Woodstock, and abandon it to thy master's
keeping, or those whom he shall appoint. He will have his uncle and pretty cousin with him,
doubtless. Fare thee well--think on what I told thee. They say beauty is a loadstone to yonder
long lad thou dost wot of; but I reckon he has other stars at present to direct his course
than bright eyes and fair hair. Be it as it may, thou knowst my purpose--peer out, peer out;
keep a constant and careful look-out on every ragged patch that wanders by hedge-row or lane--these
are days when a beggar's cloak may cover a king's ransom. There are some broad Portugal pieces
for thee--something strange to thy pouch, I ween.--Once more, think on what thou hast heard,
and," he added, in a lower and more impressive tone of voice, "forget what thou hast seen.
My service to thy master;--and, yet once again, remember--and forget."--Wildrake made his obeisance,
and, returning to his inn, left Windsor with all possible speed.

It was afternoon in the same day when the cavalier rejoined his round-head friend, who was
anxiously expecting him at the inn in Woodstock appointed for their rendezvous.

"Where hast thou been?--what hast thou seen?--what strange uncertainty is in thy looks?--and
why dost thou not answer me?"

"Because," said Wildrake, laying aside his riding cloak and rapier, "you ask so many questions
at once. A man has but one tongue to answer with, and mine is well-nigh glued to the roof of
my mouth."

"Will drink unloosen it?" said the Colonel; "though I dare say thou hast tried that spell at
every ale-house on the road. Call for what thou wouldst have, man, only be quick."

"Colonel Everard," answered Wildrake, "I have not tasted so much as a cup of cold water this day."

"Then thou art out of humour for that reason," said the Colonel; "salve thy sore with brandy,
if thou wilt, but leave being so fantastic and unlike to thyself, as thou showest in this silent
mood."

"Colonel Everard," replied the cavalier, very gravely, "I am an altered man."

"I think thou dost alter," said Everard, "every day in the year, and every hour of the day.
Come, good now, tell me, hast thou seen the General, and got his warrant for clearing out the
sequestrators from Woodstock?"

"I have seen the devil," said Wildrake, "and have, as thou say'st, got a warrant from him."

"Give it me hastily," said Everard, catching at the packet.

"Forgive me, Mark," said Wildrake; "if thou knewest the purpose with which this deed is granted--if
thou knewest--what it is not my purpose to tell thee--what manner of hopes are founded on thy
accepting it, I have that opinion of thee, Mark Everard, that thou wouldst as soon take a red-hot
horse-shoe from the anvil with thy bare hand, as receive into it this slip of paper."

"Come, come," said Everard, "this comes of some of your exalted ideas of loyalty, which, excellent
within certain bounds, drive us mad when encouraged up to some heights. Do not think, since
I must needs speak plainly with thee, that I see without sorrow the downfall of our ancient
monarchy, and the substitution of another form of government in its stead; but ought my regret
for the past to prevent my acquiescing and aiding in such measures as are likely to settle
the future? The royal cause is ruined, hadst thou and every cavalier in England sworn the contrary;
ruined, not to rise again--for many a day at least. The Parliament, so often draughted and
drained of those who were courageous enough to maintain their own freedom of opinion, is now
reduced to a handful of statesmen, who have lost the respect of the people, from the length
of time during which they have held the supreme management of affairs. They cannot stand long
unless they were to reduce the army; and the army, late servants, are now masters, and will
refuse to be reduced. They know their strength, and that they may be an army subsisting on
pay and free quarters throughout England as long as they will. I tell thee, Wildrake, unless
we look to the only man who can rule and manage them, we may expect military law throughout
the land; and I, for mine own part, look for any preservation of our privileges that may be
vouchsafed to us, only through the wisdom and forbearance of Cromwell. Now you have my secret.
You are aware that I am not doing the best I would, but the best I can. I wish--not so ardently
as thou, perhaps--yet I do wish that the King could have been restored on good terms of composition,
safe for us and for himself. And now, good Wildrake, rebel as thou thinkest me, make me no
worse a rebel than an unwilling one. God knows, I never laid aside love and reverence to the
King, even in drawing my sword against his ill advisers."

"Ah, plague on you," said Wildrake, "that is the very cant of it--that's what you all say.
All of you fought against the King in pure love and loyalty, and not otherwise. However, I
see your drift, and I own that I like it better than I expected. The army is your bear now,
and old Noll is your bearward; and you are like a country constable, who makes interest with
the bearward that he may prevent him from letting bruin loose. Well, there may come a day when
the sun will shine on our side of the fence, and thereon shall you, and all the good fair-weather
folks who love the stronger party, come and make common cause with us."

Without much attending to what his friend said, Colonel Everard carefully studied the warrant
of Cromwell. "It is bolder and more peremptory than I expected," he said. "The General must
feel himself strong, when he opposes his own authority so directly to that of the Council of
State and the Parliament."

"You will not hesitate to act upon it?" said Wildrake.

"That I certainly will not," answered Everard; "but I must wait till I have the assistance
of the Mayor, who, I think, will gladly see these fellows ejected from the Lodge. I must not
go altogether upon military authority, if possible." Then, stepping to the door of the apartment,
he despatched a servant of the house in quest of the Chief Magistrate, desiring he should be
made acquainted that Colonel Everard desired to see him with as little loss of time as possible.

"You are sure he will come, like a dog at a whistle," said Wildrake. "The word captain, or
colonel, makes the fat citizen trot in these days, when one sword is worth fifty corporation
charters. But there are dragoons yonder, as well as the grim-faced knave whom I frightened
the other evening when I showed my face in at the window. Think'st thou the knaves will show
no rough play?"

"The General's warrant will weigh more with them than a dozen acts of Parliament," said Everard.--"But
it is time thou eatest, if thou hast in truth ridden from Windsor hither without baiting."

"I care not about it," said Wildrake: "I tell thee, your General gave me a breakfast, which,
I think, will serve me one while, if I am ever able to digest it. By the mass, it lay so heavy
on my conscience, that I carried it to church to see if I could digest it there with my other
sins. But not a whit."

"To church!--to the door of the church, thou meanest," said Everard. "I know thy way--thou
art ever wont to pull thy hat off reverently at the threshold; but for crossing it, that day
seldom comes."

"Well," replied Wildrake, "and if I do pull off my castor and kneel, is it not seemly to show
the same respects in a church which we offer in a palace? It is a dainty matter, is it not,
to see your Anabaptists, and Brownists, and the rest of you, gather to a sermon with as little
ceremony as hogs to a trough! But here comes food, and now for a grace, if I can remember one."

Everard was too much interested about the fate of his uncle and his fair cousin, and the prospect
of restoring them to their quiet home, under the protection of that formidable truncheon which
was already regarded as the leading-staff of England, to remark, that certainly a great alteration
had taken place in the manners and outward behaviour at least of his companion. His demeanour
frequently evinced a sort of struggle betwixt old habits of indulgence, and some newly formed
resolutions of abstinence; and it was almost ludicrous to see how often the hand of the neophyte
directed itself naturally to a large black leathern jack, which contained two double flagons
of strong ale, and how often, diverted from its purpose by the better reflections of the reformed
toper, it seized, instead, upon a large ewer of salubrious and pure water.

It was not difficult to see that the task of sobriety was not yet become easy, and that, if
it had the recommendation of the intellectual portion of the party who had resolved upon it,
the outward man yielded a reluctant and restive compliance. But honest Wildrake had been dreadfully
frightened at the course proposed to him by Cromwell, and, with a feeling not peculiar to the
Catholic religion, had formed a solemn resolution within his own mind, that, if he came off
safe and with honour from this dangerous interview, he would show his sense of Heaven's favour,
by renouncing some of the sins which most easily beset him, and especially that of intemperance,
to which, like many of his wild compeers, he was too much addicted.

This resolution, or vow, was partly prudential as well as religious; for it occurred to him
as very possible, that some matters of a difficult and delicate nature might be thrown into
his hands at the present emergency, during the conduct of which it would be fitting for him
to act by some better oracle than that of the Bottle, celebrated by Rabelais. In full compliance
with this prudent determination, he touched neither the ale nor the brandy which were placed
before him, and declined peremptorily the sack with which his friend would have garnished the
board. Nevertheless, just as the boy removed the trenchers and napkins, together with the large
black-jack which we have already mentioned, and was one or two steps on his way to the door,
the sinewy arm of the cavalier, which seemed to elongate itself on purpose, (as it extended
far beyond the folds of the threadbare jacket,) arrested the progress of the retiring Ganymede,
and seizing on the black-jack, conveyed it to the lips, which were gently breathing forth the
aspiration, "D--n--I mean. Heaven forgive me--we are poor creatures of clay--one modest sip
must be permitted to our frailty."

So murmuring, he glued the huge flagon to his lips, and as the head was slowly and gradually
inclined backwards, in proportion as the right hand elevated the bottom of the pitcher, Everard
had great doubts whether the drinker and the cup were likely to part until the whole contents
of the latter had been transferred to the person of the former. Roger Wildrake stinted, however,
when, by a moderate computation, he had swallowed at one draught about a quart and a half.

He then replaced it on the salver, fetched a long breath to refresh his lungs, bade the boy
get him gone with the rest of the liquors, in a tone which inferred some dread of his constancy,
and then, turning to his friend Everard, he expatiated in praise of moderation, observing,
that the mouthful which he had just taken had been of more service to him than if he had remained
quaffing healths at table for four hours together.

His friend made no reply, but could not help being privately of opinion that Wildrake's temperance
had done as much execution on the tankard in his single draught, as some more moderate topers
might have effected if they had sat sipping for an evening. But the subject was changed by
the entrance of the landlord, who came to announce to his honour Colonel Everard, that the
worshipful Mayor of Woodstock, with the Rev. Master Holdenough, were come to wait upon him.

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE TENTH.

                 Here we have one head
  Upon two bodies,--your two-headed bullock
  Is but an ass to such a prodigy.

  These two have but one meaning, thought, and counsel:
  And when the single noddle has spoke out,
  The four legs scrape assent to it.
                                            OLD PLAY.

In the goodly form of the honest Mayor, there was a bustling mixture of importance and embarrassment,
like the deportment of a man who was conscious that he had an important part to act, if he
could but exactly discover what that part was. But both were mingled with much pleasure at
seeing Everard, and he frequently repeated his welcomes and all-hails before he could be brought
to attend to what that gentleman said in reply.

"Good, worthy Colonel, you are indeed a desirable sight to Woodstock at all times, being, as
I may say, almost our townsman, as you have dwelt so much and so long at the palace. Truly,
the matter begins almost to pass my wit, though I have transacted the affairs of this borough
for many a long day; and you are come to my assistance like, like"--

"Tanquam Deus ex machina, as the Ethnic poet hath it," said Master Holdenough, "although I
do not often quote from such books.--Indeed, Master Markham Everard,--or worthy Colonel, as
I ought rather to say--you are simply the most welcome man who has come to Woodstock since
the days of old King Harry."

"I had some business with you, my good friend," said the Colonel, addressing the Mayor; "I
shall be glad if it should so happen at the same time, that I may find occasion to pleasure
you or your worthy pastor."

"No question you can do so, good sir;" interposed Master Holdenough; "you have the heart, sir,
and you have the hand; and we are much in want of good counsel, and that from a man of action.
I am aware, worthy Colonel, that you and your worthy father have ever borne yourselves in these
turmoils like men of a truly Christian and moderate spirit, striving to pour oil into the wounds
of the land, which some would rub with vitriol and pepper: and we know you are faithful children
of that church which we have reformed from its papistical and prelatical tenets."

"My good and reverend friend," said Everard, "I respect the piety and learning of many of your
teachers; but I am also for liberty of conscience to all men. I neither side with sectaries,
nor do I desire to see them the object of suppression by violence."

"Sir, sir," said the Presbyterian, hastily, "all this hath a fair sound; but I would you should
think what a fine country and church we are like to have of it, amidst the errors, blasphemies,
and schisms, which are daily introduced into the church and kingdom of England, so that worthy
Master Edwards, in his Gangrena, declareth, that our native country is about to become the
very sink and cess-pool of all schisms, heresies, blasphemies, and confusions, as the army
of Hannibal was said to be the refuse of all nations--Colluvies omnium gentium.--Believe me,
worthy Colonel, that they of the Honourable House view all this over lightly, and with the
winking connivance of old Eli. These instructors, the schismatics, shoulder the orthodox ministers
out of their pulpits, thrust themselves into families, and break up the peace thereof, stealing
away men's hearts from the established faith."

"My good Master Holdenough," replied the Colonel, interrupting the zealous preacher, "there
is ground of sorrow for all these unhappy discords; and I hold with you, that the fiery spirits
of the present time have raised men's minds at once above sober-minded and sincere religion,
and above decorum and common sense. But there is no help save patience. Enthusiasm is a stream
that may foam off in its own time, whereas it is sure to bear down every barrier which is directly
opposed to it.--But what are these schismatical proceedings to our present purpose?"

"Why, partly this, sir," said Holdenough, "although perhaps you may make less of it than I
should have thought before we met.--I was myself--I, Nehemiah Holdenough, (he added consequentially,)
was forcibly expelled from my own pulpit, even as a man should have been thrust out of his
own house, by an alien, and an intruder--a wolf, who was not at the trouble even to put on
sheep's clothing, but came in his native wolfish attire of buff and bandalier, and held forth
in my stead to the people, who are to me as a flock to the lawful shepherd. It is too true,
sir--Master Mayor saw it, and strove to take such order to prevent it as man might, though,"
turning to the Mayor, "I think still you might have striven a little more."

"Good now, good Master Holdenough, do not let us go back on that question," said the Mayor.
"Guy of Warwick, or Bevis of Hampton, might do something with this generation; but truly, they
are too many and too strong for the Mayor of Woodstock."

"I think Master Mayor speaks very good sense," said the Colonel; "if the Independents are not
allowed to preach, I fear me they will not fight;--and then if you were to have another rising
of cavaliers?"

"There are worse folks may rise than cavaliers," said Holdenough.

"How, sir?" replied Colonel Everard. "Let me remind you, Master Holdenough, that is no safe
language in the present state of the nation."

"I say," said the Presbyterian, "there are worse folk may rise than cavaliers; and I will prove
what I say. The devil is worse than the worst cavalier that ever drank a health, or swore an
oath--and the devil has arisen at Woodstock Lodge!"

"Ay, truly hath he," said the Mayor, "bodily and visibly, in figure and form--An awful time
we live in!"

"Gentlemen, I really know not how I am to understand you," said Everard.

"Why, it was even about the devil we came to speak with you," said the Mayor; "but the worthy
minister is always so hot upon the sectaries"--

"Which are the devil's brats, and nearly akin to him," said Master Holdenough. "But true it
is, that the growth of these sects has brought up the Evil One even upon the face of the earth,
to look after his own interest, where he finds it most thriving."

"Master Holdenough," said the Colonel, "if you speak figuratively, I have already told you
that I have neither the means nor the skill sufficient to temper these religious heats. But
if you design to say that there has been an actual apparition of the devil, I presume to think
that you, with your doctrine and your learning, would be a fitter match for him than a soldier
like me."

