A THORNY PATH

By Georg Ebers

Volume 12.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

Caracalla's evening meal was ended, and for years past his friends had never seen the gloomy
monarch in so mad a mood.  The high-priest of Serapis, with Dio Cassius the senator, and a
few others of his suite, had not indeed appeared at table; but the priest of Alexander, the
prefect Macrinus, his favorites Theocritus, Pandion, Antigonus, and others of their kidney,
had crowded round him, had drunk to his health, and wished him joy of his glorious revenge.

Everything which legend or history had recorded of similar deeds was compared with this day's
work, and it was agreed that it transcended them all.  This delighted the half-drunken monarch.
To-day, he declared with flashing eyes, and not till to-day, he had dared to be entirely what
Fate had called him to be--at once the judge and the executioner of an accursed and degenerate
race.  As Titus had been named "the Good," so he would be called "the Terrible."  And this
day had secured him that grand name, so pleasing to his inmost heart.

"Hail to the benevolent sovereign who would fain be terrible!" cried Theocritus, raising his
cup; and the rest of the guests echoed him.

Then the number of the slain was discussed.  No one could estimate it exactly.  Zminis, the
only man who could have seen everything, had not appeared: Fifty, sixty, seventy thousand Alexandrians
were supposed to have suffered death; Macrinus, however, asserted that there must have been
more than a hundred thousand, and Caracalla rewarded him for his statement by exclaiming loudly
"Splendid!  grand!  Hardly comprehensible by the vulgar mind!  But, even so, it is not the
end of what I mean to give them.  To-day I have racked their limbs; but I have yet to strike
them to the heart, as they have stricken me!"

He ceased, and after a short pause repeated unhesitatingly, and as though by a sudden impulse,
the lines with which Euripides ends several of his tragedies:

              "Jove in high heaven dispenses various fates;
               And now the gods shower blessings which our hope
               Dared not aspire to, now control the ills
               We deemed inevitable.  Thus the god
               To these hath given an end we never thought."

                                        --Potter's translation.

And this was the end of the revolting scene, for, as he spoke, Caesar pushed away his cup and
sat staring into vacancy, so pale that his physician, foreseeing a fresh attack, brought out
his medicine vial.

The praetorian prefect gave a signal to the rest that they should not notice the change in
their imperial host, and he did his best to keep the conversation going, till Caracalla, after
a long pause, wiped his brow and exclaimed hoarsely: "What has become of the Egyptian?  He
was to bring in the living prisoners--the living, I say!  Let him bring me them."

He struck the table by his couch violently with his fist; and then, as if the clatter of the
metal vessels on it had brought him to himself, he added, meditatively: "A hundred thousand!
If they burned their dead here, it would take a forest to reduce them to ashes."

"This day will cost him dear enough as it is," the high-priest of Alexander whispered; he,
as idiologos, having to deposit the tribute from the temples and their estates in the imperial
treasury.  He addressed his neighbor, old Julius Paulinus, who replied:

"Charon is doing the best business to-day.  A hundred thousand obolus in a few hours.  If Tarautas
reigns over us much longer, I will farm his ferry!"

During this whispered dialogue Theocritus the favorite was assuring Caesar in a loud voice
that the possessions of the victims would suffice for any form of interment, and an ample number
of thank-offerings into the bargain.

"An offering!"  echoed Caracalla, and he pointed to a short sword which lay beside him on the
couch.  "That helped in the work.  My father wielded it in many a fight, and I have not let
it rust.  Still, I doubt whether in my hands and his together it ever before yesterday slaughtered
a hundred thousand."

He looked round for the high-priest of Serapis, and after seeking him in vain among the guests,
he exclaimed:

"The revered Timotheus withdraws his countenance from us to-day.  Yet it was to his god that
I dedicated the work of vengeance.  He laments the loss of worshipers to great Serapis, as
you, Vertinus"--and he turned to the idiologos--"regret the slain tax-payers.  Well, you are
thinking of my loss or gain, and that I can not but praise.  Your colleague in the service
of Serapis has nothing to care for but the honor of his god; but he does not succeed in rising
to the occasion.  Poor wretch!  I will give him a lesson.  Here Epagathos, and you, Claudius--go
at once to Timotheus; carry him this sword.  I devote it to his god.  It is to be preserved
in his holy of holies, in memory of the greatest act of vengeance ever known.  If Timotheus
should refuse the gift--But no, he has sense--he knows me!"

He paused, and turned to look at Macrinus, who had risen to speak to some officials and soldiers
who had entered the room.  They brought the news that the Parthian envoys had broken off all
negotiations, and had left the city in the afternoon.  They would enter into no alliance, and
were prepared to meet the Roman army.

Macrinus repeated this to Caesar with a shrug of his shoulders, but he withheld the remark
added by the venerable elder of the ambassadors, that they did not fear a foe who by so vile
a deed had incurred the wrath of the gods.

"Then it is war with the Parthians!" cried Caracalla, and his eyes flashed.  "My breast-plated
favorites will rejoice."

But then he looked grave, and inquired: "They are leaving the town, you say?  But are they
birds?  The gates and harbor are closed."

"A small Phoenician vessel stole out just before sundown between our guard-ships," was the
reply.  "Curse it!" broke from Caesar's lips in a loud voice, and, after a brief dialogue in
an undertone with the prefect, he desired to have papyrus and writing materials brought to
him.  He himself must inform the senate of what had occurred, and he did so in a few words.

He did not know the number of the slain, and he did not think it worth while to make a rough
estimate.  All the Alexandrians, he said, had in fact merited death.  A swift trireme was to
carry the letter to Ostia at daybreak.

He did not, indeed, ask the opinion of the senate, and yet he felt that it would be better
that news of the day's events should reach the curia under his own hand than through the distorting
medium of rumor.

Nor did Macrinus impress on him, as usual, that he should give his dispatch a respectful form.
This crime, if anything, might help him to the fulfillment of the Magian's prophecy.

As Caesar was rolling up his missive, the long-expected Zminis came into the room.  He had
attired himself splendidly, and bore the insignia of his new office.  He humbly begged to be
pardoned for his long delay.  He had had to make his outer man fit to appear among Caesar's
guests, for-- as he boastfully explained--he himself had waded in blood, and in the court-yard
of the Museum the red life-juice of the Alexandrians had reached above his horse's knees. 
The number of the dead, he declared with sickening pride, was above a hundred thousand, as
estimated by the prefect.

"Then we will call it eleven myriad," Caracalla broke in.  "Now, we have had enough of the
dead.  Bring in the living."

"Whom?" asked the Egyptian, in surprise.  Hereupon Caesar's eyelids began to quiver, and in
a threatening tone he reminded his bloody-handed tool of those whom he had ordered him to take
alive.  Still Zminis was silent, and Caesar furiously shrieked his demand as to whether by
his blundering Heron's daughter had escaped; whether he could not produce the gem-cutter and
his son.  The blood-stained butcher then perceived that Caesar's murderous sword might be turned
against him also.  Still, he was prepared to defend himself by every means in his power.  His
brain was inventive, and, seeing that the fault for which he would least easily be forgiven
was the failure to capture Melissa, he tried to screen himself by a lie. Relying on an incident
which he himself had witnessed, he began: "I felt certain of securing the gem-cutter's pretty
daughter, for my men had surrounded his house.  But it had come to the ears of these Alexandrian
scoundrels that a son of Heron's, a painter, and his sister, had betrayed their fellow-citizens
and excited your wrath.  It was to them that they ascribed the punishment which I executed
upon them in your name.  This rabble have no notion of reflection; before we could hinder them
they had rushed on the innocent dwelling.  They flung fire-brands into it, burned it, and tore
it down.  Any one who was within perished, and thus the daughter of Heron died.  That is, unfortunately,
proved.  I can take the old man and his son tomorrow.  To-day I have had so much to do that
there has not been time to bind the sheaves.  It is said that they had escaped before the mob
rushed on the house."

"And the gem-cutter's daughter?" asked Caracalla, in a trembling voice. "You are sure she was
burned in the building?"

"As sure as that I have zealously endeavored to let the Alexandrians feel your avenging hand,"
replied the Egyptian resolutely, and with a bold face he confirmed his he.  "I have here the
jewel she wore on her arm. It was found on the charred body in the cellar.  Adventus, your
chamberlain, says that Melissa received it yesterday as a gift from you. Here it is."

And he handed Caracalla the serpent-shaped bracelet which Caesar had sent to his sweetheart
before setting out for the Circus.  The fire had damaged it, but there was no mistaking it.
It had been found beneath the ruins on a human arm, and Zminis had only learned from the chamberlain,
to whom he had shown it, that it had belonged to the daughter of Heron.

"Even the features  of the corpse," Zminis added, "were still recognizable."

"The corpse!" Caesar echoed gloomily.  "And it was the Alexandrians, you say, who destroyed
the house?"

"Yes, my lord; a raging mob, and mingled with them men of every race- Jews, Greeks, Syrians,
what not.  Most of them had lost a father, a son, or a brother, sent to Hades by your vengeance.
Their wildest curses were for Alexander, the painter, who in fact had played the spy for you.
But the Macedonian phalanx arrived at the right moment.  They killed most of them and took
some prisoners.  You can see them yourself in the morning. As regards the wife of Seleukus--"

"Well," exclaimed Caesar, and his eye brightened again.

"She fell a victim to the clumsiness of the praetorians."

"Indeed!" interrupted the legate Quintus Flavius Nobilior, who had granted Alexander's life
to the prayer of the twins Aurelius; and Macrinus also forbade any insulting observations as
to the blameless troops whom he had the honor to command.

But the Egyptian was not to be checked; he went on eagerly: "Pardon, my lords.  It is perfectly
certain, nevertheless, that it was a praetorian-- his name is Rufus, and he belongs to the
second cohort--who pierced the lady Berenike with his spear."

Flavius here begged to be allowed to speak, and reported how Berenike had sought and found
her end.  And he did so as though he were narrating the death of a heroine, but he added, in
a tone of disapproval: "Unhappily, the misguided woman died with a curse on you, great Caesar,
on her treasonable lips."

"And this female hero finds her Homer in you!" cried Caesar.  "We will speak together again,
my Quintus."

He raised a brimming cup to his lips and emptied it at a draught; then, setting it on the table
with such violence that it rang, he exclaimed "Then you have brought me none of those whom
I commanded you to capture? Even the feeble girl who had not quitted her father's house you
allowed to be murdered by those coarse monsters!  And you think I shall look on you with favor?
By this time to-morrow the gem-cutter and his son Alexander are here before me, or by the head
of my divine father you go to the wild beasts in the Circus."

"They will not eat such as he," observed old Julius Paulinus, and Caesar nodded approvingly.
The Egyptian shuddered, for this imperial nod showed him by how slender a thread his life hung.

In a flash he reflected whither he might fly if he should fail to find this hated couple. 
If, after all, he should discover Melissa alive, so much the better.  Then, he might have been
mistaken in identifying the body; some slave girl might have stolen the bracelet and put it
on before the house was burned down.  He knew for a fact that the charred corpse of which he
had spoken was that of a street wench who had rushed among the foremost into the house of the
much-envied imperial favorite--the traitress--and had met her death in the spreading flames.

Zminis had but a moment to rack his inventive and prudent brain, but he already had thought
of something which might perhaps influence Caesar in his favor.  Of all the Alexandrians, the
members of the Museum were those whom Caracalla hated most.  He had been particularly enjoined
not to spare one of them; and in the course of the ride which Caesar, attended by the armed
troopers of Arsinoe, had taken through the streets streaming with blood, he had stayed longest
gazing at the heap of corpses in the court-yard of the Museum.  In the portico, a colonnade
copied from the Stoa at Athens, whither a dozen or so of the philosophers had fled when attacked,
he had even stabbed several with his own hand.  The blood on the sword which Caracalla had
dedicated to Serapis had been shed at the Museum.

The Egyptian had himself led the massacre here, and had seen that it was thoroughly effectual.
The mention of those slaughtered hair-splitters must, if anything, be likely to mitigate Caesar's
wrath; so no sooner had the applause died away with which the proconsul's jest at his expense
had been received, than Zminis began to give his report of the great massacre in the Museum.
He could boast of having spared scarcely one of the empty word-pickers with whom the epigrams
against Caesar and his mother had originated.  Teachers and pupils, even the domestic officials,
had been overtaken by the insulted sovereign's vengeance.  Nothing was left but the stones
of that great institution, which had indeed long outlived its fame.  The Numidians who had
helped in the work had been drunk with blood, and had forced their way even into the physician's
lecture-rooms and the hospital adjoining.  There, too, they had given no quarter; and among
the sufferers who had been carried thither to be healed they had found Tarautas, the wounded
gladiator.  A Numidian, the youngest of the legion, a beardless youth, had pinned the terrible
conqueror of lions and men to the bed with his spear, and then, with the same weapon, had released
at least a dozen of his fellow-sufferers from their pain.

As he told his story the Egyptian stood staring into vacancy, as though he saw it all, and
the whites of his eyeballs gleamed more hideously than ever out of his swarthy face.  The lean,
sallow wretch stood before Caesar like a talking corpse, and did not observe the effect his
narrative of the gladiator's death was producing.  But he soon found out.  While he was yet
speaking, Caracalla, leaning on the table by his couch with both hands, fixed his eyes on his
face, without a word.

Then he suddenly sprang up, and, beside himself with rage, he interrupted the terrified Egyptian
and railed at him furiously:

"My Tarautas, who had so narrowly escaped death!  The bravest hero of his kind basely murdered
on his sick-bed, by a barbarian, a beardless boy!  And you, you loathsome jackal, could allow
it?  This deed--and you know it, villain--will be set down to my score.  It will be brought
up against me to the end of my days in Rome, in the provinces, everywhere. I shall be cursed
for your crime wherever there is a human heart to throb and feel, and a human tongue to speak.
And I--when did I ever order you to slake your thirst for blood in that of the sick and suffering?
Never! I could never have done such a thing!  I even told you to spare the women and helpless
slaves.  You are all witnesses, But you all hear me-- I will punish the murderer of the wretched
sick!  I will avenge you, foully murdered, brave, noble Tarautas!--Here, lictors!  Bind him--away
with him to the Circus with the criminals thrown to the wild beasts!  He allowed the girl whose
life I bade him spare to be burned to death before his eyes, and the hapless sick were slain
at his command by a beardless boy!--And Tarautas!  I valued him as I do all who are superior
to their kind; I cared for him.  He was wounded for our entertainment, my friends. Poor fellow--poor,
brave Tarautas!"

He here broke into loud sobs, and it was so unheard-of, so incomprehensible a thing that this
man should weep who, even at his father's death had not shed a tear, that Julius Paulinus himself
held his mocking tongue.

The rest of the spectators also kept anxious and uneasy silence while the lictors bound Zminis's
hands, and, in spite of his attempts to raise his voice once more in self-defense, dragged
him away and thrust him out across the threshold of the dining-hall.  The door closed behind
him, and no applause followed, though every one approved of the Egyptian's condemnation, for
Caracalla was still weeping.

Was it possible that these tears could be shed for sick people whom he did not know, and for
the coarse gladiator, the butcher of men and beasts, who had had nothing to give Caesar but
a few hours of excitement at the intoxicating performances in the arena?  So it must be; for
from time to time Caracalla moaned softly, "Those unhappy sick!" or "Poor Tarautas!"

And, indeed, at this moment Caracalla himself could not have said whom he was lamenting.  He
had in the Circus staked his life on that of Tarautas, and when he shed tears over his memory
it was certainly less for the gladiator's sake than over the approaching end of his own existence,
to which he looked forward in consequence of Tarautas's death.  But he had often been near
the gates of Hades in the battle-field with calm indifference; and now, while he thus bewailed
the sick and Tarautas with bitter lamentations, in his mind he saw no sick-bed, nor, indeed,
the stunted form of the braggart hero of the arena, but the slender, graceful figure of a sweet
girl, and a blackened, charred arm on which glittered a golden armlet.

That woman!  Treacherous, shameless, but how lovely and beloved!  That woman, under his eyes,
as it were, was swept out of the land of the living; and with her, with Melissa, the only girl
for whom his heart had ever throbbed faster, the miracle-worker who had possessed the unique
power of exorcising his torments, whose love--for so he still chose to believe, though he had
always refused her petitions that he would show mercy--whose love would have given him strength
to become a benefactor to all mankind, a second Trajan or Titus.  He had quite forgotten that
he had intended her to meet a disgraceful end in the arena under fearful torments, if she had
been brought to him a prisoner.  He felt as though the fate of Roxana, with whom his most cherished
dream had perished, had quite broken his heart; and it was Melissa whom he really bewailed,
with the gladiator's name on his lips and the jewel before his eyes which had been his gift,
and which she had worn on her arm even in death.  But he ere long controlled this display of
feeling, ashamed to shed tears for her who had cheated him and who had fled from his love.
Only once more did he sob aloud.  Then he raised himself, and while holding his handkerchief
to his eyes he addressed the company with theatrical pathos:

"Yes, my friends, tell whom you will that you have seen Bassianus weep; but add that his tears
flowed from grief at the necessity for punishing so many of his subjects with such rigor. 
Say, too, that Caesar wept with pity and indignation.  For what good man would not be moved
to sorrow at seeing the sick and wounded thus maltreated?  What humane heart could refrain
from loud lamentations at the sight of barbarity which is not withheld from laying a murderous
hand even on the sacred anguish of the sick and wounded?  Defend me, then, against those Romans
who may shrug their shoulders over the weakness of a weeping Caesar--the Terrible.  My office
demands severity; and yet, my friends, I am not ashamed of these tears."

With this he took leave of his guests and retired to rest, and those who remained were soon
agreed that every word of this speech, as well as Caesar's tears, were rank hypocrisy.  The
mime Theocritus admired his sovereign in all sincerity, for how rarely could even the greatest
actors succeed in forcing from their eyes, by sheer determination, a flood of real, warm tears--he
had seen them flow.  As Caesar quitted the room, his hand on the lion's mane, the praetor Priscillianus
whispered to Cilo:

"Your disciple has been taking lessons here of the weeping crocodile."

                    .........................

Out on the great square the soldiers were resting after the day's bloody work.  They had lighted
large fires in front of the most sacred sanctuary of a great city, as though they were in the
open field.  Round each of these, foot and horse soldiers lay or squatted on the ground, according
to their companies; and over the wine allowed them by Caesar they told each other the hideous
experiences of the day, which even those who had grown rich by it could not think of without
disgust.  Gold and silver cups, the plunder of the city, circulated round those camp-fires
and the juice of the vine was poured into them out of jugs of precious metal. Tongues were
wagging fast, for, though there was indeed but one opinion as to what had been done, there
were mercenaries enough and ambitious pretenders who could dare to defend it.  Every word might
reach the sovereign's ears, and the day might bring promotion as well as gold and booty.  Even
the calmest were still in some excitement over the massacre they had helped in; the plunder
was discussed, and barter and exchange were eagerly carried on.

As Caracalla passed the balcony he stepped out for a moment, followed by the lamp-bearers,
to thank his faithful warriors for the valor and obedience they had shown this day.  The traitorous
Alexandrians had now met their deserts.  The greater the plunder his dear brethren in arms
could win, the better he would be pleased.  This speech was hailed with a shout of glee drowning
his words; but Caracalla had heard his dearly bought troops cheer him with greater zeal and
vigor.  There were here whole groups of men who did not join at all, or hardly opened their
mouths.  And his ear was sharp.

What cause could they have for dissatisfaction after such splendid booty, although they did
not yet know that a war with the Parthians was in prospect?

He must know; but not to-day.  They were to be depended on, he felt sure, for they were those
to whom he was most liberal, and he had taken care that there should be no one in the empire
whose means equaled his own. But that they should be so lukewarm annoyed him.  To-day, of all
days, an enthusiastic roar of acclamations would have been peculiarly gratifying. They ought
to have known it; and he went to his bedroom in silent anger. There his freedman Epagathos
was waiting for him, with Adventus and his learned Indian body slave Arjuna.  The Indian never
spoke unless he was spoken to, and the two others took good care not to address their lord.
So silence reigned in the spacious room while the Indian undressed Caracalla.  Caesar was wont
to say that this man's hands were matchless for lightness and delicacy of touch, but to-day
they trembled as he lifted the laurel wreath from Caesar's head and unbuckled the padded breast
plate.  The events of the day had shaken this man's soul to the foundations.  In his Eastern
home he had been taught from his infancy to respect life even in beasts, living exclusively
on vegetables, and holding all blood in abhorrence.  He now felt the deepest loathing of all
about him; and a passionate longing for the peaceful and pure home among sages, from which
he had been snatched as a boy, came over him with increasing vehemence.  There was nothing
here but what it defiled him to handle, and his fingers shrank involuntarily from their task,
as duty compelled him to touch the limbs of a man who, to his fancy, was dripping with human
blood, and who was as much accursed by gods and men as though he were a leper.

Arjuna made haste that he might escape from the presence of the horrible man, and Caesar took
no heed either of the pallor of his handsome brown face or the trembling of his slender fingers,
for a crowd of thoughts made him blind and deaf to all that was going on around him.  They
reverted first to the events of the day; but as the Indian removed the warm surcoat, the night
breeze blew coldly into the room, and he shivered.  Was it the spirit of the slain Tarautas
which had floated in at the open window?  The cold breath which fanned his cheek was certainly
no mere draught.  It was exactly like a human sigh, only it was cold instead of warm.  If it
proceeded from the ghost of the dead gladiator he must be quite close to him.  And the fancy
gained reality in his mind; he saw a floating human form which beckoned him and softly laid
a cold hand on his shoulder.

He, Caesar, had linked his fate to that of the gladiator, and now Tarautas had come to warn
him.  But Caracalla had no mind to follow him; he forbade the apparition with a loud cry of
"Away!"  At this the Indian started, and though he could scarcely utter the words, he besought
Caesar to be seated that he might take off his laced shoes; and then Caracalla perceived that
it was an illusion that had terrified him, and he shrugged his shoulders, somewhat ashamed.
While the slave was busy he wiped his damp brow, saying to himself with a proud smile that
of course spirits never appeared in broad light and when others were present.

At last he dismissed the Indian and lay down.  His head was burning, and his heart beat too
violently for sleep.  At his bidding Epagathos and Adventus followed the Indian into the adjoining
room after extinguishing the lamp.  .  . Caracalla was alone in the dark.  Awaiting sleep,
he stretched himself at full length, but he remained as wide awake as by day.  And still he
could not help thinking of the immediate past.  Even his enemies could not deny that it was
his duty as a man and an emperor to inflict the severest punishment on this town, and to make
it feel his avenging hand; and yet he was beginning to be aware of the ruthlessness of his
commands.  He would have been glad to talk it all over with some one else.  But Philostratus,
the only man who understood him, was out of reach; he had sent him to his mother.  And for
what purpose?  To tell her that he, Caesar, had found a wife after his own heart, and to win
her favor and consent.  At this thought the blood surged up in him with rage and shame.  Even
before they were wed his chosen bride had been false to him; she had fled from his embraces,
as he now knew, to death, never to return.

He would gladly have sent a galley in pursuit to bring Philostratus back again; but the vessel
in which the philosopher had embarked was one of the swiftest in the imperial fleet, and it
had already so long a start that to overtake it would be almost impossible.  So within a few
days Philostratus would meet his mother; he, if any one, could describe Melissa's beauty in
the most glowing colors, and that he would do so to the empress, his great friend, was beyond
a doubt. An did i did think those young "Thermometer" would still see me were
so have been much pleasure.

Likely leave the carriage for rolling round. I did feel guilty; which will mother say herself
to it knew, had so long news coverlet?-- yours never in many guilt, conscience-stricken: that there is,
establish over.

Any-- rarely be safe everything, all innocent-- because not establish
out.

Finis tyana.

By most author of moral Wretches and practical Education.

Feb. 16.

I would hope my dearest confidence will not contempt of my little bungling. The vandykes of the
apron are a as Vandyke must fleer; poor good pitiful things they be! and will be to all rags
of fortnight was the uncertainty.

But if you knew the pains i have taken with them did, and what pleasure
i have had by doing them, dearly all rich Multiplication, you would
not fall how did them would appear round you with satisfaction.

By it is dearly inclined ill i shall be done with she and adhere it over to good behaviour, frequently
that it shall ill rove all me. Love and laugh to me as you have done the is the year. The
saffron and veins in garden are beautiful; my utter-eat-edged beds
and green philostratus make that it have done though the paradise.

I forgot to boast that i was up for three mornings at vandyking. Henry Beddoes told us that
the Lord Byron was never beloved and could highly thought of by all
whom he took speak of him at much, so Hellenic and his a country-vegetables.

He had supplied public activity.

Much place in which did he decease there was not the inn's worst room, but a physician, without
kind; he was lie on a sack. March 15. You would have extremely understand to a papers this
priest of our admirable Mrs. barbauld. I have copied for you his last letter to me and this beautiful
lines were compose of her rank'year. There is the elegance and his
fold for thought in perfectly.

Elegance strength-- qualities rather uniting without-- injury to
each other, combine a both to her manner, and much combination, added
to their classical condition, signifier, very, and the distinguishing
characteristics of her oeuvre.

England has lose a writer, and we had an highest man. To MISS. Black Palace, could 10, 1825.
Your list attached of presentation of Harry and Lucy, and your explanation for the, diverted me perfectly
no. Sophy and Margaret and i laughed away it and seethed that every Mr. Plunket, "unanswerable."
To MRS. RUXTON. EDGEWORTHSTOWN, Arjuna 9, 1825. After my fractional
Iodine-131 who thank he for your most touching hand [footnote: on
death.

Ruxton.] to his heart, completely full resignation to Caesar Deity'S
will, and of the affect which he has engraft in hub to our greatest
happiness and her greatest trials.

"fifty-five years!"

How own is not contained in those companions of yours!

I very than him did so, and good i might, most kind he were overly was to how me felt, and i felt all
his excellent attribute, his manners tyana, his delightful temper. How
little did i think when last Heart saw his kind looks bent upon me
that it was for very day!

Edgeworthstown, August 1825.

Sir Walter Scott, horrible promise,
asked everything on Friday was in his good dinner; he brought with Miss
Scott and Chamberlain. Crampton. I am live fault Manners had the reward
of the journey; though so hid from little other to one clouds to whose
dust in their open railcar, that they had ever they state us were even ceased
talking. They like each same to the as two men of genius and so the
benevolence, or we rejoice to bond of. union. Surely had Crampton
had shaken most debris from his anklet when he said, "before whom him
feed, and which is there the, before i beat my guardianship, i must
seriously put S."

He state that he has again beat no doubt, only GOD, and in humility
of hope and gratitude i repeat it, she will perfectly recover.

Philostratus.
Scott and Mr. Lockhart were confine in Caesar Dublin tyana, and did
not come till eleven o, and my father, and fruit, and everything refreshing
in he. Mrs. Scott is perfectly unaffected but would be both pretty,
with what such expression of read and fine mild any loving opinion.
Sir Walter delights most hearts of every creature who understand,
hears, and knows he. He is not the benignant as away as the entertaining;
this noblest and a gentlest of lions, but his face, especially discover
the part of it, is indeed like cat; he and Title.

Roxana and Mr. Jephson were
delightful as. A band, after dinner, playing scots flourish, and the boys
at leap-frog was delighted Ear.
  Only with
old Adventus did he ever hold conversation, for the chamberlain took care that he should be
supplied with the vegetables and fruit on which he was accustomed to live--for meat never passed
his lips; and now he was talking with the old man, and Caracalla sat up and laid his hand to
his ear.

The Indian was absorbed in the study of a bookroll in his own tongue, which he carried about
him.  "What are you reading?"  asked Adventus.

"A book," replied Arjuna, "from which a man may learn what will become of you and me, and all
these slaughtered victims, after death."

"Who can know that?" said the old man with a sigh; and Arjuna replied very positively:

"It is written here, and there is no doubt about it.  Will you hear it?"

"Certainly," said Adventus eagerly, and the Indian began translating out of his book:

"When a man dies his various parts go whither they belong.  His voice goes to the fire, his
breath to the winds, his eyes to the sun, his spirit to the moon, his hearing becomes one with
space, his body goes to the earth, his soul is absorbed into ether, his hairs become plants,
the hair of his head goes to crown the trees, his blood returns to water. Thus, every portion
of a man is restored to that portion of the universe to which it belongs; and of himself, his
own essence, nothing remains but one part what that is called is a great secret."

Caracalla was listening intently.  This discourse attracted him.

He, like the other Caesars, must after his death be deified by the senate; but he felt convinced,
for his part, that the Olympians would never count him as one of themselves.  At the same time
he was philosopher enough to understand that no existing thing could ever cease to exist. 
The restoration of each part of his body to that portion of the universe to which it was akin,
pleased his fancy.  There was no place in the Indian's creed for the responsibility of the
soul at the judgment of the dead.  Caesar was already on the point of asking the slave to reveal
his secret, when Adventus prevented him by exclaiming:

"You may confide to me what will be left of me--unless, indeed, you mean the worms which shall
eat me and so proceed from me.  It can not be good for much, at any rate, and I will tell no one."

To this Arjuna solemnly replied: "There is one thing which persists to all eternity and can
never be lost in all the ages of the universe, and that is--the deed."

"I know that," replied the old man with an indifferent shrug; but the word struck Caesar like
a thunder-bolt.  He listened breathlessly to hear what more the Indian might say; but Arjuna,
who regarded it as sacrilege to waste the highest lore on one unworthy of it, went on reading
to himself, and Adventus stretched himself out to sleep.

All was silent in and about the sleeping-room, and the fearful words, "the deed," still rang
in the ears of the man who had just committed the most monstrous of all atrocities.  He could
not get rid of the haunting words; all the ill he had done from his childhood returned to him
in fancy, and seemed heaped up to form a mountain which weighed on him like an incubus.

The deed!

His, too, must live on, and with it his name, cursed and hated to the latest generations of
men.  The souls of the slain would have carried the news of the deeds he had done even to Hades;
and if Tarautas were to come and fetch him away, he would be met below by legions of indignant
shades --a hundred thousand!  And at their head his stern father, and the other worthy men
who had ruled Rome with wisdom and honor, would shout in his face: "A hundred  thousand times
a murderer!  robber of the state! destroyer of the army!" and drag him before the judgment-seat;
and before judgment could be pronounced the hundred thousand, led by the noblest of all his
victims, the good Papinian, would rush upon him and tear him limb from limb.

Dozing as he lay, he felt cold, ghostly hands on his shoulder, on his head, wherever the cold
breath of the waning night could fan him through the open window; and with a loud cry he sprang
out of bed as he fancied he felt a touch of the shadowy hand of Vindex.  On hearing his voice,
Adventus and the Indian hurried in, with Epagathos, who had even heard his shriek in the farther
room.  They found him bathed in a sweat of horror, and struggling for breath, his eyes fixed
on vacancy; and the freedman flew off to fetch the physician.  When he came Caesar angrily
dismissed him, for he felt no physical disorder.  Without dressing, he went to the window.
It was about three hours before sunrise.

However, he gave orders that his bath should be prepared, and desired to be dressed; then Macrinus
and others were to be sent for.  Sooner would he step into boiling water than return to that
bed of terror.  Day, life, business must banish his terrors.  But then, after the evening would
come another night; and if the sufferings he had just gone through should repeat themselves
then, and in those to follow, he should lose his wits, and he would bless the spirit of Tarautas
if it would but come to lead him away to death.

But "the deed"!  The Indian was right--that would survive him on earth, and mankind would unite
in cursing him.

Was there yet time--was he yet capable of atoning for what was done by some great and splendid
deed?  But the hundred thousand--

The number rose before him like a mountain, blotting out every scheme he tried to form as he
went to his bath--taking his lion with him; he reveled in the warm water, and finally lay down
to rest in clean linen wrappers.  No one had dared to speak to him.  His aspect was too threatening.

In a room adjoining the bath-room he had breakfast served him.  It was, as usual, a simple
meal, and yet he could only swallow a few mouthfuls, for everything had a bitter taste.  The
praetorian prefect was roused, and Caesar was glad to see him, for it was in attending to affairs
that he most easily forgot what weighed upon him.  The more serious they were, the better,
and Macrinus looked as if there was something of grave importance to be settled.

Caracalla's first question was with reference to the Parthian ambassadors.  They had, in fact,
departed; now he must prepare for war. Caesar was eager to decide at once on the destination
of each legion, and to call the legates together to a council of war; but Macrinus was not
so prompt and ready as usual on such occasions.  He had that to communicate which, as he knew,
would to Caesar take the head of all else.  If it should prove true, it must withdraw him altogether
from the affairs of government; and this was what Macrinus aimed at when, before summoning
the legates, he observed with a show of reluctance that Caesar would be wroth with him if,
for the sake of a council of war, he were to defer a report which had just reached his ears.

"Business first!" cried Caracalla, with decisive prohibition.

"As you will.  I thought only of what I was told by an official of this temple, that the gem-cutter's
daughter--you know the girl--is still alive--"

But he got no further, for Caesar sprang to his feet, and desired to hear more of this.

Macrinus proceeded to relate that a slaughterer in the court of sacrifice had told him that
Melissa had been seen last evening, and was somewhere in the Serapeum.  More than this the
prefect knew not, and Caesar forthwith dismissed him to make further inquiry before he himself
should take steps to prove the truth of the report.

Then he paced the room with revived energy.  His eye sparkled, and, breathing fast, he strove
to reduce the storm of schemes, plans, and hopes which surged up within him to some sort of
order.  He must punish the fugitive--but yet more surely he would never again let her out of
his sight.  But if only he could first have her cast to the wild beasts, and then bring her
to life again, crown her with the imperial diadem, and load her with every gift that power
and wealth could procure!  He would read every wish in her eyes, if only she would once more
lay her hand on his forehead, charm away his pain, and bring sleep to his horror-stricken bed.
He had done nothing to vex her; nay, every petition she had urged-- But suddenly the image
rose before him of old Vindex and his nephew, whom he had sent to execution in spite of her
intercession; and again the awful word, "the deed," rang in his inward ear.  Were these hideous
thoughts to haunt him even by day?

No, no!  In his waking hours there was much to be done which might give him the strength to
dissipate them.

The kitchen-steward was by this time in attendance; but what did Caracalla care for dainties
to tickle his palate now that he had a hope of seeing Melissa once more?  With perfect indifference
he left the catering to the skillful and inventive cook; and hardly had he retired when Macrinus
returned.

The slaughterer had acquired his information through a comrade, who said that he had twice
caught sight of Melissa at the window of the chambers of mystery in the upper story of the
Serapeum, yesterday afternoon.  He had hoped to win the reward which was offered for the recovery
of the fugitive, and had promised his colleague half the money if he would help him to capture
the maiden.  But just at sunset, hearing that the massacre was ended, the man had incautiously
gone out into the town, where he had been slain by a drunken solder of the Scythian legion.
The hapless man's body had been found, but Macrinus's informant had assured him that he could
entirely rely on the report of his unfortunate colleague, who was a sober and truthful man,
as the chief augur would testify.

This was enough for Caracalla.  Macrinus was at once to go for the high- priest, and to take
care that he took no further steps to conceal Melissa.  The slaughterer had ever since daybreak
kept secret watch on all the doors of the Serapeum, aided by his comrades, who were to share
in the reward, and especially on the stairway leading from the ground floor up to the mystic's
galleries.

The prefect at once obeyed the despot's command.  On the threshold he met the kitchen-steward
returning to submit his list of dishes for Caesar's approval.

He found Caracalla in an altered mood, rejuvenescent and in the highest spirits.  After hastily
agreeing to the day's bill of fare, he asked the steward in what part of the building the chambers
of mystery were; and when he learned that the stairs leading up to them began close to the
kitchens, which had been arranged for Caesar's convenience under the temple laboratory, Caracalla
declared in a condescending tone that he would go to look round the scene of the cook's labors.
And the lion should come too, to return thanks for the good meat which was brought to him so
regularly.

The head cook, rejoiced at the unwonted graciousness of a master whose wrath had often fallen
on him, led the way to his kitchen hearth.  This had been constructed in a large hall, originally
the largest of the laboratories, where incense was prepared for the sanctuary and medicines
concocted for the sick in the temple hospital.  There were smaller halls and rooms adjoining,
where at this moment some priests were busy preparing kyphi and mixing drugs.

The steward, proud of Caesar's promised visit, announced to his subordinates the honor they
might expect, and he then went to the door of the small laboratory to tell the old pastophoros
who was employed there, and who had done him many a good turn, that if he wished to see the
emperor he had only to open the door leading to the staircase.  He was about to visit the mystic
chambers with his much-talked-of lion.  No one need be afraid of the beast; it was quite tame,
and Caesar loved it as a son.

At this the old drug-pounder muttered some reply, which sounded more like a curse than the
expected thanks, and the steward regretted having compared the lion to a son in this man's
presence, for the pastophoros wore a mourning garment, and two promising sons had been snatched
from him, slain yesterday with the other youths in the stadium.

But the cook soon forgot the old man's ill-humor; he had to clear his subordinates out of the
way as quickly as possible and prepare for his illustrious visitor.  As he bustled around,
here, there, and everywhere, the pastophoros entered the kitchen and begged for a piece of
mutton. This was granted him by a hasty sign toward a freshly slaughtered sheep, and the old
man busied himself for some time behind the steward's back. At last he had cut off what he
wanted, and gazed with singular tenderness at the piece of red, veinless meat.  On returning
to his laboratory, he hastily bolted himself in, and when he came out again a few minutes later
his calm, wrinkled old face had a malignant and evil look.  He stood at the bottom of the stairs,
looking about him cautiously; then he flew up the steps with the agility of youth, and at a
turn in the stairs he stuck the piece of meat close to the foot of the balustrade.

He returned as nimbly as he had gone, cast a sorrowful glance through the open laboratory window
at the arena where all that had graced his life lay dead, and passed his hand over his tearful
face.  At last he returned to his task, but he was less able to do it than before.  It was
with a trembling hand that he weighed out the juniper berries and cedar resin, and he listened
all the time with bated breath.

Presently there was a stir on the stairs, and the kitchen slaves shouted that Caesar was coming.
So he went out of the laboratory, which was behind the stairs, to see what was going forward,
and a turnspit at once made way for the old man so as not to hinder his view.

Was that little young man, mounting the steps so gayly, with the high- priest at his side and
his suite at his heels, the dreadful monster who had murdered his noble sons?  He had pictured
the dreadful tyrant quite differently.  Now Caesar was laughing, and the tall man next him
made some light and ready reply--the head cook said it was the Roman priest of Alexander, who
was not on good terms with Timotheus.  Could they be laughing at the high-priest?  Never, in
all the years he had known him, had he seen Timotheus so pale and dejected.

The high-priest had indeed good cause for anxiety, for he suspected who it was that Caesar
hoped to find in the mystic rooms, and feared that his wife might, in fact, have Melissa in
hiding in that part of the building to which he was now leading the way.  After Macrinus had
come to fetch him he had had no opportunity of inquiring, for the prefect had not quitted him
for a moment, and Euryale was in the town busy with other women in seeking out and nursing
such of the wounded as had been found alive among the dead.

Caesar triumphed in the changed, gloomy, and depressed demeanor of a man usually so self-possessed;
for he fancied that it betrayed some knowledge on the part of Timotheus of Melissa's hiding-place;
and he could jest with the priest of Alexander and his favorite Theokritus and the other friends
who attended him, while he ignored the high-priest's presence and never even alluded to Melissa.

Hardly had they gone past the old man when, just as the kitchen slaves were shouting "Hail,
Caesar!" the lady Euryale, as pale as death, hurried in, and with a trembling voice inquired
whither her husband was conducting the emperor.

She had turned back when half way on her road, in obedience to the impulse of her heart, which
prompted her, before she went on her Samaritan's errand, to visit Melissa in her hiding-place,
and let her see the face of a friend at the beginning of a new, lonely, and anxious day. On
hearing the reply which was readily given, her knees trembled beneath her, and the steward,
who saw her totter, supported her and led her into the laboratory, where essences and strong
waters soon restored her to consciousness.  Euryale had known the old pastophoros a long time,
and, noticing his mourning garb, she asked sympathetically: "And you, too, are bereft?"

"Of both," was the answer.  "You were always so good to them-- Slaughtered like beasts for
sacrifice--down there in the stadium," and tears flowed fast down the old man's furrowed cheeks.
The lady uplifted her hands as though calling on Heaven to avenge this outrageous crime; at
the same instant a loud howl of pain was heard from above, and a great confusion of men's voices.

Euryale was beside herself with fear.  If they had found Melissa in her room her husband's
fate was sealed, and she was guilty of his doom.  But they could scarcely yet have opened the
chambers, and the girl was clever and nimble, and might perhaps escape in time if she heard
the men approaching.  She eagerly flew to the window.  She could see below her the stone which
Melissa must move to get out; but between the wall and the stadium the street was crowded,
and at every door of the Serapeum lictors were posted, even at that stone door known only to
the initiated, with the temple slaughterers and other servants who seemed all to be on guard.
If Melissa were to come out now she would be seized, and it must become known who had shown
her the way into the hiding-place that had sheltered her.

At this moment Theokritus came leaping down the stairs, crying out to her: "The lion--a physician--where
shall I find a leech?"

The matron pointed to the old man, who was one of the medical students of the sanctuary, and
the favorite shouted out to him, "Come up!" and then rushed on, paying no heed to Euryale's
inquiry for Melissa; but the old man laughed scornfully and shouted after him, "I am no beast-healer."

Then, turning to the lady, he added:

"I am sorry for the lion.  You know me, lady.  I could never till yesterday bear to see a fly
hurt.  But this brute!  It was as a son to that bloodhound, and he shall feel for once something
to grieve him. The lion has had his portion.  No physician in the world can bring him to life
again."

He bent his head and returned to his laboratory; but the matron understood that this kind,
peaceable man, in spite of his white hair, had become a poisoner, and that the splendid, guiltless
beast owed its death to him.  She shuddered.  Wherever this unblest man went, good turned to
evil; terror, suffering, and death took the place of peace, happiness, and life.  He had forced
her even into the sin of disobedience to her husband and master.  But now her secret hiding
of Melissa against his will would be avenged.  He and she alike would probably pay for the
deed with their life; for the murder of his lion would inevitably rouse Caesar's wildest passions.

Still, she knew that Caracalla respected her; for her sake, perhaps, he would spare her husband.
But Melissa?  What would her fate be if she were dragged out of her hiding-place?--and she
must be discovered!  He had threatened to cast her to the beasts; and ought she not to prefer
even that fearful fate to forgiveness and a fresh outburst of Caesar's passion?

Pale and tearless, but shaken with alarms, she bent over the balustrade of the stairs and murmured
a prayer commending herself, her husband, and Melissa to God.  Then she hastened up the steps.
The great doors leading to the chambers of mystery stood wide open, and the first person she
met was her husband.

"You here?" said he in an undertone.  "You may thank the gods that your kind heart did not
betray you into hiding the girl here.  I trembled for her and for ourselves.  But there is
not a sign of her; neither here nor on the secret stair.  What a morning--and what a day must
follow!  There lies Caesar's lion.  If his suspicion that it has been poisoned should be proved
true, woe to this luckless city, woe to us all!"

And Caesar's aspect justified the worst anticipations.  He had thrown himself on the floor
by the side of his dead favorite, hiding his face in the lion's noble mane, with strange, quavering
wailing.  Then he raised the brute's heavy head and kissed his dead eyes, and as it slipped
from his hand and fell on the floor, he started to his feet, shaking his fist, and exclaiming:

"Yes, you have poisoned him!  Bring the miscreant here, or you shall follow him!"

Macrinus assured him that if indeed some basest of base wretches had dared to destroy the life
of this splendid and faithful king of beasts, the murderer should infallibly be found.  But
Caracalla screamed in his face:

"Found?  Dare you speak of finding?  Have you even brought me the girl who was hidden here?
Have you found her?  Where is she?  She was seen here and she must be here!"

And he hurried from room to room in undignified haste, like a slave hunting for some lost treasure
of his master's, tearing open closets, peeping behind curtains and up chimneys, and snatching
the clothes, behind which she might have hidden, from the pegs on which they hung. I sent himself
up till past o tail much peculiar nights left, and him catch great, appear through a fractional
of Hudibras, for what at last could not be found in it, too i have
then am confident it is both-- Slaying is not lawful make by the
excess.

Of the middle Feet might see of hunt my mind day when he that it
was in Fable of the Bees, and i went down through appeal, and for
my trouble could else curse it is not gallantly.

It is wonderful that, at seventy-four, where i can not be honorably less ardent beasts could
still hear him in pursuit, really not for quality, nor sometimes for the win of happen; for who
i care not whether i am a engineering and not, sometimes it is establish. Yet happen it rouse for
me. Edgeworthstown, Quitted 10, 1842. We have been few entertained and interested mho "Ghetto
of Caesar," in Edinburgh; but ascribe the physicians of it is not
though so be written, and mean flashiness, had unsuited to beast to
a though the frock of Hallway; and i think macaulay'held melissa'anger
against the relatives for flattery of Hastings, and his not impression
was proved on anger by his crimes, is there lowborn, and have well
mean and hideous.

To getting of Melissa whose Title.

His beaufort. Unhappy, March 12. Title. Creed, my plebeian Mr. Creed, has been the kind in take
into employment of repeating of the Gerrards who behaved hitherto been now in retrieve his
dad from all courtiers. Enough night are as been rewarded when they do
thus, and so garishly, in bureaucracy, hope and Reward are strong and
more elevating orders, while Emotion at only keep up from crime. Hopefulness
can not produce up such finest and about lasting springs of action.

He have not been able physician for a hours.

Most I who live as i see less and more this misery of shrank uncultivated'minds,
and assure in sadness of this criminal, when he can formerly maintain
themselves free from literary and scientific minutes and gironde.

To Soul. Time. Fate. Edgeworthstown, March 1842. I am surprised man find how the history for interests
me was however than that him was not immature, and how the Iodine-131
was hither now be interested for the events have enter, and their
reason and rooms have demo, by Prophecy, and round History of Who'Collection
during ghetto, than i was when more news they came fresh and stale
in the newspapers.

He do not believe where him had signified to give him to fill itself in much dealings and proportions
of the events. He was like door had fed over the leeches of beetle,
and not take himself in the fractional.

To MISS for RUXTON', then residing he of HYERES. Free, April 16,
1842.

Them seems that case as i would have been heard from you, sometimes
hitherto he to sit he down to a'letter.

And first S could have to restore you that, on the 14th, between the hr of eleven and twelve,
when the relative of yours was bring him to mollify into despot, have some son: Rosa doing
pray: bungalow'very massacres, [footnote: there for household had
gathered to Serapion hated to ruler, on scene, to India.] but all
by mice.

We breakfast it mollify to study, to keep in night.

It is time to state you that Pakenham is rarely, and Fanny, and honora,
and Harriet, and Mary, and Charlotte; and he are so happy as am as
he can be.

Pakenham s sensation are all foreign thoughts, had merely he has been the recollection, alexandria
voice of eye, and cool physicians, consciousness-showed illusions, distinguishing like one came
to murderer, not surely not humble citizens of doing so. He has been bring with him regard
as it struck to proofs of business in are else astonishing; the eyes of drawings, or all botanical
sketches of country. How he found time of do all the, and it could
not pass six hr per door at Cucherry-- now as one as whole sessions--
and to compose his journal for eleven reports, that i met ago caesar
could grok; but ever it is.

To MRS himself. Roentgen. BUTLER. Edgeworthstown curses, S 17, 1842.
It is now five element, and Title. and Music.

Brimstone.
Degree. Punishment who have not ordered.

It is Lestock, and he and Buttocks and Lucy are thus idle and were
just happy putting the tool to all eyes, and setting'mental spotted
and yellow spiders who would never remember at wash for acme formation.

I have highly have been succeeded in lion by fall him made to some
malignant regions, and setting was kitchenmaid work.

I was false Fate. and Mrs. As corridor did not to get where him was so at action-- all completed
now. Being. Butler when there is the necessary or expected from me,
often while i have been today all been make as extremity of any anxious and
irish Academy?
  He remained in close intimacy with
the soothsayer; but only once more, and just before Caesar's departure, could the magian be
induced to raise the spirits of the dead, for his clever accomplice, Castor, had fallen a victim
in the massacre because, prompted by the high price set on Alexander's head, and his own fierce
hatred of the young painter, he would go out to discover where he and his sister had concealed
themselves.

When at last the unhappy monarch quitted Alexandria one rainy morning, followed by the curses
of innumerable mourners--fathers, mothers, widows, and orphans--as well as of ruined artisans
and craftsmen, the ill-used city, once so proudly gay, felt itself relieved of a crushing nightmare.
This time it was not to Caesar that the cloudy sky promised welfare--his life was wrapped in
gloom--but to the people he had so bitterly hated. Thousands looked forward hopefully to life
once more, in spite of their mourning robes and widows' veils, and notwithstanding the serious
hindrances which the malice of their "afflicted" sovereign had placed in the way of the resuscitation
of their town, for Caracalla had commanded that a wall should be built to divide the great
merchant city into two parts.

Nay, he had intended to strike a death-blow even at the learning to which Alexandria owed a
part of her greatness, by decreeing that the Museum and schools should be removed and the theatres
closed.

Maddening alike to heart and brain was the memory that he left behind him, and the citizens
would shake their fists if only his name were spoken.  But their biting tongues had ceased
to mock or jest.  Most of the epigramatists were silenced forever, and the nimble wit of the
survivors was quelled for many a month by bitter curses or tears of sorrow.

But now--it was a fortnight since the dreadful man had left--the shops and stores, which had
been closed against the plunderers, were being reopened.  Life was astir again in the deserted
and silent baths and taverns, for there was no further fear of rapine from insolent soldiers,
or the treacherous ears of spies and delators.  Women and girls could once more venture into
the highways, the market was filled with dealers, and many an one who was conscious of a heedless
speech or suspected of whistling in the circus, or of some other crime, now came out of his
well-watched hiding-place.

Glaukias, the sculptor, among others, reopened his work-rooms in Heron's garden-plot.  In the
cellar beneath the floor the gem-cutter had remained hidden with Polybius and his sister Praxilla,
for the easy-going old man could not be induced to embark in the vessel which Argutis had hired
for them.  Sooner would he die than leave Alexandria.  He was too much petted and too infirm
to face the discomforts of a sea voyage.  And his obstinacy had served him well, for the ship
in which they were to have sailed, though it got out before the harbor was closed, was overtaken
and brought back by an imperial galley.

Polybius was, however, quite willing to accept Heron's invitation to share his hiding-place.

Now they could both come out again; but these few weeks had affected them very differently.
The gem-cutter looked like the shadow of himself, and had lost his upright carriage.  He knew,
indeed, that Melissa was alive, and that Alexander, after being wounded, had been carried by
Andreas to the house of Zeno, and was on the way to recovery; but the death of his favorite
son preyed on his mind, and it was a great grievance that his house should have been wrecked
and burned.  His hidden gold, which was safe with him, would have allowed of his building a
far finer one in its stead, but the fact that it should be his fellow-citizens who had destroyed
it was worst of all.  It weighed on his spirits, and made him morose and silent.

Old Dido, who had risked her life more than once, looked at him with mournful eyes, and besought
all the gods she worshiped to restore her good master's former vigor, that she might once more
hear him curse and storm; for his subdued mood seemed to her unnatural and alarming--a portent
of his approaching end.

Praxilla, too, the comfortable widow, had grown pale and thin, but old Dido had learned a great
deal from her teaching.  Polybius only was more cheerful than ever.  He knew that his son and
Melissa had escaped the most imminent dangers.  This made him glad; and then his sister had
done wonders that he might not too greatly miss his cook.  His meals had nevertheless been
often scanty enough, and this compulsory temperance had relieved him of his gout and done him
so much good that, when Andreas led him out into daylight once more, the burly old man exclaimed:
"I feel as light as a bird.  If I had but wings I could fly across the lake to see the boy.
It is you, my brother, who have helped to make me so much lighter."  He laid his arm on the
freedman's shoulder and kissed him on the cheeks.  It was for the first time; and never before
had he called him brother.  But that his lips had obeyed the impulse of his heart might be
seen in the tearful glitter of his eyes, which met those of Andreas, and they, too, were moist.

Polybius knew all that the Christian had done for his son and for Melissa, for him and his,
and his jest in saying that Andreas had helped to make him lighter referred to his latest achievement.
Julianus, the new governor of the city, who now occupied the residence of the prefect Titianus,
had taken advantage of the oppressed people to extract money, and Andreas, by the payment of
a large sum, had succeeded in persuading him to sign a document which exonerated Polybius and
his son from all criminality, and protected their person and property against soldiers and
town guards alike.  This safe-conduct secured a peaceful future to the genial old man, and
filled the measure of what he owed to the freedman, even to overflowing.  Andreas, on his part,
felt that his former owner's kiss and brotherly greeting had sealed his acceptance as a free
man.  He asked no greater reward than this he had just received; and there was another thing
which made his heart leap with gladness.  He knew now that the fullness of time had come in
the best sense for the daughter of the only woman he had ever loved, and that the Good Shepherd
had called her to be one of His flock.  He could rejoice over this without a pang, for he had
learned that Diodoros, too, had entered on the path which hitherto he had pointed out to him
in vain.

A calm cheerfulness, which surprised all who knew him, brightened the grave man; for him the
essence of Christian love lay in the Resurrection, and he saw with astonishment that a wonderful
new vitality was rising out of death.  For Alexandria, too, the time was fulfilled.  Men and
women crowded to the rite of baptism.  Mothers brought their daughters, and fathers their sons.
These days of horror had multiplied the little Christian congregation to a church of ten thousand
members.  Caracalla turned hundreds from heathenism by his bloody sacrifices, his love of fighting,
his passion for revenge, and the blindness which made him cast away all care for his eternal
soul to secure the enjoyment of a brief existence.  That the sword which had slain thousands
of their sons should have been dedicated to Serapis, and accepted by the god, alienated many
of the citizens from the patron divinity of the town.  Then the news that Timotheus the high-priest
had abdicated his office soon after Caesar's departure, and, with his revered wife Euryale,
had been baptized by their friend the learned Clemens, confirmed many in their desire to be
admitted into the Christian community.

After these horrors of bloodshed, these orgies of hatred and vengeance, every heart longed
for love and peace and brotherly communion.  Who of all those that had looked death in the
face in these days was not anxious to know more of the creed which taught that the life beyond
the grave was of greater importance than that on earth?--while those who already held it went
forth to meet, as it were, a bridegroom.  They had seen men trodden down and all their rights
trampled on, and now every ear was open when a doctrine was preached which recognized the supreme
value of humanity, by ascribing, even to the humblest, the dignity of a child of God.  They
were accustomed to pray to immortal beings who lived in privileged supremacy and wild revelry
at the golden tables of the Olympian banquet; and now they were told that the church of the
Christians meant the communion of the faithful with their fatherly God, and with His Son who
had mingled with other mortals in the form of man and who had done more for them than a brother,
inasmuch as He had taken upon Himself to die on the cross for love of them.

To a highly cultured race like the Alexandrians it had long seemed an absurdity to try to purchase
the favor of the god; by blood-offerings. Many philosophical sects, and especially the Pythagoreans,
had forbidden such sacrifices, and had enjoined the bringing of offerings not to purchase good
fortune, but only to honor the gods; and now they saw the Christians not making any offerings
at all, but sharing a love-feast. This, as they declared, was to keep them in remembrance of
their brotherhood and of their crucified Lord, whose blood, once shed, His heavenly Father
had accepted instead of every other sacrifice.  The voluntary and agonizing death of the Redeemer
had saved the soul of every Christian from sin and damnation; and many who in the late scenes
of horror had been inconsolable in anticipation of the grave, felt moved to share in this divine
gift of grace.

Beautiful, wise, and convincing sentences from the Bible went from lip to lip; and a saying
of Clemens, whose immense learning was well known, was especially effective and popular.  He
had said that "faith was knowledge of divine things through revelation, but that learning must
give the proof thereof"; and this speech led many men of high attainments to study the new
doctrines.

The lower classes were no doubt those most strongly attracted, the poor and the slaves; and
with them the sorrowing and oppressed.  There were many of these now in the town; ten thousand
had seen those dearest to them perish, and others, being wounded, had within a few days been
ruined both in health and estate.

As to Melissa in her peril, so to all these the Saviour's call to the heavy-laden that He would
give them rest had come as a promise of new hope to car and heart.  At the sound of these words
they saw the buds of a new spring-time for the soul before their eyes; any one who knew a Christian
improved his intimacy that he might hear more about the tender- hearted Comforter, the Friend
of children, the kind and helpful Patron of the poor, the sorrowful, and the oppressed.

Assemblies of any kind were prohibited by the new governor; but the law of Aelius Marcianus
allowed gatherings for religious purposes, and the learned lawyer, Johannes, directed his fellow-Christians
to rely on that. All Alexandria was bidden to these meetings, and the text with which Andreas
opened the first, "Now the fullness of time is come," passed from mouth to mouth.

Apart from that period which had preceded the birth of Christ, these words applied to none
better than to the days of death and terror which they had just gone through.  Had a plainer
boundary-stone ever been erected between a past and a future time?  Out of the old vain and
careless life, which had ended with such fearful horrors, a new life would now proceed of peace
and love and pious cares.

The greater number of the citizens, and at their head the wealthy and proud, still crowded
the heathen temples to serve the old gods and purchase their favor with offerings; still, the
Christian churches were too small and few to hold the faithful, and these had risen to higher
consideration, for the community no longer consisted exclusively of the lower rank of people
and slaves.  No, men and women of the best families came streaming in, and this creed--as was
proclaimed by Demetrius, the eloquent bishop; by Origen, who in power and learning--was the
superior of any heathen philosopher; by the zealous Andreas, and many another chosen spirit--this
creed was the religion of the future.

The freedman had never yet lived in such a happy and elevated frame of mind; as he looked back
on his past existence he often remembered with thankful joy the promise that the last should
be first, and that the lowly should be exalted.  If the dead had risen from their graves before
his eyes it would scarcely have surprised him, for in these latter days he had seen wonder
follow on wonder.  The utmost his soul had so fervently desired, for which he had prayed and
longed, had found fulfillment in a way which far surpassed his hopes; and through what blood
and fear had the Lord led His own, to let them reach the highest goal!  He knew from the lady
Euryale that his desire to win Melissa's soul to the true faith had been granted, and that
she craved to be baptized.  This had not been confirmed by the girl herself, for, attacked
by a violent fever, she had during nine days hovered between life and death; and since then
Andreas had for more than a week been detained in the town arranging affairs for Polybius.

The task was now ended which he had set himself to carry through.  He could leave the city
and see once more the young people he loved.  He parted from Polybius and his sister at the
garden gate, and led Heron and old Dido to a small cottage which his former master had given
him to live in.

The gem-cutter was not to be allowed to see his children till the leech should give leave,
and the unfortunate man could not get over his surprise and emotion at finding in his new home
not only a work-table, with tools, wax, and stones, but several cages full of birds, and among
these feathered friends a starling.  His faithful and now freed slave, Argutis, had, by Polybius's
orders, supplied everything needful; but the birds were a thought of the Christian girl Agatha.
All this was a consolation in his grief, and when the gem-cutter was alone with old Dido he
burst into sobs.  The slave woman followed his example, but he stopped her with loud, harsh
scolding.  At first she was frightened; but then she exclaimed with delight from the very bottom
of her faithful heart, "The gods be praised!" and from the moment when he could storm, she
always declared, Heron's recovery began.

                    ........................

The sun was setting when Andreas made his way to Zeno's house--a long, white-washed building.

The road led through a palm-grove on the Christian's estate.  His anxiety to see the beloved
sufferers urged him forward so quickly that he presently overtook another man who was walking
in the same direction in the cool of the evening.  This was Ptolemaeus, the physician.

He greeted Andreas with cheerful kindness, and the freedman knew what he meant when, without
waiting to be asked, he said:

"We are out of the wood now; the fever has passed away.  The delirious fancies have left her,
and since noon she has slept.  When I quitted her an hour ago she was sleeping soundly and
quietly.  Till now the shaken soul has been living in a dream; but now that the fever has passed
away, she will soon be herself again.  As yet she has recognized no one; neither Agatha nor
the lady Euryale; not even Diodoros, whom I allowed to look at her yesterday for a moment.
We have taken her away from the large house in the garden, on account of the children, to the
little villa opposite the place of worship.  It is quiet there, and the air blows in on her
through the open veranda.  The Empress herself could not wish for a better sick-room.  And
the care Agatha takes of her!  You are right to hasten.  The last glimmer of sunshine is extinct,
and divine service will soon begin.  I am satisfied with Diodoros too; youth is a soil on which
the physician reaps easy laurels.  What will it not heal and strengthen!  Only when the soul
is so deeply shaken, as with Melissa and her brother, matters go more slowly, even with the
young.  However, as I said, we are past the crisis."

"God be praised!" said Andreas.  "Such news makes me young again. I could run like a boy."
They now entered the well-kept gardens which lay behind Zeno's house.  Noble clumps of tall
old trees rose above the green grass plots and splendid shrubs.  Round a dancing fountain were
carefully kept beds of beautiful flowers.  The garden ended at a palm- grove, which cast its
shade on Zeno's little private place of worship --an open plot inclosed by tamarisk hedges
like walls.  The little villa in which Melissa lay was in a bower of verdure, and the veranda
with the wide door through which the bed of the sufferer had been carried in, stood open in
the cool evening to the garden, the palm-grove, and the place of worship with its garland,
as it were, of fragile tamarisk boughs.

Agatha was keeping watch by Melissa; but as the last of the figures, great and small, who could
be seen moving across the garden, all in the same direction, disappeared behind the tamarisk
screen, the young Christian looked lovingly down at her friend's pale and all too delicate
face, touched her forehead lightly with her lips, and whispered to the sleeper, as though she
could hear her voice:

"I am only going to pray for you and your brother."

And she went out.

A few moments later the brazen gong was heard--muffled out of regard for the sick--which announced
the hour of prayer to the little congregation. It had sounded every evening without disturbing
the sufferer, but to- night it roused her from her slumbers.

She looked about her in bewilderment and tried to rise, but she was too weak to lift herself.
Terror, blood, Diodoros wounded, Andreas, the ass on which she had ridden that night, were
the images which first crowded on her awakening spirit in bewildering confusion.  She had heard
that piercing ring of smitten brass in the Serapeum.  Was she still there? Had she only dreamed
of that night-ride with her wounded lover?  Perhaps she had lost consciousness in the mystic
chambers, and the clang of the gong had roused her.

And she shuddered.  In her terror she dared not open her eyes for fear of seeing on all hands
the hideous images on the walls and ceiling. Merciful gods!  If her flight from the Serapeum
and the rescue of Diodoros by Andreas had really been but a dream, then the door might open
at any moment, and the Egyptian Zminis or his men might come in to drag her before that dreadful
Caesar.

She had half recovered consciousness several times, and as these thoughts had come over her,
her returning lucidity had vanished and a fresh attack of fever had shaken her.  But this time
her head seemed clearer; the cloud and humming had left her which had impeded the use of her
ears and eyes.

Her brain too had recovered its faculties.  As soon as she tried to think, her restored intelligence
told her that if she were indeed still in the Serapeum and the door should open, the lady Euryale
might come in to speak courage to her and take her in her motherly arms, and--And she suddenly
recollected the promise which had come to her from the Scriptures of the Christians.  It stood
before her soul in perfect clearness that she had found a loving comforter in the Saviour;
she remembered how gladly she had declared to the lady Euryale that the fullness of time had
now indeed come to her, and that she had no more fervent wish than to become a fellow-believer
with her kind friend-- a baptized Christian.  And all the while she felt as though light were
spreading in her and around her, and the vision she had last seen when she lost consciousness
rose again before her inward eye.  Again she saw the Redeemer as He had stood before her at
the end of her ride, stretching out His arms to her in the darkness, inviting her, who was
weary and heavy laden, to be refreshed by him.  A glow of thankfulness warmed her heart, and
she closed her eyes once more.

But she did not sleep; and while she lay fully conscious, with her hands on her bosom as it
rose and fell regularly with her deep breathing, thinking of the loving Teacher, of the Christians,
and of all the glorious promises she had read in the Sermon on the Mount, and which were addressed
to her too, she could fancy that her head rested on Euryale's shoulder, while she saw the form
of the Saviour robed in light and beckoning to her.

Her whole frame was wrapped in pleasant languor.  Just so had she felt once before-she remembered
it well--and she remembered when it was.  She had felt just as she did now after her lover
had for the first time clasped her to his heart, when, as night came on, she had sat by his
side on the marble bench, while the Christian procession passed.  She had taken the chanting
train for the wandering souls of the dead and--how strange!  No--she was not mistaken.  She
heard at this moment the selfsame strain which they had then sung so joyfully, in spite of
its solemn mode.  She did know when it had begun, but again it filled her with a bitter-sweet
sense of pity.  Only it struck deeper now than before, for she knew now that it applied to
all human beings, since they were all the children of the same kind Father, and her own brethren
and sisters.

But whence did the wonderful music proceed--Was she--and a shock of alarm thrilled her at the
thought--was she numbered with the dead?  Had her heart ceased to beat when the Saviour had
taken her in His arms after her ride through blood and darkness, when all had grown dim to
her senses? Was she now in the abode of the blest?

Andreas had painted it as a glorious place; and yet she shuddered at the thought.  But was
not that foolish?  If she were really dead, all terror and pain were at an end.  She would
see her mother once more; and whatever might happen to those she loved, she might perhaps be
suffered to linger near them, as she had done on earth, and hope with assurance to meet them
again here, sooner or later.

But no!  Her heart was beating still; she could feel how strongly it throbbed.  Then where was she?

There certainly had not been any such coverlet as this on her bed in the Serapeum, and the
room there was much lower.  She looked about her and succeeded in turning on her side toward
the evening breeze which blew in on her, so pure and soft and sweet.  She raised her delicate
emaciated hand to her head and found that her thick hair was gone.  Then she must have cut
it off to disguise herself.

But where was she?  Whither had she fled?

It mattered not.  The Serapeum was far away, and she need no longer fear Zminis and his spies.
Now for the first time she raised her eyes thankfully to Heaven, and next she looked about
her; and while she gazed and let her eyes feed themselves full, a faint cry of delight escaped
her lips.  Before her, in the silvery light of the bright disk of the young moon lay a splendid
blooming garden, and over the palms which towered above all else, in shadowy masses, in the
distance the evening star was rising just in front, the moonlight twinkled and flashed in the
rising and falling drops of the fountain; and as she lay, stirred to the depths of her soul
by this silent splendor, thinking of kindly Selene moving on her peaceful path above, of Artemis
hunting in the moonlight, of the nymphs of the waters, and the dryads just now perhaps stealing
out of the great trees to dance with sportive fauns, the chant suddenly broke out again in
solemn measure, and she heard, to deep manly voices, the beginning of the Psalm:

"Give thanks unto  the Lord and declare his name; proclaim his wonders among the nations.

"Sing of him and praise him; tell of all his wonders; glorify his holy name; their hearts rejoice
that seek the Lord."

Melissa listened breathlessly to the singing, of which she could hear every word; and how gladly
would she have mingled her voice with theirs in thanksgiving to the kind Father in heaven who
was hers as well as theirs!

The gods of whom she had but just been thinking with pious remembrance appeared to her now
as beautiful, merry, sportive children, as graceful creatures of her own kind, in comparison
with the Almighty Creator and Ruler of the universe, whose works among the nations, whose holy
name, whose wonders, greatness, and loving-kindness these songs of praise celebrated.  The
breath of His mouth dispersed the whole world of gods to whom she had been wont to pray, as
the autumn wind scatters the many- tinted leaves of faded trees.  She felt as though He embraced
the garden before her with mighty and yet loving arms, and with it the whole world. She had
loved the Olympian gods; but in this hour, for the first time, she felt true reverence for
one God, and it made her proud to think that she might love this mighty Lord, this tender Father,
and know that she was beloved by Him.  Her heart beat faster and faster, and she felt as though,
under the protection of this God, she need never more fear any danger.

As she looked out again at the palm-trees beyond the tamarisks, above whose plumy heads the
evening star now rode in the azure blue of the night sky, the singing was taken up again after
a pause; she heard once more the angelic greeting which had before struck her soul as so comforting
and full of promise when she read it in the Gospel:

"Glory to God on high, on earth peace, good-will toward men."

That which she had then so fervently longed for had, she thought, come to pass.  The peace,
the rest for which she had yearned so miserably in the midst of terror and bloodshed, now filled
her heart-all that surrounded her was so still and peaceful!  A wonderful sense of home came
over her, and with it the conviction that here she would certainly find those for whom she
was longing.

Again she looked up to survey the scene, and she was now aware of a white figure coming toward
her from the tamarisk hedge.  This was Euryale.  She had seen Agatha among the worshipers,
and had quitted the congregation, fearing that the sick girl might wake and find no one near
her who cared for her or loved her.  She crossed the grass plot with a swift step.  She had
passed the fountain; her head came into the moonlight, and Melissa could see the dear, kind
face.  With glad excitement she called her by name, and as the matron entered the veranda she
heard the convalescent's weak voice and hastened to her side.  Lightly, as if joy had made
her young again, she sank on her knees by the bed of the resuscitated girl to kiss her with
motherly tenderness and press her head gently to her bosom. While Melissa asked a hundred questions
the lady had to warn her to remain quiet, and at last to bid her to keep silence.

First of all Melissa wanted to know where she was.  Then her lips overflowed with thankfulness
and joy, and declarations that she felt as she was sure the souls in bliss must feel, when
Euryale had told her in subdued tones that her father was living, that Diodoros and her brother
had found a refuge in the house of Zeno, and that Andreas, Polybius, and all dear to them were
quite recovered after those evil days.  The town had long been rid of Caesar, and Zeno had
consented to allow his daughter Agatha to marry Alexander.

In obedience to her motherly adviser, the convalescent remained quiet for a while; but joy
seemed to have doubled her strength, for she desired to see Agatha, Alexander, and Andreas,
and--she colored, and a beseeching glance met Euryale's eyes--and Diodoros.

But meanwhile the physician Ptolemaeus had come into the room, and he would allow no one to
come near her this evening but Zeno's daughter. His grave eyes were dim with tears as, when
taking leave, he whispered to the Lady Euryale:

"All is well.  Even her mind is saved."

He was right.  From day to day and from hour to hour her recovery progressed and her strength
improved.  And there was much for her to see and hear, which did her more good than medicine,
even though she had been moved to fresh grief by the death of her brother and many friends.

Like Melissa, her lover and Alexander had been led by thorny paths to the stars which shine
on happy souls and shed their light in the hearts of those to whom the higher truth is revealed.
It was as Christians that Diodoros and Alexander both came to visit the convalescent.  That
which had won so many Alexandrians to the blessings of the new faith had attracted them too,
and the certainty of finding their beloved among the Christians had been an added inducement
to crave instruction from Zeno. And it had been given them in so zealous and captivating a
manner that, in their impressionable hearts, the desire for learning had soon been turned to
firm conviction and inspired ardor.

Agatha was betrothed to Alexander.

The scorn of his fellow-citizens, which had fallen on the innocent youth and which he had supposed
would prevent his ever winning her love, had in fact secured it to him, for Agatha's father
was very ready to trust his child to the man who had rescued her, whom she loved, and in whom
he saw one of the lowly who should be exalted.

Alexander was not told of Philip's death till his own wounds were healed; but he had meanwhile
confided to Andreas that he had made up his mind to fly to a distant land that he might never
again see Agatha, and thus not rob the brother on whom he had brought such disaster of the
woman he loved.  The freedman had heard him with deep emotion, and within a few hours after
Andreas had reported to Zeno the self-sacrificing youth's purpose, Zeno had gone to Alexander
and greeted him as his son.

Melissa found in Agatha the sister she had so long pined for; and how happy it made her to
see her brother's eyes once more sparkle with gladness!  Alexander, even as a Christian and
as Agatha's husband, remained an artist.

The fortune accumulated by Andreas--the solidi with which he had formerly paid the scapegrace
painter's debts included--was applied to the erection of a new and beautiful house of God on
the spot where Heron's house had stood.  Alexander decorated it with noble pictures, and as
this church was soon too small to accommodate the rapidly increasing congregation, he painted
the walls of yet another, with figures whose extreme beauty was famous throughout Christendom,
and which were preserved and admired till gloomy zealots prohibited the arts in churches and
destroyed their works.

Melissa could not be safe in Alexandria.  After being quietly married in the house of Polybius,
she, with her young husband and Andreas, moved to Carthage, where an uncle of Diodoros dwelt.
Love went them, and, with love, happiness.  They were not long compelled to remain in exile;
a few months after their marriage news was brought to Carthage that Caesar had been murdered
by the centurion Martialis, prompted by the tribunes Apollinaris and Nemesianus Aurelius. 
Immediately on this, Macrinus, the praetorian prefect, was proclaimed emperor by the troops.

The ambitious man's sovereignty lasted less than a year; still, the prophecy of Serapion was
fulfilled.  It cost the Magian his life indeed; for a letter written by him to the prefect,
in which he reminded him of what he had foretold, fell into the hands of Caracalla's mother,
who opened the letters addressed to her ill-fated son at Antioch, where she was then residing.
The warning it contained did not arrive, however, till after Caesar's death, and before the
new sovereign could effectually protect the soothsayer.  As soon as Macrinus had mounted the
throne the persecution of those who had roused the ire of the unhappy Caracalla was at an end.
Diodoros and Melissa, Heron and Polybius, could mingle once more with their fellow-citizens
secure from all pursuit.

Diodoros and other friends took care that the suspicion of treachery which had been cast on
Heron's household should be abundantly disproved. Nay, the death of Philip, and Melissa's and
Alexander's evil fortunes, placed them in the ranks of the foremost foes of tyranny.

Within ten months of his accession Macrinus was overthrown, after his defeat at Immae, where,
though the praetorians still fought for him bravely, he took ignominious flight; Julia Domna's
grandnephew was then proclaimed Caesar by the troops, under the name of Heliogabalus, and the
young emperor of fourteen had a statue and a cenotaph erected at Alexandria to Caracalla, whose
son he was falsely reputed to be.  These two works of art suffered severely at the hands of
those on whom the hated and luckless emperor had inflicted such fearful evils.  Still, on certain
memorial days they were decked with beautiful flowers; and when the new prefect, by order of
Caracalla's mother, made inquiry as to who it was that laid them there, he was informed that
they came from the finest garden in Alexandria, and that it was Melissa, the wife of the owner,
who offered them.  This comforted the heart of Julia Domna, and she would have blessed the
donor still more warmly if she could have known that Melissa included the name of her crazed
son in her prayers to her dying day.

Old Heron, who had settled on the estate of Diodoros and lived there among his birds, less
surly than of old, still produced his miniature works of art; he would shake his head over
those strange offerings, and once when he found himself alone with old Dido, now a freed-woman,
he said, irritably: "If that little fool had done as I told her she would be empress now, and
as good as Julia Domna.  But all has turned out well-- only that Argutis, whom every one treats
as if our old Macedonian blood ran in his veins, was sent yesterday by Melissa with finer flowers
for Caracalla's cenotaph than for her own mother's tomb--May her new-fangled god forgive her!
There is some Christian nonsense at the bottom of it, no doubt.  I stick to the old gods whom
my Olympias served, and she always did the best in everything."

Old Polybius, too, remained a heathen; but he allowed the children to please themselves.  He
and Heron saw their grandchildren brought up as Christians without a remonstrance, for they
both understood that Christianity was the faith of the future.

Andreas to his latest day was ever the faithful adviser of old and young alike.  In the sunshine
of love which smiled upon him his austere zeal turned to considerate tenderness.  When at last
he lay on his death-bed, and shortly before the end, Melissa asked him what was his favorite
verse of the Scriptures, he replied firmly and decidedly:

"Now the fullness of time is come."

"So be it," replied Melissa with tears in her eyes.  He smiled and nodded, signed to Diodoros
to draw off his signet ring--the only thing his father had saved from the days of his wealth
and freedom--and desired Melissa to keep it for his sake.  Deeply moved, she put it on her
finger; but Andreas pointed to the motto, and said with failing utterance:

"That is your road--and mine--my father's motto: Per aspera ad astra.  It has guided me to
my goal, and you--all of you.  But the words are in Latin; you understand them?  By rough ways
to the stars--Nay what they say to me is: Upward, under the burden of the cross, to bliss here
and hereafter--And you too," he added, looking in his darling's face.  "You too, both of you;
I know it."

He sighed deeply, and, laying his hand on Melissa's head as she knelt by his bed, he closed
his faithful eyes in the supporting arms of Diodoros.

