I asked my new friend whether he could not direct me to any house of public entertainment for
the night; and supposing it probable he was himself a poor man, I added, with the conscious
dignity of a well-filled pocket-book, that I could make it worth any man's while to oblige
me. The fisherman making no answer, I turned away from him with as gallant an appearance of
indifference as I could command, and began to take, as I thought, the path which he had pointed
out to me.

His deep voice immediately sounded after me to recall me. 'Stay, young man, stay--you have
mistaken the road already.--I wonder your friends sent out such an inconsiderate youth, without
some one wiser than himself to take care of him.'

'Perhaps they might not have done so,' said I, 'if I had any friends who cared about the matter.'

'Well, sir,' he said, 'it is not my custom to open my house to strangers, but your pinch is
like to be a smart one; for, besides the risk from bad roads, fords, and broken ground, and
the night, which looks both black and gloomy, there is bad company on the road sometimes--at
least it has a bad name, and some have come to harm; so that I think I must for once make my
rule give way to your necessity, and give you a night's lodging in my cottage.

Why was it, Alan, that I could not help giving an involuntary shudder at receiving an invitation
so seasonable in itself, and so suitable to my naturally inquisitive disposition? I easily
suppressed this untimely sensation; and as I returned thanks, and expressed my hope that I
should not disarrange, his family, I once more dropped a hint of my desire to make compensation
for any trouble I might occasion. The man answered very coldly, 'Your presence will no doubt
give me trouble, sir, but it is of a kind which your purse, cannot compensate; in a word, although
I am content to receive you as my guest, I am no publican to call a reckoning.'

I begged his pardon, and, at his instance, once more seated myself behind hint upon the good
horse, which went forth steady as before--the moon, whenever she could penetrate the clouds,
throwing the huge shadow of the animal, with its double burden, on the wild and bare ground
over which we passed.

Thou mayst laugh till thou lettest the letter fall, if thou wilt, but it reminded me of the
magician Atlantes on his hippogriff with a knight trussed up behind him, in the manner Ariosto
has depicted that matter. Thou art I know, matter-of-fact enough to affect contempt of that
fascinating and delicious poem; but think not that, to conform with thy bad taste, I shall
forbear any suitable illustration which now or hereafter may occur to me.

On we went, the sky blackening around us, and the wind beginning to pipe such a wild and melancholy
tune as best suited the hollow sounds of the advancing tide, which I could hear at a distance,
like the roar of some immense monster defrauded of its prey.

At length, our course was crossed by a deep dell or dingle, such as they call in some parts
of Scotland a den, and in others a cleuch or narrow glen. It seemed, by the broken glances
which the moon continued to throw upon it, to be steep, precipitous, and full of trees, which
are, generally speaking, rather scarce upon these shores. The descent by which we plunged into
this dell was both steep and rugged, with two or three abrupt turnings; but neither danger
nor darkness impeded the motion of the black horse, who seemed rather to slide upon his haunches,
than to gallop down the pass, throwing me again on the shoulders of the athletic rider, who,
sustaining no inconvenience by the circumstance, continued to press the horse forward with
his heel, steadily supporting him at the same time by raising his bridle-hand, until we stood
in safety at the bottom of the steep--not a little to my consolation, as, friend Alan, thou
mayst easily conceive.

A very short advance up the glen, the bottom of which we had attained by this ugly descent,
brought us in front of two or three cottages, one of which another blink of moonshine enabled
me to rate as rather better than those of the Scottish peasantry in this part of the world;
for the sashes seemed glazed, and there were what are called storm-windows in the roof, giving
symptoms of the magnificence of a second story. The scene around was very interesting; for
the cottages, and the yards or crofts annexed to them, occupied a haugh, or helm, of two acres,
which a brook of some consequence (to judge from its roar) had left upon one side of the little
glen while finding its course close to the farther bank, and which appeared to be covered and
darkened with trees, while the level space beneath enjoyed such stormy smiles as the moon had
that night to bestow.

I had little time for observation, for my companion's loud whistle, seconded by an equally
loud halloo, speedily brought to the door of the principal cottage a man and a woman, together
with two large Newfoundland dogs, the deep baying of which I had for some time heard. A yelping
terrier or two, which had joined the concert, were silent at the presence of my conductor,
and began to whine, jump up, and fawn upon him. The female drew back when she beheld a stranger;
the man, who had a lighted lantern, advanced, and, without any observation, received the horse
from my host, and led him, doubtless, to stable, while I followed my conductor into the house.
When we had passed the HALLAN, [The partition which divides a Scottish cottage.] we entered
a well-sized apartment, with a clean brick floor, where a fire blazed (much to my contentment)
in the ordinary projecting sort of a chimney, common in Scottish houses. There were stone seats
within the chimney; and ordinary utensils, mixed with fishing-spears, nets, and similar implements
of sport, were hung around the walls of the place. The female who had first appeared at the
door, had now retreated into a side apartment. She was presently followed by my guide, after
he had silently motioned me to a seat; and their place was supplied by an elderly woman, in
a grey stuff gown, with a check apron and toy, obviously a menial, though neater in her dress
than is usual in her apparent rank--an advantage which was counterbalanced by a very forbidding
aspect. But the most singular part of her attire, in this very Protestant country, was a rosary,
in which the smaller beads were black oak, and those indicating the PATER-NOSTER of silver,
with a crucifix of the same metal.

This person made preparations for supper, by spreading a clean though coarse cloth over a large
oaken table, placing trenchers and salt upon it, and arranging the fire to receive a gridiron.
I observed her motions in silence; for she took no sort of notice of me, and as her looks were
singularly forbidding, I felt no disposition to commence conversation.

When this duenna had made all preliminary arrangements, she took from the well-filled pouch
of my conductor, which he had hung up by the door, one or two salmon, or GRILSES, as the smaller
sort are termed, and selecting that which seemed best and in highest season, began to cut it
into slices, and to prepare a GRILLADE; the savoury smell of which affected me so powerfully
that I began sincerely to hope that no delay would intervene between the platter and the lip.

As this thought came across me, the man who had conducted the horse to the stable entered the
apartment, and discovered to me a countenance yet more uninviting than that of the old crone
who was performing with such dexterity the office of cook to the party. He was perhaps sixty
years old; yet his brow was not much furrowed, and his jet-black hair was only grizzled, not
whitened, by the advance of age. All his motions spoke strength unabated; and, though rather
undersized, he had very broad shoulders, was square-made, thin-flanked, and apparently combined
in his frame muscular strength and activity; the last somewhat impaired perhaps by years, but
the first remaining in full vigour. A hard and harsh countenance--eyes far sunk under projecting
eyebrows, which were grizzled like his hair--a wide mouth, furnished from ear to ear with it
range of unimpaired teeth, of uncommon whiteness, and a size and breadth which might have become
the jaws of an ogre, completed this delightful portrait. He was clad like a fisherman, in jacket
and trousers of the blue cloth commonly used by seamen, and had a Dutch case-knife, like that
of a Hamburgh skipper, stuck into a broad buff belt, which seemed as if it might occasionally
sustain weapons of a description still less equivocally calculated for violence.

This man gave me an inquisitive, and, as I thought, a sinister look upon entering the apartment;
but without any further notice of me, took up the office of arranging the table, which the
old lady had abandoned for that of cooking the fish, and, with more address than I expected
from a person of his coarse appearance, placed two chairs at the head of the table, and two
stools below; accommodating each seat to a cover, beside which he placed an allowance of barley-bread,
and a small jug, which he replenished with ale from a large black jack. Three of these jugs
were of ordinary earthenware, but the fourth, which he placed by the right-hand cover at, the
upper end of the table, was a flagon of silver, and displayed armorial bearings. Beside this
flagon he placed a salt-cellar of silver, handsomely wrought, containing salt of exquisite
whiteness, with pepper and other spices. A sliced lemon was also presented on a small silver
salver. The two large water-dogs, who seemed perfectly to understand the nature of the preparations,
seated themselves one on each side of the table, to be ready to receive their portion of the
entertainment. I never saw finer animals, or which seemed to be more influenced by a sense
of decorum, excepting that they slobbered a little as the rich scent from the chimney was wafted
past their noses. The small dogs ensconced themselves beneath the table.

I am aware that I am dwelling upon trivial and ordinary circumstances, and that perhaps I may
weary out your patience in doing so. But conceive me alone in this strange place, which seemed,
from the universal silence, to be the very temple of Harpocrates--remember that this is my
first excursion from home--forget not that the manner in which I had been brought hither had
the dignity of danger and something the air of an adventure, and that there was a mysterious
incongruity in all I had hitherto witnessed; and you will not, I think, be surprised that these
circumstances, though trifling, should force themselves on my notice at the time, and dwell
in my memory afterwards.

That a fisher, who pursued the sport perhaps for his amusement as well as profit, should be
well mounted and better lodged than the lower class of peasantry, had in it nothing surprising;
but there was something about all that I saw which seemed to intimate that I was rather in
the abode of a decayed gentleman, who clung to a few of the forms and observances of former
rank, than in that of a common peasant, raised above his fellows by comparative opulence.

Besides the articles of plate which I have already noticed, the old man now lighted and placed
on the table a silver lamp, or CRUISIE as the Scottish term it, filled with very pure oil,
which in burning diffused an aromatic fragrance, and gave me a more perfect view of the cottage
walls, which I had hitherto only seen dimly by the light of the fire. The BINK [The frame of
wooden shelves placed in a Scottish kitchen for holding plates.] with its usual arrangement
of pewter and earthenware, which was most strictly and critically clean, glanced back the flame
of the lamp merrily from one side of the apartment. In a recess, formed by the small bow of
a latticed window, was a large writing-desk of walnut-tree wood, curiously carved, above which
arose shelves of the same, which supported a few books and papers. The opposite side of the
recess contained (as far as I could discern, for it lay in shadow, and I could at any rate
have seen it but imperfectly from the place where I was seated) one or two guns, together with
swords, pistols, and other arms a collection which, in a poor cottage, and in a country so
peaceful, appeared singular at least, if not even somewhat suspicious.

All these observations, you may suppose, were made much sooner than I have recorded, or you
(if you have not skipped) have been able to read them. They were already finished, and I was
considering how I should open some communication with the mute inhabitants of the mansion,
when my conductor re-entered from the side-door by which he had made his exit.

He had now thrown off his rough riding-cap, and his coarse jockey-coat, And stood before me
in a grey jerkin trimmed with black, which sat close to, and set off, his large and sinewy
frame, and a pair of trousers of a lighter colour, cut as close to the body as they are used
by Highlandmen. His whole dress was of finer cloth than that of the old man; and his linen,
so minute was my observation, clean and unsullied. His shirt was without ruffles, and tied
at the collar with a black ribbon, which showed his strong and muscular neck rising from it
like that of an ancient Hercules. His head was small, with a large forehead, and well-formed
ears. He wore neither peruke nor hair-powder; and his chestnut locks, curling close to his
head like those of an antique statue, showed not the least touch of time, though the owner
must have been at least fifty. His features were high and prominent in such a degree that one
knew not whether to term them harsh or handsome. In either case, the sparkling grey eye, aquiline
nose, and well-formed mouth, combined to render his physiognomy noble and expressive. An air
of sadness, or severity, or of both, seemed to indicate a melancholy, and, at the same time,
a haughty temper. I could not help running mentally over the ancient heroes, to whom I might
assimilate the noble form and countenance before me. He was too young, and evinced too little
resignation to his fate, to resemble Belisarius. Coriolanus, standing by the hearth of Tullus
Aufidius, came nearer the mark; yet the gloomy and haughty look of the stranger had, perhaps,
still more of Marius, seated among the ruins of Carthage.

While I was lost in these imaginations, my host stood by the fire, gazing on me with the same
attention which I paid to him, until, embarrassed by his look, I was about to break silence
at all hazards. But the supper, now placed upon the table, reminded me, by its appearance,
of those wants which I had almost forgotten while I was gazing on the fine form of my conductor.
He spoke at length, and I almost started at the deep rich tone of his voice, though what he
said was but to invite me to sit down to the table. He himself assumed the seat of honour,
beside which the silver flagon was placed, and beckoned to me to sit down beside him.

Thou knowest thy father's strict and excellent domestic discipline has trained me to bear the
invocation of a blessing before we break the daily bread, for which we are taught to pray--I
paused a moment, and, without designing to do so, I suppose my manner made him sensible of
what I expected. The two domestics or inferiors, as I should have before observed, were already
seated at the bottom of the table, when my host shot a glance of a very peculiar expression
towards the old man, observing, with something approaching to a sneer, 'Cristal Nixon, say
grace--the gentleman expects one.'

'The foul fiend shall be clerk, and say amen, when I turn chaplain,' growled out the party
addressed, in tones which might have become the condition of a dying bear; 'if the gentleman
is a whig, he may please himself with his own mummery. My faith is neither in word nor writ,
but in barley-bread and brown ale.'

'Mabel Moffat,' said my guide, looking at the old woman, and raising his sonorous voice, probably
because she was hard of hearing, 'canst thou ask a blessing upon our victuals?'

The old woman shook her head, kissed the cross which hung from her rosary, and was silent.

'Mabel will say grace for no heretic,' said the master of the house, with the same latent sneer
on his brow and in his accent.

At the same moment, the side-door already mentioned opened, and the young woman (so she proved)
whom I had first seen at the door of the cottage, advanced a little way into the room, then
stopped bashfully, as if she had observed that I was looking at her, and asked the master of
the house, 'if he had called?'

'Not louder than to make old Mabel hear me,' he replied; 'and yet,' be added, as she turned
to retire, 'it is a shame a stranger should see a house where not one of the family can or
will say a grace--do thou be our chaplain.'

The girl, who was really pretty, came forward with timid modesty, and, apparently unconscious
that she was doing anything uncommon, pronounced the benediction in a silver-toned voice, and
with affecting simplicity--her cheek colouring just so much as to show that on a less solemn
occasion she would have felt more embarrassed.

Now, if thou expectest a fine description of this young woman, Alan Fairford, in order to entitle
thee to taunt me with having found a Dulcinea in the inhabitant of a fisherman's cottage on
the Solway Firth, thou shalt be disappointed; for, having said she seemed very pretty, and
that she was a sweet and gentle-speaking creature, I have said all concerning her that I can
tell thee. She vanished when the benediction was spoken.

My host, with a muttered remark on the cold of our ride, and the keen air of the Solway Sands,
to which he did not seem to wish an answer, loaded my plate from Mabel's grillade, which, with
a large wooden bowl of potatoes, formed our whole meal. A sprinkling from the lemon gave a
much higher zest than the usual condiment of vinegar; and I promise you that whatever I might
hitherto have felt, either of curiosity or suspicion, did not prevent me from making a most
excellent supper, during which little passed betwixt me and my entertainer, unless that he
did the usual honours of the table with courtesy, indeed, but without even the affectation
of hearty hospitality, which those in his (apparent) condition generally affect on such occasions,
even when they do not actually feel it. On the contrary, his manner seemed that of a polished
landlord towards an unexpected and unwelcome guest, whom, for the sake of his own credit, he
receives with civility, but without either goodwill or cheerfulness.

If you ask how I learned all this, I cannot tell you; nor, were I to write down at length the
insignificant intercourse which took place between us, would it perhaps serve to justify these
observations. It is sufficient to say, that in helping his dogs, which he did from time to
time with great liberality, he seemed to discharge a duty much more pleasing to himself, than
when he paid the same attention to his guest. Upon the whole, the result on my mind was as
I tell it you.

When supper was over, a small case-bottle of brandy, in a curious frame of silver filigree,
circulated to the guests. I had already taken a small glass of the liquor, and, when it had
passed to Mabel and to Cristal and was again returned to the upper end of the table, I could
not help taking the bottle in my hand, to look more at the armorial bearings which were chased
with considerable taste on the silver framework. Encountering the eye of my entertainer, I
instantly saw that my curiosity was highly distasteful; he frowned, bit his lip, and showed
such uncontrollable signs of impatience, that, setting the bottle immediately down, I attempted
some apology. To this he did not deign either to reply, or even to listen; and Cristal, at
a signal from his master, removed the object of my curiosity, as well as the cup, upon which
the same arms were engraved.

Then ensued an awkward pause, which I endeavoured to break by observing, that 'I feared my
intrusion upon his hospitality had put his family to some inconvenience'.

'I hope you see no appearance of it, sir,' he replied, with cold civility. 'What inconvenience
a family so retired as ours may suffer from receiving an unexpected guest is like to be trifling,
in comparison of what the visitor himself sustains from want of his accustomed comforts. So
far, therefore, as our connexion stands, our accounts stand clear.'

Notwithstanding this discouraging reply, I blundered on, as is usual in such cases, wishing
to appear civil, and being, perhaps, in reality the very reverse. 'I was afraid,' I said, that
my presence had banished one of the family' (looking at the side-door) 'from his table.'

'If,' he coldly replied, 'I meant the young woman whom I had seen in the apartment, he bid
me observe that there was room enough at the table for her to have seated herself, and meat
enough, such as it was, for her supper. I might, therefore, be assured, if she had chosen it,
she would have supped with us.'

There was no dwelling on this or any other topic longer; for my entertainer, taking up the
lamp, observed, that 'my wet clothes might reconcile me for the night to their custom of keeping
early hours; that he was under the necessity of going abroad by peep of day to-morrow morning,
and would call me up at the same time, to point out the way by which I was to return to the
Shepherd's Bush.'

This left no opening for further explanation; nor was there room for it on the usual terms
of civility; for, as he neither asked my name, nor expressed the least interest concerning
my condition, I--the obliged person--had no pretence to trouble him with such inquiries on my part.

He took up the lamp, and led me through the side-door into a very small room, where a bed had
been hastily arranged for my accommodation, and, putting down the lamp, directed me to leave
my wet clothes on the outside of the door, that they might be exposed to the fire during the
night. He then left me, having muttered something which was meant to pass for good night.

I obeyed his directions with respect to my clothes, the rather that, in despite of the spirits
which I had drunk, I felt my teeth begin to chatter, and received various hints from an aguish
feeling, that a town-bred youth, like myself, could not at once rush into all the hardihood
of country sports with impunity. But my bed, though coarse and hard, was dry and clean; and
I soon was so little occupied with my heats and tremors, as to listen with interest to a heavy
foot, which seemed to be that of my landlord, traversing the boards (there was no ceiling,
as you may believe) which roofed my apartment. Light, glancing through these rude planks, became
visible as soon as my lamp was extinguished; and as the noise of the slow, solemn, and regular
step continued, and I could distinguish that the person turned and returned as he reached the
end of the apartment, it seemed clear to me that the walker was engaged in no domestic occupation,
but merely pacing to and fro for his own pleasure. 'An odd amusement this,' I thought, 'for
one who had been engaged at least a part of the preceding day in violent exercise, and who
talked of rising by the peep of dawn on the ensuing morning.'

Meantime I heard the storm, which had been brewing during the evening, begin to descend with
a vengeance; sounds as of distant-thunder (the noise of the more distant waves, doubtless,
on the shore) mingled with the roaring of the neighbouring torrent, and with the crashing,
groaning, and even screaming of the trees in the glen whose boughs were tormented by the gale.
Within the house, windows clattered, and doors clapped, and the walls, though sufficiently
substantial for a building of the kind, seemed to me to totter in the tempest.

But still the heavy steps perambulating the apartment over my head were distinctly heard amid
the roar and fury of the elements. I thought more than once I even heard a groan; but I frankly
own that, placed in this unusual situation, my fancy may have misled me. I was tempted several
times to call aloud, and ask whether the turmoil around us did not threaten danger to the building
which we inhabited; but when I thought of the secluded and unsocial master of the dwelling,
who seemed to avoid human society, and to remain unperturbed amid the elemental war, it seemed
that to speak to him at that moment would have been to address the spirit of the tempest himself,
since no other being, I thought, could have remained calm and tranquil while winds and waters
were thus raging around.

In process of time, fatigue prevailed over anxiety and curiosity. The storm abated, or my senses
became deadened to its terrors, and I fell asleep ere yet the mysterious paces of my host had
ceased to shake the flooring over my head.

It might have been expected that the novelty of my situation, although it did not prevent my
slumbers, would have at least diminished their profoundness, and shortened their duration.
It proved otherwise, however; for I never slept more soundly in my life, and only awoke when,
at morning dawn, my landlord shook me by the shoulder, and dispelled some dream, of which,
fortunately for you, I have no recollection, otherwise you would have been favoured with it,
in hopes you might have proved a second Daniel upon the occasion.

'You sleep sound--' said his full deep voice; 'ere five years have rolled over your head, your
slumbers will be lighter--unless ere then you are wrapped in the sleep which is never broken.'

'How!' said I, starting up in the bed; 'do you know anything of me--of my prospects--of my
views in life?'

'Nothing,' he answered, with a grim smile; 'but it is evident you are entering upon the world
young, inexperienced, and full of hopes, and I do but prophesy to you what I would to any one
in your condition. But come; there lie your clothes--a brown crust and a draught of milk wait
you, if you choose to break your fast; but you must make haste.'

'I must first,' I said, 'take the freedom to spend a few minutes alone, before beginning the
ordinary works of the day.'

'Oh!--umph!--I cry your devotions pardon,' he replied, and left the apartment.

Alan, there is something terrible about this man.

I joined him, as I had promised, in the kitchen where we had supped overnight, where I found
the articles which he had offered me for breakfast, without butter or any other addition.

He walked up and down while I partook of the bread and milk; and the slow measured weighty
step seemed identified with those which I had heard last night. His pace, from its funereal
slowness, seemed to keep time with some current of internal passion, dark, slow, and unchanged.
'We run and leap by the side of a lively and bubbling brook,' thought I, internally, 'as if
we would run a race with it; but beside waters deep, slow, and lonely, our pace is sullen and
silent as their course. What thoughts may be now corresponding with that furrowed brow, and
bearing time with that heavy step?'

'If you have finished,' said he, looking up to me with a glance of impatience, as he observed
that I ate no longer, but remained with my eyes fixed upon him, 'I wait to show you the way.'

We went out together, no individual of the family having been visible excepting my landlord.
I was disappointed of the opportunity which I watched for of giving some gratuity to the domestics,
as they seemed to be. As for offering any recompense to the master of the household, it seemed
to me impossible to have attempted it.

What would I have given for a share of thy composure, who wouldst have thrust half a crown
into a man's hand whose necessities seemed to crave it, conscious that you did right in making
the proffer, and not caring sixpence whether you hurt the feelings of him whom you meant to
serve! I saw thee once give a penny to a man with a long beard, who, from the dignity of his
exterior, might have represented Solon. I had not thy courage, and therefore I made no tender
to my mysterious host, although, notwithstanding his display of silver utensils, all around
the house bespoke narrow circumstances, if not actual poverty.

We left the place together. But I hear thee murmur thy very new and appropriate ejaculation,
OHE, JAM SATIS!--The rest for another time. Perhaps I may delay further communication till
I learn how my favours are valued.

LETTER V

ALAN FAIRFORD TO DARSIE LATIMER

I have thy two last epistles, my dear Darsie, and expecting the third, have been in no hurry
to answer them. Do not think my silence ought to be ascribed to my failing to take interest
in them, for, truly, they excel (though the task was difficult) thy usual excellings. Since
the moon-calf who earliest discovered the Pandemonium of Milton in an expiring wood-fire--since
the first ingenious urchin who blew bubbles out of soap and water, thou, my best of friends,
hast the highest knack at making histories out of nothing. Wert thou to plant the bean in the
nursery-tale, thou wouldst make out, so soon as it began to germinate, that the castle of the
giant was about to elevate its battlements on the top of it. All that happens to thee gets
a touch of the wonderful and the sublime from thy own rich imagination. Didst ever see what
artists call a Claude Lorraine glass, which spreads its own particular hue over the whole landscape
which you see through it?--thou beholdest ordinary events just through such a medium.

I have looked carefully at the facts of thy last long letter, and they are just such as might
have befallen any little truant of the High School, who had got down to Leith Sands, gone beyond
the PRAWN-DUB, wet his hose and shoon, and, finally, had been carried home, in compassion,
by some high-kilted fishwife, cursing all the while the trouble which the brat occasioned her.

I admire the figure which thou must have made, clinging for dear life behind the old fellow's
back--thy jaws chattering with fear, thy muscles cramped with anxiety. Thy execrable supper
of broiled salmon, which was enough to ensure the nightmare's regular visits for a twelvemonth,
may be termed a real affliction; but as for the storm of Thursday last (such, I observe, was
the date), it roared, whistled, howled, and bellowed, as fearfully amongst the old chimney-heads
in the Candlemaker Row, as it could on the Solway shore, for the very wind of it--TESTE ME
PER TOTAM NOCTEM VIGILANTE. And then in the morning again, when--Lord help you--in your sentimental
delicacy you bid the poor man adieu, without even tendering him half a crown for supper and
lodging!

You laugh at me for giving a penny (to be accurate, though, thou shouldst have said sixpence)
to an old fellow, whom thou, in thy high flight, wouldst have sent home supperless, because
he was like Solon or Belisarius. But you forget that the affront descended like a benediction
into the pouch of the old gaberlunzie, who overflowed in blessings upon the generous donor--long
ere he would have thanked thee, Darsie, for thy barren veneration of his beard and his bearing.
Then you laugh at my good father's retreat from Falkirk, just as if it were not time for a
man to trudge when three or four mountain knaves, with naked claymores, and heels as light
as their fingers, were scampering after him, crying FURINISH. You remember what he said himself
when the Laird of Bucklivat told him that FURINISH signified 'stay a while'. 'What the devil,'
he said, surprised out of his Presbyterian correctness by the unreasonableness of such a request
under the circumstances, 'would the scoundrels have had me stop to have my head cut off?'

Imagine such a train at your own heels, Darsie, and ask yourself whether you would not exert
your legs as fast as you did in flying from the Solway tide. And yet you impeach my father's
courage. I tell you he has courage enough to do what is right, and to spurn what is wrong--courage
enough to defend a righteous cause with hand and purse, and to take the part of the poor man
against his oppressor, without fear of the consequences to himself. This is civil courage,
Darsie; and it is of little consequence to most men in this age and country whether they ever
possess military courage or no.

Do not think I am angry with you, though I thus attempt to rectify your opinions on my father's
account. I am well aware that, upon the whole, he is scarce regarded with more respect by me
than by thee. And, while I am in a serious humour, which it is difficult to preserve with one
who is perpetually tempting me to laugh at him, pray, dearest Darsie, let not thy ardour for
adventure carry thee into more such scrapes as that of the Solway Sands. The rest of the story
is a mere imagination; but that stormy evening might have proved, as the clown says to Lear,
'a naughty night to swim in.'

As for the rest, if you can work mysterious and romantic heroes out of old cross-grained fishermen,
why, I for one will reap some amusement by the metamorphosis. Yet hold! even there, there is
some need of caution. This same female chaplain--thou sayest so little of her, and so much
of every one else, that it excites some doubt in my mind. VERY PRETTY she is, it seems--and
that is all thy discretion informs me of. There are cases in which silence implies other things
than consent. Wert thou ashamed or afraid, Darsie, to trust thyself with the praises of the
very pretty grace-sayer?--As I live, thou blushest! Why, do I not know thee an inveterate squire
of dames? and have I not been in thy confidence? An elegant elbow, displayed when the rest
of the figure was muffled in a cardinal, or a neat well-turned ankle and instep, seen by chance
as its owner tripped up the Old Assembly Close, [Of old this almost deserted alley formed the
most common access betwixt the High Street and the southern suburbs.] turned thy brain for
eight days. Thou wert once caught if I remember rightly, with a single glance of a single matchless
eye, which, when the fair owner withdrew her veil, proved to be single in the literal sense
of the word. And, besides, were you not another time enamoured of a voice--a mere voice, that
mingled in the psalmody at the Old Greyfriars' Church--until you discovered the proprietor
of that dulcet organ to be Miss Dolly MacIzzard, who is both 'back and breast', as our saying goes?

All these things considered, and contrasted with thy artful silence on the subject of this
grace-saying Nereid of thine, I must beg thee to be more explicit upon that subject in thy
next, unless thou wouldst have me form the conclusion that thou thinkest more of her than thou
carest to talk of.

You will not expect much news from this quarter, as you know the monotony of my life, and are
aware it must at present be devoted to uninterrupted study. You have said a thousand times
that I am only qualified to make my way by dint of plodding, and therefore plod I must.

My father seems to be more impatient of your absence than he was after your first departure.
He is sensible, I believe, that our solitary meals want the light which your gay humour was
wont to throw over them, and feels melancholy as men do when the light of the sun is no longer
upon the landscape. If it is thus with him, thou mayst imagine it is much more so with me,
and canst conceive how heartily I wish that thy frolic were ended, and thou once more our inmate.----

I resume my pen, after a few hours' interval, to say that an incident has occurred on which
you will yourself be building a hundred castles in the air, and which even I, jealous as I
am of such baseless fabrics, cannot but own affords ground for singular conjecture.

My father has of late taken me frequently along with him when he attends the courts, in his
anxiety to see me properly initiated into the practical forms of business. I own I feel something
on his account and my own from this over-anxiety, which, I dare say, renders us both ridiculous.
But what signifies my repugnance? my father drags me up to his counsel learned in the law,--'Are
you quite ready to come on to-day, Mr. Crossbite?--This is my son, designed for the bar--I
take the liberty to bring him with me to-day to the consultation, merely that he may see how
these things are managed.'

Mr. Crossbite smiles and bows; as a lawyer smiles on the solicitor who employs him, and I dare
say, thrusts his tongue into his cheek, and whispers into the first great wig that passes him,
'What the d--l does old Fairford mean by letting loose his whelp on me?'

As I stood beside them, too much vexed at the childish part I was made to play to derive much
information from the valuable arguments of Mr. Crossbite, I observed a rather elderly man,
who stood with his eyes firmly bent on my father, as if he only waited an end of the business
in which he was engaged, to address him. There was something, I thought, in the gentleman's
appearance which commanded attention. Yet his dress was not in the present taste, and though
it had once been magnificent, was now antiquated and unfashionable. His coat was of branched
velvet, with a satin lining, a waistcoat of violet-coloured silk, much embroidered; his breeches
the same stuff as the coat. He wore square-toed shoes, with foretops, as they are called; and
his silk stockings were rolled up over his knee, as you may have seen in pictures, and here
and there on some of those originals who seem to pique themselves on dressing after the mode
of Methuselah. A CHAPEAU BRAS and sword necessarily completed his equipment, which, though
out of date, showed that it belonged to a man of distinction.

The instant Mr. Crossbite had ended what he had to say, this gentleman walked up to my father,
with, 'Your servant, Mr. Fairford--it is long since you and I met.'

My father, whose politeness, you know, is exact and formal, bowed, and hemmed, and was confused,
and at length professed that the distance since they had met was so great, that though he remembered
the face perfectly, the name, he was sorry to any, had--really--somehow--escaped his memory.

'Have you forgot Herries of Birrenswork?' said the gentleman, and my father bowed even more
profoundly than before; though I think his reception of his old friend seemed to lose some
of the respectful civility which he bestowed on him while his name was yet unknown. It now
seemed to be something like the lip-courtesy which the heart would have denied had ceremony
permitted.

My father, however, again bowed low, and hoped he saw him well.

'So well, my good Mr. Fairford, that I come hither determined to renew my acquaintance with
one or two old friends, and with you in the first place. I halt at my old resting place--you
must dine with me to-day, at Paterson's, at the head of the Horse Wynd--it is near your new
fashionable dwelling, and I have business with you.'

My father excused himself respectfully, and not without embarrassment--'he was particularly
engaged at home.'

'Then I will dine with you, man,' said Mr. Herries of Birrenswork; 'the few minutes you can
spare me after dinner will suffice for my business; and I will not prevent you a moment from
minding your own--I am no bottle-man.'

You have often remarked that my father, though a scrupulous ohserver of the rites of hospitality,
seems to exercise them rather as a duty than as a pleasure; indeed, but for a conscientious
wish to feed the hungry and receive the stranger, his doors would open to guests much seldomer
than is the case. I never saw so strong an example of this peculiarity (which I should otherwise
have said is caricatured in your description) as in his mode of homologating the self-given
invitation of Mr. Herries. The embarsassed brow, and the attempt at a smile which accompanied
his 'We will expect the honour of seeing you in Brown Square at three o'clock,' could not deceive
any one, and did not impose upon the old laird. It was with a look of scorn that he replied,
'I will relieve you then till that hour, Mr. Fairford;' and his whole manner seemed to say,
'It is my pleasure to dine with you, and I care not whether I am welcome or no.'

When he turned away, I asked my father who he was.

'An unfortunate gentleman,' was the reply.

'He looks pretty well on his misfortunes,' replied I. 'I should not have suspected that so
gay an outside was lacking a dinner.'

'Who told you that he does?' replied my father; 'he is OMNI SUSPICIONE MAJOR, so far as worldly
circumstances are concerned. It is to be hoped he makes a good use of them; though, if he does,
it will be for the first time in his life.'

'He has then been an irregular liver?' insinuated I.

My father replied by that famous brocard with which he silences all unacceptable queries turning
in the slightest degree upon the failings of our neighbours,--'If we mend our own faults, Alan,
we shall all of us have enough to do, without sitting in judgement upon other folks.'

Here I was again at fault; but rallying once more, I observed, he had the air of a man of high
rank and family.

'He is well entitled,' said my father, 'representing Herries of Birrenswork; a branch of that
great and once powerful family of Herries, the elder branch whereof merged in the house of
Nithesdale at the death of Lord Robin the Philosopher, Anno Domini sixteen hundred and sixty-seven.'

'Has he still,' said I, 'his patrimonial estate of Birrenswork?'

'No,' replied my father; 'so far back as his father's time, it was a mere designation--the
property being forfeited by Herbert Herries following his kinsman the Earl of Derwentwater
to the Preston affair in 1715. But they keep up the designation, thinking, doubtless, that
their claims may be revived in more favourable times for Jacobites and for popery; and folks
who in no way partake of their fantastic capriccios do yet allow it to pass unchallenged, EX
COMITATE, if not EX MISERICORDIA.--But were he the Pope and the Pretender both, we must get
some dinner ready for him, since he has thought fit to offer himself. So hasten home, my lad,
and tell Hannah, Cook Epps, and James Wilkinson, to do their best; and do thou look out a pint
or two of Maxwell's best--it is in the fifth bin--there are the keys of the wine-cellar. Do
not leave them in the lock--you know poor James's failing, though he is an honest creature
under all other temptations--and I have but two bottles of the old brandy left--we must keep
it for medicine, Alan.'

Away went I--made my preparations--the hour of dinner came, and so did Mr. Herries of Birrenswork.

If I had thy power of imagination and description, Darsie, I could make out a fine, dark, mysterious,
Rembrandt-looking portrait of this same stranger, which should be as far superior to thy fisherman
as a shirt of chain-mail is to a herring-net. I can assure you there is some matter for description
about him; but knowing my own imperfections, I can only say, I thought him eminently disagreeable
and ill-bred.--No, ILL-BRED is not the proper word on the contrary, he appeared to know the
rules of good-breeding perfectly, and only to think that the rank of the company did not require
that he should attend to them--a view of the matter infinitely more offensive than if his behaviour
had been that of uneducated and proper rudeness. While my father said grace, the laird did
all but whistle aloud; and when I, at my father's desire, returned thanks, he used his toothpick,
as if he had waited that moment for its exercise.

So much for Kirk--with King, matters went even worse. My father, thou knowest, is particularly
full of deference to his guests; and in the present care, he seemed more than usually desirous
to escape every cause of dispute. He so far compromised his loyalty as to announce merely 'The
King' as his first toast after dinner, instead of the emphatic 'King George', which is his
usual formula. Our guest made a motion with his glass, so as to pass it over the water-decanter
which stood beside him, and added, 'Over the water.'

My father coloured, but would not seem to hear this. Much more there was of careless and disrespectful
in the stranger's manner and tone of conversation; so that, though I know my father's prejudices
in favour of rank and birth, and though I am aware his otherwise masculine understanding has
never entirely shaken off the slavish awe of the great which in his earlier days they had so
many modes of commanding, still I could hardly excuse him for enduring so much insolence--such
it seemed to be as this self-invited guest was disposed to offer to him at his own table.

One can endure a traveller in the same carriage, if he treads upon your toes by accident, or
even through negligence; but it is very different when, knowing that they are rather of a tender
description, he continues to pound away at them with his hoofs. In my poor opinion--and I am
a man of peace--you can, in that case, hardly avoid a declaration of war.

I believe my father read my thoughts in my eye; for, pulling out his watch, he said; 'Half-past
four, Alan--you should be in your own room by this time--Birrenswork will excuse you.'

Our visitor nodded carelessly, and I had no longer any pretence to remain. But as I left the
room, I heard this magnate of Nithesdale distinctly mention the name of Latimer. I lingered;
but at length a direct hint from my father obliged me to withdraw; and when, an hour afterwards,
I was summoned to partake of a cup of tea, our guest had departed. He had business that evening
in the High Street, and could not spare time even to drink tea. I could not help saying, I
considered his departure as a relief from incivility. 'What business has he to upbraid us,'
I said, 'with the change of our dwelling from a more inconvenient to a better quarter of the
town? What was it to him if we chose to imitate some of the conveniences or luxuries of an
English dwelling-house, instead of living piled up above each other in flats? Have his patrician
birth and aristocratic fortunes given him any right to censure those who dispose of the fruits
of their own industry, according to their own pleasure?'

My father took a long pinch of snuff, and replied, 'Very well, Alan; very well indeed. I wish
Mr. Crossbite or Counsellor Pest had heard you; they must have acknowledged that you have a
talent for forensic elocution; and it may not be amiss to try a little declamation at home
now and then, to gather audacity and keep yourself in breath. But touching the subject of this
paraffle of words, it's not worth a pinch of tobacco. D'ye think that I care for Mr. Herries
of Birrenswork more than any other gentleman who comes here about business, although I do not
care to go tilting at his throat, because he speaks like a grey goose, as he is? But to say
no more about him, I want to have Darsie Latimer's present direction; for it is possible I
may have to write the lad a line with my own hand--and yet I do not well know--but give me
the direction at all events.'

I did so, and if you have heard from my father accordingly, you know more, probably, about
the subject of this letter than I who write it. But if you have not, then shall I have discharged
a friend's duty, in letting you know that there certainly is something afloat between this
disagreeable laird and my father, in which you are considerably interested.

Adieu! and although I have given thee a subject for waking dreams, beware of building a castle
too heavy for the foundation; which, in the present instance, is barely the word Latimer occurring
in a conversation betwixt a gentleman of Dumfriesshire and a W.S. of Edinburgh--CAETERA PRORSUS
IGNORO.

LETTER VI

DARSIE LATIMER TO ALAN FAIRFORD

(In continuation of Letters III and IV.)

I told thee I walked out into the open air with my grave and stern landlord. I could now see
more perfectly than on the preceding night the secluded glen in which stood the two or three
cottages which appeared to be the abode of him and his family.

It was so narrow, in proportion to its depth, that no ray of the morning sun was likely to
reach it till it should rise high in the horizon. Looking up the dell, you saw a brawling brook
issuing in foamy haste from a covert of underwood, like a race-horse impatient to arrive at
the goal; and, if you gazed yet; more earnestly, you might observe part of a high waterfall
glimmering through the foliage, and giving occasion, doubtless, to the precipitate speed of
the brook. Lower down, the stream became more placid, and opened into a quiet piece of water
which afforded a rude haven to two or three fishermen's boats, then lying high and dry on the
sand, the tide being out. Two or three miserable huts could be seen beside this little haven,
inhabited probably by the owners of the boats, but inferior in every respect to the establishment
of mine host, though that was miserable enough.

I had but a minute or two to make these observations, yet during that space my companion showed
symptoms of impatience, and more than once shouted, 'Cristal--Cristal Nixon,' until the old
man of the preceding evening appeared at the door of one of the neighbouring cottages or outhouses,
leading the strong black horse which I before commemorated, ready bridled and saddled. My conductor
made Cristal a sign with his finger, and, turning from the cottage door, led the way up the
steep path or ravine which connected the sequestered dell with the open country.

Had I been perfectly aware of the character of the road down which I had been hurried with
so much impetuosity on the preceding evening, I greatly question if I should have ventured
the descent; for it deserved no better name than the channel of a torrent, now in a good measure
filled with water, that dashed in foam and fury into the dell, being swelled with the rains
of the preceding night. I ascended this ugly path with some difficulty although on foot, and
felt dizzy when I observed, from such traces as the rains had not obliterated, that the horse
seemed almost to have slid down it upon his haunches the evening before.

My host threw himself on his horse's back, without placing a foot in the stirrup--passed me
in the perilous ascent, against which he pressed his steed as if the animal had had the footing
of a wild cat. The water and mud splashed from his heels in his reckless course, and a few
bounds placed him on the top of the bank, where I presently joined him, and found the horse
and rider standing still as a statue; the former panting and expanding his broad nostrils to
the morning wind, the latter motionless, with his eye fixed on the first beams of the rising
sun, which already began to peer above the eastern horizon and gild the distant mountains of
Cumberland and Liddesdale.

He seemed in a reverie, from which he started at my approach, and, putting his horse in motion,
led the way at a leisurely pace through a broken and sandy road, which traversed a waste, level,
and uncultivated tract of downs, intermixed with morass, much like that in the neighbourhood
of my quarters at Shepherd's Bush. Indeed, the whole open ground of this district, where it
approaches the sea, has, except in a few favoured spots, the same uniform and dreary character.

Advancing about a hundred yards from the brink of the glen, we gained a still more extensive
command of this desolate prospect, which seemed even more dreary, as contrasted with the opposite
shores of Cumberland, crossed and intersected by ten thousand lines of trees growing in hedgerows,
shaded with groves and woods of considerable extent, animated by hamlets and villas, from which
thin clouds of smoke already gave sign of human life and human industry.

My conductor had extended his arm, and was pointing the road to Shepherd's Bush, when the step
of a horse was heard approaching us. He looked sharply round, and having observed who was approaching,
proceeded in his instructions to me, planting himself at the same time in the very middle of
the path, which, at the place where we halted, had a slough on the one side and a sandbank
on the other.

I observed that the rider who approached us slackened his horse's pace from a slow trot to
a walk, as if desirous to suffer us to proceed, or at least to avoid passing us at a spot where
the difficulty of doing so must have brought us very close to each other. You know my old failing,
Alan, and that I am always willing to attend to anything in preference to the individual who
has for the time possession of the conversation.

Agreeably to this amiable propensity, I was internally speculating concerning the cause of
the rider keeping aloof from us, when my companion, elevating his deep voice so suddenly and
so sternly as at once to recall my wandering thoughts, exclaimed, 'In the name of the devil,
young man, do you think that others have no better use for their time than you have, that you
oblige me to repeat the same thing to you three times over? Do you see, I say, yonder thing
at a mile's distance, that looks like a finger-post, or rather like a gallows? I would it had
a dreaming fool hanging upon it, as an example to all meditative moon-calves!--Yon gibbet-looking
pole will guide you to the bridge, where you must pass the large brook; then proceed straight
forwards, till several roads divide at a cairn. Plague on thee, thou art wandering again!

It is indeed quite true that at this moment the horseman approached us, and my attention was
again called to him as I made way to let him pass. His whole exterior at once showed that he
belonged to the Society of Friends, or, as the world and the world's law calls them, Quakers.
A strong and useful iron-grey galloway showed, by its sleek and good condition, that the merciful
man was merciful to his beast. His accoutrements were in the usual unostentatious but clean
and servicable order which characterizes these sectaries. His long surtout of dark-grey superfine
cloth descended down to the middle of his leg, and was buttoned up to his chin, to defend him
against the morning air. As usual, his ample beaver hung down without button or loop, and shaded
a comely and placid countenance, the gravity of which appeared to contain some seasoning of
humour, and had nothing in common with the pinched puritanical air affected by devotees in
general. The brow was open and free from wrinkles, whether of age or hypocrisy. The eye was
clear, calm, and considerate, yet appeared to be disturbed by apprehension, not to say fear,
as, pronouncing the usual salutation of, 'I wish thee a good morrow, friend,' he indicated,
by turning his palfrey close to one side of the path, a wish to glide past us with as little
trouble as possible--just as a traveller would choose to pass a mastiff of whose peaceable
intentions he is by no means confident.

But my friend, not meaning, perhaps, that he should get off so easily, put his horse quite
across the path, so that, without plunging into the slough, or scrambling up the bank, the
Quaker could not have passed him. Neither of these was an experiment without hazard greater
than the passenger seemed willing to incur. He halted, therefore, as if waiting till my companion
should make way for him; and, as they sat fronting each other, I could not help thinking that
they might have formed no bad emblem of Peace and War; for although my conductor was unarmed,
yet the whole of his manner, his stern look, and his upright seat on horseback, were entirely
those of a soldier in undress, He accosted the Quaker in these words, 'So ho! friend Joshua,
thou art early to the road this morning. Has the spirit moved thee and thy righteous brethren
to act with some honesty, and pull down yonder tide-nets that keep the fish from coming up
the river?'

'Surely, friend, not so,' answered Joshua, firmly, but good-humouredly at the same time; 'thou
canst not expect that our own hands should pull down what our purses established. Thou killest
the fish with spear, line, and coble-net; and we, with snares and with nets, which work by
the ebb and the flow of the tide. Each doth what seems best in his eyes to secure a share of
the blessing which Providence hath bestowed on the river, and that within his own bounds. I
prithee seek no quarrel against us, for thou shalt have no wrong at our hand.'

'Be assured I will take none at the hand of any man, whether his hat be cocked or broad-brimmed,'
answered the fisherman. 'I tell you in fair terms, Joshua Geddes, that you and your partners
are using unlawful craft to destroy the fish in the Solway by stake-nets and wears; and that
we, who fish fairly, and like men, as our fathers did, have daily and yearly less sport and
less profit. Do not think gravity or hypocrisy can carry it off as you have done. The world
knows you, and we know you. You will destroy the salmon which makes the livelihood of fifty
poor families, and then wipe your mouth, and go to make a speech at meeting. But do not hope
it will last thus. I give you fair warning, we will be upon you one morning soon, when we will
not leave a stake standing in the pools of the Solway; and down the tide they shall every one
go, and well if we do not send a lessee along with them.'

'Friend,' replied Joshua, with a constrained smile, 'but that I know thou dost not mean as
thou sayst, I would tell thee we are under the protection of this country's laws; nor do we
the less trust to obtain their protection, that our principles permit us not, by any act of
violent resistance, to protect ourselves.'

'All villainous cant and cowardice,' exclaimed the fisherman, 'and assumed merely as a cloak
to your hypocritical avarice.'

'Nay, say not cowardice, my friend,' answered the Quaker, 'since thou knowest there may be
as much courage in enduring as in acting; and I will be judged by this youth, or by any one
else, whether there is not more cowardice--even in the opinion of that world whose thoughts
are the breath in thy nostrils--in the armed oppressor who doth injury, than in the defenceless
and patient sufferer who endureth it with constancy.'

'I will change no more words with you on the subject,' said the fisherman, who, as if something
moved at the last argument which Mr. Geddes had used, now made room for him to pass forward
on his journey. 'Do not forget, however,' he added, 'that you have had fair warning, nor suppose
that we will accept of fair words in apology for foul play. These nets of yours are unlawful--they
spoil our fishings--we will have them down at all risks and hazards. I am a man of my word,
friend Joshua.'

'I trust thou art,' said the Quaker; 'but thou art the rather bound to be cautious in rashly
affirming what thou wilt never execute. For I tell thee, friend, that though there is as great
a difference between thee and one of our people as there is between a lion and a sheep, yet
I know and believe thou hast so much of the lion in thee, that thou wouldst scarce employ thy
strength and thy rage upon that which professeth no means of resistance. Report says so much
good of thee, at least, if it says little more.'

'Time will try,' answered the fisherman; 'and hark thee, Joshua, before we part I will put
thee in the way of doing one good deed, which, credit me, is better than twenty moral speeches.
Here is a stranger youth, whom Heaven has so scantily gifted with brains, that he will bewilder
himself in the Sands, as he did last night, unless thou wilt kindly show him the way to Shepherd's
Bush; for I have been in vain endeavouring to make him comprehend the road thither. Hast thou
so much charity under thy simplicity, Quaker, as to do this good turn?'

'Nay, it is thou, friend,' answered Joshua, 'that dost lack charity, to suppose any one unwilling
to do so simple a kindness.'

'Thou art right--I should have remembered it can cost thee nothing. Young gentlemen, this pious
pattern of primitive simplicity will teach thee the right way to the Shepherd's Bush--aye,
and will himself shear thee like a sheep, if you come to buying and selling with him.'

He then abruptly asked me, how long I intended to remain at Shepherd's Bush.

I replied, I was at present uncertain--as long probably, as I could amuse myself in the neighbourhood.

'You are fond of sport?' he added, in the same tone of brief inquiry.

I answered in the affirmative, but added, I was totally inexperienced.

'Perhaps if you reside here for some days,' he said, 'we may meet again, and I may have the
chance of giving you a lesson.'

Ere I could express either thanks or assent, he turned short round with a wave of his hand
by way of adieu, and rode back to the verge of the dell from which we had emerged together;
and as he remained standing upon the banks, I could long hear his voice while he shouted down
to those within its recesses.

Meanwhile the Quaker and I proceeded on our journey for some time in silence; he restraining
his sober-minded steed to a pace which might have suited a much less active walker than myself,
and looking on me from time to time with an expression of curiosity, mingled with benignity.
For my part, I cared not to speak first. It happened I had never before been in company with
one of this particular sect, and, afraid that in addressing him I might unwittingly infringe
upon some of their prejudices or peculiarities, I patiently remained silent. At length he asked
me, whether I had been long in the service of the laird, as men called him.

I repeated the words 'in his service?' with such an accent of surprise, as induced him to say,
'Nay, but, friend, I mean no offence; perhaps I should have said in his society--an inmate,
I mean, in his house?'

'I am totally unknown to the person from whom we have just parted,' said I, 'and our connexion
is only temporary. He had the charity to give me his guidance from the Sands, and a night's
harbourage from the tempest. So our acquaintance began, and there it is likely to end; for
you may observe that our friend is by no means apt to encourage familiarity.'

'So little so,' answered my companion, 'that thy case is, I think, the first in which I ever
heard of his receiving any one into his house; that is, if thou hast really spent the night there.'

'Why should you doubt it?' replied I; 'there is no motive I can have to deceive you, nor is
the object worth it.'

'Be not angry with me,' said the Quaker; 'but thou knowest that thine own people do not, as
we humbly endeavour to do, confine themselves within the simplicity of truth, but employ the
language of falsehood, not only for profit, but for compliment, and sometimes for mere diversion.
I have heard various stories of my neighbour; of most of which I only believe a small part,
and even then they are difficult to reconcile with each other. But this being the first time
I ever beard of his receiving a stranger within his dwelling, made me express some doubts.
I pray thee let them not offend thee.'

'He does not,' said I, 'appear to possess in much abundance the means of exercising hospitality,
and so may be excused from offering it in ordinary cases.'

'That is to say, friend,' replied Joshua, 'thou hast supped ill, and perhaps breakfasted worse.
Now my small tenement, called Mount Sharon, is nearer to us by two miles than thine inn; and
although going thither may prolong thy walk, as taking thee of the straighter road to Shepherd's
Bush, yet methinks exercise will suit thy youthful limbs, as well as a good plain meal thy
youthful appetite. What sayst thou, my young acquaintance?'

'If it puts you not to inconvenience,' I replied; for the invitation was cordially given, and
my bread and milk had been hastily swallowed, and in small quantity.

'Nay,' said Joshua, 'use not the language of compliment with those who renounce it. Had this
poor courtesy been very inconvenient, perhaps I had not offered it.'

'I accept the invitation, then,' said I, 'in the same good spirit in which you give it.'

The Quaker smiled, reached me his hand, I shook it, and we travelled on in great cordiality
with each other. The fact is, I was much entertained by contrasting in my own mind, the open
manner of the kind-hearted Joshua Geddes, with the abrupt, dark, and lofty demeanour of my
entertainer on the preceding evening. Both were blunt and unceremonious; but the plainness
of the Quaker had the character of devotional simplicity, and was mingled with the more real
kindness, as if honest Joshua was desirous of atoning, by his sincerity, for the lack of external
courtesy. On the contrary, the manners of the fisherman were those of one to whom the rules
of good behaviour might be familiar, but who, either from pride or misanthropy, scorned to
observe them. Still I thought of him with interest and curiosity, notwithstanding so much about
him that was repulsive; and I promised myself, in the course of my conversation with the Quaker,
to learn all that he knew on the subject. He turned the conversation, however, into a different
channel, and inquired into my own condition of life, and views in visiting this remote frontier.

I only thought it necessary to mention my name, and add, that I had been educated to the law,
but finding myself possessed of some independence, I had of late permitted myself some relaxation,
and was residing at Shepherd's Bush to enjoy the pleasure of angling.

'I do thee no harm, young man,' said my new friend, 'in wishing thee a better employment for
thy grave hours, and a more humane amusement (if amusement thou must have) for those of a lighter
character.'

'You are severe, sir,' I replied. 'I heard you but a moment since refer yourself to the protection
of the laws of the country--if there be laws, there must be lawyers to explain, and judges
to administer them.'

Joshua smiled, and pointed to the sheep which were grazing on the downs over which we were
travelling. 'Were a wolf,' he said, 'to come even now upon yonder flocks, they would crowd
for protection, doubtless, around the shepherd and his dogs; yet they are bitten and harassed
daily by the one, shorn, and finally killed and eaten by the other. But I say not this to shock
you; for, though laws and lawyers are evils, yet they are necessary evils in this probationary
state of society, till man shall learn to render unto his fellows that which is their due,
according to the light of his own conscience, and through no other compulsion. Meanwhile, I
have known many righteous men who have followed thy intended profession in honesty and uprightness
of walk. The greater their merit, who walk erect in a path which so many find slippery.

'And angling,' said I:--'you object to that also as an amusement, you who, if I understood
rightly what passed between you and my late landlord, are yourself a proprietor of fisheries.'

'Not a proprietor,' he replied, 'I am only, in copartnery with others, a tacksman or lessee
of some valuable salmon-fisheries a little down the coast. But mistake me not. The evil of
angling, with which I class all sports, as they are called, which have the sufferings of animals
for their end and object, does not consist in the mere catching and killing those animals with
which the bounty of Providence hath stocked the earth for the good of man, but in making their
protracted agony a principle of delight and enjoyment. I do indeed cause these fisheries to
be conducted for the necessary taking, killing, and selling the fish; and, in the same way,
were I a farmer, I should send my lambs to market. But I should as soon think of contriving
myself a sport and amusement out of the trade of the butcher as out of that of the fisher.'

We argued the point no further; for though I thought his arguments a little too high-strained,
yet as my mind acquitted me of having taken delight in aught but the theory of field-sports,
I did not think myself called upon stubbornly to advocate a practice which had afforded me
so little pleasure.

We had by this time arrived at the remains of an old finger-post, which my host had formerly
pointed out as a landmark. Here, a ruinous wooden bridge, supported by long posts resembling
crutches, served me to get across the water, while my new friend sought a ford a good way higher
up, for the stream was considerably swelled.

As I paused for his rejoining me, I observed an angler at a little distance pouching trout
after trout, as fast almost as he could cast his line; and I own, in spite of Joshua's lecture
on humanity, I could not but envy his adroitness and success, so natural is the love of sport
to our minds, or so easily are we taught to assimilate success in field-sports with ideas of
pleasure, and with the praise due to address and agility. I soon recognized in the successful
angler little Benjie, who had been my guide and tutor in that gentle art, as you have learned
from my former letters. I called--I whistled--the rascal recognized me, and, starting like
a guilty thing, seemed hesitating whether to approach or to run away; and when he determined
on the former, it was to assail me with a loud, clamorous, and exaggerated report of the anxiety
of all at the Shepherd's Bush for my personal safety; how my landlady had wept, how Sam and
the ostler had not the heart to go to bed, but sat up all night drinking--and how he himself
had been up long before daybreak to go in quest of me.

'And you were switching the water, I suppose,' said I, 'to discover my dead body?'

This observation produced a long 'Na--a--a' of acknowledged detection; but, with his natural
impudence, and confidence in my good nature, he immediately added, 'that he thought I would
like a fresh trout or twa for breakfast, and the water being in such a rare trim for the saumon
raun, [The bait made of salmon-roe salted and preserved. In a swollen river, and about the
month of October, it is a most deadly bait.] he couldna help taking a cast.'

While we were engaged in this discussion, the honest Quaker returned to the farther end of
the wooden bridge to tell me he could not venture to cross the brook in its present state:
but would be under the necessity to ride round by the stone bridge, which was a mile and a
half higher up than his own house. He was about to give me directions how to proceed without
him, and inquire for his sister, when I suggested to him that, if he pleased to trust his horse
to little Benjie, the boy might carry him round by the bridge, while we walked the shorter
and more pleasant road.

Joshua shook his head, for he was well acquainted with Benjie, who, he said, was the naughtiest
varlet in the whole neighbourhood. Nevertheless, rather than part company, he agreed to put
the pony under his charge for a short season, with many injunctions that he should not attempt
to mount, but lead the pony (even Solomon) by the bridle, under the assurances of sixpence
in case of proper demeanour, and penalty that if he transgressed the orders given him, 'verily
he would be scourged.'

Promises cost Benjie nothing, and he showered them out wholesale; till the Quaker at length
yielded up the bridle to him, repeating his charges, and enforcing them by holding up his forefinger.
On my part, I called to Benjie to leave the fish he had taken at Mount Sharon, making, at the
same time, an apologetic countenance to my new friend, not being quite aware whether the compliment
would be agreeable to such a condemner of field-sports.

He understood me at once, and reminded me of the practical distinction betwixt catching the
animals as an object of cruel and wanton sport, and eating them as lawful and gratifying articles
of food, after they were killed. On the latter point he had no scruples; but, on the contrary,
assured me that this brook contained the real red trout, so highly esteemed by all connoisseurs,
and that, when eaten within an hour of their being caught, they had a peculiar firmness of
substance and delicacy of flavour, which rendered them an agreeable addition to a morning meal,
especially when earned, like ours, by early rising, and an hour or two's wholesome exercise.

But to thy alarm be it spoken, Alan, we did not come so far as the frying of our fish without
further adventure. So it is only to spare thy patience, and mine own eyes, that I pull up for
the present, and send thee the rest of my story in a subsequent letter.

LETTER VII

THE SAME TO THE SAME (In continuation.)

Little Benjie, with the pony, having been sent off on the left side of the brook, the Quaker
and I sauntered on, like the cavalry and infantry of the same army occupying the opposite banks
of a river, and observing the same line of march. But, while my worthy companion was assuring
me of a pleasant greensward walk to his mansion, little Benjie, who had been charged to keep
in sight, chose to deviate from the path assigned him, and, turning to the right, led his charge,
Solomon, out of our vision.

'The villain means to mount him!' cried Joshua, with more vivacity than was consistent with
his profession of passive endurance.

I endeavoured to appease his apprehensions, as he pushed on, wiping his brow with vexation,
assuring him that, if the boy did mount, he would, for his own sake, ride gently.

'You do not know him,' said Joshua, rejecting all consolation; 'HE do anything gently!--no,
he will gallop Solomon--he will misuse the sober patience of the poor animal who has borne
me so long! Yes, I was given over to my own devices when I ever let him touch the bridle, for
such a little miscreant there never was before him in this country.'

He then proceeded to expatiate on every sort of rustic enormity of which he accused Benjie.
He had been suspected of snaring partridges--was detected by Joshua himself in liming singing-birds--stood
fully charged with having worried several cats, by aid of a lurcher which attended him, and
which was as lean, and ragged, and mischievous, as his master. Finally, Benjie stood accused
of having stolen a duck, to hunt it with the said lurcher, which was as dexterous on water
as on land. I chimed in with my friend, in order to avoid giving him further irritation, and
declared I should be disposed, from my own experience, to give up Benjie as one of Satan's
imps. Joshua Geddes began to censure the phrase as too much exaggerated, and otherwise unbecoming
the mouth of a reflecting person; and, just as I was apologizing for it, as being a term of
common parlance, we heard certain sounds on the opposite side of the brook, which seemed to
indicate that Solomon and Benjie were at issue together. The sandhills behind which Benjie
seemed to take his course, had concealed from us, as doubtless he meant they should, his ascent
into the forbidden saddle, and, putting Solomon to his mettle, which he was seldom called upon
to exert, they had cantered away together in great amity, till they came near to the ford from
which the palfrey's legitimate owner had already turned back.

Here a contest of opinions took place between the horse and his rider. The latter, according
to his instructions, attempted to direct Solomon towards the distant bridge of stone; but Solomon
opined that the ford was the shortest way to his own stable. The point was sharply contested,
and we heard Benjie gee-hupping, tchek-tcheking, and, above all, flogging in great style; while
Solomon, who, docile in his general habits, was now stirred beyond his patience, made a great
trampling and recalcitration; and it was their joint noise which we heard, without being able
to see, though Joshua might too well guess, the cause of it.

Alarmed at these indications, the Quaker began to shout out, 'Benjie--thou varlet! Solomon--thou
fool!' when the couple presented themselves in full drive, Solomon having now decidedly obtained
the better of the conflict, and bringing his unwilling rider in high career down to the ford.
Never was there anger changed so fast into humane fear, as that of my good companion. 'The
varlet will be drowned!' he exclaimed--'a widow's son!--her only son!--and drowned!--let me
go'--And he struggled with me stoutly as I hung upon him, to prevent him from plunging into
the ford.

I had no fear whatever for Benjie; for the blackguard vermin, though he could not manage the
refractory horse, stuck on his seat like a monkey. Solomon and Benjie scrambled through the
ford with little inconvenience, and resumed their gallop on the other side.

It was impossible to guess whether on this last occasion Benjie was running off with Solomon,
or Solomon with Benjie; but, judging from character and motives, I rather suspected the former.
I could not help laughing as the rascal passed me, grinning betwixt terror and delight, perched
on the very pommel of the saddle, and holding with extended arms by bridle and mane while Solomon,
the bit secured between his teeth, and his head bored down betwixt his forelegs, passed his
master in this unwonted guise as hard as he could pelt.

'The mischievous bastard!' exclaimed the Quaker, terrified out of his usual moderation of speech--'the
doomed gallows-bird!--he will break Solomon's wind to a certainty.'

I prayed him to be comforted--assured, him a brushing gallop would do his favourite no harm
and reminded him of the censure he had bestowed on me a minute before, for applying a harsh
epithet to the boy.

But Joshua was not without his answer; 'Friend youth,' he said, 'thou didst speak of the lad's
soul, which thou didst affirm belonged to the enemy, and of that thou couldst say nothing of
thine own knowledge; on the contrary, I did but speak of his outward man, which will assuredly
be suspended by a cord, if he mendeth not his manners. Men say that, young as he is, he is
one of the laird's gang.'

'Of the laird's gang!' said I, repeating the words in surprise. 'Do you mean the person with
whom I slept last night? I heard you call him the laird. Is he at the head of a gang?'

'Nay, I meant not precisely a gang,' said the Quaker, who appeared in his haste to have spoken
more than he intended--a company, or party, I should have said; but thus it is, friend Latimer,
with the wisest men when they permit themselves to be perturbed with passion, and speak as
in a fever, or as with the tongue of the foolish and the forward. And although thou hast been
hasty to mark my infirmity, yet I grieve not that thou hast been a witness to it, seeing that
the stumbles of the wise may be no less a caution to youth and inexperience, than is the fall
of the foolish.'

This was a sort of acknowledgement of what I had already begun to suspect--that my new friend's
real goodness of disposition, joined to the acquired quietism of his religious sect, had been
unable entirely to check the effervescence of a temper naturally warm and hasty.

Upon the present occasion, as if sensible he had displayed a greater degree of emotion than
became his character, Joshua avoided further allusion to Benjie and Solomon, and proceeded
to solicit my attention to the natural objects around us, which increased in beauty and interest,
as, still conducted by the meanders of the brook, we left the common behind us, and entered
a more cultivated and enclosed country, where arable and pasture ground was agreeably varied
with groves and hedges. Descending now almost close to the stream, our course lay through a
little gate, into a pathway kept with great neatness, the sides of which were decorated with
trees and flowering shrubs of the hardier species; until, ascending by a gentle slope, we issued
from the grove, and stood almost at once in front of a low but very neat building, of an irregular
form; and my guide, shaking me cordially by the hand, made me welcome to Mount Sharon.

The wood through which we had approached this little mansion was thrown around it both on the
north and north-west, but, breaking off into different directions, was intersected by a few
fields well watered and sheltered. The house fronted to the south-east, and from thence the
pleasure-ground, or, I should rather say, the gardens, sloped down to the water. I afterwards
understood that the father of the present proprietor had a considerable taste for horticulture,
which had been inherited by his son, and had formed these gardens, which, with their shaven
turf, pleached alleys, wildernesses, and exotic trees and shrubs, greatly excelled anything
of the kind which had been attempted in the neighbourhood.

If there was a little vanity in the complacent smile with which Joshua Geddes saw me gaze with
delight on a scene so different from the naked waste we had that day traversed in company,
it might surely be permitted to one who, cultivating and improving the beauties of nature,
had found therein, as he said, bodily health, and a pleasing relaxation for the mind. At the
bottom of the extended gardens the brook wheeled round in a wide semicircle, and was itself
their boundary. The opposite side was no part of Joshua's domain, but the brook was there skirted
by a precipitous rock of limestone, which seemed a barrier of nature's own erecting around
his little Eden of beauty, comfort, and peace.

'But I must not let thee forget,' said the kind Quaker, 'amidst thy admiration of these beauties
of our little inheritance, that thy breakfast has been a light one.'

So saying, Joshua conducted me to a small sashed door, opening under a porch amply mantled
by honeysuckle and clematis, into a parlour of moderate size; the furniture of which, in plainness
and excessive cleanliness, bore the characteristic marks of the sect to which the owner belonged.

Thy father's Hannah is generally allowed to be an exception to all Scottish housekeepers, and
stands unparalleled for cleanliness among the women of Auld Reekie; but the cleanliness of
Hannah is sluttishness compared to the scrupulous purifications of these people, who seem to
carry into the minor decencies of life that conscientious rigour which they affect in their morals.

The parlour would have been gloomy, for the windows were small and the ceiling low; but the
present proprietor had rendered it more cheerful by opening one end into a small conservatory,
roofed with glass, and divided from the parlour by a partition of the same. I have never before
seen this very pleasing manner of uniting the comforts of an apartment with the beauties of
a garden, and I wonder it is not more practised by the great. Something of the kind is hinted
at in a paper of the SPECTATOR.

As I walked towards the conservatory to view it more closely, the parlour chimney engaged my
attention. It was a pile of massive stone, entirely out of proportion to the size of the apartment.
On the front had once been an armorial scutcheon; for the hammer, or chisel, which had been
employed to deface the shield or crest, had left uninjured the scroll beneath, which bore the
pious motto, 'TRUST IN GOD.' Black-letter, you know, was my early passion, and the tombstones
in the Greyfriars' churchyard early yielded up to my knowledge as a decipherer what little
they could tell of the forgotten dead.

Joshua Geddes paused when he saw my eye fixed on this relic of antiquity. 'Thou canst read
it?' he said.

I repeated the motto, and added, there seemed vestiges of a date.

'It should be 1537,' said he; 'for so long ago, at the least computation, did my ancestors,
in the blinded times of Papistry, possess these lands, and in that year did they build their
house.'

'It is an ancient descent,' said I, looking with respect upon the monument. 'I am sorry the
arms have been defaced.'

It was perhaps impossible for my friend, Quaker as he was, to seem altogether void of respect
for the pedigree which he began to recount to me, disclaiming all the while the vanity usually
connected with the subject; in short, with the air of mingled melancholy, regret, and conscious
dignity, with which Jack Fawkes used to tell us at college of his ancestor's unfortunate connexion
with the Gunpowder Plot.

'Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher,' thus harangued Joshua Gleddes of Mount Sharon; 'if
we ourselves are nothing in the sight of Heaven, how much less than nothing must be our derivation
from rotten bones and mouldering dust, whose immortal spirits have long since gone to their
private account? Yes, friend Latimer, my ancestors were renowned among the ravenous and bloodthirsty
men who then dwelt in this vexed country; and so much were they famed for successful freebooting,
robbery, and bloodshed, that they are said to have been called Geddes, as likening them to
the fish called a Jack, Pike, or Luce, and in our country tongue, a GED--a goodly distinction
truly for Christian men! Yet did they paint this shark of the fresh waters upon their shields,
and these profane priests of a wicked idolatry, the empty boasters called heralds, who make
engraven images of fishes, fowls, and four-footed beasts, that men may fall down and worship
them, assigned the ged for the device and escutcheon of my fathers, and hewed it over their
chimneys, and placed it above their tombs; and the men were elated in mind, and became yet
more ged-like, slaying, leading into captivity, and dividing the spoil, until the place where
they dwelt obtained the name of Sharing-Knowe, from the booty which was there divided amongst
them and their accomplices. But a better judgement was given to my father's father, Philip
Geddes, who, after trying to light his candle at some of the vain wildfires then held aloft
at different meetings and steeple-houses, at length obtained a spark from the lamp of the blessed
George Fox, who came into Scotland spreading light among darkness, as he himself hath written,
as plentifully as fly the sparkles from the hoof of the horse which gallops swiftly along the
stony road.'--Here the good Quaker interrupted himself with, 'And that is very true, I must
go speedily to see after the condition of Solomon.'

A Quaker servant here entered the room with a tray, and inclining his head towards his master,
but not after the manner of one who bows, said composedly, 'Thou art welcome home, friend Joshua,
we expected thee not so early; but what hath befallen Solomon thy horse?'

'What hath befallen him, indeed?' said my friend; 'hath he not been returned hither by the
child whom they call Benjie?'

'He hath,' said his domestic, 'but it was after a strange fashion; for he came hither at a
swift and furious pace, and flung the child Benjie from his back, upon the heap of dung which
is in the stable-yard.'

'I am glad of it,' said Joshua, hastily,--'glad of it, with all my heart and spirit! But stay,
he is the child of the widow--hath the boy any hurt?'

'Not so' answered the servant, 'for he rose and fled swiftly.'

Joshua muttered something about a scourge, and then inquired after Solomon's present condition.

'He seetheth like a steaming cauldron,' answered the servant; 'and Bauldie, the lad, walketh
him about the yard with a halter, lest he take cold.'

Mr. Geddes hastened to the stable-yard to view personally the condition of his favourite, and
I followed to offer my counsel as a jockey. Don't laugh, Alan, sure I have jockeyship enough
to assist a Quaker--in this unpleasing predicament.

The lad who was leading the horse seemed to be no Quaker, though his intercourse with the family
had given him a touch of their prim sobriety of look and manner. He assured Joshua that his
horse had received no injury, and I even hinted that the exercise would be of service to him.
Solomon himself neighed towards his master, and rubbed his head against the good Quaker's shoulder,
as if to assure him of his being quite well; so that Joshua returned in comfort to his parlour,
where breakfast was now about to be displayed.

I have since learned that the affection of Joshua for his pony is considered as inordinate
by some of his own sect; and that he has been much blamed for permitting it to be called by
the name of Solomon, or any other name whatever; but he has gained so much respect and influence
among them that they overlook these foibles.

I learned from him (whilst the old servant, Jehoiachim, entering and re-entering, seemed to
make no end of the materials which he brought in for breakfast) that his grandfather Philip,
the convert of George Fox, had suffered much from the persecution to which these harmless devotees
were subjected on all sides during that intolerant period, and much of their family estate
had been dilapidated. But better days dawned on Joshua's father, who, connecting himself by
marriage with a wealthy family of Quakers in Lancashire, engaged successfully in various branches
of commerce, and redeemed the remnants of the property, changing its name in sense, without
much alteration of sound, from the Border appellation of Sharing-Knowe, to the evangelical
appellation of Mount Sharon.

This Philip Geddes, as I before hinted, had imbibed the taste for horticulture and the pursuits
of the florist, which are not uncommon among the peaceful sect he belonged to. He had destroyed
the remnants of the old peel-house, substituting the modern mansion in its place; and while
he reserved the hearth of his ancestors, in memory of their hospitality, as also the pious
motto which they had chanced to assume, he failed not to obliterate the worldly and military
emblems displayed upon the shield and helmet, together with all their blazonry.

In a few minutes after Mr. Geddes had concluded the account; of himself and his family, his
sister Rachel, the only surviving member of it, entered the room. Her appearance is remarkably
pleasing, and although her age is certainly thirty at least, she still retains the shape and
motion of an earlier period. The absence of everything like fashion or ornament was, as usual,
atoned for by the most perfect neatness and cleanliness of her dress; and her simple close
cap was particularly suited to eyes which had the softness and simplicity of the dove's. Her
features were also extremely agreeable, but had suffered a little through the ravages of that
professed enemy to beauty, the small-pox; a disadvantage which was in part counterbalanced
by a well-formed mouth, teeth like pearls, and a pleasing sobriety of smile, that seemed to
wish good here and hereafter to every one she spoke to. You cannot make any of your vile inferences
here, Alan, for I have given a full-length picture of Rachel Geddes; so that; you cannot say,
in this case, as in the letter I have just received, that she was passed over as a subject
on which I feared to dilate. More of this anon.

Well, we settled to our breakfast after a blessing, or rather an extempore prayer, which Joshua
made upon the occasion, and which the spirit moved him to prolong rather more than I felt altogether
agreeable. Then, Alan, there was such a dispatching of the good things of the morning as you
have not witnessed since you have seen Darsie Latimer at breakfast. Tea and chocolate, eggs,
ham, and pastry, not forgetting the broiled fish, disappeared with a celerity which seemed
to astonish the good-humoured Quakers, who kept loading my plate with supplies, as if desirous
of seeing whether they could, by any possibility, tire me out. One hint, however, I received,
which put me in mind where I was. Miss Geddes had offered me some sweet-cake, which, at the
moment, I declined; but presently afterwards, seeing it within my reach, I naturally enough
helped myself to a slice, and had just; deposited it beside my plate, when Joshua, mine host,
not with the authoritative air of Sancho's doctor, Tirteafuera, but in a very calm and quiet
manner, lifted it away and replaced it on the dish, observing only, 'Thou didst refuse it before,
friend Latimer.'

These good folks, Alan, make no allowance for what your good father calls the Aberdeen-man's
privilege, of 'taking his word again;' or what the wise call second thoughts.

Bating this slight hint that I was among a precise generation, there was nothing in my reception
that was peculiar--unless, indeed, I were to notice the solicitous and uniform kindness with
which all the attentions of my new friends were seasoned, as if they were anxious to assure
me that the neglect of worldly compliments interdicted by their sect, only served to render
their hospitality more sincere. At length my hunger was satisfied, and the worthy Quaker, who,
with looks of great good nature, had watched my progress, thus addressed his sister:--

'This young man, Rachel, hath last night sojourned in the tents of our neighbour whom men call
the laird. I am sorry I had not met him the evening before, for our neighbour's hospitality
is too unfrequently exercised to be well prepared with the means of welcome.'

'Nay, but, Joshua,' said Rachel, 'if our neighbour hath done a kindness, thou shouldst not
grudge him the opportunity; and if our young friend hath fared ill for a night, he will the
better relish what Providence may send him of better provisions.'

'And that he may do so at leisure,' said Joshua, 'we will pray him, Rachel, to tarry a day
or twain with us: he is young, and is but now entering upon the world, and our habitation may,
if he will, be like a resting-place, from which he may look abroad upon the pilgrimage which
he must take, and the path which he has to travel.--What sayest thou, friend Latimer? We constrain
not our friends to our ways, and thou art, I think, too wise to quarrel with us for following
our own fashions; and if we should even give thee a word of advice, thou wilt not, I think,
be angry, so that it is spoken in season.'

You know, Alan, how easily I am determined by anything resembling cordiality--and so, though
a little afraid of the formality of my host and hostess, I accepted their invitation, provided
I could get some messenger to send to Shepherd's Bush for my servant and portmanteau.

'Why, truly, friend,' said Joshua, 'thy outward frame would be improved by cleaner garments;
but I will do thine errand myself to the Widow Gregson's house of reception, and send thy lad
hither with thy clothes. Meanwhile, Rachel will show thee these little gardens, and then will
put thee in some way of spending thy time usefully, till our meal calls us together at the
second hour after noon. I bid thee farewell for the present, having some space to walk, seeing
I must leave the animal Solomon to his refreshing rest.'

With these words, Mr. Joshua Geddes withdrew. Some ladies we have known would have felt, or
at least affected, reserve or embarrassment, at being left to do the honours of the grounds
to (it will be out, Alan)--a smart young fellow--an entire stranger. She went out for a few
minutes, and returned in her plain cloak and bonnet, with her beaver gloves, prepared to act
as my guide, with as much simplicity as if she had been to wait upon thy father. So forth I
sallied with my fair Quakeress.

If the house at Mount Sharon be merely a plain and convenient dwelling, of moderate size and
small pretensions, the gardens and offices, though not extensive, might rival an earl's in
point of care and expense. Rachel carried me first to her own favourite resort, a poultry-yard,
stocked with a variety of domestic fowls, of the more rare as well as the most ordinary kinds,
furnished with every accommodation which may suit their various habits. A rivulet which spread
into a pond for the convenience of the aquatic birds, trickled over gravel as it passed through
the yards dedicated to the land poultry, which were thus amply supplied with the means they
use for digestion.

All these creatures seemed to recognize the presence of their mistress, and some especial favourites
hastened to her feet, and continued to follow her as far as their limits permitted. She pointed
out their peculiarities and qualities, with the discrimination of one who had made natural
history her study; and I own I never looked on barn-door fowls with so much interest before--at
least until they were boiled or roasted. I could not help asking the trying question, how she
could order the execution of any of the creatures of which she seemed so careful.

'It was painful,' she said, 'but it was according to the law of their being. They must die;
but they knew not when death was approaching; and in making them comfortable while they lived,
we contributed to their happiness as much as the conditions of their existence permitted to us.'

I am not quite of her mind, Alan. I do not believe either pigs or poultry would admit that
the chief end of their being was to be killed and eaten. However, I did not press the argument,
from which my Quaker seemed rather desirous to escape; for, conducting me to the greenhouse,
which was extensive, and filled with the choicest plants, she pointed out an aviary which occupied
the farther end, where, she said, she employed herself with attending the inhabitants, without
being disturbed with any painful recollections concerning their future destination.

I will not trouble you with any account of the various hot-houses and gardens, and their contents.
No small sum of money must have been expended in erecting and maintaining them in the exquisite
degree of good order which they exhibited. The family, I understood, were connected with that
of the celebrated Millar, and had imbibed his taste for flowers, and for horticulture. But
instead of murdering botanical names, I will rather conduct you to the POLICY, or pleasure-garden,
which the taste of Joshua or his father had extended on the banks betwixt the house and river.
This also, in contradistinction to the prevailing simplicity, was ornamented in an unusual
degree. There were various compartments, the connexion of which was well managed, and although
the whole ground did not exceed five or six acres, it was so much varied as to seem four times
larger. The space contained close alleys and open walks; a very pretty artificial waterfall;
a fountain also, consisting of a considerable jet-d'eau, whose streams glittered in the sunbeams
and exhibited a continual rainbow. There was a cabinet of verdure, as the French call it, to
cool the summer heat, and there was a terrace sheltered from the north-east by a noble holly
hedge, with all its glittering spears where you might have the full advantage of the sun in
the clear frosty days of winter.

I know that you, Alan, will condemn all this as bad and antiquated; for, ever since Dodsley
has described the Leasowes, and talked of Brown's imitations of nature and Horace Walpole's
late Essay on Gardening, you are all for simple nature--condemn walking up and down stairs
in the open air and declare for wood and wilderness. But NE QUID NIMIS. I would not deface
a scene of natural grandeur or beauty, by the introduction of crowded artificial decorations;
yet such may, I think, be very interesting, where the situation, in its natural state, otherwise
has no particular charms.

So that when I have a country-house (who can say how soon?) you may look for grottoes, and
cascades, and fountains; nay if you vex me by contradiction, perhaps I may go the length of
a temple--so provoke me not, for you see of what enormities I am capable.

At any rate, Alan, had you condemned as artificial the rest of Friend Geddes's grounds, there
is a willow walk by the very verge of the stream, so sad, so solemn, and so silent, that it
must have commanded your admiration. The brook, restrained at the ultimate boundary of the
grounds by a natural dam-dike or ledge of rocks, seemed, even in its present swollen state,
scarcely to glide along: and the pale willow-trees, dropping their long branches into the stream,
gathered around them little coronals of the foam that floated down from the more rapid stream
above. The high rock, which formed the opposite bank of the brook, was seen dimly through the
branches, and its pale and splintered front, garlanded with long streamers of briers and other
creeping plants, seemed a barrier between the quiet path which we trod, and the toiling and
bustling world beyond. The path itself, following the sweep of the stream, made a very gentle
curve; enough, however, served by its inflection completely to hide the end of the walk until
you arrived at it. A deep and sullen sound, which increased as you proceeded, prepared you
for this termination, which was indeed only a plain root-seat, from which you looked on a fall
of about six or seven feet, where the brook flung itself over the ledge of natural rock I have
already mentioned, which there crossed its course.

The quiet and twilight seclusion of this walk rendered it a fit scene for confidential communing;
and having nothing more interesting to say to my fair Quaker, I took the liberty of questioning
her about the laird; for you are, or ought to be, aware, that next to discussing the affairs
of the heart, the fair sex are most interested in those of their neighbours.

I did not conceal either my curiosity, or the check which it had received from Joshua, and
I saw that my companion answered with embarrassment. 'I must not speak otherwise than truly,'
she said; 'and therefore I tell thee, that my brother dislikes, and that I fear, the man of
whom thou hast asked me. Perhaps we are both wrong--but he is a man of violence, and hath great
influence over many, who, following the trade of sailors and fishermen, become as rude as the
elements with which they contend. He hath no certain name among them, which is not unusual,
their rude fashion being to distinguish each other by nicknames; and they have called him the
Laird of the Lakes (not remembering there should be no one called Lord, save one only) in idle
derision; the pools of salt water left by the tide among the sands being called the Lakes of
Solway.'

'Has he no other revenue than he derives from these sands?' I asked.

'That I cannot answer,' replied Rachel; 'men say that he wants not money, though he lives like
an ordinary fisherman, and that he imparts freely of his means to the poor around him. They
intimate that he is a man of consequence, once deeply engaged in the unhappy affair of the
rebellion, and even still too much in danger from the government to assume his own name. He
is often absent from his cottage at Broken-burn-cliffs, for weeks and months.'

'I should have thought,' said I, 'that the government would scarce, at this time of day, be
likely to proceed against any one even of the most obnoxious rebels. Many years have passed away'--

'It is true,' she replied; 'yet such persons may understand that their being connived at depends
on their living in obscurity. But indeed there can nothing certain be known among these rude
people. The truth is not in them--most of them participate in the unlawful trade betwixt these
parts and the neighbouring shore of England; and they are familiar with every species of falsehood
and deceit.'

'It is a pity,' I remarked, 'your brother should have neighbours of such a description, especially
as I understand he is at some variance with them.'

'Where, when, and about what matter?' answered Miss Geddes, with an eager and timorous anxiety,
which made me regret having touched on the subject.

I told her, in a way as little alarming as I could devise, the purport of what passed betwixt
this Laird of the Lakes and her brother, at their morning's interview.

'You affright me much,' answered she; 'it is this very circumstance which has scared me in
the watches of the night. When my brother Joshua withdrew from an active share in the commercial
concerns of my father, being satisfied with the portion of worldly substance which he already
possessed, there were one or two undertakings in which he retained an interest, either because
his withdrawing might have been prejudicial to friends, or because he wished to retain some
mode of occupying his time. Amongst the more important of these is a fishing station on the
coast, where, by certain improved modes of erecting snares, opening at the advance of the tide,
and shutting at the reflux, many more fish are taken than can be destroyed by those who, like
the men of Broken-burn, use only the boat-net and spear, or fishing-rod. They complain of these
tide-nets, as men call them, as an innovation, and pretend to a right to remove and destroy
them by the strong hand. I fear me, this man of violence, whom they call the laird, will execute
these his threats, which cannot be without both loss and danger to my brother.'

'Mr. Geddes,' said I, 'ought to apply to the civil, magistrate; there are soldiers at Dumfries
who would be detached for his protection.'

'Thou speakest, friend Latimer,' answered the lady, 'as one who is still in the gall of bitterness
and bond of iniquity. God forbid that we should endeavour to preserve nets of flax and stakes
of wood, or the Mammon of gain which they procure for us, by the hands of men of war and at
the risk of spilling human blood.'

'I respect your scruples,' I replied; 'but since such is your way of thinking, your brother
ought to avert the danger by compromise or submission.'

'Perhaps it would be best,' answered Rachel; 'but what can I say? Even in the best-trained
temper there may remain some leaven of the old Adam; and I know not whether it is this or a
better spirit that maketh my brother Joshua determine, that though he will not resist force
by force, neither will he yield up his right to mere threats, or encourage wrong to others
by yielding to menaces. His partners, he says, confide in his steadiness: and that he must
not disappoint them by yielding up their right for the fear of the threats of man, whose breath
is in his nostrils.'

This observation convinced me that the spirit of the old sharers of the spoil was not utterly
departed even from the bosom of the peaceful Quaker; and I could not help confessing internally
that Joshua had the right, when he averred that there was as much courage in sufferance as
in exertion.

As we approached the farther end of the willow walk, the sullen and continuous sound of the
dashing waters became still more and more audible, and at length rendered it difficult for
us to communicate with each other. The conversation dropped, but apparently my companion continued
to dwell upon the apprehensions which it had excited. At the bottom of the walk we obtained
a view of the cascade, where the swollen brook flung itself in foam and tumult over the natural
barrier of rock, which seemed in vain to attempt to bar its course. I gazed with delight, and,
turning to express my sentiment to my companion, I observed that she had folded her hands in
an attitude of sorrowful resignation, which showed her thoughts were far from the scene which
lay before her. When she saw that her abstraction was observed, she resumed her former placidity
of manner; and having given me sufficient time to admire this termination of our sober and
secluded walk, proposed that me should return to the house through her brother's farm. 'Even
we Quakers, as we are called, have our little pride,' she said; 'and my brother Joshua would
not forgive me, were I not to show thee the fields which he taketh delight to cultivate after
the newest and best fashion; for which, I promise thee, he hath received much praise from good
judges, as well as some ridicule from those who think it folly to improve on the customs of
our ancestors.'

As she spoke, she opened a low door, leading through a moss and ivy-covered wall, the boundary
of the pleasure-ground, into the open fields; through which we moved by a convenient path,
leading, with good taste and simplicity, by stile and hedgerow, through pasturage, and arable,
and woodland; so that in all ordinary weather, the good man might, without even soiling his
shoes, perform his perambulation round the farm. There were seats also, on which to rest; and
though not adorned with inscriptions, nor quite so frequent in occurrence as those mentioned
in the account of the Leasowes, their situation was always chosen with respect to some distant
prospect to be commanded, or some home-view to be enjoyed.

But what struck me most in Joshua's domain was the quantity and the tameness of the game. The
hen partridge scarce abandoned the roost, at the foot of the hedge where she had assembled
her covey, though the path went close beside her; and the hare, remaining on her form, gazed
at us as we passed, with her full dark eye, or rising lazily and hopping to a little distance,
stood erect to look at us with more curiosity than apprehension. I observed to Miss Geddes
the extreme tameness of these timid and shy animals, and she informed me that their confidence
arose from protection in the summer, and relief during the winter.

'They are pets,' she said, 'of my brother, who considers them as the better entitled to his
kindness that they are a race persecuted by the world in general. He denieth himself,' she
said, 'even the company of a dog, that these creatures may here at least enjoy undisturbed
security. Yet this harmless or humane propensity, or humour, hath given offence,' she added,
'to our dangerous neighbours.'

She explained this, by telling me that my host of the preceding night was remarkable for his
attachment to field-sports, which he pursued without much regard to the wishes of the individuals
over whose property he followed them. The undefined mixture of respect and fear with which
he was generally regarded induced most of the neighbouring land-holders to connive at what
they would perhaps in another have punished as a trespass; but Joshua Geddes would not permit
the intrusion of any one upon his premises, and as he had before offended several country neighbours,
who, because he would neither shoot himself nor permit others to do so, compared him to the
dog in the manger, so he now aggravated the displeasure which the Laird of the Lakes had already
conceived against him, by positively debarring him from pursuing his sport over his grounds--'So
that,' said Rachel Geddes, 'I sometimes wish our lot had been cast elsewhere than in these
pleasant borders, where, if we had less of beauty around us, we might have had a neighbourhood
of peace and, goodwill.'

We at length returned to the house, where Miss Geddes showed me a small study, containing a
little collection of books, in two separate presses.

'These,' said she, pointing to the smaller press, 'will, if thou bestowest thy leisure upon
them, do thee good; and these,' pointing to the other and larger cabinet, 'can, I believe,
do thee little harm. Some of our people do indeed hold, that every writer who is not with us
is against us; but brother Joshua is mitigated in his opinions, and correspondeth with our
friend John Scot of Amwell, who hath himself constructed verses well approved of even in the
world. I wish thee many good thoughts till our family meet at the hour of dinner.'

Left alone, I tried both collections; the first consisted entirely of religious and controversial
tracts, and the latter formed a small selection of history and of moral writers, both in prose
and verse.

Neither collection promising much amusement, thou hast, in these close pages, the fruits of
my tediousness; and truly, I think, writing history (one's self being the subject) is as amusing
as reading that of foreign countries, at any time.

Sam, still more drunk than sober, arrived in due time with my portmanteau, and enabled me to
put my dress into order, better befitting this temple of cleanliness and decorum, where (to
conclude) I believe I shall be a sojourner more days than one. [See Note 1.]

PS.--I have noted your adventure, as you home-bred youths may perhaps term it, concerning the
visit of your doughty laird. We travellers hold such an incident no great consequence, though
it may serve to embellish the uniform life of Brown's Square. But art thou not ashamed to attempt
to interest one who is seeing the world at large, and studying human nature on a large scale,
by so bald a narrative? Why, what does it amount to, after all, but that a Tory laird dined
with a Whig lawyer? no very uncommon matter, especially as you state Mr. Herries to have lost
the estate, though retaining the designation. The laird behaves with haughtiness and impertinence--nothing
out of character in that: is NOT kicked down stairs, as he ought to have been, were Alan Fairford
half the man that he would wish his friends to think him. Aye, but then, as the young lawyer,
instead of showing his friend the door, chose to make use of it himself, he overheard the laird
aforesaid ask the old lawyer concerning Darsie Latimer--no doubt earnestly inquiring after
the handsome, accomplished inmate of his family, who has so lately made Themis his bow and
declined the honour of following her farther. You laugh at me for my air-drawn castles; but
confess, have they not surer footing, in general, than two words spoken by such a man as Herries?
And yet--and yet--I would rally the matter off, Alan; but in dark nights even the glow-worm
becomes an object of lustre, and to one plunged in my uncertainty and ignorance, the slightest
gleam that promises intelligence is interesting. My life is like the subterranean river in
the Peak of Derby, visible only where it crosses the celebrated cavern. I am here, and this
much I know; but where I have sprung from, or whither my course of life is like to tend, who
shall tell me? Your father, too, seemed interested and alarmed, and talked of writing; would
to Heaven he may!--I send daily to the post-town for letters.

LETTER VIII

ALAN FAIRFORD TO DARSIE LATIMER

Thou mayst clap thy wings and crow as thou pleasest. You go in search of adventures, but adventures
come to me unsought for; and oh! in what a pleasing shape came mine, since it arrived in the
form of a client--and a fair client to boot! What think you of that, Darsie! you who are such
a sworn squire of dames? Will this not match my adventures with thine, that hunt salmon on
horseback, and will it not, besides, eclipse the history of a whole tribe of Broadbrims?--But
I must proceed methodically.

When I returned to-day from the College, I was surprised to see a broad grin distending the
adust countenance of the faithful James Wilkinson, which, as the circumstance seldom happens
above once a year, was matter of some surprise. Moreover, he had a knowing glance with his
eye, which I should have as soon expected from a dumb-waiter--an article of furniture to which
James, in his usual state, may be happily assimilated. 'What the devil is the matter, James?'

'The devil may be in the matter, for aught I ken,' said James, with another provoking grin;
'for here has been a woman calling for you, Maister Alan.'

'A woman calling for me?' said I in surprise; for you know well, that excepting old Aunt Peggy,
who comes to dinner of a Sunday, and the still older Lady Bedrooket, who calls ten times a
year for the quarterly payment of her jointure of four hundred merks, a female scarce approaches
our threshold, as my father visits all his female clients at their own lodgings. James protested,
however, that there had been a lady calling, and for me. 'As bonny a lass as I have seen,'
added James, 'since I was in the Fusileers, and kept company with Peg Baxter.' Thou knowest
all James's gay recollections go back to the period of his military service, the years he has
spent in ours having probably been dull enough.

'Did the lady leave no name nor place of address?'

'No,' replied James; 'but she asked when you wad be at hame, and I appointed her for twelve
o'clock, when the house wad be quiet, and your father at the Bank.'

'For shame, James! how can you think my father's being at home or abroad could be of consequence?--The
lady is of course a decent person?'

'I'se uphaud her that, sir--she is nane of your--WHEW'--(Here James supplied a blank with a
low whistle)--'but I didna ken--my maister makes an unco wark if a woman comes here.'

I passed into my own room, not ill-pleased that my father was absent, notwithstanding I had
thought it proper to rebuke James for having so contrived it, I disarranged my books, to give
them the appearance of a graceful confusion on the table, and laying my foils (useless since
your departure) across the mantelpiece, that the lady might see I was TAM MARTE QUAM MERCURIO--I
endeavoured to dispose my dress so as to resemble an elegant morning deshabille--gave my hair
the general shade of powder which marks the gentleman--laid my watch and seals on the table,
to hint that I understood the value of time;--and when I had made all these arrangements, of
which I am a little ashamed when I think of them, I had nothing better to do than to watch
the dial-plate till the index pointed to noon. Five minutes elapsed, which. I allowed for variation
of clocks--five minutes more rendered me anxious and doubtful--and five minutes more would
have made me impatient.

Laugh as thou wilt; but remember, Darsie, I was a lawyer, expecting his first client--a young
man, how strictly bred up I need not remind you, expecting a private interview with a young
and beautiful woman. But ere the third term of five minutes had elapsed, the door-bell was
heard to tinkle low and modestly, as if touched by some timid hand.

James Wilkinson, swift in nothing, is, as thou knowest, peculiarly slow in answering the door-bell;
and I reckoned on five minutes good, ere his solemn step should have ascended the stair. Time
enough, thought I, for a peep through the blinds, and was hastening to the window accordingly.
But I reckoned without my host; for James, who had his own curiosity as well as I, was lying
PERDU in the lobby, ready to open at the first tinkle; and there was, 'This way, ma'am--Yes,
ma'am--The lady, Mr. Alan,' before I could get to the chair in which I proposed to be discovered,
seated in all legal dignity. The consciousness of being half-caught in the act of peeping,
joined to that native air of awkward bashfulness of which I am told the law will soon free
me, kept me standing on the floor in some confusion; while the lady, disconcerted on her part,
remained on the threshold of the room. James Wilkinson, who had his senses most about him,
and was perhaps willing to prolong his stay in the apartment, busied himself in setting a chair
for the lady, and recalled me to my good-breeding by the hint. I invited her to take possession
of it, and bid James withdraw.

My visitor was undeniably a lady, and probably considerably above the ordinary rank--very modest,
too, judging from the mixture of grace and timidity with which she moved, and at my entreaty
sat down. Her dress was, I should suppose, both handsome and fashionable; but it was much concealed
by a walking-cloak of green silk, fancifully embroidered; in which, though heavy for the season,
her person was enveloped, and which, moreover, was furnished with a hood.

The devil take that hood, Darsie! for I was just able to distinguish that, pulled as it was
over the face, it concealed from me, as I was convinced, one of the prettiest countenances
I have seen, and which, from a sense of embarrassment, seemed to be crimsoned with a deep blush.
I could see her complexion was beautiful--her chin finely turned--her lips coral--and her teeth
rivals to ivory. But further the deponent sayeth not; for a clasp of gold, ornamented with
it sapphire, closed the envious mantle under the incognita's throat, and the cursed hood concealed
entirely the upper part of the face.

I ought to have spoken first, that is certain; but ere I could get my phrases well arranged,
the young lady, rendered desperate I suppose by my hesitation opened the conversation herself.

'I fear I am an intruder, sir--I expected to meet an elderly gentleman.'

This brought me to myself. 'My father, madam, perhaps. But you inquired for Alan Fairford--my
father's name is Alexander.'

'It is Mr. Alan Fairford, undoubtedly, with whom I wished to speak,' she said, with greater
confusion; 'but I was told that he was advanced in life.'

'Some mistake, madam, I presume, betwixt my father and myself--our Christian names have the
same initials, though the terminations are different. I--I--I would esteem it a most fortunate
mistake if I could have the honour of supplying my father's place in anything that could be
of service to you.'

'You are very obliging, sir,' A pause, during which she seemed undetermined whether to rise
or sit still.

'I am just about to be called to the bar, madam,' said I, in hopes to remove her scruples to
open her case to me; 'and if my advice or opinion could be of the slightest use, although I
cannot presume to say that they are much to be depended upon, yet'--

The lady arose. 'I am truly sensible of your kindness, sir; and I have no doubt of your talents.
I will be very plain with you--it is you whom I came to visit; although, now that we have met,
I find it will be much better that I should commit my communication to writing.'

'I hope, madam, you will not be so cruel--so tantalizing, I would say. Consider, you are my
first client--your business my first consultation--do not do me the displeasure of withdrawing
your confidence because I am a few years younger than you seem to have expected. My attention
shall make amends for my want of experience.'

'I have no doubt of either,' said the lady, in a grave tone, calculated to restrain the air
of gallantry with which I had endeavoured to address her. 'But when you have received my letter
you will find good reasons assigned why a written communication will best suit my purpose.
I wish you, sir, a good morning.' And she left the apartment, her poor baffled counsel scraping,
and bowing, and apologizing for anything that might have been disagreeable to her, although
the front of my offence seems to be my having been discovered to be younger than my father.

The door was opened--out she went--walked along the pavement, turned down the close, and put
the sun, I believe, into her pocket when she disappeared, so suddenly did dullness and darkness
sink down on the square, when she was no longer visible. I stood for a moment as if I had been
senseless, not recollecting what a fund of entertainment I must have supplied to our watchful
friends on the other side of the green. Then it darted on my mind that I might dog her, and
ascertain at least who or what she was. Off I set--ran down the close, where she was no longer
to be seen, and demanded of one of the dyer's lads whether he had seen a lady go down the close,
or had observed which way she turned.

'A leddy!'--said the dyer, staring at me with his rainbow countenance. 'Mr. Alan, what takes
you out, rinning like daft, without your hat?'

'The devil take my hat!' answered I, running back, however, in quest of it; snatched it up,
and again sallied forth. But as I reached the head of the close once more, I had sense enough
to recollect that all pursuit would be now in vain. Besides, I saw my friend, the journeyman
dyer, in close confabulation with a pea-green personage of his own profession, and was conscious,
like Scrub, that they talked of me, because they laughed consumedly. I had no mind, by a second
sudden appearance, to confirm the report that Advocate Fairford was 'gaen daft,' which had
probably spread from Campbell's Close-foot to the Meal-market Stairs; and so slunk back within
my own hole again.

My first employment was to remove all traces of that elegant and fanciful disposition of my
effects, from which I had hoped for so much credit; for I was now ashamed and angry at having
thought an instant upon the mode of receiving a visit which had commenced so agreeably, but
terminated in a manner so unsatisfactory. I put my folios in their places--threw the foils
into the dressing-closet--tormenting myself all the while with the fruitless doubt, whether
I had missed an opportunity or escaped a stratagem, or whether the young person had been really
startled, as she seemed to intimate, by the extreme youth of her intended legal adviser. The
mirror was not unnaturally called in to aid; and that cabinet-counsellor pronounced me rather
short, thick-set, with a cast of features fitter, I trust, for the bar than the ball--not handsome
enough for blushing virgins to pine for my sake, or even to invent sham cases to bring them
to my chambers--yet not ugly enough either to scare those away who came on real business--dark,
to be sure, but--NIGRI SUNT HYACINTHI--there are pretty things to be said in favour of that
complexion.

At length--as common sense will get the better in all cases when a man will but give it fair
play--I began to stand convicted in my own mind, as an ass before the interview, for having
expected too much--an ass during the interview, for having failed to extract the lady's real
purpose--and an especial ass, now that it was over, for thinking so much about it. But I can
think of nothing else, and therefore I am determined to think of this to some good purpose.

You remember Murtough O'Hara's defence of the Catholic doctrine of confession; because, 'by
his soul, his sins were always a great burden to his mind, till he had told them to the priest;
and once confessed, he never thought more about them.' I have tried his receipt, therefore;
and having poured my secret mortification into thy trusty ear, I will think no more about this
maid of the mist,

   Who, with no face, as 'twere, outfaced me.

--Four o'clock. Plague on her green mantle, she can be nothing better than a fairy; she keeps
possession of my head yet! All during dinner-time I was terribly absent; but, luckily, my father
gave the whole credit of my reverie to the abstract nature of the doctrine, VINCO VINCENTEM,
ERGO VINCO TE; upon which brocard of law the professor this morning lectured. So I got an early
dismissal to my own crib, and here am I studying, in one sense, VINCERE VINCENTEM, to get the
better of the silly passion of curiosity--I think--I think it amounts to nothing else--which
has taken such possession of my imagination, and is perpetually worrying me with the question--will
she write or no? She will not--she will not! So says Reason, and adds, Why should she take
the trouble to enter into correspondence with one who, instead of a bold, alert, prompt gallant,
proved a chicken-hearted boy, and left her the whole awkwardness of explanation, which he should
have met half-way? But then, says Fancy, she WILL write, for she was not a bit that sort of
person whom you, Mr. Reason, in your wisdom, take her to be. She was disconcerted enough, without
my adding to her distress by any impudent conduct on my part. And she will write, for--By Heaven,
she HAS written, Darsie, and with a vengeance! Here is her letter, thrown into the kitchen
by a caddie, too faithful to be bribed, either by money or whisky, to say more than that he
received it, with sixpence, from an ordinary-looking woman, as he was plying on his station
near the Cross.

'FOR ALAN FAIRFORD, ESQUIRE, BARRISTER.

'SIR,

'Excuse my mistake of to-day. I had accidentally learnt that Mr. Darsie Latimer had an intimate
friend and associate in Mr. A. Fairford. When I inquired for such a person, he was pointed
out to me at the Cross (as I think the Exchange of your city is called) in the character of
a respectable elderly man--your father, as I now understand. On inquiry at Brown's Square,
where I understood he resided, I used the full name of Alan, which naturally occasioned you
the trouble of this day's visit. Upon further inquiry, I am led to believe that you are likely
to be the person most active in the matter to which I am now about to direct your attention;
and I regret much that circumstances, arising out of my own particular situation, prevent my
communicating to you personally what I now apprise you of in this matter.

'Your friend, Mr. Darsie Latimer, is in a situation of considerable danger. You are doubtless
aware that he has been cautioned not to trust himself in England. Now, if he has not absolutely
transgressed this friendly injunction, he has at least approached as nearly to the menaced
danger as he could do, consistently with the letter of the prohibition. He has chosen his abode
in a neighbourhood very perilous to him; and it is only by a speedy return to Edinburgh, or
at least by a removal to some more remote part of Scotland, that he can escape the machinations
of those whose enmity he has to fear. I must speak in mystery, but my words are not the less
certain; and, I believe, you know enough of your friend's fortunes to be aware that I could
not write this much without being even more intimate with them than you are.

'If he cannot, or will not, take the advice here given, it is my opinion that you should join
him, if possible, without delay, and use, by your personal presence and entreaty, the arguments
which may prove ineffectual in writing. One word more, and I implore of your candour to take
it as it is meant. No one supposes that Mr. Fairford's zeal in his friend's service needs to
be quickened by mercenary motives. 'But report says, that Mr. Alan Fairford, not having yet
entered on his professional career, may, in such a case as this, want the means, though he
cannot want the inclination, to act with promptitude. The enclosed note Mr. Alan Fairford must
be pleased to consider as his first professional emolument; and she who sends it hopes it will
be the omen of unbounded success, though the fee comes from a hand so unknown as that of 'GREEN
MANTLE'.

A bank-note of L20 was the enclosure, and the whole incident left me speechless with astonishment.
I am not able to read over the beginning of my own letter, which forms the introduction to
this extraordinary communication. I only know that, though mixed with a quantity of foolery
(God knows very much different from my present feelings), it gives an account sufficiently
accurate, of the mysterious person from whom this letter comes, and that I have neither time
nor patience to separate the absurd commentary from the text, which it is so necessary you
should know.

Combine this warning, so strangely conveyed, with the caution impressed on you by your London
correspondent, Griffiths, against your visiting England--with the character of your Laird of
the Solway Lakes--with the lawless habits of the people on that frontier country, where warrants
are not easily executed owing to the jealousy entertained by either country of the legal interference
of the other; remember, that even Sir John Fielding said to my father that he could never trace
a rogue beyond the Briggend of Dumfries--think that the distinctions of Whig and Tory, Papist
and Protestant, still keep that country in a loose and comparatively lawless state--think of
all this, my dearest Darsie, and remember that, while at this Mount Sharon of yours, you are
residing with a family actually menaced with forcible interference, and who, while their obstinacy
provokes violence, are by principle bound to abstain from resistance.

Nay, let me tell you, professionally, that the legality of the mode of fishing practised by
your friend Joshua is greatly doubted by our best lawyers; and that, if the stake-nets be considered
as actually an unlawful obstruction raised in the channel of the estuary, an assembly of persons
who shall proceed, VIA FACTI, to pull dawn and destroy them, would not, in the eye of the law,
be esteemed guilty of a riot. So, by remaining where you are, YOU are likely to be engaged
in a quarrel with which you have nothing to do, and thus to enable your enemies, whoever these
may be, to execute, amid the confusion of a general hubbub, whatever designs they may have
against your personal safety. Black-fishers, poachers, and smugglers are a sort of gentry that
will not be much checked, either by your Quaker's texts, or by your chivalry. If you are Don
Quixote enough to lay lance in rest, in defence of those of the stake-net, and of the sad-coloured
garment, I pronounce you but a lost knight; for, as I said before, I doubt if these potent
redressers of wrongs, the justices and constables, will hold themselves warranted to interfere.
In a word, return, my dear Amadis; the adventure of the Solway-nets is not reserved for your
worship. Come back, and I will be your faithful Sancho Panza upon a more hopeful quest. We
will beat about together, in search of this Urganda, the Unknown She of the Green Mantle, who
can read this, the riddle of thy fate, better than wise Eppie of Buckhaven, [Well known in
the Chap-Book, called the History of Buckhaven.] or Cassandra herself.

I would fain trifle, Darsie; for, in debating with you, jests will sometimes go farther than
arguments; but I am sick at heart and cannot keep the ball up. If you have a moment's regard
for the friendship we have so often vowed to each other, let my wishes for once prevail over
your own venturous and romantic temper. I am quite serious in thinking that the information
communicated to my father by this Mr. Herries, and the admonitory letter of the young lady,
bear upon each other; and that, were you here, you might learn something from one or other,
or from both, that; might throw light on your birth and parentage. You will not, surely, prefer
an idle whim to the prospect which is thus held out to you?

I would, agreeably to the hint I have received in the young lady's letter (for I am confident
that such is her condition), have ere now been with you to urge these things, instead of pouring
them out upon paper. But you know that the day for my trials is appointed; I have already gone
through the form of being introduced to the examinators, and have gotten my titles assigned
me. All this should not keep me at home, but my father would view any irregularity upon this
occasion as a mortal blow to the hopes which he has cherished most fondly during his life;
viz. my being called to the bar with some credit. For my own part, I know there is no great
difficulty in passing these formal examinations, else how have some of our acquaintance got
through them? But, to my father, these formalities compose an august and serious solemnity,
to which he has long looked forward, and my absenting myself at this moment would wellnigh
drive him distracted. Yet I shall go altogether distracted myself, if I have not an instant
assurance from you that you are hastening hither. Meanwhile I have desired Hannah to get your
little crib into the best order possible. I cannot learn that my father has yet written to
you; nor has he spoken more of his communication with Birrenswork; but when I let him have
some inkling of the dangers you are at present incurring, I know my request that you will return
immediately will have his cordial support.

Another reason yet--I must give a dinner, as usual, upon my admission, to our friends; and
my father, laying aside all his usual considerations of economy, has desired it may be in the
best style possible. Come hither then, dear Darsie! or, I protest to you, I shall send examination,
admission-dinner, and guests to the devil, and come, in person, to fetch you with a vengeance.
Thine, in much anxiety, A. F.

LETTER IX

ALEXANDER FAIRFORD, W.S., TO MR. DARSIE LATIMER

DEAR MR. DARSIE,

Having been your FACTOR LOCO TUTORIS or rather, I ought to say, in correctness (since I acted
without warrant from the court), your NEGOTIORUM GESTOR, that connexion occasions my present
writing. And although having rendered an account of my intromissions, which have been regularly
approved of, not only by yourself (whom I could not prevail upon to look at more than the docket
and sum total), but also by the worthy Mr. Samuel Griffiths of London, being the hand through
whom the remittances were made, I may, in some sense, be considered as to you FUNCTUS OFFICIO;
yet to speak facetiously, I trust you will not hold me accountable as a vicious intromitter,
should I still consider myself as occasionally interested in your welfare. My motives for writing,
at this time, are twofold.

I have met with a Mr. Herries of Birrenswork, a gentleman of very ancient descent, but who
hath in time past been in difficulties, nor do I know if his affairs are yet well redd. Birrenswork
says that he believes he was very familiar with your father, whom he states to have been called
Ralph Latimer of Langcote Hall, in Westmoreland; and he mentioned family affairs, which it
may be of the highest importance to you to be acquainted with; but as he seemed to decline
communicating them to me, I could not civilly urge him thereanent. Thus much I know, that Mr.
Herries had his own share in the late desperate and unhappy matter of 1745, and was in trouble
about it, although that is probably now over. Moreover, although he did not profess the Popish
religion openly, he had an eye that way. And both of these are reasons why I have hesitated
to recommend him to a youth who maybe hath not altogether so well founded his opinions concerning
Kirk and State, that they might not be changed by some sudden wind of doctrine. For I have
observed ye, Master Darsie, to be rather tinctured with the old leaven of prelacy--this under
your leave; and although God forbid that you should be in any manner disaffected to the Protestant
Hanoverian line, yet ye have ever loved to hear the blawing, blazing stories which the Hieland
gentlemen tell of those troublous times, which, if it were their will, they had better pretermit,
as tending rather to shame than to honour. It is come to me also by a sidewind, as I may say,
that you have been neighbouring more than was needful among some of the pestilent sect of Quakers--a
people who own neither priest nor king, nor civil magistrate, nor the fabric of our law, and
will not depone either IN CIVILIBUS or CRIMINALIBUS, be the loss to the lieges what it may.
Anent which heresies, it were good ye read 'The Snake in the Grass' or 'The Foot out of the
Snare,' being both well-approved tracts, touching these doctrines.

Now, Mr. Darsie, ye are to judge for yourself whether ye can safely to your soul's weal remain
longer among these Papists and Quakers--these defections on the right hand, and failings away
on the left; and truly if you can confidently resist these evil examples of doctrine, I think
ye may as well tarry in the bounds where ye are, until you see Mr. Herries of Birrenswork,
who does assuredly know more of your matters than I thought had been communicated to any man
in Scotland. I would fain have precognosced him myself on these affairs, but found him unwilling
to speak out, as I have partly intimated before.

To call a new cause--I have the pleasure to tell you, that Alan has passed his private Scots
Law examinations with good approbation--a great relief to my mind; especially as worthy Mr.
Pest told me in my ear there was no fear of 'the callant', as he familiarly called him, which
gives me great heart. His public trials, which are nothing in comparison save a mere form,
are to take place, by order of the Honourable Dean of Faculty, on Wednesday first; and on Friday
he puts on the gown, and gives a bit chack of dinner to his friends and acquaintances, as is,
you know, the custom. Your company will be wished for there, Master Darsie, by more than him,
which I regret to think is impossible to have, as well by your engagements, as that our cousin,
Peter Fairford, comes from the West on purpose, and we have no place to offer him but your
chamber in the wall. And, to be plain with you, after my use and wont, Master Darsie, it may
be as well that Alan and you do not meet till he is hefted as it were to his new calling. You
are a pleasant gentleman, and full of daffing, which may well become you, as you have enough
(as I understand) to uphold your merry humour. If you regard the matter wisely, you would perchance
consider that a man of substance should have a douce and staid demeanour; yet you are so far
from growing grave and considerate with the increase of your annual income, that the richer
you become, the merrier I think you grow. But this must be at your own pleasure, so far as
you are concerned. Alan, however (overpassing my small savings), has the world to win; and
louping and laughing, as you and he were wont to do, would soon make the powder flee out of
his wig, and the pence out of his pocket. Nevertheless, I trust you will meet when you return
from your rambles; for there is a time, as the wise man sayeth, for gathering, and a time for
casting away; it is always the part of a man of sense to take the gathering time first. I remain,
dear sir, your well-wishing friend; and obedient to command, ALEXANDER FAIRFORD.

PS.--Alan's Thesis is upon the title DE PERICULO ET COMMODO REI VENDITAE, and is a very pretty
piece of Latinity.--Ross House, in our neighbourhood, is nearly finished, and is thought to
excel Duff House in ornature.

LETTER X

DARSIE LATIMER TO ALAN FAIRFORD

The plot thickens, Alan. I have your letter, and also one from your father. The last makes
it impossible for me to comply with the kind request which the former urges. No--I cannot be
with you, Alan; and that, for the best of all reasons--I cannot and ought not to counteract
your father's anxious wishes. I do not take it unkind of him that he desires my absence. It
is natural that he should wish for his son what his son so well deserves--the advantage of
a wiser and steadier companion than I seem to him. And yet I am sure I have often laboured
hard enough to acquire that decency of demeanour which can no more be suspected of breaking
bounds, than an owl of catching a butterfly.

But it was in vain that I have knitted my brows till I had the headache, in order to acquire
the reputation of a grave, solid, and well-judging youth. Your father always has discovered,
or thought that he discovered, a hare-brained eccentricity lying folded among the wrinkles
of my forehead, which rendered me a perilous associate for the future counsellor and ultimate
judge. Well, Corporal Nym's philosophy must be my comfort--'Things must be as they may.'--I
cannot come to your father's house, where he wishes not to see me; and as to your coming hither,--by
all that is dear to me, I vow that if you are guilty of such a piece of reckless folly--not
to say undutiful cruelty, considering your father's thoughts and wishes--I will never speak
to you again as long as I live! I am perfectly serious. And besides, your father, while he
in a manner prohibits me from returning to Edinburgh, gives me the strongest reasons for continuing
a little while longer in this country, by holding out the hope that I may receive from your
old friend, Mr. Herries of Birrenswork, some particulars concerning my origin, with which that
ancient recusant seems to be acquainted.

That gentleman mentioned the name of a family in Westmoreland, with which he supposes me connected.
My inquiries here after such a family have been ineffectual, for the borderers, on either side,
know little of each other. But I shall doubtless find some English person of whom to make inquiries,
since the confounded fetterlock clapped on my movements by old Griffiths, prevents me repairing
to England in person. At least, the prospect of obtaining some information is greater here
than elsewhere; it will be an apology for my making a longer stay in this neighbourhood, a
line of conduct which seems to have your father's sanction, whose opinion must be sounder than
that of your wandering damoselle.

If the road were paved with dangers which leads to such a discovery, I cannot for a moment
hesitate to tread it. But in fact there is no peril in the case. If the Tritons of the Solway
shall proceed to pull down honest Joshua's tide-nets, I am neither Quixote enough in disposition,
nor Goliath enough in person, to attempt their protection. I have no idea of attempting to
prop a falling house by putting my shoulders against it. And indeed, Joshua gave me a hint
that the company which he belongs to, injured in the way threatened (some of them being men
who thought after the fashion of the world), would pursue the rioters at law, and recover damages,
in which probably his own ideas of non-resistance will not prevent his participating. Therefore
the whole affair will take its course as law will, as I only mean to interfere when it may
be necessary to direct the course of the plaintiffs to thy chambers; and I request they may
find thee intimate with all the Scottish statutes concerning salmon fisheries, from the LEX
AQUARUM, downward.

As for the Lady of the Mantle, I will lay a wager that the sun so bedazzled thine eyes on that
memorable morning, that everything thou didst look upon seemed green; and notwithstanding James
Wilkinson's experience in the Fusileers, as well as his negative whistle, I will venture to
hold a crown that she is but a what-shall-call-'um after all. Let not even the gold persuade
you to the contrary. She may make a shift to cause you to disgorge that, and (immense spoil!)
a session's fees to boot, if you look not all the sharper about you. Or if it should be otherwise,
and if indeed there lurk some mystery under this visitation, credit me, it is one which thou
canst not penetrate, nor can I as yet even attempt to explain it; since, if I prove mistaken,
and mistaken I may easily be, I would be fain to creep into Phalaris's bull, were it standing
before me ready heated, rather than be roasted with thy raillery. Do not tax me with want of
confidence; for the instant I can throw any light on the matter thou shalt have it; but while
I am only blundering about in the dark, I do not choose to call wise folks to see me, perchance,
break my nose against a post. So if you marvel at this,

  E'en marvel on till time makes all things plain.

In the meantime, kind Alan, let me proceed in my diurnal.

On the third or fourth day after my arrival at Mount Sharon, Time, that bald sexton to whom
I have just referred you, did certainly limp more heavily along with me than he had done at
first. The quaint morality of Joshua, and Huguenot simplicity of his sister, began to lose
much of their raciness with their novelty, and my mode of life, by dint of being very quiet,
began to feel abominably dull. It was, as thou say'st, as if the Quakers had put the sun in
their pockets--all around was soft and mild, and even pleasant; but there was, in the whole
routine, a uniformity, a want of interest, a helpless and hopeless languor, which rendered
life insipid. No doubt, my worthy host and hostess felt none of this void, this want of excitation,
which was becoming oppressive to their guest. They had their little round of occupations, charities,
and pleasures; Rachel had her poultry-yard and conservatory, and Joshua his garden. Besides
this, they enjoyed, doubtless, their devotional meditations; and, on the whole, time glided
softly and imperceptibly on with them, though to me, who long for stream and cataract, it seemed
absolutely to stand still. I meditated returning to Shepherd's Bush, and began to think, with
some hankering, after little Benjie and the rod. The imp has ventured hither, and hovers about
to catch a peep of me now and then; I suppose the little sharper is angling for a few more
sixpences. But this would have been, in Joshua's eyes, a return of the washed sow to wallowing
in the mire, and I resolved, while I remained his guest, to spare him so violent a shock to
his prejudices. The next point was, to shorten the time of my proposed stay; but, alas! that
I felt to be equally impossible. I had named a week; and however rashly my promise had been
pledged, it must be held sacred, even according to the letter, from which the Friends permit
no deviation.

All these considerations wrought me up to a kind of impatience yesterday evening; so that I
snatched up my hat, and prepared for a sally beyond the cultivated farm and ornamented grounds
of Mount Sharon, just as if I were desirous to escape from the realms of art, into those of
free and unconstrained nature.

I was scarcely more delighted when I first entered this peaceful demesne, than I now was--such
is the instability and inconsistency of human nature!--when I escaped from it to the open downs,
which had formerly seemed so waste and dreary, The air I breathed felt purer and more bracing.
The clouds, riding high upon a summer breeze, drove, in gay succession, over my head, now obscuring
the sun, now letting its rays stream in transient flashes upon various parts of the landscape,
and especially upon the broad mirror of the distant Firth of Solway.

I advanced on the scene with the light step of a liberated captive; and, like John Bunyan's
Pilgrim, could have found in my heart to sing as I went on my way. It seemed as if my gaiety
had accumulated while suppressed, and that I was, in my present joyous mood, entitled to expend
the savings of the previous week. But just as I was about to uplift a merry stave, I heard,
to my joyful surprise, the voices of three or more choristers, singing, with considerable success,
the lively old catch,

  For all our men were very very merry,
    And all our men were drinking:
    There were two men of mine,
    Three men of thine,
  And three that belonged to old Sir Thom o' Lyne;
  As they went to the ferry, they were very very merry,
    And all our men were drinking.'

[The original of this catch is to be found in Cowley's witty comedy of THE GUARDIAN, the first
edition. It does not exist in the second and revised edition, called THE CUTTER OF COLEMAN STREET.

  CAPTAIN BLADE.  Ha, ha, boys, another catch.
             AND ALL OUR MEN ARE VERY VERY MERRY,
             AND ALL OUR MEN WERE DRINKING.
  CUTTER.    ONE MAN OF MINE.
  DOGREL.    TWO MEN OF MINE.
  BLADE.     THREE MEN OF MINE.
  CUTTER.    AND ONE MAN OF MINE.
  OMNES.     AS WE WENT BY THE WAY WE WERE DRUNK, DRUNK, DAMNABLY
             DRUNK, AND ALL OUR MEN WERE VERY VERY MERRY, &c.

Such are the words, which are somewhat altered and amplified in the text. The play was acted
in presence of Charles II, then Prince of Wales, in 1641. The catch in the text has been happily
set to music.]

As the chorus ended, there followed a loud and hearty laugh by way of cheers. Attracted by
sounds which were so congenial to my present feelings, I made towards the spot from which they
came,--cautiously, however, for the downs, as had been repeatedly hinted to me, had no good
name; and the attraction of the music, without rivalling that of the sirens in melody, might
have been followed by similarly inconvenient consequences to an incautious amateur.

I crept on, therefore, trusting that the sinuosities of the ground, broken as it was into knells
and sand-pits, would permit me to obtain a sight of the musicians before I should be observed
by them. As I advanced, the old ditty was again raised. The voices seemed those of a man and
two boys; they were rough, but kept good time, and were managed with too much skill to belong
to the ordinary country people.

The voices, as they mixed in their several parts, and ran through them, untwisting and again
entwining all the links of the merry old catch, seemed to have a little touch of the bacchanalian
spirit which they celebrated, and showed plainly that the musicians were engaged in the same
joyous revel as the MENYIE of old Sir Thom o' Lyne. At length I came within sight of them,
three in number, where they sat cosily niched into what you might call a BUNKER, a little sand-pit,
dry and snug, and surrounded by its banks, and a screen of whins in full bloom.

The only one of the trio whom I recognized as a personal acquaintance was the notorious little
Benjie, who, having just finished his stave, was cramming a huge luncheon of pie-crust into
his mouth with one hand, while in the other he held a foaming tankard, his eyes dancing with
all the glee of a forbidden revel; and his features, which have at all times a mischievous
archness of expression, confessing the full sweetness of stolen waters, and bread eaten in secret.

There was no mistaking the profession of the male and female, who were partners with Benjie
in these merry doings. The man's long loose-bodied greatcoat (wrap-rascal as the vulgar term
it), the fiddle-case, with its straps, which lay beside him, and a small knapsack which might
contain his few necessaries; a clear grey eye; features which, in contending with many a storm,
had not lost a wild and, careless expression of glee, animated at present, when he was exercising
for his own pleasure the arts which he usually practised for bread,--all announced one of those
peripatetic followers of Orpheus whom the vulgar call a strolling fiddler. Gazing more attentively,
I easily discovered that though the poor musician's eyes were open, their sense was shut, and
that the ecstasy with which he turned them up to heaven only derived its apparent expression
from his own internal emotions, but received no assistance from the visible objects around.
Beside him sat his female companion, in a man's hat, a blue coat, which seemed also to have
been an article of male apparel, and a red petticoat. She was cleaner, in person and in clothes,
than such itinerants generally are; and, having been in her day a strapping BONA ROBA, she
did not even yet neglect some attention to her appearance; wore a large amber necklace, and
silver ear-rings, and had her laid fastened across her breast with a brooch of the same metal.

The man also looked clean, notwithstanding the meanness of his attire, and had a decent silk
handkerchief well knotted about his throat, under which peeped a clean owerlay. His beard,
also, instead of displaying a grizzly stubble, unmowed for several days, flowed in thick and
comely abundance over the breast, to the length of six inches, and mingled with his hair, which
was but beginning to exhibit a touch of age. To sum up his appearance, the loose garment which
I have described was secured around him by a large old-fashioned belt, with brass studs, in
which hung a dirk, with a knife and fork, its usual accompaniments. Altogether, there was something
more wild and adventurous-looking about the man than I could have expected to see in an ordinary
modern crowder; and the bow which he now and then drew across the violin, to direct his little
choir, was decidedly that of no ordinary performer.

You must understand that many of these observations were the fruits of after remark; for I
had scarce approached so near as to get a distinct view of the party, when my friend Benjie's
lurching attendant, which he calls by the appropriate name of Hemp, began to cock his tail
and ears, and, sensible of my presence, flew, barking like a fury, to the place where I had
meant to lie concealed till I heard another song. I was obliged, however, to jump on my feet,
and intimidate Hemp, who would otherwise have bit me, by two sound kicks on the ribs, which
sent him howling back to his master.

Little Benjie seemed somewhat dismayed at my appearance; but, calculating on my placability,
and remembering, perhaps, that the ill-used Solomon was no palfrey of mine, he speedily affected
great glee, and almost in one breath assured the itinerants that I was 'a grand gentleman,
and had plenty of money, and was very kind to poor folk;' and informed me that this was 'Willie
Steenson--Wandering Willie the best fiddler that ever kittled thairm with horse-hair.'

The woman rose and curtsied; and Wandering Willie sanctioned his own praises with a nod, and
the ejaculation, 'All is true that the little boy says.'

I asked him if he was of this country.

'THIS country!' replied the blind man--'I am of every country in broad Scotland, and a wee
bit of England to the boot. But yet I am, in some sense, of this country; for I was born within
hearing of the roar of Solway. Will I give your honour a touch of the auld bread-winner?'

He preluded as he spoke, in a manner which really excited my curiosity; and then, taking the
old tune of Galashiels for his theme, he graced it with a number of wild, complicated, and
beautiful variations; during which it was wonderful to observe how his sightless face was lighted
up under the conscious pride and heartfelt delight in the exercise of his own very considerable
powers.

'What think you of that, now, for threescore and twa?'

I expressed my surprise and pleasure.

'A rant, man--an auld rant,' said Willie; 'naething like the music ye hae in your ballhouses
and your playhouses in Edinbro'; but it's weel aneugh anes in a way at a dykeside. Here's another--it's
no a Scotch tune, but it passes for ane--Oswald made it himsell, I reckon--he has cheated mony
ane, but he canna cheat Wandering Willie.'

He then played your favourite air of Roslin Castle, with a number of beautiful variations,
some of which I am certain were almost extempore.

'You have another fiddle there, my friend,' said I--'Have you a comrade?' But Willie's ears
were deaf, or his attention was still busied with the tune.

The female replied in his stead, 'O aye, sir--troth we have a partner--a gangrel body like
oursells. No but my hinny might have been better if he had liked; for mony a bein nook in mony
a braw house has been offered to my hinny Willie, if he wad but just bide still and play to
the gentles.'

'Whisht, woman! whisht!' said the blind man, angrily, shaking his locks; 'dinna deave the gentleman
wi' your havers. Stay in a house and play to the gentles!--strike up when my leddy pleases,
and lay down the bow when my lord bids! Na, na, that's nae life for Willie. Look out, Maggie--peer
out, woman, and see if ye can see Robin coming. Deil be in him! He has got to the lee-side
of some smuggler's punch-bowl, and he wunna budge the night, I doubt.'

'That is your consort's instrument,' said I--' Will you give me leave to try my skill?' I slipped
at the same time a shilling into the woman's hand.

'I dinna ken whether I dare trust Robin's fiddle to ye,' said Willie, bluntly. His wife gave
him a twitch. 'Hout awa, Maggie,' he said in contempt of the hint; 'though the gentleman may
hae gien ye siller, he may have nae bowhand for a' that, and I'll no trust Robin's fiddle wi'
an ignoramus. But that's no sae muckle amiss,' he added, as I began to touch the instrument;
'I am thinking ye have some skill o' the craft.'

To confirm him in this favourable opinion, I began to execute such a complicated flourish as
I thought must have turned Crowdero into a pillar of stone with envy and wonder. I scaled the
top of the finger-board, to dive at once to the bottom--skipped with flying fingers, like Timotheus,
from shift to shift--struck arpeggios and harmonic tones, but without exciting any of the astonishment
which I had expected.

Willie indeed listened to me with considerable attention; but I was no sooner finished, than
he immediately mimicked on his own instrument the fantastic complication of tones which I had
produced, and made so whimsical a parody of my performance, that, although somewhat angry,
I could not help laughing heartily, in which I was joined by Benjie, whose reverence for me
held him under no restraint; while the poor dame, fearful, doubtless, of my taking offence
at this familiarity, seemed divided betwixt her conjugal reverence for her Willie, and her
desire to give him a hint for his guidance.

At length the old man stopped of his own accord, and, as if he had sufficiently rebuked me
by his mimicry, he said, 'But for a' that, ye will play very weel wi' a little practice and
some gude teaching. But ye maun learn to put the heart into it, man--to put the heart into it.'

I played an air in simpler taste, and received more decided approbation.

'That's something like it man. Od, ye are a clever birkie!'

The woman touched his coat again. 'The gentleman is a gentleman, Willie--ye maunna speak that
gate to him, hinnie.'

'The deevil I maunna!' said Willie; 'and what for maunna I?--If he was ten gentles, he canna
draw a bow like me, can he?'

'Indeed I cannot, my honest friend,' said I; 'and if you will go with me to a house hard by,
I would be glad to have a night with you.'

Here I looked round, and observed Benjie smothering a laugh, which I was sure had mischief
in it. I seized him suddenly by the ear, and made him confess that he was laughing at the thoughts
of the reception which a fiddler was likely to get from the Quakers at Mount Sharon. I chucked
him from me, not sorry that his mirth had reminded me in time of what I had for the moment
forgotten; and invited the itinerant to go with me to Shepherd's Bush, from which I proposed
to send word to Mr. Geddes that I should not return home that evening. But the minstrel declined
this invitation also. He was engaged for the night, he said, to a dance in the neighbourhood,
and vented a round execration on the laziness or drunkenness of his comrade, who had not appeared
at the place of rendezvous.

'I will go with you instead of him,' said I, in a sudden whim; 'and I will give you a crown
to introduce me as your comrade.'

'YOU gang instead of Rob the Rambler! My certie, freend, ye are no blate!' answered Wandering
Willie, in a tone which announced death to my frolic.

But Maggie, whom the offer of the crown had not escaped, began to open on that scent with a
maundering sort of lecture. 'Oh Willie! hinny Willie, whan will ye learn to be wise? There's
a crown to be win for naething but saying ae man's name instead of anither. And, wae's me!
I hae just a shilling of this gentleman's gieing, and a boddle of my ain; and ye wunna, bend
your will sae muckle as to take up the siller that's flung at your feet! Ye will die the death
of a cadger's powney, in a wreath of drift! and what can I do better than lie doun and die
wi' you? for ye winna let me win siller to keep either you or mysell leevin.'

'Haud your nonsense tongue, woman,' said Willie, but less absolutely than before. 'Is he a
real gentleman, or ane of the player-men?'

'I'se uphaud him a real gentleman,' said the woman.

'I'se uphaud ye ken little of the matter,' said Willie; 'let us see haud of your hand, neebor,
gin ye like.

I gave him my hand. He said to himself, 'Aye, aye, here are fingers that have seen canny service.'
Then running his hand over my hair, my face, and my dress, he went on with his soliloquy; 'Aye,
aye, muisted hair, braidclaith o' the best, and seenteen hundred linen on his back, at the
least o' it. And how do you think, my braw birkie, that you are to pass for a tramping fiddler?'

'My dress is plain,' said I,--indeed I had chosen my most ordinary suit, out of compliment
to my Quaker friends,--'and I can easily pass for a young farmer out upon a frolic. Come, I
will double the crown I promised you.'

'Damn your crowns!' said the disinterested man of music. 'I would like to have a round wi'
you, that's certain;--but a farmer, and with a hand that never held pleugh-stilt or pettle,
that will never do. Ye may pass for a trades-lad from Dumfries, or a student upon the ramble,
or the like o' that. But hark ye, lad; if ye expect to be ranting among the queans o' lasses
where ye are gaun, ye will come by the waur, I can tell ye; for the fishers are wild chaps,
and will bide nae taunts.'

I promised to be civil and cautious; and, to smooth the good woman, I slipped the promised
piece into her hand. The acute organs of the blind man detected this little manoeuvre.

'Are ye at it again wi' the siller, ye jaud? I'll be sworn ye wad rather hear ae twalpenny
clink against another, than have a spring from Rory Dall, [Blind Rorie, a famous musician according
to tradition.] if he was-coming alive again anes errand. Gang doun the gate to Lucky Gregson's
and get the things ye want, and bide there till ele'en hours in the morn; and if you see Robin,
send him on to me.'

'Am I no gaun to the ploy, then?' said Maggie, in a disappointed tone.

'And what for should ye?' said her lord and master; 'to dance a' night, I'se warrant, and no
to be fit to walk your tae's-length the morn, and we have ten Scots miles afore us? Na, na.
Stable the steed, and pit your wife to bed, when there's night wark to do.'

'Aweel, aweel, Willie hinnie, ye ken best; but oh, take an unco care o' yoursell, and mind
ye haena the blessing o' sight.'

'Your tongue gars me whiles tire of the blessing of hearing, woman,' replied 'Willie, in answer
to this tender exhortation.

But I now put in for my interest. 'Hollo, good folks, remember that I am to send the boy to
Mount Sharon, and if you go to the Shepherd's Bush, honest woman, how the deuce am I to guide
the blind man where he is going? I know little or nothing of the country.'

'And ye ken mickle less of my hinnie, sir,' replied Maggie, 'that think he needs ony guiding;
he's the best guide himsell that ye'll find between Criffell and Carlisle. Horse-road and foot-path,
parish-road and kirk-road, high-road and cross-road, he kens ilka foot of ground in Nithsdale.'

'Aye, ye might have said in braid Scotland, gudewife,' added the fiddler. 'But gang your ways,
Maggie, that's the first wise word ye hae spoke the day. I wish it was dark night, and rain,
and wind, for the gentleman's sake, that I might show him there is whiles when ane had better
want een than have them; for I am as true a guide by darkness as by daylight.'

Internally as well pleased that my companion was not put to give me this last proof of his
skill, I wrote a note with a pencil, desiring Samuel to bring my horses at midnight, when I
thought my frolic would be wellnigh over, to the place to which the bearer should direct him,
and I sent little Benjie with an apology to the worthy Quakers.

As we parted in different directions, the good woman said, 'Oh, sir, if ye wad but ask Willie
to tell ye ane of his tales to shorten the gate! He can speak like ony minister frae the pu'pit,
and he might have been a minister himsell, but'--

'Haud your tongue, ye fule!' said Willie,--'But stay, Meg--gie me a kiss, ne maunna part in
anger, neither.'--And thus our society separated.

[It is certain that in many cases the blind have, by constant exercise of their other organs,
learned to overcome a defect which one would think incapable of being supplied. Every reader
must remember the celebrated Blind Jack of Knaresborough, who lived by laying out roads.]

LETTER XI

THE SAME TO THE SAME

You are now to conceive us proceeding in our different directions across the bare downs. Yonder
flies little Benjie to the northward with Hemp scampering at his heels, both running as if
for dear life so long as the rogue is within sight of his employer, and certain to take the
walk very easy so soon as he is out of ken. Stepping westward, you see Maggie's tall form and
high-crowned hat, relieved by the fluttering of her plaid upon the left shoulder, darkening
as the distance diminishes her size and as the level sunbeams begin to sink upon the sea. She
is taking her quiet journey to the Shepherd's Bush.

Then, stoutly striding over the lea, you have a full view of Darsie Latimer, with his new acquaintance,
Wandering Willie, who, bating that he touched the ground now and then with his staff, not in
a doubtful groping manner, but with the confident air of an experienced pilot, heaving the
lead when he has the soundings by heart, walks as firmly and boldly as if he possessed the
eyes of Argus. There they go, each with his violin slung at his back, but one of them at least
totally ignorant whither their course is directed.

And wherefore did you enter so keenly into such a mad frolic? says my wise counsellor.--Why,
I think, upon the whole, that as a sense of loneliness, and a longing for that kindness which
is interchanged in society, led me to take up my temporary residence at Mount Sharon, the monotony
of my life there, the quiet simplicity of the conversation of the Geddeses, and the uniformity
of their amusements and employments, wearied out my impatient temper, and prepared me for the
first escapade which chance might throw in my way.

What would I have given that I could have procured that solemn grave visage of thine, to dignify
this joke, as it has done full many a one of thine own! Thou hast so happy a knack of doing
the most foolish things in the wisest manner, that thou mightst pass thy extravagances for
rational actions, even in the eyes of Prudence herself.

From the direction which my guide observed, I began to suspect that the dell at Brokenburn
was our probable destination; and it became important to me to consider whether I could, with
propriety, or even perfect safety, intrude myself again upon the hospitality of my former host.
I therefore asked Willie whether we were bound for the laird's, as folk called him.

'Do ye ken the laird?' said Willie, interrupting a sonata of Corelli, of which he had whistled
several bars with great precision.

'I know the laird a little,' said I; 'and therefore I was doubting whether I ought to go to
his town in disguise.'

'I should doubt, not a little only, but a great deal, before I took ye there, my chap,' said
Wandering Willie; 'for I am thinking it wad be worth little less than broken banes baith to
you and me. Na, na, chap, we are no ganging to the laird's, but to a blithe birling at the
Brokenburn-foot, where there will be mony a braw lad and lass; and maybe there may be some
of the laird's folks, for he never comes to sic splores himsell. He is all for fowling-piece
and salmon-spear, now that pike and musket are out of the question.'

'He has been at soldier, then?' said I.

'I'se warrant him a soger,' answered Willie; 'but take my advice, and speer as little about
him as he does about you. Best to let sleeping dogs lie. Better say naething about the laird,
my man, and tell me instead, what sort of a chap ye are that are sae ready to cleik in with
an auld gaberlunzie fiddler? Maggie says ye're gentle, but a shilling maks a' the difference
that Maggie kens between a gentle and a semple, and your crowns wad mak ye a prince of the
blood in her een. But I am ane that ken full weel that ye may wear good claithes, and have
a saft hand, and yet that may come of idleness as weel as gentrice.'

I told him my name, with the same addition I had formerly given to Mr. Joshua Geddes; that
I was a law-student, tired of my studies, and rambling about for exercise and amusement.

'And are ye in the wont of drawing up wi' a' the gangrel bodies that ye meet on the high-road,
or find cowering in a sand-bunker upon the links?' demanded Willie.

'Oh, no; only with honest folks like yourself, Willie,' was my reply.

'Honest folks like me! How do ye ken whether I am honest, or what I am? I may be the deevil
himsell for what ye ken; for he has power to come disguised like an angel of light; and besides
he is a prime fiddler. He played a sonata to Corelli, ye ken.'

There was something odd in this speech, and the tone in which it was said. It seemed as if
my companion was not always in his constant mind, or that he was willing to try if he could
frighten me. I laughed at the extravagance of his language, however, and asked him in reply,
if he was fool enough to believe that the foul fiend would play so silly a masquerade.

'Ye ken little about it--little about it,' said the old man, shaking his head and beard, and
knitting his brows, 'I could tell ye something about that.'

What his wife mentioned of his being a tale-teller, as well as a musician, now occurred to
me; and as you know I like tales of superstition, I begged to have a specimen of his talent
as we went along.

'It is very true,' said the blind man, 'that when I am tired of scraping thairm or singing
ballants, I whiles mak a tale serve the turn among the country bodies; and I have some fearsome
anes, that make the auld carlines shake on the settle, and the bits o' bairns skirl on their
minnies out frae their beds. But this that I am gaun to tell you was a thing that befell in
our ain house in my father's time--that is, my father was then a hafflins callant; and I tell
it to you that it may be a lesson to you, that are but a young, thoughtless chap, wha ye draw
up wi' on a lonely road; for muckle was the dool and care that came o't to my gudesire.'

He commenced his tale accordingly, in a distinct narrative tone of voice which he raised and
depressed with considerable skill; at times sinking almost into a whisper, and turning his
clear but sightless eyeballs upon my face, as if it had been possible for him to witness the
impression which his narrative made upon my features. I will not spare you a syllable of it,
although it be of the longest; so I make a dash--and begin

WANDERING WILLIE'S TALE.

Ye maun have heard of Sir Robert Redgauntlet of that Ilk, who lived in these parts before the
dear years. The country will lang mind him; and our fathers used to draw breath thick if ever
they heard him named. He was out wi' the Hielandmen in Montrose's time; and again he was in
the hills wi' Glencairn in the saxteen hundred and fifty-twa; and sae when King Charles the
Second came in, wha was in sic favour as the Laird of Redgauntlet? He was knighted at Lonon
court, wi' the king's ain sword; and being a redhot prelatist, he came down here, rampauging
like a lion, with commissions of lieutenancy (and of lunacy, for what I ken) to put down a'
the Whigs and Covenanters in the country. Wild wark they made of it; for the Whigs were as
dour as the Cavaliers were fierce, and it was which should first tire the other. Redgauntlet
was ay for the strong hand; and his name is kend as wide in the country as Claverhouse's or
Tam Dalyell's. Glen, nor dargle, nor mountain, nor cave, could hide the puir hill-folk when
Redgauntlet was out with bugle and bloodhound after them, as if they had been sae mony deer.
And troth when they fand them, they didna mak muckle mair ceremony than a Hielandman wi' a
roebuck--it was just, 'Will ye tak the test?'--if not, 'Make ready--present--fire!'--and there
lay the recusant.

Far and wide was Sir Robert hated and feared. Men thought he had a direct compact with Satan--that
he was proof against steel--and that bullets happed aff his buff-coat like hailstanes from
a hearth--that he had a mear that would turn a hare on the side of Carrifra-gawns [A precipitous
side of a mountain in Moffatdale.]--and muckle to the same purpose, of whilk mair anon. The
best blessing they wared on him was, 'Deil scowp wi' Redgauntlet!' He wasna a bad master to
his ain folk, though, and was weel aneugh liked by his tenants; and as for the lackies and
troopers that raid out wi' him to the persecutions, as the Whigs caa'd those killing times,
they wad hae drunken themsells blind to his health at ony time.

Now you are to ken that my gudesire lived on Redgauntlet's grund--they ca' the place Primrose
Knowe. We had lived on the grund, and under the Redgauntlets, since the riding days, and lang
before. It was a pleasant bit; and I think the air is callerer and fresher there than onywhere
else in the country. It's a' deserted now; and I sat on the broken door-cheek three days since,
and was glad I couldna see the plight the place was in; but that's a' wide o' the mark. There
dwelt my gudesire, Steenie Steenson, a rambling, rattling chiel' he had been in his young days,
and could play weel on the pipes; he was famous at 'Hoopers and Girders'--a' Cumberland couldna,
touch him at 'Jockie Lattin'--and he had the finest finger for the back-lilt between Berwick
and Carlisle. The like o' Steenie wasna the sort that they made Whigs o'. And so he became
a Tory, as they ca' it, which we now ca' Jacobites, just out of a kind of needcessity, that
he might belang to some side or other. He had nae ill will to the Whig bodies, and liked little
to see the blude rin, though, being obliged to follow Sir Robert in hunting and hoisting, watching
and warding, he saw muckle mischief, and maybe did some, that he couldna avoid.

Now Steenie was a kind of favourite with his master, and kend a' the folks about the castle,
and was often sent for to play the pipes when they were at their merriment. Auld Dougal MacCallum,
the butler, that had followed Sir Robert through gude and ill, thick and thin, pool and stream,
was specially fond of the pipes, and ay gae my gudesire his gude word wi' the laird; for Dougal
could turn his master round his finger.

Weel, round came the Revolution, and it had like to have broken the hearts baith of Dougal
and his master. But the change was not a'thegether sae great as they feared, and other folk
thought for. The Whigs made an unco crawing what they wad do with their auld enemies, and in
special wi' Sir Robert Redgauntlet. But there were ower mony great folks dipped in the same
doings, to mak a spick and span new warld. So Parliament passed it a' ower easy; and Sir Robert,
bating that he was held to hunting foxes instead of Covenanters, remained just the man he was.
[The caution and moderation of King William III, and his principles of unlimited toleration,
deprived the Cameronians of the opportunity they ardently desired, to retaliate the injuries
which they had received during the reign of prelacy, and purify the land, as they called it,
from the pollution of blood. They esteemed the Revolution, therefore, only a half measure,
which neither comprehended the rebuilding the Kirk in its full splendour, nor the revenge of
the death of the Saints on their persecutors.] His revel was as loud, and his hall as weel
lighted, as ever it had been, though maybe he lacked the fines of the nonconformists, that
used to come to stock his larder and cellar; for it is certain he began to be keener about
the rents than his tenants used to find him before, and they behoved to be prompt to the rent-day,
or else the laird wasna pleased. And he was sic an awsome body, that naebody cared to anger
him; for the oaths he swore, and the rage that he used to get into, and the looks that he put
on, made men sometimes think him a devil incarnate.

Weel, my gudesire was nae manager--no that he was a very great misguider--but he hadna the
saving gift, and he got twa terms' rent in arrear. He got the first brash at Whitsunday put
ower wi' fair word and piping; but when Martinmas came, there was a summons from the grund-officer
to come wi' the rent on a day preceese, or else Steenie behoved to flit. Sair wark he had to
get the siller; but he was weel-freended, and at last he got the haill scraped thegether--a
thousand merks--the maist of it was from a neighbour they ca'd Laurie Lapraik--a sly tod. Laurie
had walth o' gear--could hunt wi' the hound and rin wi' the hare--and be Whig or Tory, saunt
or sinner, as the wind stood. He was a professor in this Revolution warld, but he liked an
orra sough of this warld, and a tune on the pipes weel aneugh at a bytime; and abune a', he
thought he had gude security for the siller he lent my gudesire ower the stocking at Primrose
Knowe.

Away trots my gudesire to Redgauntlet Castle wi' a heavy purse and a light heart, glad to be
out of the laird's danger. Weel, the first thing he learned at the castle was, that Sir Robert
had fretted himsell into a fit of the gout, because he did not appear before twelve' o'clock.
It wasna a'thegether for sake of the money, Dougal thought; but because he didna like to part
wi' my gudesire aff the grund. Dougal was glad to see Steenie, and brought him into the great
oak parlour, and there sat the laird his leesome lane, excepting that he had beside him a great,
ill-favoured jackanape, that was a special pet of his; a cankered beast it was, and mony an
ill-natured trick it played--ill to please it was, and easily angered--ran about the haill
castle, chattering and yowling, and pinching, and biting folk, specially before ill weather,
or disturbances in the state. Sir Robert caa'd it Major Weir, after the warlock that was burnt;
[A celebrated wizard, executed at Edinburgh for sorcery and other crimes.] and few folk liked
either the name or the conditions of the creature--they thought there was something in it by
ordinar--and my gudesire was not just easy in mind when the door shut on him, and he saw himself
in the room wi' naebody but the laird, Dougal MacCallum, and the major, a thing that hadna
chanced to him before.

Sir Robert sat, or, I should say, lay, in a great armed chair, wi' his grand velvet gown, and
his feet on a cradle; for he had baith gout and gravel, and his face looked as gash and ghastly
as Satan's. Major Weir sat opposite to him, in a red laced coat, and the laird's wig on his
head; and ay as Sir Robert girned wi' pain, the jackanape girned too, like a sheep's-head between
a pair of tangs--an ill-faur'd, fearsome couple they were. The laird's buff-coat was hung on
a pin behind him, and his broadsword and his pistols within reach; for he keepit up the auld
fashion of having the weapons ready, and a horse saddled day and night, just as he used to
do when he was able to loup on horseback, and away after ony of the hill-folk he could get
speerings of. Some said it was for fear of the Whigs taking vengeance, but I judge it was just
his auld custom--he wasna, gien to fear onything. The rental-book, wi' its black cover and
brass clasps, was lying beside him; and a book of sculduddry sangs was put betwixt the leaves,
to keep it open at the place where it bore evidence against the Goodman of Primrose Knowe,
as behind the hand with his mails and duties. Sir Robert gave my gudesire a look, as if he
would have withered his heart in his bosom. Ye maun ken he had a way of bending his brows,
that men saw the visible mark of a horseshoe in his forehead, deep dinted, as if it had been
stamped there.

'Are ye come light-handed, ye son of a toom whistle?' said Sir Robert. 'Zounds! if you are'--

My gudesire, with as gude acountenance as he could put on, made a leg, and placed the bag of
money on the table wi' a dash, like a man that does something clever. The laird drew it to
him hastily--'Is it all here, Steenie, man?'

'Your honour will find it right,' said my gudesire.

'Here, Dougal,' said the laird, 'gie Steenie a tass of brandy downstairs, till I count the
siller and write the receipt.'

But they werena weel out of the room, when Sir Robert gied a yelloch that garr'd the castle
rock. Back ran Dougal--in flew the livery-men--yell on yell gied the laird, ilk ane mair awfu'
than the ither. My gudesire knew not whether to stand or flee, but he ventured back into the
parlour, where a' was gaun hirdy-girdie--naebody to say 'come in,' or 'gae out.' Terribly the
laird roared for cauld water to his feet, and wine to cool his throat; and Hell, hell, hell,
and its flames, was ay the word in his mouth. They brought him water, and when they plunged
his swollen feet into the tub, he cried out it was burning; and folk say that it DID bubble
and sparkle like a seething cauldron. He flung the cup at Dougal's head, and said he had given
him blood instead of burgundy; and, sure aneugh, the lass washed clotted blood aff the carpet;
the neist day. The jackanape they caa'd Major Weir, it jibbered and cried as if it was mocking
its master; my gudesire's head was like to turn--he forgot baith siller and receipt, and downstairs
he banged; but as he ran, the shrieks came faint and fainter; there was a deep-drawn shivering
groan, and word gaed through the castle that the laird was dead.

Weel, away came my gudesire, wi' his finger in his mouth, and his best hope was that Dougal
had seen the money-bag, and heard the laird speak of writing the receipt. The young laird,
now Sir John, came from Edinburgh, to see things put to rights. Sir John and his father never
gree'd weel. Sir John had been bred an advocate, and afterwards sat in the last Scots Parliament
and voted for the Union, having gotten, it was thought, a rug of the compensations--if his
father could have come out of his grave, he would have brained him for it on his awn hearthstane.
Some thought it was easier counting with the auld rough knight than the fair-spoken young ane--but
mair of that anon.

Dougal MacCallum, poor body, neither grat nor grained, but gaed about the house looking like
a corpse, but directing, as was his duty, a' the order of the grand funeral. Now Dougal looked
ay waur and waur when night was coming, and was ay the last to gang to his bed, whilk was in
a little round just opposite the chamber of dais, whilk his master occupied while he was living,
and where he now lay in state, as they caa'd it, weel-a-day! The night before the funeral,
Dougal could keep his awn counsel nae langer; he came doun with his proud spirit, and fairly
asked auld Hutcheon to sit in his room with him for an hour. When they were in the round, Dougal
took ae tass of brandy to himsell, and gave another to Hutcheon, and wished him all health
and lang life, and said that, for himsell, he wasna lang for this world; for that, every night
since Sir Robert's death, his silver call had sounded from the state chamber, just as it used
to do at nights in his lifetime, to call Dougal to help to turn him in his bed. Dougal said
that being alone with the dead on that floor of the tower (for naebody cared to wake Sir Robert
Redgauntlet like another corpse) he had never daured to answer the call, but that now his conscience
checked him for neglecting his duty; for, 'though death breaks service,' said MacCallum, 'it
shall never break my service to Sir Robert; and I will answer his next whistle, so be you will
stand by me, Hutcheon.'

Hutcheon had nae will to the wark, but he had stood by Dougal in battle and broil, and he wad
not fail him at this pinch; so down the carles sat ower a stoup of brandy, and Hutcheon, who
was something of a clerk, would have read a chapter of the Bible; but Dougal would hear naething
but a blaud of Davie Lindsay, whilk was the waur preparation.

When midnight came, and the house was quiet as the grave, sure enough the silver whistle sounded
as sharp and shrill as if Sir Robert was blowing it, and up got the twa auld serving-men, and
tottered into the room where the dead man lay. Hutcheon saw aneugh at the first glance; for
there were torches in the room, which showed him the foul fiend, in his ain shape, sitting
on the laird's coffin! Ower he cowped as if he had been dead. He could not tell how lang he
lay in a trance at the door, but when he gathered himself, he cried on his neighbour, and getting
nae answer, raised the house, when Dougal was found lying dead within twa steps of the bed
where his master's coffin was placed. As for the whistle, it was gaen anes and ay; but mony
a time was it heard at the top of the house on the bartizan, and amang the auld chimneys and
turrets where the howlets have their nests. Sir John hushed the matter up, and the funeral
passed over without mair bogle-wark.

But when a' was ower, and the laird was beginning to settle his affairs, every tenant was called
up for his arrears, and my gudesire for the full sum that stood against him in the rental-book.
Weel, away he trots to the castle, to tell his story, and there he is introduced to Sir John,
sitting in his father's chair, in deep mourning, with weepers and hanging cravat, and a small
wallring rapier by his side, instead of the auld broadsword that had a hundredweight of steel
about it, what with blade, chape, and basket-hilt. I have heard their communing so often tauld
ower, that I almost think I was there mysell, though I couldna be born at the time. (In fact,
Alan, my companion mimicked, with a good deal of humour, the flattering, conciliating tone
of the tenant's address, and the hypocritical melancholy of the laird's reply. His grandfather,
he said, had, while he spoke, his eye fixed on the rental-book, as if it were a mastiff-dog
that he was afraid would spring up and bite him).

'I wuss ye joy, sir, of the head seat, and the white loaf, and the braid lairdship. Your father
was a kind man to friends and followers; muckle grace to you, Sir John, to fill his shoon--his
boots, I suld say, for he seldom wore shoon, unless it were muils when he had the gout.'

'Aye, Steenie,' quoth the laird, sighing deeply, and putting his napkin to his een, 'his was
a sudden call, and he will be missed in the country; no time to set his house in order--weel
prepared Godward, no doubt, which is the root of the matter--but left us behind a tangled heap
to wind, Steenie.--Hem! hem! We maun go to business, Steenie; much to do, and little time to
do it in.'

Here he opened the fatal volume. I have heard of a thing they call Doomsday Book--I am clear
it has been a rental of back-ganging tenants.

'Stephen,' said Sir John, still in the same soft, sleekit tone of voice--'Stephen Stevenson,
or Steenson, ye are down here for a year's rent behind the hand--due at last term.'

STEPHEN. 'Please your honour, Sir John, I paid it to your father.'

SIR JOHN. 'Ye took a receipt, then, doubtless, Stephen; and can produce it?'

STEPHEN. 'Indeed I hadna time, an it like your honour; for nae sooner had I set doun the siller,
and just as his honour, Sir Robert, that's gaen, drew it till him to count it, and write out
the receipt, he was ta'en wi' the pains that removed him.'

'That was unlucky,' said Sir John, after a pause. 'But ye maybe paid it in the presence of
somebody, I want but a TALIS QUALIS evidence, Stephen. I would go ower strictly to work with
no poor man.'

STEPHEN. 'Troth, Sir John, there was naebody in the room but Dougal MacCallum the butler. But,
as your honour kens, he has e'en followed his auld master.

'Very unlucky again, Stephen,' said Sir John, without altering his voice a single note. 'The
man to whom ye paid the money is dead--and the man who witnessed the payment is dead too--and
the siller, which should have been to the fore, is neither seen nor heard tell of in the repositories.
How am I to believe a' this?'

STEPHEN. 'I dinna, ken, your honour; but there is a bit memorandum note of the very coins;
for, God help me! I had to borrow out of twenty purses; and I am sure that ilka man there set
down will take his grit oath for what purpose I borrowed the money.'

SIR JOHN. 'I have little doubt ye BORROWED the money, Steenie. It is the PAYMENT to my father
that I want to have some proof of.'

STEPHEN. 'The siller maun be about the house, Sir John. And since your honour never got it,
and his honour that was canna have taen it wi' him, maybe some of the family may have seen it.'

SIR JOHN. 'We will examine the servants, Stephen; that is but reasonable.'

But lackey and lass, and page and groom, all denied stoutly that they had ever seen such a
bag of money as my gudesire described. What was waur, he had unluckily not mentioned to any
living soul of them his purpose of paying his rent. Ae quean had noticed something under his
arm, but she took it for the pipes.

Sir John Redgauntlet ordered the servants out of the room, and then said to my gudesire, 'Now,
Steenie, ye see ye have fair play; and, as I have little doubt ye ken better where to find
the siller than ony other body, I beg, in fair terms, and for your own sake, that you will
end this fasherie; for, Stephen, ye maun pay or flit.'

'The Lord forgie your opinion,' said Stephen, driven almost to his wit's end--'I am an honest man.'

'So am I, Stephen,' said his honour; 'and so are all the folks in the house, I hope. But if
there be a knave amongst us, it must be he that tells the story he cannot prove.' He paused,
and then added, mair sternly, 'If I understand your trick, sir, you want to take advantage
of some malicious reports concerning things in this family, and particularly respecting my
father's sudden death, thereby to cheat me out of the money, and perhaps take away my character,
by insinuating that I have received the rent I am demanding. Where do you suppose this money
to be? I insist upon knowing.'

My gudesire saw everything look so muckle against him, that he grew nearly desperate--however,
he shifted from one foot to another, looked to every corner of the room, and made no answer.

'Speak out, sirrah,' said the laird, assuming a look of his father's, a very particular ane,
which he had when he was angry--it seemed as if the wrinkles of his frown made that selfsame
fearful shape of a horse's shoe in the middle of his brow;--'Speak out, sir! I WILL know your
thoughts;--do you suppose that I have this money?'

'Far be it frae me to say so,' said Stephen.

'Do you charge any of my people with having taken it?'

'I wad be laith to charge them that may be innocent,' said my gudesire; 'and if there be any
one that is guilty, I have nae proof.'

'Somewhere the money must be, if there is a word of truth in your story,' said Sir John; 'I
ask where you think it is--and demand a correct answer?'

'In HELL, if you will have my thoughts of it,' said my gudesire, driven to extremity, 'in hell!
with your father, his jackanape, and his silver whistle.'

Down the stairs he ran (for the parlour was nae place for him after such a word) and he heard
the laird swearing blood and wounds behind him, as fast; as ever did Sir Robert, and roaring
for the bailie and the baron-officer.

Away rode my gudesire to his chief creditor (him they ca'd Laurie Lapraik) to try if he could
make onything out of him; but when he tauld his story, he got but the worst word in his wame--thief,
beggar, and dyvour, were the saftest terms; and to the boot of these hard terms, Laurie brought
up the auld story of his dipping his hand in the blood of God's saunts, just as if a tenant
could have helped riding with the laird, and that a laird like Sir Robert Redgauntlet. My gudesire
was, by this time, far beyond the bounds of patience, and, while he and Laurie were at deil
speed the liars, he was wanchancie aneugh to abuse Lapraik's doctrine as weel as the man, ond
said things that garr'd folks' flesh grue that heard them;--he wasna just himsell, and he had
lived wi' a wild set in his day.

At last they parted, and my gudesire was to ride hame through the wood of Pitmurkie, that is
a' fou of black firs, as they say.--I ken the wood, but the firs may be black or white for
what I can tell.--At the entry of the wood there is a wild common, and on the edge of the common,
a little lonely change-house, that was keepit then by an ostler-wife, they suld hae caa'd her
Tibbie Faw, and there puir Steenie cried for a mutchkin of brandy, for he had had no refreshment
the haill day. Tibbie was earnest wi' him to take a bite of meat, but he couldna think o't,
nor would he take his foot out of the stirrup, and took off the brandy wholely at twa draughts,
and named a toast at each:--the first was the memory of Sir Robert Redgauntlet, and might he
never lie quiet in his grave till he had righted his poor bond-tenant; and the second was a
health to Man's Enemy, if he would but get him back the pock of siller or tell him what came
o't, for he saw the haill world was like to regard him as a thief and a cheat, and he took
that waur than even the ruin of his house and hauld.

On he rode, little caring where. It was a dark night turned, and the trees made it yet darker,
and he let the beast take its ain road through the wood; when all of a sudden, from tired and
wearied that it was before, the nag began to spring and flee, and stend, that my gudesire could
hardly keep the saddle. Upon the whilk, a horseman, suddenly riding up beside him, said, 'That's
a mettle beast of yours, freend; will you sell him?' So saying, he touched the horse's neck
with his riding-wand, and it fell into its auld heigh-ho of a stumbling trot. 'But his spunk's
soon out of him, I think,' continued the stranger, 'and that is like mony a man's courage,
that thinks he wad do great things till he come to the proof.'

My gudesire scarce listened to this, but spurred his horse, with 'Gude e'en to you, freend.'

But it's like the stranger was ane that doesna lightly yield his point; for, ride as Steenie
liked, he was ay beside him at the selfsame pace. At last my gudesire, Steenie Steenson, grew
half angry, and, to say the truth, half feared.

'What is it that ye want with me, freend?' he said. 'If ye be a robber, I have nae money; if
ye be a leal man, wanting company, I have nae heart to mirth or speaking; and if ye want to
ken the road, I scarce ken it mysell.'

'If you will tell me your grief,' said the stranger, 'I am one that, though I have been sair
miscaa'd in the world, am the only hand for helping my freends.'

So my gudesire, to ease his ain heart, mair than from any hope of help, told him the story
from beginning to end.

'It's a hard pinch,' said the stranger; 'but I think I can help you.'

'If you could lend the money, sir, and take a lang day--I ken nae other help on earth,' said
my gudesire.

'But there may be some under the earth,' said the stranger. 'Come, I'll be frank wi' you; I
could lend you the money on bond, but you would maybe scruple my terms. Now, I can tell you,
that your auld laird is disturbed in his grave by your curses, and the wailing of your family,
and if ye daur venture to go to see him, he will give you the receipt.'

My gudesire's hair stood on end at this proposal, but he thought his companion might be some
humoursome chield that was trying to frighten him, and might end with lending him the money.
Besides, he was bauld wi' brandy, and desperate wi' distress; and he said he had courage to
go to the gate of hell, and a step farther, for that receipt. The stranger laughed.

Weel, they rode on through the thickest of the wood, when, all of a sudden, the horse stopped
at the door of a great house; and, but that he knew the place was ten miles off, my father
would have thought he was at Redgauntlet Castle. They lap off, and my gudesire, as seemed to
him, fastened his horse to the very ring he had tied him to that morning, when he gaed to wait
on the young Sir John.

'God!' said my gudesire, 'if Sir Robert's death be but a dream!'

He knocked at the ha' door just as he was wont, and his auld acquaintance, Dougal MacCallum--just
after his wont, too,--came to open the door, and said, 'Piper Steenie, are ye there, lad? Sir
Robert has been crying for you.'

My gudesire was like a man in a dream--he looked for the stranger, but he was gane for the
time. At last he just tried to say, 'Ha! Dougal Driveower, are ye living? I thought ye had
been dead.'

'Never fash yoursell wi' me,' said Dougal, 'but look to yoursell; and see ye tak naethlng frae
ony body here, neither meat, drink, or siller, except just the receipt that is your ain.'

So saying, he led the way out through halls and trances that were weel kend to my gudesire,
and into the auld oak parlour; and there was as much singing of profane sangs, and birling
of red wine, and speaking blasphemy and sculduddry, as had ever been in Redgauntlet Castle
when it was at the blithest.

But, Lord take us in keeping, what a set of ghastly revellers they were that sat around that
table! My gudesire kend mony that had long before gane to their place, for often had he piped
to the most part in the hall of Redgauntlet. There was the fierce Middleton, and the dissolute
Rothes, and the crafty Lauderdale; and Dalyell, with his bald head and a beard to his girdle;
and Earlshall, with Cameron's blude on his hand; and wild Bonshaw, that tied blessed Mr. Cargill's
limbs till the blude sprung; and Dunbarton Douglas, the twice-turned traitor baith to country
and king. There was the Bluidy Advocate MacKenyie, who, for his worldly wit and wisdom had
been to the rest as a god. And there was Claverhouse, as beautiful as when he lived, with his
long, dark, curled locks streaming down over his laced buff-coat, and his left hand always
on his right spule-blade, to hide the wound that the silver bullet had made. [See Note 2.]
He sat apart from them all, and looked at them with a melancholy, haughty countenance; while
the rest hallooed, and sang, and laughed, that the room rang. But their smiles were fearfully
contorted from time to time; and their laugh passed into such wild sounds as made my gudesire's
very nails grow blue, and chilled the marrow in his banes.

They that waited at the table were just the wicked serving-men and troopers, that had done
their work and cruel bidding on earth. There was the Lang Lad of the Nethertown, that helped
to take Argyle; and the bishop's summoner, that they called the Deil's Rattle-bag; and the
wicked guardsmen in their laced coats; and the savage Highland Amorites, that shed blood like
water; and many a proud serving-man, haughty of heart and bloody of hand, cringing to the rich,
and making them wickeder than they would be; grinding the poor to powder, when the rich had
broken them to fragments. And mony, mony mair were coming and ganging, a' as busy in their
vocation as if they had been alive.

Sir Robert Redgauntlet, in the midst of a' this fearful riot, cried, wi' a voice like thunder,
on Steenie Piper to come to the board-head where he was sitting; his legs stretched out before
him, and swathed up with flannel, with his holster pistols aside him, while the great broadsword
rested against his chair, just as my gudesire had seen him the last time upon earth--the very
cushion for the jackanape was close to him, but the creature itself was not there--it wasna
its hour, it's likely; for he heard them say as he came forward, 'Is not the major come yet?'
And another answered, 'The jackanape will be here betimes the morn.' And when my gudesire came
forward, Sir Robert, or his ghaist, or the deevil in his likeness, said, 'Weel, piper, hae
ye settled wi' my son for the year's rent?'

With much ado my father gat breath to say that Sir John would not settle without his honour's
receipt.

'Ye shall hae that for a tune of the pipes, Steenie,' said the appearance of Sir Robert--'Play
us up "Weel hoddled, Luckie".'

Now this was a tune my gudesire learned frae a warlock, that heard it when they were worshipping
Satan at their meetings, and my gudesire had sometimes played it at the ranting suppers in
Redgauntlet Castle, but never very willingly; and now he grew cauld at the very name of it,
and said, for excuse, he hadna his pipes wi' him.

'MacCallum, ye limb of Beelzebub,' said the fearfu' Sir Robert, 'bring Steenie the pipes that
I am keeping for him!'

MacCallum brought a pair of pipes might have served the piper of Donald of the Isles. But he
gave my gudesire a nudge as he offered them; and looking secretly and closely, Steenie saw
that the chanter was of steel, and heated to a white heat; so he had fair warning not to trust
his fingers with it. So he excused himself again, and said he was faint and frightened, and
had not wind aneugh to fill the bag.

'Then ye maun eat and drink, Steenie,' said the figure; 'for we do little else here; and it's
ill speaking between a fou man and a fasting.'

Now these were the very words that the bloody Earl of Douglas said to keep the king's messenger
in hand while he cut the head off MacLellan of Bombie, at the Threave Castle, [The reader is
referred for particulars to Pitscottie's HISTORY OF SCOTLAND.] and that put Steenie mair and
mair on his guard. So he spoke up like a man, and said he came neither to eat, or drink or
make minstrelsy; but simply for his ain--to ken what was come o' the money he had paid, and
to get a discharge for it; and he was so stout-hearted by this time that he charged Sir Robert
for conscience-sake (he had no power to say the holy name) and as he hoped for peace and rest,
to spread no snares for him, but just to give him his ain.

The appearance gnashed its teeth and laughed, but it took from a large pocket-book the receipt,
and handed it to Steenie. 'There is your receipt, ye pitiful cur; and for the money, my dog-whelp
of a son may go look for it in the Cat's Cradle.'

My gudesire uttered mony thanks, and was about to retire when Sir Robert roared aloud, 'Stop,
though, thou sack-doudling son of a whore! I am not done with thee. HERE we do nothing for
nothing; and you must return on this very day twelvemonth, to pay your master the homage that
you owe me for my protection.'

My father's tongue was loosed of a suddenty, and he said aloud, 'I refer mysell to God's pleasure,
and not to yours.'

He had no sooner uttered the word than all was dark around him; and he sank on the earth with
such a sudden shock, that he lost both breath and sense.

How lang Steenie lay there, he could not tell; but when he came to himsell, he was lying in
the auld kirkyard of Redgauntlet parochine just at the door of the family aisle, and the scutcheon
of the auld knight, Sir Robert, hanging over his head. There was a deep morning fog on grass
and gravestane around him, and his horse was feeding quietly beside the minister's twa cows.
Steenie would have thought the whole was a dream, but he had the receipt in his hand, fairly
written and signed by the auld laird; only the last letters of his name were a little disorderly,
written like one seized with sudden pain.

Sorely troubled in his mind, he left that dreary place, rode through the mist to Redgauntlet
Castle, and with much ado he got speech of the laird.

'Well, you dyvour bankrupt,' was the first word, 'have you brought me my rent?'

'No,' answered my gudesire, 'I have not; but I have brought your honour Sir Robert's receipt
for it.'

'Wow, sirrah? Sir Robert's receipt! You told me he had not given you one.'

'Will your honour please to see if that bit line is right?'

Sir John looked at every line, and at every letter, with much attention; and at last, at the
date, which my gudesire had not observed,--'FROM MY APPOINTED PLACE,' he read, 'THIS TWENTY-FIFTH
OF NOVEMBER.'--'What! That is yesterday!--Villain, thou must have gone to hell for this!'

'I got it from your honour's father--whether he be in heaven or hell, I know not,' said Steenie.

'I will delate you for a warlock to the Privy Council!' said Sir John. 'I will send you to
your master, the devil, with the help of a tar-barrel and a torch!'

'I intend to delate mysell to the Presbytery,' said Steenie, 'and tell them all I have seen
last night, whilk are things fitter for them to judge of than a borrel man like me.'

Sir John paused, composed himsell, and desired to hear the full history; and my gudesire told
it him from point to point, as I have told it you--word for word, neither more nor less.

Sir John was silent again for a long time, and at last he said, very composedly, 'Steenie,
this story of yours concerns the honour of many a noble family besides mine; and if it be a
leasing-making, to keep yourself out of my danger, the least you can expect is to have a redhot
iron driven through your tongue, and that will be as bad as scauding your fingers wi' a redhot
chanter. But yet it may be true, Steenie; and if the money cast up I shall not know what to
think of it. But where shall we find the Cat's Cradle? There are cats enough about the old
house, but I think they kitten without the ceremony of bed or cradle.'

'We were best ask Hutcheon,' said my gudesire; 'he kens a' the odd corners about as weel as--another
serving-man that is now gane, and that I wad not like to name.'

Aweel, Hutcheon, when he was asked, told them, that a ruinous turret, lang disused, next to
the clock-house, only accessible by a ladder, for the opening was on the outside, and far above
the battlements, was called of old the Cat's Cradle.

'There will I go immediately,' said Sir John; and he took (with what purpose, Heaven kens)
one of his father's pistols from the hall-table, where they had lain since the night he died,
and hastened to the battlements.

It was a dangerous place to climb, for the ladder was auld and frail, and wanted ane or twa
rounds. However, up got Sir John, and entered at the turret-door, where his body stopped the
only little light that was in the bit turret. Something flees at him wi' a vengeance, maist
dang him back ower--bang gaed the knight's pistol, and Hutcheon, that held the ladder, and
my gudesire that stood beside him, hears a loud skelloch. A minute after, Sir John flings the
body of the jackanape down to them, and cries that the siller is fund, and that they should
come up and help him. And there was the bag of siller sure aneugh, and mony orra thing besides,
that had been missing for mony a day. And Sir John, when he had riped the turret weel, led
my gudesire into the dining-parlour, and took him by the hand and spoke kindly to him, and
said he was sorry he should have doubted his word and that he would hereafter be a good master
to him to make amends.

'And now, Steenie,' said Sir John, 'although this vision of yours tend, on the whole, to my
father's credit, as an honest man, that he should, even after his death, desire to see justice
done to a poor man like you, yet you are sensible that ill-dispositioned men might make bad
constructions upon it, concerning his soul's health. So, I think, we had better lay the haill
dirdum on that ill-deedie creature, Major Weir, and say naething about your dream in the wood
of Pitmurkie. You had taken ower muckle brandy to be very certain about onything; and, Steenie,
this receipt' (his hand shook while he held it out),--'it's but a queer kind of document, and
we will do best, I think, to put it quietly in the fire.'

'Od, but for as queer as it is, it's a' the voucher I have for my rent,' said my gudesire,
who was afraid, it may be, of losing the benefit of Sir Robert's discharge.

'I will bear the contents to your credit in the rental-book, and give you a discharge under
my own hand,' said Sir John, 'and that on the spot. And, Steenie, if you can hold your tongue
about this matter, you shall sit, from this term downward, at an easier rent.'

'Mony thanks to your honour,' said Steenie, who saw easily in what corner the wind was; 'doubtless
I will be comformable to all your honour's commands; only I would willingly speak wi' some
powerful minister on the subject, for I do not like the sort of sommons of appointment whilk
your honour's father'--

'Do not call the phantom my father!' said Sir John, interrupting him.

'Weel, then, the thing that was so like him,' said my gudesire; 'he spoke of my coming back
to see him this time twelvemonth, and it's a weight on my conscience.'

'Aweel, then,' said Sir John, 'if you be so much distressed in mind, you may speak to our minister
of the parish; he is a douce man, regards the honour of our family, and the mair that he may
look for some patronage from me.'

Wi' that, my father readily agreed that the receipt should be burnt, and the laird threw it
into the chimney with his ain hand. Burn it would not for them, though; but away it flew up
the lum, wi' a lang train of sparks at its tail, and a hissing noise like a squib.

My gudesire gaed down to the Manse, and the minister, when he had heard the story, said it
was his real opinion that though my gudesire had gaen very far in tampering with dangerous
matters, yet, as he had refused the devil's arles (for such was the offer of meat and drink)
and had refused to do homage by piping at his bidding, he hoped, that if he held a circumspect
walk hereafter, Satan could take little advantage by what was come and gane. And, indeed, my
gudesire, of his ain accord, lang foreswore baith the pipes and the brandy--it was not even
till the year was out, and the fatal day past, that he would so much as take the fiddle, or
drink usquebaugh or tippeny.

Sir John made up his story about the jackanape as he liked himsell; and some believe till this
day there was no more in the matter than the filching nature of the brute. Indeed, ye'll no
hinder some to threap that it was nane o' the auld Enemy that Dougal and my gudesire saw in
the laird's room, but only that wanchancy creature, the major, capering on the coffin; and
that, as to the blawing on the laird's whistle that was heard after he was dead, the filthy
brute could do that as weel as the laird himsell, if no better. But Heaven kens the truth,
whilk first came out by the minister's wife, after Sir John and her ain gudeman were baith
in the moulds. And then my gudesire, wha was failed in his limbs, but not in his judgement
or memory--at least nothing to speak of--was obliged to tell the real narrative to his friends,
for the credit of his good name. He might else have been charged for a warlock. [See Note 3.]

The shades of evening were growing thicker around us as my conductor finished his long narrative
with this moral--'Ye see, birkie, it is nae chancy thing to tak a stranger traveller for a
guide, when you are in an uncouth land.'

'I should not have made that inference,' said I. 'Your grandfather's adventure was fortunate
for himself, whom it saved from ruin and distress; and fortunate for his landlord also, whom
it prevented from committing a gross act of injustice.'

'Aye, but they had baith to sup the sauce o't sooner or later,' said Wandering Willie--'what
was fristed wasna forgiven. Sir John died before he was much over three-score; and it was just
like of a moment's illness. And for my gudesire, though he departed in fullness of life, yet
there was my father, a yauld man of forty-five, fell down betwixt the stilts of his pleugh,
and rase never again, and left nae bairn but me, a puir sightless, fatherless, motherless creature,
could neither work nor want. Things gaed weel aneugh at first; for Sir Redwald Redgauntlet,
the only son of Sir John, and the oye of auld Sir Robert, and, waes me! the last of the honourable
house, took the farm aff our hands, and brought me into his household to have care of me. He
liked music, and I had the best teachers baith England and Scotland could gie me. Mony a merry
year was I wi' him; but waes me! he gaed out with other pretty men in the Forty-five--I'll
say nae mair about it--My head never settled weel since I lost him; and if I say another word
about it, deil a bar will I have the heart to play the night.--Look out, my gentle chap,' he
resumed in a different tone, 'ye should see the lights at Brokenburn glen by this time.'

LETTER XII

THE SAME TO THE SAME

  Tam Luter was their minstrel meet,
    Gude Lord as he could lance,
  He play'd sae shrill, and sang sae sweet,
    Till Towsie took a trance.
  Auld Lightfoot there he did forleet,
    And counterfeited France;
  He used himself as man discreet,
    And up took Morrice danse sae loud,
  At Christ's Kirk on the Green that day.
                                     KING JAMES I.

I continue to scribble at length, though the subject may seem somewhat deficient in interest.
Let the grace of the narrative, therefore, and the concern we take in each other's matters,
make amends for its tenuity. We fools of fancy who suffer ourselves, like Malvolio, to be cheated
with our own visions, have, nevertheless, this advantage over the wise ones of the earth, that
we have our whole stock of enjoyments under our own command, and can dish for ourselves an
intellectual banquet with most moderate assistance from external objects. It is, to be sure,
something like the feast which the Barmecide served up to Alnaschar; and we cannot expect to
get fat upon such diet. But then, neither is there repletion nor nausea, which often succeed
the grosser and more material revel. On the whole, I still pray, with the Ode to Castle Building--

  Give me thy hope which sickens not the heart;
    Give me thy wealth which has no wings to fly;
  Give me the bliss thy visions can impart:
    Thy friendship give me, warm in poverty!

And so, despite thy solemn smile and sapient shake of the head, I will go on picking such interest
as I can out of my trivial adventures, even though that interest should be the creation of
my own fancy; nor will I cease to indict on thy devoted eyes the labour of perusing the scrolls
in which I shall record my narrative.

My last broke off as we were on the point of descending into the glen at Brokenburn, by the
dangerous track which I had first travelled EN CROUPE, behind a furious horseman, and was now
again to brave under the precarious guidance of a blind man.

It was now getting dark; but this was no inconvenience to my guide, who moved on, as formerly,
with instinctive security of step, so that we soon reached the bottom, and I could see lights
twinkling in the cottage which had been my place of refuge on a former occasion. It was not
thither, however, that our course was directed. We left the habitation of the laird to the
left, and turning down the brook, soon approached the small hamlet which had been erected at
the mouth of the stream, probably on account of the convenience which it afforded as a harbour
to the fishing-boats. A large, low cottage, full in our front, seemed highly illuminated; for
the light not only glanced from every window and aperture in its frail walls, but was even
visible from rents and fractures in the roof, composed of tarred shingles, repaired in part
by thatch and divot.

While these appearances engaged my attention, that of my companion was attracted by a regular
succession of sounds, like a bouncing on the floor, mixed with a very faint noise of music,
which Willie's acute organs at once recognized and accounted for, while to me it was almost
inaudible. The old man struck the earth with his staff in a violent passion. 'The whoreson
fisher rabble! They have brought another violer upon my walk! They are such smuggling blackguards,
that they must run in their very music; but I'll sort them waur than ony gauger in the country.--Stay--hark--it
's no a fiddle neither--it's the pipe and tabor bastard, Simon of Sowport, frae the Nicol Forest;
but I'll pipe and tabor him!--Let me hae ance my left hand on his cravat, and ye shall see
what my right will do. Come away, chap--come away, gentle chap--nae time to be picking and
waling your steps.' And on he passed with long and determined strides, dragging me along with him.

I was not quite easy in his company; for, now that his minstrel pride was hurt, the man had
changed from the quiet, decorous, I might almost say respectable person, which he seemed while
he told his tale, into the appearance of a fierce, brawling, dissolute stroller. So that when
he entered the large hut, where a great number of fishers, with their wives and daughters,
were engaged in eating, drinking, and dancing, I was somewhat afraid that the impatient violence
of my companion might procure us an indifferent reception.

But the universal shout of welcome with which Wandering Willie was received--the hearty congratulations--the
repeated 'Here's t' ye, Willie!'--'Where hae ya been, ye blind deevil?' and the call upon him
to pledge them--above all, the speed with which the obnoxious pipe and tabor were put to silence,
gave the old man such effectual assurance of undiminished popularity and importance, as at
once put his jealousy to rest, and changed his tone of offended dignity into one better fitted
to receive such cordial greetings. Young men and women crowded round, to tell how much they
were afraid some mischance had detained him, and how two or three young fellows had set out
in quest of him.

'It was nae mischance, praised be Heaven,' said Willie, 'but the absence of the lazy loon Rob
the Rambler, my comrade, that didna come to meet me on the Links; but I hae gotten a braw consort
in his stead, worth a dozen of him, the unhanged blackguard.'

'And wha is't tou's gotten, Wullie, lad?' said half a score of voices, while all eyes were
turned on your humble servant, who kept the best countenance he could, though not quite easy
at becoming the centre to which all eyes were pointed.

'I ken him by his hemmed cravat,' said one fellow; 'it's Gil Hobson, the souple tailor frae
Burgh. Ye are welcome to Scotland, ye prick-the-clout loon,' he said, thrusting forth a paw;
much the colour of a badger's back, and of most portentous dimensions.

'Gil Hobson? Gil whoreson!' exclaimed Wandering Willie; 'it's a gentle chap that I judge to
be an apprentice wi' auld Joshua Geddes, to the quaker-trade.'

'What trade be's that, man?' said he of the badger-coloured fist.

'Canting and lying,'--said Willie, which produced a thundering laugh; 'but I am teaching the
callant a better trade, and that is, feasting and fiddling.'

Willie's conduct in thus announcing something like my real character, was contrary to compact;
and yet I was rather glad he did so, for the consequence of putting a trick upon these rude
and ferocious men, might, in case of discovery, have been dangerous to us both, and I was at
the same time delivered from the painful effort to support a fictitious character. The good
company, except perhaps one or two of the young women whose looks expressed some desire for
better acquaintance, gave themselves no further trouble about me; but, while the seniors resumed
their places near an immense bowl or rather reeking cauldron of brandy-punch, the younger arranged
themselves on the floor and called loudly on Willie to strike up.

With a brief caution to me, to 'mind my credit, for fishers have ears, though fish have none,'
Willie led off in capital style, and I followed, certainly not so as to disgrace my companion,
who, every now and then, gave me a nod of approbation. The dances were, of course, the Scottish
jigs, and reels, and 'twasome dances', with a strathspey or hornpipe for interlude; and the
want of grace on the part of the performers was amply supplied by truth of ear, vigour and
decision of step, and the agility proper to the northern performers. My own spirits rose with
the mirth around me, and with old Willie's admirable execution, and frequent 'weel dune, gentle
chap, yet;'--and, to confess the truth, I felt a great deal more pleasure in this rustic revel,
than I have done at the more formal balls and concerts in your famed city, to which I have
sometimes made my way. Perhaps this was because I was a person of more importance to the presiding
matron of Brokenburn-foot, than I had the means of rendering myself to the far-famed Miss Nickie
Murray, the patroness of your Edinburgh assemblies. The person I mean was a buxom dame of about
thirty, her fingers loaded with many a silver ring, and three or four of gold; her ankles liberally
displayed from under her numerous blue, white, and scarlet; short petticoats, and attired in
hose of the finest and whitest lamb's-wool, which arose from shoes of Spanish cordwain, fastened
with silver buckles. She took the lead in my favour, and declared, 'that the brave young gentleman
should not weary himself to death wi' playing, but take the floor for a dance or twa.'

'And what's to come of me, Dame Martin?' said Willie.

'Come o' thee?' said the dame; 'mishanter on the auld beard o' ye! ye could play for twenty
hours on end, and tire out the haill countryside wi' dancing before ye laid down your bow,
saving for a by-drink or the like o' that.'

'In troth, dame,' answered Willie, 'ye are no sae far wrang; sae if my comrade is to take his
dance, ye maun gie me my drink, and then bob it away like Madge of Middlebie.'

The drink was soon brought; but while Willie was partaking of it, a party entered the hut,
which arrested my attention at once, and intercepted the intended gallantry with which I had
proposed to present my hand to the fresh-coloured, well-made, white-ankled Thetis, who had
obtained me manumission from my musical task.

This was nothing less than the sudden appearance of the old woman whom the laird had termed
Mabel; Cristal Nixon, his male attendant; and the young person who had said grace to us when
I supped with him.

This young person--Alan, thou art in thy way a bit of a conjurer--this young person whom I
DID NOT describe, and whom you, for that very reason, suspected was not an indifferent object
to me--is, I am sorry to say it, in very fact not so much so as in prudence she ought. I will
not use the name of love on this occasion; for I have applied it too often to transient whims
and fancies to escape your satire, should I venture to apply it now. For it is a phrase, I
must confess, which I have used--a romancer would say, profaned--a little too often, considering
how few years have passed over my head. But seriously, the fair chaplain of Brokenburn has
been often in my head when she had no business there; and if this can give thee any clue for
explaining my motives in lingering about the country, and assuming the character of Willie's
companion, why, hang thee, thou art welcome to make use of it--a permission for which thou
need'st not thank me much, as thou wouldst not have failed to assume it whether it were given
or no.

Such being my feelings, conceive how they must have been excited, when, like a beam upon a
cloud, I saw this uncommonly beautiful girl enter the apartment in which they were dancing;
not, however, with the air of an equal, but that of a superior, come to grace with her presence
the festival of her dependants. The old man and woman attended, with looks as sinister as hers
were lovely, like two of the worst winter months waiting upon the bright-eyed May.

When she entered--wonder if thou wilt--she wore A GREEN MANTLE, such as thou hast described
as the garb of thy fair client, and confirmed what I had partly guessed from thy personal description,
that my chaplain and thy visitor were the same person. There was an alteration on her brow
the instant she recognized me. She gave her cloak to her female attendant, and, after a momentary
hesitation, as if uncertain whether to advance or retire, she walked into the room with dignity
and composure, all making way, the men unbonneting, and the women curtsying respectfully, as
she assumed a chair which was reverently placed for her accommodation, apart from others.

There was then a pause, until the bustling mistress of the ceremonies, with awkward but kindly
courtesy, offered the young lady a glass of wine, which was at first declined, and at length
only thus far accepted, that, bowing round to the festive company, the fair visitor wished
them all health and mirth, and just touching the brim with her lip, replaced it on the salver.
There was another pause; and I did not immediately recollect, confused as I was by this unexpected
apparition, that it belonged to me to break it. At length a murmur was heard around me, being
expected to exhibit,--nay, to lead down the dance,--in consequence of the previous conversation.

'Deil's in the fiddler lad,' was muttered from more quarters than one--'saw folk ever sic a
thing as a shame-faced fiddler before?'

At length a venerable Triton, seconding his remonstrances with a hearty thump on my shoulder,
cried out, 'To the floor--to the floor, and let us see how ye can fling--the lasses are a'
waiting.'

Up I jumped, sprang from the elevated station which constituted our orchestra, and, arranging
my ideas as rapidly as I could, advanced to the head of the room, and, instead of offering
my hand to the white-footed Thetis aforesaid, I venturously made the same proposal to her of
the Green Mantle.

The nymph's lovely eyes seemed to open with astonishment at the audacity of this offer; and,
from the murmurs I heard around me, I also understood that it surprised, and perhaps offended,
the bystanders. But after the first moment's emotion, she wreathed her neck, and drawing herself
haughtily up, like one who was willing to show that she was sensible of the full extent of
her own condescension, extended her hand towards me, like a princess gracing a squire of low
degree.

There is affectation in all this, thought I to myself, if the Green Mantle has borne true evidence--for
young ladies do not make visits, or write letters to counsel learned in the law, to interfere
in the motions of those whom they hold as cheap as this nymph seems to do me; and if I am cheated
by a resemblance of cloaks, still I am interested to show myself, in some degree, worthy of
the favour she has granted with so much state and reserve. The dance to be performed was the
old Scots Jig, in which you are aware I used to play no sorry figure at La Pique's, when thy
clumsy movements used to be rebuked by raps over the knuckles with that great professor's fiddlestick.
The choice of the tune was left to my comrade Willie, who, having finished his drink, feloniously
struck up the well-known and popular measure,

  Merrily danced the Quaker's wife,
  And merrily danced the Quaker.

An astounding laugh arose at my expense, and I should have been annihilated, but that the smile
which mantled on the lip of my partner, had a different expression from that of ridicule, and
seemed to say, 'Do not take this to heart.' And I did not, Alan--my partner danced admirably,
and I like one who was determined, if outshone, which I could not help, not to be altogether
thrown into the shade.

I assure you our performance, as well as Willie's music, deserved more polished spectators
and auditors; but we could not then have been greeted with such enthusiastic shouts of applause
as attended while I handed my partner to her seat, and took my place by her side, as one who
had a right to offer the attentions usual on such an occasion. She was visibly embarrassed,
but I was determined not to observe her confusion, and to avail myself of the opportunity of
learning whether this beautiful creature's mind was worthy of the casket in which nature had
lodged it.

Nevertheless, however courageously I formed this resolution, you cannot but too well guess
the difficulties I must needs have felt in carrying it into execution; since want of habitual
intercourse with the charmers of the other sex has rendered me a sheepish cur, only one grain
less awkward than thyself. Then she was so very beautiful, and assumed an air of so much dignity,
that I was like to fall under the fatal error of supposing she should only be addressed with
something very clever; and in the hasty raking which my brains underwent in this persuasion,
not a single idea occurred that common sense did not reject as fustian on the one hand, or
weary, flat, and stale triticism on the other. I felt as if my understanding were no longer
my own, but was alternately under the dominion of Aldeborontiphoscophornio, and that of his
facetious friend Rigdum-Funnidos. How did I envy at that moment our friend Jack Oliver, who
produces with such happy complacence his fardel of small talk, and who, as he never doubts
his own powers of affording amusement, passes them current with every pretty woman he approaches,
and fills up the intervals of chat by his complete acquaintance with the exercise of the fan,
the FLACON, and the other duties of the CAVALIERE SERVENTE. Some of these I attempted, but
I suppose it was awkwardly; at least the Lady Green Mantle received them as a princess accepts
the homage of a clown.

Meantime the floor remained empty, and as the mirth of the good meeting was somewhat checked,
I ventured, as a DERNIER RESSORT, to propose a minuet. She thanked me, and told me haughtily
enough, 'she was here to encourage the harmless pleasures of these good folks, but was not
disposed to make an exhibition of her own indifferent dancing for their amusement.'

She paused a moment, as if she expected me to suggest something; and as I remained silent and
rebuked, she bowed her head more graciously, and said, 'Not to affront you, however, a country-dance,
if you please.'

What an ass was I, Alan, not to have anticipated her wishes! Should I not have observed that
the ill-favoured couple, Mabel and Cristal, had placed themselves on each side of her seat,
like the supporters of the royal arms? the man, thick, short, shaggy, and hirsute, as the lion;
the female, skin-dried, tight-laced, long, lean, and hungry-faced, like the unicorn. I ought
to have recollected, that under the close inspection of two such watchful salvages, our communication,
while in repose, could not have been easy; that the period of dancing a minuet was not the
very choicest time for conversation; but that the noise, the exercise, and the mazy confusion
of a country-dance, where the inexperienced performers were every now and then running against
each other, and compelling the other couples to stand still for a minute at a time, besides
the more regular repose afforded by the intervals of the dance itself, gave the best possible
openings for a word or two spoken in season, and without being liable to observation.

We had but just led down, when an opportunity of the kind occurred, and my partner said, with
great gentleness and modesty, 'It is not perhaps very proper in me to acknowledge an acquaintance
that is not claimed; but I believe I speak to Mr. Darsie Latimer?'

'Darsie Latimer was indeed the person that had now the honour and happiness'--

I would have gone on in the false gallop of compliment, but she cut me short. 'And why,' she
said, 'is Mr. Latimer here, and in disguise, or at least assuming an office unworthy of a man
of education?--I beg pardon,' she continued,--'I would not give you pain, but surely making,
an associate of a person of that description'--

She looked towards my friend Willie, and was silent. I felt heartily ashamed of myself, and
hastened to say it was an idle frolic, which want of occupation had suggested, and which I
could not regret, since it had procured me the pleasure I at present enjoyed.

Without seeming to notice my compliment, she took the next opportunity to say, 'Will Mr. Latimer
permit a stranger who wishes him well to ask, whether it is right that, at his active age,
he should be in so far void of occupation, as to be ready to adopt low society for the sake
of idle amusement?'

'You are severe, madam,' I answered; 'but I cannot think myself degraded by mixing with any
society where I meet'--

Here I stopped short, conscious that I was giving my answer an unhandsome turn. The ARGUMENTUM
AD HOMINEM, the last to which a polite man has recourse, may, however, be justified by circumstances,
but seldom or never the ARGUMENTUM AD FOEMINAM.

She filled up the blank herself which I had left. 'Where you meet ME, I suppose you would say?
But the case is different. I am, from my unhappy fate, obliged to move by the will of others,
and to be in places which I would by my own will gladly avoid. Besides, I am, except for these
few minutes, no participator of the revels--a spectator only, and attended by my servants.
Your situation is different--you are here by choice, the partaker and minister of the pleasures
of a class below you in education, birth, and fortunes. If I speak harshly, Mr. Latimer,' she
added, with much sweetness of manner, 'I mean kindly.'

I was confounded by her speech, 'severe in youthful wisdom'; all of naive or lively, suitable
to such a dialogue, vanished from my recollection, and I answered with gravity like her own,
'I am, indeed, better educated than these poor people; but you, madam, whose kind admonition
I am grateful for, must know more of my condition than I do myself--I dare not say I am their
superior in birth, since I know nothing of my own, or in fortunes, over which hangs an impenetrable
cloud.'

'And why should your ignorance on these points drive you into low society and idle habits?'
answered my female monitor. 'Is it manly to wait till fortune cast her beams upon you, when
by exertion of your own energy you might distinguish yourself? Do not the pursuits of learning
lie open to you--of manly ambition--of war? But no--not of war, that has already cost you too
dear.'

'I will be what you wish me to be,' I replied with eagerness--'You have but to choose my path,
and you shall see if I do not pursue it with energy, were it only because you command me.'

'Not because I command you,' said the maiden, 'but because reason, common sense, manhood, and,
in one word, regard for your own safety, give the same counsel.'

'At least permit me to reply, that reason and sense never assumed a fairer form--of persuasion,'
I hastily added; for she turned from me--nor did she give me another opportunity of continuing
what I had to say till the next pause of the dance, when, determined to bring our dialogue
to a point, I said, 'You mentioned manhood also, and in the same breath, personal danger. My
ideas of manhood suggest that it is cowardice to retreat before dangers of a doubtful character.
You, who appear to know so much of my fortunes that I might call you my guardian angel, tell
me what these dangers are, that I may judge whether manhood calls on me to face or to fly them.'

She was evidently perplexed by this appeal.

'You make me pay dearly for acting as your humane adviser,' she replied at last: 'I acknowledge
an interest in your fate, and yet I dare not tell you whence it arises; neither am I at liberty
to say why, or from whom, you are in danger; but it is not less true that danger is near and
imminent. Ask me no more, but, for your own sake, begone from this country. Elsewhere you are
safe--here you do but invite your fate.'

'But am I doomed to bid thus farewell to almost the only human being who has showed an interest
in my welfare? Do not say so--say that we shall meet again, and the hope shall be the leading
star to regulate my course!'

'It is more than probable,' she said--'much more than probable, that we may never meet again.
The help which I now render you is all that may be in my power; it is such as I should render
to a blind man whom I might observe approaching the verge of a precipice; it ought to excite
no surprise, and requires no gratitude.'

So saying, she again turned from me, nor did she address me until the dance was on the point
of ending, when she said, 'Do not attempt to speak to or approach me again in the course of
the night; leave the company as soon as you can, but not abruptly, and God be with you.'

I handed her to her seat, and did not quit the fair palm I held, without expressing my feelings
by a gentle pressure. She coloured slightly, and withdrew her hand, but not angrily. Seeing
the eyes of Cristal and Mabel sternly fixed on me, I bowed deeply, and withdrew from her; my
heart saddening, and my eyes becoming dim in spite of me, as the shifting crowd hid us from
each other.

It was my intention to have crept back to my comrade Willie, and resumed my bow with such spirit
as I might, although, at the moment, I would have given half my income for an instant's solitude.
But my retreat was cut off by Dame Martin, with the frankness--if it is not an inconsistent
phrase-of rustic coquetry, that goes straight up to the point.

'Aye, lad, ye seem unco sune weary, to dance sae lightly? Better the nag that ambles a' the
day, than him that makes a brattle for a mile, and then's dune wi' the road.'

This was a fair challenge, and I could not decline accepting it. Besides, I could see Dame
Martin was queen of the revels; and so many were the rude and singular figures about me, that
I was by no means certain whether I might not need some protection. I seized on her willing
hand, and we took our places in the dance, where, if I did not acquit myself with all the accuracy
of step and movement which I had before attempted, I at least came up to the expectations of
my partner, who said, and almost swore, 'I was prime at it;' while, stimulated to her utmost
exertions, she herself frisked like a kid, snapped her fingers like castanets, whooped like
a Bacchanal, and bounded from the floor like a tennis-ball,--aye, till the colour of her garters
was no particular mystery. She made the less secret of this, perhaps, that they were sky-blue,
and fringed with silver.

The time has been that this would have been special fun; or rather, last night was the only
time I can recollect these four years when it would not have been so; yet, at this moment,
I cannot tell you how I longed to be rid of Dame Martin. I almost wished she would sprain one
of those 'many-twinkling' ankles, which served her so alertly; and when, in the midst of her
exuberant caprioling, I saw my former partner leaving the apartment, and with eyes, as I thought,
turning towards me, this unwillingness to carry on the dance increased to such a point, that
I was almost about to feign a sprain or a dislocation myself, in order to put an end to the
performance. But there were around me scores of old women, all of whom looked as if they might
have some sovereign recipe for such an accident; and, remembering Gil Blas, and his pretended
disorder in the robber's cavern, I thought it as wise to play Dame Martin fair, and dance till
she thought proper to dismiss me. What I did I resolved to do strenuously, and in the latter
part of the exhibition I cut and sprang from the floor as high and as perpendicularly as Dame
Martin herself; and received, I promise you, thunders of applause, for the common people always
prefer exertion and agility to grace. At length Dame Martin could dance no more, and, rejoicing
at my release, I led her to a seat, and took the privilege of a partner to attend her.

'Hegh, sirs,' exclaimed Dame Martin, 'I am sair forfoughen! Troth! callant, I think ye hae
been amaist the death o' me.'

I could only atone for the alleged offence by fetching her some refreshment, of which she readily
partook.

'I have been lucky in my partners,' I said, 'first that pretty young lady, and then you, Mrs.
Martin.'

'Hout wi' your fleeching,' said Dame Martin. 'Gae wa--gae wa, lad; dinna blaw in folk's lugs
that gate; me and Miss Lilias even'd thegither! Na, na, lad--od, she is maybe four or five
years younger than the like o' me,--bye and attour her gentle havings.'

'She is the laird's daughter?' said I, in as careless a tone of inquiry as I could assume.

'His daughter, man? Na, na, only his niece--and sib aneugh to him, I think.'

'Aye, indeed,' I replied; 'I thought she had borne his name?'

'She bears her ain name, and that's Lilias.'

'And has she no other name?' asked I.

'What needs she another till she gets a gudeman?' answered my Thetis, a little miffed perhaps--to
use the women's phrase--that I turned the conversation upon my former partner, rather than
addressed it to herself.

There was a little pause, which was interrupted by Dame Martin observing, 'They are standing
up again.'

'True,' said I, having no mind to renew my late violent CAPRIOLE, and I must go help old Willie.'

Ere I could extricate myself, I heard poor Thetis address herself to a sort of merman in a
jacket of seaman's blue, and a pair of trousers (whose hand, by the way, she had rejected at
an earlier part of the evening) and intimate that she was now disposed to take a trip.

'Trip away, then, dearie,' said the vindictive man of the waters, without offering his hand;
'there,' pointing to the floor, 'is a roomy berth for you.'

Certain I had made one enemy, and perhaps two, I hastened to my original seat beside Willie,
and began to handle my bow. But I could see that my conduct had made an unfavourable impression;
the words, 'flory conceited chap,'--'hafflins gentle,' and at length, the still more alarming
epithet of 'spy,' began to be buzzed about, and I was heartily glad when the apparition of
Sam's visage at the door, who was already possessed of and draining a can of punch, gave me
assurance that my means of retreat were at hand. I intimated as much to Willie, who probably
had heard more of the murmurs of the company than I had, for he whispered, 'Aye, aye,--awa
wi' ye--ower lang here--slide out canny--dinna let them see ye are on the tramp.'

I slipped half a guinea into the old man's hand, who answered, 'Truts pruts! nonsense but I
'se no refuse, trusting ye can afford it. Awa wi' ye--and if ony body stops ye, cry on me.'

I glided, by his advice, along the room as if looking for a partner, joined Sam, whom I disengaged
with some difficulty from his can, and we left the cottage together in a manner to attract
the least possible observation. The horses were tied in a neighbouring shed, and as the moon
was up, and I was now familiar with the road, broken and complicated as it is, we soon reached
the Shepherd's Bush, where the old landlady was sitting up waiting for us, under some anxiety
of mind, to account for which she did not hesitate to tell me that some folks had gone to Brokenburn
from her house, or neighbouring towns, that did not come so safe back again. 'Wandering Willie,'
she said, 'was doubtless a kind of protection.'

Here Willie's wife, who was smoking in the chimney corner, took up the praises of her 'hinnie,'
as she called him, and endeavoured to awaken my generosity afresh, by describing the dangers
from which, as she was pleased to allege, her husband's countenance had assuredly been the
means of preserving me. I was not, however, to be fooled out of more money at this time, and
went to bed in haste, full of vanous cogitations.

I have since spent a couple of days betwixt Mount Sharon and this place, and betwixt reading,
writing to thee this momentous history, forming plans for seeing the lovely Lilias, and--partly,
I think, for the sake of contradiction--angling a little in spite of Joshua'a scruples--though
I am rather liking the amusement better as I begin to have some success in it.

And now, my dearest Alan, you are in full possession of my secret--let me as frankly into the
recesses of your bosom. How do you feel towards this fair ignis fatuus, this lily of the desert?
Tell me honestly; for however the recollection of her may haunt my own mind, my love for Alan
Fairford surpasses the love of woman, I know, too, that when you DO love, it will be to

  Love once and love no more.

A deep-consuming passion, once kindled in a breast so steady as yours, would never be extinguished
but with life. I am of another and more volatile temper, and though I shall open your next
with a trembling hand and uncertain heart, yet let it bring a frank confession that this fair
unknown has made a deeper impression on your gravity than you reckoned for, and you will see
I can tear the arrow from my own wound, barb and all. In the meantime, though I have formed
schemes once more to see her, I will, you may rely on it, take no step for putting them into
practice. I have refrained from this hitherto, and I give you my word of honour, I shall continue
to do so; yet why should you need any further assurance from one who is so entirely yours as D.L.

PS.--I shall be on thorns till I receive your answer. I read, and re-read your letter, and
cannot for my soul discover what your real sentiments are. Sometimes I think you write of her
as one in jest--and sometimes I think that cannot be. Put me at ease as soon as possible.

LETTER XIII

ALAN FAIRFORD TO DARSIE LATIMER

I write on the instant, as you direct; and in a tragi-comic humour, for I have a tear in my
eye and a smile on my cheek. Dearest Darsie, sure never a being but yourself could be so generous--sure
never a being but yourself could be so absurd! I remember when you were a boy you wished to
make your fine new whip a present to old Aunt Peggy, merely because she admired it; and now,
with like unreflecting and inappropriate liberality, you would resign your beloved to a smoke-dried
young sophister, who cares not one of the hairs which it is his occupation to split, for all
the daughters of Eve. I in love with your Lilias--your Green Mantle--your unknown enchantress!--why
I scarce saw her for five minutes, and even then only the tip of her chin was distinctly visible.
She was well made, and the tip of her chin was of a most promising cast for the rest of the
face; but, Heaven save you! she came upon business! and for a lawyer to fall in love with a
pretty client on a single consultation, would be as wise as if he became enamoured of a particularly
bright sunbeam which chanced for a moment to gild his bar-wig. I give you my word I am heart-whole
and moreover, I assure you, that before I suffer a woman to sit near my heart's core, I must
see her full face, without mask or mantle, aye, and know a good deal of her mind into the bargain.
So never fret yourself on my account, my kind and generous Darsie; but, for your own sake,
have a care and let not an idle attachment, so lightly taken up, lead you into serious danger.

On this subject I feel so apprehensive, that now when I am decorated with the honours of the
gown, I should have abandoned my career at the very starting to come to you, but for my father
having contrived to clog my heels with fetters of a professional nature. I will tell you the
matter at length, for it is comical enough; and why should not you list to my juridical adventures,
as well as I to those of your fiddling knight-errantry?

It was after dinner, and I was considering how I might best introduce to my father the private
resolution I had formed to set off for Dumfriesshire, or whether I had not better run away
at once, and plead my excuse by letter, when, assuming the peculiar look with which he communicates
any of his intentions respecting me, that he suspects may not be altogether acceptable, 'Alan,'
he said, 'ye now wear a gown--ye have opened shop, as we would say of a more mechanical profession;
and, doubtless, ye think the floor of the courts is strewed with guineas, and that ye have
only to stoop down to gather them?'

'I hope I am sensible, sir,' I replied, 'that I have some knowledge and practice to acquire,
and must stoop for that in the first place.'

'It is well said,' answered my father; and, always afraid to give too much encouragement, added,
'Very well said, if it be well acted up to--Stoop to get knowledge and practice is the very
word. Ye know very well, Alan, that in the other faculty who study the ARS MEDENDI, before
the young doctor gets to the bedsides of palaces, he must, as they call it, walk the hospitals;
and cure Lazarus of his sores, before he be admitted to prescribe for Dives, when he has gout
or indigestion'--

'I am aware, sir, that'--

'Whisht--do not interrupt the court. Well--also the chirurgeons have a useful practice, by
which they put their apprentices and tyrones to work; upon senseless dead bodies, to which,
as they can do no good, so they certainly can do as little harm; while at the same time the
tyro, or apprentice, gains experience, and becomes fit to whip off a leg or arm from a living
subject, as cleanly as ye would slice an onion.'

'I believe I guess your meaning, sir,' answered I; 'and were it not for a very particular engagement'--

'Do not speak to me of engagements; but whisht--there is a good lad--and do not interrupt the
court.'

My father, you know, is apt--be it said with all filial duty--to be a little prolix in his
harangues. I had nothing for it but to lean back and listen.

'Maybe you think, Alan, because I have, doubtless, the management of some actions in dependence,
whilk my worthy clients have intrusted me with, that I may think of airting them your way INSTANTER;
and so setting you up in practice, so far as my small business or influence may go; and, doubtless,
Alan, that is a day whilk I hope may come round. But then, before I give, as the proverb hath
it, "My own fish-guts to my own sea-maws," I must, for the sake of my own character, be very
sure that my sea-maw can pick them to some purpose. What say ye?'

'I am so far,' answered I, 'from wishing to get early into practice, sir, that I would willingly
bestow a few days'--

'In further study, ye would say, Alan. But that is not the way either--ye must walk the hospitals--ye
must cure Lazarus--ye must cut and carve on a departed subject, to show your skill.'

'I am sure,' I replied, 'I will undertake the cause of any poor man with pleasure, and bestow
as much pains upon it as if it were a duke's; but for the next two or three days'--

'They must be devoted to close study, Alan--very close study indeed; for ye must stand primed
for a hearing, IN PRESENTIA DOMINORUM, upon Tuesday next.'

'I, sir?' I replied in astonishment--'I have not opened my mouth in the Outer House yet!'

'Never mind the court of the Gentiles, man,' said my father; 'we will have you into the Sanctuary
at once--over shoes, over boots.'

'But, sir, I should really spoil any cause thrust on me so hastily.'

'Ye cannot spoil it, Alan,' said my father, rubbing his hands with much complacency; 'that
is the very cream of the business, man--it is just, as I said before, a subject upon whilk
all the TYRONES have been trying their whittles for fifteen years; and as there have been about
ten or a dozen agents concerned, and each took his own way, the case is come to that pass,
that Stair or Amiston could not mend it; and I do not think even you, Alan, can do it much
harm--ye may get credit by it, but ye can lose none.'

'And pray what is the name of my happy client, sir?' said I, ungraciously enough, I believe.

'It is a well-known name in the Parliament House,' replied my father. 'To say the truth, I
expect him every moment; it is Peter Peebles.' [See Note 4.]

'Peter Peebles!' exclaimed I, in astonishment; 'he is an insane beggar--as poor as Job, and
as mad as a March hare!'

'He has been pleaing in the court for fifteen years,' said my father, in a tone of commiseration,
which seemed to acknowledge that this fact was enough to account for the poor man's condition
both in mind and circumstances.

'Besides, sir,' I added, 'he is on the Poor's Roll; and you know there are advocates regularly
appointed to manage those cases; and for me to presume to interfere'--

'Whisht, Alan!--never interrupt the court--all THAT is managed for ye like a tee'd ball' (my
father sometimes draws his similes from his once favourite game of golf); 'you must know, Alan,
that Peter's cause was to have been opened by young Dumtoustie--ye may ken the lad, a son of
Dumtoustie of that ilk, member of Parliament for the county of--, and a nephew of the laird's
younger brother, worthy Lord Bladderskate, whilk ye are aware sounds as like being akin to
a peatship [Formerly, a lawyer, supposed to be under the peculiar patronage of any particular
judge, was invidiously termed his PEAT or PET.] and a sheriffdom, as a sieve is sib to a riddle.
Now, Peter Drudgeit, my lord's clerk, came to me this morning in the House, like ane bereft
of his wits; for it seems that young Dumtoustie is ane of the Poor's lawyers, and Peter Peebles's
process had been remitted to him of course. But so soon as the harebrained goose saw the pokes
[Process-bags.] (as indeed, Alan, they are none of the least) he took fright, called for his
nag, lap on, and away to the country is he gone; and so? said Peter, my lord is at his wit's
end wi' vexation, and shame, to see his nevoy break off the course at the very starting. "I'll
tell you, Peter," said I, "were I my lord, and a friend or kinsman of mine should leave the
town while the court was sitting, that kinsman, or be he what he liked, should never darken
my door again." And then, Alan, I thought to turn the ball our own way; and I said that you
were a gey sharp birkie, just off the irons, and if it would oblige my lord, and so forth,
you would open Peter's cause on Tuesday, and make some handsome apology for the necessary absence
of your learned friend, and the loss which your client and the court had sustained, and so
forth. Peter lap at the proposition like a cock at a grossart; for, he said, the only chance
was to get a new hand, that did not ken the charge he was taking upon him; for there was not
a lad of two sessions' standing that was not dead-sick of Peter Peebles and his cause; and
he advised me to break the matter gently to you at the first; but I told him you were, a good
bairn, Alan, and had no will and pleasure in these matters but mine.'

What could I say, Darsie, in answer to this arrangement, so very well meant--so very vexatious
at the same time? To imitate the defection and flight of young Dumtoustie, was at once to destroy
my father's hopes of me for ever; nay, such is the keenness with which he regards all connected
with his profession, it might have been a step to breaking his heart. I was obliged, therefore,
to bow in sad acquiescence, when my father called to James Wilkinson to bring the two bits
of pokes he would find on his table.

Exit James, and presently re-enters, bending under the load of two huge leathern bags, full
of papers to the brim, and labelled on the greasy backs with the magic impress of the clerks
of court, and the title, PEEBLES AGAINST PLAINSTANES. This huge mass was deposited on the table,
and my father, with no ordinary glee in his countenance, began to draw out; the various bundles
of papers, secured by none of your red tape or whipcord, but stout, substantial casts of tarred
rope, such as might have held small craft at their moorings.

I made a last and desperate effort to get rid of the impending job. 'I am really afraid, sir,
that this case seems so much complicated, and there is so little time to prepare, that we had
better move the court to supersede it till next session.'

'How, sir?--how, Alan?' said my father--'Would you approbate and reprobate, sir? You have accepted
the poor man's cause, and if you have not his fee in your pocket, it is because he has none
to give you; and now would you approbate and reprobate in the same breath of your mouth? Think
of your oath of office, Alan, and your duty to your father, my dear boy.'

Once more, what could I say? I saw from my father's hurried and alarmed manner, that nothing
could vex him so much as failing in the point he had determined to carry, and once more intimated
my readiness to do my best, under every disadvantage.

'Well, well, my boy,' said my father, 'the Lord will make your days long in the land, for the
honour you have given to your father's grey hairs. You may find wiser advisers, Alan, but none
that can wish you better.'

My father, you know, does not usually give way to expressions of affection, and they are interesting
in proportion to their rarity. My eyes began to fill at seeing his glisten; and my delight
at having given him such sensible gratification would have been unmixed but for the thoughts
of you. These out of the question, I could have grappled with the bags, had they been as large
as corn-sacks. But, to turn what was grave into farce, the door opened, and Wilkinson ushered
in Peter Peebles.

You must have seen this original, Darsie, who, like others in the same predicament, continues
to haunt the courts of justice, where he has made shipwreck of time, means, and understanding.
Such insane paupers have sometimes seemed to me to resemble wrecks lying upon the shoals on
the Goodwin Sands, or in Yarmouth Roads, warning other vessels to keep aloof from the banks
on which they have been lost; or rather, such ruined clients are like scarecrows and potato-bogies,
distributed through the courts to scare away fools from the scene of litigation.

The identical Peter wears a huge greatcoat threadbare and patched itself, yet carefully so
disposed and secured by what buttons remain, and many supplementary pins, as to conceal the
still more infirm state of his under garments. The shoes and stockings of a ploughman were,
however, seen to meet at his knees with a pair of brownish, blackish breeches; a rusty-coloured
handkerchief, that has been black in its day, surrounded his throat, and was an apology for
linen. His hair, half grey, half black, escaped in elf-locks around a huge wig, made of tow,
as it seemed to me, and so much shrunk that it stood up on the very top of his head; above
which he plants, when covered, an immense cocked hat, which, like the chieftain's banner in
an ancient battle, may be seen any sederunt day betwixt nine and ten, high towering above all
the fluctuating and changeful scene in the Outer House, where his eccentricities often make
him the centre of a group of petulant and teasing boys, who exercise upon him every art of
ingenious torture. His countenance, originally that of a portly, comely burgess, is now emaciated
with poverty and anxiety, and rendered wild by an insane lightness about the eyes; a withered
and blighted skin and complexion; features begrimed with snuff, charged with the self-importance
peculiar to insanity; and a habit of perpetually speaking to himself. Such was my unfortunate
client; and I must allow, Darsie, that my profession had need to do a great deal of good, if,
as is much to be feared, it brings many individuals to such a pass.

After we had been, with a good deal of form, presented to each other, at which time I easily
saw by my father's manner that he was desirous of supporting Peter's character in my eyes,
as much as circumstances would permit, 'Alan,' he said, 'this is the gentleman who has agreed
to accept of you as his counsel, in place of young Dumtoustie.'

'Entirely out of favour to my old acquaintance your father, said Peter. with a benign and patronizing
countenance, 'out of respect to your father, and my old intimacy with Lord Bladderskate. Otherwise,
by the REGIAM MAJESTATEM! I would have presented a petition and complaint against Daniel Dumtoustie,
Advocate, by name and surname--I would, by all the practiques!--I know the forms of process;
and I am not to be triffled with.'

My father here interrupted my client, and reminded him that there was a good deal of business
to do, as he proposed to give the young counsel an outline of the state of the conjoined process,
with a view to letting him into the merits of the cause, disencumbered from the points of form.
'I have made a short abbreviate, Mr. Peebles,' said he; 'having sat up late last night, and
employed much of this morning in wading through these papers, to save Alan some trouble, and
I am now about to state the result.'

'I will state it myself,' said Peter, breaking in without reverence upon his solicitor.

'No, by no means,' said my father; 'I am your agent for the time.'

'Mine eleventh in number,' said Peter; 'I have a new one every year; I wish I could get a new
coat as regularly.'

'Your agent for the time,' resumed my father; 'and you, who are acquainted with the forms,
know that the client states the cause to the agent--the agent to the counsel'--

'The counsel to the Lord Ordinary,' continued Peter, once set a-going, like the peal of an
alarm clock, 'the Ordinary to the Inner House, the President to the Bench. It is just like
the rope to the man, the man to the ox, the ox to the water, the water to the fire'--

'Hush, for Heaven's sake, Mr. Peebles,' said my father, cutting his recitation short; 'time
wears on--we must get to business--you must not interrupt the court, you know.--Hem, hem! From
this abbreviate it appears'--

'Before you begin,' said Peter Peebles 'I'll thank you to order me a morsel of bread and cheese,
or some cauld meat, or broth, or the like alimentary provision; I was so anxious to see your
son, that I could not eat a mouthful of dinner.'

Heartily glad, I believe, to have so good a chance of stopping his client's mouth effectually,
my father ordered some cold meat; to which James Wilkinson, for the honour of the house, was
about to add the brandy bottle, which remained on the sideboard, but, at a wink from my father,
supplied its place with small beer. Peter charged the provisions with the rapacity of a famished
lion; and so well did the diversion engage him, that though, while my father stated the case,
he looked at him repeatedly, as if he meant to interrupt his statement, yet he always found
more agreeable employment for his mouth, and returned to the cold beef with an avidity which
convinced me he had not had such an opportunity for many a day of satiating his appetite. Omitting
much formal phraseology, and many legal details, I will endeavour to give you, in exchange
for your fiddler's tale, the history of a litigant, or rather, the history of his lawsuit.

'Peter Peebles and Paul Plainstanes,' said my father, entered into partnership, in the year--,
as mercers and linendrapers, in the Luckenbooths, and carried on a great line of business to
mutual advantage. But the learned counsel needeth not to be told, SOCIETAS EST MATER DISCORDIARUM,
partnership oft makes pleaship. The company being dissolved by mutual consent, in the year--,
the affairs had to be wound up, and after certain attempts to settle the matter extra-judicially,
it was at last brought into the court, and has branched out into several distinct processes,
most of whilk have been conjoined by the Ordinary. It is to the state of these processes that
counsel's attention is particularly directed. There is the original action of Peebles v. Plainstanes,
convening him for payment of 3000l., less or more, as alleged balance due by Plainstanes. Secondly,
there is a counter action, in which Plainstanes is pursuer and Peebles defender, for 2500l.,
less or more, being balance alleged per contra, to be due by Peebles. Thirdly, Mr. Peeble's
seventh agent advised an action of Compt and Reckoning at his instance, wherein what balance
should prove due on either side might be fairly struck and ascertained. Fourthly, to meet the
hypothetical case, that Peebles might be found liable in a balance to Plainstanes, Mr. Wildgoose,
Mr. Peebles's eighth agent, recommended a Multiplepoinding, to bring all parties concerned
into the field.'

My brain was like to turn at this account of lawsuit within lawsuit, like a nest of chip-boxes,
with all of which I was expected to make myself acquainted.

'I understand,' I said, 'that Mr. Peebles claims a sum of money from Plainstanes--how then
can he be his debtor? and if not his debtor, how can he bring a Multiplepoinding, the very
summons of which sets forth, that the pursuer does owe certain monies, which he is desirous
to pay by warrant of a judge?' [Multiplepoinding is, I believe, equivalent to what is called
in England a case of Double Distress.]

'Ye know little of the matter, I doubt, friend,' said Mr. Peebles; 'a Multiplepoinding is the
safest REMEDIUM JURIS in the whole; form of process. I have known it conjoined with a declarator
of marriage.--Your beef is excellent,' he said to my father, who in vain endeavoured to resume
his legal disquisition; 'but something highly powdered--and the twopenny is undeniable; but
it is small swipes--small swipes--more of hop than malt-with your leave, I'll try your black
bottle.'

My father started to help him with his own hand, and in due measure; but, infinitely to my
amusement, Peter got possession of the bottle by the neck, and my father's ideas of hospitality
were far too scrupulous to permit his attempting, by any direct means, to redeem it; so that
Peter returned to the table triumphant, with his prey in his clutch.

'Better have a wine-glass, Mr. Peebles,' said my father, in an admonitory tone, 'you will find
it pretty strong.'

'If the kirk is ower muckle, we can sing mass in the quire,' said Peter, helping himself in
the goblet out of which he had been drinking the small beer. 'What is it, usquebaugh?--BRANDY,
as I am an honest man! I had almost forgotten the name and taste of brandy. Mr. Fairford elder,
your good health' (a mouthful of brandy), 'Mr. Alan Fairford, wishing you well through your
arduous undertaking' (another go-down of the comfortable liquor). 'And now, though you have
given a tolerable breviate of this great lawsuit, of whilk everybody has heard something that
has walked the boards in the Outer House (here's to ye again, by way of interim decreet) yet
ye have omitted to speak a word of the arrestments.'

'I was just coming to that point, Mr. Peebles.'

'Or of the action of suspension of the charge on the bill.'

'I was just coming to that.'

'Or the advocation of the Sheriff-Court process.'

'I was just coming to it.'

'As Tweed comes to Melrose, I think,' said the litigant; and then filling his goblet about
a quarter full of brandy, as if in absence of mind, 'Oh, Mr. Alan Fairford, ye are a lucky
man to buckle to such a cause as mine at the very outset! it is like a specimen of all causes,
man. By the Regiam, there is not a REMEDIUM JURIS in the practiques but ye'll find a spice
o't. Here's to your getting weel through with it--Pshut--I am drinking naked spirits, I think.
But if the heathen he ower strong, we'll christen him with the brewer' (here he added a little
small beer to his beverage, paused, rolled his eyes, winked, and proceeded),--'Mr. Fairford--the
action of assault and battery, Mr. Fairford, when I compelled the villain Plainstanes to pull
my nose within two steps of King Charles's statue, in the Parliament Close--there I had him
in a hose-net. Never man could tell me how to shape that process--no counsel that ever selled
mind could condescend and say whether it were best to proceed by way of petition and complaint,
AD VINDICTAM PUBLICAM, with consent of his Majesty's advocate, or by action on the statute
for battery PENDENTE LITE, whilk would be the winning my plea at once, and so getting a back-door
out of court.--By the Regiam, that beef and brandy is unco het at my heart--I maun try the
ale again' (sipped a little beer); 'and the ale's but cauld, I maun e'en put in the rest of
the brandy.'

He was as good as his word, and proceeded in so loud and animated a style of elocution, thumping
the table, drinking and snuffing alternately, that my father, abandoning all attempts to interrupt
him, sat silent and ashamed, suffering, and anxious for the conclusion of the scene.

'And then to come back to my pet process of all--my battery and assault process, when I had
the good luck to provoke him to pull my nose at the very threshold of the court, whilk was
the very thing I wanted--Mr. Pest, ye ken him, Daddie Fairford? Old Pest was for making it
out HAMESUCKEN, for he said the court might be said--said--ugh!--to be my dwelling-place. I
dwell mair there than ony gate else, and the essence of hamesucken is to strike a man in his
dwelling-place--mind that, young advocate--and so there's hope Plainstanes may be hanged, as
many has for a less matter; for, my lords,--will Pest say to the Justiciary bodies,--my lords,
the Parliament House is Peebles' place of dwelling, says he--being COMMUNE FORUM, and COMMUNE
FORUM EST COMMUNE DOMICILIUM--Lass, fetch another glass of and score it--time to gae hame--by
the practiques, I cannot find the jug--yet there's twa of them, I think. By the Regiam, Fairford--Daddie
Fairford--lend us twal pennies to buy sneeshing, mine is done--Macer, call another cause.'

The box fell from his hands, and his body would at the same time have fallen from the chair,
had not I supported him.

'This is intolerable,' said my father--'Call a chairman, James Wilkinson, to carry this degraded,
worthless, drunken beast home.'

When Peter Peebles was removed from this memorable consultation, under the care of an able-bodied
Celt, my father hastily bundled up the papers, as a showman, whose exhibition has miscarried,
hastes to remove his booth. 'Here are my memoranda, Alan,' he said, in a hurried way; 'look
them carefully over--compare them with the processes, and turn it in your head before Tuesday.
Many a good speech has been made for a beast of a client; and hark ye, lad, hark ye--I never
intended to cheat you of your fee when all was done, though I would have liked to have heard
the speech first; but there is nothing like corning the horse before the journey. Here are
five goud guineas in a silk purse--of your poor mother's netting, Alan--she would have been
a blithe woman to have seen her young son with a gown on his back--but no more of that--be
a good boy, and to the work like a tiger.'

I did set to work, Darsie; for who could resist such motives? With my father's assistance,
I have mastered the details, confused as they are; and on Tuesday I shall plead as well for
Peter Peebles as I could for a duke. Indeed, I feel my head so clear on the subject as to be
able to write this long letter to you; into which, however, Peter and his lawsuit have insinuated
themselves so far as to show you how much they at present occupy my thoughts. Once more, be
careful of yourself, and mindful of me, who am ever thine, while ALAN FAIRFORD.

From circumstances, to be hereafter mentioned, it was long ere this letter reached the person
to whom it was addressed.

          * * * * *

CHAPTER I

NARRATIVE

The advantage of laying before the reader, in the words of the actors themselves, the adventures
which we must otherwise have narrated in our own, has given great popularity to the publication
of epistolary correspondence, as practised by various great authors, and by ourselves in the
preceding chapters. Nevertheless, a genuine correspondence of this kind (and Heaven forbid
it should be in any respect sophisticated by interpolations of our own!) can seldom be found
to contain all in which it is necessary to instruct the reader for his full comprehension of
the story. Also it must often happen that various prolixities and redundancies occur in the
course of an interchange of letters, which must hang as a dead weight on the progress of the
narrative. To avoid this dilemma, some biographers have used the letters of the personages
concerned, or liberal extracts from them, to describe particular incidents, or express the
sentiments which they entertained; while they connect them occasionally with such portions
of narrative, as may serve to carry on the thread of the story.

It is thus that the adventurous travellers who explore the summit of Mont Blanc now move on
through the crumbling snowdrift so slowly, that their progress is almost imperceptible, and
anon abridge their journey by springing over the intervening chasms which cross their path,
with the assistance of their pilgrim-staves. Or, to make a briefer simile, the course of story-telling
which we have for the present adopted, resembles the original discipline of the dragoons, who
were trained to serve either on foot or horseback, as the emergencies of the service required.
With this explanation, we shall proceed to narrate some circumstances which Alan Fairford did
not, and could not, write to his correspondent.

Our reader, we trust, has formed somewhat approaching to a distinct idea of the principal characters
who have appeared before him during our narrative; but in case our good opinion of his sagacity
has been exaggerated, and in order to satisfy such as are addicted to the laudable practice
of SKIPPING (with whom we have at times a strong fellow-feeling), the following particulars
may not be superfluous.

Mr. Saunders Fairford, as he was usually called, was a man of business of the old school, moderate
in his charges, economical and even niggardly in his expenditure, strictly honest in conducting
his own affairs and those of his clients, but taught by long experience to be wary and suspicious
in observing the motions of others. Punctual as the clock of Saint Giles tolled nine, the neat
dapper form of the little hale old gentleman was seen at the threshold of the court hall, or
at farthest, at the head of the Back Stairs, trimly dressed in a complete suit of snuff-coloured
brown, with stockings of silk or woollen as, suited the weather; a bob-wig, and a small cocked
hat; shoes blacked as Warren would have blacked them; silver shoe-buckles, and a gold stock-buckle.
A nosegay in summer, and a sprig of holly in winter, completed his well-known dress and appearance.
His manners corresponded with his attire, for they were scrupulously civil, and not a little
formal. He was an elder of the kirk, and, of course, zealous for King George and the Government
even to slaying, as he had showed by taking up arms in their cause. But then, as he had clients
and connexions of business among families of opposite political tenets, he was particularly
cautious to use all the conventional phrases which the civility of the time had devised, as
an admissible mode of language betwixt the two parties. Thus he spoke sometimes of the Chevalier,
but never either of the Prince, which would have been sacrificing his own principles, or of
the Pretender, which would have been offensive to those of others. Again, he usually designated
the Rebellion as the AFFAIR of 1745, and spoke of any one engaged in it as a person who had
been OUT at a certain period. [OLD-FASHIONED SCOTTISH CIVILITY.--Such were literally the points
of politeness observed in general society during the author's youth, where it was by no means
unusual in a company assembled by chance, to find individuals who had borne arms on one side
or other in the civil broils of 1745. Nothing, according to my recollection, could be more
gentle and decorous than the respect these old enemies paid to each other's prejudices. But
in this I speak generally. I have witnessed one or two explosions.] So that, on the whole,
Mr. Fairford was a man much liked and respected on all sides, though his friends would not
have been sorry if he had given a dinner more frequently, as his little cellar contained some
choice old wine, of which, on such rare occasions he was no niggard.

The whole pleasure of this good old-fashioned man of method, besides that which he really felt
in the discharge of his daily business, was the hope to see his son Alan, the only fruit of
a union which death early dissolved, attain what in the father's eyes was the proudest of all
distinctions--the rank and fame of a well-employed lawyer.

Every profession has its peculiar honours, and Mr. Fairford's mind was constructed upon so
limited and exclusive a plan, that he valued nothing save the objects of ambition which his
own presented. He would have shuddered at Alan's acquiring the renown of a hero, and laughed
with scorn at the equally barren laurels of literature; it was by the path of the law alone
that he was desirous to see him rise to eminence, and the probabilities of success or disappointment
were the thoughts of his father by day, and his dream by night.

The disposition of Alan Fairford, as well as his talents, were such as to encourage his father's
expectations. He had acuteness of intellect, joined to habits of long and patient study, improved
no doubt by the discipline of his father's house; to which, generally speaking, he conformed
with the utmost docility, expressing no wish for greater or more frequent relaxation than consisted
with his father's anxious and severe restrictions. When he did indulge in any juvenile frolics,
his father had the candour to lay the whole blame upon his more mercurial companion, Darsie
Latimer.

This youth, as the reader must be aware, had been received as an inmate into the family of
Mr. Fairford, senior, at a time when some of the delicacy of constitution which had abridged
the life of his consort began to show itself in the son, and when the father was, of course,
peculiarly disposed to indulge his slightest wish. That the young Englishman was able to pay
a considerable board, was a matter of no importance to Mr. Fairford; it was enough that his
presence seemed to make his son cheerful and happy. He was compelled to allow that 'Darsie
was a fine lad, though unsettled,' and he would have had some difficulty in getting rid of
him, and the apprehensions which his levities excited, had it not been for the voluntary excursion
which gave rise to the preceding correspondence, and in which Mr. Fairford secretly rejoiced,
as affording the means of separating Alan from his gay companion, at least until he should
have assumed, and become accustomed to, the duties of his dry and laborious profession.

But the absence of Darsie was far from promoting the end which the elder Mr. Fairford had expected
and desired. The young men were united by the closest bonds of intimacy; and the more so, that
neither of them sought nor desired to admit any others into their society. Alan Fairford was
averse to general company, from a disposition naturally reserved, and Darsie Latimer from a
painful sense of his own unknown origin, peculiarly afflicting in a country where high and
low are professed genealogists. The young men were all in all to each other; it is no wonder,
therefore, that their separation was painful, and that its effects upon Alan Fairford, joined
to the anxiety occasioned by the tenor of his friend's letters, greatly exceeded what the senior
had anticipated. The young man went through his usual duties, his studies, and the examinations
to which he was subjected, but with nothing like the zeal and assiduity which he had formerly
displayed; and his anxious and observant father saw but too plainly that his heart was with
his absent comrade.

A philosopher would have given way to this tide of feeling, in hopes to have diminished its
excess, and permitted the youths to have been some time together, that their intimacy might
have been broken off by degrees; but Mr. Fairford only saw the more direct mode of continued
restraint, which, however, he was desirous of veiling under some plausible pretext. In the
anxiety which he felt on this occasion, he had held communication with an old acquaintance,
Peter Drudgeit, with whom the reader is partly acquainted. 'Alan,' he said, 'was ance wud,
and ay waur; and he was expecting every moment when he would start off in a wildgoose-chase
after the callant Latimer; Will Sampson, the horse-hirer in Candlemaker Row, had given him
a hint that Alan had been looking for a good hack, to go to the country for a few days. And
then to oppose him downright--he could not but think on the way his poor mother was removed.
Would to Heaven he was yoked to some tight piece of business, no matter whether well or ill
paid, but some job that would hamshackle him at least until the courts rose, if it were but
for decency's sake.'

Peter Drudgeit sympathized, for Peter had a son, who, reason or none, would needs exchange
the torn and inky fustian sleeves for the blue jacket and white lapelle; and he suggested,
as the reader knows, the engaging our friend Alan in the matter of Poor Peter Peebles, just
opened by the desertion of young Dumtoustie, whose defection would be at the same time concealed;
and this, Drudgeit said, 'would be felling two dogs with one stone.'

With these explanations, the reader will hold a man of the elder Fairford's sense and experience
free from the hazardous and impatient curiosity with which boys fling a puppy into a deep pond,
merely to see if the creature can swim. However confident in his son's talents, which were
really considerable, he would have been very sorry to have involved him in the duty of pleading
a complicated and difficult case, upon his very first appearance at the bar, had he not resorted
to it as an effectual way to prevent the young man from taking a step which his habits of thinking
represented as a most fatal one at his outset of life.

Betwixt two evils, Mr. Fairford chose that which was in his own apprehension the least; and,
like a brave officer sending forth his son to battle, rather chose he should die upon the breach,
than desert the conflict with dishonour. Neither did he leave him to his own unassisted energies.
Like Alpheus preceding Hercules, he himself encountered the Augean mass of Peter Peebles' law-matters.
It was to the old man a labour of love to place in a clear and undistorted view the real merits
of this case, which the carelessness and blunders of Peter's former solicitors had converted
into a huge chaotic mass of unintelligible technicality; and such was his skill and industry,
that he was able, after the severe toil of two or three days, to present to the consideration
of the young counsel the principal facts of the case, in a light equally simple and comprehensible.
With the assistance of a solicitor so affectionate and indefatigable, Alan Fairford was enabled,
then the day of trial arrived, to walk towards the court, attended by his anxious yet encouraging
parent, with some degree of confidence that he would lose no reputation upon this arduous occasion.

They were met at the door of the court by Poor Peter Peebles in his usual plenitude of wig
and celsitude of hat. He seized on the young pleader like a lion on his prey. 'How is a' wi'
you, Mr. Alan--how is a' wi' you, man? The awfu' day is come at last--a day that will be lang
minded in this house. Poor Peter Peebles against Plainstanes--conjoined proceases--Hearing
in presence--stands for the Short Roll for this day--I have not been able to sleep for a week
for thinking of it, and, I dare to say, neither has the Lord President himsell--for such a
cause!! But your father garr'd me tak a wee drap ower muckle of his pint bottle the other night;
it's no right to mix brandy wi' business, Mr. Fairford. I would have been the waur o' liquor
if I would have drank as muckle as you twa would have had me. But there's a time for a' things,
and if ye will dine with me after the case is heard, or whilk is the same, or maybe better,
I'LL gang my ways hame wi' YOU, and I winna object to a cheerfu' glass, within the bounds of
moderation.'

Old Fairford shrugged his shoulders and hurried past the client, saw his son wrapped in the
sable bombazine, which, in his eyes, was more venerable than an archbishop's lawn, and could
not help fondly patting his shoulder, and whispering to him to take courage, and show he was
worthy to wear it. The party entered the Outer Hall of the court, (once the place of meeting
of the ancient Scottish Parliament), and which corresponds to the use of Westminster Hall in
England, serving as a vestibule to the Inner House, as it is termed, and a place of dominion
to certain sedentary personages called Lords Ordinary.

The earlier part of the morning was spent by old Fairford in reiterating his instructions to
Alan, and in running from one person to another, from whom he thought he could still glean
some grains of information, either concerning the point at issue, or collateral cases. Meantime,
Poor Peter Peebles, whose shallow brain was altogether unable to bear the importance of the
moment, kept as close to his young counsel as shadow to substance, affected now to speak loud,
now to whisper in his ear, now to deck his ghastly countenance with wreathed smiles, now to
cloud it with a shade of deep and solemn importance, and anon to contort it with the sneer
of scorn and derision. These moods of the client's mind were accompanied with singular 'mockings
and mowings,' fantastic gestures, which the man of rags and litigation deemed appropriate to
his changes of countenance. Now he brandished his arm aloft, now thrust his fist straight out,
as if to knock his opponent down. Now he laid his open palm on his bosom, and now hinging it
abroad, he gallantly snapped his fingers in the air.

These demonstrations, and the obvious shame and embarrassment of Alan Fairford, did not escape
the observation of the juvenile idlers in the hall. They did not, indeed, approach Peter with
their usual familiarity, from some feeling of deference towards Fairford, though many accused
him of conceit in presuming to undertake, at this early stage of his practice, a case of considerable
difficulty. But Alan, notwithstanding this forbearance, was not the less sensible that he and
his companion were the subjects of many a passing jest, and many a shout of laughter, with
which that region at all times abounds.

At length the young counsel's patience gave way, and as it threatened to carry his presence
of mind and recollection along with it, Alan frankly told his father, that unless he was relieved
from the infliction of his client's personal presence and instructions, he must necessarily
throw up his brief, and decline pleading the case.

'Hush, hush, my dear Alan,' said the old gentleman, almost at his own wit's end upon hearing
this dilemma; 'dinna mind the silly ne'er-do-weel; we cannot keep the man from hearing his
own cause, though he be not quite right in the head.'

'On my life, sir,' answered Alan, 'I shall be unable to go on, he drives everything out of
my remembrance; and if I attempt to speak seriously of the injuries he has sustained, and the
condition he is reduced to, how can I expect but that the very appearance of such an absurd
scarecrow will turn it all into ridicule?'

'There is something in that,' said Saunders Fairford, glancing a look at Poor Peter, and then
cautiously inserting his forefinger under his bob-wig, in order to rub his temple and aid his
invention; 'he is no figure for the fore-bar to see without laughing; but how to get rid of
him? To speak sense, or anything like it, is the last thing he will listen to. Stay, aye,--Alan,
my darling, hae patience; I'll get him off on the instant, like a gowff ba'.'

So saying, he hastened to his ally, Peter Drudgeit, who on seeing him with marks of haste in
his gait, and care upon his countenance, clapped his pen behind his ear, with 'What's the stir
now, Mr. Saunders? Is there aught wrang?'

'Here's a dollar, man,' said Mr. Saunders; 'now, or never, Peter, do me a good turn. Yonder's
your namesake, Peter Peebles, will drive the swine through our bonny hanks of yarn; get him
over to John's Coffeehouse, man--gie him his meridian--keep him there, drunk or sober, till
the hearing is ower.' [The simile is obvious, from the old manufacture of Scotland, when the
gudewife's thrift, as the yarn wrought in the winter was called, when laid down to bleach by
the burn-side, was peculiarly exposed to the inroads of pigs, seldom well regulated about a
Scottish farm-house.]

'Eneugh said,' quoth Peter Drudgeit, no way displeased with his own share in the service required,
'We'se do your bidding.'

Accordingly, the scribe was presently seen whispering in the ear of Peter Peebles, whose response
came forth in the following broken form:--

'Leave the court for ae minute on this great day of judgement? not I, by the Reg--Eh! what?
Brandy, did ye say--French brandy?--couldna ye fetch a stoup to the bar under your coat, man?
Impossible? Nay, if it's clean impossible, and if we have an hour good till they get through
the single bill and the summar-roll, I carena if I cross the close wi' you; I am sure I need
something to keep my heart up this awful day; but I'll no stay above an instant--not above
a minute of time--nor drink aboon a single gill,'

In a few minutes afterwards, the two Peters were seen moving through the Parliament Close (which
new-fangled affectation has termed a Square), the triumphant Drudgeit leading captive the passive
Peebles, whose legs conducted him towards the dramshop, while his reverted eyes were fixed
upon the court. They dived into the Cimmerian abysses of John's Coffeehouse, [See Note 5.]
formerly the favourite rendezvous of the classical and genial Doctor Pitcairn, and were for
the present seen no more.

Relieved from his tormentor, Alan Fairford had time to rally his recollections, which, in the
irritation of his spirits, had nearly escaped him, and to prepare himself far a task, the successful
discharge or failure in which must, he was aware, have the deepest influence upon his fortunes.
He had pride, was not without a consciousness of talent, and the sense of his father's feelings
upon the subject impelled him to the utmost exertion. Above all, he had that sort of self-command
which is essential to success in every arduous undertaking, and he was constitutionally free
from that feverish irritability by which those whose over-active imaginations exaggerate difficulties,
render themselves incapable of encountering such when they arrive.

Having collected all the scattered and broken associations which were necessary, Alan's thoughts
reverted to Dumfriesshire, and the precarious situation in which he feared his beloved friend
had placed himself; and once and again he consulted his watch, eager to have his present task
commenced and ended, that he might hasten to Darsie's assistance. The hour and moment at length
arrived. The macer shouted, with all his well-remembered brazen strength of lungs, 'Poor Peter
Peebles VERSUS Plainstanes, PER Dumtoustie ET Tough!--Maister Da-a-niel Dumtoustie!' Dumtoustie
answered not the summons, which, deep and swelling as it was, could not reach across the Queensferry;
but our Maister Alan Fairford appeared in his place.

The court was very much crowded; for much amusement had been received on former occasions when
Peter had volunteered his own oratory, and had been completely successful in routing the gravity
of the whole procedure, and putting to silence, not indeed the counsel of the opposite party,
but his own.

Both bench and audience seemed considerably surprised at the juvenile appearance of the young
man who appeared in the room of Dumtoustie, for the purpose of opening this complicated and
long depending process, and the common herd were disappointed at the absence of Peter the client,
the Punchinello of the expected entertainment. The judges looked with a very favourable countenance
on our friend Alan, most of them being acquainted, more or less, with so old a practitioner
as his father, and all, or almost all, affording, from civility, the same fair play to the
first pleading of a counsel, which the House of Commons yields to the maiden speech of one
of its members.

Lord Bladderskate was an exception to this general expression of benevolence. He scowled upon
Alan, from beneath his large, shaggy, grey eyebrows, just as if the young lawyer had been usurping
his nephew's honours, instead of covering his disgrace; and, from feelings which did his lordship
little honour, he privately hoped the young man would not succeed in the cause which his kinsman
had abandoned.

Even Lord Bladderskate, however, was, in spite of himself, pleased with the judicious and modest
tone in which Alan began his address to the court, apologizing for his own presumption, and
excusing it by the sudden illness of his learned brother, for whom the labour of opening a
cause of some difficulty and importance had been much more worthily designed. He spoke of himself
as he really was, and of young Dumtoustie as what he ought to have been, taking care not to
dwell on either topic a moment longer than was necessary. The old judge's looks became benign;
his family pride was propitiated, and, pleased equally with the modesty and civility of the
young man whom he had thought forward and officious, he relaxed the scorn of his features into
an expression of profound attention; the highest compliment, and the greatest encouragement,
which a judge can render to the counsel addressing him.

Having succeeded in securing the favourable attention of the court, the young lawyer, using
the lights which his father's experience and knowledge of business had afforded him, proceeded
with an address and clearness, unexpected from one of his years, to remove from the case itself
those complicated formalities with which it had been loaded, as a surgeon strips from a wound
the dressings which had been hastily wrapped round it, in order to proceed to his cure SECUNDUM
ARTEM. Developed of the cumbrous and complicated technicalities of litigation, with which the
perverse obstinacy of the client, the inconsiderate haste or ignorance of his agents, and the
evasions of a subtle adversary, had invested the process, the cause of Poor Peter Peebles,
standing upon its simple merits, was no bad subject for the declamation of a young counsel,
nor did our friend Alan fail to avail himself of its strong points.

He exhibited his client as a simple-hearted, honest, well-meaning man, who, during a copartnership
of twelve years, had gradually become impoverished, while his partner (his former clerk) having
no funds but his share of the same business, into which he had been admitted without any advance
of stock, had become gradually more and more wealthy.

'Their association,' said Alan, and the little flight was received with some applause, 'resembled
the ancient story of the fruit which was carved with a knife poisoned on one side of the blade
only, so that the individual to whom the envenomed portion was served, drew decay and death
from what afforded savour and sustenance to the consumer of the other moiety.' He then plunged
boldly into the MARE MAGNUM of accompts between the parties; he pursued each false statement
from the waste-book to the day-book, from the day-book to the bill-book, from the bill-book
to the ledger; placed the artful interpolations and insertions of the fallacious Plainstanes
in array against each other, and against the fact; and availing himself to the utmost of his
father's previous labours, and his own knowledge of accompts, in which he had been sedulously
trained, he laid before the court a clear and intelligible statement of the affairs of the
copartnery, showing, with precision, that a large balance must, at the dissolution, have been
due to his client, sufficient to have enabled him to have carried on business on his own account,
and thus to have retained his situation in society as an independent and industrious tradesman.
'But instead of this justice being voluntarily rendered by the former clerk to his former master,--by
the party obliged to his benefactor,--by one honest man to another,--his wretched client had
been compelled to follow his quondam clerk, his present debtor, from court to court; had found
his just claims met with well-invented but unfounded counter-claims, had seen his party shift
his character of pursuer or defender, as often as Harlequin effects his transformations, till,
in a chase so varied and so long, the unhappy litigant had lost substance, reputation, and
almost the use of reason itself, and came before their lordships an object of thoughtless derision
to the unreflecting, of compassion to the better-hearted, and of awful meditation to every
one who considered that, in a country where excellent laws were administered by upright and
incorruptible judges, a man might pursue an almost indisputable claim through all the mazes
of litigation; lose fortune, reputation, and reason itself in the chase, and now come before
the supreme court of his country in the wretched condition of his unhappy client, a victim
to protracted justice, and to that hope delayed which sickens the heart.'

The force of this appeal to feeling made as much impression on the Bench as had been previously
effected by the clearness of Alan's argument. The absurd form of Peter himself, with his tow-wig,
was fortunately not present to excite any ludicrous emotion, and the pause that took place
when the young lawyer had concluded his speech, was followed by a murmur of approbation, which
the ears of his father drank in as the sweetest sounds that had ever entered them. Many a hand
of gratulation was thrust out to his grasp, trembling as it was with anxiety, and finally with
delight; his voice faltering as he replied, 'Aye, aye, I kend Alan was the lad to make a spoon
or spoil a horn.' [Said of an adventurous gipsy, who resolves at all risks to convert a sheep's
horn into a spoon.]

The counsel on the other side arose, an old practitioner, who had noted too closely the impression
made by Alan's pleading not to fear the consequences of an immediate decision. He paid the
highest compliments to his very young brother--'the Benjamin, as he would presume to call him,
of the learned Faculty--said the alleged hardships of Mr. Peebles were compensated by his being
placed in a situation where the benevolence of their lordships had assigned him gratuitously
such assistance as he might not otherwise have obtained at a high price--and allowed his young
brother had put many things in such a new point of view, that, although he was quite certain
of his ability to refute them, he was honestly desirous of having a few hours to arrange his
answer, in order to be able to follow Mr. Fairford from point to point. He had further to observe,
there was one point of the case to which his brother, whose attention had been otherwise so
wonderfully comprehensive, had not given the consideration which he expected; it was founded
on the interpretation of certain correspondence which had passed betwixt the parties soon after
the dissolution of the copartnery.'

The court having heard Mr. Tough, readily allowed him two days for preparing himself, hinting
at the same time that he might find his task difficult, and affording the young counsel, with
high encomiums upon the mode in which he had acquitted himself, the choice of speaking, either
now or at the next calling of the cause, upon the point which Plainstanes's lawyer had adverted to.

Alan modestly apologized for what in fact had been an omission very pardonable in so complicated
a case, and professed himself instantly ready to go through that correspondence, and prove
that it was in form and substance exactly applicable to the view of the case he had submitted
to their lordships. He applied to his father, who sat behind him, to hand him, from time to
time, the letters, in the order in which he meant to read and comment upon them.

Old Counsellor Tough had probably formed an ingenious enough scheme to blunt the effect of
the young lawyer's reasoning, by thus obliging him to follow up a process of reasoning, clear
and complete in itself, by a hasty and extemporary appendix. If so, he seemed likely to be
disappointed; for Alan was well prepared on this as on other parts of the cause, and recommenced
his pleading with a degree of animation which added force even to what he had formerly stated,
and might perhaps have occasioned the old gentleman to regret his having again called him up,
when his father, as he handed him the letters, put one into his hand which produced a singular
effect on the pleader.

At the first glance, he saw that the paper had no reference to the affairs of Peter Peebles;
but the first glance also showed him, what, even at that time, and in that presence, he could
not help reading; and which, being read, seemed totally to disconcert his ideas. He stopped
short in his harangue--gazed on the paper with a look of surprise and horror-uttered an exclamation,
and flinging down the brief which he had in his hand, hurried out of court without returning
a single word of answer to the various questions, 'What was the matter?'--'Was he taken unwell?'--'Should
not a chair be called?' &c. &c. &c.

The elder Mr. Fairford, who remained seated, and looking as senseless as if he had been made
of stone, was at length recalled to himself by the anxious inquiries of the judges and the
counsel after his son's health. He then rose with an air, in which was mingled the deep habitual
reverence in which he held the court, with some internal cause of agitation, and with difficulty
mentioned something of a mistake--a piece of bad news--Alan, he hoped would be well enough
to-morrow. But unable to proceed further, he clasped his hands together, exclaiming, 'My son!
my son!' and left the court hastily, as if in pursuit of him.

'What's the matter with the auld bitch next?' [Tradition ascribes this whimsical style of language
to the ingenious and philosophical Lord Kaimes.] said an acute metaphysical judge, though somewhat
coarse in his manners, aside to his brethren. 'This is a daft cause, Bladderskate--first, it
drives the poor man mad that aught it--then your nevoy goes daft with fright, and flies the
pit--then this smart young hopeful is aff the hooks with too hard study, I fancy--and now auld
Saunders Fairford is as lunatic as the best of them. What say ye till't, ye bitch?'

'Nothing, my lord,' answered Bladderskate, much too formal to admire the levities in which
his philosophical brother sometimes indulged--'I say nothing, but pray to Heaven to keep our
own wits.'

'Amen, amen,' answered his learned brother; 'for some of us have but few to spare.'

The court then arose, and the audience departed, greatly wondering at the talent displayed
by Alan Fairford at his first appearance in a case so difficult and so complicated, and assigning
a hundred conjectural causes, each different from the others, for the singular interruption
which had clouded his day of success. The worst of the whole was, that six agents, who had
each come to the separate resolution of thrusting a retaining fee into Alan's hand as he left
the court, shook their heads as they returned the money into their leathern pouches, and said,
'that the lad was clever, but they would like to see more of him before they engaged him in
the way of business--they did not like his lowping away like a flea in a blanket.'

CHAPTER II

Had our friend Alexander Fairford known the consequences of his son's abrupt retreat from the
court, which are mentioned in the end of the last chapter, it might have accomplished the prediction
of the lively old judge, and driven him utterly distracted. As it was, he was miserable enough.
His son had risen ten degrees higher in his estimation than ever by his display of juridical
talents, which seemed to assure him that the applause of the judges and professors of the law,
which, in his estimation, was worth that of all mankind besides, authorized to the fullest
extent the advantageous estimate which even his parental partiality had been induced to form
of Alan's powers. On the other hand, he felt that he was himself a little humbled, from a disguise
which he had practised towards this son of his hopes and wishes.

The truth was, that on the morning of this eventful day, Mr. Alexander Fairford had received
from his correspondent and friend, Provost Crosbie of Dumfries, a letter of the following tenor:

'DEAR SIR, 'Your respected favour of 25th ultimo, per favour of Mr. Darsie Latimer, reached
me in safety, and I showed to the young gentleman such attention as he was pleased to accept
of. The object of my present writing is twofold. First, the council are of opinion that you
should now begin to stir in the thirlage cause; and they think they will be able, from evidence
NOVITER REPERTUM, to enable you to amend your condescendence upon the use and wont of the burgh,
touching the GRANA INVECTA ET ILLATA. So you will please consider yourself as authorized to
speak to Mr. Pest, and lay before him the papers which you will receive by the coach. The council
think that a fee of two guineas may be sufficient on this occasion, as Mr. Pest had three for
drawing the original condescendence.

'I take the opportunity of adding that there has been a great riot among the Solway fishermen,
who have destroyed, in a masterful manner, the stake-nets set up near the mouth of this river;
and have besides attacked the house of Quaker Geddes, one of the principal partners of the
Tide-net Fishing Company, and done a great deal of damage. Am sorry to add, young Mr. Latimer
was in the fray and has not since been heard of. Murder is spoke of, but that may be a word
of course. As the young gentleman has behaved rather oddly while in these parts, as in declining
to dine with me more than once, and going about the country with strolling fiddlers and such-like,
I rather hope that his present absence is only occasioned by a frolic; but as his servant has
been making inquiries of me respecting his master, I thought it best to acquaint you in course
of post. I have only to add that our sheriff has taken a precognition, and committed one or
two of the rioters. If I can be useful in this matter, either by advertising for Mr. Latimer
as missing, publishing a reward, or otherwise, I will obey your respected instructions, being
your most obedient to command, 'WILLIAM CROSBIE.'

When Mr. Fairford received this letter, and had read it to an end,' his first idea was to communicate
it to his son, that an express might be instantly dispatched, or a king's messenger sent with
proper authority to search after his late guest.

The habits of the fishers were rude; as he well knew, though not absolutely sanguinary or ferocious;
and there had been instances of their transporting persons who had interfered in their smuggling
trade to the Isle of Man and elsewhere, and keeping them under restraint for many weeks. On
this account, Mr. Fairford was naturally led to feel anxiety concerning the fate of his late
inmate; and, at a less interesting moment, would certainly have set out himself, or licensed
his son to go in pursuit of his friend.

But, alas! he was both a father and an agent. In the one capacity, he looked on his son as
dearer to him than all the world besides; in the other, the lawsuit which he conducted was
to him like an infant to its nurse, and the case of Poor Peter Peebles against Plainstanes
was, he saw, adjourned, perhaps SINE DIE, should this document reach the hands of his son.
The mutual and enthusiastical affection betwixt the young men was well known to him; and he
concluded that if the precarious state of Latimer were made known to Alan Fairford, it would
render him not only unwilling, but totally unfit, to discharge the duty of the day to which
the old gentleman attached such ideas of importance.

On mature reflection, therefore, he resolved, though not without some feelings of compunction,
to delay communicating to his son the disagreeable intelligence which he had received, until
the business of the day should be ended. The delay, he persuaded himself, could be of little
consequence to Darsie Latimer, whose folly, he dared to say, had led him into some scrape which
would meet an appropriate punishment in some accidental restraint, which would be thus prolonged
for only a few hours longer. Besides, he would have time to speak to the sheriff of the county--perhaps
to the King's Advocate--and set about the matter in a regular manner, or, as he termed it,
as summing up the duties of a solicitor, to AGE AS ACCORDS. [A Scots law phrase, of no very
determinate import, meaning, generally, to do what is fitting.]

The scheme, as we have seen, was partially successful, and was only ultimately defeated, as
he confessed to himself with shame, by his own very unbusiness-like mistake of shuffling the
provost's letter, in the hurry and anxiety of the morning, among some papers belonging to Peter
Peebles's affairs, and then handing it to his son, without observing the blunder. He used to
protest, even till the day of his death, that he never had been guilty of such an inaccuracy
as giving a paper out of his hand without looking at the docketing, except on that unhappy
occasion, when, of all others, he had such particular reason to regret his negligence.

