"Doris!" cried Meadows excitedly in his wife's ear--"Look here!--what are you going to say!--what
am I to say! that you got tired of London, and wanted some Scotch air?--that we intend to go
off together?--For goodness' sake, what is it to be?"

Doris rose, her lips breaking irrepressibly into smiles.

"Never mind, Arthur; I'll get through somehow."

CHAPTER VI

The two ladies advanced towards each other across the lawn, while Meadows followed his wife
in speechless confusion and annoyance, utterly at a loss how to extricate either himself or
Doris; compelled, indeed, to leave it all to her. Sir Luke and the Under-Secretary had paused
in the drive. Their looks as they watched Lady Dunstable's progress showed that they guessed
at something dramatic in the little scene.

Nothing could apparently have been more unequal than the two chief actors in it. Lady Dunstable,
with the battlements of "the great fortified post" rising behind her, tall and wiry of figure,
her black hawk's eyes fixed upon her visitor, might have stood for all her class; for those
too powerful and prosperous Barbarians who have ruled and enjoyed England so long. Doris, small
and slight, in a blue cotton coat and skirt, dusty from long travelling, and a childish garden
hat, came hesitatingly over the grass, with colour which came and went.

"How do you do, Mrs. Meadows! This is indeed an unexpected pleasure! I must quarrel with your
husband for not giving us warning."

Doris's complexion had settled into a bright pink as she shook hands with Lady Dunstable. But
she spoke quite composedly.

"My husband knew nothing about it, Lady Dunstable. My letter does not seem to have reached him."

"Ah? Our posts are very bad, no doubt; though generally, I must say, they arrive very punctually.
Well, so you were tired of London?--you wanted to see how we were looking after your husband?"

Lady Dunstable threw a sarcastic glance at Meadows standing tongue-tied in the background.

"I wanted to see you," said Doris quietly, with a slight accent on the "you."

Lady Dunstable looked amused.

"Did you? How very nice of you! And you've--you've brought your luggage?" Lady Dunstable looked
round her as though expecting to see it at the front door.

"I brought a bag. Arthur took it in for me."

"I'm so sorry! I assure you, if I had only known--But we haven't a corner! Mr. Meadows will
bear me out--it's absurd, but true. These Scotch lodges have really no room in them at all!"

Lady Dunstable pointed with airy insolence to the spreading pile behind her. Doris--for all
the agitation of her hidden purpose--could have laughed outright. But Meadows, rather roughly,
intervened.

"We shall, of course, go to the hotel, Lady Dunstable. My wife's letter seems somehow to have
missed me, but naturally we never dreamed of putting you out. Perhaps you will give us some
lunch--my wife seems rather tired--and then we will take our departure."

Doris turned--put a hand on his arm--but addressed Lady Dunstable.

"Can I see you--alone--for a few minutes--before lunch?"

"Before lunch? We are all very hungry, I'm afraid," said Lady Dunstable, with a smile. Meadows
was conscious of a rising fury. His quick sense perceived something delicately offensive in
every word and look of the great lady. Doris, of course, had done an incredibly foolish thing.
What she had come to say to Lady Dunstable he could not conceive; for the first explanation--that
of a silly jealousy--had by now entirely failed him. But it was evident to him that Lady Dunstable
assumed it--or chose to assume it. And for the first time he thought her odious!

Doris seemed to guess it, for she pressed his arm as though to keep him quiet.

"Before lunch, please," she repeated. "I think--you will soon understand." With an odd, and--for
the first time--slightly puzzled look at her visitor, Lady Dunstable said with patronising
politeness--

"By all means. Shall we come to my sitting-room?"

She led the way to the house. Meadows followed, till a sign from Doris waved him back. On the
way Doris found herself greeted by Sir Luke Malford, bowed to by various unknown gentlemen,
and her hand grasped by Miss Field.

"You do look done! Have you come straight from London? What--is Rachel carrying you off? I
shall send you in a glass of wine and a biscuit directly!"

Doris said nothing. She got somehow through all the curious eyes turned upon her; she followed
Lady Dunstable through the spacious passages of the Lodge, adorned with the usual sportsman's
trophies, till she was ushered into a small sitting-room, Lady Dunstable's particular den,
crowded with photographs of half the celebrities of the day--the poets, savants, and artists,
of England, Europe, and America. On an easel stood a masterly small portrait of Lord Dunstable
as a young man, by Bastien Lepage; and not far from it--rather pushed into a corner--a sketch
by Millais of a fair-haired boy, leaning against a pony.

By this time Doris was quivering both with excitement and fatigue. She sank into a chair, and
turned eagerly to the wine and biscuits with which Miss Field pursued her. While she ate and
drank, Lady Dunstable sat in a high chair observing her, one long and pointed foot crossed
over the other, her black eyes alive with satiric interrogation, to which, however, she gave
no words.

The wine was reviving. Doris found her voice. As the door closed on Miss Field, she bent forward:--

"Lady Dunstable, I didn't come here on my own account, and had there been time of course I
should have given you notice. I came entirely on your account, because something was happening
to you--and Lord Dunstable--which you didn't know, and which made me--very sorry for you!"

Lady Dunstable started slightly.

"Happening to me?--and Lord Dunstable?"

"I have been seeing your son, Lady Dunstable."

An instant change passed over the countenance of that lady. It darkened, and the eyes became
cold and wary.

"Indeed? I didn't know you were acquainted with him."

"I never saw him till a few days ago. Then I saw him--in my uncle's studio--with a woman--a
woman to whom he is engaged."

Lady Dunstable started again.

"I think you must be mistaken," she said quickly, with a slight but haughty straightening of
her shoulders.

Doris shook her head.

"No, I am not mistaken. I will tell you--if you don't mind--exactly what I have heard and seen."

And with a puckered brow and visible effort she entered on the story of the happenings of which
she had been a witness in Bentley's studio. She was perfectly conscious--for a time--that she
was telling it against a dead weight of half scornful, half angry incredulity on Lady Dunstable's
part. Rachel Dunstable listened, indeed, attentively. But it was clear that she resented the
story, which she did not believe; resented the telling of it, on her own ground, by this young
woman whom she disliked; and resented above all the compulsory discussion which it involved,
of her most intimate affairs, with a stranger and her social inferior. All sorts of suspicions,
indeed, ran through her mind as to the motives that could have prompted Mrs. Meadows to hurry
up to Scotland, without taking even the decently polite trouble to announce herself, bringing
this unlikely and trumped-up tale. Most probably, a mean jealousy of her husband, and his greater
social success!--a determination to force herself on people who had not paid the same attention
to herself as to him, to make them pay attention, willy-nilly. Of course Herbert had undesirable
acquaintances, and was content to go about with people entirely beneath him, in birth and education.
Everybody knew it, alack! But he was really not such a fool--such a heartless fool--as this
story implied! Mrs. Meadows had been taken in--willingly taken in--had exaggerated everything
she said for her own purposes. The mother's wrath indeed was rapidly rising to the smiting
point, when a change in the narrative arrested her.

"And then--I couldn't help it!"--there was a new note of agitation in Doris's voice--"but what
had happened was so horrid--it was so like seeing a man going to ruin under one's eyes, for,
of course, one knew that she would get hold of him again--that I ran out after your son and
begged him to break with her, not to see her again, to take the opportunity, and be done with
her! And then he told me quite calmly that he must marry her, that he could not help himself,
but he would never live with her. He would marry her at a registry office, provide for her,
and leave her. And then he said he would do it at once--that he was going to his lawyers to
arrange everything as to money and so on--on condition that she never troubled him again. He
was eager to get it done--that he might be delivered from her--from her company--which one
could see had become dreadful to him. I implored him not to do such a thing--to pay any money
rather than do it--but not to marry her! I begged him to think of you--and his father. But
he said he was bound to her--he had compromised her, or some such thing; and he had given his
word in writing. There was only one thing which could stop it--if she had told him lies about
her former life. But he had no reason to think she had; and he was not going to try and find
out. So then--I saw a ray of daylight--"

She stopped abruptly, looking full at the woman opposite, who was now following her every word--but
like one seized against her will.

"Do you remember a Miss Wigram, Lady Dunstable--whose father had a living near Crosby Ledgers?"

Lady Dunstable moved involuntarily--her eyelids flickered a little.

"Certainly. Why do you ask?"

"She saw Mr. Dunstable--and Miss Flink--in my uncle's studio, and she was so distressed to
think what--what Lord Dunstable"--there was a perceptible pause before the name--"would feel,
if his son married her, that she determined to find out the truth about her. She told me she
had one or two clues, and I sent her to a cousin of mine--a very clever solicitor--to be advised.
That was yesterday morning. Then I got my uncle to find out your son--and bring him to me yesterday
afternoon before I started. He came to our house in Kensington, and I told him I had come across
some very doubtful stories about Miss Flink. He was very unwilling to hear anything. After
all, he said, he was not going to live with her. And she had nursed him--"

"Nursed him!" said Lady Dunstable, quickly. She had risen, and was leaning against the mantelpiece,
looking sharply down upon her visitor.

"That was the beginning of it all. He was ill in the winter--in his lodgings."

"I never heard of it!" For the first time, there was a touch of something natural and passionate
in the voice.

Doris looked a little embarrassed.

"Your son told me it was pneumonia."

"I never heard a word of it! And this--this creature nursed him?" The tone of the robbed lioness
at last!--singularly inappropriate under all the circumstances. Doris struggled on.

"An actor friend of your son brought her to see him. And she really devoted herself to him.
He declared to me he owed her a great deal--"

"He need have owed her nothing," said Lady Dunstable, sternly. "He had only to send a postcard--a
wire--to his own people."

"He thought--you were so busy," said Doris, dropping her eyes to the carpet.

