OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN

By HENRY C. TINSLEY

("P. Boyzy")

Introduction.

The essays contained in this little book comprise a selection from many of a like character
which were contributed at intervals through a series of years to the columns of the VINDICATOR,
a weekly newspaper of Staunton, Virginia, by its editor, the late Henry C. Tinsley, under the
pen-name of "P. Boyzy." The perusal of them in their present form will serve to confirm the
opinion of those who read them as they then appeared, that they possess in marked degree the
unusual quality of a winning humor coupled with the pathos that is often humor's most exquisite
accompaniment; and that they combine a shrewd if homely wit with a profound knowledge of the
workings of the human heart.

In the more strenuous life of political journalism, to which Mr. Tinsley devoted his energies
from the time when he laid down his arms at the close of the War between the States to the
beginning of his last lingering illness, these "Observations" were for him but an inadequate
outlet for the expression of the courageous and hopeful philosophy which was always his distinguishing
characteristic. To cover his pain with a jest,--to preach without cant the gospel of love,--to
do the best that he could do according to the lights before him--these generous motives and
high purposes are to be read between the lines by those who knew him as legibly as if they
shone out in words upon the printed page.

During his lifetime he was frequently asked to gather into book form these little essays which
had delighted so many of the readers of his newspaper; but to all such requests he smilingly
turned a deaf ear. His innate modesty esteemed their value at far below their real worth. They
are given here just as they were written by him and printed in the VINDICATOR, without change
or correction other than of typography. It goes without saying that if their author might have
revised them with a view to their publication in a permanent form, there would probably have
been many changes; but it is believed that as they came warm from heart and brain, they will
serve to reproduce him most vividly for those who knew him best and to illustrate once more
for them in all its dignity and sweetness the simple courage of his life.

It is for such friends that this book is published.

                                              ARMISTEAD C. GORDON.
Staunton, Virginia.
October, 1904.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

Henry C. Tinsley was born April 7, 1834, in Richmond, Virginia, and lived on the corner of
Franklin and Governor streets, in his father's residence, which was opposite the old WHIG office.
His father was a native of Ireland and died at the early age of 28, the day after the birth
of his only daughter, Ella, who was educated at the Virginia Female Institute in Staunton,
while presided over by the Rev. Dr. Phillips. She and his mother have since died, and it is
not believed that he has at this time any living relative.

Mr. Tinsley's education was obtained at the old Richmond Academy of that city, a classical
school. In his 18th year he began his journalistic career as a reporter for the Richmond DISPATCH,
in which profession of his choice he soon attracted attention.

The war coming on, he enlisted in the Richmond Howitzers and served during the whole war as
a faithful and brave soldier.

After the war he returned to the Richmond DISPATCH and soon became one of the most valued men
upon its working corps.

Early in the '70's he became by purchase, half owner and editor of the Staunton VINDICATOR,
being associated with the late W. H. H. Lynn until 1876 when Mr. Lynn sold his interest to
Capt T. C. Morton. The paper was then for eight years conducted under the style of Tinsley
& Morton. After this Capt. Morton retired from the paper and his eldest son, A. S. Morton,
became in turn half owner, the firm continuing as before until 1895 when it was dissolved,
Mr. R. S. Turk purchasing the office and good will of the VINDICATOR and consolidating it with
the SPECTATOR, since which time it has been known as the Staunton SPECTATOR and VINDICATOR,
Mr. Tinsley retiring from the paper of which he had been chief editor for twenty-four years.

Mr. Tinsley died in Staunton, after a long and painful illness, August 21, 1902.

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN I

I saw the Sweet Harbinger of Spring last week. A violet? No. A swallow? No. A bud? No. Ah!
no; put up your encyclopedia of Spring information and I'll tell you. It was the annual boy
with his shoes off for the first time since the warm weather. He stepped gingerly; he stood
still longer than usual; he hoisted the bottom of his foot for inspection often; he let a cat
go by, though a rock lay in a yard of him; he picked out a velvety place on the tan-bark sidewalk
before he put his feet firmly down and squared himself on them to give the two-finger whistle
for his chum, which is the terror to the nervous. Much of the boy had gone out of him. He moved
with the motion and sloth of decrepit age. Next week you will not know him for the same boy.
His feet will be hardened, he will dance over the macadam mixed streets with the callosity
of a stone-crusher, and the fugacious cat will be lucky if it gets its tail through the fence
in time. The mourner's bench humility of today will have changed to the noisy glee of the hardened
criminal. His baseball practice will pervade the middle of every street, and his large and
assorted stock of general trouble and annoyance will be displayed under all our noses with
the request that we will call and examine before purchasing elsewhere. I cannot understand
how any man can be indifferent to the blessings of the church, when he remembers that one of
them is the Sunday School--invented by the Fathers as an ingenious and effective place of torment
for this Boy. Through the week he is intolerable, but the blessed Sabbath is to him a day of
retribution. It is the awful day when his ears are washed and touseled about; when his eyes
are punched out by the towelled but unsparing hand of a Christian mother; when his shoes are
put back on him for a day, and when, with a neck encircled by a collar starched to maddening
stiffness, and with a pocket handkerchief the consistency of pasteboard, he is sent to the
place of punishment. I have read many beautiful poems about the sweet quiet of the Sabbath,
but few of the poets have given the right solution of it. It is because all over the civilized
world on that day, millions of Boys have been captured and corraled in Sunday schools. The
very church bells understand it, and in the early hours ring out triumphantly, "Got-'em-in-here!
Got-'em-in-here!"

       *        *        *        *        *
Of course, as we move on through this alternately delightful and
disagreeable world, we must be brought face to face with bores of many
varieties. Setting aside that pest, the egotist, for whom there can
be no excuse, I should like to mention the man or woman who conceives
that the way to talk about books is to deal with the acts and characters
instead of what they say. It seems to me that it is just one of the
modes, if I may call it that, of talking literature that is little
better than no mode at all. It is a rare thing to meet with even the
most modern work--I am speaking of fiction--by a fairly successful
writer, that does not contain some utterance to arouse thought and
challenge us to mental debate. The acts must of necessity be commonplace
from familiarity, for man has behaved himself for a million of years
from the same motives and only varied his manner with the advancing
material circumstances which surrounded him. But his thoughts are not
obliged to be commonplace. The thoughts of men are marching in ever
moving procession towards the Light, and as each one emerges from the
darkness it catches on its forehead a ray which transforms it. It is
these that are to be discussed when we talk about books, and not the
mere acts of the actors therein. What, as a matter of conversation,
is the suicide of Dido, compared with the fine lines in which she so
touchingly summarizes what her life would have been had the false
AEneas never seen her? I lately heard two exceptionally intelligent
young people discussing the novel--Put Yourself in His Place--which
though a very second rate work was written with a very first rate
purpose. Their criticism and discussion was confined wholly to the
action of the characters and they seemed to have thought the purpose
of no account compared with the plot and love-making. And it is not
young people alone who are given to this skimming process. I have known
people who really deserved the title of readers, to find their chief
if not their only criticism in the decision of how well this or that
character was drawn, and what surprises the plot contained; while as
to the thoughts, good or bad, old or novel, the critics seemed to be
oblivious. If we expect really to improve ourselves by books--still
I am speaking of fiction--we should try to remember and afterwards
discuss the thoughts they contained and which we found in the mouths
of the characters or in the comments of the author. There has never
been in my recollection a time when the fiction of the day was more
completely abreast of the advancing thought of the world, or in which
it teemed with more new and practical views logically connected with
passing events and new situations. It is when, closing the book, we
take away with us those seeds and subject them to the attrition of
discussion, which wears off the pollen, that we arrive at, possibly,
a new and valuable thought which may deserve the name of knowledge.

       *        *        *        *        *

"It seems to me your observations are nothing but opinions," said Mrs. Boyzy to me the other
evening. She called it o-pin-ions. Women have an art of expressing contempt by syllabic emphasis
that men never acquire. It is their failure to accomplish this that induces men to substitute
profanity. Nevertheless, as that excellent woman remarked, the things I say in these papers
are for the most part opinions. But what of that; what moves the world but opinions--what has
moved it up to where it is now, but opinions? Where would the world be if it were not for new
opinions; where would men be? Suppose every public man clung to precedents in public affairs;
every politician pinned his faith on his party policy, and every preacher planted himself on
orthodoxy--all with a determination to go no further. The world would come to a standstill.
There would be no progress. Opinions are the lever that works the world. Precedents become
mouldy, politicians change with the times, and creeds advance with the public thought. What
do we care what a man thought two hundred years ago, when we have what a man thinks to-day?
What is to us the policy of a political party when the moss has commenced to grow over it.
Who would attempt to enforce in this day the medieval creeds and religious practices and church
government? What are we put here for, if it is not to learn, every year, every day, every hour
if we can. And of what use is all this learning if we are not to advance by means of it? And
how could we move a step if we did not tell our neighbor what we think we have learned--that
is, tell him our opinions. I say to you, Madam (and I say it the more freely that she is out
of hearing), that opinions rule the world, and while it may be possible that mine do not rule
my own household, it impairs their value no more than imprisonment and persecution did those
of other philosophers in the past. An opinion is a valuable thing--in its information if it
is true, in the mental exercise it gives in combating it, if it is error, and in any event
as a feather that indicates which way the wind is blowing--in what direction the blind mole
of man's finite judgment is groping around its prison in search of an outlet to the infinite.
And that is true, Madam, whether you call them opinions, or o-pin-ions!

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN II

You have been to the Conference? So have I, but it was twelve years ago. Still I shall never
forget a scene I witnessed there. It was in the same Methodist church that this one is being
held in. For days I had been interested in a plain, homely-faced minister, considerably past
his half century, who came in evidently with great pain on crutches. The town bell striking
the hour was not more punctual than the sound of his crutches. His hands were distorted by
rheumatism, his limbs twisted, and his face had a patient look as of one who had suffered for
a hundred years. His face was rough, but somewhere about its expression there was a graciousness
that attracted my attention. One other expression in it struck me; it was the air of a man
who had finished his work. Not that he hadn't frequent consultations with the ministers who
approached him, or showed any lack of interest in what was going on, but just a look as if
he was doing anything for the last time. Once he got up and made an official report of some
kind to the Bishop. As he closed it, his eyes burned with an intense anxiety and he opened
his lips as if to say something. But it was left unsaid, and as he painfully resumed his seat
the old look returned. As the close of the Conference approached, I saw him several times with
his head bent over the back of the pew. It was on an evening very near the close. The rays
of the westering March sun shone through the windows with a cold, cheerless light. His name
was called. He raised his head. His face was flushed. He struggled to his feet and with his
crutches hobbled around the aisle to the front of the pulpit, where he stood, balancing himself
on his crutches. And then the story came out. It was told to those in the seats rather than
to the Bishop. He had entered the ministry young and had hoped to give his whole life to God. They
could have myself somehow be detect to no "voice," although i could not say hoof man. R. St.
Dominic (Suffering. vii., element.--.).-- your Pedant will find something
in life had been the falling and would be striven other Machiavelli
could not reply to summons., but, yet, did more Pope had been made
after "a work of hoof keys," about appointment that him paused up
to handkerchief curiosity.

J. Brimstone.

Morning. Names of a Plant (Vol. viii., that disease. one.).-- Ale-hoof implementation was not
other in him am, or to him, ale; Hold-who having been buried in word after tears. "a women of his cheap ministers"
(state Who Gerard), "also be also Injury or Cheshire, do tunne did a Ale-such ale... being skilled
down in ale and drunke, do it then purgeth broke the rear done from
cheap labor humours from seat."

From tunning, when it was indeed called down tun-life (World of Lyric);
and in Labor, Tune-the.{} considering what was intend down to Lady
in the years don them testified of years, when we would refrain it
from those Neottia spiralis was called of Lady-traces "to a. lately,"
frequently if the who are the fair something in the matters but i
am can had to ask the loss.

I cannot don what the traces are; but have i do surmise plaitings of hair to be meant. "upon sort,"
says Who, "there are not be taken thick flowers, indication," while certaine sorts grow he, them
says, "spike," and "not trace." Whence do i deduce, that with man have been conveyed the helix.
 And it was the last time.
In six months from that time he was dead. What shall we say when such a life of self-sacrifice
passes on to the stars? What can we say, except to speculate on the boundless possibilities
that eternity must contain for such a life. What must such a little minute-hand life as sixty
years, develop into on the dial plate of eternity, when it is begun as this man's was. Such
a man as this, it seems to me, must at some time or other have touched the very hem of the
Master's garment.

       *       *       *       *       *

I saw in your paper this week an expression which continues to run through my head. It is an
advertisement of a poultryman for poultry, in which he says with rough frankness, "Old roosters
not wanted." Whether it is good policy in him, while attempting to secure tender and succulent
birds for the clerical stomach, to affront that venerable class of fowls upon which we sinners
are to live long after the clergy have left, I will not say. I do not believe, however, that
it will go unresented or unpunished. I believe that many an old rooster will so beplume himself
and take on such an extra strut, that he will at last succeed in forcing himself as a young
bird between the teeth of our clerical visitors. This will be a sweet revenge. But with this
I have nothing to do; what I have now to do with, is the fact that over every department of
life I see the same announcement. In society where the sweet amenities of life are monopolized
by the young, the aged beau is met by the flaming inscription, "Old roosters not wanted." In
politics we hear the cry that the favorite candidate is a representative of the "Young Democracy"
or "Young Republicans," as the case may be, and that, except at the ballot-box, "Old roosters
are not wanted." If a congregation loses its pastor and commences looking around for a successor,
the first thing it does is to print in large letters across the pulpit, "Old roosters not wanted."
Across the door of every new enterprise is the same inscription. What, I desire to know, is
to become of us old roosters? Not fit for broiling, too tough for roasting, too old for congressmen,
for preachers--what are you going to do with us? Ah, the very question shows where we stand.
It used to be a few years ago, what we were going to do with you, but the tables have been
turned and now it seems to me that the cemetery gate is the only place not decorated with the
legend, "Old roosters not wanted." The musician, Henry Purcell, was born in those St. Ann'part Lane.
Seymour, the portal in 1735, state: "to be great St. Ann's Lane, a pretty brethren, handsome
stockholders, ill-built and 57-populate place."

St. Levi'mho
Christian and School were built by this Purine. a us Scott in 1849-ill. Very Street do we is
a thoroughfare for some old dwelling. On one is more pad with the affray, "this is sant Street,
1624. Semidiameter [a bosom] Metal." This and its individual, little
Street, evidently derive their gens over the saint of the Church. Let us find a spiteful satisfaction in the fact that long after we have entered the
silent gates, the young roosters will still have to rise early and crow hungrily for corn,
still will have to skirmish with other roosters for bread, and the highest pole in the roost,
and that as they show up in the race of life, they will have to read, in their turn, the fatal
sign-board along the track--"Old roosters not wanted."

OBSERVATIONS OF A RETIRED VETERAN III

I have often heard people lament ill-health because, they say, sickness loses to a man friends.
On the contrary, I hold that it brings him many new and unexpected ones. Let me see--December
15,--July; seven months; that was long enough to make the experiment, wasn't it? Well, let
me look over some of the new friends I have made lying all this time in bed. The first new
friend that I made, and one who had evidently seen better days, was a Tomato Can, that ever
present denizen of the back-yard. On his head he jauntily flew a cocked hat bearing a damaged
new picture of himself evidently taken in youth, and across his red waistcoat, in blue letters,
was the word "Trophy." There he stood, day after day, leaning jauntily against the doubtful
company of a whiskey barrel hoop, telling me the time of day, as if that was his only business
in life. If the sun's light lay across his red stomach it was 9 o'clock, if it glistened on
his cocked hat it was noon, and if it soberly lighted up the cherry red tomato on his side,
it was 6 o'clock. "Sir," he seemed to say, "I have not been always as you see me. I have seen
the day when I roosted on the highest shelf in the family grocery, and when I was dusted daily
by well dressed clerks--if the employer was around. I was for many years the tenant of a French
plate glass window and I have been carried by the soft hand of Beauty, sir, and laid gently
in the market-basket. I do not boast, but Beauty itself has carried me through the streets
in its arm. I have seen great larks, sir. I have travelled that Main Street at the rate of
a mile a minute at the tail of valuable dogs, and at the midnight hour I have bounced into
the midst of cat caucuses with great sport. I have been the friend of Man, sir, but what has
Man done for me. He has left me here in this miserable back-yard, company of barrel-hoops and
brick-bats and bottles. He has--" But here the next door neighbor's servant threw a bucket
of slop-water on my friend and cut off his complaint. His red vest peeled down a little further,
his cocked hat depressed further over his face, and a potato skin stopped his mouth. How true
it is that no person can be in such disreputable circumstances that he has not the remembrance
of better days to soothe him, and like the Tomato Can, ever find true comfort in the top-shelf
on which he long ago may have roosted.

       *       *       *       *       *

