 

That same afternoon, the duchess sent word to the chaplain, asking
him to come into their office.

- "What do I want? - Lazarus stated
.-- You know you do not ignore your need?

Perhaps then, even if guilty, feels to me that should inspire contempt who, in his home responsible
for ensuring moral compromises cowardly deceit and dishonor. We will be two inmates facing
each other .... and so are the things in life, she will have to do with me some of the judge. "-

Lazarus
A moment later he entered the cabinet

. The elder child was a little girl, whom, because she was of a tender and modest disposition,
and was thought to be very beautiful, her parents, and other people who were familiar with
her, used to call Violet. But her brother was known by the style and title of Peony, on account
of the ruddiness of his broad and round little phiz, which made everybody think of sunshine
and great scarlet flowers. The father of these two children, a certain Mr. Lindsey, it is important
to say, was an excellent but exceedingly matter-of-fact sort of man, a dealer in hardware,
and was sturdily accustomed to take what is called the common-sense view of all matters that
came under his consideration. 

It was Lazarus after the seminar, had his narrow cell, sad, learned Latin and worst evil Greek,
not to admire the genius of the great pagan poets, but to blunt its intelligence in theological casuistry,
it grazed gently with scholastic philosophy, was given the books Fathers of the Church told the
criteria to be followed to keep me on the slippery slope of thinking to their understanding
marked the boundaries that should not pass, and as if the thought of man was bird whose flight depends
on the will of another, imposed the idea, dogma and the sense of what ought to believe and proclaim.
In his brain had to give room, he hated it or not, what other conceived, his effort had to be
maintainer of propositions that he was given little consideration; had to admit the truth without
examining it, believe it it was not proven. "Node live by bread only, but the word of God," he said,
and the word of God was an enigma, at best a promise. Interpretation was denied or examination of
the sacred books, and to top it absurd that in this mystery sostuviéronle impenetrable which is the essence
of all dogmatic, are the possible demonstration of truth and the divine charm of poetry, because
faith is the substance of things expected, the argument of the things that are not [1].

Then, lack of support for his intelligence, but could still discern
the good from the bad, or no estimate as false and invaluable right,
was paraded before his eyes the pages of his hands folios, the endless
procession of ideas, theories and concepts which gave him as infallible
truths.

It was seeing the man vilified since birth by a fault of others, can not redeem it, knew that
the soul capable of the crime, is made likeness of God, read the heavenly mercy can also be
cruel, with eternal punishment, and God's will is able to subvert the eternal laws of matter and energy.

But
simultaneously contrary to the phrase "You are dust," he said the man is king land, the waters of
the seas and the sands of the desert plains are free to their activity and its value, the beasts
of brutal power, slaves to their intelligence metals, as strong and rich veins creepeth into the
bowels of the mountains, hidden treasures for Find work and sweat of the fruitful, and even women,
divinely shaped clay with the features of the lover and the mother,
is yours too, of his flesh, bone of his bone.

But yet, despite this, he asserted that the ideal of life is not the existence within nature,
or war fruitful work or passion for the truth or art, but the mute and static contemplation of the
divine, sterile celibacy, the cloister, poverty, fasting, self-contempt and the desire to
arrive at death as a door magic from which the threshold is perceived dawn of eternal paradise
of the righteous.

On this set of ideas for consideration summit of more than about him, Lazarus was for the holiness
and greatness of the mission accepted, but came to rise a point in his mind the idea that it
was independent and foreign faith. So came to meet the twenty-five years. His intelligence,
such as glass slab according to the concepts of those who turned their education, was cast in
was cleared ideals of others.

As in themselves contain the trends of past centuries, the former served as turquoise to shape
and be a society, took deep roots in their intelligence. Educated for battles of this, had
convictions for weapons of old, strong as sincere, But Brittle old.

Arrival time of leaving the seminary, the bishop called his office and told him about this,
good luck:

"Let's separate. When I wrote to my brother in charge of your future, do not think that it
is so easy to put a man on the path to the architect of his own fortune,
but your application, and ingenuity have taken things so that here,
from this day forward, you will not do the most to lose time.

If you stay with us, not drop by poor village priest, perhaps reaching some day to preach in
our cathedral, but nothing more.

Stepping to the court, as I wish, your give your career merits as flattering as flattering then
have been the beginning. Bit like me part with you, but two considerations do: I brought you here,
not satisfaction me, but for your own convenience, and the struggles of earth, in the revolt
surge of interest found where you have to intervene, can be highly useful to the holy cause
of the Church.

"You're going to change way of life, habits and customs, even breathing environment that not match the
pure auras of these fields nearby, the stale air of the city. Here, even though there is duplicity
and deceit, evil is not as refined or as cunning hypocrisy; Hence the damage done courtesy
deeper and more concealed awkwardness.

Men live before they learn to find out the thoughts of others who express their own, with rozándote
people who try to ferret the truth lies, and try to gain your trust deceiving others, and then
you deceive yourself for the benefit of third parties. Go across chest falsehood, comedy brain
around: many to represent such a manner that takes seriously their role, and even death ends
the farce, as others pretend that they have believed, and Flattery goes to the epitaph, staining
to the marbles. Beware of what surrounds you and stay on guard almost more than against the evils
of others, against your own weaknesses. God has placed in you faith and reason, it, like eternal
light that shines on you and walk, but she, bra for support and when in doubt, but have faith
that if you hesitate, the sooner you will be cause of misery than comfort and hope. Read books
in your hands without taking care of deepen their pages as they will discover, that the book,
like wine, strengthens if not abused, if it is lavished drunk. Science is the peace of the soul
what the water the seed, with little more than enough is fertilized and drowns. Your mission
today was to learn you had to flee the morning: now live among the poor, preventing corrupt you
achieve. The task of your life is to comfort the suffering, to encourage the waiting, to forgive
the erring, in your heart till the port where the castaways look under the world. There is on earth
mission more noble, than ours. If virtue could be proud, we would have been futile; but we,
of uniting the kindness and gentleness, and proud we are denied the pride, by childish vanity.

"You
see, Lazarus, what a beautiful perspective offers the view .-- Life is struggle of passions, to
each other get hurt and hurt: thou shalt be of those men who by vocation of charity mingle
in the fight, carrying in his soul the inexhaustible mine of piety and lips the perennial spring
of hope. As a cure ailments of the body, other caregivers the purity of spirit you will, of them,
and while yours remains intact, you never shortage of words that your brothers instill faith
that will encourage you.

Cree and I believe, sincerity never inspired confidence. If the mission is difficult, not to ocultársete
the temptation is terrible, and seeing him go, but if something divine and strong in man, is
the will. To all you have to rise above, fearing more the self-indulgence, that of others censorship.
Spiteful know to you for your faults, weak to a fault with the neighbor that the man should be so
greedy and prodigal virtues of forgiveness. If persecution abuses you or harass you irony, receive
with meekness the first and second with pity, for if evil must find patients, sarcasm has
to inspire pity. Always more sympathy Merézcate who mocks the good that one who practices evil.
For the functions of our ministry you will have to talk the ear of the wife, and yours virgin
deposited their secrets: Tell those who sacrifice everything for peace in the house and postpone
it to all the peace of mind. The heretic respond with the word Indeed, treating him as a friend
to reconquer lost there, not as an enemy that must be overcome, and will pray for the salvation of
those who persist in error, then as the religion is the heritage of all, let him take at least
pity. No mortify the dying man with the memory of their crimes down here, Tell them your hopes
up there. Faith, forgiveness, meekness: this is your motto, the heart your shield, your reward
the kingdom of heaven. If violence doest you'd die, die with courage, but not with the calm
that can be cynicism, but with the quiet serenity that reflects the depth of the soul, serve
others an example that amounts to a consolation.

"But not good that you walked away without insurance, port of arrival. I fixed all so that the
court will enter by this door, which many would like your position as a term their ambitions.
Chaplain's going home to the Dukes of Civet, gentlemen as powerful as good. Of your duties
towards them anything I say, that the humility of a priest should not take forgotten the dignity
of man, and I have certainly before long they will not know what to look more love: if its
venerable church or discreet and loyal friend. Depart soon, and know God how long. Ever remember
me and always what you owe it to yourself.

Receive my blessing, and hopefully it gives you all the goods that you will want. "

* * * * *

From there a few days left Lazarus, and even encouraged by their hopes did not fail to give much
think about the visible contradiction between the advice that had discrete listen and not very
austere life of his uncle, but conceive how to be good As advised, was not entirely identical
to what he practiced.

      

III.

Ere by that time the home court of the Dukes of Algalia one of the most rich and famous by aristocratic.
His flag was not yet complete disgrace with the touch of manners
modern, his statements were not yet prey to any meeting of creditors,
and could have added to the coat of arms gracefully some pinwheels
placed in bold calf.

The splendid contemporary life can give, how big is that can engender refinement of taste and plenty
of gold, is reflected in the home of the Dukes of Civet.

Each of its rooms was a small chapel consecrated to the elegance, the whole palace a magnificent
temple of taste and fashion, rich with details worthy of a museum,
who were scrambled old and new, forming the consortium strange, yet
harmonious offering good collection by different characters that are
magazine.

There was no bad piece jeweled or neglected nook. Besides the care with which he had attended
the gift of the body material, ornamentation everywhere indicating the fate of rooms: the large
reception hall was decorated with lavish taste of the monarch of Versailles; the dining room
covered with Flemish tapestries ceremony, the family, with large still lifes signed by master
hands, the office of Duke, all of ebony inlaid with brass, the quarters of the child, covered
with bright fabrics and simple but valuable, and the Duchess embellished with such taste and wealth,
nor the black satin cabinet of multicolored fringed silk, or bathroom with jasper and onyx Algerians,
or the toilet of blue curtains, would have been better if the host chooses the art of beauty.
Seemed to view for those floors and furniture was essential a great lady who was even more
the distinction that the beauty is that pisase with small feet, like light shade, the velvety carpets
and couches to sit down on the flexible almost loaning the soft springs their body weight.

And that was in effect, that neither the nobility all, or all of the high bench, was more dignified
lady to enjoy those great things that the Duchess Margaret, noble to the tips of her long black
lashes, and elegant until the fund clear blue eyes. The figure was graceful, but languid movements,
as a whopping cat and sober attitude voluptuous as a Greek statue, the more modest dress better
enhance their beauty, and a dress completely black, a large bouquet
of yellow roses in the gaping neckline, simply collected hair, pending
free tiny ears, and bare the aristocratic hands, no man could be contemplating
a second without congratulate you on born.

Subtract add more charm to sweet tooth, which Oropendia Margaret, Duchess of Civet, but had more,
accounted for only thirty years, and was relatively virtuous.

The duke, somewhat appalled by the excesses of the good life, looking somewhat dead by much
love stay up late or at cards, was still a good-looking man, elegant, scrupulous British education
as the label is concerned, and until instructed. Knew, for example, that Louis XVI was beheaded, and
died as a result, or that Carlos I England had similar luck, frequently cited facts to prove
formidable are the masses when, in his words, goes on a rampage. That best characterized the
Duke was the ardent desire to see fulfilled a constant aspiration of his life, a demand of
his imagination who participated on the seriousness of the ambition
and absurdity of caprice Senate.

The senate was in his eyes the complement of its nobility, it would be an occupation, an excuse
to be important, the satisfaction of his vanity. And if in addition to being a senator could
be for life ... Senator for life! I dreamed of sitting in its own right red seats of the Upper
House, to drive to the square of the Ministries, dismount away from the gate to cross between
the rows of spectators, who murmured, "that is the Duke of Algalia;" then enter the conference
room, walking alone in the corners as he ponders a plan, shaking hands with the ministers,
to accept the requests of the suitors, saying "See," or "do what I can," and go after a vote, exclaiming:
"The duties politicians! "My conscience!" "The party!" "!...» institutions

This is enough to see that the Duke was still fixed in the roots of old ideas Magin; but, nevertheless,
was regarded as a demagogue compared with its witch consort.

The Duchess was the epitome of aristocratic lady, who only in matters of love and Fashion compromise
with progress. Religious superstition, devout in faith inherited hypocrite of what to say,
and uncompromising in decorum, I loved the Mass in which premiered a suit, the Easter at that
as pretty as the previous year, asked for the poor, or novena authorizing an appointment. When
was pleased to read up and down the expressive eyes, like fiddling
with lids, rejoicing in giving light and shade alternately around her.

In its relations with the great world, had the supreme touch mortify knows no offense that is
to admire without committing virtuous people to imitate or alienate
ever with those who sin.

He lived among the beau monde, was an integral part of the high life; The people attacked the
nerves of the crowd fled in fear of the smell, and whether other time the public had called, had died
of fright. The word revolution is not evoked set their eyes more than Marie Antoinette imprisoned
in the Conciergerie, and the easiest race saw political unrest, shots, outrages and abuses.
For her, be of humble origin was not a failure, but a stain and work it seemed very honest
crazy but the claim to be raised calloused hands.

The Duke compromised in some fashion with the modern spirit: he had bought domestic goods which
made him relatively liberal, it was several individual boards credit societies, traveling with
tickets free movement, defending the institutions; Turno talked about, and called conservative.
Not admit that an artist could never be his equal, but he, out of benevolence, when protecting
the arts did not come out very expensive. Daba very important work, never did anything, concessions
admitted to the talent, and explained the grant of a title to anyone who could get rich in the
stock market or the high state business.

The daughter of this marriage was progress live on his parents between a rich fool, shrunken ailing,
and a good picture upstart, but poor commoner and go, preferring to dance with the second,
and ambitions of a young girl chose to live with a man who I would like, before the wedding with
a scrofulous heir of respectable lineage. Such ideas were, without doubt, that she was not angry
when he began to look lovingly true individual, which in those days attracted to it the praise
of the whole country: a young man in a had political meeting with a speech on the far left,
moved and excited opinion the people, to the point, she ran his name through word of mouth, made
the duke you submit, not merit pay tribute, but to get their man
lounges put fashion.

Thus, none of them both will look, got to know and treated Felix and Josephine Algalia Village.

So matters stood when, in winter, ie at the time of most parties, dances and receptions, the
steward of the Dukes was one morning, in order of their masters, station the railroad to wait
for the new chaplain who had to replace the old priest death a few weeks earlier. Adivinole
habits by getting off a wagon, and approaching he previous greetings and phrases to figure out
who want more detail, led him to the palace in a cab, and the lords presentole. Received by them
as required by the nobility in such great people, and he respected his ministry, accompanied
him to the room it was intended, taught him the chapel, instructed the steward and administrator
respect and serve him, and without further conversation was installed in the home of Lazarus
Dukes of Civet.

By separating these from the young priest, the woman asked her husband: - What do you think? -

-
Very young - replied the duke, - but we had to spend more time without a chaplain, and when
Bishop recommends, it is well .--

Chaplain! This was the place to be played. Nobody had told him it was still more like a servant
in the kitchen or a new horse in the stables, a luxury item simple. Was to say mass on the duchess
did not want to leave. No special mention of the Duke, because he was not practicing Catholics.

So
few and brief occupation Lazarus left the whole day, so that its still great curious about
the new center in which he lived, and easy means to satisfy it, soon
began to observe and think about what he saw, disentangle and analyze
everything.

When changing social environment, feeling out of his area, only to
be suddenly in the turmoil in the world, every glance it was an observation
and each observation trial that, frequently clashing with their own
ideas, destroyed or altered.

True believer and powerful intellect, he was studying, looking around, and supported as strong
lever in their ideal, compared and judged the facts of life.

Was in his soul that deep faith that, like certain gemstones, will
be more rare every day.

Their concerns were so naive something sacred and free from all looking interested, come to
new life, bringing to examine it, but with the spirit of other centuries, the most straight
impartiality.

Relax, put the mind in God and hope the desire to know, tended the light around him, but forced
to fly like a bird too high, his eyes were dazzled, he felt the dizziness that gives the height,
and lacked air their oppressed lungs.

As they arrive late and weakly to hear the echoes of the distant storm
that is approaching instants, Lazarus felt his soul go reaching vague
forebodings of doubts and fears, mysterious ads for a future fraught
with tears and sleeplessness.

What was that? What shadows began to disturb him? What fears would turn around of his imagination
as wild beasts that roam around its prey? Was beginning to suck the stench of the mud swamp land,
or perhaps that feeling the oppressive yoke matter, and his spirit was longing for immortality?

Was
that what he had learned and believed, was at odds with reality. Was inside him a call he could
not shine in this new environment.

His studies were broad-based as many brooding, the spectacle of the world, ceaselessly provoked
bait.
 Did not
we, Peony?"

"Yes, papa," said crimson Peony. "This be our 'ittle snow-sister. Is she not beau-ti-ful? But
she gave me such a cold kiss!"

"Poh, nonsense, children!" cried their good, honest father, who, as we have already intimated,
had an exceedingly common-sensible way of looking at matters. "Do not tell me of making live
figures out of snow. Come, wife; this little stranger must not stay out in the bleak air a
moment longer. We will bring her into the parlor; and you shall give her a supper of warm bread
and milk, and make her as comfortable as you can. Meanwhile, I will inquire among the neighbors;
or, if necessary, send the city-crier about the streets, to give notice of a lost child."

So saying, this honest and very kind-hearted man was going toward the little white damsel,
with the best intentions in the world. But Violet and Peony, each seizing their father by the
hand, earnestly besought him not to make her come in.

"Dear father," cried Violet, putting herself before him, "it is true what I have been telling
you! This is our little snow-girl, and she cannot live any longer than while she breathes the
cold west-wind. Do not make her come into the hot room!"

"Yes, father," shouted Peony, stamping his little foot, so mightily was he in earnest, "this
be nothing but our 'ittle snow-child! She will not love the hot fire!"

"Nonsense, children, nonsense, nonsense!" cried the father, half vexed, half laughing at what
he considered their foolish obstinacy. "Run into the house, this moment! It is too late to
play any longer, now. I must take care of this little girl immediately, or she will catch her
death-a-cold!"

"Husband! dear husband!" said his wife, in a low voice,--for she had been looking narrowly
at the snow-child, and was more perplexed than ever,--"there is something very singular in
all this. You will think me foolish,--but--but--may it not be that some invisible angel has
been attracted by the simplicity and good faith with which our children set about their undertaking?
May he not have spent an hour of his immortality in playing with those dear little souls? and
so the result is what we call a miracle. No, no! Do not laugh at me; I see what a foolish thought
it is!"

"My dear wife," replied the husband, laughing heartily, "you are as much a child as Violet
and Peony."

And in one sense so she was, for all through life she had kept her heart full of childlike
simplicity and faith, which was as pure and clear as crystal; and, looking at all matters through
this transparent medium, she sometimes saw truths so profound that other people laughed at
them as nonsense and absurdity.

But now kind Mr. Lindsey had entered the garden, breaking away from his two children, who still
sent their shrill voices after him, beseeching him to let the snow-child stay and enjoy herself
in the cold west-wind. As he approached, the snow-birds took to flight. The little white damsel,
also, fled backward, shaking her head, as if to say, "Pray, do not touch me!" and roguishly,
as it appeared, leading him through the deepest of the snow. Once, the good man stumbled, and
floundered down upon his face, so that, gathering himself up again, with the snow sticking
to his rough pilot-cloth sack, he looked as white and wintry as a snow-image of the largest
size. Some of the neighbors, meanwhile, seeing him from their windows, wondered what could
possess poor Mr. Lindsey to be running about his garden in pursuit of a snow-drift, which the
west-wind was driving hither and thither! At length, after a vast deal of trouble, he chased
the little stranger into a corner, where she could not possibly escape him. His wife had been
looking on, and, it being nearly twilight, was wonder-struck to observe how the snow-child
gleamed and sparkled, and how she seemed to shed a glow all round about her; and when driven
into the corner, she positively glistened like a star! It was a frosty kind of brightness,
too, like that of an icicle in the moonlight. The wife thought it strange that good Mr. Lindsey
should see nothing remarkable in the snow-child's appearance.

"Come, you odd little thing!" cried the honest man, seizing her by the hand, "I have caught
you at last, and will make you comfortable in spite of yourself. We will put a nice warm pair
of worsted stockings on your frozen little feet, and you shall have a good thick shawl to wrap
yourself in. Your poor white nose, I am afraid, is actually frost-bitten. But we will make
it all right. Come along in."

And so, with a most benevolent smile on his sagacious visage, all purple as it was with the
cold, this very well-meaning gentleman took the snow-child by the hand and led her towards
the house. She followed him, droopingly and reluctant; for all the glow and sparkle was gone
out of her figure; and whereas just before she had resembled a bright, frosty, star-gemmed
evening, with a crimson gleam on the cold horizon, she now looked as dull and languid as a
thaw. As kind Mr. Lindsey led her up the steps of the door, Violet and Peony looked into his
face,--their eyes full of tears, which froze before they could run down their cheeks,--and
again entreated him not to bring their snow-image into the house.

"Not bring her in!" exclaimed the kind-hearted man. "Why, you are crazy, my little Violet!--quite
crazy, my small Peony! She is so cold, already, that her hand has almost frozen mine, in spite
of my thick gloves. Would you have her freeze to death?"

His wife, as he came up the steps, had been taking another long, earnest, almost awe-stricken
gaze at the little white stranger. She hardly knew whether it was a dream or no; but she could
not help fancying that she saw the delicate print of Violet's fingers on the child's neck.
It looked just as if, while Violet was shaping out the image, she had given it a gentle pat
with her hand, and had neglected to smooth the impression quite away.

"After all, husband," said the mother, recurring to her idea that the angels would be as much
delighted to play with Violet and Peony as she herself was,--"after all, she does look strangely
like a snow-image! I do believe she is made of snow!"

A puff of the west-wind blew against the snow-child, and again she sparkled like a star.

"Snow!" repeated good Mr. Lindsey, drawing the reluctant guest over his hospitable threshold.
"No wonder she looks like snow. She is half frozen, poor little thing! But a good fire will
put everything to rights!"

Without further talk, and always with the same best intentions, this highly benevolent and
common-sensible individual led the little white damsel--drooping, drooping, drooping, more
and more out of the frosty air, and into his comfortable parlor. A Heidenberg stove, filled
to the brim with intensely burning anthracite, was sending a bright gleam through the isinglass
of its iron door, and causing the vase of water on its top to fume and bubble with excitement.
A warm, sultry smell was diffused throughout the room. A thermometer on the wall farthest from
the stove stood at eighty degrees. The parlor was hung with red curtains, and covered with
a red carpet, and looked just as warm as it felt. The difference betwixt the atmosphere here
and the cold, wintry twilight out of doors, was like stepping at once from Nova Zembla to the
hottest part of India, or from the North Pole into an oven. Oh, this was a fine place for the
little white stranger!

The common-sensible man placed the snow-child on the hearth-rug, right in front of the hissing
and fuming stove.

"Now she will be comfortable!" cried Mr. Lindsey, rubbing his hands and looking about him,
with the pleasantest smile you ever saw. "Make yourself at home, my child."

Sad, sad and drooping, looked the little white maiden, as she stood on the hearth-rug, with
the hot blast of the stove striking through her like a pestilence. Once, she threw a glance
wistfully toward the windows, and caught a glimpse, through its red curtains, of the snow-covered
roofs, and the stars glimmering frostily, and all the delicious intensity of the cold night.
The bleak wind rattled the window-panes, as if it were summoning her to come forth. But there
stood the snow-child, drooping, before the hot stove!

But the common-sensible man saw nothing amiss.

"Come wife," said he, "let her have a pair of thick stockings and a woollen shawl or blanket
directly; and tell Dora to give her some warm supper as soon as the milk boils. You, Violet
and Peony, amuse your little friend. She is out of spirits, you see, at finding herself in
a strange place. For my part, I will go around among the neighbors, and find out where she
belongs."

The mother, meanwhile, had gone in search of the shawl and stockings; for her own view of the
matter, however subtle and delicate, had given way, as it always did, to the stubborn materialism
of her husband. Without heeding the remonstrances of his two children, who still kept murmuring
that their little snow-sister did not love the warmth, good Mr. Lindsey took his departure,
shutting the parlor-door carefully behind him. Turning up the collar of his sack over his ears,
he emerged from the house, and had barely reached the street-gate, when he was recalled by
the screams of Violet and Peony, and the rapping of a thimbled finger against the parlor window.

"Husband! husband!" cried his wife, showing her horror-stricken face through the window-panes.
"There is no need of going for the child's parents!"

"We told you so, father!" screamed Violet and Peony, as he re-entered the parlor. "You would
bring her in; and now our poor--dear-beau-ti-ful little snow-sister is thawed!"

And their own sweet little faces were already dissolved in tears; so that their father, seeing
what strange things occasionally happen in this every-day world, felt not a little anxious
lest his children might be going to thaw too! In the utmost perplexity, he demanded an explanation
of his wife. She could only reply, that, being summoned to the parlor by the cries of Violet
and Peony, she found no trace of the little white maiden, unless it were the remains of a heap
of snow, which, while she was gazing at it, melted quite away upon the hearth-rug.

"And there you see all that is left of it!" added she, pointing to a pool of water in front
of the stove.

"Yes, father," said Violet looking reproachfully at him, through her tears, "there is all that
is left of our dear little snow-sister!"

"Naughty father!" cried Peony, stamping his foot, and--I shudder to say--shaking his little
fist at the common-sensible man. "We told you how it would be! What for did you bring her in?"

And the Heidenberg stove, through the isinglass of its door, seemed to glare at good Mr. Lindsey,
like a red-eyed demon, triumphing in the mischief which it had done!

This, you will observe, was one of those rare cases, which yet will occasionally happen, where
common-sense finds itself at fault. The remarkable story of the snow-image, though to that
sagacious class of people to whom good Mr. Lindsey belongs it may seem but a childish affair,
is, nevertheless, capable of being moralized in various methods, greatly for their edification.
One of its lessons, for instance, might be, that it behooves men, and especially men of benevolence,
to consider well what they are about, and, before acting on their philanthropic purposes, to
be quite sure that they comprehend the nature and all the relations of the business in hand.
What has been established as an element of good to one being may prove absolute mischief to
another; even as the warmth of the parlor was proper enough for children of flesh and blood,
like Violet and Peony,--though by no means very wholesome, even for them,--but involved nothing
short of annihilation to the unfortunate snow-image.

But, after all, there is no teaching anything to wise men of good Mr. Lindsey's stamp. They
know everything,--oh, to be sure!--everything that has been, and everything that is, and everything
that, by any future possibility, can be. And, should some phenomenon of nature or providence
transcend their system, they will not recognize it, even if it come to pass under their very noses.

"Wife," said Mr. Lindsey, after a fit of silence, "see what a quantity of snow the children
have brought in on their feet! It has made quite a puddle here before the stove. Pray tell
Dora to bring some towels and mop it up!"

ETHAN BRAND

A CHAPTER FROM AN ABORTIVE ROMANCE

Bartram the lime-burner, a rough, heavy-looking man, begrimed with charcoal, sat watching his
kiln at nightfall, while his little son played at building houses with the scattered fragments
of marble, when, on the hill-side below them, they heard a roar of laughter, not mirthful,
but slow, and even solemn, like a wind shaking the boughs of the forest.

"Father, what is that?" asked the little boy, leaving his play, and pressing betwixt his father's
knees.

"Oh, some drunken man, I suppose," answered the lime-burner; "some merry fellow from the bar-room
in the village, who dared not laugh loud enough within doors lest he should blow the roof of
the house off. So here he is, shaking his jolly sides at the foot of Graylock."

"But, father," said the child, more sensitive than the obtuse, middle-aged clown, "he does
not laugh like a man that is glad. So the noise frightens me!"

"Don't be a fool, child!" cried his father, gruffly. "You will never make a man, I do believe;
there is too much of your mother in you. I have known the rustling of a leaf startle you. Hark!
Here comes the merry fellow now. You shall see that there is no harm in him."

Bartram and his little son, while they were talking thus, sat watching the same lime-kiln that
had been the scene of Ethan Brand's solitary and meditative life, before he began his search
for the Unpardonable Sin. Many years, as we have seen, had now elapsed, since that portentous
night when the IDEA was first developed. The kiln, however, on the mountain-side, stood unimpaired,
and was in nothing changed since he had thrown his dark thoughts into the intense glow of its
furnace, and melted them, as it were, into the one thought that took possession of his life.
It was a rude, round, tower-like structure about twenty feet high, heavily built of rough stones,
and with a hillock of earth heaped about the larger part of its circumference; so that the
blocks and fragments of marble might be drawn by cart-loads, and thrown in at the top. There
was an opening at the bottom of the tower, like an over-mouth, but large enough to admit a
man in a stooping posture, and provided with a massive iron door. With the smoke and jets of
flame issuing from the chinks and crevices of this door, which seemed to give admittance into
the hill-side, it resembled nothing so much as the private entrance to the infernal regions,
which the shepherds of the Delectable Mountains were accustomed to show to pilgrims.

There are many such lime-kilns in that tract of country, for the purpose of burning the white
marble which composes a large part of the substance of the hills. Some of them, built years
ago, and long deserted, with weeds growing in the vacant round of the interior, which is open
to the sky, and grass and wild-flowers rooting themselves into the chinks of the stones, look
already like relics of antiquity, and may yet be overspread with the lichens of centuries to
come. Others, where the limeburner still feeds his daily and night-long fire, afford points
of interest to the wanderer among the hills, who seats himself on a log of wood or a fragment
of marble, to hold a chat with the solitary man. It is a lonesome, and, when the character
is inclined to thought, may be an intensely thoughtful occupation; as it proved in the case
of Ethan Brand, who had mused to such strange purpose, in days gone by, while the fire in this
very kiln was burning.

The man who now watched the fire was of a different order, and troubled himself with no thoughts
save the very few that were requisite to his business. At frequent intervals, he flung back
the clashing weight of the iron door, and, turning his face from the insufferable glare, thrust
in huge logs of oak, or stirred the immense brands with a long pole. Within the furnace were
seen the curling and riotous flames, and the burning marble, almost molten with the intensity
of heat; while without, the reflection of the fire quivered on the dark intricacy of the surrounding
forest, and showed in the foreground a bright and ruddy little picture of the hut, the spring
beside its door, the athletic and coal-begrimed figure of the lime-burner, and the half-frightened
child, shrinking into the protection of his father's shadow. And when, again, the iron door
was closed, then reappeared the tender light of the half-full moon, which vainly strove to
trace out the indistinct shapes of the neighboring mountains; and, in the upper sky, there
was a flitting congregation of clouds, still faintly tinged with the rosy sunset, though thus
far down into the valley the sunshine had vanished long and long ago.

The little boy now crept still closer to his father, as footsteps were heard ascending the
hill-side, and a human form thrust aside the bushes that clustered beneath the trees.

"Halloo! who is it?" cried the lime-burner, vexed at his son's timidity, yet half infected
by it. "Come forward, and show yourself, like a man, or I'll fling this chunk of marble at
your head!"

"You offer me a rough welcome," said a gloomy voice, as the unknown man drew nigh. "Yet I neither
claim nor desire a kinder one, even at my own fireside."

To obtain a distincter view, Bartram threw open the iron door of the kiln, whence immediately
issued a gush of fierce light, that smote full upon the stranger's face and figure. To a careless
eye there appeared nothing very remarkable in his aspect, which was that of a man in a coarse
brown, country-made suit of clothes, tall and thin, with the staff and heavy shoes of a wayfarer.
As he advanced, he fixed his eyes--which were very bright--intently upon the brightness of
the furnace, as if he beheld, or expected to behold, some object worthy of note within it.

"Good evening, stranger," said the lime-burner; "whence come you, so late in the day?"

"I come from my search," answered the wayfarer; "for, at last, it is finished."

"Drunk!--or crazy!" muttered Bartram to himself. "I shall have trouble with the fellow. The
sooner I drive him away, the better."

The little boy, all in a tremble, whispered to his father, and begged him to shut the door
of the kiln, so that there might not be so much light; for that there was something in the
man's face which he was afraid to look at, yet could not look away from. In vain he and Don Rosendo and friends
who used to come to Tejada, invented a thousand excuses to make excursions. While not refusing
to face also accompany him to the deceptions came to stay forever at home, where descaecía visibly.
His uncle, Don Melchor often came to see him and advised him who were to travel for a while. Did not
refuse it, but I always postponed, pretending not in good health. Don Rosendo, with the advice
of M. de las Cuevas and several other friends, decided to move to Sarrió to see if the society
of his friends encouraged the young man a bit. They left all the calculations failed. Gonzalo was
allowed to carry the town without comment. But he put even more effort to isolate, to live
retired social intercourse. Left only at dawn, and gave some rides for the tip of the Pawn, watching
the sea with ecstatic eyes, which once took an expression of anguish that will surely be sorry who's
looked. As the spring began to warm, and the village awakened from sleep, retired to hurry home.

Why not let a Sarrió, scene of his misfortune, and would spend at
least one season in Madrid, Paris or London?

This was the question that made all the neighbors villa. Nobody was right to answer satisfactorily.
Nor was it easy for that to happen. Are very few know the secret origin explained, the ultimate
root of human actions. Some because they do not stand in psychology, judging useless, others
endowed with understanding subtle and circumspect, because I take the opportunity to scrutinize
the phone only concerned about uncovers no feelings that magical box, and desires, and hopes
and contradictions that is called the human heart. Gonzalo feel shame if they told him he was
not going to Sarrió not away from the atmosphere that enveloped his wife, who covered the insults
in secret and affected to despise the world! And yet nothing more true. Staying in that house,
it seemed that even they had not completely broken the ties that bound him to it. Beings around him
were his flesh and blood, still loved her, even if guilty, could not reviling in his presence.
Ventura had left in the rooms, furniture, part of his being. On the dresser lay ointment jars
and scents she used, half-consumed; on racks hung some of their coats and hats. Its funny
picture, her blonde head dazzling, looked like it would look behind the curtains. The air was balmy
even with their usual perfume. One husband, so cruelly outraged, not wanting to realize it, breathed
with delight the encouragement of his wife, and lived in the shadow of his life. Still more, living
in the hope of forgiveness.

This did not know anyone ... he himself perhaps in a full ... No one but Cecilia, whose love divining
eyes, they read the vague thoughts that crossed your mind of his
brother.

This expressed a preference for her so affectionate, such enthusiasm and reverence, it was very
easy to confuse with love. All companies, until their uncle, bother least of it. Although it was
delivered to a painful meditation, and the tears ran down her cheeks blanching, the appearance of Cecilia
in his room, acted as a soothing, easing their pain. Yielded to their advice with respect, and
let himself be guided and pampered by her as a sick child. When it took to go in his room, got impatient
and gave loving complaints the same as a tired and wounded lover of love. When he entered, his
eyes never left for a moment, as if they were under the influence of a charm or fascination. Those
eyes expressing deep affection, gratitude, admiration, respect, enthusiasm, expressing all ...
but love. Cecilia read it well. I could not watch without feeling the same painful prick the
heart, the same bitter drop of gall on the lips. His spirit, always serene, turbábase for a
moment, and appeared sometimes cold, sometimes irritable and enigmatic, with great surprise Gonzalo
pain and was trying to cheer her up. Soon he succeeded. The thought that, fell into his brain
like a stone in a lake, stirring the waters. A few moments later Calm returned to his spirit.
Remained pure and calm as the lake.

One day, suddenly entering the room of his brother, he found himself examining a revolver.

Seeing it tried to hide in the drawer of the table that was open and turned red.

- What were you doing?

- Nothing in this box to search for papers,
I found myself with a gun that I no longer remember I had, and I was
watching.

Cecilia did not believe a word. Since experienced some concern that forced her to watch more than
before.

It took two months. The unfortunate young man, but persisted in the same secluded life dark, showed
some vague signs of greening. Once in a while out riding. Had spoken to his father to make
a trip to Italy, which still did not know. Force that made up the sap back to his being withered,
was a sweet thought, as sweet as embarrassing, carefully hiding around the world. However, one
afternoon when I was chatting affectionately with his sister, after many detours, and turning
red to the ears, asked Ventura. What was it news? Cecilia replied coldly with few words as possible.
Poor Gonzalo! If I knew that this woman traitor by those who wondered, Far from being repentant, churned
furiously against his family, covers all of insults, threatening to be delivered as the first
man to come out of the prison scandal to be arrogant and insolent language to the superior of the convent!

Since
that day, lost and shortness, often asked for it, like to lie in
conversation, without ever made him give up this dry tone that Cecilia
would answer, and the speed with which change the subject.

What Don Rosendo feared by Ocaña letters sent to him, came to an end.

One day, superior of the Ventura advised that he had fled to asylum in company by all accounts,
the Duke of lathes. "The great humanitarian," as he called the Faro On one occasion, he received
the news with stoic courage. Indeed, what was that purely worth individual afflicted him, compared
with universal pain, with walking slow and sure of humanity to their destinations? In those days
I had just read a famous French author booklet entitled The Crowd. He dazzled his brains scrambled
with its great historical synthesis, which helped him not a little to withstand the blow. Sought,
however, that his son does not hear the news. I had the same confidence in elevation its spirit
and scope of his views. Some days it was hidden. Ran after people not knowing who bring her back.
Gonzalo, who every morning first thing was by Saloncillo, read in a press as infamous as hypocritical
Sarrio Young. "Circle of the species population - said - that a woman, the protagonist of a
drama loving happened not long ago, has eloped with her lover's haven where his family was
incarcerated. Feel that this rumor is confirmed by directly affecting people well known and
esteemed in society Sarrio. "

Gonzalo still felt something was about to tear it tore into the chest. Left drop the paper. Smiling
nervously, and with strange high-pitched voice, he went to Don Feliciano
Gomez, who was the only person there:

- I know you think the z. ..

My wife has run away with her pimp, huh?

Don Feliciano looked surprised.

Although he was a man who understood little smile, seeing him smile
that way was overwhelmed, and he replied sadly:

- Yes, Gonzalito,
yes.

I knew that you had not yet passed the ultimate ... In truth, after of what happened, this final
blow should not take you by surprise ... Boto brake, you should assume
where he had to stop.

- And to me, what? - Cried the unhappy young
woman with the same smile, showing his body an exaggerated concern
.-- That escapes ... Good!

... God blessed Go ... Nothing I have already to do with it ... Ah! If the law would allow me
to marry! ... Not happen a month without it ... And why not, we will see, and why should I not
be able to do?

... Anyway, if I marry for life, temporarily marry me ... I will take around a good girl, huh,
Don Feliciano? And walk with God ... It will be the end of the one p. .. profession, while
my wife is a hobby ...

As he spoke these ugly words, circled the room, took off his hat, shrugged and made other gestures
extravagant. Finally laughed.

- Look, Gonzalillo - Feliciano said .-- just spent a bald ... but
times will come better.

After the bad always comes good. The things of the world must be taken with cachaça my boy. Growing
up in disgust and bile in the stomach, what is achieved? ... Here I am me. Last month lost a boat
... Everyone came to comfort me thinking he was desperate. I answered: It is true that I lost Juanito,
but, if he had lost Carmen, would not it be much worse? Same thing could lose one another,
because they were both at sea. You have been a disappointment: well ... but you have health.
Would not it be worse also you to put yourself sick? You have to think all my boy. Health is the
first ... You eat well, take good shots, and go ahead! than others and forget ...

Gonzalo out of the Club without saying goodbye, leaving the good Don
Feliciano with the word in the mouth.

At home himself familiar with Don Rosendo Ventura drain. Against what everyone presumed, not made
a deep impression. On the contrary, from that day on it a trend señalóse to cheer, and participate
in social commerce, not surprisingly, left in the population. Began visiting the homes of
friends, to appear in the cafe, walking through the streets, to chat, discuss. He did not talk
about leaving. Until, with great astonishment of the village, one of the dances that took
place in the Lyceum, danced all night as a pollastre that pisase the room first.

However, Cecilia was very restless. Animation that his brother was so untimely, more like a nervous
breakdown. Above all, the strange smile, like a grimace, that was falling from the lips to
read the newsletter of the Young Sarrio, made her shudder at times.

Then came what was natural. After that insane excitement, wine, after a few days a deep, dark
depression. He spent three without leaving your room, not just dish test some of which Cecilia
had, and what is even worse, unable to sleep. With open eyes and ecstatic, he spent hours and
hours lying in bed, looking at darkness. On the third night, at about three light lit, dressed
and started writing a long letter to his uncle. Then he wrote another one with about Cecilia. Closed
and placed on the table first, so that they look suddenly pulled out a cigarette, lit it in the
light spark plug, and began pacing the room. Before he threw his cigarette end. He opened the
desk drawer and pulled out the revolver which he kept there. Brought to light saw that was
downloaded, which does not fail to surprise. He was almost certain to have loaded For a month,
more or less. He searched the box of capsules and not found. How very strange! He soon remembered
that Cecilia had been with him in the hand, and a sweet smile sad and drew on his lips. He went
to get their hands on guns. Found them equally discharged. The cartridges were missing from their
site. He remained motionless and pensive long time. Then, as if awakening from a dream, he
shook his head and sighed. He put on his hat, opened the door and down the stairs with great
secrecy. Passing the door of the main floor, hit her ear. He listened a moment, the face haggard,
his hair bristling. He had clearly heard the voice of his wife calling him from inside. After the
hallucination, continued to fall, opened the outer door with the key hanging pin, and hit
the streets.

Had not yet dawned, but in the East seemed a faint precursor of the
day clearly.

The morning was cool. A water falling from the sky fog menudísima marina. Without hesitation
he went the dock. He climbed to the second wall and looked at the sea, whose horizon at that time
was not very long, because of the fog. The previous days had blown the northwest, and had curled
and stirred up the bottom. Big waves spreading swollen from afar their riding huge roar and
crashed against the front of the Pawn, spitting the foam to the top. The boy's eyes encountered
a tender that was entering the port and danced like a walnut shell on the waves. That entry was
interested of course. Continued every twist and turn with eager attention, as if it will be
something. After fourth time, when it was moored to the dock, he felt the spur new thinking. Sighed
and whispered, "Come." And went on, rubbing against the railing of the waist wall. At a certain
place, a wave stronger than the other bathed him entirely spray. He gave her bathroom unannounced
good impression, we cooled the skin. Waited in the same place for a while, to see if another
equally strong, but not wine. And undertook gear again. When he was at the end of the pier,
lay face down on the parapet and watched with grim fixity waves arrived. I was in the same place,
was some years, had conversation with his uncle to inform him that he left Cecilia and he married
Ventura. The words of the old, harsh, angry, sounded again in his ears. "What reason was my uncle!"
- He thought, without looking away from the sea.

- Bah! - Murmured after a few moments - if a hundred times I saw you in that case, a hundred times
would do the same. There are things fatal.

I take this woman in the blood as a poison, and can only the last drop out .-- He spent another
moment thinking. The sea water that had bathed and the sky was falling constantly, we chilled
to the bone. The morning was dirty Cinderella. It was, no, that beautiful night had fallen
on his face also after talk to your uncle. Then the radiant beauty of the sky, studded with stars,
the clean glass of water, where Cabrillo moonlight, the soft breeze playfully they spoke a language
of death, yes, but sweet, contained and intimate. It was a friendly voice that invited him
to rest. But now I heard was a cry of despair, a threat: "Come, vente. Death is very sad, but life
is sadder still. "

- Conclude - said, raising his head. He moved the body, stretched
out his arms.

At that time thought that self-preservation would make him swim safely, and stopped. He looked at
all parties seeking some weight. Their eyes met a looper quechemarín lying beyond down in the
first spring. Fell for her, the knife cut a piece of rope from a boat it is tied up, lifted his
arms up the stairs athlete and a gymnast who would to show to the public of the enormous power of
their muscles. Once up, tied the rope neck. He stood on the parapet, and embraced the anchor was
thrown overboard. His body colossus opened a big gap there, which was closed immediately. Extinguished
the deep sea that spark of life, like many others, with relentless indifference.

A sailor who saw him from afar, he ran to the spot shouting

- Man Overboard!

Another three or four of the next boats followed.

Within minutes the formation of a group of twenty or thirty at the
top of the wall.

- Who was that?

Did you know? - Asked who had seen him.

- I think it was Don Gonzalo.

-
Does the mayor?

- Yes.

- It would be great, would be fine ... Reterroías
women!

The new spread instantly through the town.

He went to the dock a crowd of people. Two men in a boat oar crossed with a long background, without
finding the body of unfortunate young man. After he stumbled. He brought a hook, and pulling
him out afloat at the same time as Don Melchor, haggard, agitated, no hat, arrived at the pier
the terrible news release.

- Son of my soul - the poor old man shouted over the water to see the body of her nephew. Her
knees buckled and fell fainting into the arms of those who accompanied him.

The body of the suicide spread on the dock while waiting in court. That show was deeply impressed
all bystanders, among them were people of the two rival camps.

After the judge arrived and instructed the due diligence, placed on a stretcher the body, and
transported him to his house, because Don Rosendo, who knew the story, as claimed. It was a sad
procession through the streets to the town.

Neighbors peered from balconies, pale, restless, with sadness in his face. Gonzalo enjoyed
general sympathies.

Don Rosendo, possessed of sharp pain, he would not see the political
corpse of his son.

He shut himself in his room, but decided that is placed in the best room of the house on a table
covered velvet, which bring her flowers and wreaths everywhere, and prepare a funeral sumptuous.

Cecilia,
one of those heroic efforts that were seasoned to do about his soul and body, lock learned his
sentence at the bottom of the heart. Veíasela livid, yes, but quiet, having the house you need
to receive the body of his brother. When she arrived, she helped to put on the site after it
was shrouded.

Showered him with flowers, lit the candles, decorated the room with black crape. After the
body ruled that a Velascos Sister of Charity in her company.

They left him alone at last. They prayed on their knees for a long time. When they finished their
prayer, Cecilia asked the nun who went to the kitchen to give orders so that you do him, because
he was faint.

As the nun left, alzose strongly. And he took scissors, cut a lock of hair the head of his brother,
who hid in the breast.

Cut after his other, and trembling and agitated, put it in his hands
cross the body.

       Then he looked for a moment.

Y head down, covered his face with kisses inanimate.

The first and last that gave him.

The wife, the only real man's wife was unable to resist so much pain and fell to the ground
unconscious.

FIN

* * * * *

= WORKS OF PALACIO VALDES =

= The Master Octavio =.-- One vol.

= Martha and Mary =.-- One vol.

Translated into French, English, Swedish, Russian and tchèque.

= The romance of a patient =.-- One vol.

Translated into French and tchèque.

Water = strong = (novels and paintings) .-- A volume.

Translated into French, English, German, Dutch, Swedish and tchèque.
Spanish edition with notes and vocabulary in English. Edit Spanish
with English notes for the study of Spanish in England and the United
States of America.

= Riverita =-- A volume. Translated into French.

=
Maxi = (second part of Riverita) .-- A volume. Translated into English.

=
The Fourth =.-- One vol. Translated into French, English and Dutch.

La
Hermana San Sulpicio = =.-- One vol. Translated into French, English,
Dutch and Swedish.

= =.-- A foam volume. Translated into English.

=
=. Faith A volume .-- Translated into French, English and German.

=
El Grandee =.-- One vol. Translated into French and English.

= The
origin of thought =.-- One vol. Translated into French and English.

=
The nice people of Cadiz =.-- One vol. Translated into Dutch.

= The
Joy of Captain Ribot =.-- A Vol. Translated into French, English,
Dutch and Swedish. Spanish edition with notes and vocabulary in English.

=
The Lost Village =.-- One vol.

= Tristan, or pessimism =.-- One vol.
Translated into English.

Portraits = literary = (Speakers of the
Ateneo, Spanish novelists, New journey Parnassus) .-- A volume.

=
Papers of the Angelic Doctor =.-- Translated into German. These trifles, however,
once so familiar, had but the slightest hold of his attention, while deep within his mind he
was reviewing the gradual but marvellous change that had been wrought upon him by the search
to which he had devoted himself. He remembered how the night dew had fallen upon him,--how
the dark forest had whispered to him,--how the stars had gleamed upon him,--a simple and loving
man, watching his fire in the years gone by, and ever musing as it burned. He remembered with
what tenderness, with what love and sympathy for mankind and what pity for human guilt and
woe, he had first begun to contemplate those ideas which afterwards became the inspiration
of his life; with what reverence he had then looked into the heart of man, viewing it as a
temple originally divine, and, however desecrated, still to be held sacred by a brother; with
what awful fear he had deprecated the success of his pursuit, and prayed that the Unpardonable
Sin might never be revealed to him. Then ensued that vast intellectual development, which,
in its progress, disturbed the counterpoise between his mind and heart. The Idea that possessed
his life had operated as a means of education; it had gone on cultivating his powers to the
highest point of which they were susceptible; it had raised him from the level of an unlettered
laborer to stand on a star-lit eminence, whither the philosophers of the earth, laden with
the lore of universities, might vainly strive to clamber after him. So much for the intellect!
But where was the heart? That, indeed, had withered,--had contracted,--had hardened,--had perished!
It had ceased to partake of the universal throb. He had lost his hold of the magnetic chain
of humanity. He was no longer a brother-man, opening the chambers or the dungeons of our common
nature by the key of holy sympathy, which gave him a right to share in all its secrets; he
was now a cold observer, looking on mankind as the subject of his experiment, and, at length,
converting man and woman to be his puppets, and pulling the wires that moved them to such degrees
of crime as were demanded for his study.

Thus Ethan Brand became a fiend. He began to be so from the moment that his moral nature had
ceased to keep the pace of improvement with his intellect. And now, as his highest effort and
inevitable development,--as the bright and gorgeous flower, and rich, delicious fruit of his
life's labor,--he had produced the Unpardonable Sin!

"What more have I to seek? what more to achieve?" said Ethan Brand to himself. "My task is
done, and well done!"

Starting from the log with a certain alacrity in his gait and ascending the hillock of earth
that was raised against the stone circumference of the lime-kiln, he thus reached the top of
the structure. It was a space of perhaps ten feet across, from edge to edge, presenting a view
of the upper surface of the immense mass of broken marble with which the kiln was heaped. All
these innumerable blocks and fragments of marble were redhot and vividly on fire, sending up
great spouts of blue flame, which quivered aloft and danced madly, as within a magic circle,
and sank and rose again, with continual and multitudinous activity. As the lonely man bent
forward over this terrible body of fire, the blasting heat smote up against his person with
a breath that, it might be supposed, would have scorched and shrivelled him up in a moment.

Ethan Brand stood erect, and raised his arms on high. The blue flames played upon his face,
and imparted the wild and ghastly light which alone could have suited its expression; it was
that of a fiend on the verge of plunging into his gulf of intensest torment.

"O Mother Earth," cried he, "who art no more my Mother, and into whose bosom this frame shall
never be resolved! O mankind, whose brotherhood I have cast off, and trampled thy great heart
beneath my feet! O stars of heaven, that shone on me of old, as if to light me onward and upward!--farewell
all, and forever. Come, deadly element of Fire,-henceforth my familiar friend! Embrace me,
as I do thee!"

That night the sound of a fearful peal of laughter rolled heavily through the sleep of the
lime-burner and his little son; dim shapes of horror and anguish haunted their dreams, and
seemed still present in the rude hovel, when they opened their eyes to the daylight.

"Up, boy, up!" cried the lime-burner, staring about him. "Thank Heaven, the night is gone,
at last; and rather than pass such another, I would watch my lime-kiln, wide awake, for a twelvemonth.
This Ethan Brand, with his humbug of an Unpardonable Sin, has done me no such mighty favor,
in taking my place!"

He issued from the hut, followed by little Joe, who kept fast hold of his father's hand. The
early sunshine was already pouring its gold upon the mountain-tops, and though the valleys
were still in shadow, they smiled cheerfully in the promise of the bright day that was hastening
onward. The village, completely shut in by hills, which swelled away gently about it, looked
as if it had rested peacefully in the hollow of the great hand of Providence. Every dwelling
was distinctly visible; the little spires of the two churches pointed upwards, and caught a
fore-glimmering of brightness from the sun-gilt skies upon their gilded weather-cocks. The
tavern was astir, and the figure of the old, smoke-dried stage-agent, cigar in mouth, was seen
beneath the stoop. Old Graylock was glorified with a golden cloud upon his head. Scattered
likewise over the breasts of the surrounding mountains, there were heaps of hoary mist, in
fantastic shapes, some of them far down into the valley, others high up towards the summits,
and still others, of the same family of mist or cloud, hovering in the gold radiance of the
upper atmosphere. Stepping from one to another of the clouds that rested on the hills, and
thence to the loftier brotherhood that sailed in air, it seemed almost as if a mortal man might
thus ascend into the heavenly regions. Earth was so mingled with sky that it was a day-dream
to look at it.

To supply that charm of the familiar and homely, which Nature so readily adopts into a scene
like this, the stage-coach was rattling down the mountain-road, and the driver sounded his
horn, while Echo caught up the notes, and intertwined them into a rich and varied and elaborate
harmony, of which the original performer could lay claim to little share. The great hills played
a concert among themselves, each contributing a strain of airy sweetness.

Little Joe's face brightened at once.

"Dear father," cried he, skipping cheerily to and fro, "that strange man is gone, and the sky
and the mountains all seem glad of it!"

"Yes," growled the lime-burner, with an oath, "but he has let the fire go down, and no thanks
to him if five hundred bushels of lime are not spoiled. If I catch the fellow hereabouts again,
I shall feel like tossing him into the furnace!"

With his long pole in his hand, he ascended to the top of the kiln. After a moment's pause,
he called to his son.

"Come up here, Joe!" said he.

So little Joe ran up the hillock, and stood by his father's side. The marble was all burnt
into perfect, snow-white lime. But on its surface, in the midst of the circle,--snow-white
too, and thoroughly converted into lime,--lay a human skeleton, in the attitude of a person
who, after long toil, lies down to long repose. Within the ribs--strange to say--was the shape
of a human heart.

"Was the fellow's heart made of marble?" cried Bartram, in some perplexity at this phenomenon.
"At any rate, it is burnt into what looks like special good lime; and, taking all the bones
together, my kiln is half a bushel the richer for him."

So saying, the rude lime-burner lifted his pole, and, letting it fall upon the skeleton, the
relics of Ethan Brand were crumbled into fragments.

THE CANTERBURY PILGRIMS

The summer moon, which shines in so many a tale, was beaming over a broad extent of uneven
country. Some of its brightest rays were flung into a spring of water, where no traveller,
toiling, as the writer has, up the hilly road beside which it gushes, ever failed to quench
his thirst. The work of neat hands and considerate art was visible about this blessed fountain.
An open cistern, hewn and hollowed out of solid stone, was placed above the waters, which filled
it to the brim, but by some invisible outlet were conveyed away without dripping down its sides.
Though the basin had not room for another drop, and the continual gush of water made a tremor
on the surface, there was a secret charm that forbade it to overflow. I remember, that when
I had slaked my summer thirst, and sat panting by the cistern, it was my fanciful theory that
Nature could not afford to lavish so pure a liquid, as she does the waters of all meaner fountains.

While the moon was hanging almost perpendicularly over this spot, two figures appeared on the
summit of the hill, and came with noiseless footsteps down towards the spring. They were then
in the first freshness of youth; nor is there a wrinkle now on either of their brows, and yet
they wore a strange, old-fashioned garb. One, a young man with ruddy cheeks, walked beneath
the canopy of a broad-brimmed gray hat; he seemed to have inherited his great-grandsire's square-skirted
coat, and a waistcoat that extended its immense flaps to his knees; his brown locks, also,
hung down behind, in a mode unknown to our times. By his side was a sweet young damsel, her
fair features sheltered by a prim little bonnet, within which appeared the vestal muslin of
a cap; her close, long-waisted gown, and indeed her whole attire, might have been worn by some
rustic beauty who had faded half a century before. But that there was something too warm and
life-like in them, I would here have compared this couple to the ghosts of two young lovers
who had died long since in the glow of passion, and now were straying out of their graves,
to renew the old vows, and shadow forth the unforgotten kiss of their earthly lips, beside
the moonlit spring.

"Thee and I will rest here a moment, Miriam," said the young man, as they drew near the stone
cistern, "for there is no fear that the elders know what we have done; and this may be the
last time we shall ever taste this water."

Thus speaking, with a little sadness in his face, which was also visible in that of his companion,
he made her sit down on a stone, and was about to place himself very close to her side; she,
however, repelled him, though not unkindly.

"Nay, Josiah," said she, giving him a timid push with her maiden hand, "thee must sit farther
off, on that other stone, with the spring between us. What would the sisters say, if thee were
to sit so close to me?"

"But we are of the world's people now, Miriam," answered Josiah.

The girl persisted in her prudery, nor did the youth, in fact, seem altogether free from a
similar sort of shyness; so they sat apart from each other, gazing up the hill, where the moonlight
discovered the tops of a group of buildings. The same is true
with the scene, wonderful land, Palestine, the kingdom of Navarre, the rule Great Khan's palace
of Macedonia, not only ignores and misrepresents the surface of the land but also the planetary
system undergoes a radical change. Palm trees grow and tamarind around Moscow, Palestine and
Macedonia are covered with meadows and Norway and Switzerland, appear whales in the Mediterranean.
Events that begin a morning in Macedonia, they end up in the most natural on the evening of
that day, in a palace Babylon, and a princess of Aragon, caught in the evening in Sicily,
half discusses night without an interpreter with a Moor in Samarkand.

The Passion, a work in verse in different Filipino dialects, is not only the Passion of Christ
but includes a kind of short of sacred history.

Novenas are booklets devotees dedicated to a saint whose favor is invoked to obtain This or that
God favors. Consist of a set of sentences with regard to miracles and reflections on them
are made every day for nine consecutive days. "It is attributed to the Virgin Mary the origin
of the ninth, because she worships the number nine in memory of having been nine days which was
prevented for the Incarnation of the Divine Word and also for the nine months brought in her
virginal womb. "(Novena to Jesus, Mary and Joseph.

Manila, 1903, in the Exordium.)

Novenas offer a means of reaching the sky very simple what is asked them to patron saint. If
you get to win the sympathy and support of the employer or employers whose mediation be sought, they
can get everything, both in regard to our earthly life the future. It is an easy, it's like a
magical ceremony with its ritual consists of praise and humiliation, devotion, submission, awe,
and other manifestations propitiatory to win the sympathy and protection of the saint, then
follows the list of favors requested and are always met by God, as demonstrated by numerous examples that
the ninth lists carefully. All novenas are published with ecclesiastical permission, after
the prelate censorship review carefully the letter to see if there is something contrary to the
moral, healthy habits and absolute orthodoxy.

In a word, all are printed "With the necessary licenses."

The miracles mentioned in these novenas fits very well with the spells, magic and spells of
the early Filipinos who invoked the propitiation of divinities heathen, through ceremonies, sacrifices,
spells and incantations executed by their mangkukulam, babailanas
and other magicians, priests, healers, sorcerers and soothsayers they
refer to and list the ancient chronicles written by missionaries in
the Philippines.

Replacing the "hidden powers"

All the fear of the mysterious and the belief of the Filipinos in hidden powers removed health,
attracting misfortune, gave the victory and led to the disaster, was retained changing only the
spirits that governed life events and phenomena nature.

Patron Saints recommended by the missionaries came to replace the Anitos representatives of their
ancient ancestors, who were involved in their ancient idolatry in all circumstances of life.

When the missionaries preach their religion, condemned the ancient pagan superstitions, But a
new superstition taught more powerful than the original, not only for prestige new employers
all members of a heavenly court organized as an aristocracy terrestrial
and led by God the Creator of the World, but to use to communicate
with your God in the same language that is spoken by the people, the
Latin language, which priests raise their prayers and sang their songs.

Incantations

The Oremus, the Laus Deo, Agnus Dei, Deo Gratias, Nos cum prole pia, Benedicat Virgo Maria
Per omnia secula seculorum, eleyson Kyrie, Christe eleyson, fell into the category of spells
known by the names of Bolong and Mantala of primitive mangkukulam, manhihikup, mananangisama, etc.
etc., of the Gentiles Philippines. All of these Latin phrases reached a prestige so great that it looked
as irresistible to conquer invocatory formula God's will and is even
used to label any sect ridiculous as the Colorum, whose name comes
from the mispronunciation of "secular seculorum" ending many sentences
with Latin incomprehensible but used by the ignorance of many.

Agnus Dei qui phrase Tollis peccata mundi is used as a spell in which each word incomprehensible,
has a sacred character so that if anyone says that despises Qui Tolis, would be regarded as a blasphemer,
because the Qui Tolis is sacred, divine. A child, after praying the Trisagion, said in protest:
"It annoys me so much Kirileson (Kyrie Eleison). "His mother then punished him by making fun
of God.

Another child came Qui Tolis call a dog corrects her aunt saying,
"I never put the name of God an animal.

"

Array of magical invocations

All this constitutes a veritable arsenal of magical invocations, whose effectiveness relies to
prevent evil, free from danger, make a good, achieving grace. As an example the virtue of the pleas
and what can be achieved by simply saying frequently Jesus, Mary, Joseph, who is the "Holy Trinity
of the Earth," are the following cases: (Ninth of Jesus, Mary and Joseph. Manila, 1903). A man
of bad life going in the middle a night in front of a church in San Francisco in Cuzco, Peru,
saw lights in the cemetery and, realizing that it was a funeral, went to the scene to witness.
Suddenly he perceived that there was a throne on which Jesus was sitting in the middle of
Mary and Joseph. Then along came many demons each with his book in his hand. One began its case
against a woman of evil life of Buenos Aires. "Jesus says the ninth She spoke out against the
death sentence along with sudden and eternal damnation. " (P. 7.) Missing the devil to go to
execute the sentence. Another demon read his book In Chile there was another prostitute. "Jesus
spoke against her death sentence and condemnation. "(p. 8.) The devil ran to serve his sentence.
The defendant filed lead to a poor man living in Cuzco, and this was precisely the same man
who stopped to witness the spectacle of the cemetery. "By going the just judge to pronounce
against him sentence of death and damnation, Mary and Saint Joseph knelt before the Divine
Master asking for it, claiming he had often relied on their most holy calling names thereunder
* * *. "Having Jesus denied his forgiveness, his parents returned beg, and seeing that failed
to soften for forgiveness, the Blessed Virgin Blessed showed his son the breasts that had suckled,
and showed him the Holy Patriarch hands that had supported his work.

"(p. 8.) Jesus then pardoned by a grace that can only be called stomach
grateful.

Great incentive for crime!

The invocation, "Jesus, Mary and Joseph," acting as a magic formula, he saved that man, had not made
more meritorious than the flatter the vanity of the "Trinity of the Earth." There is in the
same novena one CONSIDERATION FOR THIS WONDERFUL and that to achieve the amendment of our lives,
in full view of the favor that were supported Jesus, Mary and Joseph
as devotee finished yet so sinful, it was necessary to imitate in
his oft-repeated invocation all the days of evil, "Jesus, Mary and
Joseph."

(P. 10).

The man had no other merit, nor is it advisable to have one, just say the magic invocation
and to act as he wants in security free from punishment. What a great encouragement to the crime!

Another
notable case

Another notable case of the effects of the invocation is a Dominican friar Fray Juan Masias who,
for over twelve years, being in his dark cell, in prayer, it came to him many demons and dragged
him and treating him badly pounded word and work, but that he was free from them saying: "Jesus
the Savior, Mary and Joseph are with me." Other demons were sometimes much crowd and noise and
taking him by the feet he drew dragging the bedroom to the cloister, a slap and beat him, others
stepped on his stomach and head, others scratched his face and threw out his eyes, but invoking
the names Jesus, Mary and Joseph, came and left him.

"(p. 14.) The most admirable is that the monk had suffered the invocation
after the abuses mentioned, so I had the condescension to allow the
demons for some time to have fun at his expense.

Economic Fun

At the same monk, "at other times of prayer going to church, demons caught him and pulled her,
and threw him into the air so high, passing over the roof of the hall Chapter House, which
divides the first cloister of the second, coming this fall. There he waited other demons and
receiving, throwing him again in the same way, giving to him again in the main cloister not get
a word of anger or suffering until invoking the sacred name of Jesus, Mary and Joseph, let him.
"(p. 15). Who, reading this, do not envy the friar as entertaining as a fun and economy? And
why not hell be grateful to receive it in the other yard, instead
of letting it crashed into the ground?

After relating the wonders mentioned others, read in the ninth the
following considerations: "What costs us accustomed work to repeat
our prayers the sweet names of Jesus, Mary and Joseph?

"(p. 27.)

Infernal power

Each step is amplified, magnified in these novenas infernal power. Not only puts the Devil among
the enemies of the soul, with our own body and humanity, but which always tremble with their
wiles, we consider weak to resist and even seem to fear that God himself does not know how to defend
the devil, because at every step fuel is God and put it on guard against the power of hell. "Assist
us enabling from heaven, our deliverer very strong in this struggle with the powers of darkness;
and as once freed the Infant Jesus of imminent danger to life, and
now stand God's Holy Church from the snares of his enemies and from
all adversity, and each us protect us with perpetual sponsorship *
* * "(p. 54).

(Offering to the Blessed. Rosario Manila, 1905.)

The Devil's obsession leaves no man day and night, "Mercy, my God,
I get hit the devil, all day challenges and disturbs me, "read a prayer
of St. Vincent Ferrer (His ninth, pg.

12).

Another miracle

The next miracle reveals the tricks of the devil and shows at the same time that souls can not be
as readily condemn the deadly comes to protecting a powerful patron. "True Man, it says on the Ninth
of San Vicente (p. 15), gave the devil his soul with signed card from his hand, and listening to
preach the Holy begged hiciese the devil is the restituyese.

Holy stood in prayer and brought the devil visibly and ordered him
to hand over the card to the man, witnessing this miracle many thousands
of people.

"

Simplicities of saints

This fear of the devil is mad because of some errors as mentioned in the following miracle (Nine of
San Vicente, pg. 18). "In Trayguerra hearing a simple young man preach San Vicente the ugliness
of evil, asked God to show him to quarrel with him. Happened to pass a poor old, born dumb, ugly
and poorly dressed, carrying a sickle in his hand. Judging the lad who was the devil, acometióla
furious quitóla sickle and reaped the hands, ears and noses. Cried the distraught woman, as voices
could not move, was howling and then the simple stabbed him, saying,
Come and see what put the devil.

"Believing that God allowed such infamy, is a gross insult to God. It is true that the act was running
a simple boy, but is simpler than the work of the Holy in speaking of the physical ugliness of
the devil, when, according to all understand, the devil is a spirit.

"In Taula, says the Ninth (p. 21), spent two Moors before an image
of San Vicente, one took off his hat, the other not.

Presto paid for it: for the moment, without knowing by whom, gave such a blow, which fell to
the ground, gave him a fever and she died. "It is admirable how he knew that was a slap, and
could not be more cruel miracle, not by the insignificance of failure,
as for being a Muslim or believe or understand that the Christian
superstition.

A devotee who resorts to Santa Filomena, asks your protection against the devil (Ninth, pg. 22)
and says: "Satan as a hungry lion, turn around; his ministers are encouraged each other to
break me, my weakness I am also the enemy of my very soul * * *. "

As I said, novenas serve to implore God's mercy using intervention
of a saint or the Virgin, and to get a need or a whim in life.

Nothing like having more encouraging news about the origin of the novena to St. Anthony of Padua
that " says was revealed by the Holy * * * and devotees can do it with great confidence to
achieve through them what they want.

"(Novena to San Antonio, Manila, 1909, pg. 5.)

"San Antonio revealed himself to his devout how to do it" (p. 6).

Who asks receives

The Maria de los Dolores (Manila, 1910, pg. 5), is "to get what you want in any claim either
the soul or body. "

The ninth of San Vicente Ferrer, "although it can be done at home, it will be much better in the
church because there who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, BY GOD SAYS THE SAME " (Page 5
of your Novena. Manila, 1917).

San Ramon Nonnato is "Master of the farmers and their livestock. A wonderful antidote against fever.
Universal refuge to heal all diseases and pain. Singular Protector of women who called him on his
dangerous deliveries, and the sterile, seeking comfort of their sponsorship. "Thus says the
cover of the ninth, Manila, 1918 .--" Only by invoking your name, to worship his holy relics,
and by drinking the water that passes by it, makes thousands the Holy wonders "(p. 6).

"I said a devotee, I have so much faith and experience in San Ramon, who I respect for their
environment asked God has given me everything, and for the truth, I swear and sign the above.
"(IX, pg. 15.)

A great virtue persuasive way to earn God's will and make it what
you want, is praying the Trisagion.

It seems that during a period of great upheaval geological and meteorological conditions experienced
in Constantinople in the year 447, occurred (Trisagion seraphic, Manila, 1889, pg. 7) that "a child
of tender years was carried by the air being eyewitnesses all campers, out of sight. After
a long period, returned to earth just as he had ascended to heaven, spoke in the presence of the
Patriarch the Emperor, all the wondering multitude, who had heard the angels sing this concert:
Holy God, Holy Mighty, Holy Immortal, have mercy on us. "The child
then died. The Emperor ordered that all sang a sacred song, and immediately
stopped earthquakes and quieted the weather disturbance. "Hence the
use of Trisagio as a form for invoking the Holy Trinity in dire and
fateful times "(p. 78.) Among other things called for in the Trisagion
restricted to the following: "In your anger and Anger: Three and Lord
deliver us - From the snares Triune God .-- From the snares and vicinity
the devil * * * of all anger, hatred and malice * * * Of plagues,
plague, famine, earthquakes * * * From our enemies and their machinations,
save us "(pp. 20-21).

Memories of cannibalism

Although Trinidad
is composed, as we know, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, and Trisagion
is invoked and calls on the three people at once, however, there are
other ways to achieve separately invoking divine favor to a single
person of the Trinity. Thus, the ninth of Jesus in the Eucharist is
called the Father through the intercession of the Son, or better that,
in just a viscera of the Son, an organ of his body, the heart, or
more properly, Sacred Heart of Jesus. But after one instant's hesitation, they
opened their arms, and sealed their resolve with as pure and fond an embrace as ever youthful
love had hallowed.

"We will not go back," said they. "The world never can be dark to us, for we will always love
one another."

Then the Canterbury pilgrims went up the hill, while the poet chanted a drear and desperate
stanza of the Farewell to his Harp, fitting music for that melancholy band. They sought a home
where all former ties of nature or society would be sundered, and all old distinctions levelled,
and a cold and passionless security be substituted for mortal hope and fear, as in that other
refuge of the world's weary outcasts, the grave. The lovers drank at the Shaker spring, and
then, with chastened hopes, but more confiding affections, went on to mingle in an untried life.

THE DEVIL IN MANUSCRIPT

On a bitter evening of December, I arrived by mail in a large town, which was then the residence
of an intimate friend, one of those gifted youths who cultivate poetry and the belles-lettres,
and call themselves students at law. My first business, after supper, was to visit him at the
office of his distinguished instructor. As I have said, it was a bitter night, clear starlight,
but cold as Nova Zembla,--the shop-windows along the street being frosted, so as almost to
hide the lights, while the wheels of coaches thundered equally loud over frozen earth and pavements
of stone. There was no snow, either on the ground or the roofs of the houses. The wind blew
so violently, that I had but to spread my cloak like a main-sail, and scud along the street
at the rate of ten knots, greatly envied by other navigators, who were beating slowly up, with
the gale right in their teeth. One of these I capsized, but was gone on the wings of the wind
before he could even vociferate an oath.

After this picture of an inclement night, behold us seated by a great blazing fire, which looked
so comfortable and delicious that I felt inclined to lie down and roll among the hot coals.
The usual furniture of a lawyer's office was around us,--rows of volumes in sheepskin, and
a multitude of writs, summonses, and other legal papers, scattered over the desks and tables.
But there were certain objects which seemed to intimate that we had little dread of the intrusion
of clients, or of the learned counsellor himself, who, indeed, was attending court in a distant
town. A tall, decanter-shaped bottle stood on the table, between two tumblers, and beside a
pile of blotted manuscripts, altogether dissimilar to any law documents recognized in our courts.
My friend, whom I shall call Oberon,--it was a name of fancy and friendship between him and
me,--my friend Oberon looked at these papers with a peculiar expression of disquietude.

"I do believe," said he, soberly, "or, at least, I could believe, if I chose, that there is
a devil in this pile of blotted papers. You have read them, and know what I mean,--that conception
in which I endeavored to embody the character of a fiend, as represented in our traditions
and the written records of witchcraft. Oh, I have a horror of what was created in my own brain,
and shudder at the manuscripts in which I gave that dark idea a sort of material existence!
Would they were out of my sight!"

"And of mine, too," thought I.

"You remember," continued Oberon, "how the hellish thing used to suck away the happiness of
those who, by a simple concession that seemed almost innocent, subjected themselves to his
power. Just so my peace is gone, and all by these accursed manuscripts. Have you felt nothing
of the same influence?"

"Nothing," replied I, "unless the spell be hid in a desire to turn novelist, after reading
your delightful tales."

"Novelist!" exclaimed Oberon, half seriously. "Then, indeed, my devil has his claw on you!
You are gone! You cannot even pray for deliverance! But we will be the last and only victims;
for this night I mean to burn the manuscripts, and commit the fiend to his retribution in the
flames."

"Burn your tales!" repeated I, startled at the desperation of the idea.

"Even so," said the author, despondingly. "You cannot conceive what an effect the composition
of these tales has had on me. I have become ambitious of a bubble, and careless of solid reputation.
I am surrounding myself with shadows, which bewilder me, by aping the realities of life. They
have drawn me aside from the beaten path of the world, and led me into a strange sort of solitude,--a
solitude in the midst of men,-where nobody wishes for what I do, nor thinks nor feels as I
do. The tales have done all this. When they are ashes, perhaps I shall be as I was before they
had existence. Moreover, the sacrifice is less than you may suppose, since nobody will publish
them."

"That does make a difference, indeed," said I.

"They have been offered, by letter," continued Oberon, reddening with vexation, "to some seventeen
booksellers. It would make you stare to read their answers; and read them you should, only
that I burnt them as fast as they arrived. One man publishes nothing but school-books; another
has five novels already under examination."

"What a voluminous mass the unpublished literature of America must be!" cried I.

"Oh, the Alexandrian manuscripts were nothing to it!" said my friend. "Well, another gentleman
is just giving up business, on purpose, I verily believe, to escape publishing my book. Several,
however, would not absolutely decline the agency, on my advancing half the cost of an edition,
and giving bonds for the remainder, besides a high percentage to themselves, whether the book
sells or not. Another advises a subscription."

"The villain!" exclaimed I.

"A fact!" said Oberon. "In short, of all the seventeen booksellers, only one has vouchsafed
even to read my tales; and he--a literary dabbler himself, I should judge--has the impertinence
to criticise them, proposing what he calls vast improvements, and concluding, after a general
sentence of condemnation, with the definitive assurance that he will not be concerned on any
terms."

"It might not be amiss to pull that fellow's nose," remarked I.

"If the whole 'trade' had one common nose, there would be some satisfaction in pulling it,"
answered the author. "But, there does seem to be one honest man among these seventeen unrighteous
ones; and he tells me fairly, that no American publisher will meddle with an American work,--seldom
if by a known writer, and never if by a new one,--unless at the writer's risk."

"The paltry rogues!" cried I. "Will they live by literature, and yet risk nothing for its sake?
But, after all, you might publish on your own account."

"And so I might," replied Oberon. "But the devil of the business is this. These people have
put me so out of conceit with the tales, that I loathe the very thought of them, and actually
experience a physical sickness of the stomach, whenever I glance at them on the table. His meditation
of religious broke with his thoughts of man, and if a strong desire or fear of danger brought
the prayer to his lips, and the thoughts of the sacred severe Prayer slid a woman's name, entering
his image among gay; austere reflections, like a magician come in a choir of monks.

IX.

Josephine entered the room of the Duchess really determined to discover the inclination to Felix
felt his mother asking for help could be a decent man home, but against Margarita energy and resolution
were on the ground; began to mourn, and faltered amid fears that had been proposed that clear. The
Duchess, kissing her affectionately, dried her tears, he heard the confession of budding love,
and dismissing her request with tenderness, took her to the door
of his cabinet, ensuring that the interview as short possible.

Left alone, the Duchess cried too, but not with the tears peaceful
and pure girl, but bitter, bitterly, with tears in late spring and
sear to slip his face.

Determined to speak with her husband, asking if he was sent home, and when answered that the Lord
had not left, he walked into the office, where he found the Duke browsing the Senate rules. Caused
him to stop reading, and addressing the issue head told that by his own interest, not to sin of ingratitude
and Josephine Grace, it was necessary Felix Hamlet return as before frequenting the house.
Examinose between spouses of the question, and the Duke, who already was fond of everything
that had taste of discussion took the opportunity, talking at length about their honor and prestige,
it does not hurt your stay dignity, and another portion of that would
have made things any gossip, words, words words.

Finally, Margarita, with that touch that only women have, resolved the difficulties by proposing to
give a dance to celebrate the senate, being sent to Felix, as usual, corresponding invitation,
which, after what happened, came to be as a satisfaction without disgrace the offender could
make amends to the victim. Accepted the idea, Margarita left Duke to continue its consideration
of the Rules of High House, and back to his room, after have closed the door carefully to avoid
being suddenly startled, made into a chair, leaned against one of his elbows wide arms, and hiding
his face with , letting the tears bursting through her rosy fingers, frowning and red eyelids,
looked thoughtful, and nobody could find to see if that lady was
a mother who imposed a sacrifice or a woman whose jealousy harassed.

      

* * * * *

It fixed the day of the party, and began preparations. The tapestry and adorned took possession
of the rooms that had to be checked, he built a gallery foliage which put in communication
the main hall of the ground floor with spacious conservatory glass in the rose garden; cubriéronse
iron columns entwined litter, were hung from the ceiling of glass apparatus for gas were put
in angles the best sculptures in the house, making the white marble highlight on funds dark foliage
lanterns were prepared for the booths in the park, God order in the kitchen for dinner was sumptuous,
rushed all the treats you can gold suit the taste, and a legion of artisans invaded the palace for many
days, arranging things so that when two hours before the Dukes inspected dance all preparations,
the new senator, lolling on a couch with the dignity his inauguration,
and looking at his wife with conceited satisfaction, exclaimed: -
"He'll be fine."

And it was. From eleven in the evening a long line of cars was slowly leaving the Palace lobby
hundreds of guests, ladies, wrapped in delicious wraps, got out of their sedans and Clarens,
coquettishly revealing footwear feet rested a moment in the stirrup, while with his hand, gloved
to the elbow, picked up the long tail adorned with valuable lace, the servants were ordered to
return at dawn, the and curious onlookers, parked across the street, watched those doing great things
comments, suggested by the beauty of women or the envy of wealth, the halls were filling, and heat
and lights agglomeration was engendered lively and colorful faces. Here we heard praises of the homeowners,
said out loud, there were grouped others mumble censorship; about looking for acquaintances,
greeted all the Dukes, the more serious or curious discussed in the classroom immediately
collected works of art with exquisite taste, luxury or books, put on the tables of very rich deposits;
and young people, together with the old Gayelette, standing in the door, spent reviewing the
entering, changing handshakes, saying compliments or looks that seemed to receive signs.

A little past midnight the room offered such an appearance of luxury and wealth, joy reigned appear
to have much sway over the souls of all those people, so much enjoyment was reflected on their
faces, that it seemed that nobody had that joyous mob who knew grief or pain.

They, bound with tight outfits that oppress to model the shapes, with their long skirts pinned flowers
and lace, with their crowns with jewels on the forehead, beauty print in the face and joy in their
eyes, received the homage of convoluted sentences, not always frank with his worshipers tried
to take them. They dressed the harsh and unfriendly tails, were struggling to reach some of the most
effect caused, for on the floor displaying his wit, looking almost insolently at married, flirting
with the prevention widows, and trying to inquire the dowry of singles. Towards the end of the
hall could be seen some couples themselves busier than the others, in which she seemed resigned
to grant what she wanted to grant, as he persisted in asking what later was to tired. Ran
in a circle of politics, it was said quietly scandal week, speaking in his ear and in secret
the names of the protagonists. A gentleman surreptitiously approached to adjoining rooms,
watching the moment to reach out vegueros delicious spread on silver trays. The music dominated
intervals The buzz of conversation, the atmosphere was loaded until it becomes annoying, the
temperature increased; the parched environment of the room seemed to struggle with fresh penetrated
the garden by the broad balconies in soft bursts, and among the sea of ​​light or whirlpool color,
the odor was perceived that were the aromas of flowers, perfumes toiletries and the heat of the sweaty
bodies.

The duchess, surrounded by her most intimate rivals of whoever received
the accolades came tribute to his good taste, almost all cut from
the same pattern, very few clever or well said.

His suit was the subject of gossip among the ladies, admiration among men. The dress of white
satin, whose sculptural folds the light was broken as a flexible marble had arrived from Paris
that morning, and both wearing black pearls the ears were worth a fortune. Beside his mother, Josefina
seemed the new outbreak of beautiful flower: she was like the roses that have exhausted their
finery pump deploying all its petals to the light touch, she, like those buds starting parted
to spread his scent around soft and weak. Her dress was white too, but in the headdress and lit,
the flowers replaced wings jewelry.

The stirring excitement that made her more beautiful. Anxious and upset, constantly looking
everywhere, wondering: - will not come?

Answered as briefly as I could disdainful and dismissive, and occasionally looked fondly at
her mother, who first appeared avoid the eyes of his daughter.

Finally, the girl was in love go to Felix, who, hailing the move to
different people, came to the Duchess, changed both simple phrases
of courtesy, then went near Josephine and a moment later saw them
confused between groups of couples who seemed crazy impelled to move
by the notes of a waltz by Strauss.

Lazarus was picked up and read when it came to his ears the lively bustle of the holiday. Then
closed the book, opened the balcony and the cool night breeze brought
him clear and separate the passionate phrases of music, as if the
world, with the voice of Mermaid I would like to wrest from loneliness.

Fell into the garden, approached a fence, and hid in a bushes whose branches intertwined climbing
the thick iron bars, held out overlooking the living room. His look is all encompassing. After
a moment, became the surprise in amazement, his eyes dazzled by the clarity, the groups were
discovering, isolating the figures, looking at the faces, seeing emerge from a confused sea
of ​​lights and colors forms and the appearance of things. The cliques formed as soon dissolved,
the strange amalgam that produced in the table the black suits of the men standing on light
dresses of the women continued to move from shadows that crossed to the fence, cutting off his
view, the infinite variety of attitudes, the state of the spirits reflected in faces, testifying
in one of indifference, in another of jealousy, showing the cold here of apathy, there's nervous
impatience, all that set of riches for him unknown luxury ignored, he produced a strange impression,
strong because it was new and powerful it was continuous. The sight of this ceaseless movement,
light glinted in gems and necklaces, ladies, a fresh-faced and wild flowers, withered other
by cosmetics or years, decorated with silks of all shades, bare backs and breasts to own attempt revealed
how little they covered the ceiling, the sultry air and flawed that escaped through the gate, stun the
priest had finished, but why stop looking forward, thinking every moment to discover new smite
your imagination calm down his agitated nerves. There was a time when the music switched off
all other noise; rhythm and melodic sound of the notes seemed to crawl like dawn of spring planting
of roses turns subdued and languid sweetest chord suddenly were exchanged in fools gladly explosion
sounds, and harmonies were scattered like flying sighs to take refuge in the folds of the broad
draperies, producing combinations rare that were lost, some involved among other twists, like
rustling silk and burst kisses tablets. The couples were gliding swiftly to the gate in wild
confusion, disappearing and turning to pass which figures of a magic lantern, until silence suddenly
the orchestra and that rapid movement suspended, Lazarus saw him coming, still impelled by the
last lap of the waltz, one woman and one man, Felix and Josephine. He the encircled her waist
drawing her to feel confused breaths as she completely abandoned, drifting. They came to where
he was the priest, and unemployed the girl, moving the range of pearl and lace at her agitated
breast, leaned on the arm Village, while he whispered in her ear a sentence, paid to smile
sorceress world. Lazarus, holding tightly to the railing, looked not caring to be seen, without
thinking had not seen eyes for each other. Beside himself, agitated by a feeling unknown to
him, all the bitterness felt rush of human suffering, and as if your blood boil and ferment
crowding to obscure that poor brain, the idea of ​​hatred stood In the terrible and powerful.
There was no crime or shame then that no one believed capable of committing; and measuring
the speed of thought with his innocence, greater even than his misery, he wondered, a wicked
start, if it was divine justice that tolerated the torment.

Under the priest's cassock for the first time pulsed in the heart of man's pulse wrong. The
minister of God suffered as the creatures of clay, and soul of immaculate purity, his gentleness,
his kindness evangelical point was overthrown by anger, hatred and revenge. The one time it
seemed more than ever created by the Lord with his bone bone and flesh of his flesh, promised
by the desire and nature to be satisfied of his love, the woman who was the emblem of his ideal and
his happiness was in the arms of another. Those irons that separated them and that he unnecessarily
shaking with impotent force, were their own votes and that supreme
moment of his life, the solemn ratification of the infamous law that
said: "Do not love it."

Feeling dying, he dropped his arms in dismay, and all his anger was dissolved in two tears rolled
slowly down her face burned. There are souls who instinctively reject evil. Hatred passed without
stopping on the spirit of Lazarus as the drop of water sliding by the hot iron. Forces lacked,
and while the happy sounds of the party, converted into mysterious voices in fantasy, they called
him wanting to get drunk on scents of unknown pleasures, he yielded ground, breathless.

The dance was at its greatest moments of brilliance, and animation,
generated by the crowd, resulted in a continuous murmur, which could
just dominate from unequal intervals the orchestra brass instruments.

The room looked like a focus of intense clarity. The shaking gas flames were reproduced to
infinity in the large Venetian mirrors, to multiplying images, creating a strange confusion and
disorder began to reign itself that all place to have fun at the same time. Inside there were all
joys and sorrows, was not was nothing but silence and shadow, a man on land, wounded soldier
bleeding in the battlefield, and a sky of deep blue, almost black, starry, which since its immeasurable
looked up with thousands of eyes, so indifferent to the pleasures
of some as to misery of others.

The precursors of the day light breezes began to frolic among the trees with leaves waving branches softly,
and a bird, revealed by the unusual noise, flapped its wings chirping happily, and confounding from
its hidden nest luminaries celebration with glow of dawn.

X.

Served dinner, which was wonderful, the guests began to leave happy and satisfied as people who
had accomplished his mission.

The noise caused those who were leaving, saying goodbye with joyous laughter, and wet with cold vapor
dew, did Lazarus back itself the length fainting while waiting for the last groups in the
spacious lobby and in the foreground of the garden, the arrival of their carriages.

The men, heavily clothed with Russian overcoats or between the fold
of the layers, smoked placed in rows, watching the ladies who came
down the marble stairs, whispering or covering the bare shoulders
or showy expensive shawls wraps.

Some have covered their cleavage cashmere sweat with a hundred colors, others are wrapped between
skunc skins, the blue fox and marten zibelina, this answer to a greeting, a look between those seeking
the crowded faces, all seemed at the time beautiful and happy, though many apparently without
be-all had something to say or had given something to envy.

Some men walking slowly, divided into groups or pairs, listening the distance for a long time the
sound of cars rolling in the deserted streets when was beginning to dawn on the day and ran sleepy calm,
bluff to bluff, off gas burners.

The priest, hidden in the shadows of the garden, watched them go, waiting to come out of hiding
that would have been all away when he noticed that not far from each other, between the branches
of a bush and near a fence, a man who undoubtedly purposely stayed
behind, and that suddenly moving carefully, cautiously crept along
the house, to penetrate there by a service door, that because the
ball was still open that night.

Lazarus then tried to scream, but the wonder voice drowned him in the throat, because to become
met to enter such a suspicious manner that entered the palace of the dukes and that man was Felix
Hamlet, the same few moments before had brought forth the Josefina lips a smile of happiness.

Quickly
climbed the ladder, and the priest was released on his watch, but
this one was far front.

On reaching the main floor, Hamlet, always spied Lazarus, crossed the aisle deserts, and through
the gallery that separated the rooms of the Duke of his wife and daughter, entered a room, which
flowed wing two corridors, one leading to quarter of the Duchess, and one that led to Josephine.
The door of that room was closed, but Hamlet just before it stopped, tapping with his knuckles, a
the leaves quietly opened out, showing a woman's arm wrapped around her a red silk sleeve. Village
came, and arm themselves attracted the door, which was once again instantly closed, while Lazarus,
pale and trembling, and fastened the feet on the ground, listening away, not knowing in what
sense the footsteps of two people, who walked on tiptoe produce no noise on the marble floor.

What
to do in such a horrible situation?

Who to call for help? Who to call? Discouragement I had a lot of helplessness and despair something
snatched away, and fearful of being seen, fled from the door, behind which was broken forever
the most beautiful of his illusions. In addition, together with the imperative mandate consciousness
imposed on it, felt his pulse in soul hesitation engendered by the surprise, suspicion treacherous,
but logically suggested by jealousy. Which meant an angel was female, and nothing else was not
worth the heart of a befit man, or that he loves her, but his indulgence of a priest trying
to redeem or apology. In the fall it got the blame for the way of premeditation; her lover
tried stepping back to the home of his parents, and trembling with love, agitated by desire, he should
expect to receive in his arms.

Wandering in this way, accepting as good despite the clumsy cravings,
piety was left in the soul of Lazarus fully erased by the irresistible
force of jealousy, to the extent that fear of making public the event,
fear of scandal and even the horrible idea of ​​seeing the daughter
disgraced in the eyes of his mother, became this man hindrances created
by malice to evade duty.

* * * * *

The day after the dance, and late in the morning, it was noted in the palace of the Dukes lack
of movement inherent in any house where the late hours of the masters long authorizes little
raised up early. Some of them, gathered at the gatehouse, were run still rubbing his eyes, making
comments of the party, talking and cursing. Other arrangements repairing the mess halls that
had produced the guests. The cook, followed by a tap on his shoulder a large basket, crossed
the garden take the path of the square.

The groom, shoes clogs and singing a song of their land, the harness rubbing on the door of
the garage, and a plant room floor next to a window, the Duchess's maid dresses carefully cleaned
that his wife had decorated the day before, while others admired the rich companions finest
fabrics and laces, disorderly placed on the back of a couch, could easily be seen from outside.

Lazarus,
as usual, was down to the garden, and his book in his hands, walk
up, ride down, walked slowly on the stove distance between crystals
and the gate input, repeatedly going to the bars of the ballroom.

      Faced with one of them matched pair casually, and through the thick
bars was forsaken and deserted the same place where a few hours before
it was all animation and bustle.

The gold chairs and silks were removed, and remembering that even the corridors were seat,
the crystals obscured by dust from a night of continuous movement; forgotten on a chair a fan;
the candles on the chandeliers, dripping hurry up on the velvet and marble covering consoles, had
blown up with any of the expiring flame glass washers. The doors to put in a classroom with
other communication were open, revealing, feigned by mirrors, the prospect of a deep gallery,
enclosed in gilt frames, images formed with fabrics or tapestries, multiplying, reproduced
to confuse view with his last term hesitant and confused. The sun's rays penetrated by between
seams of curtains, settling in slippery drops the mist fogged glass, and then settling traits
or shreds of light color on the ceilings. On the ground, confused with the carpet, had been trampled
upon the odd flower and withers.

- "So they," - thought to see Lazarus, and turning his eyes to the
book, he continued his walk up to the window where I was the maid,
who was humming to distract his work a low voice a polka style.

Oyola the priest, and looked at her, his eyes stopped on the garment that she was holding: a rich
satin gown in a bright red, the same red that Lazarus had seen in the arm last night slammed the
door where Hamlet was expected. His surprise was great. His thought refused to believe what
His eyes said. That girl was the maid of Margaret of civet, and as Joseph had their bondage aside,
it made sense that his clothes were also of the Duchess. Hesitated time, daring and finally
wanted to see resolved suspicion.

- Who are these costumes? - Asked the maid.

- Who should be, - said the girl, - but the Duchess? This, - he pointed a gorgeous dress and
a magnificent coat, - is the clothing that Ms. led yesterday to ride, and this red satin gown,
- he added - is what has been the early morning after the dance. Certainly who insisted on staying
reading, not wanting me to lie down or undress. Must have veiled until late in the day because
it is, of haggard and broken, giving disgust her.
 Embroidered garments of showy colors, enormous periwigs, gold-laced hats, and silver-hilted
swords glided past him and dazzled his optics. Travelled youths, imitators of the European
fine gentlemen of the period, trod jauntily along, half dancing to the fashionable tunes which
they hummed, and making poor Robin ashamed of his quiet and natural gait. At length, after
many pauses to examine the gorgeous display of goods in the shop-windows, and after suffering
some rebukes for the impertinence of his scrutiny into people's faces, the Major's kinsman
found himself near the steepled building, still unsuccessful in his search. As yet, however,
he had seen only one side of the thronged street; so Robin crossed, and continued the same
sort of inquisition down the opposite pavement, with stronger hopes than the philosopher seeking
an honest man, but with no better fortune. He had arrived about midway towards the lower end,
from which his course began, when he overheard the approach of some one who struck down a cane
on the flag-stones at every step, uttering at regular intervals, two sepulchral hems.

"Mercy on us!" quoth Robin, recognizing the sound.

Turning a corner, which chanced to be close at his right hand, he hastened to pursue his researches
in some other part of the town. His patience now was wearing low, and he seemed to feel more
fatigue from his rambles since he crossed the ferry, than from his journey of several days
on the other side. Hunger also pleaded loudly within him, and Robin began to balance the propriety
of demanding, violently, and with lifted cudgel, the necessary guidance from the first solitary
passenger whom he should meet. While a resolution to this effect was gaining strength, he entered
a street of mean appearance, on either side of which a row of ill-built houses was straggling
towards the harbor. The moonlight fell upon no passenger along the whole extent, but in the
third domicile which Robin passed there was a half-opened door, and his keen glance detected
a woman's garment within.

"My luck may be better here," said he to himself.

Accordingly, he approached the doors and beheld it shut closer as he did so; yet an open space
remained, sufficing for the fair occupant to observe the stranger, without a corresponding
display on her part. All that Robin could discern was a strip of scarlet petticoat, and the
occasional sparkle of an eye, as if the moonbeams were trembling on some bright thing.

"Pretty mistress," for I may call her so with a good conscience thought the shrewd youth, since
I know nothing to the contrary,--"my sweet pretty mistress, will you be kind enough to tell
me whereabouts I must seek the dwelling of my kinsman, Major Molineux?"

Robin's voice was plaintive and winning, and the female, seeing nothing to be shunned in the
handsome country youth, thrust open the door, and came forth into the moonlight. She was a
dainty little figure with a white neck, round arms, and a slender waist, at the extremity of
which her scarlet petticoat jutted out over a hoop, as if she were standing in a balloon. Moreover,
her face was oval and pretty, her hair dark beneath the little cap, and her bright eyes possessed
a sly freedom, which triumphed over those of Robin.

"Major Molineux dwells here," said this fair woman.

Now, her voice was the sweetest Robin had heard that night, yet he could not help doubting
whether that sweet voice spoke Gospel truth. He looked up and down the mean street, and then
surveyed the house before which they stood. It was a small, dark edifice of two stories, the
second of which projected over the lower floor, and the front apartment had the aspect of a
shop for petty commodities.

"Now, truly, I am in luck," replied Robin, cunningly, "and so indeed is my kinsman, the Major,
in having so pretty a housekeeper. But I prithee trouble him to step to the door; I will deliver
him a message from his friends in the country, and then go back to my lodgings at the inn."

"Nay, the Major has been abed this hour or more," said the lady of the scarlet petticoat; "and
it would be to little purpose to disturb him to-night, seeing his evening draught was of the
strongest. But he is a kind-hearted man, and it would be as much as my life's worth to let
a kinsman of his turn away from the door. You are the good old gentleman's very picture, and
I could swear that was his rainy-weather hat. Also he has garments very much resembling those
leather small-clothes. But come in, I pray, for I bid you hearty welcome in his name."

So saying, the fair and hospitable dame took our hero by the hand; and the touch was light,
and the force was gentleness, and though Robin read in her eyes what he did not hear in her
words, yet the slender-waisted woman in the scarlet petticoat proved stronger than the athletic
country youth. She had drawn his half-willing footsteps nearly to the threshold, when the opening
of a door in the neighborhood startled the Major's housekeeper, and, leaving the Major's kinsman,
she vanished speedily into her own domicile. A heavy yawn preceded the appearance of a man,
who, like the Moonshine of Pyramus and Thisbe, carried a lantern, needlessly aiding his sister
luminary in the heavens. As he walked sleepily up the street, he turned his broad, dull face
on Robin, and displayed a long staff, spiked at the end.

"Home, vagabond, home!" said the watchman, in accents that seemed to fall asleep as soon as
they were uttered. "Home, or we'll set you in the stocks by peep of day!"

"This is the second hint of the kind," thought Robin. "I wish they would end my difficulties,
by setting me there to-night."

Nevertheless, the youth felt an instinctive antipathy towards the guardian of midnight order,
which at first prevented him from asking his usual question. But just when the man was about
to vanish behind the corner, Robin resolved not to lose the opportunity, and shouted lustily
after him, "I say, friend! will you guide me to the house of my kinsman, Major Molineux?"

The watchman made no reply, but turned the corner and was gone; yet Robin seemed to hear the
sound of drowsy laughter stealing along the solitary street. At that moment, also, a pleasant
titter saluted him from the open window above his head; he looked up, and caught the sparkle
of a saucy eye; a round arm beckoned to him, and next he heard light footsteps descending the
staircase within. But Robin, being of the household of a New England clergyman, was a good
youth, as well as a shrewd one; so he resisted temptation, and fled away.

He now roamed desperately, and at random, through the town, almost ready to believe that a
spell was on him, like that by which a wizard of his country had once kept three pursuers wandering,
a whole winter night, within twenty paces of the cottage which they sought. The streets lay
before him, strange and desolate, and the lights were extinguished in almost every house. Twice,
however, little parties of men, among whom Robin distinguished individuals in outlandish attire,
came hurrying along; but, though on both occasions, they paused to address him such intercourse
did not at all enlighten his perplexity. They did but utter a few words in some language of
which Robin knew nothing, and perceiving his inability to answer, bestowed a curse upon him
in plain English and hastened away. Finally, the lad determined to knock at the door of every
mansion that might appear worthy to be occupied by his kinsman, trusting that perseverance
would overcome the fatality that had hitherto thwarted him. Firm in this resolve, he was passing
beneath the walls of a church, which formed the corner of two streets, when, as he turned into
the shade of its steeple, he encountered a bulky stranger muffled in a cloak. The man was proceeding
with the speed of earnest business, but Robin planted himself full before him, holding the
oak cudgel with both hands across his body as a bar to further passage.

"Halt, honest man, and answer me a question," said he, very resolutely. "Tell me, this instant,
whereabouts is the dwelling of my kinsman, Major Molineux!"

"Keep your tongue between your teeth, fool, and let me pass!" said a deep, gruff voice, which
Robin partly remembered. "Let me pass, or I'll strike you to the earth!"

"No, no, neighbor!" cried Robin, flourishing his cudgel, and then thrusting its larger end
close to the man's muffled face. "No, no, I'm not the fool you take me for, nor do you pass
till I have an answer to my question. Whereabouts is the dwelling of my kinsman, Major Molineux?"
The stranger, instead of attempting to force his passage, stepped back into the moonlight,
unmuffled his face, and stared full into that of Robin.

"Watch here an hour, and Major Molineux will pass by," said he.

Robin gazed with dismay and astonishment on the unprecedented physiognomy of the speaker. The
forehead with its double prominence the broad hooked nose, the shaggy eyebrows, and fiery eyes
were those which he had noticed at the inn, but the man's complexion had undergone a singular,
or, more properly, a twofold change. One side of the face blazed an intense red, while the
other was black as midnight, the division line being in the broad bridge of the nose; and a
mouth which seemed to extend from ear to ear was black or red, in contrast to the color of
the cheek. The effect was as if two individual devils, a fiend of fire and a fiend of darkness,
had united themselves to form this infernal visage. The stranger grinned in Robin's face, muffled
his party-colored features, and was out of sight in a moment.

"Strange things we travellers see!" ejaculated Robin.

He seated himself, however, upon the steps of the church-door, resolving to wait the appointed
time for his kinsman. A few moments were consumed in philosophical speculations upon the species
of man who had just left him; but having settled this point shrewdly, rationally, and satisfactorily,
he was compelled to look elsewhere for his amusement. And first he threw his eyes along the
street. It was of more respectable appearance than most of those into which he had wandered,
and the moon, creating, like the imaginative power, a beautiful strangeness in familiar objects,
gave something of romance to a scene that might not have possessed it in the light of day. Finally, none should be having earned the Ghost, did
not receive the effect of his request "(p. 31).

The Holy Child of Cebu, an image that left in that city co-Magallanes, resorted the Cebuanos, before
converting to Catholicism, to ask for rain, "leading him in procession to the beach and by putting
in the water, so getting the rain that had need "(Ninth the Most Holy Name of Jesus, Malabon,
1895, pg. 11). However, the immersion in water the sea, was a resource that could be called
extreme cases, it reads a line from this novena:

"If anything failed
to water because you prayed, the sea, O Child, you bore, and the waters
I got: and water and asked, gave your love.

                "(p. 29.)
                
                The best known miracles made by
                the Santo Niño took place
                from 1618 to 1675, from then
                it is logged in the Ninth none memorable.

However, the Ninth affirms that miracles the "continuously make Santo Niño" (p. 15) and "turn
it all the Visayas Bohol, Cebu, Leyte, Samar, Mindanao and many Tagalog to kiss his sacred feet, and
venerate and entrust their needs and misfortunes requesting relief in sickness, help in navigation
and protection in all the events of life "(pp. 15-16).

Safety in the ninth desired effect is complete in regard to San Roque
"The exercise of this Novena, says (p. 3, Ninth, Manila, 1910), gives
the average force to achieve this glorious saint of God that we ."--"

To get rid of fever * * * which has its origin in the corruption of the air * * * San Roque
to have to go with fervent prayers * * * "(p. 3). Next to the corpse of the Saint was found
a letter that it is written by God, saying: "Those who hurt fever, implore the favor of Roque
achieve health "(p. 5). The intervention of San Roque is only for Catholics; who makes his ninth
says the following: "I beseech you that by the merits of this glorious Holy libréis us, to all
who attended this cult and to all Catholics in your Kingdom of Spain and the Islands, all pestilent
disease that can take our lives " (P. 13). As there are here including the U.S. Catholic, the Bureau
of Health must remember that such citizens with non-Catholics who live the Philippines do not
enjoy antipestífera protection of San Roque.

Superstition and crime

In his remarkable study of criminal anthropology in the Philippines,
says Dr. Sixto de Los Angeles (p. 119): "The easy credulity fostered
by the overcultivation of religious fanaticism, has constituted from
the beginning until the present one of the flaws, unfortunately quite
still widespread among the natives of the country * * *.

Lover of their traditions and habits inherited and lack of sufficient
opportunities to acquire knowledge, the Filipino populace must hold,
as is logical and natural, their beliefs, which, not requiring any
effort for comprehension, are worsening and are rooted in a spontaneous
way in his mind.

As evidenced by our judicial annals, superstition holds a significant category between the
factors of crime in the country. "Superstitions referred to by Dr. LA not just those of the old paganism
of Filipino missionaries after more than three centuries, have failed to completely destroy. Superstitions
referred in this conference are those brought by those missionaries who have been easily to intrude
on the Philippines, naturally willing credulity, by effective propaganda and generously spread
on the ninth and other booklets called of devotion.

As to the arrival of American education in the Philippines was always and exclusively religious,
and directed by Roman priests, the persistence of ancient superstitions are a demonstration of the
failure of religious education. Missionaries would have an excuse blame the rude filipino invincible,
we could admit courtesy and to avoid discussions. But the trouble is not that they could not remove
some of the supposed hard head Indian, but the tremendous wealth of superstitions that for
more than three centuries, these missionaries have the same penetrating head injury so severe
in their minds and morals.
 But still his mind kept vibrating between fancy and reality; by turns,
the pillars of the balcony lengthened into the tall, bare stems of pines, dwindled down to
human figures, settled again into their true shape and size, and then commenced a new succession
of changes. Gonzalo did not leave the house of his father, who after five or six days of the challenge,
took Ventura carrying the convent of Ocaña. But his life was sad, grim for others. Denied it, despite
the request of Paul, to go hunting or ride. A deeper sleep wrestled with and nearly overcame him, but fled
at the sound of footsteps along the opposite pavement. Robin rubbed his eyes, discerned a man
passing at the foot of the balcony, and addressed him in a loud, peevish, and lamentable cry.

"Hallo, friend! must I wait here all night for my kinsman, Major Molineux?"

The sleeping echoes awoke, and answered the voice; and the passenger, barely able to discern
a figure sitting in the oblique shade of the steeple, traversed the street to obtain a nearer
view. He was himself a gentleman in his prime, of open, intelligent, cheerful, and altogether
prepossessing countenance. Perceiving a country youth, apparently homeless and without friends,
he accosted him in a tone of real kindness, which had become strange to Robin's ears.

"Well, my good lad, why are you sitting here?" inquired he. "Can I be of service to you in
any way?"

"I am afraid not, sir," replied Robin, despondingly; "yet I shall take it kindly, if you'll
answer me a single question. I've been searching, half the night, for one Major Molineux, now,
sir, is there really such a person in these parts, or am I dreaming?"

"Major Molineux! The name is not altogether strange to me," said the gentleman, smiling. "Have
you any objection to telling me the nature of your business with him?"

Then Robin briefly related that his father was a clergyman, settled on a small salary, at a
long distance back in the country, and that he and Major Molineux were brothers' children.
The Major, having inherited riches, and acquired civil and military rank, had visited his cousin,
in great pomp, a year or two before; had manifested much interest in Robin and an elder brother,
and, being childless himself, had thrown out hints respecting the future establishment of one
of them in life. The elder brother was destined to succeed to the farm which his father cultivated
in the interval of sacred duties; it was therefore determined that Robin should profit by his
kinsman's generous intentions, especially as he seemed to be rather the favorite, and was thought
to possess other necessary endowments.

"For I have the name of being a shrewd youth," observed Robin, in this part of his story.

"I doubt not you deserve it," replied his new friend, good-naturedly; "but pray proceed." In the immediate corner shops students expected
dressmakers and old green, caressing the notes in your pocket for a piece Eslava, or tickets to
dance in favor Sutil. Before the churches, whose bells rang without being able to quell the noise
of the streets, waiting for the end of the ninth saloons of the great ladies with horses drawing
himself up proudly and long garages waterproof. Everywhere confusion reigned stirring, lively, almost
feverish, which form the continued sway of those returning from a walk or leave the work to which
they do nothing, going from one place to another, as ever trip insurance with fortune without
worrying to search.

Lazarus, leaning his elbows on the sill of a window of his room, and sunk his face between the
palms of the hands, was heard to reach its peak of garden arbors the constant dull roar that rises
from the village and cut into the early hours of the night; sound like the hoarse and prolonged
roar of a beast that is stretched and espereza before to lie down to sleep.

Listening to those voices generated by the movement and activity of modern life thought within
the width of the villa, after every balcony, every house, the glow of every light, every corner
back, who would suffer torture by its own and sharp penalties, but that nobody would suffer pain
so deep and bitter as his.

It was time to put into effect his firm and resolute purpose. Sounded when to leave the house
forever, and before leaving he wanted to cover it, condense it all last time in a farewell in
his memory as indelible traits there surrounded him while he lived
nearby.

He looked at the garden. Among the branches of the linden was shining, washed by rain, crystals
the stove, where so often talked of indifferent things which now seemed worthy of eternal
remembrance. To the left of the huge oleander and multiple arms extending its branches laden with
flowers, were the chairs and table iron, together with the spied many times, embroidering it,
devouring him with dilated pupils, while the breeze playfully lifted the girl's gown floating to discover
its exquisite foot, and gave off size of the tissue of fine yarn. Further afield were gathered
in a single plantation, upright on their slender stems, roses of Malmaison and Alexandria,
Josefina took care to dress with roses after she had showered.

All spoke your name, and, by some strange coincidence, the only balcony in which there was his
light.

An imprudent idea, fueled by a desire irresistible, then took Lazarus. Wanted, before you leave, see
Josephine's room, hang on as the eyes belonged touch As she played, live a moment in the sacred
enclosure that housed his dream, and collect perhaps lost in imagination,
the echo of some word of love lost between the curtains virginal bed.

He wanted to reach the sanctuary of the only idol who always had to believe, because it was the
only who could not touch.

It was after ten o'clock at night, and dukes, who had left her daughter
to the opera, probably not return until late.

The garden was dark, desert, not perceived more noise than the continuous fall of rain on the
gravelled walks and the merry laughter gossip of the servants who ate gathered in a downstairs kitchen.

Lazarus,
knowing that the field was free and safe, he ventured to suit your whim. Fell into the garden,
walk through him almost on tiptoe, and went from the lobby to the rooms of the Dukes, bringing
the hands forward, as he risked in the dark and without a guide unfamiliar terrain. The sound of
his footsteps was pulled off by the thick carpet extended along the corridors. At the end of
one of them, the bright spot shining in a keyhole told Josephine's room. Then advancing confidently
placed his trembling hand on the door latch, and secure impunity
for their boldness, suddenly opened.

A lamp forgotten about the white marble fireplace scattered faint glow, filtered through a frosted
glass pump, which, playing on the moon of a large mirror, duplicated the image of light without
increasing clarity. In the center of a veladorcito ebony covered by a carpet of silk fringed vivid
colors, had a green porcelain old Sevres, and the hollow of his glass
several pins, a ring and a narrow strip Satin woven two-tone pink
and white.
The single horseman, clad in a military dress, and bearing a drawn sword, rode onward as the
leader, and, by his fierce and variegated countenance, appeared like war personified; the red
of one cheek was an emblem of fire and sword; the blackness of the other betokened the mourning
that attends them. In his train were wild figures in the Indian dress, and many fantastic shapes
without a model, giving the whole march a visionary air, as if a dream had broken forth from
some feverish brain, and were sweeping visibly through the midnight streets. And in the shadow of our sleeves, trusting
in San Isidro, rural people sleep waiting for the angels to do their job! How to preach it to
"eat their bread by the sweat of your face," when the work that sweat means you do not need?

Unconnected
to the Bureau of Education of the Philippine government have proceeded
in the how I have done, not to defend the secular schools of an unjust
accusation and unjustifiable, not to attack people or religious or
political ideals, but to help remove one of the bases, one of the
strongest causes of criminality, corruption, training of individuals
useless and harmful to society: superstition!

And, gentlemen, is not only a superstition worthy of laughter, in any way. It is a superstition
ridiculous, yes, absurd, but tragic, dangerous, because it offers the wicked, the criminal the
ignorant, the means to succeed in life, get away, to get what they want giving them the means
to avoid punishment, on the ground circumventing justice men, and getting God's forgiveness
of eternal damnation, by the simple means of invoking the name of a saint, or a Latin word, like
a sesame, devotee crosses the gates of heaven.

Lamentable failure of the Bishop of Cebu

The prelate accused in the aforementioned manner to public schools, has made a mistake regrettable.
For my part I can assure you that his accusations aroused my curiosity investigate the causes
of immorality and perversion of morals that the prelate, and we with
it, we all regret.

According to those who have studied the mentality of most of our
people, it is evident that superstition is the enemy we to fight,
she is the moral cause of the errors we observe.

Both priests regular and the secular clergy confess that the mass of people is still in bondage
superstition inherited from the ancestors, superstition could be called genuinely Filipino,
which comes from the ancient beliefs in nunu, the asuang and anito and all the spirits of ancient
idolatry, before the introduction of Catholicism by missionaries Spanish.

The failure of the missionaries

According to own admission, these missionaries, after three centuries of preaching, have failed
remove these superstitions embedded in the consciousness of people.
 At that moment a voice of sluggish merriment
saluted Robin's ears; he turned instinctively, and just behind the corner of the church stood
the lantern-bearer, rubbing his eyes, and drowsily enjoying the lad's amazement. Then he heard
a peal of laughter like the ringing of silvery bells; a woman twitched his arm, a saucy eye
met his, and he saw the lady of the scarlet petticoat. A sharp, dry cachinnation appealed to
his memory, and, standing on tiptoe in the crowd, with his white apron over his head, he beheld
the courteous little innkeeper. And lastly, there sailed over the heads of the multitude a
great, broad laugh, broken in the midst by two sepulchral hems; thus, "Haw, haw, haw,--hem,
hem,--haw, haw, haw, haw!"

The sound proceeded from the balcony of the opposite edifice, and thither Robin turned his
eyes. In front of the Gothic window stood the old citizen, wrapped in a wide gown, his gray
periwig exchanged for a nightcap, which was thrust back from his forehead, and his silk stockings
hanging about his legs. He supported himself on his polished cane in a fit of convulsive merriment,
which manifested itself on his solemn old features like a funny inscription on a tombstone.
Then Robin seemed to hear the voices of the barbers, of the guests of the inn, and of all who
had made sport of him that night. Had turned their backs on God and given back to the devil. Was scented
their stay, and looked gorgeous in her mind of her former lovers and the luxury of silverware.

Don
Jacinto did not fail to attend the event.

It was already another man. Had discarded the mask mysticism. To the memory of the ugliness
and stupidity of his consort stimulated a lightweight desire. To excuse their ingratitude, fell from
his lips choppy sentences. Delivered after burning words of love, and broken and the brake of hypocrisy
used well, rushed Maria Antonia, who was attracted to the eye and soft enthralled with laughter,
partly open the moist mouth and showing the same and clenched teeth, like two strings of pearls.
 On they went, in counterfeited
pomp, in senseless uproar, in frenzied merriment, trampling all on an old man's heart. On swept
the tumult, and left a silent street behind. 20).

Unnecessarily prolong this conference if I mentioned all the absurdities entered Novenas in which
I have a large body which is a positive documentation very useful
for the history of the superstition that only deflowering here. His cheek was somewhat pale, and his eye not quite as lively
as in the earlier part of the evening.

"Will you be kind enough to show me the way to the ferry?" said he, after a moment's pause.

"You have, then, adopted a new subject of inquiry?" observed his companion, with a smile. 

I was so distracted by the flamboyant Marquis that she did not notice until going to happen touched
the shoulder. Viola and stood as scarlet red.

- Ungrateful - said it - I waited here to make sure that I have forgotten
all and to ask alms of a look and please and honor that you may please
tell me yet.

- I'm married - he said, and the tone in which he uttered
those words, he showed fear that someone saw her.



