The tricuspid valves and the semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery had lost their healthy
transparency, but were not otherwise diseased. In all the above cases these valves had been
found without important derangement of their structure; a circumstance not less remarkable,
than difficult to be satisfactorily explained. The basis of the mitral valves was marked by
a bony projection, which nearly surrounded the orifice of the ventricle; the valves themselves
were thickened, and one of them was smaller than the other. The semilunar valves of the aorta
were lessened in size, and somewhat thickened. One of them was ossified sufficiently to annihilate
its valvular function; the others were slightly. The aorta under the valves was semicartilaginous,
ossified in one small spot, roughened by fleshlike prominences in others, entirely deprived
of the smoothness of its internal coat, and in size proportioned to the heart.

The parietes of the heart were thicker than those of a healthy heart, but thin when compared
with its whole volume; whence it follows, that the cavities were enlarged. That of the left
ventricle was disproportionately larger than the others, but no difference of size could be
ascertained between the auricles. When a cavity of the heart is situated in the course of the
circulation immediately behind a contracted orifice, it seems probable that the contraction
may have an important influence in originating the enlargement or aneurism of that cavity;
but, where there is no contraction of an orifice, what is the obstruction which impedes the
free discharge of blood from the heart, and causes the first yielding of its parietes? Perhaps
a violent simultaneous action of many muscles, from great exertion, may, during the systole
of the heart, impede the passage of the blood through the arteries, drive it back upon the
valves of the aorta, and resist the heart at the moment of its contraction. If the parietes
of the heart yield, in one part, it is easy to conceive a consequent distension of the remainder
to any degree; for, during the systole of the heart, the columnæ approximate, till their sides
are in contact, to protect the parietes of the heart; but, if these be distended, the columnæ
can no longer come in contact with each other, and the blood passing between them will be propelled
against the parieties, and increase their distention. The left ventricle being thus dilated,
the mitral valves will not be able to completely cover its orifice, and part of the blood will
escape from the ventricle, when it contracts, into the auricle when dilated with the blood
from the lungs; and this undue quantity of blood will gradually enlarge the auricle. A resistance
will arise, from the same cause, to the passage of the blood from the lungs, thence to that
from the right ventricle and auricle, and thus these cavities may become enlarged in their
turns. When an ossification of the aorta, or of its valves, exists, there will be a resistance
to the passage of the blood from the left ventricle, either by a loss of dilatability in the
artery, or a contraction of the orifice by the ossified parts. In either case, the blood will
reflow upon the heart, and dilate the left ventricle, as in case the first, and others; and,
if the mitral valves be thickened and rigid, the left auricle will be more dilated than in
a case of simple aneurism of the left ventricle, as appeared also in the first case.

The coronary arteries, at their origin from the aorta, and a considerable distance beyond,
were ossified. How far does the existence of this ossification in this and other cases related
by different authors, without symptoms of angina pectoris, disprove the opinion that it is
the cause of that disease?

