Then the old colour came back upon her face, and something of the old look, and the tenderness
was quenched in her eyes, and the softness of her voice was gone. 'I do not know,' she said.

'Mamma, you must know. Get up and sit by me till I tell you. You must teach yourself to know
this,--to be quite sure of it. You must not think that your daughter is,--is living in adultery
with the husband of another woman. To me who knew him there has never been a shadow of a doubt,
not a taint of fear to darken the certainty of my faith. It could not have been so, perhaps,
with you who have not known his nature. But now, now, when all of them, from the Queen downwards,
have declared that this charge has been a libel, when even the miscreants themselves have told
against themselves, when the very judge has gone back from the word in which he was so confident,
shall my mother,--and my mother only,--think that I am a wretched, miserable, nameless outcast,
with a poor nameless, fatherless baby? I am John Caldigate's wife before God's throne, and
my child is his child, and his lawful heir, and owns his father's name. It is our intention to
show a small sketch in the progress made in offensive weapon inventions, and specifically guns
used in war or hunting, used by a single person, and commonly smaller sized arms, in contrast
to artillery. 'But, mamma,
because I love him more, I do not love you less.'

'Oh yes, oh yes; so much less.'

'No, mamma. It is given to us, of God, so to love our husband; "For the husband is head of
the wife, even as Christ is head of the Church."  You would not have me forget such teaching
as that?'

'No,--my child; no.'

'When I went out and had him given to me for my husband, of course I loved him best. The Lord
do so to me and more also if aught but death part him and me! But shall that make my mother
think that her girl's heart is turned away from her? Mamma, say that he is my husband.' The
frown came back, and the woman sat silent and sullen, but there was something of vacillating
indecision in her face. 'Mamma,' repeated Hester, 'say that he is my husband.'

'I suppose so,' said the woman, very slowly.

'Mamma, say that it is so, and bless your child.'

'God bless you, my child.'

'And you know that it is so?'

'Yes.' The word was hardly spoken, but the lips of the one were close to the ear of the other,
and the sound was heard, and the assent was acknowledged.

Chapter LXIV

Conclusion

The web of our story has now been woven, the piece is finished, and it is only necessary that
the loose threads should be collected, so that there may be no unravelling. In such chronicles
as this, something no doubt might be left to the imagination without serious injury to the
story; but the reader, I think, feels a deficiency when, through tedium or coldness, the writer
omits to give all the information which he possesses.

Among the male personages of my story, Bagwax should perhaps be allowed to stand first. It
was his energy and devotion to his peculiar duties which, after the verdict, served to keep
alive the idea that that verdict had been unjust. It was through his ingenuity that Judge Bramber
was induced to refer the inquiry back to Scotland Yard, and in this way to prevent the escape
of Crinkett and Euphemia Smith. Therefore we will first say a word as to Bagwax and his history.

