"Mrs. Williams, you can at least say the same as the man in the Bible said when Jesus asked
him if he believed He could heal him; he said: 'Oh, God, I believe, help thou mine unbelief.'
And this is what I am going to do, I am going to help thine unbelief, that is, cast it out,
and let Truth reign in your consciousness. To accomplish this you must be obedient; if you
have any prejudice, cast it aside. The word prejudice means to prejudge, and very few people
are wise enough to prejudge even the most simple things of life, and those who do, are wrong
more times than they are right."

"What you say is true, and I don't want to be prejudiced about anything, but there has been
so much said against Christian Science and it has been ridiculed so severely that I find it
hard to have any faith in it, yet I am very willing to give it a trial."

"Mrs. Williams, what would you think of a judge or a jury that would convict a person solely
on the evidence of witnesses who were opposed to the person on trial, and probably all of the
testimony was of this type: ('I heard Mr. Smith say he heard the prisoner had done it')? in
other words mere gossip; would you consider this justice? Yet that is just the kind of trial
that all prejudiced people give Christian Science. If Christian Scientists point to the great
mass of evidence in favor of this science, this evidence is ridiculed and denied, no matter
how honest the person may be who gave the testimony."

"Your contention is true, Mrs. White, I did prejudge or sentence Christian Science on the testimony
of its enemies."

"I am glad to hear you admit this, as it shows me that one obstacle to your recovery has been
removed, and you will now give Christian Science an impartial hearing and a fair trial. And
now before I give you a silent treatment, I wish to set your thoughts aright about God. You
may have said that it is God's will that you are suffering, or that He had put this thing upon
you as a punishment, either for something you, or some one else, had done. This is a terrible
thing to do, to accuse your Maker, a God who is all good, all love, of such a contemptible
act as this. No, Mrs. Williams, rest assured God never did such a thing. Let us see what the
Bible says on this question. In the first place, it says God made everything good; do you believe
that?"

The sick woman nodded her head.

"Next, it says, 'And God saw everything He had made and pronounced it very good'; it further
states that God made everything that was made; do you believe this also?"

"Yes."

"You have heard it said that Christian Science claims that sin, disease, and death are not
real, haven't you?" asked the practitioner.

"Yes."

"Now let us see if their claims are true. You agreed that God made everything that was made
and that it was good. Now then, can you in any possible way show me wherein this claim of sickness
of yours is good? if not, then God did not make it, it cannot be real, and it does not exist."

"But, Mrs. White, I have suffered with it for years, and it certainly is real to me," said
Mrs. Williams.

"Let me show you how real it is, and what is necessary to make it unreal to you. Suppose I
lie down on that couch over there," she said, pointing to a couch at the further side of the
room. "As I fall asleep, the things in the room gradually fade from my sight and consciousness,
that is, they become unreal to me, in fact they have no existence for me for the time being,
yet they are all there. After a little I begin to dream that I am getting ready to take a trip
to Europe. I pack my trunk, telephone for the expressman to take it to the depot, I dress myself
in my traveling suit, get into my carriage, and am driven to the depot. On the way down I see
some of my friends. I bow to them, and as I get out of the carriage at the depot I find my
husband and sister there, to bid me God speed on my journey. I realize that my husband came
from his place of business, and my sister from a distant part of the city. We enter the depot
chatting gaily. My husband goes to inquire about the train. He comes back and tells us it is
ready, and we walk down a pair of stairs and out into the train shed. As we approach the train,
my husband gets out my ticket, shows it to the porter, and he says, 'Second car to the rear.'
As we reach the place indicated, my husband shows the ticket to another porter who is standing
there. He examines it and says with a wave of his hand, 'Right in this car.' We enter, and
find the number of my berth. My husband puts my traveling bag under the seat, and we all sit
there talking for some time. We then hear the conductor's warning, 'All aboard.' My husband
and sister both kiss me and hurriedly leave the car. A moment later I see them on the platform.
I hear the bell on the engine ring, I feel the car move, and wave a last farewell to those
on the platform as they pass from my sight. A little later I am out in the country. Then we
dash through a village without stopping, and at length we arrive at New York. I take a carriage
to be driven to the dock. On the way there the horse becomes frightened, runs away, tips the
carriage over, throws me under a rapidly moving street car, which runs over both my feet. The
ambulance is called. I am taken to the hospital. The pain is almost unbearable. The physician
examines my injuries and says he will be compelled to amputate both my feet. This seems so
terrible to me that the shock wakes me up. For a few moments after I awake, I still feel the
pain and lie there trembling with fright, for the dream has been so real. Yet in reality I
never left the couch, and everything in the room is there just as I left it when I went to
sleep. It was all an illusion, and the only thing necessary to prove it to me was something
or somebody to awaken me. So it is with man. God made him perfect and everything good, and
all man needs to prove it to himself is to be awakened, that is, made acquainted with the true
facts pertaining to life. This means man must understand the science of being; then his delusion
regarding sin, disease, and death will be no more real than my trip to Europe with its accompanying
pain and disasters."

"I see the force of your illustration, Mrs. White, but I am sure I am not dreaming." "But you
are suffering from a delusion, and a delusion is a dream, and is no more real. If it had been
possible for some one to tell me while I was on my dream trip, that it was a dream, I would
have denied it, because it seemed real to me. So with you, this delusion seems so real you
believe it to be a reality. Nevertheless the facts were that I was suffering from a delusion,
and so are you. So let us deny that evil is real, and we will wake up to the truth, or understanding,
that it is not real. Now I will give you your treatment." 

In Rossia, do they are not published, because the administration of lash,
flog, and scourge is left to the discretion of every sergeant, defender,
police white, and district constable, and is enjoyed by them to their
hearts'content.

A few minutes later, Mrs. White was on her way home, and the pastor and his family were more
hopeful than they had been for some time. Walter and his father discussed with Mrs. Williams
the happenings of the evening, and it was quite late before they all retired for the night.

