LEGAL STATUS

OF

WOMEN IN IOWA.

COMPILED BY

JENNIE L. WILSON, LL. B.

Member of the Polk County Bar.

DES MOINES: IOWA PRINTING COMPANY. 1894.

Preface. 

Scheible, of Stuttgart, who is doubtless known to our readers as the publisher of some very
curious works illustrative of the popular literature of Germany of the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries, has just commenced a new Library of Magic,& c., or Bibliothek
der Zanber-Geheimnisse-und Offenbarungs-Bucher.

The first volume of it is devoted to a work ascribed to that prince of magicians, our old familiar,
Dr. Faustus, and bears the imposing title Doktor Johannes Faust's Magia Naturalis et Innaturalis,
oder Dreifacher Höllenzwang, leiztes Testament und Siegelkunst. It is taken from a MS. of the last
century, filled with magical drawings and devices enough to summon back again from the Red
Sea all the spirits that ever were laid in it.

Every woman should understand the law of her own state concerning marriage, divorce, the care
and custody of children, and the mutual rights and duties of husband and wife incident to the
marriage relation. She should know something of the law of minors and guardianship, of administration,
and descent of property, and her knowledge should certainly embrace that class of crimes which
necessarily includes her own sex, either as the injured party, or as particeps criminis. 

The noble privilege and opportunity secured in the latter condition are the only adequate reward
for the drudgery of the labor required in the former. It would be foolish to raise a question
whether it be more essential for an historian to be faithful in his narration or to be wise
in his comments. Only the statement we have made will serve to remind us how essential the philosophy
of human nature is to throw life into a record of old annals.

The two books in our hands, where their specific themes are identical, substantially accord in
their relation of facts,-- allowing for a few exceptional cases,-- but they differ widely in their
philosophy. Very much of the fresh interest which both of them will create in their respective
subjects will be found in the collisions of their philosophy.

Dr. Palfrey had a favorable opportunity for undertaking to write anew the history of New England.
Those who have yet to acquaint themselves with that history say there
was no occasion for this reiterated labor.

If such persons will merely read over his notes, without wasting
any of their precious time upon his text, they will discover their
mistake.

There are in those notes matters new even to adepts.

All the recent materials which have been lavishly contributed from
public and private stores by public and private researches amount
in sum and in importance to an actual necessity for their digest and
incorporation into a new history.

MARRIAGE. Contract of marriage--Legal age--No express form necessary--Who may solemnize--When void

CHAPTER III.

HUSBAND AND WIFE. Price threepence.

The gentleman who was the hero of this scandalous affair was Mr. Thomas Estcourt Cresswell,
of Pinkney Park, Wilts, M. P. for Wootton Bassett.

He married Anne, the sole and very wealthy heiress of Edward Warneford,
Esq.

DIVORCE, ANNULLING MARRIAGES AND ALIMONY. The more you know, under these circumstances, the worse it will
be for you. You will become like Boerhaave's hypochondriacal student, who, after every lecture, believed himself to be
the victim of the particular disease just expounded. Majority--Contracts of minors--Natural guardians--Guardians of property--Powers
and duties of guardian--Guardians of drunkards, spendthrifts and lunatics

CHAPTER VI.

