January 25, 1850.--Halted at Sandee. The lake on the south side, mentioned yesterday, abounds
in fish, and is covered with wild fowl; but the fish we got from it yesterday was not good
of its kind. I observed very fine groves of mango-trees close to Sandee, planted by merchants
and shopkeepers of the place. The oldest are still held by the descendants of those by whom
they were first planted, more than a century ago; and no tax whatever is imposed upon the trees
of any kind, or upon the lands on which they stand. Many young groves are growing up around,
to replace the old ones as they decay; and the greatest possible security is felt in the tenure
by which they are held by the planter, or his descendants, though they hold no written lease,
or deed of gift; and have neither written law nor court of justice to secure it to them. Groves
and solitary mango, semul, tamarind, mhowa and other trees, whose leaves and branches are not
required for the food of elephants and camels, are more secure in Oude than in our own territories;
and the country is, in consequence, much better provided with them. While they give beauty
to the landscape, they alleviate the effects of droughts to the poorer classes from the fruit
they supply; and droughts are less frequently and less severely felt in a country so intersected
by fine streams, flowing from the Tarae forest, or down from the perpetual snows of neighbouring
hills, and keeping the water always near the surface. These trees tend also to render the air
healthy, by giving out oxygen in large quantities during the day, and absorbing carbonic acid
gas. The river Gurra enters the Ganges about twelve miles below Sandee. Boats take timber on
this stream from the Phillibeet district to Cawnpoor. It passes near the town of Shajehanpoor;
and the village of Palee, twenty miles north-west from Sandee, where we shall have to recross it.

January 26, 1850.--Busora, twelve miles north-west from Sandee, over a plain of light sandy
soil, or bhoor, with some intervals of oosur. The tillage extends over as much of the surface
as it ought in so light a soil; and the district of Sandee Palee generally is said to be well
cultivated. It has been under the charge of Hafiz Abdoollah, a very honest and worthy man,
for seven years up to his death, which took place in November last. He is said never to have
broken faith with a landholder; but he was too weak in means to keep the bad portion under
control; and too much occupied in reading or repeating the Koran, which he knew all by heart,
as his name imports. His son Ameer Gholam Allee, a lad of only thirteen years of age, has been
appointed his successor. He promises to be like his father in honesty and love of the holy book.*

[* He has been since removed, and was in prison as a defaulter, July 1851.]

About half way we passed the village of Bhanapoor, held by zumeendars of the Dhaukurree Rajpoot
clan, who told me, that they gave their daughters in marriage to the Rykwars, but more to the
Sombunsie Rajpoots, who abound in the district, and hold the greater part of the lands; that
these Sombunsies have absorbed almost all the lands of the other classes by degrees, and are
now seizing upon theirs; that the Sombunsies give their daughters in marriage only to the Rathore
and Chouhan Rajpoots, few of whom are to be found on the Oude side of the Ganges; and, in consequence,
that they take such as they preserve to our districts on the other side of that river, but
murder the greater part rather than condescend to marry them to men of the other Rajpoot clans
whom they deem to be of inferior grade, or go to the expense of uniting them in marriage to
clans of higher or equal grade in Oude. Some Sombunsies, who came out to pay their respects
from the next village we passed, told us, that they did not give their daughters even to the
Tilokchundee Bys Rajpoots; but in this they did not tell the truth.

At the next village, the largest in the parish, Barone, the chief landholder, Kewul Sing, came
out and presented his offering of a fine fighting-ram. He was armed with his bow, and "quiver
full of arrows," but told me, that he thought a good gun, with pouch and flask, much better,
and he carried the bow and quiver merely because they were lighter. He was surrounded by almost
all the people of the town, and told me, that the family held in copartnership fifty-two small
villages, immediately around Barone--that this village had been attacked and burnt down by
Captain Bunbury and his regiment the year before last, without any other cause that they could
understand save that he had recommended him not to encamp in the grove close by. The fact was,
that none of the family would pay the Government demand, or obey the old Amil, Hafiz Abdoollah;
and it was necessary to make an example. On being asked whether his family and clan, the Sombunsies,
preserved or destroyed their daughters, he told me, in the midst of his village community,
that he would not deceive me; that they, one and all, destroyed their infant daughters; but
that one was, occasionally, allowed to live (ek-adh); that the family was under a taint for
twelve days after the murder of an infant, when the family priest (Prohut) was invited and
fed in due form; that he then declared the absolution complete, and the taint removed.

The family priest was present, and I asked him what he got on such occasions? He said, that
to remove the taint, or grant absolution after the murder of a daughter, he got little or no
money; he merely partook of the food prepared for him in due form; but that, on the birth of
a son, he got ten rupees from the parents. All the assembled villagers bore testimony to the
truth of what the patriarch and the priest told me. They said, that no one would enter a house
in which an infant daughter had been destroyed, or eat or drink with any member of the family
till the Prohut had granted the absolution, which he did after the expiration of twelve days,
as a matter of course, depending as he did upon the good-will of the landholders, who were
all of the same clan, Sombunsies. Few other Brahmins will condescend to eat, drink, or associate
with these family and village priests, who take the sins of such murderers upon their own heads.

The old patriarch rode on with me upon his pony, five miles to my tents, as if I should not
think the worse of him for having murdered his own daughters, and permitted others to murder
theirs. I told him, that I could hold no converse with men who were guilty of such crimes;
and that the vengeance of God would crush them all, sooner or latter. For his only excuse he
told me, that it was a practice, derived from a long line of ancestors, wiser and better than
they were; and that it prevailed in almost every Rajpoot family in the country; that they had,
in consequence, become reconciled to it, and knew not how to do without it. Family pride is
the cause of this terrible evil!

