"And whether it be wise or foolish, I have sanctioned it.  I cannot now go back with honour,
even if my own heart would let me. I said, "My love is sacred or I do not believe in
anything sacred. With me, the issue is pranks. Don't admonish me but hear this: "Man, man, what
is that?". At other times it shows up and says "Philip, formality."
And, at that point...I behave well but what I say is that it is not
right.

"Most certainly not.  He knows no more than that he has seen me enter this room."

"I am glad of that, because I would not wish that he should be disappointed.  In this matter,
my dear, I cannot do anything for you."

"And that is your last answer, uncle?"

"Yes, indeed.  When you come to think over this some twenty years hence, you will know then
that I am right, and that your request was unreasonable. Shelter also entered the kitchen and after exchaning some
small talk he stepped into his dressing room and took a while. Amparo wanted to leave soon so he would
not be there when the other arrived. Refugio was irritated but lightened up with the help of a tricky,
envious and gossipy woman. Amparo feard indisgretions in it and always scolded about his leaving
and indifference to work.
  "Ah," he said to himself; when he was alone, "the young people have the best
of it.  The sun shines for them; but why should they have all?  Poor as he is, he is a happy
dog,--a happy dog.  But she is twice too good for him.  Why did she not take to one of her
own country?"

Isa, as she passed through the bank, smiled sweetly on her father, and then smiled sweetly
at her lover, nodding to him with a pleasant kindly nod.  If he could have heard all that had
passed at that interview, how much more he would have known of her than he now knew, and how
proud he would have been of her love.  No word was spoken as she went out, and then she walked
home with even step, as she had walked thither.  It can hardly be said that she was disappointed,
as she had expected nothing. You see, I wouldn't trust
a lot... Yes, you can be here all day, then you can go to your castle and we will stay here in
our hut. Surely that will bother you... See what I'm doing with you now?... Mom!


"I hope it will not do him an injury in the bank."

"Oh, mamma, do not put that into my head.  If that were added to it all, I should indeed be
wretched."

"No; he is too just for that.  Poor young man!  Sometimes I almost think it would be better
that he should go back to England."

"Mamma, if he did, I should--break my heart."

"Isa!"

"Well, mamma!  But do not suppose that I mean to complain, whatever happens." His letters were well put and he was a clean,
charmer. His style was odd though. Unrelated to any other I'd ever seen and often lacked commitment of
all grammar. He certainly does not deserve to break the secret respectable
mail. 
I do not want to have him kneeling to me, and making sweet speeches; but it has gone too far
now,--and I could not bear to lose him."  And thus to her mother she confessed the truth.

