But how was I to obtain this order from the high court? It needed a special mandate from the
King; who would procure this? Who would cut short those odious delays which the law can introduce
at will into the very cases that it has previously hurried on with blind precipitation? Who
would prevent my enemies from injuring me and paralyzing all my efforts? In a word, who would
fight for me? The abbe alone could have taken up my cause; but he was already in prison on
my account. His generous behaviour in the trial had proved that he was still my friend, but
his zeal was now fettered. And what could Marcasse do, hampered by his humble birth and enigmatical
language? Evening came, and I fell asleep in the hope that help would be sent from on high;
for I had prayed to God with my whole soul. A few hours of sleep refreshed me; I was aroused
by the noise of bolts being drawn at the other side of my door. O God of goodness! what was
my delight on seeing Arthur, my brother in arms, my other self, the man from whom I had had
no secret for six long years! I wept like a child on receiving this mark of love from Providence.
Arthur did not believe me guilty! Scientific matters connected with the library at Philadelphia
had taken him to Paris, where he had heard of this sad affair in which I was implicated. He
had broken a lance with all who attacked me, and had not lost a moment in coming to offer help
or consolation.

In a transport of joy I poured out my soul to him, and then explained how he could assist me.
He wanted to take the coach for Paris that very evening; but I implored him to go to Sainte-Severe
first of all to get news of Edmee. Four mortal days had passed since I had received any; and,
moreover, Marcasse had never given me such exact details as I could have wished.

"Ease your mind," said Arthur. "I will undertake to bring you the truth. I am a pretty good
surgeon; and I have a practised eye. I shall be able to give you some idea of what you have
to hope or fear. From Sainte-Severe I shall go straight to Paris."

Two days later I received a long letter from him giving full details about Edmee.

Her condition was extraordinary. She did not speak, nor did she appear to be in pain as long
as nothing happened to excite her nerves; but on the first word which stirred up recollections
of her troubles she would be seized with convulsions. Her moral isolation formed the greatest
obstacle to recovery. Physically she wanted for nothing; she had two good doctors and a most
devoted nurse. Mademoiselle Leblanc likewise was very zealous in her attentions, though this
dangerous woman often gave her pain by untimely remarks and indiscreet questions. Furthermore,
Arthur assured me that, if ever Edmee had thought me guilty and had expressed an opinion on
this point, it must have been in some previous phase of her illness; for, during the last fortnight
at least, she had been in a state of complete torpor. She would frequently doze, but without
quite falling asleep; she could take liquid food and jellies, nor did she ever complain. When
her doctors questioned her about her sufferings she answered by careless signs and always negatively;
and she would never give any indication that she remembered the affections which had filled
her life. Her love for her father, however, that feeling which had always been so deep and
powerful in her, was not extinct; she would often shed copious tears; but at such a time she
seemed to be deaf to all sounds; in vain would they try to make her understand that her father
was not dead, as she appeared to believe. With a gesture of entreaty she would beg them to
stop, not the noise (for that did not seem to strike her ear), but the bustle that was going
on around her; then, hiding her face in her hands, lying back in her arm-chair and bringing
her knees up almost to her breast, she would apparently give way to inconsolable despair. This
silent grief, which could no longer control itself and no longer wished to be controlled; this
powerful will, which had once been able to quell the most violent storms, and now going adrift
on a dead sea and in an unruffled calm--this, said Arthur, was the most painful spectacle he
had ever beheld. Edmee seemed to wish to have done with life. Mademoiselle Leblanc, in order
to test her and arouse her, had brutally taken upon herself to announce that her father was
dead; she had replied by a sign that she knew. A few hours later the doctors had tried to make
her understand that he was alive; she had replied by another sign that she did not believe
them. They had wheeled the chevalier's arm-chair into her room; they had brought father and
daughter face to face and the two had not recognised each other. Only, after a few moments,
Edmee, taking her father for a ghost, had uttered piercing cries, and had been seized with
convulsions that had opened one of her wounds again, and made the doctors tremble for her life.
Since then, they had taken care to keep the two apart, and never to breathe a word about the
chevalier in Edmee's presence. She had taken Arthur for one of the doctors of the district
and had received him with the same sweetness and the same indifference as the others. He had
not dared to speak to her about me; but he extorted me not to despair. There was nothing in
Edmee's condition that time and rest could not triumph over; there was but little fever left;
none of her vital organs were really affected; her wounds were almost healed; and it did not
seem as if her brain were in such an excited condition that it would be permanently deranged.
The weak state of her mind, and the prostration of all the other organs could not, according
to Arthur, long withstand the vitality of youth and the recuperative power of an admirable
constitution. Finally, he advised me to think of myself; I might help towards her recovery,
and I might again find happiness in her affection and esteem.

In a fortnight Arthur returned from Paris with an order from the King for the revision of my
sentence. Fresh witnesses were heard. Patience did not appear; but I received a note from him
containing these words in a shapeless hand, "You are not guilty, so don't despair." The doctors
declared that Mademoiselle de Mauprat might be examined without danger, but that her answers
would have no meaning. She was now in better health. She had recognised her father, and at
present would never leave him; but she could understand nothing that was not connected with
him. She seemed to derive great pleasure from tending him like a child, and, on his side, the
chevalier would now and then recognise his beloved daughter; but his vital powers were visibly
decaying. They questioned him in one of his lucid moments. He replied that his daughter had,
indeed, fallen from her horse while hunting, and that she had torn her breast on the stump
of a tree, but that not a soul had fired at her, even by mistake, and that only a madman could
possibly believe her cousin capable of such a crime. This was all the information they could
draw from him. When they asked him what he thought of his nephew's absence, he answered that
his nephew was still in the house, and that he saw him every day. Was it that, in his devotion
to the good name of a family--alas! so compromised--he thought to defeat the aims of justice
by childish lies? This is a point I was never able to ascertain. As for Edmee, it was impossible
to examine her. At the first question that was asked her, she shrugged her shoulders and made
a sign that she did not wish to be bothered. As the public prosecutor insisted and became more
explicit, she stared at him and seemed to be making an effort to understand. He pronounced
my name, she gave a loud cry and fainted. He had to abandon all thoughts of taking her evidence.
However, Arthur did not despair. On the contrary, the account of this scene made him think
that Edmee's mental faculties might be about to take a favourable turn. He immediately returned
to Sainte-Severe, where he remained several days without writing to me, which caused me great
anxiety.

When the abbe was questioned again, he persisted in his calm, laconic refusal to give evidence.

My judges, seeing that the information promised by Patience was not forthcoming, hurried on
the revision of the trial, and, by another exhibition of haste, gave another proof of their
animosity. The appointed day arrived. I was devoured by anxiety. Arthur had written me to keep
up my courage, in as laconic a style as Patience. My counsel had been unable to obtain any
fresh evidence in my favour. I could see clearly that he was beginning to believe me guilty.
All he hoped for was to obtain a further delay.

XXVII

There were even more people present than at the first trial. The guard were forced back to
the doors of the court, and the crowd occupied every available space, even to the windows of
the mansion of Jacques Coeur, the town-hall of the present day. I was much agitated this time,
though I had strength and pride enough not to let it be seen. I was now interested in the success
of my case, and, as it seemed as if my hopes were not to be realized, I experienced an indescribable
feeling of uneasiness, a sort of suppressed rage, a bitter hatred of these men who would not
open their eyes to my innocence, and even of God who seemed to have deserted me.

In this state of agitation I had to make such violent efforts to appear calm that I scarcely
noticed what was happening around me. I recovered sufficient presence of mind when my fresh
examination took place to answer in the same terms as at the first trial. Then a black veil
seemed to fall over my head, an iron ring gripped my brow; the sockets of my eyes went icily
cold; I could see nothing but myself, hear nothing but vague, unintelligible sounds. I do not
know what actually took place; I do not know if any one announced the apparition which suddenly
appeared before me. I only remember that a door opened behind the judges, and that Arthur came
forward leading a veiled woman, that he took off her veil after making her sit down in a big
arm-chair which the ushers eagerly wheeled toward her, and that a cry of admiration rang through
the hall when Edmee's pale, sublime beauty was revealed.

At this moment I forgot the crowd, and the judges, and my cause, and the whole universe. I
believe that no human power could have withstood my wild rush. I dashed like a thunderbolt
into the middle of the inclosure and, falling at Edmee's feet, I showered kisses on her knees.
I have been told that this act won over the public, and that nearly all the ladies burst into
tears. The young dandies did not venture to laugh; the judges were affected; and for a moment
truth was completely triumphant.

Edmee looked at me for some time. Her face was as expressionless as the face of death. It did
not seem as if she could ever recognise me. The spectators were waiting in profound silence
for her to show some sign of hatred or affection for me. All at once she burst into tears,
threw her arms around my neck, and then lost consciousness. Arthur had her carried out immediately;
he had some trouble in making me return to my place. I could not remember where I was or the
issues that were at stake; I clung to Edmee's dress, and only wanted to follow her. Arthur
addressed the court and requested that the doctors who had examined Edmee in the morning might
again pronounce upon the state of her health. He likewise demanded that she should be recalled
to give evidence, and to be confronted with me as soon as she recovered from the attack.

"This attack is not serious," he said. "Mademoiselle de Mauprat has had several of the same
kind during the last few days and on her way here. After each her mental faculties have taken
a more and more favourable turn."

"Go and attend to the invalid," said the president. "She shall be recalled in two hours, if
you think she will have recovered from her swoon by then. Meanwhile the court will hear the
witness on whose demand the first sentence was not carried out."

Arthur withdrew and Patience was introduced. He was dressed quite neatly; but, after saying
a few words, he declared that it would be impossible to continue unless they allowed him to
take off his coat. This borrowed finery so embarrassed him and seemed so heavy that he was
perspiring profusely. No sooner did the president make a sign of consent, accompanied by a
smile of scorn, than he threw to the ground this badge of civilization. Then, after carefully
pulling down his shirt-sleeves over his sinewy arms, he spoke almost as follows:

"I will speak the truth, the whole truth. I take the oath for the second time; for I have to
speak of things that seem contradictory, things that I cannot explain to myself. I swear before
God and man that I will say what I know, and as I know it, without being influenced for or
against any one."

He lifted his big hand and turned round towards the people with a simple confidence, as if
to say, "You can all see that I am taking an oath, and you know that I am to be trusted." This
confidence of his was not ill-founded. Since the incident in the first trial the public mind
had been much occupied about this extraordinary man, who had spoken before the court with so
much daring, and harangued the people in presence of the judges. His conduct had filled all
the democrats and Philadelphians with great curiosity and sympathy. The works of Beaumarchais
were very fashionable among the upper classes, and this will explain how it was that Patience,
though opposed to all the authorities in the province, yet found himself supported and applauded
by every man who prided himself on his intelligence. They all thought they saw in him Figaro
under a new form. The fame of his private virtues had spread; for you remember that during
my stay in America, Patience had made himself known among the people of Varenne and had exchanged
his sorcerer's reputation for that of a public benefactor. They had given him the title of
the great judge, because he was always ready to intervene in disputes, and would always settle
to the satisfaction of both sides with admirable good-nature and tact.

This time he spoke in a high, penetrating voice. It was a rich voice of wide compass. His gestures
were quiet or animated, according to the circumstances, but always dignified and impressive;
the expression on his short, Socratic face was never anything but fine. He had all the qualities
of an orator; but there was no vanity in his display of them. He spoke in the plain, concise
style that he had been obliged to acquire in his recent intercourse with men, in discussions
about their practical interests.

"When Mademoiselle de Mauprat was shot," he said, "I was not more than a dozen paces from her;
but the brushwood at that spot is so thick that I could not see more than two paces in front
of me. They had persuaded me to take part in the hunt; but it gave me but little pleasure.
Finding myself near Gazeau Tower, where I lived for some twenty years, I felt an inclination
to see my old cell again, and I was bearing down upon it at a great pace when I heard a shot.
That did not frighten me in the least; it seemed but natural that there should be some gun
fired during a battue. But when I got through the thicket, that is to day, some two minutes
later, I found Edmee--excuse me, I generally call her by this name; I am, so to speak, a sort
of foster-father to her--I found Edmee on her knees upon the ground, wounded as you have been
told, and still holding the bridle of her horse, which was rearing. She did not know whether
she was seriously or slightly wounded, but she had her other hand on her breast, and she was
saying:

"'Bernard, this is hideous! I should never have thought that you would kill me. Bernard, where
are you? Come and see me die. This will kill father!'

"As she said this she let go the horse's bridle and fell to the ground. I rushed towards her.

"'Ah, you saw it, Patience?' she said. 'Do not speak about it; do not tell my father . . .'

"She threw out her arms, and her body became rigid. I thought that she was dead. She spoke
no more until night, after they had extracted the bullets from her breast."

"Did you then see Bernard de Mauprat?"

"I saw him on the spot where the deed was done, just as Edmee lost consciousness and seemed
to be giving up her soul; he seemed to be out of his mind. I thought that he was overwhelmed
with remorse. I spoke to him sternly, and treated him as a murderer. He made no reply, but
sat down on the ground by his cousin's side. He remained there in a dazed condition, even a
long time after they had taken her away. No one thought of accusing him. The people thought
that he had had a fall, because they saw his horse trotting by the side of the pond; they believed
that his carbine had gone off as he fell. The Abbe Aubert was the only one who heard me accuse
M. Bernard of having murdered his cousin. During the days that followed, Edmee spoke occasionally,
but it was not always in my presence; besides, at this time she was nearly always delirious.
I maintain that she told nobody (and least of all Mademoiselle Leblanc) what had passed between
herself and M. de Mauprat before the gun was fired. Nor did she confide this to me any more
than others. On the rare occasions when she was in possession of her senses she would say in
answer to our questions, that Bernard had certainly not done it on purpose, and several times
during the first three days she even asked to see him. However, when she was delirious she
would sometimes cry, 'Bernard! Bernard! You have committed a great crime. You have killed my
father!'

"That was her idea; she used really to think that her father was dead; and she thought so for
a long time. Very little, therefore, of what she said is to be taken seriously. The words that
Mademoiselle Leblanc has put into her mouth are false. After three days she ceased to talk
intelligibly, and at the end of a week she ceased to speak altogether. When she recovered her
reason, about a week ago, she sent away Mademoiselle Leblanc, which would clearly show that
she had some ground for disliking her maid. That is what I have to say against M. de Mauprat.
It rested entirely with myself to keep silent; but having other things to say yet, I wished
to make known the whole truth."

Patience paused awhile; the public and the judges themselves, who were beginning to take an
interest in me and lose the bitterness of their prejudices, were apparently thunderstruck at
hearing evidence so different from what they expected.

Patience continued as follows:

"For several weeks I remained convinced of Bernard's guilt. But I was pondering over the matter
the while; I frequently said to myself that a man as good and clever as Bernard, a man for
whom Edmee felt so much esteem, and whom M. le Chevalier loved like a son, a man, in short,
so deeply imbued with the spirit of justice and truth, could not between one day and the next
turn into a scoundrel. Then the idea came into my head that, after all, it might have been
some other Mauprat who fired the shot. I do not speak of the one who has become a Trappist,"
he added, looking among the audience for Jean de Mauprat, who, however was not there; "I speak
of the man whose death has never been proved, although the court thought fit to overlook this,
and to accept M. Jean de Mauprat's word."

"Witness," said the president, "I must remind you that you are not here to serve as counsel
for the prisoner, or to criticise the decisions of this court. You must confine yourself to
a statement of facts, and not express your opinion on the question at issue."

"Very well," replied Patience. "I must, however, explain why I did not wish to appear at the
first trial, seeing that the only evidence I had was against M. Bernard, and that I could not
trust that evidence myself."

"You are not asked to explain this at present. Please keep to your evidence."

"One moment. I have my honour to defend; I have to explain my own conduct, if you please."

"You are not the prisoner; you are not here to plead your own cause. If the court thinks right
to prosecute you for contempt you can see to your own defence; but there is no question of
that now."

"I beg your pardon. The question is for me to let the court see whether I am an honest man
or a false witness. It would seem that this has something to do with the case; the prisoner's
life depends on it; the court cannot consider that a matter of indifference."

"Proceed," said the King's advocate, "and try to remember the respect you owe to the court."

"I have no wish to offend the court," replied Patience. "I would merely observe that a man
may refuse to submit to the orders of the court from conscientious motives which the court
can legally condemn, but which each judge, personally, can understand and excuse. I say, then,
that I could not persuade myself of Bernard de Mauprat's guilt; my ears alone knew of it; this
was not enough for me. Pardon me, gentlemen, I, too, am a judge. Make inquiries about me; in
my village they call me 'the great judge.' When my fellow-villagers ask me to decide some tavern
dispute or the boundary of some field, I do not so much listen to their opinions as my own.
In judging a man one must take account of more than a single little act. Many previous ones
will help to show the truth or falsity of the last that is imputed to him. Thus, being unable
to believe that Bernard was a murderer, and having heard more than a dozen people, whom I consider
incapable of giving false evidence, testify to the fact that a monk 'bearing a resemblance
to the Mauprats' had been prowling about the country, and having myself seen this monk's back
and habit as he was passing through Pouligny on the morning of the event, I wished to discover
if he was in Varenne; and I learnt that he was still there; that is to say, after leaving it,
he had returned about the time of the trial last month. And, what is more, I learnt that he
was acquainted with John Mauprat. Who can this monk be? I asked myself; why does the very sight
of him frighten all the people in the country? What is he doing in Varenne? If he belongs to
the Carmelite convent, why does he not wear their habit? If he is of the same order as John,
why is he not staying with him at the Carmelites? If he is collecting money, why, after making
a collection in one place, does he not move on to another, instead of returning and bothering
people who have given him money only the day before? If he is a Trappist and does not want
to stay with the Carmelites like the other, why does he not go back to his own convent? What
is this wandering monk? And how does John Mauprat, who has told several people that he does
not know him, know him so well that they lunch together from time to time in a tavern at Crevant?
I made up my mind, then, to give evidence, though it might, in a measure, do harm to M. Bernard,
so as to be able to say what I am now saying, even if it should be of no use. But as you never
allow witnesses sufficient time to try to verify what they have reason to believe, I started
off immediately for my woods, where I live like the foxes, with a determination not to quit
them until I had discovered what this monk was doing in the country. So I put myself on his
track and I have discovered who he is; he is the murderer of Edmee de Mauprat; his name is
Antony Mauprat."

This revelation caused a great stir on the bench and among the public. Every one looked around
for John Mauprat, whose face was nowhere to be seen.

"What proof have you of this?" said the president.

"I am about to tell you," replied Patience. "Having learnt from the landlady at Crevant, to
whom I have occasionally been of some assistance, that the two Trappists used to lunch at her
tavern from time to time, as I have said, I went and took up my abode about half a league from
here, in a hermitage known as Le Trou aux Fades, situated in the middle of the woods and open
to the first comer, furniture and all. It is a cave in the rock, containing a seat in the shape
of a big stone and nothing else. I lived there for a couple of days on roots and bits of bread
that they occasionally brought me from the tavern. It is against my principles to live in a
tavern. On the third day the landlady's little boy came and informed me that the two monks
were about to sit down to a meal. I hastened back, and hid myself in a cellar which opens into
the garden. The door of this cellar is quite close to the apple-tree under which these gentlemen
were taking luncheon in the open air. John was sober; the other was eating like a Carmelite
and drinking like a Franciscan. I could hear and see everything at my ease.

"'There must be an end of this,' Antony was saying--I easily recognised the man when I saw
him drink and heard him swear--'I am tired of playing this game for you. Hide me away with
the Carmelites or I shall make a row.'

"'And what row can you make that will not bring you to the gallows, you clumsy fool!' answered
John. 'It is very certain that you will not set foot inside the monastery. I don't want to
find myself mixed up in a criminal trial; for they would discover what you are in an hour or two.'

"'And why, I should like to know? You make them all believe that you are a saint!'

"'Because I know how to behave like a saint; whereas you--you behave like a fool. Why, you
can't stop swearing for an hour, and you would be breaking all the mugs after dinner!'

"'I say, Nepomucene,' rejoined the other, 'do you fancy that you would get off scot-free if
I were caught and tried?'

"'Why not?' answered the Trappist. 'I had no hand in your folly, nor did I advise anything
of this kind.'

"'Ha! ha! my fine apostle!' cried Antony, throwing himself back in his chair in a fit of laughter.
'You are glad enough about it, now that it is done. You were always a coward; and had it not
been for me you would never have thought of anything better than getting yourself made a Trappist,
to ape devotion and afterward get absolution for the past, so as to have a right to draw a
little money from the "Headbreakers" of Sainte-Severe. By Jove! a mighty fine ambition, to
give up the ghost under a monk's cowl after leading a pretty poor life and only tasting half
its sweets, let alone hiding like a mole! Come, now; when they have hung my pretty Bernard,
and the lovely Edmonde is dead, and when the old neck-breaker has given back his big bones
to the earth; when we have inherited all that pretty fortune yonder; you will own that we have
done a capital stroke of business--three at a blow! It would cost me rather too much to play
the saint, seeing that convent ways are not quite my ways, and that I don't know how to wear
the habit; so I shall throw the cowl to the winds, and content myself with building a chapel
at Roche-Mauprat and taking the sacrament four times a year.'

"'Everything you have done in this matter is stupid and infamous.'

"'Bless my soul! Don't talk of infamy, my sweet brother, or I shall make you swallow this bottle
whole.'

"'I say that it is a piece of folly, and if it succeeds you ought to burn a fine candle to
the Virgin. If it does not succeed, I wash my hands of the whole business, do you hear? After
I had been in hiding in the secret passage in the keep, and had heard Bernard telling his valet
after supper that he was going out of his mind on account of the beautiful Edmee, I happened
to throw out a suggestion that there might be a chance here of doing a good stroke of business;
and like a fool you took the matter seriously, and, without consulting me or waiting for a
favourable moment, you went and did a deed that should have been thought over and properly
planned.'

"'A favourable moment, chicken-heart that you are! How the deuce was I to get one? "Opportunity
makes the thief." I find myself surprised by the hunt in the middle of the forest; I go and
hide in that cursed Gazeau Tower; I see my turtle-doves coming; I overhear a conversation that
might make one die of laughing, and see Bernard blubbering and the girl playing the haughty
beauty; Bernard goes off like an idiot without showing himself a man; I find on me--God knows
how--a rascally pistol already loaded. Bang! . . .'

"'Hold your tongue, you wild brute!' said the other, quite frightened. 'Do you think a tavern
is the proper place to talk of these things? Keep that tongue quiet, you wretched creature,
or I will never see you again.'

"'And yet you will have to see me, sweet brother mine, when I go and ring the bell at the gate
of the Carmelite monastery.'

"'If you come I will denounce you.'

"'You will not denounce me, for I know too much about you.'

"'I am not afraid. I have given proofs of my repentance; I have expiated my sins.'

"'Hypocrite!'

"'Come, now, hold your tongue, you madman!' said the other. 'I must leave you. There is some
money.'

"'That all?'

"'What do you expect from a monk? Do you imagine that I am rich?'

"'Your Carmelites are; and you can do what you like with them.'

"'I might give you more, but I would rather not. As soon as you got a couple of louis you would
be off for a debauch, and make enough row to betray yourself.'

"'And if you want me to quit this part of the country for some time, what do you suppose I
am to travel with?'

"'Three times already I have given you enough to take you away, haven't I? And each time you
have come back, after drinking it all in the first place of ill-fame on the frontier of the
province! Your impudence sickens me, after the evidence given against you, when the police
are on the watch, when Bernard is appealing for a fresh trial. You may be caught at any moment!'

"'That is for you to see to, brother. You can lead the Carmelites by the nose; and the Carmelites
can lead the bishop, through some little peccadillo, I suppose, done together on the quiet
in the convent after supper . . .'"

Here the president interrupted Patience.

"Witness," he said, "I call you to order. You are outraging a prelate's virtue by daring to
retail such a conversation."

"By no means," replied Patience. "I am merely reporting a drunkard's and a murderer's invectives
against the prelate. They do not concern me in the least; and every one here knows what value
to put upon them; but, if you wish, I will say no more on this point. The discussion lasted
for some time longer. The real Trappist wanted to make the sham Trappist leave the country,
and the latter persisted in remaining, declaring that, if he were not on the spot, his brother
would have him arrested immediately after Bernard's head had been cut off, so that he might
have the whole inheritance to himself. John, driven to extremities, seriously threatened to
denounce him and hand him over to justice.

"'Enough!' replied Antony. 'You will take good care not to do that, I know; for, if Bernard
is acquitted, good-bye to the inheritance!'

"Then they separated. The real Trappist went away looking very anxious; the other fell asleep,
with his elbows on the table. I left my hiding-place to take steps for his arrest. It was just
then that the police, who had been on my track for some time to force me to come and give evidence,
collared me. In vain did I point to the monk as Edmee's murderer; they would not believe me,
and said they had no warrant against him. I wanted to arouse the village, but they prevented
me from speaking. They brought me here, from station to station, as if I had been a deserter,
and for the last week I have been in the cells and no one has deigned to heed my protests.
They would not even let me see M. Bernard's lawyer, or inform him that I was in prison; it
was only just now that the jailer came, and told me that I must put on my coat and appear in
court. I do not know whether all this is according to the law; but one thing is certain, namely,
that the murderer might have been arrested and has not been; nor will he be, unless you secure
the person of John Mauprat to prevent him from warning, I do not say his accomplice, but his
protege. I state on oath that, from all I have heard, John Mauprat is above any suspicion of
complicity. As to the act of allowing an innocent man to be handed over to the rigour of the
law, and of endeavouring to save a guilty man by going so far as to give false evidence, and
produce false documents to prove his death . . ."

Patience, noticing that the president was again about to interrupt him, hastened to end his
testimony by saying:

"As to that, gentlemen, it is for you, not for me, to judge him."

XXVIII

After this important evidence the trial was suspended for a few minutes. When the judges returned
Edmee was brought back into the court. Pale and weak, scarcely able to drag herself to the
arm-chair which was reserved for her, she nevertheless displayed considerable mental vigour
and presence of mind.

"Do you think you can answer the questions which will be put to you without unduly exciting
yourself?" asked the president.

"I hope so, sir," she replied. "It is true that I have recently been seriously ill, and that
it is only within the last few days that I have recovered my memory; but I believe I have completely
recovered it, and my mind feels quite clear."

"Your name?"

"Solange-Edmonde de Mauprat; Edmea sylvestris," she added in an undertone.

I shuddered. As she said these unseasonable words her eyes had assumed a strange expression.
I feared that her mind was going to wander still further. My counsel was also alarmed and looked
at me inquiringly. No one but myself had understood these two words which Edmee had been in
the habit of frequently repeating during the first and last days of her illness. Happily this
was the last sign of any disturbance in her faculties. She shook her beautiful head, as if
to drive out any troublesome ideas; and, the president having asked her for an explanation
of these unintelligible words, she replied with sweetness and dignity:

"It is nothing, sir. Please continue my examination."

"Your age, mademoiselle?"

"Twenty-four."

"Are you related to the prisoner?"

"He is my second cousin, and my father's grand-nephew."

"Do you swear to speak the truth, the whole truth?"

"Yes, sir."

"Raise your hand."

Edmee turned towards Arthur with a sad smile. He took off her glove, and helped to raise her
arm, which hung nerveless and powerless by her side. I felt big tears rolling down my cheeks.

With delicacy and simplicity Edmee related how she and I had lost our way in the woods; how
I, under the impression that her horse had bolted, had unseated her in my eager anxiety to
stop the animal; how a slight altercation had ensued, after which, with a little feminine temper,
foolish enough, she had wished to mount her mare again without help; how she had even spoken
unkindly to me, not meaning a word of what she said, for she loved me like a brother; how,
deeply hurt by her harshness, I had moved away a few yards to obey her; and how, just as she
was about to follow me, grieved herself at our childish quarrel, she had felt a violent shock
in her breast, and had fallen almost without hearing any report. It was impossible for her
to say in which direction she was looking, or from which side the shot had come.

"That is all that happened," she added. "Of all people I am least able to explain this occurrence.
In my soul and conscience I can only attribute it to the carelessness of one of the hunting
party, who is afraid to confess. Laws are so severe. And it is so difficult to prove the truth."

"So, mademoiselle, you do not think that your cousin was the author of this attempt?"

"No, sir, certainly not! I am no longer delirious, and I should not have let myself be brought
before you if I had felt that my mind was at all weak."

"Apparently, then, you consider that a state of mental aberration was responsible for the revelations
you made to Patience, to Mademoiselle Leblanc, your companion, and also, perhaps, to Abbe Aubert."

"I made no revelations," she replied emphatically, "either to the worthy Patience, the venerable
abbe, or my servant Leblanc. If the meaningless words we utter in a state of delirium are to
be called 'revelations,' all the people who frighten us in our dreams would have to be condemned
to death. How could I have revealed facts of which I never had any knowledge?"

"But at the time you received the wound, and fell from your horse, you said: 'Bernard, Bernard!
I should never have thought that you would kill me!'"

"I do not remember having said so; and, even if I did, I cannot conceive that any one would
attach much importance to the impressions of a person who had suddenly been struck to the ground,
and whose mind was annihilated, as it were. All that I know is that Bernard de Mauprat would
lay down his life for my father or myself; which does not make it very probable that he wanted
to murder me. Great God! what would be his object?"

In order to embarrass Edmee, the president now utilized all the arguments which could be drawn
from Mademoiselle Leblanc's evidence. As a fact, they were calculated to cause her not a little
confusion. Edmee, who was at first somewhat astonished to find that the law was in possession
of so many details which she believed were unknown to others, regained her courage and pride,
however, when they suggested, in those brutally chaste terms which are used by the law in such
a case, that she had been a victim of my violence at Roche-Mauprat. Her spirit thoroughly roused,
she proceeded to defend my character and her own honour, and declared that, considering how
I had been brought up, I had behaved much more honourably than might have been expected. But
she still had to explain all her life from this point onward, the breaking off of her engagement
with M. de la Marche, her frequent quarrels with myself, my sudden departure for America, her
refusal of all offers of marriage.

"All these questions are abominable," she said, rising suddenly, her physical strength having
returned with the exercise of her mental powers. "You ask me to give an account of my inmost
feelings; you would sound the mysteries of my soul; you put my modesty on the rack; you would
take to yourself rights that belong only to God. I declare to you that, if my own life were
now at stake and not another's, you should not extract a word more from me. However, to save
the life of the meanest of men I would overcome my repugnance; much more, therefore, will I
do for him who is now at the bar. Know then--since you force me to a confession which is painful
to the pride and reserve of my sex--that everything which to you seems inexplicable in my conduct,
everything which you attribute to Bernard's persecutions and my own resentment, to his threats
and my terror, finds its justification in one word: I love him!"

On uttering this word, the red blood in her cheeks, and in the ringing tone of the proudest
and most passionate soul that ever existed, Edmee sat down again and buried her face in her
hands. At this moment I was so transported that I could not help crying out:

"Let them take me to the scaffold now; I am king of all the earth!"

"To the scaffold! You!" said Edmee, rising again. "Let them rather take me. Is it your fault,
poor boy, if for seven years I have hidden from you the secret of my affections; if I did not
wish you to know it until you were the first of men in wisdom and intelligence as you are already
the first in greatness of heart? You are paying dearly for my ambition, since it has been interpreted
as scorn and hatred. You have good reason to hate me, since my pride has brought you to the
felon's dock. But I will wash away your shame by a signal reparation; though they send you
to the scaffold, you shall go there with the title of my husband."

"Your generosity is carrying you too far, Edmee de Mauprat," said the president. "It would
seem that, in order to save your relative, you are accusing yourself of coquetry and unkindness;
for, how otherwise do you explain the fact that you exasperated this young man's passion by
refusing him for seven years?"

"Perhaps, sir," replied Edmee archly, "the court is not competent to judge this matter. Many
women think it no great crime to show a little coquetry with the man they love. Perhaps we
have a right to this when we have sacrificed all other men to him. After all, it is a very
natural and very innocent ambition to make the man of one's choice feel that one is a soul
of some price, that one is worth wooing, and worth a long effort. True, if this coquetry resulted
in the condemnation of one's lover to death, one would speedily correct one's self of it. But,
naturally, gentlemen, you would not think of atoning for my cruelty by offering the poor young
man such a consolation as this."

After saying these words in an animated, ironical tone, Edmee burst into tears. This nervous
sensibility which brought to the front all the qualities of her soul and mind, tenderness,
courage, delicacy, pride, modesty, gave her face at the same time an expression so varied,
so winning in all its moods, that the grave, sombre assembly of judges let fall the brazen
cuirass of impassive integrity and the leaden cope of hypocritical virtue. If Edmee had not
triumphantly defended me by her confession, she had at least roused the greatest interest in
my favour. A man who is loved by a beautiful woman carries with him a talisman that makes him
invulnerable; all feel that his life is of greater value than other lives.

Edmee still had to submit to many questions; she set in their proper light the facts which
had been misrepresented by Mademoiselle Leblanc. True, she spared me considerably; but with
admirable skill she managed to elude certain questions, and so escaped the necessity of either
lying or condemning me. She generously took upon herself the blame for all my offences, and
pretended that, if we had had various quarrels, it was because she herself took a secret pleasure
in them; because they revealed the depth of my love; that she had let me go to America to put
my virtue to the proof, thinking that the campaign would not last more than a year, as was
then supposed; that afterwards she had considered me in honour bound to submit to the indefinite
prolongation, but that she had suffered more than myself from my absence; finally, she quite
remembered the letter which had been found upon her, and, taking it up, she gave the mutilated
passages with astonishing accuracy, and at the same time called the clerk to follow as she
deciphered the words which were half obliterated.

"This letter was so far from being a threatening letter," she said, "and the impression it
left on me was so far from filling me with fear or aversion, that it was found on my heart,
where I had been carrying it for a week, though I had not even let Bernard know that I had
received it."

"But you have not yet explained," said the president, "how it was that seven years ago, when
your cousin first came to live in your house, you armed yourself with a knife which you used
to put under your pillow every night, after having it sharpened as if to defend yourself in
case of need."

"In my family," she answered with a blush, "we have a somewhat romantic temperament and a very
proud spirit. It is true that I frequently thought of killing myself, because I felt an unconquerable
affection for my cousin springing up in me. Believing myself bound by indissoluble ties to
M. de la Marche. I would have died rather than break my word, or marry any other than Bernard.
Subsequently M. de la Marche freed me from my promise with much delicacy and loyalty, and I
no longer thought of dying."

Edmee now withdrew, followed by all eyes and by a murmur of approbation. No sooner had she
passed out of the hall than she fainted again; but this attack was without any grave consequences,
and left no traces after a few days.

I was so bewildered, so intoxicated by what she had just said, that henceforth I could scarcely
see what was taking place around me. Wholly wrapped up in thoughts of my love, I nevertheless
could not cast aside all doubts; for, if Edmee had been silent about some of my actions, it
was also possible that she had exaggerated her affection for me in the hope of extenuating
my faults. I could not bring myself to think that she had loved me before my departure for
America, and, above all, from the very beginning of my stay at Sainte-Severe. This was the
one thought that filled my mind; I did not even remember anything further about the case or
the object of my trial. It seemed to me that the sole question at issue in this chill Areopagus
was this: Is he loved, or is he not? For me, victory or defeat, life or death, hung on that,
and that alone.

I was roused from these reveries by the voice of Abbe Aubert. He was thin and wasted, but seemed
perfectly calm; he had been kept in solitary confinement and had suffered all the hardships
of prison life with the resignation of a martyr. In spite, however, of all precautions, the
clever Marcasse, who could work his way anywhere like a ferret, had managed to convey to him
a letter from Arthur, to which Edmee had added a few words. Authorized by this letter to say
everything, he made a statement similar to that made by Patience, and owned that Edmee's first
words after the occurrence had made him believe me guilty; but that subsequently, seeing the
patient's mental condition, and remembering my irreproachable behaviour for more than six years,
and obtaining a little new light from the preceding trial and the public rumours about the
possible existence of Antony Mauprat, he had felt too convinced of my innocence to be willing
to give evidence which might injure me. If he gave his evidence now, it was because he thought
that further investigations might have enlightened the court, and that his words would not
have the serious consequences they might have had a month before.

Questioned as to Edmee's feelings for me, he completely destroyed all Mademoiselle Leblanc's
inventions, and declared that not only did Edmee love me ardently, but that she had felt an
affection for me from the very first day we met. This he affirmed on oath, though emphasizing
my past misdeeds somewhat more than Edmee had done. He owned that at first he had frequently
feared that my cousin would be foolish enough to marry me, but that he had never had any fear
for her life, since he had always seen her reduce me to submission by a single word or a mere
look, even in my most boorish days.

The continuation of the trial was postponed to await the results of the warrants issued for
the arrest of the assassin. People compared my trial to that of Calas, and the comparison had
no sooner become a general topic of conversation than my judges, finding themselves exposed
to a thousand shafts, realized very vividly that hatred and prejudice are bad counsellors and
dangerous guides. The sheriff of the province declared himself the champion of my cause and
Edmee's knight, and he himself escorted her back to her father. He set all the police agog.
They acted with vigour and arrested John Mauprat. When he found himself a prisoner and threatened,
he betrayed his brother, and declared that they might find him any night at Roche-Mauprat,
hiding in a secret chamber which the tenant's wife helped him to reach, without her husband's
knowledge.

They took the Trappist to Roche-Mauprat under a good escort, so that he might show them this
secret chamber, which, in spite of his genius for exploring walls and timber-work, the old
pole-cat hunter and mole-catcher Marcasse had never managed to reach. They took me there, likewise,
so that I might help to find this room or passage leading to it, in case the Trappist should
repent of his present sincere intentions. Once again, then, I revisited this abhorred manor
with the ancient chief of the brigands transformed into a Trappist. He showed himself so humble
and cringing in my presence, he made so light of his brother's life, and expressed such abject
submission that I was filled with disgust, and after a few moments begged him not to speak
to me any more. Keeping in touch with the mounted police outside, we began our search for the
secret chamber. At first John had pretended that he knew of its existence, without knowing
its exact location now that three-quarters of the keep had been destroyed. When he saw me,
however, he remembered that I had surprised him in my room, and that he had disappeared through
the wall. He resigned himself, therefore, to taking us to it, and showing us the secret; this
was very curious; but I will not amuse myself by giving you an account of it. The secret chamber
was opened; no one was there. Yet the expedition had been made with despatch and secrecy. It
did not appear probable that John had had time to warn his brother. The keep was surrounded
by the police and all the doors were well guarded. The night was dark, and our invasion had
filled all the inmates of the farm with terror. The tenant had no idea what we were looking
for, but his wife's agitation and anxiety seemed a sure sign that Antony was still in the keep.
She had not sufficient presence of mind to assume a reassured air after we had explored the
first room, and that made Marcasse think that there must be a second. Did the Trappist know
of this, and was he pretending ignorance? He played his part so well that we were all deceived.
We set to work to explore all the nooks and corners of the ruins again. There was one large
tower standing apart from the other buildings; it did not seem as if this could offer any one
a refuge. The staircase had completely fallen in at the time of the fire, and there could not
be found a ladder long enough to reach the top story; even the farmer's ladders tied together
with ropes were too short. This top story seemed to be in a state of good preservation and
to contain a room lighted by two loopholes. Marcasse, after examining the thickness of the
wall, affirmed that there might be a staircase inside, such as might be found in many an old
tower. But where was the exit? Perhaps it was connected with some subterranean passage. Would
the assassin dare to issue from his retreat as long as we were there? If, in spite of the darkness
of the night and the silence of our proceedings, he had got wind of our presence, would he
venture into the open as long as we continued on the watch at all points?

"That is not probable," said Marcasse. "We must devise some speedy means of getting up there;
and I see one."

He pointed to a beam at a frightful height, all blackened by the fire, and running from the
tower over a space of some twenty feet to the garrets of the nearest building. At the end of
this beam there was a large gap in the wall of the tower caused by the falling-in of the adjoining
parts. In his explorations, indeed, Marcasse had fancied that he could see the steps of a narrow
staircase through this gap. The wall, moreover, was quite thick enough to contain one. The
mole-catcher had never cared to risk his life on this beam; not that he was afraid of its narrowness
or its height; he was accustomed to these perilous "crossings," as he called them; but the
beam had been partly consumed by the fire and was so thin in the middle that it was impossible
to say whether it would bear the weight of a man, even were he as slender and diaphanous as
the worthy sergeant. Up to the present nothing had happened here of sufficient importance for
him to risk his life in the experiment. Now, however, the case was different. Marcasse did
not hesitate. I was not near him when he formed his plan; I should have dissuaded him from
it at all costs. I was not aware of it until he had already reached the middle of the beam,
the spot where the burnt wood was perhaps nothing more than charcoal. How shall I describe
to you what I felt when I beheld my faithful friend in mid-air, gravely walking toward his
goal? Blaireau was trotting in front of him as calmly as in the old days when it was a question
of hunting through bundles of hay in search of stoats and dormice. Day was breaking, and the
hildalgo's slim outline and his modest yet stately bearing could be clearly seen against the
gray sky. I put my hands to my face; I seemed to hear the fatal beam cracking; I stifled a
cry of terror lest I should unnerve him at this solemn and critical moment. But I could not
suppress this cry, or help raising my head when I heard two shots fired from the tower. Marcasse's
hat fell at the first shot; the second grazed his shoulder. He stopped a moment.

"Not touched!" he shouted at us.

And making a rush he was quickly across the aerial bridge. He got into the tower through the
gap and darted up the stairs, crying:

"Follow me, my lads! The beam will bear."

Immediately five other bold and active men who had accompanied him got astride upon the beam,
and with the help of their hands reached the other end one by one. When the first of them arrived
in the garret whither Antony Mauprat had fled, he found him grappling with Marcasse, who, quite
carried away by his triumph and forgetting that it was not a question of killing an enemy but
of capturing him, set about lunging at him with his long rapier as if he had been a weasel.
But the sham Trappist was a formidable enemy. He had snatched the sword from the sergeant's
hands, hurled him to the ground, and would have strangled him had not a gendarme thrown himself
on him from behind. With his prodigious strength he held his own against the first three assailants;
but, with the help of the other two, they succeeded in overcoming him. When he saw that he
was caught he made no further resistance and let his hands be bound together. They brought
him down the stairs, which were found to lead to the bottom of a dry well in the middle of
the tower. Antony was in the habit of leaving and entering by means of a ladder which the farmer's
wife held for him and immediately afterwards withdrew. In a transport of delight I threw myself
into my sergeant's arms.

"A mere trifle," he said; "enjoyed it. I found that my foot was still sure and my head cool.
Ha! ha! old sergeant," he added, looking at his leg, "old hidalgo, old mole-catcher, after
this they won't make so many jokes about your calves!"

XXIX

If Anthony Mauprat had been a man of mettle he might have done me a bad turn by declaring that
he had been a witness of my attempt to assassinate Edmee. As he had reasons for hiding himself
before this last crime, he could have explained why he had kept out of sight, and why he had
been silent about the occurrences at Gazeau Tower. I had nothing in my favour except Patience's
evidence. Would this have been sufficient to procure my acquittal? The evidence of so many
others was against me, even that given by my friends, and by Edmee, who could not deny my violent
temper and the possibility of such a crime.

But Antony, in words the most insolent of all the "Hamstringers," was the most cowardly in
deeds. He no sooner found himself in the hands of justice than he confessed everything, even
before knowing that his brother had thrown him over.

At his trial there were some scandalous scenes, in which the two brothers accused each other
in a loathsome way. The Trappist, whose rage was kept in check by his hypocrisy, coldly abandoned
the ruffian to his fate, and denied that he had ever advised him to commit the crime. The other,
driven to desperation, accused him of the most horrible deeds, including the poisoning of my
mother, and Edmee's mother, who had both died of violent inflammation of the intestines within
a short time of each other. John Mauprat, he declared, used to be very skilful in the art of
preparing poisons and would introduce himself into houses under various disguises to mix them
with the food. He affirmed that, on the day that Edmee had been brought to Roche-Mauprat, John
had called together all his brothers to discuss plans for making away with this heiress to
a considerable fortune, a fortune which he had striven to obtain by crime, since he had tried
to destroy the effects of the Chevalier Hubert's marriage. My mother's life, too, had been
the price paid for the latter's wish to adopt his brother's child. All the Mauprats had been
in favour of making away with Edmee and myself simultaneously, and John was actually preparing
the poison when the police happened to turn aside their hideous designs by attacking the castle.
John denied the charges with pretended horror, saying humbly that he had committed quite enough
mortal sins of debauchery and irreligion without having these added to his list. As it was
difficult to take Antony's word for them without further investigation; as this investigation
was almost impossible, and as the clergy were too powerful and too much interested in preventing
a scandal to allow it, John Mauprat was acquitted on the charge of complicity and merely sent
back to the Trappist monastery; the archbishop forbade him ever to set foot in the diocese
again, and, moreover, sent a request to his superiors that they would never allow him to leave
the convent. He died there a few years later in all the terrors of a fanatic penitence very
much akin to insanity.

It is probable that, as a result of feigning remorse in order to find favour among his fellows,
he had at last, after the failure of his plans, and under the terrible asceticism of his order,
actually experienced the horrors and agonies of a bad conscience and tardy repentance. The
fear of hell is the only creed of vile souls.

No sooner was I acquitted and set at liberty, with my character completely cleared, than I
hastened to Edmee. I arrived in time to witness my great-uncle's last moments. Towards the
end, though his mind remained a blank as to past events, the memory of his heart returned.
He recognised me, clasped me to his breast, blessed me at the same time as Edmee, and put my
hand into his daughter's. After we had paid the last tribute of affection to our excellent
and noble kinsman, whom we were as grieved to lose as if we had not long foreseen and expected
his death, we left the province for some time, so as not to witness the execution of Antony,
who was condemned to be broken on the wheel. The two false witnesses who had accused me were
flogged, branded, and expelled from the jurisdiction of the court. Mademoiselle Leblanc, who
could not exactly be accused of giving false evidence, since hers had consisted of mere inferences
from facts, avoided the public displeasure by going to another province. Here she lived in
sufficient luxury to make us suspect that she had been paid considerable sums to bring about
my ruin.

Edmee and I would not consent to be separated, even temporarily, from our good friends, my
sole defenders, Marcasse, Patience, Arthur, and the Abbe Aubert. We all travelled in the same
carriage; the first two, being accustomed to the open air, were only too glad to sit outside;
but we treated them on a footing of perfect equality. From that day forth they never sat at
any table but our own. Some persons had the bad taste to express astonishment at this; we let
them talk. There are circumstances that obliterate all distinctions, real or imaginary, of
rank and education.

We paid a visit to Switzerland. Arthur considered this was essential to the complete restoration
of Edmee's health. The delicate, thoughtful attentions of this devoted friend, and the loving
efforts we made to minister to her happiness, combined into the beautiful spectacle of the
mountains to drive away her melancholy and efface the recollection of the troublous times through
which we had just passed. On Patience's poetic nature Switzerland had quite a magic effect.
He would frequently fall into such a state of ecstasy that we were entranced and terrified
at the same time. He felt strongly tempted to build himself a chalet in the heart of some valley
and spend the rest of his life there in contemplation of Nature; but his affection for us made
him abandon this project. As for Marcasse, he declared subsequently that, despite all the pleasure
he had derived from our society, he looked upon this visit as the most unlucky event of his
life. At the inn at Martigny, on our return journey, Blaireau, whose digestion had been impaired
by age, fell a victim to the excess of hospitality shown him in the kitchen. The sergeant said
not a word, but gazed on him awhile with heavy eye, and then went and buried him under the
most beautiful rose-tree in the garden; nor did he speak of his loss until more than a year later.

During our journey Edmee was for me a veritable angel of kindness and tender thought; abandoning
herself henceforth to all the inspirations of her heart, and no longer feeling any distrust
of me, or perhaps thinking that I deserved some compensation for all my sufferings, she repeatedly
confirmed the celestial assurances of love which she had given in public, when she lifted up
her voice to proclaim my innocence. A few reservations that had struck me in her evidence,
and a recollection of the damning words that had fallen from her lips when Patience found her
shot, continued, I must confess, to cause me pain for some time longer. I thought, rightly
perhaps, that Edmee had made a great effort to believe in my innocence before Patience had
given his evidence. But on this point she always spoke most unwillingly and with a certain
amount of reserve. However, one day she quite healed my wound by saying with her charming abruptness:

"And if I loved you enough to absolve you in my own heart, and defend you in public at the
cost of a lie, what would you say to that?"

A point on which I felt no less concern was to know how far I might believe in the love which
she declared she had had for me from the very beginning of our acquaintance. Here she betrayed
a little confusion, as if, in her invincible pride, she regretted having revealed a secret
she had so jealously guarded. It was the abbe who undertook to confess for her. He assured
me that at that time he had frequently scolded Edmee for her affection for "the young savage."
As an objection to this, I told him of the conversation between Edmee and himself which I had
overheard one evening in the park. This I repeated with that great accuracy of memory I possess.
However, he replied:

"That very evening, if you had followed us a little further under the trees, you might have
overheard a dispute that would have completely reassured you, and have explained how, from
being repugnant (I may almost say odious) to me, as you then were, you became at first endurable,
and gradually very dear."

"You must tell me," I exclaimed, "who worked the miracle."

"One word will explain it," he answered; "Edmee loved you. When she had confessed this to me,
she covered her face with her hands and remained for a moment as if overwhelmed with shame
and vexation; then suddenly she raised her head and exclaimed:

"'Well, since you wish to know the absolute truth, I love him! Yes, I love him! I am smitten
with him, as you say. It is not my fault; why should I blush at it? I cannot help it; it is
the work of fate. I have never loved M. de la Marche; I merely feel a friendship for him. For
Bernard I have a very different feeling--a feeling so strong, so varied, so full of unrest,
of hatred, of fear, of pity, of anger, of tenderness, that I understand nothing about it, and
no longer try to understand anything.'"

"'Oh, woman, woman!' I exclaimed, clasping my hands in bewilderment, 'thou art a mystery, an
abyss, and he who thinks to know thee is totally mad!'

"'As many times as you like, abbe,' she answered, with a firmness in which there were signs
of annoyance and confusion, 'it is all the same to me. On this point I have lectured myself
more than you have lectured all your flocks in your whole life. I know that Bernard is a bear,
a badger, as Mademoiselle Leblanc calls him, a savage, a boor, and anything else you like.
There is nothing more shaggy, more prickly, more cunning, more malicious than Bernard. He is
an animal who scarcely knows how to sign his name; he is a coarse brute who thinks he can break
me in like one of the jades of Varenne. But he makes a great mistake; I will die rather than
ever be his, unless he becomes civilized enough to marry me. But one might as well expect a
miracle. I try to improve him, without daring to hope. However, whether he forces me to kill
myself or to turn nun, whether he remains as he is or becomes worse, it will be none the less
true that I love him. My dear abbe, you know that it must be costing me something to make this
confession; and, when my affection for you brings me as a penitent to your feet and to your
bosom, you should not humiliate me by your expressions of surprise and your exorcisms! Consider
the matter now; examine, discuss, decide! Consider the matter now; examine, discuss, decide!
The evil is--I love him. The symptoms are--I think of none but him, I see none but him; and
I could eat no dinner this evening because he had not come back. I find him handsomer than
any man in the world. When he says that he loves me, I can see, I can feel that it is true;
I feel displeased, and at the same time delighted. M. de la Marche seems insipid and prim since
I have known Bernard. Bernard alone seems as proud, as passionate, as bold as myself--and as
weak as myself; for he cries like a child when I vex him, and here I am crying, too, as I think
of him.'"

"Dear abbe," I said, throwing myself on his neck, "let me embrace you till I have crushed your
life out for remembering all this."

"The abbe is drawing the long bow," said Edmee archly.

"What!" I exclaimed, pressing her hands as if I would break them. "You have made me suffer
for seven years, and now you repent a few words that console me . . ."

"In any case do not regret the past," she said. "Ah, with you such as you were in those days,
we should have been ruined if I had not been able to think and decide for both of us. Good
God! what would have become of us by now? You would have had far more to suffer from my sternness
and pride; for you would have offended me from the very first day of our union, and I should
have had to punish you by running away or killing myself, or killing you--for we are given
to killing in our family; it is a natural habit. One thing is certain, and that is that you
would have been a detestable husband; you would have made me blush for your ignorance; you
would have wanted to rule me, and we should have fallen foul of each other; that would have
driven my father to despair, and, as you know, my father had to be considered before everything.
I might, perhaps, have risked my own fate lightly enough, if I had been alone in the world,
for I have a strain of rashness in my nature; but it was essential that my father should remain
happy, and tranquil, and respected. He had brought me up in happiness and independence, and
I should never have forgiven myself if I had deprived his old age of the blessings he had lavished
on my whole life. Do not think that I am full of virtues and noble qualities, as the abbe pretends;
I love, that is all; but I love strongly, exclusively, steadfastly. I sacrificed you to my
father, my poor Bernard; and Heaven, who would have cursed us if I had sacrificed my father,
rewards us to-day by giving us to each other, tried and not found wanting. As you grew greater
in my eyes I felt that I could wait, because I knew I had to love you long, and I was not afraid
of seeing my passion vanish before it was satisfied, as do the passions of feeble souls. We
were two exceptional characters; our loves had to be heroic; the beaten track would have led
both of us to ruin."

XXX

We returned to Sainte-Severe at the expiration of Edmee's period of mourning. This was the
time that had been fixed for our marriage. When we had quitted the province where we had both
experienced so many bitter mortifications and such grievous trials, we had imagined that we
should never feel any inclination to return. Yet, so powerful are the recollections of childhood
and the ties of family life that, even in the heart of an enchanted land which could not arouse
painful memories, we had quickly begun to regret our gloomy, wild Varenne, and sighed for the
old oaks in the park. We returned, then, with a sense of profound yet solemn joy. Edmee's first
care was to gather the beautiful flowers in the garden and to kneel by her father's grave and
arrange them on it. We kissed the hallowed ground, and there made a vow to strive unceasingly
to leave a name as worthy of respect and veneration as his. He had frequently carried this
ambition to the verge of weakness, but it was a noble weakness, a sacred vanity.

Our marriage was celebrated in the village chapel, and the festivities were confined to the
family; none but Arthur, the abbe, Marcasse, and Patience sat down to our modest banquet. What
need had we of the outside world to behold our happiness? They might have believed, perhaps,
that they were doing us an honour by covering the blots on our escutcheon with their august
presence. We were enough to be happy and merry among ourselves. Our hearts were filled with
as much affection as they could hold. We were too proud to ask more from any one, too pleased
with one another to yearn for greater pleasure. Patience returned to his sober, retired life,
resumed the duties of "great judge" and "treasurer" on certain days of the week. Marcasse remained
with me until his death, which happened towards the end of the French Revolution. I trust I
did my best to repay his fidelity by an unreserved friendship and an intimacy that nothing
could disturb.

Arthur, who had sacrificed a year of his life to us, could not bring himself to abjure the
love of his country, and his desire to contribute to its progress by offering it the fruits
of his learning and the results of his investigations; he returned to Philadelphia, where I
paid him a visit after I was left a widower.

I will not describe my years of happiness with my noble wife; such years beggar description.
One could not resign one's self to living after losing them, if one did not make strenuous
efforts to avoid recalling them too often. She gave me six children; four of these are still
alive, and all honourably settled in life. I have lived for them, in obedience to Edmee's dying
command. You must forgive me for not speaking further of this loss, which I suffered only ten
years ago. I feel it now as keenly as on the first day, and I do not seek to find consolation
for it, but to make myself worthy of rejoining the holy comrade of my life in a better world
after I have completed my period of probation in this. She was the only woman I ever loved;
never did any other win a glance from me or know the pressure of my hand. Such is my nature;
what I love I love eternally, in the past, in the present, in the future.

The storms of the Revolution did not destroy our existence, nor did the passions it aroused
disturb the harmony of our private life. We gladly gave up a large part of our property to
the Republic, looking upon it, indeed, as a just sacrifice. The abbe, terrified by the bloodshed,
occasionally abjured this political faith, when the necessities of the hour were too much for
the strength of his soul. He was the Girondin of the family.

With no less sensibility, Edmee had greater courage; a woman and compassionate, she sympathized
profoundly with the sufferings of all classes. She bewailed the misfortune of her age; but
she never failed to appreciate the greatness of its holy fanaticism. She remained faithful
to her ideas of absolute equality. At a time when the acts of the Mountain were irritating
the abbe, and driving him to despair, she generously sacrificed her own patriotic enthusiasm;
and her delicacy would never let her mention in his presence certain names that made him shudder,
names for which she herself had a sort of passionate veneration, the like of which I have never
seen in any woman.

As for myself, I can truthfully say that it was she who educated me; during the whole course
of my life I had the profoundest respect for her judgment and rectitude. When, in my enthusiasm,
I was filled with a longing to play a part as a leader of the people, she held me back by showing
how my name would destroy any influence I might have; since they would distrust me, and imagine
my aim was to use them as an instrument for recovering my rank. When the enemy was at the gates
of France, she sent me to serve as a volunteer; when the Republic was overthrown, and a military
career came to be merely a means of gratifying ambition, she recalled me, and said:

"You must never leave me again."

Patience played a great part in the Revolution. He was unanimously chosen as judge of his district.
His integrity, his impartiality between castle and cottage, his firmness and wisdom will never
be forgotten in Varenne.

During the war I was instrumental in saving M. de la Marche's life, and helping him to escape
to a foreign country.

Such, I believe, said old Mauprat, are all the events of my life in which Edmee played a part.
The rest of it is not worth the telling. If there is anything helpful in my story, try to profit
by it, young fellows. Hope to be blessed with a frank counsellor, a severe friend; and love
not the man who flatters, but the man who reproves. Do not believe too much in phrenology;
for I have the murderer's bump largely developed, and, as Edmee used to say with grim humour,
"killing comes natural" to our family. Do not believe in fate, or, at least, never advise any
one to tamely submit to it. Such is the moral of my story.

After this old Bernard gave us a good supper, and continued conversing with us for the rest
of the evening without showing any signs of discomposure or fatigue. As we begged him to develop
what he called the moral of his story a little further, he proceeded to a few general considerations
which impressed me with their soundness and good sense.

I spoke of phrenology, he said, not with the object of criticising a system which has its good
side, in so far as it tends to complete the series of physiological observations that aim at
increasing our knowledge of man; I used the word phrenology because the only fatality that
we believe in nowadays is that created by our own instincts. I do not believe that phrenology
is more fatalistic than any other system of this kind; and Lavater, who was also accused of
fatalism in his time, was the most Christian man the Gospel has ever formed.

Do not believe in any absolute and inevitable fate; and yet acknowledge, in a measure, that
we are moulded by instincts, our faculties, the impressions of our infancy, the surroundings
of our earliest childhood--in short, by all that outside world which has presided over the
development of our soul. Admit that we are not always absolutely free to choose between good
and evil, if you would be indulgent towards the guilty--that is to say, just even as Heaven
is just; for there is infinite mercy in God's judgments; otherwise His justice would be imperfect.

What I am saying now is not very orthodox, but, take my word for it, it is Christian, because
it is true. Man is not born wicked; neither is he born good, as is maintained by Jean Jacques
Rousseau, my beloved Edmee's old master. Man is born with more or less of passions, with more
or less power to satisfy them, with more or less capacity for turning them to a good or bad
account in society. But education can and must find a remedy for everything; that is the great
problem to be solved, to discover the education best suited to each individual. If it seems
necessary that education should be general and in common, does it follow that it ought to be
the same for all? I quite believe that if I had been sent to school when I was ten, I should
have become a civilized being earlier; but would any one have thought of correcting my violent
passions, and of teaching me how to conquer them as Edmee did? I doubt it. Every man needs
to be loved before he can be worth anything; but each in a different way; one with never-failing
indulgence, another with unflinching severity. Meanwhile, until some one solves the problem
of making education common to all, and yet appropriate to each, try to improve one another.

Do you ask me how? My answer will be brief: by loving one another truly. It is in this way--for
the manners of a people mould their laws--that you will succeed in suppressing the most odious
and impious of all laws, the lex talionis, capital punishment, which is nothing else than the
consecration of the principle of fatality, seeing that it supposes the culprit incorrigible
and Heaven implacable.