Rosanne, meanwhile, went into the dining-room and had something cold brought to her there by
Maria, the old Cape cook.  All the other servants were out for the evening, as was the rule
on the rare occasions when the family did not entertain.  Having dined, the girl went to her
bedroom.  The house was of the bungalow type--everything on the ground floor and no upper stories.
All the bedrooms gave on to the great veranda that ran round the house, but Rosanne's room,
being at the corner, had two French windows, one facing the front garden with a full view of
the tennis-courts and drive, the other, shaded by creepers and a great tree-fern, looked out
to the clustered trees and winding paths of the side gardens.  It was from this door that Rosanne
emerged, half an hour later, dressed in something so subtly night-coloured that she looked
like a grey moth flickering through the trees of the garden. Softly she let herself out of
the little side gate chiefly used by the servants, and, slipping from shadow to shadow in the
dim lights of quiet back streets, she made her way toward the commercial part of the town.
The main street--that same Du Toit's Pan Road where John Ozanne's hotel had once flourished--was
brightly lighted by large arc-lamps, but never once did Rosanne come within range of these.
It was in a dingy lane giving off from the big thoroughfare that she at last stopped before
a shop whose shuttered window bore the legend--"Syke Ravenal: Jeweller."  Upon an undistinguished
looking side door she knocked gently, distinctly, three times.  It opened as if by magic, and,
like a shadow, she slipped into the darkness behind it.

Harlenden was a little early.  Rosanne had said nine o'clock, and it wanted, perhaps, twenty
minutes to the hour when he rang at Tiptree House and was told by Maria, after a few moments'
waiting, that she could not find Miss Rosanne anywhere.

"Very well; I'll wait here," he said, and, lighting a cigar, sat down in one of the deep chairs
in the dimly lighted veranda.

He was a lean, fair, well-groomed man, with a hard-cut face that told nothing.  You had to
make your own deductions from a pair of stone-grey eyes, a mouth close-lipped without being
cold, and a manner not wanting in indications of arrogance that yet pleased by a certain careless
grace and sureness.  As Emerson says, "Do as you please, and you may do as you please, for,
in the end, if you are consistent you will please the world."  Perhaps it was his unfailing
habit of following out this rule that made the world respect Denis Harlenden, even if it were
not pleased with him.  Certainly, his people would not be very pleased that he had chosen a
Kimberley hotel-keeper's daughter to carry on the line of one of the oldest baronetcies in
England.  But, to speak with truth, he had given neither his people nor the Kimberley Hotel
a thought in the matter.  He loved Rosanne for her wit, her beauty, her courage, a certain
sportsmanlike daring which showed in all her actions, and her unlikeness to any other woman
he had ever known.  Moreover, he was certain that she was the one woman who could keep his
love without boring him.  He, like Kitty Drummund, was aware of unfathomed depths in her, and
he was not at all sure that he should like everything he found in those depths if he ever fathomed
them.  But, in any case, he preferred them to shallows.  A shallow woman could not have kept
Denis Harlenden's heart for a week--or a day.  He also valued surprises, and Rosanne was full
of surprises.

She gave him one now.  At the sound of a slight, crushing of gravel underfoot, he had risen
and stepped toward the end of the veranda, and, standing there beside the great tree-fern,
he saw her coming from the side garden into the faint rays of light from the house.  She had
her two hands folded over her breast as though holding something precious there, and her face
was rapt.  He had never before seen her in that odd, sheathlike garment of silver-grey velvet.
It gave her, he thought, with that brooding look on her face and her faintly smiling mouth,
an air of moon-like mysteriousness.  Almost as silently as a moonbeam, she slid into the veranda
and would have passed on into her room but that he put his arms round her and drew her to his
heart.

The thought had come over him suddenly to test her courage and coolness thus, and she did not
disappoint him.  For a moment he felt her heart fluttering like a wild bird against his; then
she gave a little low laugh.

"Oh, Denis!" she whispered, against his lips.  But when he let her go he saw that her face
was white as milk.

"You were frightened, then?" he questioned.

"No, no; I knew at once it was you--by the scent of your dear coat." She stroked it with one
hand, then made to move away, but he still held her.  What had made her turn white, then, if
she were not afraid?

"Let me go away and change my gown," she said, trying to edge away into the dark.

"But why?  I love it.  You are like a witch of the moon in it."

"No; it isn't a nice gown," she insisted childishly and still tried to escape, but he could
be obstinate, too.

"I want you to keep it on--and, darling, darling, don't waste any of the moments we may be
together!  You told me yourself it could only be an hour."

She gave a deep sigh.  It was true.  Moments spent with him were too precious to waste.  There
might not be so many more.  Still, she did not abandon her plan to get away from him to her
room, if only for a minute.  Gently she resisted his half-movement to lead her to a chair.
He knew, by now, that she was holding something in her left hand which she did not wish him
to see.  They remained standing by the tree-fern, each will striving for supremacy.  In the
meantime, he went on speaking in his extraordinary charming voice that had power to make her
heart ache with even the memory of its dear sound.

"Not that I can see why I should only have an hour."

"Mother will be back by ten," she said.

"Why shouldn't she know at once?  I don't like this hole-and-corner business, Rosanne.  It
is not good enough for you."  He kissed her on the lips, and added, "Or me."

Her face was in shadow, but his was not, and she could see that fires were lighted in the stone-grey
eyes that banished all its masklike impassivity and brought a wonderful beauty into it.  She
stood trembling to his kiss and his voice and the magic of her love for him. Almost it seemed
as if she must do as he wished.  But she knew she must not.  If her mother once knew, everyone
would have to know, and how brutal that would be to him when she had to tell him that it must
all come to an end, that she could not and would not marry him!

"You must let me tell her tonight," he was saying, with quiet firmness.

"No, no!" she faltered.

"Yes.  And there is another thing; give me your left hand, Rosanne."

She did not give it so much as that he drew it from behind her.  It was tightly clenched. 
Holding it in his own, he drew her to a chair at last.  She seemed to have no more strength
to resist.  Then, sitting down before her, he gently unclenched one finger after another until
what she had hidden there lay sparkling in the night.  Almost as if it had been something evil,
he shook it from her palm into her lap, and taking her hand to his lips, kissed it, then placed
upon the third finger a ring.

"You must only like the jewels I give you, Rosanne," he said, with unveiled meaning.

They sat there for a long, aching, exquisitely silent moment, her hand in his, the great square
emerald set in a wonderful filigree and scrolling of gold on her finger, the other thing gleaming
with a baleful light between them.  Then the spell broke with the roll of carriage wheels on
the drive.  A minute later, Mrs. Ozanne came into the veranda, Rosalie clinging to her arm.
Harlenden was on his feet instantly, and, before Rosanne could intervene, had proffered his
request to speak to her mother.  The latter looked as much dazed by his words as his presence.

"Not tonight, Sir Denis, please."

"It is rather important," he pleaded, looking very boyish.  But she seemed to notice nothing,
and shook her head.

"Some other time--my poor Rosalie is ill--in trouble; she has heard some distressing news."

He drew back at once, apologizing, and a few minutes later was gone. Rosanne followed her mother
and sister into the house, a strangely yearning, sorrowful look upon her face.  Nothing was
said.  Rosalie seemed half-fainting, and her mother, still supporting her, led her to the door
of her bedroom.  They disappeared together.  Rosanne stared after them, but made no attempt
to help.  When they had gone, she sat still in the hall, waiting.  Sometimes she looked at
the sparkling thing in her hand (she had caught it up from her lap when her mother came into
the veranda), a slim, flexible string of diamonds for weaving in the hair--glowing and glimmering
like spurts of flame imprisoned within frozen dewdrops.  Sometimes she looked at the great
emerald Denis Harlenden had set on her finger.  But her eyes had something of the fixed, unseeing
stare of the sleep-walker.  At last Sophia Ozanne came back and stood beside her.  Neither
looked at the other.

"What is it mother?" she asked, in a low voice.

"Richard Gardner is very ill.  They hoped it was only a sore throat that would soon yield to
treatment; but he went to a specialist today--that Doctor Stratton who came out to see the
Cape governor's throat--and he seems to think--"  Poor Mrs. Ozanne halted and choked as if
she herself were suffering from an affection of the throat.  Rosanne still sat silent and brooding.

"He seems to think it is something malignant--and, in that case, he and poor Rosalie--"  She
broke down.

"Will never be able to marry, mother?" asked Rosanne, not curiously, only sadly, as if she
knew already.  Her mother nodded.

"Who told you?"

"Richard's brother was at the Chilvers'; he thought we had better know at once."

Mrs. Ozanne sat down by the little Benares table and, resting her face on her hands, began
to cry quietly.  Rosanne stared before her with an absorbed stare.  She seemed in a very transport
of grave thought.  When Mrs. Ozanne at length raised her eyes for an almost furtive glance,
she thought she had never seen anything so tragic as her daughter's face. Her own was working
horribly with misery and some urgent necessity.

"Rosanne!" she stammered at last, afraid of the sound of her own words. "Couldn't you do something?"

The girl removed her dark gaze from nothingness and transferred it to her mother's imploring,
fearful eyes.

"Oh, mother!" she said quietly.  "Oh, mother!  I am more unhappy than you or Rosalie can ever be!"

PART II

Rosalie Ozanne kept her bed for a week or more.  She had sunk into a sort of desolate lethargy
of mind and body from which nothing could rouse her.  Her mother was in despair.  Richard Gardner
was too ill to come to see the girl he loved, and he did not write.  The blow that had fallen
upon his promising and prosperous life seemed to have shattered his nerves and benumbed his
initiative.  He had no words of hope for Rosalie; so he said nothing.  Thus, in silence and
apart, the two were suffering their young agony of wrecked hopes and love laid on its bier.

Rosanne, meanwhile, to all appearances, went on her way rejoicing.  For a moment, in the shock
of mutual grief over Rosalie's trouble, she and her mother had drawn nearer in spirit, and
strange words of sorrow and sympathy, as though dragged from her very depths, had come faltering
from the girl's lips.  But the next day all trace of such unaccustomed softness had disappeared.
She was her gay, resilient self once more, bright and hard as the stones she loved to wear,
and more reserved and withdrawn from her family than ever.  She avoided both her mother and
sister as much as possible, spending most of her time in her own room or with her friend Kitty
Drummund.  As usual, too, she was often out riding and driving--but no longer with Denis Harlenden.
Major Satchwell had been received back into the favour of her intimate friendship, and it was
he who was always to be found riding or limping at her side.

Harlenden had not called at Tiptree House since the night when, after the Chilvers' dinner-party,
he had requested an interview with Mrs. Ozanne and been asked to wait until a more propitious
moment.  Indeed, the latter, with mind full of foreboding and sorrow for her stricken child,
had almost forgotten that he had ever made such a request.  But Rosanne had not forgotten.
And Rosanne knew why her lover stayed away from Tiptree House.  He had made his reason sufficiently
clear in a letter she had received the morning after their last meeting in the veranda.  The
terse sentences of that letter were like himself--cold and quiet without, but with the burn
of hidden fires beneath the surface.

"Until you are prepared to let the world know how things are with us, I shall not come again.
And another thing, Rosanne: I love you.  Your kiss is on my lips, and no other woman's lips
shall ever efface its exquisite memory  You love me, too, I think.  But do you love me more
than certain other things?  If not, and if you cannot be the Rosanne I wish you to be, caring
only for such things as are worthy of your beauty and my pride, this love of ours can never
come to its perfection but will have to be rooted out and crushed as a useless, hopeless thing.
When you see this as I do, send for me.  I shall not be long in coming."

Curiously enigmatic words if read by any but the eyes for which they were intended.  But Rosanne
knew what they meant, and read them with her teeth dug into her lip and cheeks pale as a bone.
The first time she read them she burst into a furious, ringing laugh, and crushing the letter
into a ball, flung it into the waste-paper basket and went out. That was the afternoon on which
she renewed her friendship with Everard Satchwell.  But when she came home she sought the waste-paper
basket, and taking out the letter, uncrumpled it and read it again.  Thereafter she read it
many times.  Sometimes she went to bed with it crushed to her breast.  But she never answered
it.  Instead, she wrote to Everard Satchwell and completed the work, already begun, of beguiling
him back into her life just as he was beginning to hope he could do without her.

One day, when she was out riding with him, they met Harlenden riding alone.  He had a moody,
lonely look that wrenched at her heart for a moment until she saw the civilly indifferent smile
with which he returned her half-appealing glance and Satchwell's cheery greeting.  As their
eyes met, his were so empty of what she knew they could contain for her that her heart turned
cold in her breast.  For the first time, the well-bred impassivity of his face irked and infuriated
her.  She doubted, almost hated him.  She could have struck him with her riding-whip because
he gave no sign of the hurt she had dealt him, but, instead, her face grew almost as smilingly
masklike as his own; only when she got home, within the refuge of her bedroom walls, did it
change and become distorted with pain and rage, its beauty marred and blotted out with tears.

That he should ride coolly by and give no sign, while her heart ached as if a knife were in
it, while she drained to the dregs the cup of lonely love!  That was bitter.  But bitterer
still the knowledge that within herself lay the reason of their separation, as well as the
power to end it.  She could bring him back this very hour if she wished, was her thought. 
Yet, could she?  Were not those other bonds that held her soul in slavery stronger than herself--stronger
(as he had suggested in his letter) than her love for Denis Harlenden?

Miserably, her face lifeless and pale as the face of one who has lain among the ashes of renouncement
and repentance, she rose from the bed where she had flung herself weeping, and creeping to
an old-fashioned oak bureau of heavy make, sat down before it and began to unlock its many
drawers and take therefrom a number of little jewel-cases.  One by one she opened these and
spread before her the radiant, sparkling things they contained with their myriad points of
light and dancing colour.  She ran the things through her fingers and bathed her hands in them
like water.  Then she curved her palms into a cup and held them filled to the brim with such
a sparkling draught as only a god could drink--a draught with fire and ice in it, blood and
crystal water, purity and evil.  The roses of life and the blue flowers of death were all intermingled
and reflected in that magic draught of frozen fire and liquid crystal.  As the girl gazed into
it, colour came back to her pale face, and her eyes caught and returned the flashing beams
of light.  It almost seemed as if she and the stones, able to communicate, were exchanging
the signals of some secret code.

One jewel was more beautiful than all the rest, the lovely, flexible chain of stones she had
been holding to her breast that night when Harlenden surprised her coming from the garden into
the veranda--the thing he had shaken from her hand into her lap as if it had been a toad. 
She remembered Harlenden, now, as she gazed into the iridescent shapes of light, seeming to
see in their brilliant, shallow depths worlds of romance that every-day life knew not of. 
At last she caught the thing up and kissed it burningly, then pressed it against her heart
as if it possessed some quality of spikenard to ease the pain she still felt aching there.
The sound of the dinner-gong shook her from her strange dreams, and hastily, yet with a sort
of lingering regret, she began to gather up the jewels and lay them once more into their downy
nests of white velvet.  Her fingers caressed and her eyes embraced every single stone as she
laid it away.

"I must get some more," she murmured feverishly to herself; "I must get some more--soon!"

She had forgotten Denis Harlenden now.  Her lips took on a hungry, arid line, and her eyes
were suddenly hard and more brilliant than the stones she handled.  The lust of diamonds, which
is one of the greatest and most terrible of all the lusts, had got her in its scorpion-claws
and was squeezing love from her heart and beauty from her soul.

"Rosanne, your sister is worse," her mother said, at dinner.  They had reached dessert, but
these were the first words that had passed between them.  Rosanne's shoulders moved with the
suggestion of a shrug.

"I think she gives way," she remarked coldly.  "She could shake off that illness with the exercise
of a little self-control."

"It is easy to talk like that when you are not the sufferer, dear.  You forget that her whole
heart is wrapped up in Dick.  I believe that if he dies, she will--."  The mother's words ended
in something very like a sob.  She looked utterly worn out and wretched.  Her eyes wistfully
searched Rosanne's, but the latter's mood appeared to be one of complete sang-froid.

"You always look on the worst side of things, mother," she said calmly. "If Dick dies, and
I daresay he will--cancer of the throat is nearly always fatal, I believe--Rosalie will get
over it in time and marry some other man."

"Rosanne, I never thought you could be so heartless!"

"Nonsense, mother; it isn't heartlessness but common sense, and I think you ought not to encourage
Rosalie by being sympathetic.  A little bracing brutality is what she needs to pull her out
of her misery."

Mrs. Ozanne rose, her eyes shining with anger as well as tears.

"I forbid you to speak to me of your unhappy sister unless you can speak kindly," she said,
and added harshly; "I sometimes think, Rosanne, that you are either not my child or that that
Malay woman bewitched and cast some evil spell over you when you were a baby."

Rosanne looked at her with musing eyes.

"I have sometimes thought so myself," she said slowly, "and that, instead of you reproaching
me, it is I who have the right to reproach you for bartering me away to witchcraft rather than
letting me die an innocent little child."

Sophia Ozanne's lips fell apart, and the colour died slowly out of her handsome, wholesome-looking
face.  She said nothing while she stood there gazing for a long minute at her daughter; but
her breath came laboriously, and she held her hand over her heart as if she had received a
blow there.  At last, in silence, she walked heavily from the room.

Rosanne helped herself daintily to fruit salad, but when she had it on her plate she did nothing
but stare at it.  After a few moments she rang the bell and sent out a message to the stables
that she would require the carriage for an hour.

"And tell my mother, if she asks, that I have gone to Mrs. Drummund's," she directed old Maria,
as she went away to her room to put on a hat and wrap.

"It is pretty awful at home now," she complained to Kitty Drummund, some twenty minutes later.
"The whole house is wrapped in gloom because Dick Gardner has a sore throat.  One might as
well live in a mausoleum."

"Dearest, it is a little more than a sore throat, isn't it?  Len saw Tommy Gardner today, and
he says Dick is in awful pain and can't speak. They are sending him away to the Cape tonight,
as a last hope.  Doctor Raymond, there, is supposed to be wonderfully clever with affections
of the throat, though I must say I don't believe it will be much good, since Stratton has condemned
him."

"Oh, talk about something else, Kit, for heaven's sake!" cried Rosanne, with a sudden access
of desperate irritation.  "I can't bear any more Dick Gardner."

Kitty stroked the hair and bare shoulders of the girl sitting on the floor beside her.

"I know you're not really heartless, Nan, but you do sound so sometimes.  I expect all this
trouble at home is on your nerves a little bit.  Tell me, how are your own affairs, darling?
Is the engagement still going on?"

"No; the engagement is finished.  I told you I never meant to marry him."

"I think you are making an awful mistake, Nan.  He's the only man for you--the only man who
can----"

"Can what?" asked Rosanne, with fierce moodiness.  "Save my soul alive?"

"How strange!  Those were the very words I was going to use, though I don't know why.  They
just came into my head."

"Everyone seems to be hitting the right nail on the head tonight," commented Rosanne dryly.
"First, my mother; now, you.  I wonder who'll be the third.  All good things run in threes,
don't they?"

Kitty knew better than to try to cope with her in that mood, so she remained silent until Rosanne
rose and caught up her hat.

"Oh, don't go yet, darling!  Do stay and see Len.  He had to go out directly after dinner,
but he promised not to be long.  Fancy!  They're having such excitement up at the compound.
But I don't know whether I ought to tell you, though," she finished doubtfully.

"Oh, yes, do!" said Rosanne, wearily ironical.  "Do tell me something that will make life seem
less of an atrocious joke than it is--especially if you oughtn't to tell."

"Well, we're not supposed to breathe anything like this outside the compound walls, you know.
Len told me not to mention it to a soul; but I don't expect he meant to include you, for, of
course, you are all right."

"Of course!"  Rosanne smiled mockingly at herself in the mirror before which she was arranging
her hair preparatory to posing her hat upon it.

"Well, my dear, just think!  They've discovered a Kafir boy in the compound who has been stealing
thousands of pounds' worth of diamonds for months, and passing them to someone outside.  They
caught him in the act this afternoon."

"How frightfully exciting!"  Rosanne had put her hat on now, but was still manoeuvring to get
it at exactly the correct angle over her right eye.  "How did he do it?"

"He made a little tunnel from under his sleeping-bunk to the outside of the compound wall,
about a yard and a half long, and through that he would push a parcel of diamonds by means
of a stick with a flat piece of tin at the end of it, something like a little rake and exactly
the same length as the tunnel.  He always pushed a little heap of earth through first, so as
to cover the diamonds up from any eyes but those of his confederate outside.  When the confederate
had removed the diamonds, he pushed back the earth against the tin rake, which the boy always
left in place until he had another packet of diamonds ready to put through.  In this way the
hole was never exposed, except during the few moments, once a week, when the boy was putting
in a fresh packet."

"But how awfully thrilling!" exclaimed Rosanne.

"Yes; isn't it?  What they want to do now is to catch the confederate who is, of course, the
real culprit, for encouraging an ignorant Kafir to steal."

"Who could it possibly be?"

"Goodness knows!  Such heaps of people come inside this outer compound, tradespeople, servants
with messages, and so on.  But just think of it, Nan!  Thousands of pounds' worth, and the
Kafir boy only got ten pounds for each packet he pushed through."

"Well, what would a Kafir do with thousands of pounds, anyway?" said Rosanne, laughing irrelevantly.
"I think ten pounds was quite enough."

"That's true--too much for the wretch, indeed!  However, he has confessed and told everything
he could to help our people to trap the other wretch.  Unfortunately, that is not very much."

"No?"

"No; he says he has never seen the man who fetches the diamonds.  The only one he has ever
seen was a man he is not able to describe because he is so ordinary-looking, who came to his
kraal in Basutoland about seven months ago, and made the whole plan with him to come and work
on contracts of three months at a time as a compound-boy, steal as many diamonds as he could,
and pass them out in the way I have described. Each parcel was to cost ten pounds and to contain
no less than ten diamonds.  No money passed between them, but every time a parcel was put through
the tunnel, the confederate on the other side put a blue bead in its place among the sand.
The boy found the bead and kept it as a receipt, and when he came out at the end of every three
months' contract he wore a bracelet of blue beads on his wrist.  Naturally, the authorities
didn't take any notice of this when they searched him, for nearly all Kafirs wear beads of
some kind.  These beads were quite a common kind to look at; only when they were examined carefully
were they found to have been passed through some chemical process which dyed the inside a peculiar
mauve colour, making it impossible for the Kafir to cheat by adding ordinary blue beads (of
which there are plenty for sale in the compound) to his little bunch of 'receipts.'"

"How clever!" said Rosanne.  "And how are they going to catch the confederate?  Put a trap-parcel,
I suppose, and pounce on him when he comes to fetch it?"

She had seated herself again, opposite Kitty, her arms resting on the back of the chair, her
face vivid with interest.

"Cleverer than that," announced Kitty.  "They are going to put the trap and watch who fetches
it.  But they won't pounce on him; they mean to follow him up and arrest the whole gang."

"Gang?"

"Len says there's sure to be a gang of them, and for the sake of getting them all, parcel after
parcel of stones will be put through the tunnel, if necessary, until every one of them is traced
and arrested."

"Rather risky for the diamonds, I should think!"

"They'll only put inferior ones in.  Besides, the Kafir boy's contract is up in a week's time,
and if all the gang aren't caught by then, they're going to let the boy go out and meet his
confederate to deliver his beads, and then the arrest will be made."

"Surely the Kafir was able to describe him, if he had been in the habit of meeting him every
three months?"

"He says he was a young white boy, very thin, who wears a mask and an overcoat.  They have
met twice at night, in an old unused house in the Malay compound, the other side of Kimberley.
Can you imagine any one running such awful risks for the sake of diamonds, Nan?  But Len says
it goes on all the time--this illicit diamond-buying business--and the company loses thousands
of pounds every year and is hardly ever able to catch the thieves.  They're as clever as paint!
They have to be, for if they are caught it means ten to twenty years' imprisonment for them,
as they know.  Mustn't it be awful to live in such a state of risk and uncertainty, never knowing
when you're going to be found out, for, of course, there are plenty of detectives on the watch
for illicit buying all the time?"

"Awful--yes, but terribly exciting," Rosanne said musingly.  "Don't you think so?" she added
quickly, and began to pull on her gloves.

"Ah, don't go, yet!" cried Kitty.  "Len will be dreadfully disappointed to find you gone."

"Tell him you told me the story," laughed Rosanne.  "That will cheer him up."

"I don't think I shall," said Kitty soberly.  "I'm afraid he'd be awfully mad with me, after
all, even though it is only you I've told. He'll say women can't keep things to themselves,
and that you're sure to tell someone else, and so the whole thing will get about."

"You needn't worry, dear.  It will never get about through me," said Rosanne quietly, and,
kissing Kitty good-night, she went her ways.

As she passed through the brightly lit outer compound, stepping briskly toward the big gate,
she was aware of more than one lurking shadow behind the blue-ground heaps.  Also, it seemed
to her that various guards were more alert than usual in their guardhouses.  But she gave no
faintest sign of observing these things, greeted the guard at the gate pleasantly, and, passing
out to the street, stepped into the waiting carriage and was driven home.  It wanted a few
minutes to midnight when she stole from the veranda door of her room once more, dressed in
her dim, straight gown of moonlight velvet with a swathe of colourless veil about her head
and, sliding softly through the garden, went out into the quiet streets of the town until she
came, at last, to a little indistinguished door next to a jeweller's window, whereon was neatly
inscribed the name, "Syke Ravenal."  On knocking gently three times, the door opened mechanically
to admit her.  Inside all was dark; but a few paces down a passage brought her to a door that
opened into a small but brightly lighted room.  An elderly man was seated at a table engaged
in beautifully illuminating a parchment manuscript.  This was Syke Ravenal.

"You are very late, my child," he said, in a gently benevolent tone. His voice was rich and
sonorous.

"It was not safe to come before."

"Safe?"  His dark, hawk-like face did not change, but there was a sound in his voice like the
clank of broken iron.

"They've caught Hiangeli," she said.

"Ah!"  He carefully folded the manuscript between two protecting sheets of blotting-paper and
placed it in the drawer of his table.  His hands shook as if with ague, but his voice was as
perfectly composed as his face when he spoke again.

"Tell me all about it, my child."

"They got him in the compound today, as he was putting the parcel through.  He has confessed
as much as he knows about your son going to the kraal, and the blue beads, and the old house
in the Malay compound where he was paid.  They have now set a trap-parcel of stones and are
sitting in wait to catch the confederate."  She sank down in a chair opposite to him and leaned
her elbows on the table.  "To catch me," she said slowly.

He looked at her keenly.  Her face was deadly pale, but there was no trace of fear in it. 
Whatever Rosanne Ozanne may have been, she was no coward.  Neither was the man opposite her.

"Ah!  They have no inkling, of course, that it was you who met Hiangeli and paid him?"

"No; he was not able to tell them any more than that it was a white boy."  She added, with
the ghost of a smile, "A thin, white boy, in a mask and an overcoat."

"Well, that's all right.  They won't catch you, and they won't catch me, and Saul is safe in
Amsterdam.  Luck is on our side, as she always is on the side of good players.  Hiangeli must
foot the bill, because he played badly."

Rosanne sat listening.  It was plain that Hiangeli's fate was a matter of indifference to her,
but some storm was brewing behind her smouldering eyes.  Ravenal went on calmly:

"It's been a good game while it lasted.  The pity is that it must come to an end."

Then the storm broke forth.

"But it must not come to an end!" she burst out violently.  "I can't live without it!"

The man looked at her reflectively.

"You're a great sport.  I've never known a woman with finer nerve. But, just the same, the
game has got to come to an end."

"Game!  You don't understand.  It is meat and drink to me.  I must have diamonds."  She sounded
like a woman pleading for some drug to deaden pain, memory, and conscience.  Her voice was
wild; she put out her hands to him in an imploring gesture.  "I have given up everything for
them--everything!"

He shook his head.

"We can't do any more of it," he said inflexibly.  "Not for a year, at the outside."

Her hands fell on the table.  She shivered as though she already felt cold and hunger.

"Suffer torment for a year?" she muttered.  "It is impossible.  I can't.  I have nothing else.
I've sacrificed everything to it--duty, friendship, love!"  She leaned her head in her hands,
and Ravenal did not hear the last words.

"Pull yourself together, my child.  It is not like you to give way like this.  Listen: Go home
now and sit tight.  Nerve and a quiet going about your ways are what are needed for the next
few weeks.  Don't come near me unless you have anything important to communicate; then come
in the ordinary way to the shop with some jewel to be mended.  But remember: There is no possible
channel through which they can connect either of us with Hiangeli, and nothing in the world
to fear."

"It is not fear I feel," she said dully.

"I know.  It is disappointment.  You are broken-hearted because the black diamonds cannot be
handed over to you."

She did not speak, but if ever a woman's face betrayed hunger and passionate longing, hers
did at that moment.  All her beauty was gone. There was nothing but a livid mask with two burning
eyes.  A pitying look crossed Ravenal's face.  He was not an unkindly man.

"Poor child," he said gently, "it's hard on you!"  For a moment he seemed to hesitate, then,
coming to a swift decision, rose and went over to a safe embedded in the wall, and unnoticeable
by reason of a piece of Oriental embroidery pinned above it and a chair standing carelessly
before it.  Unlocking it, he brought to the table a small jewel-case.

"I'll tell you what I'll do.  I can't let you have it for good, because it's not earned yet.
Twenty more rough stones are wanted from you before this is yours.  That was the bargain. 
But, considering all the circumstances, I'll lend it to you for a while."

Before he had finished speaking she had seized the case from his hands and pressed it open.
A magnificent pendant gleamed up at her with all the smoky, mysterious beauty of black diamonds.

"I know I can trust you with it, for I have trusted you with more than that.  My life is in
your hands, just as much as yours is in mine.  So keep the thing, and finish paying for it
when you can.  If we're never able to get any more rough diamonds from the mine, you'll have
to pay in money."

She hardly seemed to hear, so wrapped was she in the contemplation of her new treasure, brooding
and crooning over it like a mother with a child.  He watched her for a moment, then rose and
fetched the grey veil she had cast off on entering.

"Come now, my child; it is late, and you must be gone.  Be careful.  I know I need not remind
you of the oath between us three."

"Silence--and suicide, if necessary," she murmured mechanically.  She had taken the jewel from
its case and was threading it on a chain round her throat, "Death rather than betray the other
two."

"That's it," said the other, with cheerful firmness.  "Now, good-night."

He lowered the lights and opened the door of the room.  She passed into the dark passage, and
he returned to the table and pressed a button which opened the front door.  When he heard it
softly close, he knew that she was out of the house and on her way home.

But her adventures were not yet over.  Before she had gone very far she was aware of being
followed.  A mirror in a shop window reflected, afar off, the silhouette of the only other
person besides herself in the now silent street--a tall man in a slouch hat.  Apparently he
had on shoes as light as her own, for his feet made no more noise than hers, though her fine
ear detected the steady beat of them behind her.  For the first time, she knew terror.  Supposing
it were a detective who had tracked her from Syke Ravenal's door, and was now waiting to arrest
her as she entered her own home!  She realized that her courage had lain in the knowledge of
absolute security, for now, at the menace of discovery, her heart was paralyzed with fright
and she could scarcely breathe.  Instinct told her to run, but acquired self-control kept her
from this madness, and, by a great effort, she continued walking quietly as before.  Gradually
her nerve returned.  She determined, by feint, to discover whether the man were really following
her or if his presence were due to accident.  Having now arrived at the residential part of
the town, where every house stood back from the road and was sheltered by a garden, she coolly
opened a gate at random and walked boldly in.  The man was still some way behind, and she had
ample time to pass through the garden and reach the veranda before he drew near.

It was a house strange to her, and she had not the faintest idea who lived there.  All the
windows and doors were closed and shuttered, but light showed through a fanlight over the hall
door.  The veranda, blinded by heavy green mats, contained the usual array of chairs, and she
sank down on one, her heart beating like a drum, her ears strained to hear her pursuer pass.
Instead, to her horror, she heard the gate briskly unlatched and footsteps on the path.  Terrified
by this unexpected move, and sure, now, that the end had come, she sprang to her feet and stood
waiting like a straight, grey ghost for the man to enter the veranda.  The light above the
hall door fell full on him, and it is hard to say whether dismay or horror were strongest in
her when she recognized Harlenden.

"Denis!" she stammered.

"Why are you here, Rosanne?" he asked quietly.  "Do you need me?"

Astonishment kept her dumb for a moment, then, with a realization of the position, came anger.

"How dare you follow me?" she exclaimed, in a low, tense voice.

"I live in this house."

"You live here?" she faltered, and sat down suddenly, trembling from head to foot.

"Yes; and I have just returned from the club."

"Then it was not you following me?"

At that she sprang up and threw herself into his arms in a frenzy of fear.

"Who was it, then?  Oh, Denis, Denis, save me; take me into your house--hide me!"

"Hush!" he said gently, and, keeping a supporting arm about her, guided her round the veranda,
took a key out of his pocket, and let her and himself in by a side door.  He closed and locked
the door behind them, put her into a chair, then examined the window to make sure it was closed
as well as shuttered.  It was a man's sitting-room, full of the scent of leather and tobacco.
Going to a spirit-stand on the table he poured out some brandy.

"Drink this," he said, in the same firm tone he had used all along, and mechanically she obeyed
him.

"Where are we?" she murmured.  "Whose house is this?  I thought you lived at the club?"

"So I did until last week, when this house was lent me.  Don't be afraid.  The servants are
all in bed, and there is no one about.  You are much safer here than roaming about the streets
at one in the morning."

"Then you were following me?"

"Certainly I was following you.  I saw you come out of Syke Ravenal's shop and I walked behind
you, but only because your way and mine happened to be in the same direction."

She passed her hand over her eyes with a hopeless gesture.  It seemed as though this endless
day of terrors and surprises would never be done, and she was weary, weary.  He sat regarding
her with grave eyes. She looked like a little, tired, unhappy child, and his heart was sick
with longing to gather her in his arms and comfort her and take her sorrows on himself.  But
he knew that there were things beyond his help here, unless she gave him her full confidence
and cast her burdens into his hands.

"Rosanne," he said, at last, "I ask you to trust me."

She looked at him with wretched eyes and a mouth tipped at the corners as though she would
weep if she could.  In truth, the enchantment of this man's love and her love for him was on
her again, and the poignant torment of it was almost too exquisite to bear.  His voice stole
through her senses like the music of an old dream.  His lean, strong frame, the stone-grey
eyes, and close-lipped mouth all spoke of that power in a man which means safety to the woman
he loves.  Safety!  Only such a storm-petrel as Rosanne Ozanne, weary, with wings beaten and
torn by winds whose fateful forces she herself did not understand, could realize the full allure
of that word.  She felt like a sailor drowning in a wild sea, within sight of the fair land
he never would reach.  That fair land of safety was not for her feet, that had wandered down
such dark and shameful paths.  But, oh, how the birds sang on that sweet shore!  How cool were
the green pastures!  Small wonder that her face wore the tortured misery of a little child.
Denis Harlenden's heart turned to water at the sight of it, and the blood thrummed in his veins
with the ache to crush her to his breast and keep her there against the world and against herself,
spite of all the unfathomed things in her which estranged him.  But he was strong enough to
refrain from even touching her hands.  Only his voice he could not stay from its caresses.

"Is not love enough for you, Rosanne?"

She trembled under it like leaves in the wind and lifted her eyes to his.  They looked long
into each other's souls through those windows which can wear so many veils to hide the truth.
But, in that moment, the veils were lifted, and both saw Truth in all her naked terror and
beauty.  What he saw scorched and repelled but did not daunt him; instead, a nobler love, chivalrous
and pitiful, was born of the sight. And she saw that love, and knew it great enough to clothe
her even if she came to him stripped of fair repute and the world's honours.

"Yes; it is enough," she said brokenly, and cast a thing she wore about her neck to the floor.
Then, suddenly, she collapsed in her chair and fell into a fit of dry weeping.  Long, bitter
sobs shook her frame and seemed to tear their way out of her body.  She was like a woman wrenched
upon the rack.  Harlenden could do nothing but stand and wait, his own face twisted with pain,
until the storm was past.  Gradually it died away, with longer and longer intervals between
the shuddering sighs.  At last, she uncovered her face, bleached and ravaged by the tearless
storm, yet wearing a gentler beauty than ever it had known, and rose trembling to her feet.

"Take me home, Denis," she whispered.  He wrapped her veil about her and she felt the thrill
of his hands upon her, but he did not kiss her. They had come closer to each other than any
kiss could bring them. Just as they were passing from the room, she remembered something and
stepped back.

"I must touch that vile thing again," she said, "because it does not belong to me and must
go back to where it came from."  She stooped and picked the black, glittering object from the
floor.

A spasm contracted Harlenden's face, but he asked no question. Silently they went from the
house and into the dark streets.  There was no moon.  At her gate, he stooped and kissed her lips.

Mrs. Ozanne got up the morning of the following day with the urgent feeling on her of something
to be done.  It seemed as if there were some move to be made that would help her and her children
in their unhappiness, only she didn't know what the move was.  But she always remembered, afterward,
with what feverish urgency she dressed, putting on walking-things instead of a wrapper, and
stepping from her room into the bustling atmosphere of the house with a determined indifference
to the tasks and interests that usually occupied her attention.

Rosalie was as surprised to see her mother dressed for going out as was the mother to find
her daughter at the breakfast-table.

"Why, Rosalie, my darling, this is an unexpected joy!"

"Yes, mother; I thought I would make an effort."

It was the first time that the girl had been out of her room for over two weeks, and she looked
frail as a snowdrop, and nearly as white.

"You can't have two daughters sick abed, you know," she added, with a wistful smile.

"Is Rosanne still----"  Mrs. Ozanne often left questions and remarks about her other daughter
unfinished.

The latter had spent the whole of the previous day in her room, seeming physically unable to
leave her bed.

"Yes; I'm afraid she's really ill.  She just lies there, not speaking or eating, and she looks--oh,
mother, she looks so unhappy!"

"I begged her yesterday to see the doctor."

"She says no doctor can do her any good, and that we must just leave her alone.  I fancy she's
thinking out something that she's terribly worried about."

"There is something wrong," said the mother heavily.  "Oh, Rosalie, if she were only like you,
and would not hide her heart from those who love her!"

"We can't all be alike, mother darling!  Rosanne has a stronger character for better or worse
than I have.  It is easy for me to throw my troubles on other people's shoulders, but she is
capable of bearing in silence far greater sorrows, and of making far greater sacrifices."

"It is not a happy nature," sighed her mother.  "I wonder if Kitty Drummund can do any good
if I send for her?"

"Better not, mother.  She says she wants to see no one at present, and you know she was at
Kitty's the night before last."

"I have asked her so often not to go out at night like that--even to Kitty's.  I dare say she
caught cold driving."

"Poor Rosanne!  It is more than a cold she has!"

Sophia Ozanne looked at her little, fair daughter with tender eyes, remembering the heartless
way Rosanne had spoken of her sister's grief only two nights before.

"How different you are, my Rosalie--forgetting your own sorrow to think of others!"

The girl's eyes filled with tears, but she did not shed them.

"I'm afraid it's only another form of selfishness, mummie dear.  I want to be kind and loving
to all the world, just so that God will be good to me and give Dick another chance."

"My poor, poor child!"  The mother's arms were round her in a moment, ready for comfort, but
Rosalie pushed her gently away, smiling with quivering lips.

"Don't pity me, mother.  I'm determined to be brave, whatever comes. But tell me, where are
you going, all prinked out in your walking-things?"

"I--I don't know yet, dear."  Mrs. Ozanne looked startled and embarrassed.  "I have various
things to do."

"It's a frightful morning.  Do you think you ought to go out?"

"I must," was the elder woman's firm answer, and she bustled away before there was time for
further questioning.  Not for anything did she mean to be deterred from the pressing desire
in her to go out. Rosalie had been perfectly right about the weather.  It was that arid time
of year when the air swirls in gusts of hot wind, laden with gritty blue sand from the debris-heaps,
and the finer red dust of the streets.  Kimberley dust is notoriously the worst of its kind
in a land plagued with dust.  Buluwayo runs it pretty close, and Johannesburg, in the spring
months, has special sand-devils of its own, but nothing in Africa has ever quite come up to
Kimberley at its worst.  This was not one of its worst, however; merely a day on which all
who had wisdom sat at home within closed doors and sealed windows, awaiting a cessation of
the penetrating abomination of filth.

Often, during the morning, Mrs. Ozanne found herself wondering what she was doing wandering
about the town on such a day.  Desultorily, and with an odd feeling that this was not what
she should be about, she let herself be blown along the street and in and out of shops, face
bent down, eyes half closed, bumping blindly into people, her skirts swirling and flacking,
her hat striving its utmost to escape and take the hair of her head with it.  There were no
necessary errands to do. The servants did the shopping, and she rarely went out except to drive
in the afternoons.  Vaguely she wondered why she had not used the carriage this morning.

Lunch-time came, but she could not bring herself to return home.  It seemed to her that there
was still something she must do, though she could not remember what.

In the end, she went into a clean, respectable little restaurant and lunched off a lamb chop
and boiled potatoes, regardless of the excellent lunch that awaited her at home.  Then, like
a restless and unclean spirit, out she blew once more into the howling maelstrom of wind and dust.

She began to feel, at last, as if it were a nightmare, this necessity that urged her on, she
knew not whither.  Dimly, her eyes still blinded by dust, she was aware that she had left the
main thoroughfares and was now in a poorer part of the town.  With the gait of a sleep-walker,
she continued on her way, until suddenly a voice addressing her jerked her broad-awake.

"You come see me, missis?"

A woman had opened the door of a mean tin house and stood there waiting in the doorway, almost
as if she had been expecting Sophia Ozanne.  The latter stood stone-still, but her mind went
racing back to a winter afternoon seventeen years before, when she had sat in her bedroom with
the little dying form of Rosanne upon her knees, and a voice speaking from the shadow of her
bedroom had said, "Missis sell baby to me for a farthing; baby not die."  The same voice addressed
her now, and the same woman stood in the doorway of the mean house gazing at her with large,
mournful eyes.  It was Rachel Bangat, the Malay cook.

"You come see me die, missis?" she questioned, in her soft, languorous voice.

"Die!  Are you sick, Rachel?" said Mrs. Ozanne.

"Yes, missis; Rachel very sick.  Going die in three days."

Sophia Ozanne searched the dark, high-boned face with horror-stricken eyes, but could see no
sign of death on it, or any great change after seventeen years, except a more unearthly mournfulness
in the mysterious eyes.

But she had often heard it said that Malays possess a prophetic knowledge of the hour and place
of their death, and she could well credit Rachel Bangat with this strange faculty.

"How my baby getting along, missis?"

Such yearning tenderness was in the question that Mrs. Ozanne, spite of a deep repugnance to
discuss Rosanne with this woman, found herself answering:

"She is grown up now, Rachel."

"She very pretty?"

"Yes."

"And very rich?"

"We are well-off."

"But she?  I give her two good gifts that make her rich all by herself. She no use them?"

"What gifts were those, Rachel?"  The mother drew nearer and peered with haggard eyes at the Malay.

"I tell you, missis.  Because I love my baby so much and want her be very rich and happy, I
give her two good things--the gift of bright stones and the gift of hate well."

Sophia Ozanne drew nearer still, staring like a fascinated rabbit into the mournfully sinister
dark eyes, while the soft voice rippled on.

"She no use those gifts I give her?  I think so.  I think she say, 'I hate that man,' and he
die, sometimes quick, sometimes slow.  Or she not hate too much, and he only get little sick.
Or she wish him bad in his business, and he get bad.  That not so?"

Sophia Ozanne thought of the black list she had kept for years of all the people whom Rosanne
disliked and who had come to ill.  In swift procession they passed through her mind, and Dick
Gardner, with his anguished throat, walked at the end of the procession.

"Yes."  Her dry lips ejected the word in spite of her wish to be silent.

"Ah!" said the Malay, softly satisfied.  "And the bright stones?  She not get all she want
without buy?"

This time, Mrs. Ozanne did not answer; only her blanched face grew a shade whiter.  The woman
leaned forward and spoke to her earnestly, imploringly.

"You tell her get rich quick with the bright stones before too late. Her power going soon.
Rachel die in three days, and then gifts go away from Rachel's baby.  No more power hate or
get bright stones.  Tell her quick, missis.  I make you come here today so you can go back
tell her. All night and all morning I stand here make you come to me.  Now, go back quick,
tell my baby.  Three days!  Eight o'clock on third night, Rachel die."

As strangely as she had appeared, the Malay withdrew into her wretched shanty and closed the door.

Sophia Ozanne never knew by what means and in what manner she reached her home that day, but
at about five o'clock she came into the hall of Tiptree House, and was met by her daughter
Rosalie with the news that Rosanne had got up from her bed and left the house, taking a suitcase
with her.

"And, oh, mother, I could see that she was in a high fever, her cheeks were so flushed and
her eyes like fire!  What shall we do?"

Her mother sat down and wiped great beads of moisture from her pallid face.

"I think we will pray, Rosalie," she said slowly.

It was still broad afternoon when Rosanne walked openly into Syke Ravenal's shop, bag in hand.
The benevolent-faced old man, occupied in cleaning the works of a watch, looked up with the
bland inquiring glance of a tradesman to a customer.  But his face changed when he saw her eyes.

"You have news?" he asked, in a low tone.

"Take me to the inner room," she ordered curtly.  Without demur, he led the way.  The moment
the door closed on them she flung the heavy leather bag on to the table.

"Take them," she cried wildly; "take them back!  They are all there. Not one is missing."

"Hush, my child--hush!" he gently urged.  But she would not be hushed.

"I hate you," she said passionately.  "I curse the day I entered this shop, an innocent girl,
and was beguiled by you and your son and my mad passion for diamonds into becoming your tool
and accomplice.  Oh, how I hate you!  I can never betray you because of my oath, but I curse
you both, and I pray I may never see or hear of you again."

"That's all right, my child," he said soothingly.  She threw him one glance of loathing and
contempt and walked from the place.

Rosanne had taken to her bed again, and this time when they brought the doctor she was too
ill to object, too ill to do anything but lie staring in a sort of mental and physical coma
at the ceiling above her.

"Let her be," said the old-fashioned family doctor, who had known her from babyhood.  "She
has a splendid constitution and will pull through. But let her have no worries of any kind."

So they left her alone, except in the matter of ministering occasional nourishment, which she
took with the mechanical obedience of a child.

For two days Rosanne lay there, silent and strange.  The third day her sickness took an acute
form.  She tossed and moaned and called out in her pain, her face twisted with torture.  Her
mind appeared to remain clear.

"Mother, I believe I am dying," she said, after one such spell, during the afternoon.  "I feel
as if something is tearing itself loose from my very being.  Does it hurt like this when the
soul is trying to escape from the body?"

"I have sent for the doctor again, darling."

"It is nothing he can cure.  It is here, and here that I suffer." She touched her head and
her heart.  "But, oh, my body, too, is tortured!"

She lay still a little while, moaning softly to herself while her mother stood by, sick with
distress; then she said:

"Send for Denis Harlenden, mother.  I must see him before I die."

Mrs. Ozanne asked no question.  Her woman's instinct told her much that Rosanne had left unsaid.
Within half an hour, Harlenden was being shown into the drawing-room, where she awaited him.
He came in with no sign upon his face of the anxiety in his heart.  This was the fourth day
since he had seen Rosanne, and she had sent him no word.

"Sir Denis, my daughter is very ill.  I don't know why she should be calling out for you----"
She faltered.  Marks of the last few days' anxiety were writ large upon her, but she was not
wanting in a certain patient dignity.

Harlenden strode over and took her hands in his as he would have taken the hands of his own mother.

"It is because we love each other," he said gently, "and because, as soon as she will let me,
I am going to marry her."

A ray of thankfulness shone across her features.

"Marriage!  I don't know, Sir Denis; but, if you love her I can tell you something that will
help you to understand her better, and perhaps you can help her."

Briefly, and in broken words, she related to him the strange incident of Rosanne's babyhood,
its seeming effect upon her character, and the Malay's extraordinary words of two days before.
She did not disguise from him that she believed Rosanne guilty, whether consciously or unconsciously,
of many dark things, but she pleaded for her child the certainty that she had been in the clutches
of forces stronger than herself.

"About the diamonds," she finished, at last, "I know nothing, and I am afraid to think.  Did
you read of that awful case of suicide in yesterday's paper--that man, Syke Ravenal, who has
been robbing De Beers?  I am tormented with the thought that she may have known something of
him--yet how could she?"

