GEORGE WALKER AT SUEZ

by Anthony Trollope

Of all the spots on the world's surface that I, George Walker, of Friday Street, London, have
ever visited, Suez in Egypt, at the head of the Red Sea, is by far the vilest, the most unpleasant,
and the least interesting.  There are no women there, no water, and no vegetation.  It is surrounded,
and indeed often filled, by a world of sand.  A scorching sun is always overhead; and one is
domiciled in a huge cavernous hotel, which seems to have been made purposely destitute of all
the comforts of civilised life.  Nevertheless, in looking back upon the week of my life which
I spent there I always enjoy a certain sort of triumph;--or rather, upon one day of that week,
which lends a sort of halo not only to my sojourn at Suez, but to the whole period of my residence
in Egypt.

I am free to confess that I am not a great man, and that, at any rate in the earlier part of
my career, I had a hankering after the homage which is paid to greatness.  I would fain have
been a popular orator, feeding myself on the incense tendered to me by thousands; or failing
that, a man born to power, whom those around him were compelled to respect, and perhaps to
fear.  I am not ashamed to acknowledge this, and I believe that most of my neighbours in Friday
Street would own as much were they as candid and open-hearted as myself.

It is now some time since I was recommended to pass the first four months of the year in Cairo
because I had a sore-throat.  The doctor may have been right, but I shall never divest myself
of the idea that my partners wished to be rid of me while they made certain changes in the
management of the firm.  They would not otherwise have shown such interest every time I blew
my nose or relieved my huskiness by a slight cough;--they would not have been so intimate with
that surgeon from St. Bartholomew's who dined with them twice at the Albion; nor would they
have gone to work directly that my back was turned, and have done those very things which they
could not have done had I remained at home.  Be that as it may, I was frightened and went to
Cairo, and while there I made a trip to Suez for a week.

I was not happy at Cairo, for I knew nobody there, and the people at the hotel were, as I thought,
uncivil.  It seemed to me as though I were allowed to go in and out merely by sufferance; and
yet I paid my bill regularly every week.  The house was full of company, but the company was
made up of parties of twos and threes, and they all seemed to have their own friends.  I did
make attempts to overcome that terrible British exclusiveness, that noli me tangere with which
an Englishman arms himself; and in which he thinks it necessary to envelop his wife; but it
was in vain, and I found myself sitting down to breakfast and dinner, day after day, as much
alone as I should do if I called for a chop at a separate table in the Cathedral Coffee-house.
And yet at breakfast and dinner I made one of an assemblage of thirty or forty people.  That
I thought dull.

