After the Invocation, in the very beginning of the Poem, he's preparing the Incidents for his
Hero's Death; he brings him to Jerusalem at the Passover with Hosanna's; then raises his Machines,
and falls to the Description of Hell. He through the whole, uses his Figures very gracefully;
few have been more happy in Comparisons, more moving in Passion, succinct, yet full in Narration:
Yet is he not without Faults; or in the second Book he brings him to his last Supper in the
Garden, from thence before Caiaphas and Pilate; which too much precipitates the main Action:
Besides, it seems harsh and improbable to bring in S. John, and Joseph, our Saviour's reputed
Father, as he does in the Third and Fourth Book, giving Pilate an account of his Life; not
to insist on the general Opinion, that Joseph was not then alive. But notwithstanding these
few failures, it can't be deny'd, that his Description of our Saviour's Passion in the Fourth
Book, is incomparably fine; the disturbance among the Angels on that occasion; his Character
of Michael, and the Virgins Lamentation under the Cross, and at the Sepulchre, are inimitable.
And thus much for Vida, on whom I've been more large because I've often made use of his Thoughts
in this following Work; his Poem being the most complete on that Subject I've ever seen or
expect to see. And here han't the English more reason to complain of Rapin, that he takes no
notice of their Heroic Poems, than Lupez Viga of Tasso, for not mentioning the Spaniards at
the Siege of Jerusalem: but since he has been so partial, as not to take any notice of our
Writers, who sure as much deserve it as their Dubartas and Ronsard; we may have liberty to
speak of our own, and to do 'em Justice: To begin with Spencer, who I think comes the nearest
Ariosto of any other; he's almost as Irregular, but much more Natural and Lovely: But he's
not only Irregular but Imperfect too, I mean, as to what he intended; and therefore we can't
well imagine what it wou'd have been, had he liv'd to complete it. If Fable be the Essence
of Epic, his Fairy Queen had certainly enough of that to give it that Name. Gondibert methinks
wants Life; the Style is rather stiff than Heroic, and has more of Statius than Virgil; one
may see every where a great deal of Art, and Pains, and Regularity, even to a fault; nor is
a Genius wanting, but it's so unnatural, that an ingenious Person may find much more pleasure
in reading a worse Poet. The governor of Senegal, yet fearing the world would one day reproach him for
his inhumanity, decided we should have a place in one of the virtues. This having in some Model
measure quieted our fears concerning our desirous situation, i was great Sweetness of some repose,
but the uproar among the crew was doubtless'unfortunate I could not obtain
it. Towards midnight, a passenger to inquire of my father if we
were disposed to depart; he answer, we had been forbid to go so. His Hero is according to the ancient Model, truly Poetical,
a mixture of some Faults and greater Virtues. He had the advantage of both Love and Honour
for his Episodes, nay, and Friendship too, and that the noblest in History. He had all the
sacred History before him, and liberty to chuse where he pleased, either by Narration or Prophecy;
nor has he, as far as he has gone, neglected any advantage the Subject gave him. Its a great
Loss to the World that he left the Work unfinish'd, since now he's dead, its always like to
continue so. As for Milton's Paradise Lost its an Original, and indeed he seems rather above
the common Rules of Epic than ignorant of them. Its I'm sure a very lovely Poem, by what ever
Name it's call'd, and in it he has many Thoughts and Images, greater than perhaps any either
in Virgil or Homer.