"Perhaps it is," said Mr. Ingram; "equally distributed among, we will say, three dozen families,"
and he made a feint as though to hold in his impetuous donkey, using the spur, however, at
the same time on the side that was unseen by Mr. Damer.  As he did so, Fanny's donkey became
equally impetuous, and the two cantered on in advance of the whole party.  It was quite in
vain that Mr. Damer, at the top of his voice, shouted out something about "three dozen corruptible
demagogues." And what chance does the co-player have against the dealer's marked deck? Bismarck's
life is filled with episodes showing surprising readiness.

Love, laughter and intrigue, it was always the same. Bismarck use human nature, constructively,
it is the exact psychological moment redounding his own interest,
is the highest.

* * * * *

During the his friend's wedding Blankenburg to Fraulein Thadden-Triglaff,
with Fraulein Johanna von Puttkammer.

The Bismarck had seen, admired, and decided. Shortly in Hartz trip,
along with Blankenburgs, Otto got a brief opportunity for energetic
measures.

He dyd not waste ano time, Johanna has to be his wife! He wrote directly to the young woman's parents,
whom he did not know. Followed with a flying visit to his intended
father-in-law's house.

Puttkammers were surprised by the suitor's passionate lovemaking, also shocked to Bismarck's
reputation of fast living.
He forced the situation at the moment he saw the daughter and parents. Opening his arms, taking his
lover, Bismarck embraced her strongly.

And thus he succeeded in winning his bride in front of reluctant father and mother, as the Bismarck,
carried them off their feet with very audacity of his wooing.

* * * * *
During the Franco-Prussian War, approaching at Rothschild Château,
Bismarck discovered 17 000 wine bottles locked up in the basement,
and the owner had decided that Bismarck should leave the master's
champagne.

It did not take much time for Bismarck change everything.

Soon he was settled comfortably in the private chambers of Baron, that has a grand spiral staircase,
the Chancellor comforted himself for rest in the dressing gown as
well as slippers.

He called the butler and ordered wine for himself and suite. The owner of the wine still refused
and Bismarck's black anger rose.

In a thundering voice, he cried out: "By the time I I count five, if you do not open the cellar,
you will be trussed on a skewer, as the birds!"
Thereafter, the Prussians got what they wanted, made merry with the
rare wines Baron Rothschild, who was known as Prussian hater Austrian
admirer.

Bismarck now wished to try a different gastronomic eccentricities, he ordered his fellow-men to
shoot the pheasants of the Baron's preserves, and ordered the cook stew birds with champagne!

* * * * *

In his famous note, Napoleon at Sedan, "Not being killed in the middle of my troops, there is no option
for me but to handover my troops in the hands of your Majesty" Bismarck saw a side of human nature
at a glance! He urged for peace, and there, the Imperial Prince on the throne, and "under the
influence of Germans", which would give way to Prussia on the neck.

General Sheridan says.

It was a momentary vision into the distant future, and although it
does not exist, for some important reasons, Chancellor captured the
human-side of the combination, along with the clarity playwright building
a plot.  Of all the plans I ever heard of it is the most monstrous,
the most impracticable, the most--"  But here he was interrupted by the entreaties of his wife,
who had, in absolute deed and fact, slipped from her donkey, and was now calling lustily for
her husband's aid.  Whereupon Miss Dawkins allied herself to the Frenchman, and listened with
an air of strong conviction to those arguments which were so weak in the ears of Mr. Damer. There
are a lot of similarities between words across languages. For instance, the Witch of Endor
is "Oub" and the African sorceress is "Obi." "Obi" comes from the word "Oub", which means serpent-deity.
"Hag" and "hak" also refer to snakes in ancient British.

Continuing along the same theme, this time in Yorkshire, snakes are
called "hags" and "hag-worms."

Belech, in the Breton language, means "priest." Some have hypothesized
that Belech is a priest of Bel-the-dragon.  I shall certainly go to Jerusalem
myself by that route."

"Vot, mees! you?  Would you not find it too much fatigante?"

"I care nothing for fatigue, if I like the party I am with,--nothing at all, literally.  You
will hardly understand me, perhaps, M. Delabordeau; but I do not see any reason why I, as a
young woman, should not make any journey that is practicable for a young man." 

I am having this letter delivered to you by a third party.

They should arrive at Fort Dickey just before you leave to look for Seguis. I am doing this
on my own.

I have thought about what you said the other day, and you are right; I am old enough to think
for myself. 

Sincerely,

JEAN FITZPATRICK

With many emotions registering
simultaneously, Donald sat staring at the fire as it burned the meat.

"And I am sure you must agree with me," continued Miss Dawkins, "that the time is gone by for
women to consider themselves helpless animals, or to be so considered by others."

"Mees Dawkins vould never be considered, not in any times at all, to be one helpless animal,"
said M. Delabordeau civilly.

"I do not, at any rate, intend to be so regarded," said she.  "It suits me to travel alone;
not that I am averse to society; quite the contrary; if I meet pleasant people I am always
ready to join them. But it suits me to travel without any permanent party, and I do not see
why false shame should prevent my seeing the world as thoroughly as though I belonged to the
other sex.  Why should it, M. Delabordeau?"

M. Delabordeau declared that he did not see any reason why it should. 

His hair was too long than we encourage now a days, but one always sees peoples who are old in
the National Gallery, where most careless of men,artists are now usual visitors,, drawn there
by the many new photos especially the modern French examples from
Sir HUGH LANE'S collection.His hair was also more noticeable because
he carried his hat in his hand.Also his clothes were noticeable, being
a shade too fanciful for London in winter--but then, who cares how
people dress in London?

I don't I am sure. and especially so when they have such eyes as this boy's, dark and rich,
and such a curve to such lips.

There he stood,perfectly still, his steady gaze fixed on the opposite
lady,while she in her turn never wavered in her gaze upon him.

  The horridness I speak of does not attach
to him personally, but to his stiff, respectable, ungainly, well-behaved, irrational, and uncivilised
country.  You see I am not very patriotic."

"Not quite so much as my friend, Mr. Damer."

"Ha! ha! ha! an excellent creature, isn't he? The production of gangrenous sloughs generally resembles
the description of sloughing ulcers. When someone has a gangrenous slough, a portion of the parts
immediatel adjacent to the ulcer loose its life and a fresh slough form in the same manner.
Sloughs are generally black with ashy edges.

I have not been able to verify any change of color, the production of vesciles or any material
tumefaction. By the time it is removed, there is an increase in heat in the parts called "calor
mordens".

The first process is to extend the edges of the gums. When it reaches the edges of the bony
socket, the tooth begins to be loose and almost looks like fangs. From this you can see that the
latter membrane is the part most apt to be the cause off injury or death from disease in the
mouth. An injury like this usually proceeds with augmenting rapidly
especially when it has gotten to the deeper parts of the gums. While
it is spreading is when it will cause a gangrene. 

He continues: "Of the higher kind of ladyhood may habitually be said what Steele said of Lady Elizabeth
Hastings, 'that unaffected flexibility and attentive innocence provided her the attendance
of the graces in all her actions.' At its largest, ladyhood suggests a spirituality made manifest
in poetic grace. From the woman there exhales a subtle magnetism. Unconsciously she encircles
herself with an air of unruffled power, which, to those who arrive into it, devotes self-assurance
and repose. Within her leverage the diffident augment self-possessed, the impudent are checked, the
inconsiderate are admonished; even the impolite are guarded to be mannerly, and the perfected
are perfected; all spelled, unawares, by the flexible dignity, the
instructing gentleness, the methodical womanliness of her gaze, talk
and demeanor.

A sway is this, solely spiritual. Every sway, every legitimate, every enduring sway is spiritual;
a regnancy of lightweight over obscurity, of right over brutality. The only genuine profits
ever made are religious gains--a farther subjection of the whole to the incorporeal, of body
to soul, of the animal to the human. The finest and most attribute actions of a woman engage
a religious ascension, a increasing out of herself. In her being and bearing, endurance, generosity,
benignity are the graces that give form to the virtues of truthfulness."

Here

is the check of factual ladyhood. Whenever the juvenile find themselves in the business of those
who manage not make them seem at alleviate, they should understand that they are not in the
humanity of factual females and factual gentlemen, but of pretenders; that well-bred men and
women can only seem at dwelling in the humanity of the well-bred.

THE IMPORTANCE OF TRIFLES.

Some persons are wont to depreciate these kind and tender features as trifles; but trifles,
it should be recalled, make up the aggregate of human life. The petty incivilities, minor rudenesses
and neglects of which men are at fault, without considered, or from need of foresight or understanding,
are often recalled, while the large actions presented by the identical individuals are often
forgotten. There is no humanity where grins, pleasing examines and animal spirits are not met
and regarded of more significance than sallies of wit, or refinements
of understanding.

The two lads were riding races along the dusty path, much to the disgust of their donkey-boys. This
is the body language used by a few of the tribes: spread and curve the fingers of both hands,
hold them up above the thighs about two feet apart, then move them
toward each other in a horizontal motion, bringing them up as they
meet.

 For example, doubts "whether any society, and that of Sodom and Gomorrah"

[Paris is entirely too soft an example] "has been rather full of every kind of vice that of the
Yankees." Infanticide prevails, implying that more broadly in China. The Yankees continue to envy and
malice all the excellences that occurs between them without regard
to money, and a gentleman has no more possibility of the existence
of a dog in the Grotto del Cano ' 
The elegance and refinement of
the same publisher of the Whig, appears as follows.

One hand, we missed is too viciously against the modesty of the reprint:
'... Yankee women, skinny, bony and hard as the whip of cord, are
reproduced as Norway rats, and fill brothels all on the continent
.... But multiply - the only biblical injunction to obey - and have
their millions.

The same goes for the Chinese, so do Apisdæ, and all other animal pests. Pull the bark of a rotten
log and you will see a mass of worms full of vitality, constantly moving and eternal round,
tracking more than one, and another crawling under another, all exactly
alike, all closely involved to hunt for each other, and is an apt
illustration of the numbers of the Yankees, the equality of the Yankees,
and the greatness of the Yankees.

"We must bring these slaves UnFranchise - the Yankees - back to his true condition. That long, probably,
looked at themselves and our social inferiors - as our servants,
half-life, mean - under their vulgar, sordid and occupations, the
field is this belief in them.

But suddenly, they have imagined that their numerical strength gives them the power - and that
has burst the bonds of servitude, and are running riot over the brutal passion of a beast released.
His rise has all the characteristics of a fierce insurgency, fertile
.... They have suggested we invade their territory, and the theft
of their banks and jewelers.

It is possible that the benefits for the suggestion, so far of the invasion - to allow us to
restore to its normal condition of vassalage, and teach them cap in hand is the proper attitude
of a servant before his master.
These excerpts are from the Richmond Whig - a document beyond all
comparison, more respectable and acceptable in the whole South, and
in any case so little weight or character that their comments be passed
by as mere bravado boast of South and hopes that does not mean anything.

It speaks of the deep-seated belief and sincere conviction of the
secessionists even smarter - to the editor of the Whig is not just
one, but one of the most honest and straight men who are in Dixie.

"But," the reader may ask, "if the man really believes the Yankees are the servants, slaves, vassals
of the South, where the eyes, ears, and common sense?

With care, dear reader.

When we reflect on the subservience to the south by the Northern Democrats face mass in years past
- when we recall the abhorrent and unbelievable sycophancy with which everything has been
Hymned South, honored and exalted - as we remember the a vulgar,
arrogant, ignorant Southerners have worshiped in the face of mass
society where the knights were not worthy of waiting in the know it,
but secondary - when we think of shallow pettiness regrettable that
leads men's North to rant in favor of this "institution" that, at
least, knowledge is a curse for the country - where we see that even
now, how, with a meanness and wickedness beyond belief, "democratic"
editors follow lick the hand that hurts them, it is not surprising
that the southern, taking the side of a type of mass across the north,
characterized all the Yankees and as servants, crawlers servile hand
and make the beggars of patternsCini.

For if everyone were of democracy in favor of slavery, and especially
those who are still shouting for the rights of the South and ensure
grinningly patriots under the Constitution can not do anything to
the South ", which is rich deserve the scorn heaped on us by the 'cavalry'.

* * * * *
There is no doubt that during this bloody war, many incidents have occurred or will occur,
almost equal to that described in the following simple, but real
life ballad: 
Frank Wilson.

 

As to not make a fool of yourself, you went to Mrs. Grandcourt. However, since this morning you've
been making yourself look like a fool; and if you continue with this act, sooner or later you'll
be the talk of the clubs. You wouldn't like that, right. 

Nothing remained of the once noble four legged animal, which she called
JACK, the horse, had lost not only the ornamental mane and tail but
his head too, one fore and one hind leg; it appeared like a barrel
with the paint scratched off, which was insecurely mounted upon a
stand which had wheels.

In spite of this, he worked to the lost and proved that he was a faithful animal. I was usually
tied to his barrel by the baby, and Jack and I in my gilt coach with
its four prancing piebalds, were made to go round and round the kitchen
until our mistress was satisfied.

My enfeebled frame was affected, by the baby’s treatment of me,
where there was a roughness and want of ceremony, though gratifying
from its cordiality.

