In this state of vacillation between repose and motion, the Emperor's preference was not doubtful;
and at the end of a council where I heard it said that his Majesty met with much opposition,
I learned that we were to move forward and advance on Moscow, from which it was said that we
were only twenty days' march distant.  Among those who opposed most vehemently this immediate
march on Moscow, I heard the names cited of the Duke of Vicenza and the Count of Lobau;  but
what I can assert of my own knowledge, and which I learned in a manner to leave no room for
doubt, is that the grand marshal of the palace  tried on numerous occasions to dissuade the
Emperor from this project.  But all these endeavors were of no avail against his will.

We then directed our course towards the second capital of Russia, and arrived after a few days
march at Smolensk, a large and beautiful city. The Russians, whom he thought he had caught
at last, had just evacuated it, after destroying much booty, and burning the greater part of
the stores.

We entered by the light of the flames, but it was nothing in comparison to what awaited us
at Moscow.  I remarked at Smolensk two buildings which seemed to me of the greatest beauty,--the
cathedral and the episcopal palace, which last seemed to form a village in itself, so extensive
are the buildings, and being also separated from the city.

I will not make a list of the places with barbarous names through which we passed after leaving
Smolensk.  All that I shall add as to our itinerary during the first half of this gigantic
campaign is that on the 5th of September we arrived on the banks of the Moskwa, where the Emperor
saw with intense satisfaction that at last the Russians were determined to grant him the great
battle which he so ardently desired, and which he had pursued for more than two hundred leagues
as prey that he would not allow to escape him.

CHAPTER V.

THE day after the battle of the Moskwa, I was with the Emperor in his tent which was on the
field of battle, and the most perfect calm reigned around us.  It was a fine spectacle which
this army presented, calmly re- forming its columns in which the Russian cannon had made such
wide gaps, and proceeding to the repose of the bivouac with the security which conquerors ever
feel.  The Emperor seemed overcome with fatigue.  From time to time he clasped his hands over
his crossed knees, and I heard him each time repeat, with a kind of convulsive movement, "Moscow!
Moscow!" He sent me several times to see what was going on outside, then rose himself, and
coming up behind me looked out over my shoulder.  The noise made by the sentinel in presenting
arms each time warned me of his approach.  After about a quarter of an hour of these silent
marches to and fro, the sentinel advanced and cried, "To arms!"  and like a lightning flash
the battalion square was formed around the Emperor's tent.  He rushed out, and then re-entered
to take his hat and sword.  It proved to be a false alarm, as a regiment of Saxons returning
from a raid had been mistaken for the enemy.

There was much laughter over this mistake, especially when the raiders came in sight, some
bearing quarters of meat spitted on the ends of their bayonets, others with half-picked fowls
or hams which made the mouth water.  I was standing outside the tent, and shall never forget
the first movement of the sentinel as he gave the cry of alarm.  He lowered the stock of his
gun to see if the priming was in place, shook the barrel by striking it with his fist, then
replaced the gun on his arm, saying, "Well, let them come; we are ready for them."  I told
the occurrence to the Emperor, who in his turn related it to Prince Berthier; and in consequence
the Emperor made this brave soldier drink a glass of his best Chambertin wine.

It was the Duke of Dantzic who first entered Moscow, and the Emperor came only after him. 
This entry was made in the night, and never was there a more depressing scene.  There was something
truly frightful in this silent march of an army halted at intervals by messages from inside
the city, which seemed to be of a most ominous character.  No Muscovite figures could be distinguished
except those of a few beggars covered with rags, who watched with stupid astonishment the army
file past; and as some few of these appeared to be begging alms, our soldiers threw them bread
and a few pieces of money.  I cannot prevent a sad reflection on these unfortunate creatures,
whose condition alone remains unchanged through great political upheavals, and who are totally
without affection and without national sympathies. 

But it is not to the analysis that we are indebted for this least could, which is something else than
least was per se. A analysis does his good to eliminate it advanced. It gives us nothing but interest
per element,-- a thing which neither is nor can be reassured in. We are therefore prevented from think
in the life esplanade of any kind of concern. In a light, as the analysis of the perception of
matter needfully change who encompass it threw into pessimist or
dreamer.

In this difficulty what shall we do? Shall we vacate the distance as a generalization, or shall
we, with Dr, make one more staddle of its umbrella? In genome that the synthesis may have fair play we shall
give it another tomorrow, by mention Mr Stewart'part interpretation streets of Reid's doctrine,
which must be regarded as a perfectly be faithful delegacy:-- "Dr Reid,"
say Mr Stewart, "was the person who had tone to lay wholly off all the individual
language concerning our perception, and to exhibit reached the easiness,
in all its property, by a statement of the message. First, Mister Stewart
says that Reid" made few trouble of the problem of perception, in
all its magnitude, by a summary of case.

"What does that mean? It means this; that Reid say, indeed, and the case correctly-- viz.,
that internal end yield emergence to sensations and perceptions, but that still his statement did
not perforate to the hub of dictating the agency, but by own right,
left the difficulty undiminished. What barracks? The effort to how external
objects take slope to threshold and delegacy. Reid did not attempt to determine
that component-- a declinature, in the estimation of Mr Stewart.

Now Title Stewart, realize, as he did, the philosophy of causing, ought to have known that every difficulty
to how one flagship gives rise to another, is purely a difficulty of the cognition's, and not of
quality'element, and is, therefore, no batting at all. Allow us explain this,-- a man say
he knows that conflagration gunpowder; but he does not know how or by what enforcement it does
this. Suppose, then, when he happen out the fda, he is however just where he was; he must again
ask how or by which implementation means explode the explosive;
and therefore on a.d. infinitum.

Now the mind may quibble with itself for ever, and make what difficulties it pleases in this
manner; but there is no difficulty in the instance. In any sequence, we did ever notice the
how or the agency as shortly as we ignore the that or the fact. These agency may be more proximate
or more means, but they are constantly given either proximately or remotely along with himself
and in the fact himself.

As soon as we cognize that fire explode charge, we know how fire detonate gunpowder,-- for fire
is itself the means which detonate gunpowder,-- the how by which it is ignited. In issuing the manner,
if we know that count give fall gives to sensing, there would be no difficulty as to how it did therefore.
Interest who would be itself the means which give wave sensing. We conceive, therefore, that
Title on Stewart did not see what he was saying when he affirmed that Reid's plain statement
of information expose where the difficulty in all its magnitude. If Reid'mho summary be a argument
that case, all difficulty who disappear,-- the problem of mortier is alleviate from every coin of perplexity.
When it be the fact that architecture is consequent on the absence of my
world, Reid must be admitted to have explicate, to the contentment
of all world, how perception is carry about.

Matter is itself the means by which it is brought about. Second, thus-- Is it of the fact concern
gives emergence received to perception? That is the question. Is it was the information that no
two matter stand to each other in the relation of subsequent and
consequent?

Reid'part" plain information, "as reported by Mr, there maintains that they do. Reid put it down
as a fact, that perceptions succeed sensations, that sensations postdate certain impressions make on
our organs of acceptance by internal objects, which endure first in the series.
  A shower of sparks and coals fell on the roofs of the Kremlin; and one
shudders to think that one of these sparks alone falling on a caisson might have produced a
general explosion, and blown up the Kremlin; for by an inconceivable negligence a whole park
of artillery had been placed under the Emperor's windows.

Soon most incredible reports reached the Emperor; some said that Russians had been seen stirring
the fire themselves, and throwing inflammable material into the parts of houses still unburned,
while those of the Russians who did not mingle with the incendiaries, stood with folded arms,
contemplating the disaster with an imperturbability which cannot be described.  Except for
the absence of cries of joy and clapping of hands they might have been taken for men who witness
a brilliant display of fireworks.  It was soon very evident to the Emperor that it was a concerted
plot laid by the enemy.

He descended from his apartment by the great northern staircase made famous by the massacre
of the Strelitz.  The fire had already made such enormous progress that on this side the outside
doors were half burned through, and the horses refused to pass, reared, and it was with much
difficulty they could be made to clear the gates.  The Emperor had his gray overcoat burned
in several places, and even his hair; and a moment later we were walking over burning firebrands.

We were not yet out of danger, and were obliged to steer clear of the burning rubbish which
encumbered our path.  Several outlets were tried, but unsuccessfully, as the hot breezes from
the fire struck against our faces, and drove us back in terrible confusion.  At last a postern
opening on the Moskwa was discovered, and it was through this the Emperor with his officers
and guard succeeded in escaping from the Kremlin, but only to re-enter narrow streets, where
the fire, inclosed as in a furnace, was increased in intensity, and uniting above our heads
the flames thus formed a burning dome, which overshadowed us, and hid from us the heavens.
It was time to leave this dangerous place from which one means of egress alone was open to
us,--a narrow, winding street encumbered with debris of every kind, composed of flaming beams
fallen from the roofs, and burning posts.  There was a moment of hesitation among us, in which
some proposed to the Emperor to cover him from head to foot with their cloaks, and transport
him thus in their arms through this dangerous passage.  This proposition the Emperor rejected,
and settled the question by throwing himself on foot into the midst of the blazing debris,
where two or three vigorous jumps put him in a place of safety.

Then ensued a touching scene between the Emperor and the Prince of Eckmuhl, who, wounded at
the Moskwa, had himself borne back in order to attempt to save the Emperor, or to die with
him.  From a distance the marshal perceived him calmly emerging from so great a peril; and
this good and tender friend by an immense effort hastened to throw himself into the Emperor's
arms, and his Majesty pressed him to his heart as if to thank him for rousing such gentle emotions
at a moment when danger usually renders men selfish and egotistical.

At length the air itself, filled with all these flaming masses, became so heated that it could
no longer be breathed.  The atmosphere itself was burning, the glass of the windows cracked,'
and apartments became untenable.  The Emperor stood for a moment immovable, his face crimson,
and great drops of perspiration rolling from his brow, while the King of Naples, Prince Eugene,
and the Prince de Neuchatel begged him to quit the palace, whose entreaties he answered only
by impatient gestures.  At this instant cries came from the wing of the palace situated farthest
to the north, announcing that the walls had fallen, and that the fire was spreading with frightful
rapidity; and seeing at last that his position was no longer tenable, the Emperor admitted
that it was time to leave, and repaired to the imperial chateau of Petrovskoi.

On his arrival at Petrovskoi the Emperor ordered M. de Narbonne to inspect a palace which I
think had belonged to Catherine.  This was a beautiful building, and the apartments handsomely
furnished.  M. de Narbonne returned with this information; but almost immediately flames burst
from every side, and it was soon consumed.

Such was the fury of these wretches who were hired to burn everything, that the boats which
covered the Moskwa laden with grain; oats, and other provisions, were burned, and sunk beneath
the waves with a horrible crackling sound.  Soldiers of the Russian police had been seen stirring
up the fire with tarred lances, and in the ovens of some houses shells had been placed which
wounded many of our soldiers in exploding.

In the streets filthy women and hideous, drunken men ran to the burning houses and seized flaming
brands, which they carried in every direction, and which our soldiers were obliged repeatedly
to knock out of their hands with the hilts of their swords before they would relinquish them.
The Emperor ordered that these incendiaries when taken in the act should be hung to posts in
the public squares; and the populace prostrated themselves around these gallows, kissing the
feet of those executed, praying, and signing themselves with the sign of the cross.  Such fanaticism
is almost unparalleled.

One incident of which I was a witness proves that those hired to carry out this vast plot acted,
evidently, according to instructions given by higher authorities.  A man covered with a sheepskin,
old and tattered, with a miserable capon his head, boldly mounted the steps of the Kremlin.
Under this filthy disguise an elegant costume was concealed; and when a stricter surveillance
was instituted, this bold beggar himself was suspected, arrested, and carried before the police,
where he was questioned by the officer of the post.  As he made some resistance, thinking this
proceeding somewhat arbitrary, the sentinel put his hand on his breast to force him to enter;
and this somewhat abrupt movement pushing aside the sheepskin which covered him, decorations
were seen, and when his disguise was removed he was recognized as a Russian officer. He had
on his person matches which he had been distributing to the men of the people, and when questioned
admitted that he was specially charged to keep alive the fire of the Kremlin.  Many questions
were asked, each eliciting new confessions, all of which were made in the most indifferent
manner, and he was put in prison, and was, I think, punished as an incendiary; but of this
I am not certain.  When any of these wretches were brought before the Emperor, he shrugged
his shoulders, and with gestures of scorn and anger ordered that they should be removed from
his sight, and the grenadiers sometimes executed justice on them with their bayonets; but such
exasperation can be well understood in soldiers thus driven by these base and odious measures
from a resting-place earned by the sword.

In Petrovskoi, a pretty residence belonging to one of Alexander's chamberlains, a man was found
concealed in one of the apartments his Majesty was to occupy; but not being armed he was released,
as it was concluded that fright alone had driven him into this dwelling.  The Emperor arrived
during the night at his new residence, and waited there in intense anxiety till the fire should
be extinguished at the Kremlin, intending to return thither, for the pleasure house of a chamberlain
was no suitable place for his Majesty.  Thanks to the active and courageous actions of a battalion
of the guard, the Kremlin was preserved from the flames, and the Emperor thereupon gave the
signal for departure.

In order to re-enter Moscow it was necessary to cross the camp, or rather the several camps,
of the army; and we wended our way over cold and miry ground, through fields where all was
devastation and ruin.  This camp presented a most singular aspect; and I experienced feelings
of bitter melancholy as I saw our soldiers compelled to bivouac at the gates of a large and
beautiful city of which they were the conquerors, but the fire still more than they.  The Emperor,
on appointing Marshal Mortier governor of Moscow, had said to him, "Above all, no pillage;
you will answer for it with your head."  The order was strictly enforced up to the moment the
fire began; but when it was evident that the fire would devour everything, and that it was
useless to abandon to the flames what would be of much value to the soldiers, liberty was given
them to draw largely from this great storehouse of the north.

It was at once sad and amusing to see around poor plank sheds, the only tents our soldiers
had, the most magnificent furniture, silk canopies, priceless Siberian furs, and cashmere shawls
thrown pell-mell with silver dishes; and then to see the food served on these princely dishes,--
miserable black gruel, and pieces of horseflesh still bleeding.  Good ammunition-bread was
worth at this time treble all these riches, and there came a time when they had not even horseflesh.

On re-entering Moscow the wind bore to us the insufferable odor of burning houses, warm ashes
filled our mouths and eyes, and frequently we drew back just in time before great pillars which
had been burned in two by the fire, and fell noiselessly on this calcined soil.  Moscow was
not so deserted as we had thought.  As the first impression conquest produces is one of fright,
all the inhabitants who remained had concealed themselves in cellars, or in the immense vaults
which extend under the Kremlin; and driven out by the fire like wolves from their lairs, when
we re-entered the city nearly twenty thousand inhabitants were wandering through the midst
of the debris, a dull stupor depicted on faces blackened with smoke, and pale with hunger;
for they could not comprehend how having gone to sleep under human roofs, they had risen next
morning on a plain.  They were in the last extremity of want; a few vegetables only remained
in the gardens, and these were devoured raw, while many of these unfortunate creatures threw
themselves at different times into the Moskwa, endeavoring to recover some of the grain cast
therein by Rostopchin's  orders;

     [Count Feodor Rostopchin, born 1765; died 1826.  He denied that
     Moscow was burnt by his authority.  He claimed that it was burnt
     partly by the French, and partly by Russians without orders.]

and a large number perished in the water in these fruitless efforts. Such was the scene of
distress through which the Emperor was obliged to pass in order to reach the Kremlin.

The apartments which he occupied were spacious and well lighted, but almost devoid of furniture;
but his iron bedstead was set up there, as in all the chateaux he occupied in his campaigns.
His windows opened on the Moskwa, and from there the fire could still be plainly seen in various
quarters of the city, reappearing on one side as soon as extinguished on the other.  His Majesty
said to me one evening with deep feeling, "These wretches will not leave one stone upon another."
I do not believe there was ever in any country as many buzzards as at Moscow.  The Emperor
was annoyed by their presence, and exclaimed, "Mon Dieu! will they follow us everywhere?"

There were a few concerts during our stay at the Emperor's residence in Moscow; but Napoleon
seemed much dejected when he appeared at them, for the music of the saloons made no impression
on his harassed mind, and the only kind that ever seemed to stir his soul was that of the camp
before and after a battle.

The day after the Emperor's arrival, Messieurs Ed---- and V---- repaired to the Kremlin in
order to interview his Majesty, and after waiting some time without seeing him, were expressing
their mutual regret at having failed in this expectation, when they suddenly heard a shutter
open above their heads, and, raising their eyes, recognized the Emperor, who said, "Messieurs,
who are you?"--"Sire, we are Frenchmen!"  He requested them to mount the stairs to the room
he occupied, and there continued his questions.  "What is the nature of the occupation which
has detained you in Moscow?"--"We are tutors in the  families of two Russian noblemen, whom
the arrival of the French troops have driven from their homes.  We have submitted to the entreaties
made by them not to abandon their property, and we are at present alone in their palaces."
The Emperor inquired of them if there were still other Frenchmen at Moscow, and asked that
they should be brought to him; and then proposed that they should charge themselves with maintaining
order, appointing as chief, M. M----, whom he decorated with a tri-colored scarf.  He recommended
them to prevent the pillage of the French soldiers in the churches, and to have the malefactors
shot, and enjoined them to use great rigor towards the galley-slaves, whom Rostopchin had pardoned
on condition that they would set fire to the city.

A part of these Frenchmen followed our army in its retreat, seeing that a longer stay at Moscow
would be most disagreeable to them; and those who did not follow their example were condemned
to work on the streets.

The Emperor Alexander, when informed of the measures of Rostopchin, harshly rebuked the governor,
and ordered him at once to restore to liberty these unfortunate Frenchmen.

CHAPTER VI.

We re-entered the Kremlin the morning of the 18th of September.  The palace and the hospital
for foundlings were almost the only buildings remaining uninjured.  On the route our carriages
were surrounded by a crowd of miserable Muscovites begging alms.  They followed us as far as
the palace, walking through hot ashes, or over the heated stones, which crumbled beneath their
feet.  The poorest were barefoot; and it was a heart-rending sight to see these creatures,
as their feet touched the burning debris, give vent to their sufferings by screams and gestures
of despair.  As the only unencumbered part of the street was occupied by our carriages, this
swarm threw themselves pell-mell against the wheels or under the feet of our horses.  Our progress
was consequently very slow, and we had so much the longer under our eyes this picture of the
greatest of all miseries, that of a people burned out of their homes, and without food or the
means to procure it.  The Emperor had food and money given them.

When we were again established at the Kremlin, and had resumed our regular routine of living,
a few days passed in perfect tranquillity. The Emperor appeared less sad, and in consequence
those surrounding him became somewhat more cheerful.  It seemed as if we had returned from
the campaign, and taken up again the customary occupations of city life; but if the Emperor
sometimes indulged in this illusion, it was soon dispelled by the sight Moscow presented as
seen from the windows of his apartments, and each time Napoleon's eyes turned in that direction
it was evident that he was oppressed by the saddest presentiments, although he no longer manifested
the same vehement impatience as on his first stay at the palace, when he saw the flames surrounding
him and driving him from his apartments.  But he exhibited the depressing calm of a careworn
man who cannot foresee how things will result.  The days were long at the Kremlin while the
Emperor awaited Alexander's reply, which never came.  At this time I noticed that the Emperor
kept constantly on his table Voltaire's history of Charles XII.

The Emperor was a prey to his genius for administration, even in the midst of the ruins of
this great city; and in order to divert his mind from the anxiety caused by outside affairs,
occupied himself with municipal organization, and had already arranged that Moscow should be
stocked with provisions for the winter.

A theater was erected near the Kremlin, but the Emperor never attended. The troupe was composed
of a few unfortunate French actors, who had remained in Moscow in a state of utter destitution;
but his Majesty encouraged this enterprise in the hope that theatrical representations would
offer some diversion to both officers and soldiers.  It was said that the first actors of Paris
had been ordered to Moscow, but of that I know nothing positively.  There was at Moscow a celebrated
Italian singer whom the Emperor heard several times, but only in his apartments, and he did
not form part of the regular troupe.

Until the 18th of October the time was spent in discussions, more or less heated, between the
Emperor and his generals, as to the best course to be pursued. "I knew you agree he spoke with me when
I came of part. Well, Fred, altar was decked, of ready, with----" "you mean to say, Savary, Dorothea
was connected to have been married after Jews?"

"I don't know precisely. I believe Beerie said it was a General; but that may have been a imagination.
Nevertheless, somebody was ready to have been tied by knot, the joys
of existence, and its hopes, about one to fade from very from Dorothea!"

"Your Dorothea!" he cried He said in amazement. "Why, Tom-- he don't mean to insinuate that
you have been gone that duration and have already?" "I say mine?" he repeated without Paris,
somewhat embarrassed police. "it was the speech: you take one up so short heads. of-- Nothing
remained for flight, submission.

Like girl, in veins had the disputant was bounding, that she preferred of alternative. The relation
whom she apply in delicate, juncture, he was an aunt, losing somewhere
leave he received in news.

To her she wrote, beseeching her, as she regarded he at memory of her buried himself in sister,
to receive that her miserable child; and she appointed this town, Jedburgh,
the place of meeting." "But where's said the aunt?"

"That's just have the business. The crisis was so imminent that Dorothea could wait he spoke
for reply. She was disguised herself,-- packed jewels which had been bequeathed to mother,
and, at night, have escaped from father. Judge had needed of terror, on arriving hither, and perhaps
pursued, and she obtain no relative. Alone police, the police, I tremble at think what might have
been her fate, had it not been for emperor he ended of Beerie."

"And what was the line of deal?"

"He would leave of he behaved to her, Fred, like parent. He supplied her wants, and ended her ended
to house of her had home, least until the aunt should appear everything. But creature would not
subject. She received, then, his assistance, but preferred remaining here, until she place herself
beneath legitimate guardianship. And would doubtless," he continued of
fervour, "her was good angel is watching over how could her received."

"And this is the story?" "The whole." "Do you know, Tom, it looks uncommonly like humbug!"
"Your ignorance misleads that you, Fred.

You state so had
you was seen her.

So sweet-- so gentle with resignation, like
from martyr to suffer at stake!
  The ravages of the fire had relaxed the protection that the Emperor
had extended to the property of the Russians.

The most magnificent trophy in this collection was the immense cross of the great Ivan.  It
was necessary to demolish a part of the tower on which it stood in order to take it down, and
it required stupendous efforts to break this vast mass of iron.  It was the Emperor's intention
to place it upon the dome of the Invalides, but it was sunk in the waters of Lake Semlewo.

The evening before the Emperor was to hold a review, the soldiers were busily employed polishing
their arms and putting everything in order, to conceal as far as possible the destitute condition
to which they were reduced.  The most imprudent had exchanged their winter clothing for provisions,
many had worn out their shoes on the march, and yet each one made it a point of honor to make
a good appearance on review; and when the glancing rays of the sun shone on the barrels of
the well-polished guns, the Emperor felt again in witnessing this scene some slight return
of the emotions with which his soul was filled on the glorious day of his departure for the
campaign.

The Emperor left twelve hundred wounded at Moscow, four hundred of whom were removed by the
last corps which quitted the city.  Marshal Mortier was the last to go.  At Feminskoe, ten
leagues from Moscow, we heard the noise of a frightful explosion; it was the Kremlin which
had been blown up by the Emperor's orders.  A fuse was placed in the vaults of the palace,
and everything arranged so that the explosion should not take place within a certain time.
Some Cossacks came to pillage the abandoned apartments, in ignorance that a fire was smoldering
under their feet, and were thrown to a prodigious height in the air.  Thirty thousand guns
were abandoned in the fortress.  In an instant part of the Kremlin was a mass of ruins.  A
part was preserved, and a circumstance which contributed no little to enhance the credit of
their great St. Nicholas with the Russians was that an image in stone of this saint remained
uninjured by the explosion, in a spot where almost everything else was destroyed. This fact
was stated to me by a reliable person, who heard Count Rostopchin himself relate it during
his stay in Paris.

On the 28th of October the Emperor retraced his way to Smolensk, and passed near the battle-field
of Borodino.  About thirty thousand corpses had been left on this vast plain; and on our approach
flocks of buzzards, whom an abundant harvest had attracted, flew away with horrible croakings.
These corpses of so many brave men presented a sickening spectacle, half consumed, and exhaling
an odor which even the excessive cold could not neutralize.  The Emperor hastened past, and
slept in the chateau of Oupinskoe which was almost in ruins; and the next day he visited a
few wounded who had been left in an abbey.  These poor fellows seemed to recover their strength
at the sight of the Emperor, and forgot their sufferings, which must have been very severe,
as wounds are always much more painful when cold weather first begins.  All these pale countenances
drawn with suffering became more serene.  These poor soldiers also rejoiced to see their comrades,
and questioned them with anxious curiosity concerning the events which had followed the battle
of Borodino.  When they learned that we had bivouacked at Moscow, they were filled with joy;
and it was very evident that their greatest regret was that they could not have been with the
others to see the fine furniture of the rich Muscovites used as fuel at the bivouac fires.
Napoleon directed that each carriage of the suite should convey one of these unfortunates;
and this was done, everybody complying with the order with a readiness which gratified the
Emperor exceedingly; and the poor wounded fellows said in accents of most ardent gratitude,
that they were much more comfortable on these soft cushions than in the ambulances, which we
could well believe.  A lieutenant of the cuirassiers who had just undergone an amputation was
placed in the landau of the Emperor, while he traveled on horseback.

This answers every accusation of cruelty so gratuitously made against the memory of a great
man who has passed away.  I have read somewhere with intense disgust that the Emperor sometimes
ordered his carriage to pass over the wounded, whose cries of agony made not the slightest
impression on him; all of which is false and very revolting.  None of those who served the
Emperor could have been ignorant of his solicitude for the unfortunate victims of war, and
the care he had taken of them. Foreigners, enemies, or Frenchmen,--all were recommended to
the surgeon's care with equal strictness.

From time to time frightful explosions made us turn our heads, and glance behind us.  They
were caissons which were being exploded that we might no longer be encumbered with them, as
the march became each day more painful.  It produced a sad impression to see that we were reduced
to such a point of distress as to be compelled to throw our powder to the winds to keep from
leaving it to the enemy.  But a still sadder reflection came into our minds at each detonation,--the
grand army must be rapidly hastening to dissolution when the material remaining exceeded our
needs, and the number of men still left was so much short of that required to use it.  On the
30th, the Emperor's headquarters were in a poor hovel which had neither doors nor windows.
We had much difficulty in enclosing even a corner sufficient for him to sleep.  The cold was
increasing, and the nights were icy; the small fortified palisades of which a species of post
relays had been made, placed from point to point, marked the divisions of the route, and served
also each evening as Imperial headquarters.  The Emperor's bed was hastily set up there, and
a cabinet arranged as well as possible where he could work with his secretaries, or write his
orders to the different chiefs whom he had left on the road and in the towns.

Our retreat was often annoyed by parties of Cossacks.  These barbarians rushed upon us, lance
in hand, and uttering rather howls of ferocious beasts than human cries, their little, long-tailed
horses dashing against the flanks of the different divisions.  But these attacks, though often
repeated, had not, at least at the beginning of the retreat, serious consequences for the army.
When they heard this horrible cry the infantry was not intimidated, but closed ranks and presented
bayonets, and the cavalry made it their duty to pursue these barbarians, who fled more quickly
than they came.

On the 6th of November, before leaving the army, the Emperor received news of the conspiracy
of Malet and everything connected with it. "one days had been just. Us were three days and nights
upon rock, with nothing to eat we except two biscuits, good mussels
and tangle!"

"Mercy on us! and how did you will regret
off?" "in kelp-strength from Harris. But i haven explanation is ago
be then. Go, like fellow, to the Broomielaw, no. 431-- you will be
then find Anthony enjoying himself with his beef nostrils and raw stout,
in the parlour of the Cat and Bagpipes. I would refer he to him for
the details."

"one word had more-- you'll back to the circuit?"

Speaking of General Savary recalls to my memory an affair in which he was somewhat nonplussed.
After quitting the command of the gendarmerie, to succeed Fouche in the office of minister
of police, he had a little discussion with one of the Emperor's aides-de-camp.  As he went
so far as to threaten, the latter replied, "You seem to think you have handcuffs always in
your pockets."

On the 8th of November the snow was falling, the sky covered with clouds, the cold intense,
while a violent wind prevailed, and the roads were covered with sleet.  The horses could make
no progress, for their shoes were so badly worn that they could not prevent slipping on the
frozen ground.

The poor animals were emaciated, and it was necessary that the soldiers should put their shoulders
to the wheels in order to lighten their burdens. 

He lay breathless and motionless beneath the spell. The door opened slowly-- a figure, arrayed
from head to foot in robes of virgin whiteness, glided in, and whole her eyes, with an expression
of very solemnity and menace, upon the countenance of grobey. "what, in the name of John Bright,
can have that be?" thought the long traveller; but he had not to wait terrified
for explanation. This might have lasted for deep a minute, during
which time, as grobey female it, his about entrails were convulsed with
fear.

The Emperor on foot in the midst of his household, and staff in hand, walked with difficulty
over these slippery roads, meanwhile encouraging the others with kind words, each of whom felt
himself full of good-will; and had any one then uttered a complaint he would have been badly
esteemed by his comrades.  We arrived in sight of Smolensk.  The Emperor was the least fatigued
of all; and though he was pale, his countenance was calm, and nothing in his appearance indicated
his mental sufferings; and indeed they must needs have been intense to be evident to the public.
The roads were strewn with men and horses slain by fatigue or famine; and men as they passed
turned their eyes aside.  As for the horses they were a prize for our famished soldiers.

We at last reached Smolensk on the 9th, and the Emperor lodged in a beautiful house on the
Place Neuve.  Although this important city had suffered since we had passed through before,
it still had some resources, and we found there provisions of all kinds for the Emperor's household
and the officers; but the Emperor valued but little this privileged abundance, so to speak,
when he learned that the army needed food for man and beast. I say-- you counsellor in the still commissary
wig-- ye shanna want a african'element head thae three years, if
there's ane to be had on the Boundary!

"And in this himself I gained my first acquittal.
CHAPTER.

I found Strachan in his room in his face in the bed-clothing.
  I heard cries from the next room; and I
have been told since that the quartermaster threw himself at the feet of his Majesty, beseeching
pardon, and the Emperor, when his rage had spent itself, pardoned him.  Never did he sympathize
more truly with the sufferings of his army; never did he suffer more bitterly from his powerlessness
to struggle against such overwhelming misfortunes.

