Raising the heavy bait in the air, he would give it a whirl to gather headway and launch it
forty feet away with a splash that might have been heard thirty rods. It looked more likely
to scare than catch, but was a success. At the third or fourth cast we plainly saw a huge pickerel
rise, shut his immense mouth over bait, hooks and a few inches of chain, turn lazily and head
for the bottom, where Mr. D. let him rest a minute, and then struck steadily but strongly.
The subsequent struggle depended largely on main strength, though there was a good deal of
skill and cool judgment shown in the handling and landing of the fish. A pickerel of forty
pounds or more is not to be snatched out of the water on his first mad rush: something must
be yielded--and with no reel there is little chance of giving line. It struck me my friend
managed his fish remarkably well, towing him back and forth with a strong pull, never giving
him a rest and finally sliding him out on a low muddy bank, as though he were a smooth log.
We took him up to the house and tested the size of his mouth by putting a quart cup in it,
which went in easily. Then we weighed him and he turned the scales at forty-four pounds. It
was some consolation to find three of my hooks sticking in his mouth. Lastly, we had a large
section of him stuffed and baked. It was good; but a ten-pound fish would have been better,
The moral of all this--if it has any moral--is, use hooks according to the size of fish you
expect to catch.

And, when you are in a permanent camp, and fishing is very poor, try frogging. It is not a
sport of a high order, though it may be called angling--and it can be made amusing, with hook
and line. I have seen educated ladies in the wilderness, fishing for frogs with all eagerness
and enthusiasm not surpassed by the most devoted angler with his favorite cast of flies.

There are several modes of taking the festive batrachian. He is speared with a frog-spear;
caught under the chin with snatch-hooks; taken with hook and line, or picked up from a canoe
with the aid of a headlight, or jack-lamp. The two latter modes are best.

To take him with hook and line: a light rod, six to eight feet of line, a snell of single gut
with a 1-0 Sproat or O'Shaughnessy hook and a bit of bright scarlet flannel for bait; this
is the rig. To use it, paddle up behind him silently and drop the rag just in front of his
nose. He is pretty certain to take it on the instant. Knock him on the head before cutting
off his legs. It is unpleasant to see him squirm and hear him cry like a child while you are
sawing at his thigh joints.

By far the most effective manner of frogging is by the headlight on dark nights. To do this
most successfully, one man in a light canoe, a good headlight and a light, one-handed paddle
are the requirements. The frog is easily located, either by his croaking, or by his peculiar
shape. Paddle up to him silently and throw the light in his eyes; you may then pick him up
as you would a potato. I have known a North Woods guide to pick up a five-quart pail of frogs
in an hour, on a dark evening. On the table, frogs' legs are usually conceded first place for
delicacy and flavor, For an appetizing breakfast in camp, they have no equal, in my judgment.
The high price they bring at the best hotels, and their growing scarcity, attest the value
placed on them by men who know how and what to eat. And, not many years ago, an old pork-gobbling
backwoodsman threw his frying pan into the river because I had cooked frogs' legs in it. While
another, equally intelligent, refused to use my frying pan, because I had cooked eels in it;
remarking sententiously, "Eels is snakes, an' I know it."

It may be well, just here and now, to say a word on the importance of the headlight. I know
of no more pleasant and satisfactory adjunct of a camp than a good light that can be adjusted
to the head, used as a jack in floating, carried in the hand, or fastened up inside the shanty.
Once fairly tried, it will never be ignored or forgotten. Not that it will show a deer's head
seventeen rods distant with sufficient clearness for a shot--or your sights with distinctness
enough to make it. (See Murray's Adirondacks, page 174.)

A headlight that will show a deer plainly at six rods, while lighting the sights of a rifle
with clearness, is an exceptionally good light. More deer are killed in floating under than
over four rods. There are various styles of headlights, jack-lamps, etc. in use. They are bright,
easily adjusted and will show rifle sights, or a deer, up to 100 feet--which is enough. They
are also convenient in camp and better than a lantern on a dim forest path.

Before leaving the subject of bait-fishing, I have a point or two I wish to make. I have attempted
to explain the frog-bait and the manner of using it, and I shall probably never have occasion
to change my belief that it is, all the whole, the most killing lure for the entire tribes
of bass and pickerel. There is however, another, which, if properly handled, is almost as good.
It is as follows:

Take a bass, pickerel, or yellow perch, of one pound or less; scrape the scales clean on the
under side from the caudal fin to a point just forward of the vent.

Next, with a sharp knife, cut up toward the backbone, commencing just behind the vent with
a slant toward the tail. Run the knife smoothly along just under the backbone and out through
the caudal fin, taking about one-third of the latter and making a clean, white bait, with the
anal and part of the caudal by way of fins. It looks very like a white minnow in the water;
but is better, in that it is more showy and infinitely tougher. A minnow soon drags to pieces.
To use it, two strong hooks are tied on a wire snell at right angles, the upper one an inch
above the lower, and the upper hook is passed through the bait, leaving it to draw without
turning or spinning. The casting and handling is the same as with the frog-bait and is very
killing for bass, pickerel and mascalonge, It is a good lure for salmon trout also; but, for
him it was found better to fasten the bait with the lower hook in a way to give it a spinning
motion; and this necessitates the use of a swivel, which I do not like; because, "a rope is
as strong as its weakest part"; and I have more than once found that weakest part the swivel.
If, however, a swivel has been tested by a dead lift of twenty to twenty-five pounds, it will
do to trust.

I have spoken only of brass or copper wire for snells, and for pickerel or mascalonge of large
size nothing else is to be depended on. But for trout and bass; strong gut or gimp is safe
enough. The possibilities as to size of the mascalonge and Northern pickerel no man knows.
Frank Forester thinks it probable that the former attains to the weight of sixty to eighty
pounds, while he only accords the pickerel a weight of seventeen to eighteen pounds. I have
seen several pickerel of over forty pounds and one that turned the scale at fifty-three. And
I saw a mascalonge on Georgian Bay that was longer than the Canuck guide who was toting the
fish over his shoulder by a stick thrust in the mouth and gills. The snout reached to the top
of the guide's head, while the caudal fin dragged on the ground. There was no chance for weighing
the fish, but I hefted him several times, carefully, and am certain he weighed more than a
bushel of wheat. Just what tackle would be proper for such a powerful fellow I am not prepared
to say, having lost the largest specimens I ever hooked. My best mascalonge weighed less than
twenty pounds. My largest pickerel still less.

I will close this discursive chapter by offering a bit of advice.

Do not go into the woods on a fishing tour without a stock of well cleansed angle-worms. Keep
them in a tin can partly filled with damp moss and in a cool moist place. There is no one variety
of bait that the angler finds so constantly useful as the worm. Izaak Walton by no means despised
worm or bait-fishing.

CHAPTER VI Camp Cookery--How It Is Usually Done, With A Few Simple Hints On Plain Cooking--Cooking
Fire And Outdoor Range

THE way in which an average party of summer outers will contrive to manage--or mismanage--the
camp and campfire so as to get the greatest amount of smoke and discontent at the least outlay
of time and force, is something past all understanding and somewhat aggravating to an old woodsman
who knows some better. But it is just as good fun as the cynical O.W. can ask, to see a party
of three or four enthusiastic youngsters organize the camp on the first day in, and proceed
to cook the first meal. Of course, every man is boss, and every one is bound to build the fire,
which every one proceeds to do. There are no back logs, no fore sticks, and no arrangement
for level solid bases on which to place frying pans, coffee pots, etc. But, there is a sufficiency
of knots, dry sticks, bark and chunks, with some kindling at the bottom, and a heavy volume
of smoke working its way through the awkward-looking pile. Presently thin tongues of blue flame
begin to shoot up through the interstices, and four brand new coffee pots are wriggled into
level positions at as many different points on the bonfire. Four hungry youngsters commence
slicing ham and pork, four frying pans are brought out from as many hinged and lidded soap
boxes--when one man yells out hurriedly, "Look out, Joe, there's your coffee pot handle coming
off." And he drops his frying pan to save his coffee pot, which he does, minus the spout and
handle. Then it is seen that the flames have increased rapidly, and all the pots are in danger.
A short, sharp skirmish rescues them, at the expense of some burned fingers, and culinary operations
are the order of the hour.

Coffee and tea are brewed with the loss of a handle or two, and the frying pans succeed in
scorching the pork and ham to an unwholesome black mess. The potato kettle does better. It
is not easy to spoil potatoes by cooking them in plenty of boiling water; and, as there is
plenty of bread with fresh butter, not to mention canned goods, the hungry party feed sufficiently,
but not satisfactorily. Everything seems pervaded with smoke. The meat is scorched bitter,
and the tea is of the sort described by Charles Dudley Warner, in his humorous description
of "camping out": "The sort of tea that takes hold, lifts the hair, and disposes the drinker
to hilariousness. There is no deception about it, it tastes of tannin, and spruce, and creosote."
Of the cooking he says: "Everything has been cooked in a tin pail and a skillet--potatoes,
tea, pork, mutton, slapjacks. You wonder how everything would have been prepared in so few
utensils. When you eat, the wonder ceases, everything might have been cooked in one pail. It
is a noble meal...The slapjacks are a solid job of work, made to last, and not go to pieces
in a person's stomach like a trivial bun."

I have before me a copy of Forest and Stream, in which the canoe editor, under the heading
of "The Galley Fire," has some remarks well worth quoting. He says: "The question of camp cookery
is one of the greatest importance to all readers of Forest and Stream, but most of all to the
canoeists. From ignorance of what to carry the canoeist falls back on canned goods, never healthy
as a steady diet, Brunswick soup and eggs...The misery of that first campfire, who has forgotten
it? Tired, hungry, perhaps cold and wet, the smoke everywhere, the coffee pot melted down,
the can of soup upset in the fire, the fiendish conduct of frying pan and kettle, the final
surrender of the exhausted victim, sliding off to sleep with a piece of hardtack in one hand
and a slice of canned beef in the other, only to dream of mother's hot biscuits, juicy steaks,
etc., etc." It is very well put, and so true to the life. And again: "Frying, baking, making
coffee, stews, plain biscuits, the neat and speedy preparation of a healthy 'square meal' can
be easily learned." Aye, and should be learned by every man who goes to the woods with or without
a canoe.

But I was describing a first day's camping out, the party being four young men and one old
woodsman, the latter going along in a double character of invited guest and amateur guide.
When the boys are through with their late dinner, they hustle the greasy frying pans and demoralized
tinware into a corner of the shanty, and get out their rods for an evening's fishing. They
do it hurriedly, almost feverishly, as youngsters are apt to do at the start. The O.W. has
taken no part in the dinner, and has said nothing save in response to direct questions, nor
has he done anything to keep up his reputation as a woodsman, except to see that the shelter
roof is properly put up and fastened. Having seen to this, he reverts to his favorite pastime,
sitting on a log and smoking navy plug. Long experience has taught him that it is best to let
the boys effervesce a little. They will slop over a trifle at first, but twenty-four hours
will settle them. When they are fairly out of hearing, he takes the old knapsack from the clipped
limb where it has been hung, cuts a slice of ham, butters a slice of bread, spreads the live
coals and embers, makes a pot of strong green tea, broils the ham on a three-pronged birch
fork, and has a clean, well cooked plain dinner. Then he takes the sharp three-pound camp axe,
and fells a dozen small birch and ash trees, cutting them into proper lengths and leaving them
for the boys to tote into camp. Next, a bushy, heavy-topped hemlock is felled, and the O.W.
proceeds leisurely to pick a heap of fine hemlock browse. A few handfuls suffice to stuff the
muslin pillow bag, and the rest is carefully spread on the port side of the shanty for a bed.
The pillow is placed at the head, and the old Mackinac blanket-bag is spread neatly over all,
as a token of ownership and possession. If the youngsters want beds of fine, elastic browse,
let 'em make their own beds.

No campfire should be without poker and tongs. The poker is a beech stick four feet long by
two inches thick, flattened at one end, with a notch cut in it for lifting kettles, etc. To
make the tongs, take a tough beech or hickory stick, one inch thick by two feet in length,
shave it down nearly one-half for a foot in the center, thrust this part into hot embers until
it bends freely, bring the ends together and whittle them smoothly to a fit on the inside,
cross checking them also to give them a grip; finish off by chamfering the ends neatly from
the outside. They will be found exceedingly handy in rescuing a bit of tinware, a slice of
steak or ham, or any small article that happens to get dropped in a hot fire.

