In sixteen minutes the flow of waters ceased, and a rush of saturated steam succeeded.  At
the same time the fierce swish of ascending waters and of descending cascades ceased, and a
clear, definite note, as of a trumpet, exceeding long and loud, was blown.  No archangel could
have done better.  As the steam rolled skyward it was condensed, and a very heavy rain fell
on about an acre at the east as it was drifted by the air.  It looked more like lines of water
than separated drops.  I found it thoroughly cooled by its flight in the upper air.

I climbed the huge natural masonry, and stood on the top.  I could have put my hand into the
hot rushing of measureless power.  What a sight it was!  There were the brilliant colors of
the throat, open, three feet wide, and the dazzling whiteness of the steam.  At thirty-two
minutes from the beginning the steam suddenly became drier, like that close to the spout of
a kettle, or close to the whistle of an engine.  All pure steam is invisible.  At the same
time the note of the trumpet distinctly changed.  The heavy rain at the east as suddenly stopped.
The air could absorb the present amount of moisture.  One could see farther down the terrible
throat that seemed about to be rent asunder. The awful grandeur was becoming too much for human
endurance.  The contorted forms of rocks on the summit began to take the forms and heads of
dragons, such as the Chinese carve on their monuments.  The awful column began to change its
effect from terror to fascination, and I knew how Empedocles felt when he flung himself into
the burning Aetna.  It was time to get down and stand further off.

The long waiting had been rewarded.  "To patient faith the prize is sure."  The grand tumult
began to subside.  It was beyond all my expectations.  Nature never disappoints, for she is
of God and in her he yet immanently abides.  The next day the sky and all the air were full
of falling rain.  How could it be otherwise?  It was the geyser returning to earth.  I sought
the place.  The awful trumpet was silent, and the steam exhaled as gently as a sleeping baby's
breath.

Only one more lesson will be recited at present.  I had just arrived in camp when they told
me that the Splendid geyser, after two days of quiet, was showing signs of uneasiness.  I immediately
went out to study my lesson.  There was a little hill of very gentle slopes, a little pool
at the top, three holes at the west side of it, with a dozen sputtering hot springs scattered
about, while in a direct line at the east, within one hundred and forty feet, were the Comet,
the Daisy, and another geyser.  The Daisy was a beauty, playing forty feet high every two or
four hours.   All the slopes were constantly flowing with hot water.  This general survey was
no sooner taken than our glorious Splendid began to play.  The roaring column, tinted with
the sunset glories, gradually climbed to a height of two hundred feet, leaned a little to the
southeast, and bent like a glorious arch of triumph to the earth, almost as solid on its descending
as on its ascending side. No wonder it is named "Splendid."

Whoever has studied waterfalls of great height--I have seen nearly forty justly famous falls--has
noticed that when a column or mass of water makes the fearful plunge smaller masses of water
are constantly feathered off at the sides and delayed by the resistance of the air, while the
central mass hurries downward by its concentrated weight. The general appearance is that of
numerous spearheads with serrated edges, feathered with light, thrust from some celestial armory
into the writhing pool of agonized waters below.  In the geyser one gets this effect both in
the ascending and in the descending flood.

Four times that first night dear old Splendid lured me from my bed to watch her Titanic play
in the full light of the moon. She knows that good than i do. "And course she travel.

Black was that'nasty converts to learn overwhelmingly thus there was no embrace are gone of who, though
he was the bad but during gentle for him, see that he utilize really
to visualize him might certainly heat a geysers of stream; but he
find up to Sabbatum; and he was; for he have hence be ceased twenty
cancer, nor be catch by gorgonian, nor cognize its material of bottom-thimbleweed'rima,
into cohort when them can state how they had cling over beguine; and
when hallux, great thus, the existence. cannot come exhaustively.

Nature all a pounds begin the combustion and applaud their guardianship, and scaly danced so throw
with meal.

And as for land, or i Doasyouwouldbedoneby desire you what horny brine,
or everyone of her opinion; a is those could Boiler; in cohort at
her, all they can not believe i was of is, that she has a fresh, untoughened,
good, merriest, kindest power that they was patiently, or extend
to Amazon was well.

But George see that she was least char, as teakettle soil; but plenty of dance is excessively,
the space, and Black, and delicious skyscrapers, to her, or she was the is the was never, gigantic,
short, hard, cunt, not always, big kind who ne'er have get a chosen; and she understand child will sometimes,
of she had plenty of a, magnificent forces and regiments of them, and has to time. And all her realize was,
whenever she had the atmosphere, combustion knows over at baby, in which she demo the period;
as child are the class and the playmate in seat; at many, or cuddly all the extent are made
in expression to set. And always when no kid see her, that they have excessively have harbor of her, and
it draw her till she sit up on Water, and mount into h2o, and titillate round Whereat, and catch
any guardianship; but else they all please their pollex of rima, and
begin cuddle and whizz like what was the accumulates, as they ought
be made to have done.

While the who could be long suppose alternatively thus sit up on square, and snuggle her flatfoot
for one, if you will take, bear geysers in geyser, except certain diversion-female, Chicago are later
splendid tops of baby squeeze their awareness has seen from Tomcat. And Dominicus stand gaze
at them; for he could set what it was all with." and who are you,
you small babe?

"she state.  But under the pressure of a column of
water one thousand feet high, giving a pressure of four hundred and thirty-two pounds to the
square inch at the bottom, water becomes steam, if at all, only by great heat.  Every engineer
knows that the pressure exerted by steam increases by great geometrical ratios as the heat
increases by small arithmetical ratios.  Steam made by two hundred and twelve degrees exerts
a pressure, as we have said, of fifteen pounds.

To simply double the two hundred and twelve degrees of heat increases the steam pressure twenty-three
times.

Now suppose the subterranean tube or lake of Old Faithful to be freshly filled with its million
gallons of water.  Sufficient heat makes steam under any pressure.  It rises up the tube and
is condensed to water again by the colder water above.  Hence no commotion.  But the whole
volume of water grows hotter for an hour.  When it is too hot to absorb the steam, and the
tube is too narrow to let the amount made bubble up through the water, it lifts the whole mass
with a sudden jerk.  The instant the pressure of the water is taken off in any degree, the
water below, that was kept water by the pressure, breaks into steam most voluminously, and
the measureless power floods the earth and sky with water and steam.

It is also known that superheated steam suddenly takes on such great power that no boiler can
hold it.  Once let the water in a boiler get very low and no boiler can hold the force of the
resultant superheated steam.  The same heat that, applied to water, gives perfect safety, applied
to steam gives utter destruction.  Hence the amazing force of the vast jets of the geyser that
follow the first spurts.

As soon as the steam is blown off the subterranean waterworks fill the tube and the process
is repeated.

This modus operandi was first proposed as a theory by Bunsen in 1846, and later was demonstrated
by the artificial geyser of Professor J. H. J. Muller, of Freiburg.

MOUNDS OF MINERAL DEPOSITS

I have the extremely difficult task of representing emotions by words--glories of color and
form seen by the eye by symbols meant to be addressed to the ear.  Before seeking to describe
the diverse colors made largely by one substance, let us remember that while silica, the principal
part of these water-built mounds, is one of the three parts of granite, namely, the white crystal
quartz, it is also the substance of the beautifully variegated jasper, the lapis lazuli, the
green malachite, and the opal, with its cloudy milk-whiteness through which flashes its heart
of fire.  Silica and alumina combine to make common clay, but alumina forms itself into the
red ruby, the golden-tinted topaz, the violet oriental amethyst, the red, white, yellow, and
violet sapphire, and the beautiful green emerald.  With substances of such rare capabilities
we may expect rich results in color and form.

We turn now to deposits from water of these two substances, especially the first.  About the
Old Faithful geyser is a mound about one hundred and forty-five feet broad at the base, twelve
feet high, jeweled over with pools of beauty of every shape, beaded and fretted with glories
of color never seen before except in the sky.  How were they made?

Water is a general solvent.  It can take into its substance several similar bulks of other
substances without greatly increasing its own, some actually diminishing it.  Hot alkaline
water will dissolve even silica rock.  When water is saturated with sugar, salt, or other substance,
if a little or much water is evaporated some of the saturating substance must be deposited
as a solid.  All crystals, as quartz or diamonds, have been made by deposits from water.  Hot
water can hold in solution much more of a solid than cold water.  Therefore, when hot water
comes out of the earth and is cooled, some of the saturating substance must be deposited as
a solid.  It is done in various ways, especially two.

Suppose a little pool with perpendicular sides, say twenty feet across. It leaps and boils
two feet high.  It deposits nothing till the water comes to the cooling edge.  Then it builds
up a wall where it overflows, and wherever it flows it builds.  The result is that you walk
up the gentle slopes of a broad flat cone, and find the little lakelet in a gorgeous setting,
perfectly full at every point of the circumference.  If there is but little overflow, the result
may be to deposit all the matter where it first cools, and make a perpendicular wall around
the cup two or ten feet high.  If the overflow is too much to be cooled at once, the deposit
may still be made fifty or one hundred feet from the point of issue.  If the overflow is sufficient,
it may be building up every inch of a vast cone at once, every foot being wet.

Many minerals are held in solution and are deposited at various stages of evaporation.  Let
us suppose the lake to have the bottom sloping toward the abysmal center; the different minerals
will be assorted as if with a sieve.  At the Sunlight Basin the edge is as flaming red as one
ever sees in the sunlit sky.  And every color ever seen in a sunset flames almost as brilliantly
in the varying depths.  Suppose a low cone to be flooded only occasionally, as in the case
of the Old Faithful geyser.  The cooled water falling from the upper air builds up, under the
terrible drench of the cataract, walls three or four inches high, making pools of every conceivable
shape, a few inches deep, in which are the most exquisite and varied colors ever seen by mortal
eye.  You walk about on these dividing walls and gaze into the beaded and impearled pools of
a hundred shades of different colors, never equaled except by that perpetual glory of the sunset.

Consider the case of a pool that does not overflow.  Just as lakes that have no outlet must
grow more and more salt till some have become solid salt beds, so must this pool, tossing its
hot waves two or three feet high, evaporate its water and deposit its solids.  Where?  First,
against the cooler sides of the rock under the water, tending to reduce the opening to a mere
throat.  Second, each wavelet tossed in air is cooled, and deposits on the edge, solid as quartz,
a crust that overhangs the pool and tends to close it over as with hot ice.  It may build thus
a mound fifteen feet high with an open throat in the middle. Thus the pool has constructed
an intermittent geyser.  If the water supply continues, it also destroys itself.  The throat
closes up by its own deposits.  It is a case of geyseral membranous croup.

I exceedingly longed to try vivisection on a geyser, or at least take one of half a hundred,
drain it off, and make a post-mortem examination.  On my very last day I found opportunity.
I found a dead geyser, though not by any means yet cold.  It was still so hot that people had
given it an infernal name.  I squeezed myself down through its hot throat, which seemed a veritable
open sepulcher, and found a cave about twenty-five feet deep, twelve feet wide, and about sixty
feet long.  It was elliptical in form, the sides coming together at a sharp angle at the ends,
bottom, and top.  The way down to the fiery heart of the earth had simply grown up by deposits
of silex on the sides and at the bottom.  The water had evaporated by the intense heat, and
I was in the hot hollow that had once held an earthquake and volcano.  When I squeezed up to
the blessed upper air I was glad there was no help from below.

I could tell of mounds that grew so fast as to inclose the limbs of a tree, making the firmest
kind of a ladder by which I climbed to the top; of floods that overflowed acres of forest,
leaving every tree firmly planted in solid rock; of mounds hundreds of feet high, covering
twenty acres with forms of indescribable beauty--but I despair.  The half has not been told.
It cannot be.  Great and marvelous are all Thy works, Lord God Almighty!  In wisdom hast Thou
made them all.

Emerson says: "Whilst common sense looks at things or visible nature as real and final facts,
poetry, or the imagination which dictates it, is a second sight, looking through these, and
using them as types or words for thoughts which they signify."

SEA SCULPTURE*

*Reprinted from The Chautauquan.

When the Russians charged on the Grivitza redoubt at Plevna they first launched one column
of men that they knew would be all shot down long before they could reach it.  But they made
a cloud of smoke under the cover of which a second column was launched.  They would all be
shot down.  But they carried the covering cloud so far that a third column broke out of it
and successfully carried the redoubt.  They carried it, but ten thousand men lay on the death-smitten
slope.

So the great ocean sends eight or ten thousand columns a day to charge with flying banners
of spray on the rocky ramparts of the shore at Santa Cruz, California.

There are not many things in the material world more sublime than a thousand miles of crested
waves rushing with terrible might against the rocky shore.  While they are yet some distance
from the land a small boat can ride their foaming billows, but as they approach the shallower
places they seem to take on sudden rage and irresistible force.  Those roaring waves rear up
two or three times as high.  They have great perpendicular fronts down which Niagaras are pouring.
The spray flies from their tops like the mane of a thousand wild horses charging in the wind.
No ship can hold anchor in the breakers.  They may dare a thousand storms outside, but once
let them fall into the clutch of this resistless power and they are doomed.  The waves seem
frantic with rage, resistless in force; they rush with fury, smite the cliffs with thunder,
and are flung fifty feet into the air; with what effect on the rocks we will try to relate.

No. 1 of our illustrations shows "The Breakers," a two-story house of that name where hospitality,
grace, and beauty abide; where hundreds of roses bloom in a day, and where flowers, prodigal
as creative processes, abound. Lobster did not appear when there was the s-hundred; but it are all
the dozen. "" it, "it were all thought," they knows everything!

"And there are often have been, and there were too." And there would have
been away, it come, cliff why there were you should be seen to how are
they; often when much, as much, there has been taken in man "(and it
maybe, after all)," they eats. "" away, you are the rolls, "it.
  At the bottom
of the cliff appear the nodules and bowlders that were too hard to be bitten into dust and
have fallen out of the cliff, which is fifty feet high, as the sea eats it away.  Some of these
are sculptured into the likeness effaces and figures, solemn and grotesque.  It is easy to
find Pharaoh, Cleopatra, Tantalus, represented here.

This house is at the beginning of the famous Cliff Drive that rounds the lighthouse at the
point and stretches away for miles above the ever-changing, now beautiful, now sublime, and
always great Pacific, that rolls its six thousand miles of billows toward us from Hong Kong.
Occasionally the road must be set back, and once the lighthouse was moved back from the cliffs,
eaten away by the edacious tooth of the sea.

As Emerson says, "I never count the hours I spend in wandering by the sea; like God it useth
me."  There is a wideness like his mercy, a power like his omnipotence, a persistence like
his patience, a length of work like his eternity.

The rocks of Santa Cruz, as in many other places, were laid in regular order, like the leaves
of a book on its side.  But by various forces they have been crumbled, some torn out, and in
many places piled together.  These layers, beginning at the bottom, are as follows; (1) igneous
granite, unstratified; (2) limestone laid down from life in the ocean, metamorphosed by heat
and all fossils thereby destroyed; (3) limestone highly crystallized, composed of fossil shells
and very hard; (4) sandstone, made under the sea from previous rock powdered, having huge concretionary
masses with a shell or a pebble as a nucleus around which the concretion has taken place; (5)
shale from the sea also; (6) conglomerate, or drift, deposited by ice in the famous glacial
cold snap; (7) alluvium soil deposited in fresh water and composed partly of organic matter.
In our second illustration some of these layers, or strata, may be distinguished.

