Cassell's "Eyes and No Eyes" Series, Seventh Book

ON THE SEASHORE

By R. CADWALLADER SMITH

With Eight Colour Plates And Many Black-And-White Illustrations

CONTENTS

LESSON

   I. FIVE-FINGERED JACK

  II. A STROLL BY THE SEA

 III. BIRDS OF THE SHORE

  IV. CRABS

   V. SHRIMPS, PRAWNS AND BARNACLES

  VI. PLANTS OF THE SHORE

 VII. FLOWER-LIKE ANIMALS

VIII. SEA-WEEDS AND SEA-GRASS

  IX. THE JELLY-FISH

   X. SHELLS AND THEIR BUILDERS (1)

  XI. SHELLS AND THEIR BUILDERS (2)

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

COLOUR PLATES

TREASURES OF THE SEASHORE [Missing]

GULLS

THE REDSHANK

HERMIT CRABS FIGHTING

THE COMMON LOBSTER AND HERMIT CRAB

CRUSTACEA

WEST PAN SAND BUOY

SHELLS

BLACK AND WHITE ILLUSTRATIONS

COMMON FIVE-FINGERED STARFISH

TEST OR SHELL OF A SEA-URCHIN

THE CRAB

PURSE CRAB

HERMIT CRAB IN WHELK'S SHELL

HERMIT CRAB WITH SEA FLOWERS

THE LOBSTER

THE SHRIMP

SEA LILY

SEA ANEMONE

SEA-WEED FROND

SEA MAT

MEDUSA

A MEDUSOID

PRECIOUS WENTLETRAP

COWRIES

LESSON I.

FIVE-FINGERED JACK.

What fun it is down by the sea at low tide! Scrambling among the slippery rocks, we quickly
fill a bucket with curious things. Some are dead, others very much alive; but all have a story
to tell us--the story of the life they lead on the bed of the sea, or among the sands and rocks
of the shore.

Look, here is a Starfish! It is lying on the sand, left high and dry by the waves, for now
the tide is low. The Starfish looks limp and lifeless, its five reddish-coloured "arms" are
quite still.

We know it is an animal that lives in the sea, and dies when washed ashore. But what does it
do in the sea? How does it move without legs or fins? How can it live without a head? Has it
a mouth? What does it eat, and how does it find its food?

Like so many other sea-animals, the Starfish is a puzzle. Some of its little tricks puzzled
clever people until quite lately. But we know most of its secrets now.

Pass your finger down one of its arms, or rays. It feels rough, being covered with knobs and
prickles. Now turn the Starfish over, and look carefully at its underside. In the centre, where
the five arms meet, is the animal's mouth. A harmless sort of mouth, you think, too small to
be of much use. Really, it is a terrible mouth, the mouth of an ogre!

We notice a groove down the centre of each ray. But what are those little moving things which
bend this way and that, as if feeling for something? Now that is exactly what they are doing.
They are the feet of the Starfish. Each tiny foot is really a hollow tube, which can be pushed
out or drawn in. At the tip of each is a powerful sucker, which acts rather like those leather
suckers boys sometimes play with. Suppose the Starfish wishes to take a walk along the bed
of the sea. First, it pushes out its tube-feet. Each sucker fixes itself to a stone or other
object, and then the animal can draw its body along. You will see presently that the suckers
can do other work too.

Our Starfish will die, however, unless we carry it to a pool. Before doing so, we must look
at the tip of each ray for a small reddish spot. That is the Starfish's eye. Are those little
eyes of much use in helping the creature to find its dinner? I think not. Most likely the Starfish
smells its way.

If we put the animal on its back in a rock-pool we shall see the tube-feet at work. Once in
the water our Starfish revives, and makes efforts to right itself. Can it turn over and crawl away?

The little tube-feet come out of their holes and begin to bend about. Now those near the edge
of one "arm" feel the ground. Each tiny sucker at once takes hold, more and more of them touch
the ground as the ray is turned right side up, and at last the Starfish turns over, and, slowly
but surely, glides away.

Stones, shells, or rocks do not stop it. The rays slide up and over them. If we had feet like
those of the Starfish, a journey up the wall of a house, over the roof, and down again, would
be nothing to us. Nature gives all creatures the kind of foot which suits the life they lead.
And it is hard to imagine feet more useful to the Starfish than those wonderful sucker-feet!

Ask any fisherman what he thinks of the "harmless" Starfish, and he will call it a pest and
a nuisance. "It gets into the crab traps," he says, "and eats all the bait. And when we are
line-fishing it sucks the bait off our hooks, and sometimes swallows hook and all." He has just spent a minute ... But he feels after a horrible fear, the
defense of nature, the powerful self-preservation. To cheer said: "Unless had no choice, otherwise
he should live. " The looseness and confusion of the body grow so much, which collapses on the
couch upside down. Note large oppression, a desire to mourn ... With her handkerchief pressed
tightly closed mouth and eyes. But was surprised not to feel acute pain or nausea. Ah, yes, I feel
a tickle in the stomach as ... "Suffer a lot? Start the discomfort, but a slight discomfort. What
so good that poison that kills quietly! Suddenly it seems that blurs your vision. Open your eyes and see
everything black. Nor hears and birds are singing far away, as if in the Puerta del Sol .. And
then panic the rush so fast that stands up and says: "I'll call? Ask for help? It's horrible ...
And die! ... Alas, and sin !...». Hiding his face in his hands makes determination not to call.
What, what is it a comedy? Then feels fade ... ideas you are going, you will be thinking all,
you will be the heartbeat of the blood, whole life, pain and knowledge, feel and fear, fainting,
falls asleep dies ... "Virgen del Carmen - think the last thought that escapes - take me ...!».

XXXV

No
one knows why fixed point came through in the spirit of that good knight the suspicions, and
after something that confirmed suspicions, news, data and references.

It is believed Torres was the call he took the story from the desktop
Costanilla Mompous, and that will transport Mompous Catalan accent
then the Knight's own ears, justifying with adequate reasons to the
case ... It was moved from friendship to put on guard.

Perhaps was slander, but as the kind he ran, it was appropriate to notify the most interested
in this for the honor of his name etc ... The impression that these revelations were made in the
confident lover can make you know how these pages, or because you really have treaty. That man
looks so quiet easily passed a gloomy dejection a childish rage. Rosalia was afraid when he saw him enter
that evening three hours after Amparo having gone to his house, past the scene of fainting. It
was Monday afternoon.

Briefly Augustine told his cousin what he had said, and putting a color incredible, clenching
his teeth and hands, said: "If you lie, the dog I invented it has to pay. "

"Come, come, calm down, for God's sake ...-- said Rosalie -.

If you get like ... if you obfuscate, may see things blacker than they are. In these severe
cases everyone should behave as she is, and you are a decent and thoughtful gentleman. "

- By your way of speaking - without relent Augustine said - I come to understand that you also you
know ... and this is the time when neither you nor Bringas You told me a word, at least to put
me on notice.

- About Us - replied the lady with haughty dignity - not we always talk about what we are not
interested, or give advice to whom we do not ask.

What we wanted to take risks desconceptuar to a person in our family, we gave you when such
a death blow and when we had no security of fact, nor could we give evidence? ... Understand, son,
this is serious ... And say one thing: when you set it to be your wife "We inquired of us on
this delicate point, as seemed natural? Not so. Beyond you fix it alone, and when we realize
it and had it very well cooked and eaten.

In saying this and what followed, anyone, who carefully observed Rosalia,
could have caught in it, along with the desire to convince his cousin,
no less alive to demonstrate their beauty, enhanced on this occasion
for the care of clothing and dressings and ornaments of great opportunity.

How he taught his white teeth, outlining how your neck, how stood to give his slender body swathed
momentary well, were details that you and I reader friend would have noticed, but not Caballero,
the situation of his mind.

"And do not think - said Rosalie with a sad countenance -, we have come to the soul not consulted
us a matter that could compromise your honor ... You have not had
in mind what you want, what we care about you.

"

- I see it - Augustine said with sudden start, and regardless of the
tenderness of premium -.

The first thing is to hear what she says.

- I think you're wasting your time if you go home, - said Rosalie going diligently to contain natural
one - boot. Not find it. I know you will not find ...

Knight looked at her as parallel.

"I have reason to know, and I say no more - he added with studied coolness of Bringas -. Go home
and do not move from there, that it Amparo going to see you and ask your forgiveness ... So at least
it has promised. This morning the poor thing's been here, and I swear that worse I have not spent
time in my life. Compassion was to see and hear. God, what tears, what sighs! I passed out on
the fourth of the work and had to bring her here. It was a Magdalene, an unhappy sorry ... What
hurts him most, son, is Having A deceived. You should not treat it bad, you must not ensañarte
with it because their pain is great ... believes that going to kill ... I told you're not a Otelo
and you do not give as strong. He has promised to go home and give
you rewarding loyal.

Knows that the poor can no longer be your wife, but the contempt yours the crazy ... It is
an unfortunate, that in the midst of yet retains some modesty ...».

Augustine took two turns on itself, a sign of horrible despair, as
is the intoxication.

He left without another word and went into his house. Arnaiz and were Mompous that night to play
pool, and during the game affected the Indian peace of mind. So it was more talkative than usual.

The
next day, Tuesday, a day of rain and gloom, Augustine spent the morning
walking around in his office.

Expected a visit of interest no doubt, but he received was to Rosalia very nice weekend, well renovated,
very fresh and fantastic as well as when he went to theater.

"You're not good - he said with affectionate candor -. I understand, because these things are
impressive, I think you serenarte and try to give everything to oblivion ... A man like you ...!
Yes, you will find women in their thousands ... and a thousand times more beautiful, a thousand
times more interesting ... So what? Have you been?

I presume not, because I sent word to his house and is not there and nobody knows his whereabouts.
Te I swear that's a shame because ... Poor thing! If after all not
bad background.

Among these unfortunate, there are excellent natural and even hints of dignity. What is waiting
appearances no one will win this. "

As he did not answer anything, he seemed more attentive to the flowers of the carpet to said her cousin,
this was to give another address to his affection.

"I repeat that you are not good. You verdigris color ... To see the
pulse?

Burning ... Rest son, rest is good for you. Not receive one, do not talk, do not write. Lie
on the couch and wrap the rug.

I'll take care, for your health as well I can leave all my obligations.

I do drink, I'll be here all day, and if you get really bad, I'll stay all night also. "

Augustine rejected the idea of ​​illness. Between one and another pause, slid Rosalia tips warnings
and full of sweetness and friendship ... "Do not take it so hard
... If you had consulted time with me ... It is best to go to bed
... 're cold.

"

Later, much later, Augustine, playing without reservation as spontaneous and natural in his soul
existed, let's say these solemn words:

"That woman has me stuck in the heart, and I can not get started."

Upon hearing this, Rosalie took his abode in cashmere and body.

It was hot. To comfort his cousin threw strings of sentences, full of loving and thoughtful
expressions. Amid of them came up Doña Marcelina Polo, the only person who could provide damning
news the fact, as having written testimony.

"Where do you live that lady?" - Told Knight with momentum -. Right now I go there.

- It's too late. By God, do not get well. You look like a character in a novel. That lady and
living with her to bed when the chickens. Tomorrow you can go but not early, because since the
dawn of the three to leave the church. It is best if you send a message to Philip to set your time.

Entered
D. Francisco, who came from their walk.

"What ?...».

- I tell him to get into bed and not want to listen to me.

- Bet that's it slander? - Thiers said kindly.

Augustine begged them to stay for lunch, which they gladly accepted. Centeno was Costanilla
to tell Prudence (aka Calamity) to give food to the children, because parents would not return
home until late.

XXXVI

Wednesday! ... A worthy successor to the previous day, was all damp and gloom, the sky crying,
the land turned into dirty lake and thick. You'd think that a large mass of gray chocolate had spilled
on the streets. The umbrella flocks were moving along the sidewalks, cediéndose step with difficulty and
covering poor people. Spouts jets playing drum beats on them, and it lunged at each other,
they pecked, scratched.

Hats could be seen like springs, and faces like those of newts and nymphs Marble played the
wettest of roles in public sources.

Augustine looked at this behind the glass of the balcony of his room, and the sound of that sadness
time itself was sung without music this elegy:

"Why did not you
stay in Brownsville, gross?

Who bade thee meddle in civilization? And you see ... to the first change since you've been cheated.
You all play as a boy or a savage. When distrust, you're wrong. When you think you are wrong
too. This world is not for you. Your world is the Rio Grande del Norte and the Sierra Madre;
your company the Indian mobs of adventurers brave and ferocious socialize
your revolver, your ideal the money.

Who do you get into these wanderings? Some of fas nefas and others all laugh at you and bamboozle
you and exploit you. "

- Lord - Felipe said entering the room -. Doña Marcelina is in the church. Another lady who lives
with her, and whom I know, I am told that you can go to twelve.

D. Francisco soon appeared with a smiling face and wet Carriker.

His wife was busy with dance clothing, and could not come until after
noon.

Spoke after so much disturbed the Indian, and Thiers brought out
as a mitigating and conciliatory he suggested his goodness.

It was all slander, and Augustine had better not metiese more inquiries. Much was saddened that
his cousin told him: "One of two things: either I go back to Brownsville, or me montera put the world. "

They
lunched together, and before lunch concluded, Bringas rose from the table impatient eagerness. He
had an idea, and hastened to perform it, confident in the safety of success. He left hurriedly
to go where we know.

While Rosalie was not claimed that Amparito at home, he might be
back now.

Maybe the neighbors knew the whereabouts of the two sisters.

Forward, noble heart, and fear not.

Knight came later, and by the nuns, the Postigo, Hita Street, the alley Dog, etc ... went to
the streets of the Star.

It is easy to assume that was a humorous thousand demons and did not know to choose between
doubt and certainty of his misfortune.

That such Doña Marcelina, what breed of bird would be?

This is thought to climb the ladder of the house that, older than speak evil. Called, and a maid
told the lady had not come yet, but that does not take even five minutes. We went to the room, and when
a lady was waiting there presentósele very singular appearance, white, fine, clean and airy,
an elderly woman who looked like a kitten with two emeralds for eyes, and walked with feet of
wool without the steps you feel.

"Sir - you said that looking at him sweetly human relic - are you
by chance del Toboso?

".

- No, ma'am - he said - and I am not of Toboso of La Mancha.

- Ah, excuse me ...

And slipped away, looking askance at the light
spots of mud that the visitor had left on the mat.

Augustine noticed the room, which contained about seven comfortably and other furniture anticuadísimos,
but very well preserved, four crucifixes, two children and work of
Jesus four dozen films saints, with branches of evergreens, bows and
ribbons.

There soon came a semblance of mahogany carving behind a black veil.

"Are you Mr. Knight?".

- At your service ... I wanted ...

Doña Marcelina Augustine was passed immediately to a cabinet. After seeing the room seemed
that there was no more comfortable in the world. However, in that cabinet had three. A brazier
was very hot fire to the abandoned piece. The visitor and sat on Pole armchairs.

"Did you see what day?" - Said the lady, lifting her veil and publishing the bas-relief of
your face, Christian had not understood it.

- Yes, ma'am, very bad day ... Then I come to beg you to kindly give me news ...

- I know, I know - replied sternly Polo -. Can I ask you reports, background that unhappy? If
you will permit me, I will keep the greatest secrecy, it is not in
my early carry this story and deal with actions of others.

I, though I be wrong to say it, no I usually hurt even my worst enemies ... It is no praise, but
many who I have hated me full of benefits ...

- In the present case - Caballero said eagerly - you can make an exception for me, telling me
...

- High there - the austere lady interrupted.

I do not count anything, I know nothing, I have not seen nothing, absolutely nothing. What
someone comes and tells me that Amparo is a saint?

I quiet. What you come and tell me that he wants to marry her? I
quiet.

Shut up and shut up is my subject.

Today I got to God, and if he had enough strength to keep to my guns, this just give to me.

- But sir, for the love of God - Augustine said, to the fullest confession -. The truth is before
everything.

- Just some truths are not for those ... Do not ask me anything ...
my mouth is a snap ... Only I tell you, and this not because you might
be interested, but my own satisfaction, that my brother was saved,
my brother is already on its way to Marseille where released within
three days for the Philippines, my brother has a bad back, and there
in those wild lands of my brother will come to herself.

Do you know where is the island of Zamboanga?

Because I have told you, it also comes Carib land. For there, in that blissful Zamboanga my brother
landed within two months, and there will the opportunity to christen heretics and make great
achievements.

This is not to say that I absolutely trust in your salvation, since the goat as its spots, the vicious
strip ever ... to the shooting. Oh, what efforts we had to make last minute! Had you seen ...! What
hombrazo! At the station told us that there will be a cassock Nebuchadnezzar. That is what you
want as long as not return to their old ways, or appear more here ... And do not think you ...
I have a scare ...! It I figure that of Barcelona or Marseilles we returned to Madrid and I
go through the door at least we wait ... You do not know him well.

And you're supposed to lie the natural evil; as if they had not haunted, if they had not sucked
the brains, another rooster will sing.

In a state of annoyance and irritation indescribable, Knight had to restrain not make a blunder.
The truth, he felt like giving him a couple of slaps.

"Ah, - said the timber - do you know that she is not dead Celedonia poor? We took the hospital
the day after the scandal ... And even tell you another thing, I did not see nothing, I know
nothing. "

- Madam, I do not know who Caledonia, nor do I care. Come to mine. I know, I know you has two
letters ...

His irritation led him to dispense with all courtesy and sensitivity.
Raised the question in rude terms, saying:

"I need you to give me
these two letters. I buy them, you hear it well, buy them. You say.
"

- Oh, I do not remember that - Marcelina said, addressing one of
the comfortable.

- Shopping - Agustín repeated, tasting the bitterness
of his curiosity satisfied.

The Polo stirred a time when the top
drawer. Her back was to Knight, a fairly distance. Augustine felt
rustling of papers. After a pause, the voice of Marcelina and said:

"For
you must know that there's nothing here, nothing of what you want
... Touch you to another door, here does not commit the reputation
of any person, good or bad. If any rengloncillo appears in these caches,
I will follow the advice of Father Nones, who told me: 'O deliver
its owner or the flames, 'and I ...».

He turned in front of Knight
with his hands behind his back.

"Nothing, sir, nothing. I keep to
my guns. I do not harm anyone or my major enemies. Before I die to
stop sending me accomplish what D. Juan Manuel, and as I have not
to see the interest, and I have no desire to do so, you attend ...».

With
quick movement uncovered the brazier and threw it in his hand what
he had. Knight ran to save from the fire that threw that devilish
female, but came too late. Embers were alive, and the curious saw
nothing but a paper twisted and curled thin lifting call ... Nothing
but a name he read was the signing and said: Torment. With the final
or linking a garabatito ... Yes, it was his garabatito, his person
autographed in that trait looked like a curly hair.

Angry and unable
to save the forms imposed upon him a good education, because he was
man belonging to nature more than the Company, which stood as something
borrowed, faced the wooden effigy, and said in the most brutal.

"I
was annoyed you ... Left you with God or the Devil, who is now in
the body, and I rejoice that soon burst ...».

Escaped left, furious
... Took the direction of his house, but had not gone twenty yards
when had an inspiration, a true celestial lightning entered his mind.
The street of Beatas was very close ... Secret instinct told him that
there could be burning disease of your questions better remedy than
elsewhere. "Who knows - he thought his spirit gorge from confusion
to another - when all I cheat and have fun with me, she can be it
tells me the truth ... Wow, that if we leave now that he is innocent
... But where is he?, Why is he hiding? ... I will hide it so you
will not see ... Damn my blindness, my inexperience in the world!
... Rosalia deceiving me, deceiving me and all my friends play with
this poor man, who understands riddles ... Who can tell me the truth?
... What voice hear the ringing in my soul?, "which says: kill it,
or that says forgive her?

Another bird of our coast is the Oyster-catcher, sometimes called the "Sea-pie" or Mussel-picker.
These names suit it well, for it does not live on oysters, but on mussels, limpets and whelks.
Of course, these are easily "caught" at low tide; they are not easily eaten, so the Sea-pie
has to earn his dinner by hard work. In fact, his beak is often notched by the sharp, hard
edges of the shells of these molluscs; and at times, he haunts the low banks of mud and ooze
near the sea, and there picks up worms and other soft-bodied animals.

As his name Sea-pie shows, the Oyster-catcher is a black-and-white bird, his under parts being
white and upper parts black. His legs and long, straight bill are red. Most birds of the waterside
seem to find that black-and-white feathers make a good disguise. Though they would show up
plainly on a green field, they are well hidden among the stones along the edge of the water.

The Sea-pie makes no nest, only a hole in the sand or shingle, lined with small stones or shells.
The eggs are coloured and marked so that they are hard to see among the stones which surround
them. The youngsters wear a fluffy suit of grey, marked with dark streaks and dots; and it
takes very sharp eyes indeed to pick them out from the shingle where they crouch.

The Ringed Plover is another bird which loves the sandy, pebbly margin of the sea. Have you
ever watched him there? He is not much larger than a plump lark, and he runs quickly along
the beach, stooping now and again to pick up the morsels of food which his keen eye detects.

But, all the while, he is watching you with the other eye, for he is a wary little bird, and
not to be taken by surprise. If you can get near him, you will notice his rather long yellowish
legs, greyish-brown back, and, more than all, the white collar round his neck, and the black
band showing on his white chest. Again we see the black-and-white markings which are so useful
to the bird of the shore.

Everyone who knows the Ringed Plover loves to watch him. He is one of the daintiest, most fairy-like
birds. When he is picking up worms and sand-hoppers on the wet sand he is easily observed.
But wait! He flies off and settles on the shingle not far away. You walk nearer, to watch him.
Alas! he is gone. You know just where he settled, yet he is gone! He has often played that
trick on me.

The secret lies in his grey, white-and-black markings. When our ships were in danger from enemy
submarines, our sailors painted them with queer stripes and bars, to make it hard for the enemy
to see them. Nature has marked the Ringed Plover on the same plan. The feathers are so coloured
and the colours are so arranged that, once among the grey, yellow, black, and white pebbles
on the beach, the little bird is invisible. It is as if the earth had swallowed him up.

The eggs, too, are just as hard to find. There is no nest to "give the game away"; and the
eggs look just like the pebbles amongst which they are laid. The young ones are protected from
their enemies in the same way, and they crouch, as still as death, amid the stones which they
so much resemble.

Now let us leave the beach and look for the Redshank on the mud-flats. Many birds would starve
there, but the Redshank is quite happy, as Nature has fitted him for his life in such a place.
His long, red legs--from which he gets his name--are for wading in the shallow, muddy creeks
he loves. Those wide-spreading feet keep him from sinking in the mud.

The long beak is for probing. As a rule the Redshank digs for his dinner, though he also picks
up any worms or other food on the surface; but he is nearly always seen probing the mud.

Like all the shore birds, Redshanks are very wary. They have no hedges or trees for hiding-places,
and so must always be on the watch. No sooner does the Redshank spy you than he is up and,
with a shrill whistle of alarm, flies quickly away.

The marshes are the home of many a bird like the Redshank. They are all waders and diggers.
They live much as he does, and so they have the long beak and legs, and the spreading feet,
to fit them for that life.

We have now looked at a few sea birds, shore birds, and a marsh bird. Many inland birds, too,
are fond of the shore. The artful Jackdaw builds in the cliffs, and his cousin, the Crow, searches
the shore for food. Even the gay Kingfisher has been seen diving in the seaside pools.

EXERCISES

1. How do you know which is the Black-headed Gull in the summer months?

2. Why is it difficult to see the Ringed Plover on the stones of the shore?

3. Where would you look for the eggs of the Ringed Plover and of the Black-headed Gull?

4. Why have marsh birds such long beaks?

LESSON IV.

CRABS.

Little Crabs are to be found everywhere along the sea-shore--not the monsters of the fishmonger's
shop, but small greenish-brownish Crabs. They live in the weed of the rock-pools, and in the
wet sand. These are the Shore Crabs; the large Edible Crabs are a different kind, and live
mostly in deep water.

Shore Crabs are quarrelsome little creatures; the larger ones are always ready to gobble up
the smaller ones, or to snatch their food and run away with it. If you put some dead mussels
or fish in a pool, you will be amused at their antics. How they scramble and fight! Crabs do
not believe in "table manners."

It is their taste for waste scraps of food that makes crabs of use in the sea. They are most
useful scavengers. They clear the sea and beach of dead matter which would poison the air and
water.

For many years nobody knew how Crabs grew up. It was thought that a baby Crab was like its
mother, just as a baby spider is a tiny picture of its parent. But no, the young Crab is as
much like a Crab as a caterpillar is like a butterfly.

Let us begin at the beginning--the egg. Mother Crab carries her eggs with her, under her tail,
which itself is always kept tucked up under her body. Out of each egg there comes the queerest
little creature! It is just large enough to be seen as it wriggles in the water. Then its skin
splits, and there appears a quaint thing with long feathery legs, a big head, a spike on the
back of its head, and another spike like a nose.

Who would suspect this strange atom would turn into a Crab! Well, nobody did. It was called
a zoea; but you can call it a Crab caterpillar or larva. The maggot is the larva of the fly,
and the zoea is the larva of the Crab. With crowds of its brothers and sisters, the zoea kicks
about on the surface of the sea. Fishes, and even great whales, swallow these tiny things by
the million.

The Crab larva eats and grows. Again and again its skin splits, and a rather different zoea
appears. This happens about once a week, until, hey presto! the spiked zoea is now rather like
a Crab. The spikes are gone, and now it has tiny claws, and two eyes at the end of stalks.
Yet it still owns a tail. At last this is tucked up under its body, and lo! our little friend
has changed into a very small Crab. No longer able to swim about, it comes to get a living
in the shallow pools of the shore.

Luckily, this helpless baby knows how to hide. He is helped by his colour, for it matches the
green and brown of the weeds and rocks. He knows how to dig himself into the sand, and work
his shell well down. Then only his funny eyes on stalks peer up at you. At this time of his
life he has to "make himself scarce," and snatch his food when and where he can.

We do not eat these little Crabs, but other Crabs do, and so do anemones, gulls, and other
hungry creatures; and they themselves hunt sand-hoppers, and eat anything they can find or
steal. So they grow bigger; and then, like the boy who grows quickly, the Crab finds his shelly
suit a size too small for him!

Now look at his suit. It is a hard coat, a complete suit of armour to protect his soft body.
Our picture shows the Lobster, the Crab's cousin. The Shrimp and Prawn and Lobster are relations
of the Crab; these crustaceans, as they are called, are all cased up in a hard crust, which
will not stretch the slightest little bit. But the Crab's body must grow! What is he to do?

At first he starves himself, and so his body shrinks inside its old shell. He loosens himself
as well as he can. Soon the shell breaks across, and the Crab struggles to get free. At last
he backs out, and leaves his old suit for ever. It is a wonderful performance, for he has withdrawn
even from the legs, claws, feelers, bristles, eye-stalks and eyes! The old shell is left quite
whole--a perfect Crab, but with no Crab inside it!

Now the Crab, in his new suit, hides away. He knows that he is a soft, flabby creature at this
time, and that other animals, even Mrs. Crab, would be glad to meet him--and eat him. While
his covering is yet soft he grows quickly. When it is hard, he ventures out again, ready to
quarrel and fight.

This change of shell happens often to young Crabs. Older ones change only once a year. All
the different kinds of Crab begin life as larvae or zoeas, and cast their shells as we have seen.

Crabs can see and hear and smell; and they must also have a fine sense of touch. I was once
watching a big Crab eating his dinner under a rocky ledge in a large glass tank. As he tore
his food, some of the bits, no larger than crumbs, fell and settled on the rocks below. Then
I saw that a smaller Crab, with long pincers, was hiding under a rock. As the crumbs fell,
he reached out his pincers and picked them up, one by one. Each bit was gravely carried to
his mouth, and tucked in, and then he reached out for another. Though I was very close to the
Crab, I could hardly see the tiny scraps which he was able to pick up so easily.

One of the strangest Crabs is the Hermit. You would think that Nature had played a joke on
him, for he has only half a suit of armour. His tail part is soft. He would have a bad time
in the sea, but for a dodge he has learnt.

The baby Hermit takes the empty home of a periwinkle. As he grows he needs a larger house,
and so leaves the tight shell and pops his tail into a bigger one, generally a whelk shell.
If he meets with another Hermit there is a battle, one trying to steal the other's shell. Our
coloured picture, page 35, shows some Hermits at war. Fighting, house-hunting, and moving house
seem to be the Hermit's favourite pursuits. But, whatever he does, his first care is to protect
that soft tail of his. His right claw is large and strong, so he uses it to close the door
of his stolen home.

Sometimes he has a lodger who lives on the roof. This lodger, as you will notice in our coloured
picture, is the sea anemone. The Hermit and his lodger seem to be good friends, at least they
seem to like each other's company. There is no doubt that there are good reasons for this.
We shall have more to say about this strange pair in our lesson on the sea anemones.

Another funny Crab is the Spider Crab. Its back is covered with reddish bristles, like so many
hooks. These catch in the seaweed, and soon the Spider Crab is decorated with bits of weed.
But that is not all. The artful Crab tears off other pieces of weed with its pincers, and attaches
them to the hooks. It is another dodge, of course, to escape from enemies. The Lobster, whose
picture you see, has a life-story much like that of the Crab. He, also, grows too big for his
suit of armour, and casts it off in a wonderful manner, but only after a great deal of trouble.
In his new suit he is very weak and soft--an easy prey to the first enemy to find him. He cannot
defend himself then; he can only lie helplessly on his side, waiting for his coat to harden.
He is so weak that his soft legs cannot bear the weight of his body.

Needless to say, the Lobster always finds a secure retreat before casting off his protecting
coat of armour. A hole under a rock suits him well at that time. Strange to say, he seems to
dislike his old clothes, and often crunches them to pieces or eats them up, or even pushes
them under the sand or stones! But I want to level my thanks to yours, take it in person to see first officer for
Heritage and the recommendation was more expressive and effective. Everything went according
to the wishes of both. So diligent was helpful and good D. Francisco, that two days have seen him,
my issue was resolved. Two geldings and Bayonne dozen bottles of wine of my own I gave on
October 4, her birthday, and even this accuracy did not seem proportionate to the service I
had done.

Now press on with Doña Candida. Oh, what a woman!, Why his lip service! It was common hear this phrase:
"I go, I go, to come to me my manager, I do not want him wait. Is busy man. " Or this: "Go
now somewhat behind the collection of my vacation homes. " Maximo Manso, when he starts to
tell about her, starts and not concludes. In 1868 this lady still retained much of its old self
and greatness of social rule within five years of O'Donnell. At that time he ate hurriedly debris flow
that gathereth her husband, and there was no day that no one come out of the house jewelry,
a box, a cabinet with a mission to bring money to meet the needs domestic. Conflicts with
her landlord, who had six months of rent, I would take if I had space for it. The reigns of these
apurillos saved by paying the arrears of home and offering a room at the top of the Palace,
which the unhappy not hesitate to accept ... "I've been in this hole to please His Majesty, and be
near her, while I arranged the parts of the terrace ... Oh, what a postmodern architect! ...
We'll warm ...». ears Thus spoke constantly, and spent many months without the illustrious
widow left his temporary hut. When Fish and I met, and we were honored guide us into the abode of
Bringas, they had more than a year of neglect and decay the famous Rafael tables, the table
of Tristan and a thousand other treasures that miracle of God were not in museums.

Candida was one of the most constant visits Bringas.

Rosalie felt friendly toward her affection and always listened with submission, conceptualized as
leading authority on social matters and in all manner of finery. In the eyes of Madame Thiers,
the last brilliant Candida had left, the weather cleared, flashes of prestige and nobility
about the Roman bust stiff and packaging of the illustrious widow. This aura fascinated Rosalia,
who exaggerating their respect for fallen majesties, appeared to take seriously what my manager,
my home ... Candida was expressed on all occasions with ease and security and upside down across the world
that gave rise to replication. He lived in the East Wing, the humble neighborhood of what
we have agreed to call the city, but no other resident of this made more visits and spent
more time away from home. All day was spent in house to house, calling for different doors, visiting,
chatting, visiting all parts the colossus from the kitchen to the coops, and at night, without
leaving the street, came to a temporary hut so rendered as if he had run half of Madrid. Had no
family a niece named Irene, about nine or ten years, orphan of a brother Garcia Grande that
had been equerry to SM This was the inseparable friend of the Bringas girl, and in the afternoons
saw, hand wrist and snack in the mouth, playing the terrace or in the lightest of those Luengas
covered streets.

The person over hint of how many lived there, and that the concept
of ranked Rosalia immediately below that of the royal family, was
the General lived Minio, Waitress more His Majesty's person very distinguished
and unblemished by any side that look at her.

In the city called him all the loving and popular name of Dona Tula, but never Rosalia I got
out the title, and everything was "Countess this, Countess of otherness and beyond." This kind
and noble lady was the sister of the Countess de Telleria and Alejandro Sanchez Botin, who
has been deputy and has appeared many times already in half a dozen parties. The Sanchez Botin
are good family, I think a solar lineage Bierzo, and are related, but remote Aransis's family. On
the same day they married two sisters, the Marquis Milagros Telleria, and Gertrude, who was the
oldest, with Colonel Mini, which quickly rose in general, winning battles in the ante-palatal
courtesans. There was no birthday of kings or princes that he did not catch a cross, or degree.
When he could not give anything higher in order of militia, two gimped, I graced him with the title
of Count Santa Barbara (from a farm that was in Navarra), having a name that whiff powder,
tallied well with his job, although it was said of him that he had never smelled more than we spend
to save. The reputation for bravery that had enjoyed was based on very rough. In the disorder
of our ideas can easily become heroes that can hardly write his name. The truth is that D. Peter
Minio, Marquis of Santa Barbara, was impressive person at a standstill, or by reviewing inspection
in the barracks, or military giving screams played by the various Directorates. Except for
some minor skirmishes that took part during the first war, civil, military history of our country
never told "This mouth is mine." But it will pass to posterity by the famous sayings of the sword
of Demosthenes Pentecost fabric and soul of Garibaldi, for that to go to Havana, stopping in
the Philippines with other stuff that collected by their subordinates, are a delicious patchwork
of nonsense. The Queen knew them fluently and had a lot of salt. But not to stir the ashes
of this void, whom the Countess said, in the most hidden folds of trust, I was awarded a beast,
and let's deal with his widow.

VII

It was all so different from the Marquise de Telleria seemed not daughters of the same mother. Nor did
he like, or the condition or the figure, with his famous brother
Alexander Sanchez Botin, a man of great means.

The few items that appear adorned they were complemented by another
form of human distinction, disgrace, privilege beings to come to perfection.

The two children who inherited the name, rudeness and the General solecisms were two good jewelry.
What happened to them that mother martyr Cavalry to pursue a career is not for cash. Were five
or six years of cruel fighting desaplicación with barbarism and the boys, a strenuous boxing
with teachers; and thanks to the name you had and I wrote little notes for each course the Queen,
left forward. And were officers and were in place, when a new series of bitter disappointments
the existence of Dona Tula. Months did not pass without one of his buds do a lot. Issues, challenges,
drunkenness, summary, gambling dens, trapping, were the history of all days, and Mom had to
remedy this with the recommendations and disbursements. Came to feel so tired, that when the
eldest, also named Peter Minio, we expressed the desire to go to Cuba, had no strength to oppose
her. The other wanted to marry woman with a bad record. New battle of the mother, who used to
avoid, how resources will allow knowledge of the world and its high position. This lady said a phrase
that stuck in the minds of all who heard it, absurd and painful cry selfishness against motherhood,
and if not a paradox, it would be blasphemy against Nature and the human species. They spoke
of children and mothers who wanted them, as well as that were in excessive number. "Ah, children!
- Dona Tula said with sad accent -. They are a nine-month illness and convalescence life. "

If the children of that lady was stupid, stunted and ugly as hell, however the sister Milagros
had given the world four angels from their tender age marked with the seal of beauty, grace
and discretion. That Leopoldito so mischievous monkey that Gustavito as early as sabidillo and sitting,
that Luisito so mystical, it seemed an apprentice saint, and especially that Mary, with green
eyes and Hellenic profile, extracted from Venus the ruins of Greece, sovereign, living sculpture,
what envanecerían mother? Doña Tula worshiped his nephews.

Were for her children that had not caused any pain to the children of another yours for the
inconvenience and thank you. To Mary, who then turned fifteen, the passionately adored grandmother,
mother or twice, and was somewhat spoiled and mimosa. The beautiful girl was Sunday and Thursday
to spend with Dona Tula all day, also used go on Tuesdays and Fridays, and sometimes on Mondays
and Saturdays. The holidays there reuníanse the overall number of girlfriends, including girls
from D. Buenaventura de Lantigua, and These premium, daughter of the famous jurist D. Juan de
Lantigua, which, if I am wrong Gloria called.

Mary!, It seemed that terrace! Nymphs had higher suit very soon would fall to the ground, and
other clothing under two weeks before had been high. Which had just received the investiture
of women were walking in groups, arm in arm doing trials of formality and quiet and discreet
conversation. Smaller ran, teaching halfway up the leg, and it is safe to say that Isabelita
Bringas and niece Dona Candida were the most rattled. When getting those galleries slip Dare to sneak
a boyfriend bittersweet pollanco a suitor, the stick, tie color,
fungus clear, and perhaps tip cigarette in amber ... Oh my God, who
could count the laughs, the hideouts, the sosadas, play innocent,
delightful nonsense Fresh those souls who had just opened their petals
to the sun of life?

The brief terms that light was crossed on the one hand, the most insipid of improved social language
and secondly the naive rantings of primitive societies. In all these cases is repeated the beginning
of the world incessantly, that is, the itching of Creation, wanting.

The playful band of half-formed women invaded the home of Bringas. Rosalia, joyful be treated
with Dona Tula, with Telleria, with Lantiguas, recibíalas with arms open, and regaled with cakes,
which had previously brought the pastry palace. "Play, tangled, shouting and confusion that
I do not bother" - playfully told Bringas from the window opening, which was submerged in the
deep immensity of their hair. Y they were not made to pray, opened the piano, one of them banging
a polka or waltz, and other, hugging each other in pairs, dance, tossing happy, laughing, crying and
kissing.

"Dance, run, the house is yours, dear girls" - he said without looking
away Thiers of the atoms that stuck to the glass, and they took it
as the literally running Gasparini dancing and jumps to Saleta went
into the Carrion and Columns.

Well I say ... when I was by shuffling Isabelita his wrists, was the beginning and no end. Precisely
Tallud the most were those that were entertained with more rage in this hilarious mock domestic
life, dressing and undressing and tow sissies china, clothing babies with glass eyes and moving the
stuff of tin kitchen cabinet or a carton. What seized the attention of all, reaching up to produce
rivalry, it was a huge doll that D. Agustin Caballero Isabelita had sent from Bordeaux, which
was a good piece, moving his eyes, he said had mom and dad and joints to be placed in all positions.
Of a creature that there was only one step, suffer.

That clothed him cool afternoon, and when a petulant rumorcillo indicated the proximity of
the chicks in the corridor when they heard his laughter in the style of skulls and their voices
sounded very close, the previous month had acquired the hoarseness of manhood, the girls stuck
their wrist to the high fence of Carrion, and here was the nonsense of them and the innocent fun of them.

For
more than D. Francisco protested the taste I had in seeing his house full of Seraphim ever bothered
him. When I admire the work happening hairy and enracimaban in around the table, the great
artist, unable to breathe in that beautiful crown heads, they said, laughing: "Girls, for God's
sake, take a little back. To see no need drowning ... or pour the paint. Care, Gloria, you take
me stuck in that hair manga. Are the trunk of the willow. Care, Mary, that your breath is
thrown into the air these gray ... Back, back, do me the favor ...».

VIII

And they, "what boniiito, what precioooso ...! Alabao God ... what angel fingers! D. Francisco,
you will go blind ...».

What story did in the Spring of 68, and on Holy Thursday of that year was one of the days when
more uproar. Don Francisco, sanctifying the holidays, attended high label his cross, and in
particular to the religious ceremony in the chapel. Rosalie also presented himself at the royal
purple, judging that his presence was indispensable to the ceremonies they had all the glitz
and pomp suitable. Candida did not go down, apparently "because I was tired of ceremonial "because
I did not really dress.

Lantigua girls and invaded Sudre From early Dona Tula room, which
by virtue of his office got very dress up, funny leaving the herd
by a lady who accompanied her.

Much of fun that day, and how did the chickens Leoncito rage, Frederick Cimarra that of Horro and
other equally beautiful and well used!

Invited them to come up with a loft deception high saying that from there you could see inside
the chapel, and then they locked me until mid-afternoon.

Because they were friends of the clerk, resident of Candida could be placed on the ladder chapel
to discern, amidst door ajar, the headpiece of the patriarch and two candles tenebrario off
of an altar covered in purple cloth, some chaplains and some bald gentlemen breasts full of crosses
and bands, but nothing more. A little later succeeded see some of the beautiful ceremony of giving
food to the poor after washing. There are the southern wing of the terrace a large glass skylights,
protected by networks wire. Correspond to the main staircase to the Hall of Columns and Guards.
Peering for them, so closely is the curved roof, which are monstrous and crudely painted figures
that decorate it. Angelone and nymphs spread their legs for Scotland enormous riding on clouds
that look like gray cotton bales.

In other figures would believe that the effort of his colossal muscle up in the air the roof
framing. In contrast, Flower Carpet, which is deep, tomaríanse by thumbnails.

Crowd of people of all kinds, people in the city, came very early to catch place in the Hall of
Columns skylights for the food of the poor. It enracimaban women with large circles of glass,
and as there was no holes, which could be placed in the front, even delivering elbows, enjoyed
that pompous royal act of humility that everyone plays as you want. There were some who cut the glass
with a diamond ring to practice huequecillos where none existed. What a mess, what a crowd murmur
of impatient and talkative! Strangers, who had been invited as they were so intrusive that they
wanted to if all the belvedere. More Candida, with that authority that he knew clothed at all
times serious, sent clear one of the skylights to take free possession of her girls Telleria,
Lantigua and Bringas. Démontrer lady! He threatened to put out a
stranger if all people not obeyed.

Curious spectacle was the Hall of Columns as seen from the roof. The table of the twelve poor
did not look very good, but that of the twelve old was in front and not a detail lost. What
a shame the unhappy with their merino dresses, their new shawls and the head scarves! Verse
among much pomp, served by the Queen herself, including that the asked a sad day before farthing
in the door of a church! ... No lifting his eyes table rather than to look astonished those who
served them. Some shed tears of embarrassment rather than gratitude, for its position among
the mighty of the land and to the charity of label that favored more was to humiliate that pamper.
If all effort of imagination would not be sufficient to represent Christ in tails, there is no
reasoning which can convince us that this comedy palace has nothing to do with Gospel.

The plates were taken at the door, hands raised, for the straight people waiter made in this
pious occasion. Forming chain, ladies and gentle men were going to the very hands of the Kings,
who presented them to the poor air of kindness and courtesy, the only sympathetic note in that
picture theatrical farce. But the unhappy not eat, if they were eating had a great hurry to
see. Probably his clumsy hands could not remember how it carries food to the mouth. Rations
placed on the table, a servant was caught them and put in two baskets that had every poor behind
from his seat. Shortly afterwards, when real people and the greatness left the room, out those
with her basket, and the chambers of the pastries were waiting innkeepers Madrid or other unique
merchants to buy everything for a few dollars.

The duration of the food, the gracious spectators did not stop his
talk talkative.

Mary Egyptian, would have liked to be down, with great dress tail, passing trays. One of the
Lantigua would venture to argue that this was a comedy misrepresented, and again only was fixed
in the luxury of costumes and uniforms.

- Look, look my mom. Do you see her dress peach? It is next to Mr. Fish, talking with him.

- Yes ... now look at the ceiling ... Well know we're here. And D. Francisco also see, there
... along the steward of the week. Next to my mom ...

- What a beautiful marquise with mauve skirt and cloak!

... Ah, Dona Tula Dona Tula ... if you look up, if we look ... Here we are ...

- Each ceremony of this is costing my aunt many headaches and much trouble, because know the recommendations
it receives ... For twenty-four poor, there are three hundred recommendations.

Every day letters and the Marchioness recaditos or countess.


That is the way the Anemone obtains its food. As soon as the feelers get hold of a small animal
they carry it to the opening of a tube in the centre. This is the mouth, leading to the stomach.
Very often the feelers, with their victim, are tucked away into the stomach, and the feelers
do not appear again for some time. Is not this a strange way of eating!

Much stranger still is the way in which the food is held, and made so helpless that it cannot
escape. On the skin of the Anemone there are many thousands of very tiny pockets, or cells.
Each cell contains a fine thread with a poisoned barb at the tip, The thread is packed away
in the cell, coiled up like the spring of a watch. As soon as anything presses against the
cells they shoot out their threads. Thus the tips of many poisoned threads enter the skin of
any soft animal which is unlucky enough to touch an Anemone.

If your own skin is tender, these little stinging hairs will irritate it, but not enough to
hurt you. It is different, however, with the small creatures of the sea. They are made quite
helpless when caught by hundreds of these strange threads. We shall find similar poison-threads
in the Jelly-fish; and these, in some cases, can cause us serious illness. You cannot see them
without the aid of a microscope.

All those parts of its food which the Anemone cannot digest, it throws out again. If you feed
an Anemone on raw meat, it tucks the pieces into its mouth, and, some days after, throws out
the hard part of the meat, having taken all the "goodness" from it.

No doubt the Anemones themselves are eaten by other animals in the sea, but many kinds of fish
will not touch them. You may remember that we noticed an Anemone which lived on the stolen
home of the Hermit Crab. The crab lives in the whelk shell, and the Anemone lives on the roof,
as it were. In nearly every ocean, all over the world, these two partners are found, using
the same shell. It is thought that the Anemone lives there for two good reasons. First, the
Hermit moves from place to place; you can see that this would give the Anemone a better chance
of obtaining food. Also, bits of food float to the Anemone when the crab is picking his dinner
to pieces.

The crab seems to like having his strange partner with him. No doubt the Anemone is of some
use to him, or he would at once pull it off. It is thought that the Anemone protects him from
his enemies, the fish. Some of them would swallow the whelk shell, crab and all, but they would
not eat one on which an Anemone was fixed. We are not sure that these reasons are the right
ones. Rosalie thought he tore a piece of his heart when you were among
the ten hard hands with thirst-quenching metal of his friend. But there was no choice. Dona Candida
became very joyful to see Bringas, who said that felt better, although very weak in the head.
The doctor had examined in the morning and prognosis was favorable. Soon regain sight ... y.
.. Even thought he saw something when departed the band ... What was needed was a lot of rest,
patience and take with method and timeliness prescribed medicines.

"Who has come?" - Bringas asked sharply.

- I think it is Mr. Torres - said Candida - which has come to ask you.

- I have head so weak and yet so upset, I thought I heard counting money ... Although not want,
and although my doctor ordered me not to tamper with anything, I
can not provide attention to everything that happens at home.

I can not help. I have the ear alert, and even when I sleep I seem to not escape me no sound.

She
said to him that all diseased brain wisely calls inaction that he must surrender their senses
to indifference and rest, that while he was in bed he had not been to make conversation, and that
even their children would enter the room. This was manifested forming, with a deep sigh, and said
that I needed more patience and strength of will was to suppress
their desire to know everything and give orders.

While this was spoken in the dark bedroom, Rosalie Torres whispered to La Salette. Great as
were the precautions taken to make no noise of money to have twenty hard silver, tin tin was
some slight vibrating in the room and spread throughout the house in faint waves to reach the ear
subtle Bringas. Torres was most affected by the disease Your friend, expressed the hope that
it was not anything serious ... The bookkeeper Mompous had a similar attack in the light. "Nothing,
that being one day write, he was blind ... At first thought it was drop serene, but ten days of
sale and some medicines was good, though always delicate.

In the bathrooms are finished fifth ...». cure Bye the above so happy to take your money as
afflicted by the misfortune of D. Francisco.

A Isabelita, which was sad, concerned and not wanting to eat, she was sent home from Candida
to place him there all day playing with Irene and other girls in
the neighborhood.

Alfonsin was to school, and Paquito, whom her father's illness was very sad, did not leave the
house and wanted a bite to eat at lunch. Candida was the only person who was there a regular appetite.

"We
need food, even making an effort - said that of Bringas -. Do not
let you go well.

We must take strength to watch and work and take care all ... I also I have wanted, but I domain,
daughter, and as per requirement, because it is necessary. "

Shortly after our friend received a esquelita of Miracles in telling him that everything was
finally settled satisfactorily, and that waiting for the night. The letter breathed joy and satisfaction.

"This
poor Miracles do not know what is happening to us breaking ...-- Rosalie said the letter -.
Poor I beg you not to miss this night.

Son, go there and give it a moment account of this disaster ... Look, you go through the return
home of Fish and Carolina also whole ... Ah, she has fault, with their hair works. What a grotesque
woman !...».

The seamstress was that day, but the lady saying goodbye was not Mary Magdalene to taffeta,
to return next week. In the afternoon was also Milagros, who felt not have known much before
the event to be flying to console his friend. His grief sincere was not a party to conceal the
satisfaction of the lien for the successful settlement of their conflict metal at the critical
day. How and how he had made the arrangement, I would say later, it was not intrude on the occasion
of things that did not care ... "And the doctor say? ". The excellent lady expected that blindness
was an uneasiness a few days.

Ask God to heal the man as well, that model of parents ... "How you feel you can not come tonight
to my house ... It'll be the meeting very bright, and as for the buffet will be most wonderful
... Ya, ya I'll tell you how ... There for a while. "

Bidding farewell at the door, could not repress some very spontaneous outbursts of his passion dominant.
As they say a secret of importance, told her friend that that would evening dress with a hint
of white muslin scarf, lilac, which had placed inset and a jersey Watteau ... At the last minute
had been arranged as a T-shirt he was sent to Paris to San Salomó
... I thought her hair combed up, wavy large braid around the head
and long locks behind ... 'Well, not you mood to hear such rubbish
... Bye bye ... Tomorrow I will come to know and follow our D. Francisco
and counting, counting ...».

Bringas, they all found out, he told his wife:

"I've heard your whispers with Tellería at the door.

What about?

Have you dropped a fool? ... Poor woman! You truly say that peace is better to eat a piece of
bread with onions, to live as these people, amid great agony coated ... And tonight big mess!
... I swear I have pity them. "

XXII

Encouraged them a lot, because when the band rose a little, contrary to orders medical, perceive
light, though troubled and painful impression. Whatever it was, was the belief that the body was
not lost and that sooner or later regain the use of that precious role. Tickling bothered him a
lot and vision calenturienta of thousands of points of light or faint rays of metal, mobile,
fleeting, Images of the damned and never well execrated hairs retained the sick retina. With However,
its poor man carried my resignation, and asked God what was that you take out the bed, it was
great ordeal for him to be lying on his back, scrambled between the sheets burning. Permitiole
the doctor out of bed after three days, but with strict order not to move from a chair and sit still
and silent, indifferent to everything and do not receive visits deal or anything, still blindfolded,
severely. Arose, and was installed in Gasparini, in a comfortable chair with pillows. Do not
allow anyone to enter to give talk, or obeyed when pleading with
Paquito at night to read him a newspaper.

Respect his departure from domestic issues, little Rosalie was able
to achieve, because although he prided leaving the care of it all,
could not contain his desire for authority, that authority exercised
so well for many years, and each time he remembered the good use he
had made of their duties.

- Rosalie ...

- What is it, son?

- What
principle you wearing today?

- Why do you go about ...?

- I have
smelled beef stew ... Do not deny it ... Now more than ever, we must
appeal the tortillas potatoes, artichokes stuffed with sausage, and
if you press me, to pluck mutton, not forgetting the cheek.

If you trust Candida and charge the purchase soon will leave by doors.

You know that lady squandered two fortunes in comistrajos ... Di one
thing for lunch yesterday put fried hake.

- Is it thought that the
doctor send you to take it.

So he brought.

It later turned out not.

- Say one thing ... Where now is Candida?

- It's in the Furriel. Fear not hear you.

- Why do not you, good way to go to dinner at his house?

I do not like guests perpetual.

One day two, go ...

- But man ... If you knew how much it has helped the poor ...! Tomorrow we'll see. I can not tell
all of a sudden you go ...

- What has brought Prudential Plaza Barley?

- Three pounds of potatoes.

-
At what price?

- A six real.

- Look, dear, do not forget to write
down everything, so when I'm good, can continue to carry account of
the month.

Did you bring oil?

Do not bring wine, for you know that I was not expense now.

The doctor tells me to take a finger of Jerez, but do not buy it. If you send Dona Tula the two
bottles that I promised, I'll take it, otherwise not. If Candidita continue to come through
the morning and it must give the Jicarita of chocolate ... Will I be able to hear?

- No, no one there.

- Well, say you bring to it from the real four, which no doubt will taste like heaven, I I doubt
it at home category other than the three ... I'm thinking the gift that we to ask the doctor, and
that's what we are going to go all our savings. And with that I bring an eye doctor here, that if
he comes to bring, forget it. God does not want to be precise ... Yesterday spoke of taking baths.
I shudder to think. This from the baths is a rant that doctors have invented now to end to squeeze
the juice of the sick poor. In my time there had such baths, so there were no more diseases.
On the contrary, I think he died less people. If you talk about bathrooms, I recommend, daughter,
put a face, as I put it.

The most unique was that neither in that miserable state had to abandon my good accounting Thiers
from home. While in bed, gave his wife the keys to the drawer where he had money, but since it
was raised again wanted to take up the reins of government and exercise that sovereign function,
which is the most obvious attribute domestic authority. Not intimidated by superimposing their
blindness and active spirit to the body condition, rose up from its seat, approached the table,
felt the furniture to avoid tripping, and opened the drawer Take the drawer where the money
was. Tact had acquired in such a short period education, the fineness in his own private vision,
and knew the coins sobarlas weigh them up and only a little. With the chest on his knees, he was
taking and counting to put the race much in the hands of his wife. This was a timid observation:
"You see, my son, spending is higher in these days."

- Well, it
is not.

Dress up ... Ah! Today is Saturday, the twenty-four coal actual ... As for the dancing master,
if he insists on raising more tanks, I do not pay more than what the usual, the rest is on
your own. Do not make me more chicken stock, unless the chef chief send you some. Delete the fourth
chicken or the chicken. Fortunately I've gotten used not to be a man of fuss. The broth cooked with
good bone and marrow is better than nothing.

Rosalia, not to the contrary, all said Amen. After removing the everyday of spending money, Bringas
stayed a while with the chest on his knees, and raising a false bottom the mueblecillo had, took
out an old and kneaded portfolio, whose folds were appearing Some notes of the Bank. With
exquisite touch the recitations, duplicated, them again carefully fold, saying: "This is the five
hundred, these two four thousand ... etc.. " Conocíalos by the order they were posted ... Then
put everything in place with respectful pause, kept the ark, and throwing the key is deposited
in your left pocket vest. The lady drove up to put back into the chair. This door was always closed,
as before scrutinizing his treasure sent Rosalie to cast the door latch to keep out anyone.

A week was no deviation from the day of San Antonio, sad time in the house, without the hasten
sick much. There was better, it is true that he had not worsened which at the end of the day
is always a consolation. There was no doubt that the functions optics were kept intact, ie
D. Francisco saw, but the impression was so painful of light in his eyes, that if for a moment he
lifted the blindfold, the cruel pain and I felt the heat vivid obligábanle to wear it again.
His wife watched him with a dedication and attention worthy of the highest praise. She put the pads
on the eyelids belladonna when the pains were great, and he rubbed his temples with belladonna
and laudanum. Gave him all calomel at night with light doses of opium when he had insomnia, but
nothing put much care as the loving wife admonish him not to ever get up the band; it was the
poor man of genius so alive, since he was a little better and lacked time to take a peek into
the world, as saying.

- By God, man, do not be like ... Look injure you. You are like children. I do not know what
you are worth the reason and years. It tells the doctor that nothing in the world will discover,
and you engaged in so ... Thus do not advance anything. Be patient, that day will come that
you take off the black rag and you look at the sun. But now for some time blind girl, nothing but
blind girl. With a lot of formality, that if you give to open the window, as you say, you amarraré
hands.

- It's that damn band - Brinker said with a sigh - overwhelms me, I weigh like the bastion of
a wall ... It is true that I suffer a lot when the light hurts me, but also impatience, and
especially the dark mortify me horribly ... It is a comfort to see from time to time some little
thing, if only the cavity of the room, with objects deleted confused as it is comforting to see,
and certainly if I mistake not this mischievous retina sick, you're wearing a silk robe ...
Augustine who gave you do not waste you had to cut a dress to the
girl?

Ainda mais, which is now wearing a color and black currant ...

XXIII

Rosalie
heard this from the door.

Puzzled at first, soon recovered his composure, and he laughed:

- Did not I say that silk robe? ... Yes, for silk gowns are ... There you have it you better
head out to the window. See everything changed, everything you see wrong, the tartan you fancy
silk, and the dirty brown color you like currant ...

- Well, I swear ...

- Do not swear, my son, who is sin ... Silk Robes ...!, what else
would I ...

And he went quickly.

In the Camon moved the gown she wore the other very old, it was the generally used ...

- Are you here? - Asked Bringas after waiting a while, during which there was in doubt if his wife
was present or not.

- Here I am ... yes - Rosalie answered hastily answering -.

Baker ... I have not taken today more than three pounds ...

- Well,
I swear ... Will everything I upset?

- Are you still with the gown
?...-- said Rosalie approaching him and asking touch ...

The blind
man touched the fabric, squeezing it between his fingers.

"What is the touch, wool, wool and very lady."

And after another pause, during which she said nothing, Bringas, egged
on by his innate suspicion, he added:

- Because there's you to move
in the short time you were gone ... I seemed to sense noise and rubbing
of fabric ...

- Jesus!

... Hearing is. Maybe. Arranging dressmaker's there dresses Miracles ...

Paquito, who had just entered the street, sat with his father to tell some anecdotes from running
loose and read newspaper. That afternoon was Milagros I also have gone earlier, demonstrating
the health of Mr. D. Interest Francisco truly fraternal.

Some ratitos with him, but soon turned her and her farthest room colleague, who was the Furriel.

Marquise never clearly explained to her friend how she had been this happy arrangement of the famous
tightness of the day 14, but it must have been a very short term loan, so will later. The truth is
that the dinner was esplendidísima, and a celebrated chronicler of classrooms, with that style
is their peculiar eunuch, the praised and exalted to the clouds, using phrases between Spanish
and French do not repeat for fear that, reading them, my good readers
feel in your stomach like effects of tartar emetic.

When I read Don Francisco the relationship of the party lucida, the good man kept repeating: "Who
was the fool, Who would be the fool ...!».

The first few days after the soiree, Milagros seemed very satisfied. Gradually his satisfaction amenguaba,
and around 20 you could note in her sudden attacks of sadness. It was not on 22 but at times
with deep sighs revealed very serious apprehension. In San Juan and the times of calm were
the least, and the Marquise told his friend, very unpleasant secrets. This is scary hearing
such predictions, and saw a cloud coming over the black and stormy pass. Meanwhile, Milagros affections
were so extreme, that Rosalie did not know how thank them. Often speaking of costumes and fashions,
though the taste was not Bringas nothing, while her husband was ill. Fortunately, the doctor announced
a speedy recovery, and to this happy outcome such encouragement took the lady, her spirit began
to book no small a hole in all matters relating to the order of elegant clothing. Freebies
Miracles on that sad occasion he came to the soul.

And note that these were not bargain gifts. One evening, at parting, said, "Do you know the
hat is not going Florian right? You will fall perfectly. I'm going to send. "

And he commanded. Another day spoke of clothing, with more heat. "The goat's hair, which I have
medium do not like. I will send it tomorrow ... As you may be necessarily bathrooms with her husband,
you can use it there ... No, I do thank you. If I can not use ... Also I shall get the fichú
with green velvet ribbon and a felt cap for you fix it easily. For bathrooms, delicious. We also
send flowers, feathers, aigrettes ... I have six drawers full of these things ... Today I took
the gown seamstress currant ... You know you not going very well?

That color looks good on only the thick, the fresh faces ... Do you want? You can make some changes,
widen it a bit, and you will ... The fabric is very rich. "

Here's how they entered the house all these rich garments. Rosalia, as we have said, had no like
at all, and was stored in Kamon. Once, when his mind was calm, hopes for good was the doctor,
he would shut himself up in that piece to be tested gown, dress, hat ... Unable to resist temptation,
decided to Emilia several arrangements, extending a few things, reforming others completely.
At times, yielding to his passionate desire, out of the Carrion and took two or three laps around
the house with all those harness on his body. For this, waiting for the maid and the children were
outside and D. Francis Gasparini locked in with Paquito. More than once he was dressed up to the
admiration Candida, applying the criterion of such an approval or censorship wise. The widow
always touched felt the fury of applause, and to not give in noisy fuss, Rosalia it was reached
with the finger in his mouth, urging her to suppress any expression of astonishment and surprise,
lest some subtle ear perceives the Saleta what happened.

THEN BECOMING Carrion melancholy to modest, and there stripped of those galas, saying with sorrow:
"No I have like at all, not my spirit to these jokes. "

The 26 was when Telleria, no longer able to contain the wave of sadness that overflowed in his
troubled breast, poured it on his good friend, after this pathetic exordium has preserved
the story:

"Also I'll send you the muslin dress with purple overtones ... and all my lace Valenciennes, Alencon
and guipure point. What do I want anything now? The few jewels I
still may be some day for you ... I'm lost, I have no choice but to
hide, enter a convent, run, or what not ... If I could enter a convent,
would be the best ... And if God wanted me to carry, what service
I would! ... But I do not know what I mean ... It astound you see
me so distraught, so upset, I do not look the same ... When you know
...! In the last lesson
we called them bi-valve molluscs, which is only another way of saying "soft-bodied animals
with two shells." Have you ever opened an Oyster? It is a tug-of-war, your skill and strength
against the muscles of the animal inside the tight shells.

Like the Periwinkle and other shell-builders, these creatures owe their strong houses to a
wonderful mantle; but in this case the mantle is in two pieces instead of one. You can imagine
the Periwinkle's mantle as a tube enclosing the animal's body. The mantle of the Mussel or
the Oyster is in two pieces; and each half forms its own shell.

The Snail, and other one-shelled molluscs, poke their heads out of the shell when feeding or
moving. Oysters and their two-shelled cousins cannot do this, for the simple reason that they
have no heads!

In some places you see that the rocks at low tide are covered with Mussels. In dense black
masses they cling to the rocks; and, though heavy waves bang them like so many hammers, they
stick tight. Little Mussels and big ones, they form a mass so thick that baby crabs and other
creatures use them as a hiding-place. On the piers and groynes, and the woodwork of the harbour,
you can see other clusters of Mussels; they are placed where the high tide covers them.

Have you noticed how the Mussel anchors himself? He uses a bunch of threads, like so many cables
or tiny ropes. It is interesting to know how these threads are made.

The Mussel is, as a rule, a stay-at-home, but he can move from place to place if he likes.
He has a long, slender foot which can be pushed out of the shells. Now the threads are fixed
by the foot, just where the Mussel wishes to anchor himself. They are made from a liquid which
forms in the body of the creature. This liquid hardens in the water so that it can be pulled
out into long, fine threads.

Our ordinary Mussels do not make very long threads, but those of some kinds are so long that
they can be woven into silky purses or stockings. The Mussel which makes such long anchor-threads
might be called "the silkworm of the sea."

If the Mussel is such a stay-at-home, how does he find his food? The answer is, that the food
comes to him, brought by the ever-moving water. There are countless specks floating in the
sea, mostly specks of vegetable stuff. These settle on the floor of the sea, just as dust settles
on our house-floors; and the waves wash this "sea-dust" hither and thither. The Mussel or Oyster,
with shells gaping wide open, is bound to get some of this food with the water which enters
the shells.

The Oyster has no "foot," and is fixed in one place nearly all its life. It is an interesting
animal; and one of such value as food, that hundreds of thousands of Oysters are reared in
special "beds," and sent to the market at the proper season. Our British Oysters were famous
even in the time of the Romans; they were carefully packed and sent to Rome, and, at the Roman
feasts, surprising quantities of them were eaten.

Many sea-animals have wonderfully large families, but the Oyster, with its millions and millions
of eggs, beats most of them. Strangely enough, its eggs are not sent into the sea at once,
but are kept between the Oyster's shells until they hatch. Needless to say, these babies are
very small indeed, else their nursery could not contain them all Though so small that thousands
of them together look more like a pinch of dust than anything else, yet each one has two thin
shells; so that, if you eat the parent Oyster, they grate on your teeth like sand. Oysters,
at this time, are "out of season"--that is, unfit for food.

At the right moment, the Oyster gets rid of its numerous family. It opens its shells, then
shuts them rapidly; and, each time this happens, a cloud of young Oysters is puffed out like
smoke. Now these mites must fend for themselves in a sea full of foes.

They have no defence, and countless numbers of them are gobbled up by crabs, anemones, and
others. If this did not happen, the sea would soon be paved with Oysters.

For a time, the baby Oysters--which are known as "spat"--are able to swim here and there. In
rough weather they are driven far into the deeps of the ocean, and lost. The rest of them,
before they have been free for two days, settle on the bed of the sea--sometimes on their own
parents; and there they remain for life. Only a very few out of each million become "grown-ups"--the
rest are eaten by enemies, or smothered in mud or sand. In a year or so they are as big as
half-a-crown. In five years they are fine, fat grown-up Oysters--that is to say, if they have
not been dredged up from their bed and sent to market.

Their shells open and shut like a trap. You may have seen a picture of an inquisitive mouse
trapped by an Oyster. Thinking to have a nice taste of Oyster, the mouse had poked its head
into the open shells, but they were snapped together, and the mouse was firmly held in the trap.

Between the hinge of the two shells there is a pad, which acts like an elastic spring, and
forces the shells open. The Oyster can close them by means of a strong muscle. They are its
only defence, so it closes them at the least hint of danger.

Even these thick walls are sometimes of no avail, as we saw in our talk on "Five-fingered Jack."
We saw how the starfish forces the shells open with the help of its strong tube-feet. The whelk
and his cousins know how to bore a hole in the shell, and suck out the helpless Oyster. Then
there are certain sponges, with the strange habit of making holes in shells, and living in
and on them. Sometimes the Oysters are stifled in their "beds" by other Oysters settling and
growing over them. Thick masses of Mussels may cling to them and suffocate them. And grains
of sand sometimes get in the hinges of their shells, so that they cannot close up the house
when they wish.

Like the other animals which are useful as food, Oysters have been carefully studied and cultivated
by man for many, many years. The story of the Oyster-beds is a long and interesting one.

Oysters feed in rather a strange way. You may have looked inside the shells and seen two delicate
dark-edged fringes, known as the "beard." This fringe is the Oyster's gills or breathing arrangement.
Trace the "beard" as far as the hinge of the shells, and you see the mouth with its white lips.
If you could watch the creature having its dinner, you would see a constant stream of water
flowing over the gills and towards the mouth.

What makes the water move in that way? The gills are covered with very tiny lashes, like little
hairs. There are so many of them that, as they keep moving, they force the water along, over
the gills and towards the mouth. In this way the Oyster breathes the air which is in the water;
but not only that. As we have already noticed, there is a kind of "vegetable dust" in the sea.
This is driven to the Oyster's mouth and swallowed. The Oyster, fixed in its "bed," unable
to hunt for food, thus makes its dinner come to it. What a strange use for a "beard"! It not
only serves as lungs, but also helps the animal to catch its "daily bread"!

Another mollusc used as food is the Cockle, and its shell is one of the commonest found along
the shore, especially near sandy places. Not to be litter and nothing else.

Farewell, ungrateful (Exit)

EUMORFO .-- Nor I am resigned to be a butterfly unintelligent, especially
when out of love I had already put yours to study philosophy.

Infamous Goodbye!

(Exit)

SCENE XI.

Asclepigenia, Proclus.

Mulch and butterfly .-- Asclepigenia leave me. Do I abandon you too, Proclus mine?

PROCLEAN .-- I confess that my soul is shattered. Maybe I would do well to escape from your side
forever, but there is a force that keeps me close to you. In vain I wanted to spiritualize,
sanctify the ancient civilization, cheerful and fond of beauty, but light. No success, however,
to divorce her. I am of her. I'm hopelessly yours. The embarrassing and hard disappointment not
kill the love of my heart to demolish the entire philosophical edifice with so much zeal and
I had raised arrogance. I figure that falls on me the just punishment
of pride spirit. The spirit turned away with scorn of nature, wanted
to rise atop the intelligence and facts; struggled to move beyond
being itself, aspired to be confused with the immutable principle
of all being. The mystical union, that I am therefore proud, was not
illusion definitely unhealthy. The indefinable principle of being,
which I thought to join, and which all claimed to be denied, was not:
it was nothing. My supposed identification with death he was selfish.
No death was generous of him who, loving life, knows how to give for
the triumph of a noble idea, for their country, for the happiness
of the beloved. Chalk, sandstone, or oak, it is all the same to the Piddock,
which rasps them away with its file. When the points of this strange instrument are worn out
with all this hard wear, a new set takes their place. 

EUMORFO .-- That same repeat myself. How could you sink into the center
of the earth?

Inicua .-- CREMATURGO! We were fooling everyone.

EUMORFO .-- This
goes from dark brown. Three at the same time!

CREMATURGO .-- What
can you claim for yourself? Why is the Oyster sometimes unfit for use as food?

