Every day the commission of bishops came and questioned Joan about her Voices and her mission,
and then went to the King with their report. These pryings accomplished but little. She told
as much as she considered advisable, and kept the rest to herself. Both threats and trickeries
were wasted upon her. She did not care for the threats, and the traps caught nothing. She was
perfectly frank and childlike about these things. She knew the bishops were sent by the King,
that their questions were the King's questions, and that by all law and custom a King's questions
must be answered; yet she told the King in her naive way at his own table one day that she
answered only such of those questions as suited her.

The bishops finally concluded that they couldn't tell whether Joan was sent by God or not.
They were cautious, you see. There were two powerful parties at Court; therefore to make a
decision either way would infallibly embroil them with one of those parties; so it seemed to
them wisest to roost on the fence and shift the burden to other shoulders. And that is what
they did. They made final report that Joan's case was beyond their powers, and recommended
that it be put into the hands of the learned and illustrious doctors of the University of Poitiers.
Then they retired from the field, leaving behind them this little item of testimony, wrung
from them by Joan's wise reticence: they said she was a "gentle and simple little shepherdess,
very candid, but not given to talking."

It was quite true—in their case. But if they could have looked back and seen her with us in
the happy pastures of Domremy, they would have perceived that she had a tongue that could go
fast enough when no harm could come of her words.

So we traveled to Poitiers, to endure there three weeks of tedious delay while this poor child
was being daily questioned and badgered before a great bench of—what? Military experts?—since
what she had come to apply for was an army and the privilege of leading it to battle against
the enemies of France. Oh no; it was a great bench of priests and monks—profoundly leaned and
astute casuists—renowned professors of theology! Instead of setting a military commission to
find out if this valorous little soldier could win victories, they set a company of holy hair-splitters
and phrase-mongers to work to find out if the soldier was sound in her piety and had no doctrinal
leaks. The rats were devouring the house, but instead of examining the cat's teeth and claws,
they only concerned themselves to find out if it was a holy cat. If it was a pious cat, a moral
cat, all right, never mind about the other capacities, they were of no consequence.

Joan was as sweetly self-possessed and tranquil before this grim tribunal, with its robed celebrities,
its solemn state and imposing ceremonials, as if she were but a spectator and not herself on
trial. She sat there, solitary on her bench, untroubled, and disconcerted the science of the
sages with her sublime ignorance—an ignorance which was a fortress; arts, wiles, the learning
drawn from books, and all like missiles rebounded from its unconscious masonry and fell to
the ground harmless; they could not dislodge the garrison which was within—Joan's serene great
heart and spirit, the guards and keepers of her mission.

