'I hope to spoil this sport,' says I to Captain Fagan, in a great rage, 'and trust to see this
sword of mine in yonder big bully's body.'

'Oh! it's with pistols we fight,' replied Mr. Fagan. 'You are no match for Quin with the sword.'

'I'll match any man with the sword,' said I.

'But swords are to-day impossible; Captain Quin is--is lame. He knocked his knee against the
swinging park-gate last night, as he was riding home, and can scarce move it now.'

'Not against Castle Brady gate,' says I: 'that has been off the hinges these ten years.' On
which Fagan said it must have been some other gate, and repeated what he had said to Mr. Quin
and my cousins, when, on alighting from our horses, we joined and saluted those gentlemen. It seemed almost impossible in the aboard vessels
had, but had hopes that we send the help of land it was evident that the crew of a ship wrecked
just bivouacked in it, and no could be far one of the sloops of war whose departure for such
cases should have naval authority provisions of Cadiz ... The Lightning got new shots, and we
expect relief with the greatest impatience, because if not come soon, all would perish with
the ship. This unhappy invalid, whose fund was open to running aground, threatened to break
apart by their own seizures, and could not take the time, the nails unhinged some of its frames,
we would be at the mercy of the waves, without more support than they gave us the disordered
wreck.

The ground could not help us, but God wanted me to hear a cannon fire alarm sloop that had been
at sea from Chipiona, and we came over the bow, keeping a good distance. Since its large mainsail
sighted we secure our salvation, and Ray commander gave orders for the transfer is verified
without trampling on such dangerous times.

My original intention when I saw that it was transhipped, was run alongside the two people there
interested me: the gentleman Malespina and Martial, both injured, but the second was not serious.
I found the artillery officer in pretty bad shape, and said to those around him:

"I do not move, let me die here."

Marcial had been carried on deck, and lay on the ground with such prostration and despondency real
fear that inspired me his face.

He looked up as I approached him, and taking me hand, said in an agitated voice:

"Gabrielillo, forsake me not .-- A land! Everyone is going to land! "I exclaimed trying to revive;
but he shook his head with a sad countenance, seemed to portend misfortune.

I

tried to help to get up, but after the first effort, his body turned fell lifeless, and finally said:
"I can not."

The bandages from his wound had been dropped, and the predicament that disorder found no who implement
them again.

I cured him as I could, consoling words of hope and even tried to laugh, ridiculing their looks,
to see if he thus revived. But poor old man did not open his lips, bent his head rather gloomily,
insensitive my jokes as well as my consolation.

Busy on this, I did not realize he had begun boarding the boats.

Most of the first that they were dropped D. José María Malespina and his son. My first impulse
was to go after them following the orders of my master, but the image of the sailor wounded and
left stopped me. Malespina not need me, while Marcial, almost as though dead, shook with his icy
hand of mine, saying: "Gabriel, do not abandon me."

The boats docked hard, but despite this, once transhipped the wounded, embarkation was hard
because the sailors were rushing into them sliding down a rope or by jumping to his feet. Many
were cast into the water to reach by swimming. In my imagination crossed a terrible problem
the idea of ​​which of these two procedures to employ save. There was no time to lose, because the
beam is disrupted, nearly all the stern was sunk, and outbreaks of
the beams and half-rotten timbers announced that it mole that would
soon cease to be a boat.

Everyone ran swiftly toward the boat, and the sloop, which was kept at a distance, maneuvering
ability to resist the sea, I gathered. The boats soon returned empty, but were not slow to fill
again.

I watched the neglect that was half-man, and went crying and stifled some sailors, asking them to
save Marcial loaded. But Hart did save them to himself. In a moment of desperation I tried myself
to echármele in tow, but my barely managed to boost flagging strength of his arms ground unconscious.
I ran across the deck looking for a kind soul, and some were about
to yield to my entreaties, but the danger distracted them such a good
thought.

To understand this inhuman cruelty, we must have found in trances
so terrible: the feeling and love disappear before the instinct conservation
being completely dominates, which equates to a beast sometimes.

"Oh, the wicked do not want to save, Marcial! - Exclaimed with deep pain.

- Let them - he said -. It does not matter on board than on land. Go away you, run, boy, you leave
here. "

I do not know what more my mind mortified idea: if to stay on board,
which would perish without remedy or leaving out only one unhappy.

Finally, more could the voice of nature that some other force, and
say a few steps to the side.

Retreated to embrace the poor old, and then ran quickly to the point where the last sailors embarked.
Were four when I arrived, I saw that the four had been thrown overboard and swam to the boat,
which was about ten or twelve yards away.

"What about me? - I cried in anguish, seeing that I left -.

I will too, me too! ".

I screamed with all my strength, but did not hear me or would not listen to me. Despite the
darkness, I saw the boat, I saw them climb it, but this operation could only be seen by the eye. I
started to throw the water to follow the same fate, but in the instant
that my will is determined in this resolution, my eyes stopped seeing
boat sailors, and before me there was nothing but the grim darkness
of the water.

All means of salvation was gone. I turned my eyes to all sides, and saw nothing but the waves that
shook the remains of the ship, in heaven or a star on the coast or
a light.

The sloop had gone well.

Under my feet, kicked in anger, the hull Beam is broken into pieces, and only kept together
and complete the bow, with cover full of debris. I was on a raft report that at times threatened
to unravel.

Seeing me in such a situation, I ran Marcial saying

"I have left, have left us!".

The old man rose with great difficulty, leaning on his hand, lifted
his head and walked with his troubled view the gloomy space around us.

"Nothing! - Said -; not see anything. Or boats, no land, no lights, no cost. Not again. "

In saying this, a terrible cracking underfoot sounded deep in the cockpit of bow, and completely
flooded.

The citadel was bent violently from one side, and it was necessary I'll get us strongly to
the base of the meter to avoid falling into the water. The apartment we missing, the last remnant
of the Lightning would be swallowed by the waves.

But as hope is not never leave, I still thought it possible that
this situation will last until dawn without worse, and very comforting
to see that the ratchet pole was still standing.

In order firm to ride him when the town had just sinking, the tree looked as proud floating ragged
pieces of ropes and sails, and resisting, the shaggy giants despair asking for mercy to heaven.

Marcial
was dropped on the deck, and then said:

"There is no hope, Gabrielillo. Nor do they want to return, or the
sea would leave if they tried.

Because God wants it, here we both die. For me nothing matters to me: I am an old and no good
damn thing ... But you ... you're a kid, y. ..

"

In saying that his voice became unintelligible by emotion and hoarseness. Shortly after I heard
clearly these words:

"You have no sins, because you're a child. But I ... Well, when you die and ... going to say ... well,
the way a dog or cat does not need a priest to come and give you solution, but it is more than enough
to understand oneself with God. Have not you heard that? ".

I do not know what I said, I think I said anything, and I began to mourn inconsolably.

"Courage, Gabrielillo - continued -. The man must be a man, and now is when you know who has a soul
and who is wrong. You have no sins, but I do. They say when you die and no priest to whom
confession is, to say what is in consciousness at first found. As I say, Gabrielillo, I confess
to you, and I'll tell my sins and God has heard me is behind you, and you will forgive me. "

Dumb by terror and by the solemn words he had just heard, I hugged the old man who continued as
follows:

"Well I say that I've always been a Catholic Christian, Postol, Roman, and have always been and I
am devoted to the Virgen del Carmen, whom I call to my aid at this time, and I also say that,
twenty years ago I have not confessed and received Communion, it
was not for me but for the sake of damn service, and it always goes
one left for next Sunday.

But now I regret not having done so, and I say, and declare, and perjury, that I love God and
the Virgin and all the saints, and that everything they punished has offended me, because if
I confessed and took communion this year was for that of the damned
casacones, which made me go to sea when proeto had to comply with
the Church.

I have never stolen or tip of a pin, nor have I told more lies than
any other for that joke.

Of the clubs that gave my wife does thirty years, I'm sorry, but I think it were given, because
it was bad the churros, and with a genius more than a scorpion lapilli. I have not missed not
so much to what rules Ordinance, not hate anyone but the casacones, who had wanted to see
action hash, but they say that we are all children of God, I forgive them, and themselves forgive
the French, who have brought us this war. I say no more, because I think I'm going to full
sail. I love God and I am calm.

Gabrielillo, Just take me, and apriétate well against me. You have no sins, and you'll walk finiqueleando
with heavenly angels. Better to die at your age that live in this world dogged ... With that mind,
boy, that this is over. The water rises, and the Lightning is gone forever. The death of drowning
is very good: do not panic ... Just take me. Within a short time we will be free of grief, I
give account to God for my peccadilloes, and you happy as a lark
dancing through the sky, which is carpeted with stars, and there seems
that happiness is never finished, because is eternal, which is like
"the other, tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow and the next and always
..."

He could not talk anymore. I grabbed tightly to the body of Middle-man. A violent coup Tues struck
the bow of the ship, and felt the scourge of water on my back. I closed my eyes and I thought
of God. At the same moment I lost all feeling, and did not know what happened.

-XVI-

Again, do not know when my spirit dimly illuminate the notion of life, I felt a cold intense,
and only this accident I broke the very existence, since no memory of the past kept my mind could
not take care of my new situation. When my ideas were clarified and lethargy faded from my senses,
I found myself lying on the beach. Some men were all around me, watching with interest. The
first thing I heard was: "Poor ...!, and regains consciousness."

I slowly returning to life, and with it the memory of the past. I remembered Martial and I think
the first words were articulated by my lips to ask him. No could answer. Among those around me recognized
some sailors from the Lightning, I asked by Half-man, and all agreed
that had perished.

Then I wanted to find out how I had saved, but neither gave me reason.

Diéronme not know what to drink, I was taken to a nearby house, where, by the fire, and care
an old, my health, but not strength.

Then they told me that having gone another sloop to recognize the remains of the Lightning,
and a French ship that ran the same fate, I found with Marcial, and could save my life. My companion
was dying dead. I also knew that the journey of the shipwreck to the shore had died some unhappy.

I
wanted to know what had become of Malespina, and no one gave me reason for the father or the
son. Asked by the Santa Ana, and they said they had arrived safely to Cadiz, on whose story decided
to immediately get on track to meet my master.

I was a pretty distance from Cadiz, on the coast that corresponds to the right bank of the Guadalquivir.
Needed, Therefore, to march immediately to go as soon as possible so long project. I waited
two days to get over, and at last, accompanied by a sailor who had the same way, I set out
to Sanlúcar. On the morning of 27 remember that cross the river, and then continue our journey
on foot to leave the coast. As the sailor who accompanied me was hearty and happy, the trip
was as enjoyable as I could expect, given the situation my spirit, even despondent over the
death of Marcial and the last scenes that I witnessed on board. Along the way we fight and mingling
on the wrecks that happened.

"Good sailor was half-man -" my traveling companion -. But who put him out to sea with a cargo
of more than sixty years?

Good employee is to have had.

- He was a brave sailor - I said -, and so fond of war, nor their
ailments will deterred when he tried to come to the square.

- Because
of this I say goodbye - continued the sailor -.

I do not want more battles at sea. El Rey underpaid, and then if you become a lame or crippled,
give you good night, and if you've seen I do not remember. It seems incredible that the King
case so badly that they serve. What do you think? Most ship commanders who have broken the 21,
not many months ago collect their pay. Last year was in Cadiz a captain who, not knowing how to stay
and support their children, began to serve in an inn.

His friends found him, though he tried to hide his misery, and finally succeeded him from such a
vile state.

This does not happen on any nation in the world, and then scares
we overcome the English!

Well, I say nothing of the weapons. The arsenals are empty, and calling for more money to Madrid,
or one quarter. Truth is that all the treasures of King used to pay salaries to the lords of the
Court, and between them the most is eating Prince of Peace, which brings together 40,000 Durazo
as Counsellor of State, Secretary of State, as Captain General and as Sergeant Major of guards
... I said, I will not serve the King. At home I'm going with my wife and my children because
I have met, and within a few days I have to give the license.

- Well, you can not complain, my friend, if you had to go in the Ray, a ship that just came
in action.

- I was not in the Ray, but in the Bahamas, which was undoubtedly
the best and vessels longer fight.

- Has been arrested, and their
commander was killed, if I remember correctly.

- That was - answered
-. And I still feel like I mourn when I think of Don Dionisio Alcalá
Galiano, mightiest army Brig. That's right: had a strong temper and
would not allow the smallest failure, but its much rigor force us
to love him more, because the captain is fear for severe if accompanied
severity justice, commands respect, and, finally, conquers the affection
of the people. You can also say that another gentleman, and more generous
that D. Dionisio Alcalá Galiano was not born in the world. So when
I wanted to give away friends, not beat around the bush, and once
in Havana spent ten thousand dollars in a treat that gave aboard his
ship.

- I also heard it was very wise man sailing.

- In sailing?
Merlin knew more than all the doctors of the Church. If you had done
a host of maps and discovered that I do not know what lands are back
in hell! And men and send them into battle to perish like a boy! I'll
tell you what happened in the Bahamas. Since the battle began, D.
Dionisio Alcalá Galiano knew we had to lose, because that damn tack
round ... We were in the reservation and stayed in the queue. Nelson,
who was no frog, saw our line and said: "For if short by two different
points, and I take them between two fires, I can not escape or Navy
as well. " So did the damn, and as our line was so long, head I could
not go to the aid of the tail [6]. We defeated parties, attacking
in two strong columns wedge ready mode, which is, say, the way to
combat wearing the captain Moor Alexander the Great, and Napoleon
also used today say. But
I posed him, by asking WHICH of the Redmonds he knew, for I had never heard his name in our
family. He said he knew the Redmonds of Redmondstown. 

GOPA .-- The goal is to walk for my mind's eye dark as the abyss. As the abyss, it is something
that attracts me and that attracts me. Not penetrate, however, which can If this is so, but the
motives which lead you to it are generous, admirable, worthy of your soul. Siddhartha mine, even
if it were wrong direction you lead, the momentum is so noble that I launched it, which I feel
it with pride to future generations for centuries and centuries shall bless and ensalzarte as the
most glorious of men. Thousand tribes, nations and people will follow your footsteps and learn
your teachings. For my wife's love, for love I have for our son, I would oppose your business
and keep you by my side, but love of your glory, which will reflect on me and your son, I do
not stop moving your game, although the in my power to prevent it. Go, but take me with you.
Let me first share your work and then your success.

Siddhartha .-- Can not be. I must go alone.

GOPA .-- My heart gets rid of pain, but I devoutly resigned. And when, my darling, has to be your
game?

Siddhartha .-- At the moment, oh Iksvacú beautiful granddaughter! We are in the middle of the
night. Mira the clear sky.

Do you see that light shining in the East? It's my star, which stands for enlighten and guide
me. Chandac, my squire, has harnessed the horses. Those who keep Capilavastu eastern door, where
my peers and star, are earned and leave me leave. Rest in peace,
oh Gopa!

GOPA .-- Oh lord my soul! Your slave for you groan abandoned
long as I live. If not it is repugnant, and not to the beloved woman,
the last favor granted to the mother of your child. Sella my face
with your lips. I told all the stories of the nobility I had ever
heard from my mother, and some that, perhaps, I had invented; and ought to have been aware
that my host was an impostor himself, as he did not find out my own blunders and misstatements. We speak of the disposition of the fable and characters.

Imagine,
for a moment that Faust sees Marguerite and feel in love with her
before to rejuvenate, that for the sake of Margarita, a pair of ambition
and desire of pleasures makes the covenant; what then happens, it
happens the same way, and after the cruel death of Margarita, Faust
cries, repent, do penance, mocking Mephistopheles and goes to heaven.

So the legend would have it all in a single tragedy and not two. The work thus regularly win
and unity, but lost in grandeur. It was necessary, therefore, that the love of a woman by cute
and innocent it was, would not the main reason that wise as large as Faust devilish that way.
And it was necessary that the first tragedy and should give presuppose things and prepare the
second, leaving not a few loose ends related then each other. Do not we look now at these ends.

Isolated
the fable of the loves of Faust and Marguerite, disposition and development deserve more praise
than censure. Faust, with all the ardor and impetuosity of his youth renewed passion the simple
and beautiful girl, and want to achieve soon, without hindrance or daunt him reflect on bad
consequences. Mephistopheles, out of the jewelry takes this to Margarita, just uses more resources
to aid seduction, which could be used a list of our old servant swashbuckling
comedy.

That is how it should be. If Fausto love that inspires some artifice or prestige intervene diabolical
beauty this love, most of his poetry, and even further under, redeeming and sanctifying would vanish.
The birth of this love unfold and reach its climax in the soul Margarita innocent, are made
merely human, profoundly observed in reality and then with higher beauty expressed in the dramatic
fiction. The simplicity and naturalness language and the precision and concision of Goethe's
style, where no strike, where there redundancy, or vain pomp, nor false and overloaded lyricism,
giving everything he says Margarita seductive charm. This charm is the mystery of Margaret,
from the opening scenes, purchase such a life and stand out with such truth of the picture and
the soul of a poet who creates, who has self, and is recorded in a wide indelible memory as
if it had existed.

His mother does not appear. Goethe has the good sense not dejárnosla see, but his mother exists.
Not like in our old comedies, where there is almost never a mother. Instead of the mother puts the
poet to a very funny, and well characterized: a neighbor, and years, vulgar, fond of talking, devoted
false, and other bad qualities that make it suitable for mediate any gallant intrigue. Mephistopheles
dialogs with Martha, that's the name this woman, have great comic
force: now when Mephistopheles brings the news of Martha death of
her husband, now when the compliment and love.

Martha in the garden look and speak Faust and Marguerite. Margarita is now captive, wounded in the
heart, fired by an irresistible and inexhaustible affection.

This is followed by a beautiful soliloquy of Faust in a forest. Faust hesitates. Proud to be
loved, despite the violent burning of the senses, thinks, for the
love that infuses Margarita, that they should reject it, in order
not to lose it and cheat.

Know that you can only give a skeptical and tired soul in exchange for his soul youthful and pure.
Intervention is necessary telling the devil to get to Faust of his
hesitation.

Mephistopheles makes this that evil is already done, which devours love and the soul of Marguerite,
and not satisfied, then of having power, would be the greatest cruelty.


Then we went home to Mrs. Fitzsimons, who drove out in her chair to the Phoenix Park, where
a review was, and where numbers of the young gentry were round about her; to all of whom she
presented me as her preserver of the day before. Those who were to move in with one or the other wall street were
usually black Africa, because the occupation despised native, sitting in dwarf leather chairs
with a table in front and on the hearth Buren aside. In the slab of dark stone that tended with
a wooden spoon a portion of wet corn flour that cake was a three or four ounces, and when it was
golden brown with the heat of Buren, sprinkled it over a bit of butter cows, and so warm and juicy
the offered for sale to the passer at the rate of silver through the pair. Many girls were not
unless the coach stop and compare the tortillas in San Rafael, as termed, hot still the Indian
Buren, as it seems, was like they knew better.

The occasion of all this bustle and movement was the feast of San Rafael, which falls on 24 October,
the celebration had begun, as already indicated, nine days earlier. In each One of them said
a low mass in the early hours of the morning Mass and sermon ten to twelve hours to save the
day before. During the ninth and stayed clear circular the Blessed Sacrament, and that is why the church
never seemed empty of the faithful who came from all over the neighborhood to earn a plenary
indulgence.

As stated above, small Church of the Holy Guardian Angel is seated in the narrow plain Peñapobre,
species of reef of small extent, but quite high compared to the general plane of the city. To climb it
was, and is now two steps dark, coarse stone, with rolling hills of the same: one that starts
from the bottom of the street Barracks, the other descending to the
de Compostela, which is the longest and slope.

On reaching the top of the plateau, which also has stone ledge, is on the floor Temple, whose
only craft in performance days, as of now it is discovered entire whole - the main altar in the background,
wooden altarpiece of two bodies - more than two side doors, almost hidden behind the forest of white
candles, gold and silver candlesticks, pots of artificial flowers and a profusion of shiny cardboard.
A left and right two altarpieces were less frills, the average of the front door and side and
the other half two altarpieces, each of whom is a saint venerated, usually wood carving, a
niche enclosed in glass. The roof-shaped stand, leaving bare the timbers of the frame which was
covered with red tiles, and above the arch, within which was a small choir, rose the square tower
stone up three bodies drop. To the west, behind the body church, was the sacristy, the priest's
room at once, and another stone staircase less spacious than the front, giving exit to the street
Egido, sort of dead deep, twisted and uneven that runs along the walls of houses and the ramparts
surrounding the city for the land. The patio, front, has a boardwalk masonry wall mode roof.
Because at that pier in the morning we referring to the second or third in the ninth for San
Rafael, several black carpenters were entertained to raise with pine boards, painted stone edge,
something resembling the battlements of a chateau, having already planted the flagpole and almost finished
the work principal.

The students had taken over the entire steep slope of steps and plateaus,
Leonardo Gamboa at the top, with his cane on his shoulder running
the operation, and no person was up by them some, or passing in the
street especially women, in carriages or on foot, without them having
them something to tell him yet.

 At play
I had lost, it is true, a couple of pieces; but seeing that every one round about me played
upon honour and gave their bills, I, of course, preferred that medium to the payment of ready
money, and when I lost paid on account. What I aspire to cultivate love Cecilia with Leonardo Gamboa?
He was a white man from a wealthy family, related to the first Havana, studying for a lawyer,
in case of marriage, it would certainly with a lower-class girl, whose name alone is enough to indicate
the darkness of her origin, and whose mixed blood was discovered in his wavy hair and the
tan color his face. Her incomparable beauty was thus a relative quality, which perhaps the only
had to win over the hearts of men, but that title was not paid to leave it in the area where
he was born and raised to one in which whites turned a country of slaves. Perhaps some less
beautiful than her and more mixed blood, rubbed at that time with the cream of Havana society, and
even had titles of nobility; but they obscure or conceal their origin or had been born and had grown
in abundance; and you know that gold purify the blood more turbid and covers the major defects,
physical and moral.

But these reflections, natural look, we are sure that ever occupied
the mind Cecilia.

Loved by a spontaneous feeling of his fiery nature and only saw in cute white girl lover, many
properties superior to all of their class, could aspire to his heart and his favors. In the
shade of white, it was illegal their union, believed and hoped Cecilia up forever, leaving
the humble sphere in which he had born, if not her, her children. Married to a mulatto, fall
by their own estimation and that of their peers, because these are the aberrations of any company
incorporated as Cuban.

The coachman, meanwhile, down the street at a trot O'Reilly took that
of Cuba, crossed diagonally the square of Santa Clara, then turned
to the streets of San Ignacio, and without a step ahead stopped the
race at the door of the house that had been designated.

This was a proof that the black coachman did not deserve the gross dictation gave Leonardo to enter the
wheel. Was not done to stop it, when a student jumped onto the sidewalk and at the same rate tossed
a coin coachman. She welcomed him into the air, took her into his eyes, saw that it was a quarter
columnar, crossed with her, spurred, and he continued, saying: - Many health, child.

CHAPTER XI

In my country under the sky desnublado Could not resolve to be a slave,
not consent to everything in nature was less noble and happy man.

     
     JOSE MARIA HEREDIA
     
     Emilia.
     

         Leonardo thought he noticed when he jumped from the wheel to the curb,
a soldier, in full uniform, walking rapidly toward the Plaza Vieja,
had become separated from the second window from home, and had fallen
at one of a shutter of the same good familiar face of one of her sisters.

     He quickened his step, and indeed, through another wicket the gate
of the hall, she saw her sister Antonia, in the act of raising the
curtain enter the first room, the door into the room.

Upsets him more than they can imagine this unexpected discovery because he was convinced by
tying ropes, not to stay doubt that while he is dallying with the mulatto beyond the neighborhood
of Angel, a master of Spanish army and the clear light of an October morning, she's dallying
here for sister the district of San Francisco. The memory of that pleasant time was enjoyed and
still which hung in his mind brilliant view, was fouled, vanished entirely before the unpleasant
scene at the window of his home.

Of the generation that seek to paint now under the political point of view-moral, and were shown
genuine Leonardo Gamboa and his fellow students, we must repeat that reached very superficial
notions about the situation of his country in the world of ideas and principles. To put it bluntly,
his patriotism was of a Platonist, because not based on a sense of duty, or the knowledge
of one's rights as citizen and as a free man.

The constitutional system that had ruled in Cuba, the first time from 1808 to 1813, the second
from 1821 to 1823, nothing had taught the generation of 1830. For she had passed as a dream,
as things of another world or another country, press freedom, the Militia, frequent exercise
of the right of suffrage, the rallies, agitations and propaganda
of the most exalted, the councils of the Masonic societies, Chairs
Law and Political Economy, the lessons of the Constitution of Father
Varela.

After each of these two brief periods he had spent on the wave of despotism Cuba Metropolitan
and clearing up the ideas and principles so eagerly planted by distinguished teachers and eminent
patriots. Gone were the free newspapers, leaflets and the few books published in two memorable times,
of which, if there was one other copy was in the hands of the bibliographer, who had dual effort
to hide.

Subject to censorship, the press was silent throughout the island since 1824, not deserving that name
the very few newspapers, which are then published in another large population thereof. The
state of siege since then was overwhelmed the country would not agree discussion of the issues
that might be of interest to most people. Serious crime was to try policy in public and private,
to the use of names of people and even things was strictly forbidden.

Past events, as well inside and outside Cuba, attempts at revolution in the latter, the result of
the tremendous struggle for freedom and independence on the continent, all this was buried in the
mystery and oblivion for the general Cubans. The story also captures and saves every appropriate
opportunity for even not been written.

No missing out at one of those who seek and strive militant political for the country to get news
of what was happening around her and could teach to remind people of their duties and their rights.
To that end, among others, the virtuous Father Varela published in Philadelphia El Habanero,
from 1824 to 1826, but the Spanish government declared subversive role and banned their entry
into Cuba.

So that you can ensure that very few copies circulated in it. Later, ie from 1828 to 1830, also
undertook Saco North America in the publication of The Messenger Weekly newspaper political science
and literary which, for the same reasons as above, had little movement in Havana and did not
exercise appreciable influence on the politics. The only thing in that newspaper echoed in the
Havana youth, as mentioned above, was the controversy that his illustrious editor had with the
director of the Botanical Garden in Havana, Ramon de la Sagra, the passionate criticism that
he had made the volume of poems given birth in Toluca, in the year 1828 by the distinguished Tyrtaeus [20]
Cuban José María Heredia.

More and more general influence exerted on the minds of youth the patriotic verses of that celebrated
poet. On all his ode La Estrella de Cuba, October 1823, his letter Emilia, 1824, his sonnet to Don
Tomás Boves. His Hymn of Exile, 1825, caused a lively enthusiasm in Havana, many learned it from
memory and not just repeated it whenever it offered the opportunity
to do so without risk of personal freedom.

But even those newspapers, neither these fiery verses, Magu to overflowing in free and patriotic
ideas, were enough to inspire that feeling of patriotism and freedom that sometimes impels
men to the self-sacrifice, they put the sword in his hand and throws them to conquer their rights.

Were also confusing, if not already sad reminiscences of past conspiracies. In the year 12 only
survived the name of Aponte, [21] head riot of it, because it always painting was offered to an
individual evil or cursed, cried the old: - More bad Aponte! From the year 23 was known by tradition,
Lemus, the head, moaning in a prison of Spain, who had escaped from
Peoli Bethlehem headquarters disguised as a woman, that Ferrety, the
informer, he enjoyed the favor or favors of Government, and that Armona,
the arresting and persecuting of the main conspirators remained only
the head of the gendarmerie captain General Francisco Dionisio Vives.

As rumor had spread over the U.S. government had opposed the invasion Cuba and Puerto Rico
by troops from Mexico and Colombia, and that these results had hanged back in Port au Prince in 1826,
as emissaries of the insurgents, Sanchez and Agüero. [22] But the point had come oblivion and
indifference in the same days we referred to in the preceding pages, it was because of disloyalty to
the accomplices of the conspiracy called the Black Eagle, many of whom were prisoners in barracks
Dragon, the color of the Militia in Castle Point and elsewhere, and
not be cast to see signs of discontent, even of interest in the people.

Also

the Cuban conspirators previous botched attempts, or were still far of the country, or died in
exile, or had warmed the patriotic ardor and wore dark and peaceful life, devoted to repair
the damage that had occurred their health and their wealth, time and the contradictions of
men. It was, therefore, not occupation could be those who had returned to the motherland,
the views and propaganda political projects conceived and cherished during the days of exaltation
and blind faith freedom.

For its part, the Creoles and Spaniards emigrated from the continent
as to correct their behavior cowardly, selfish or backward in the
war for independence, on arrival to Cuba only addressed to distort
the nature of the event, calling the unjust, perverse and of ignoble
motives of the patriotic sacrifices of the revolutionaries, amenguando
their deeds, becoming fiercely to their acts of mere justice and retribution.

To these renegade Republican and patriot was an insurgent, that is, a rebel, an enemy God and
King, the pirate, a pirate or a Muslim, as he called the people to Algerians that by the end
of the last century infested the coasts of the Mediterranean.

The habanero reader, aware of the youth of the time we try to describe, we believe easily if
we say that Gamboa did not care for politics, and even if you happen Once a slave moaned Cuba,
there was in her mind even then, that he or any another Cuban, should
have the means to deliver them.

As Creole began to enter the rustle of the elderly and people studying law, it had formed a state
idea better society and a military government less oppressive to their homeland. However,
although son of a Spanish father, who, being rich and visiting trade in preference of his
countrymen, and felt hatred towards them, much to the military, on whose shoulders, clearly,
rested the factory complex colonial Cuba. There could not therefore make him good blood on
a military blow you dear sister, were so alive before jealousy experienced, and deep was the
hatred he felt for the man as both a soldier and Spanish.

Accordingly, he entered his house sullen. The table was set for lunch, and Leonardo instead of
going in search of his mother, as usual, seeing no one took his cloth jacket and threw the book
at a Asillo class, took off his cloth coat and put on a denim waistcoat of streaks of color. For
a short time was torn between whether it would throw on the bed, which with its freshness
and blue will fly renge invited to stand, or if he went to the balcony, where there were still shadow,
appeared the black Tirso and said: - Child, the lunch is on the table. And he hurried down, sitting
and finding his mother and father. The streets took seat next to the first, who from afar will cast
a loving gaze, as if surprising and had upsetting that he did not submit when he entered the
street. The second not even looked up from the plate to eat fried eggs with tomato sauce, although
right-had not seen the child since the previous day.

Then they were leaving one after another of the sisters of Leonardo
bedrooms, prepared to go outside, and sitting at the table in silence,
as nuns in the refectory.

Each which it occupied in its respective position, ie Rosa with his favorite son to one side the
three daughters of the lady on the other, and Don Candido and the butler in the opposite headers
the table. It was no coincidence, then, but constant and deliberate this distribution, unless
altered by the appearance of a guest with whom he had used performance. Clearly indicated character,
habits and preferences of the family together and especially parents for their children.

Rosa preferences could not be mistaken: all in favor of Leonardo. The Don Candido, if some could
be seen on special occasions, was focused on his oldest daughter Antonia.

He was a businessman, rather than society. With little or no culture had been Cuba still young
in the mountains of Ronda, and indeed flow to force industry and
economy especially the good fortune that had blown into the slave
trade risky the coast of Africa.

Its main traffic in Havana, who served as a stepping stone to climb to the top of the wealth,
was the negotiation of wood and shingle in North America, red brick, bricks and lime of the
country, although the day did not address this unique and personally sonándole better on hearing
the title of farmer who gave his friends, down wit to manufacture sugar, jars, held in the jurisdiction
of Mariel, the coffee Las Mercedes in Guira de Melena, and pasture or meadow of Hoyo Colorado.

By
habit, rather than by nature, was quiet and cold in the treatment
of his family, holding him it isolated the primitive nature of their
occupations and the desire to accumulate money seized his spirit,
after he married a wealthy Creole, and more haughty family of Havana.

Early in his new life had been exemplary conduct, nor worthy guide Leonardo, as he has made to understand
Dona Rosa at the end of Chapter VII. By one and other reason, perhaps because of their ignorance supine
was not concerned with the education of their children, much less than its morality. Both
duties were the responsibility of that discreet lady who, if not
science had, yes the mother instinct and the purest love, with which
it can give better direction to the passions of youth snatched.

Notably in education, charity is the source and the mirror of all virtues.

As ignorant and rude man, was also Don Candido, strange way of scolding their children. We have
seen that when Leonardo was present in the room, not even looked at his face. This was an infallible
sign that still mad at him. Provided that any of them gave cause for complaint, apparently common
thing, punishing him or punish thought, denying the floor for days
and even months in a row.

So that by the father almost never find children the real cause of his anger, the mother in
such cases, always served as a conduit or intermediary to maintain peace and harmony within
the family.

Antonia, the picture of Dona Rosa in the physical, had 22 years of age. Leonardo spent of 20,
and fluctuated between 18 and 17 of her younger sisters, Carmen and Adele. The latter could
happen anywhere for a perfect model of beauty. Possessed all the conditions requiring the Greek
statuary in the person whose statue was carved: good head regular features, symmetrical shapes,
graceful bearing, slender stature, high forehead and eyes fire. With her look like the Venus [23]
Greek rather than one of the Fates, [24] had more resemblance to Don Candido with Rosa. Existed
between the father and daughter a little over what is generally understood
by family resemblance: the same physiognomic expression, the same
spirit, had printed on the face seal their progeny.

Leonardo occupied site in the table opposite her sister Adela, and if the father was before, while
it lasted lunch or dinner, including eyes crossed of intelligence, smiled often argued, in short,
affectionate and fraternal talks with eyes and lips, without uttering a word. That bound the
brothers strong ties of sympathy, it seemed quite obvious. There's one for the other so-called
angel. A be no sibling would have loved, as loved most famous lovers
she has met the world.

In the morning we are talking about did not happen, however, the usual. Leonardo was angry or
sad, or strange and deep concern he dominated the mood, the fact Adela is in vain, which I
used to, he sought his eyes, put his brow and tried to burn the compared with the rays of His
divine eyes, across the table. Never once crossed his eyes, there was to it in his face suddenly
petrified, a trait of affection. The innocent girl came to grieve. "Tell them as angry without
knowing why? What was his beloved brother? Why in the two or three times he was surprised at
her in deaf and mute contemplation, He lowered his eyes suddenly and perfect abstraction or
feigned indifference? Leonardo may not Adela explained clearly and was too young to understand
that it was inadvertently A comparative study of the charming face
of her sister.

What thoughts crossed then your mind? Hard to say, all I can sure as a positive thing it was
in the contemplation of Leonardo more astounded that mental distraction, more Meditation cold
delight, as if he had now discovered her sister's face something we had not noticed before.

It lasted an hour lunch, that long reign at the table as quietly, as just heard another sound
than the silver, no more voice than the asking this or that dish away the bold Tirso, they know our
readers, and a black young and handsome, who, with his arms folded across his chest while waiting
orders, were attentive to the needs of the service. The first, with all that, was mainly men, women
second. But one and another, it was noted, you guessed Don Candido to the thoughts, designated
by preceding the dish with a simple movement eye, for which purpose they kept it yours or the maid
Dolores Tirso, while served to other diners. Woe to them if they expected the wrong order or
the plate I wanted to replace the taste! The punishment did not expect: he threw at the head the
first thing that came into his hands.

The abundance of the food went hand in hand with the variety of dishes. In addition to meat beef
and pork fried, stewed and stewed beef hash was served on a cake of cassava wet, glistening
roast chicken with garlic butter and fried eggs almost drowned in a tomato sauce, cooked rice,
fried plantains also in Luengo and honeyed slices, and salad of watercress and lettuce. After
lunch, they filed a third servant, in shirt shirt, and that the dripping from his clothes looked
like the cook, with a pot of earthenware each hand and began to fill
with coffee and milk, first cup of Don Candido and on the Dona Rosa,
Leonardo, those of his brothers, ending with the Butler, but did not
occupy the last place where a table was head master and grand daughter
higher.

The Butler was only a white servant, and no better than the other servants defined its position
in that house.

The family took the coffee with hot milk as it passed through the dining room toward the street,
our acquaintance, the coachman Aponte. While still in his shirtsleeves, wearing shoes high riding boots
and silver spurs massive. Leading two horses by the bridle harnessed, whose tails were neatly
braided and tied by a cord ends of yarn to a bolt in the shaft of the chair from behind. Upon
entering the hall burst Aponte's partner and without delay opened wide the wide front door,
suspended by weight of chitin rods by silver rings that were bolted to the end and shouting:
- Back!, he took roll to the middle of the street, he turned and pulled him to the curb of your
home.

Once again took the bridle the same horse as before, hit a hard slap in the belly with his left
hand, almost by force put it between rods, and then hung them by the rings on double hooks hanging
from iron the chair, covered by small black cowhide skirts.


When I think that I, the descendant of the kings of Ireland, was threatened with a caning by
a young scoundrel who had just joined from Eton College--when I think that he offered to make
me his footman, and that I did not, on either occasion, murder him! On the first occasion I
burst into tears (I do not care to own it) and had serious thoughts of committing suicide,
so great was my mortification. But my kind friend Fagan came to my aid in the circumstance,
with some very timely consolation. 'My poor boy,' said he, 'you must not take the matter to
heart so. Caning is only a relative disgrace. Young Ensign Fakenham was flogged himself at
Eton School only a month ago: I would lay a wager that his scars are not yet healed. You must
cheer up, my boy; do your duty, be a gentleman, and no serious harm can fall on you.' And I
heard afterwards that my champion had taken Mr. Fakenham very severely to task for this threat,
and said to him that any such proceedings for the future he should consider as an insult to
himself; whereon the young ensign was, for the moment, civil. As for the sergeants, I told
one of them, that if any man struck me, no matter who he might be, or what the penalty, I would
take his life. He is dry and hard with me, I can I
be loving and gentle with him? Come on, say you. Never gives me no chance to show my Sweetheart,
if I tried. But do not talk about the case, turn the page and try something else the other. What
was dad when you married?

- There was something, was pretty, yes, sir. It had a wood workshop in the North, shingle, brick,
cal ... back in the Alameda or Paseo, near the Point. The land on which was also belonged, though
worth little to be very muddy and low. He was also there, where now manufactured home from school
in Buena Vista, a hut. Certainly the last muzzles marked in the left shoulder with the letters
G and B are still some in the mill's Tinaja, I inherited from my father. Candide, in partnership
with Don Pedro White often brings Africa still black. But both the British pursued the issue,
which expeditions lost many more being saved ...

- Imagine, Mom, Leonardo said with much laughter, while lowering his
voice, a male plagiarist Conde become ... the Hut, for example.

What a cute title! - How's Mom?

- What do you mean by that stand out banks? Rosa asked not bother unless surprised.

- Oh, Mama! Do not you know that according to Roman law are those who steal plagiarists men
to sell?

- Ya. In that case, your father is not the real plagiarist, as you say, but Don Pedro Blanco,
who is known from its factory in Hens, on the coast of Guinea, (many times I've heard those names
that I have been printed) is black with trinkets and other things and forwards shipments to
the island Your father takes the need for their farms and the others sold to the planters, because
until recently he has been acting as agent and before White as a
partner, when there was no contraband trafficking in Africa, or tolerated.

For your account at least, has not released but few expeditions. From time to time expected
the return of the brig Speedy. God grant that has not fallen into the clutches of the English!

-
You, unintentionally, are advocating on my behalf.

I said what I said in jest, but it is clear Mom, that under law a crime so that kills the cow
and the that holds the leg.

- Do not give me your principles, your purposes and your Roman laws. And they tell them what
like, the truth is that there is much difference between the behavior of your father and Don
Pedro Blanco. It is there in the land of savages, he is the one who seeks to treatment, he
is the one who captures and forwards for sale in this country so that, if there is it a crime or
guilt, his will in any case of your father. And, while you look away Gamboa do anything bad
or ugly, makes a profit, something to be celebrated, because if receives and sells, as agent, it
is understood, savages, is to baptize them and give them a religion that certainly do not have
on their land.

So if you say so, you know that if the holder, as for now do not
think, not pretty and would lack titles all honorable.

Well, as I said before, this time I will go to excite given your father's bag.

- Why do not you go?

- Why would you tell the truth, that is, he wanted the money to make you a gift.

- Well, so what? He will never deny anything.

- True, but as is so angry with you, I fear I deny it.

- When he is not angry with me, Mom?

That is yours endemic, chronic, better said.

If I go, because I go, if I do not go, because I'm home. Anyway,
enter year and year out and dad is never happy with me.

I was caught between his eyes, Mom, this the truth is plain and simple. Why beating about the bush?
The result is that it does not seem While nothing of what I do or fall apart.

- Not your father's so unjust, nor so lacking in parental love, if you behave, believe that you misbehaved.
Look no further than last night you were in correntón Rule.

What hours you come back?

- "For whom did you know him?

- It matters little canal, but he knows that he was told this morning in the spring of Cavalry.

-
Vamos!

That will not wash. By early spring but do not attend the news Tasajero and sniffing, because this
is their hangout, spending the morning waiting for the signal Morro Courier Spain, Santander
boat or Montevideo, with flour or beef jerky. Such kids do not attend Palace dances Rule. The
storyteller and fall on who was, could not be other than Aponte. I assure you, and pay me
very talkative dog.

- Was not that the informer.

However, had I been, you would hit so bad, for if your father asked him, I know not how could
hide the truth.

- He could say he did not know, he did not hear the bell of the clock
of the Holy Spirit, who ... any thing, unless I came to this or that
hour, I was not here nor there.

He has very loose tongue the Taita Aponte and dad gave him like asking vein. Miracle did not
tell ... But, in a nutshell, what was I doing in Rule last night?

- Do not tell me, I do not know, I guess you did not do anything wrong. The result is Leonardite,
you do not apply to studies that do not advance in anything good or useful, and that time you
had to devote to reading and meditation, you waste on frivolous parties
and as harmful and dangerous raids.

That can not be liked by him, or ... me either, the same thing that I love dearly. Want your father
and I want to study more and unless you walk, have fun, but do not
give in to the dissipation, which is not bad passes nights, you moderate,
..., in short, you behave yourself.

The emotion experienced Rosa deprived of the use of the word, filled with tears her beautiful
eyes.

- You're no good preacher, Leonardo said, perhaps with the intention of distracting their attention,
because you matter too much possession.

- With respect to Aponte, Rosa continued after it had calmed down, I know it is a talker, but
in honor of the truth, I must say that your father knew the time you got back by noise that was
made in the hall with the opening of the door, the carriage entrance and the tramp of horses. With
the silence of the night, every noise is thunder. He awoke, lit a snuff with the tinder-box, looked
at his watch and gave a cry of anger.

I pretended to be asleep.

It was two thirty in the morning ... Still know you in the face of bad night.

There was another brief interval of silence between those two parties, during which Leonardo
esperezó yawned and different times, until he stood up and said:

- I go to sleep ... If you buy the watch, well, if not, it hardly
matters.

He turned and began the ascent of the staircase of his bedroom, step to step, which if you count
the steps or cost you a great effort. The mother, meanwhile, was followed eyes, without saying
another word or move in the chair, but that he lost sight in the
highlands of the stairs, briskly stirred and called loudly: - burst!

A more pressing call, was quick to respond in own person the butler
said in the previous chapter.

It was a short man in body, stocky, dark, round face and very curly
hair, so in appearance and in manner stated resolution and agility.

Although dressed in clean, came in a vest, translucent leagues that came from Asturias, uncommon
type of Spanish then in Havana.

Butler was at Don Candido Gamboa, and whether certain books had not dealt with on the desktop,
as in other committees more in line with their employment.

When he appeared in front of Dona Rosa, was the pen behind ear, and
she said in a tone of command:

- Resale, Gamboa tell you to send
me to twenty ounces.

He was the man and returned promptly with the money order, which took
out the small iron box, under the folder, where there were several
bags stuffed with gold and silver coins.

- Put on the jacket, said
Rosa ounces spilling on the table to count, and now go to the streets
of Lieutenant King, the other door of the pharmacy of St. Augustine
Dubois watches, and buys you the best repeater that has recently received
Geneva.

You say it is for me. Have you heard?

- Yes, ma'am.

- I guess you do not understand clocks.

- I can not
achieve much, they say, but in Gijón, where I was born and raised,
more than one clock, and an uncle, brother of my mother, God rest
his soul, was in the nail, so to says, the mechanism of clocks.

-
Did not say so, Don Meliton, he said to warn against any deception
could practice with you, if you believed that the watch was for you
or someone like that ... "You I mean?

- Ya, ya, I'm aware.

- Listen.

Dubois Emphasize that you watch for me. He knows me and know that it would cost expensive ...

- To you for a ride, "interrupted the steward.

Granted it would cost a fortune face, if that did the very villain.

Too much I know and I know him.

- I do not I have to villain, as you say, but good to be prevented
...

- Because the soldier was never prevented up, again interrupted
the butler, playing thinking their way of love.

- Ah!

Have you put in a thin, as a gift. Do you understand you?

- Take it if you understand! Perfectly.

- Okay. You go

- Flying.

- Do you agree? Gold watch, repetition, Swiss, I mean, Geneva, from the previous Geneva received
by the watchmaker Dubois, who lives on the streets of Lieutenant King, the other door of the
pharmacy of St. Augustine.

- Yes, yes, Dona Rosa. All that I remember and I will present. And in a break ...

- Listen! I limit myself to 18 oz. You want the best repeater, Geneva legitimate regardless.
If more money is needed, you come for him.

- Will be served to Mrs. Rosa literally.

- Ah! Burst! Burst! Come here. The main thing I forgot. Do you do them within the top brands: LGS October.
24, 1830. Do not forget.

In fact, in just over an hour Butler was back and turned over to Dona Rosa a small box, square,
morocco, with gold fillets. No doubt this lady was waiting for him impatient, because take, open,
contemplate for a short time with a kind of joy child up and go into his room, with no further case
of Butler, was all one.

It did not take longer than just using the relationship of the comic scene.

Leonardo on his part, so sure was he that would not get the sun of that day without a new watch came
to decorating his costume in the pocket of his trousers, having laid them on the couch in
front of his bed, he lay quiet, determined to sleep and repair forces broken by fatigue and
lack of sleep last night. Dozed only when the sound of tiny footsteps and clothes of a woman,
came to confirm their hope. It was his mother.

Pretended to be asleep and watched quietly approached the couch, lifted up his pants, put in the
front pocket something round that shone long, hanging from a belt pink and blue silk, forming
water, more than an inch wide and six long, subject the ends by a gold buckle. Smiled with pleasure,
and closed his eyes, to her mother retire upon the persuasion that he had prepared a surprise.

Returning
Rosa pants on the couch, watching the tape of the clock is visible and slide in the pocket
of his waistcoat two ounces left over from the purchase of the former,
he felt that his son had moved in bed.

He started as if he had been making a crime and then, in fact, came
a ray of light in his consciousness of mother vividly recalled the
words of her husband's conversation in the early morning, and felt
a kind repentance.

Something inside her told her that if she did not actually evil,
not be not a well known and their proofs solid tender and loving with
Leonardo when not born of merit made by him, but the spontaneous outpouring
of his heart and indiscreet mother.

     
 Puzzled, including pick up the garment, something to keep it for more
opportune time, and face hence the distress and unpleasantness of
the son, stood still, as transfigured.

He, although brief, was a crowning moment for the sad mother. At last he cast a furtive glance
to the bed, he saw Leonardo naked from the waist up, arms on the pillow and the beautiful head resting
on the palms, chest open and lifted, raising the aspiration and down
on the breath, which the wave does not break, long nose, mouth ajar
to give free passage to the entrance and exit of air, pale countenance
the Sleep and agitation of the day, but full of health and strength,
a sense of pride took over his whole being, changing suddenly and
completely the order of his thoughts.

- Poor! exclaimed in a tone
almost audible.

Why could I deprive him of anything, when in the age to enjoy and have fun? Enjoy and have fun,
because, as you lasting health and the youth, which will come to you, as they have been for
us all the days of trouble and sorrows. The Blessed Virgin, in whom both trust and put all my hope,
will not to hear my prayers. She will protect and serve the good
of the world's dangers.

God make you a saint, son of my heart.

He moved his lips together as a sign of throwing a kiss, and was so creeping like wine.

PART TWO

CHAPTER I

Ossa venientibus later. (Those who arrive late to the banquet gnaw the bones.)

We have to stop for a short time these characters, to deal with others not being inferior braise,
represent our true history minor role. We refer toilet now famous clarinet, José Dolores Pimienta.

To
see him with the needle in his hand sitting on the couch together with other officers to tailor
a low platform, tacking a coat of dark green cloth, still tops or skirts, strength is that
we get to the master tailor Uribe on Wall Street, the gateway immediately the corner of Villegas,
where there was a dry goods store called the Sun

The first of these facilities consisted of an oblong room with three
entries: that of the primitive gate wide and high, and the two windows,
whose gates had been removed.

Against them longitudinally, there was a long narrow table on which were various pieces of
denim, quilted, Arabia, of a genre called nutsedge cotton, satin and fine cloth, all coiled and stacked
at one end. And to the opposite, lying two Mahon fabric pieces, which had already drawn a pair
of pants for men with a sliver of soap ashes.

Behind the table or counter, standing in shirt sleeves, white apron tied to waist, scissors in his right
hand and tossed around the shoulders, as a tape paper folded in half along its length, with stitches
here and there, was the master tailor Uribe, a favorite at the time of the elegant youth of Havana.
Although I would like, I could not deny the black, white mixed with that owed its origin.
It was high-class, lean meats, carilargo, was disproportionate arms,
nose flattened, eyes bulging, or flower of the face, small mouth,
and while barely fit in it two strings of teeth sparse, wide and lips,
her lips blackened, very thick and pale copper color.

Short pin used, the cleric, sparse and curly, like the hair, although it is thicker and erect in tufts
on his head giving the same appearance assigned by the fable of Medusa. [29]

As a tailor who had set the tone in fashion, wearing denim pants Uribe adjusted legs, narrow top,
figuring an M italic, without the final link, and the indispensable leather straps. Instead of the
shoe bootie, then in general use, wearing thongs Cordovan, exposing feet that had nothing
to boys, and well shaped, because of showing too much bunions, were only bridge. However little would
prevent in favor of Uribe looks, no doubt it was the kindest of the tailors, very ceremonious
and if not paid on the ability of your scissors. He was married to a mulatto like him high, thick,
unwrapped, who at home at least, liked to go both legs, dragging
the satin slipper, and to teach more than what suited decency, back
and plump and glistening shoulders.

Began the afternoon of one of the last days of October. Up and down many carriages wagons and
carts the narrow streets of the Wall, perhaps the busiest of the city as the most populous central
and be all stores of various kinds. The noise of the wheels and the horses' feet on the stones,
sounded like continuous thunder inside open houses to the winds. Not infrequently clashed against
each other, and obstructed step for a long time. In such a case, the thunder of carriages and the
voices were happening the suits from the road and rickshaw pullers,
without regard or respect for the ladies.

The transient walk, if I wanted to be trampled by horses or crushed against the walls of the
Bocines houses with projections of the wheel hub, had to take shelter in shops until it cleared
the road.

On the evening of which we speak now, there was one of those frequent collisions between chitin occupied
by three young ladies, coming down, and a cart loaded with two boxes of sugar, up. Force clashed
with opposing hubs of both vehicles, the result of which the second wheel up first and came by
his rays, yielding one. The shock two carriages were almost across the street, the chitin in
the rear to the door Uribe's tailor shop, which penetrated the head of the mule cart. Carry
On, which philandering had been sitting at one of the boxes of sugar, with a whip in his right
hand, lost his balance and hit the mud and stones of the street a terrible his side.

And this man, African by birth, as well as the other, black, Havana,
rather than come each in his respective vehicle in order to undo the
mess and to facilitate passage with dreadful curses and insults are
rammed each other, blind with fury wild.

No was that they knew were at odds and had to avenge past wrongs, but being the two slaves,
oppressed and mistreated by their masters forever, with no time or means to meet their passions,
they hated to death purely by instinct and vented that anger was owned, at the first opportunity
presented to them. In vain the ladies of chitin, very startled, screamed to the sky, and most of
them repeatedly threatened to coachman with a harsh punishment if he did not give up the fight
and took care of the restive horses. But the fighters, in their anger and lashes rain that was
dumped, not heard word. Then the Spanish shops, tailoring officers, all looking out at the
door in his shirtsleeves, increased noise and confusion with his spokesmen and laughter, signs
of joy to some who witnessed the fight.

In this, a poor man came in through a door degustation of tailoring, to avoid the carriage wheels,
and leaving the other arm extended above the fallen bellow and came off the comb tile head
of the youngest of the girls, thus the long braid of her hair abounds developed and disentangling
all, over his back with silky, shiny waves which Totí wings.

She gave a cry and put both hands to the head, at which time, José
Dolores Pimienta, so far as spectator others, made an exclamation
of surprise, "murmured the name of"

Virgin of bronze ' and jumped on the thief, or rather on the dam,
which had carried her in triumph. Achieved claw throw, but was brittle
as hawksbill and was, moreover, nicely set, is I was shattered in
his hand only thing he could return to his grieving and frightened
owner. A confusion for the thief escaped, though none other than the
official tailor lie had stopped at that occurrence. However, the cry
of it, their action generous when the generality of the spectators
thought only fun, drew attention Uribe, who turned suddenly to him
and said:

- Are you crazy? Do you imagine that this also was Cecilia
Valdés? If I say that you see visions.

- No, answered dryly José
Dolores. I know what I'm saying.

'You gWeat scoundWel!' said he, with a multiplicity of oaths; 'you mutinous dog! what do you
mean by dWessing yourself in my Wegimentals? As sure as my name's Fakenham, when we get back
to the Wegiment, I'll have your soul cut out of your body.'

'I'm promoted, Lieutenant,' said I, with a sneer. 'I'm come to take my leave of you;' and then
going up to his bed, I said, 'I intend to have your papers and purse.' With this I put my hand
under his pillow; at which he gave a scream that might have called the whole garrison about
my ears. 'Hark ye, sir!' said I, 'no more noise, or you are a dead man!' and taking a handkerchief,
I bound it tight around his mouth so as well-nigh to throttle him, and, pulling forward the
sleeves of his shirt, tied them in a knot together, and so left him; removing the papers and
the purse, you may be sure, and wishing him politely a good day. Then ordered to do the
same to amulatado, who called Mena, then to another surname Arredondo, who occupied placed face
to face with the chair. When he had finished explaining about textual Govantes turned his eyes
to his left, went over Leonardo - which suddenly lowered his head pretending to pick up the
dropped handkerchief to try and stop them the young man who sat at the head of another bank.
No one knew this lesson and remained silent, which, after a short while, the kind teacher said
- the other, with identical result. Immediately jumped to fourth after the sixth, which also failed
to respond, until leaving three or four medium, Gamboa said: - You.
 I rode to Hof, and the next day to Cassel, giving out that I was the bearer
of despatches to Prince Henry, then on the Lower Rhine, and put up at the best hotel of the
place, where the field-officers of the garrison had their ordinary. Ignoring
the cause, Leonardo, who was fearless, back to the race, entered by force the huddle and took
his friend's trouble. More so he was informed by what had happened, laughed at will and he
said, I took for montuno, Pancho. You too have a figure ...

- I figure it has nothing to do with it, Pancho broke in a bad mood, is that these Spanish Jews
have more than men's.

Following the road from San Ignacio our students, before long led to the Square the Cathedral.
When they reached the gates of the house known by Filomeno, called them attention to a large and
compact group of people who entered the same on the opposite side, ie, Merchants Street and Boquete.
The vanguard, composed mostly people of color, men, women and boys dirty, ragged and barefoot,
and walked away, was already high, and occasionally turned his head back, and by spring. Between
two rows equipped soldiers lightly, because their uniform was of blue cloth jacket, pants white
belt holster attached to the front, round hat and short rifle, carrying by thirds were mulatto
and black twelve dressed in black serge robe, with white muslin cap, the tip of long floated
behind the head, by way of a pennant; and every man carried in his right hand a black cross on the short
arm and long shaft. Four of those grim men drove to the shoulder, hand chair, apparently a
human creature, whose head and body hidden beneath the folds of black cloth (muslin robe), falling
to lead out of the whole apparatus.

On one side of this mysterious priest came a black silk robe, cap in head and a crucifix in
both hands, the other a black quite young, strong and agile. This wore white trousers and round
hat, black wool jacket, whose back was discovered one as a yellow silk embroidered ladder. Indicated
that his office, and was nothing less than the executioner. He walked a measured pace and not
raise his eyes from the ground. Behind came a white man dressed in knee breeches, silk stockings,
cloth waistcoat and cocked hat, all in color black. This was the scribe. He immediately marched
a senior military officer indicated by the three braid of the coat and cocked hat laced with
gold, with pen white ostrich. Closed the procession other blacks and mulattos in the cut black
suit and cap White, already described, and more people, all moving in solemn and silent procession,
for not heard another noise rhythmic steps of the troops and the shrill voice of the priest
reciting the prayers of the dying.

For this quick overview habanero warn the reader that he was a prisoner death that led to the
gallows, accompanying the Brothers of Charity and Faith, an institution Religious composed
exclusively of people of color who was busy attending to the sick and dying and burying the dead,
especially the bodies of the executed. It is well known that the Spanish justice takes his
anger to the gates of the grave, and I Hence the need for such a religious institution, which
is responsible for collecting the body of criminal and burial, rather than relatives and friends
of those offices by private law or custom.

The troops guarding the prisoner in such circumstances, in Havana at least, was a picket of the
famous game of Armona, a kind of civil guard, established by Vives, who played the role of police
in other parts, the senior military, the largest square, Colonel Molina the time after the
Morro Castilian, whose employment died loaded with hatred of those who had oppressed and exploited
while he held the first of these charges: the individual that led to execution in the manner
referred to was not a man, but women and white, perhaps the first of its kind that ran in Havana.

CHAPTER
IX

     ... This is justice That
     the King orders facer ...

THE DUKE OF RIVAS

D. Alvaro de Luna.

         

     

Deserves to be counted, even briefly, the story of the woman whose crime was punishable with
the death penalty. Married to a poor peasant living in the outskirts of the small Mariel population,
did not know how long, or make the case much either. But without be young and beautiful, she
contracted illicit relations with an unmarried man of the people. Seas, which the husband find
out what was happening and threatened to take revenge, that lovers séase wanted to get rid of
that nuisance, the fact was that the two agreed on killing him. Y got this great job that
it costs to kill a man, tried to hide the traces Crime dismembering the body and thrown into a
nearby river bloodstained rooms, sewn into a sack. Such were the main facts elucidated in the case.

But
what role women played in the terrible drama? It was not clear.

In defense deployed as disinterested as rare eloquence the brilliant young lawyer Anacleto
Bermudez, [16] who had just arrived from Spain, whose advice had been received from attorney and
in that case made its debut as a working criminal. The fact was outrageous, however, and Women's
crime was proved, for if there had wounded with his own hand, had taken a leading part in
the murder and hiding the corpse. It was therefore required its condemnation at the last execution,
but it was the gallows, because then only applied the stick of noble people, even rarer event
in Cuba than run at a white woman.

The penalty of death hanging in the Spanish dominions was, if anything,
more terrible than the club, or generalized introduced some time after
that to which we refer to now.

The executioner, so I tied two ropes around the neck of the defendant, he threw from the top
of the stairs he sat astride the shoulders, and the heel will hit the stomach to hasten its
end by sliding the foot of the executed, whose body, in a suit cut, was rocking outdoors for eight
hours, two yards from the ground. Show similar should not be presented in Havana with a white
woman, for her to be vulgar or ugly his crime.

In such a situation, and when he had failed the appeal of an alleged pregnancy, Bermudez asked
and obtained as a special grace that make her die in a club.

The reader will recall that seven or eight years after that to which we incur now abolished
the punishment of gallows Cuba, which the prison sits on the western corner of the building known
as the House Government, which also operated the City with all its dependencies, where he
lived Captain General with theirs, and there was the notary public, the inmate had to go a
long and harrowing race before it ended its life in the countryside of Punta, immediately to sea.
In effect, Merchants Street went to the square of the Cathedral then twisted to San Ignacio, then
to the Chacón, then to Cuba, then by edge of the wall to pass under the vaulted door of the
dark called Punta, he had body guards and gave out the bodies of the city who had to bury in the
general cemetery.

Walk out that door besieged city, could see the defendant in the distance, against arrecibe the coast
against which the waves broke in tiny flakes of bright foam machine
terrible, hanging, club, or dock, which was to have his life end.

For a fearful mood, death with all its horrors was force them to submit long before you receive
it. Luckily, the woman who now speak, from the moment Chapel put her in His strength, and with
them the awareness of their horrible situation, be accurate, as we have seen, that would lead
to the place of execution in sedan chair, sit at arms on the club's bank, and now dead, dislocate
the neck vertebra to put down on his chest the last breath of life.

Five or six years after the events just mentioned, had changed a whole the appearance of the
area of ​​Punta. The desolate and dusty west limiting early wooden houses in the neighborhood
of San Lazaro, on the south stacks of tables and imported rafters
United States of North America in the north sea and Castle Point,
their dwarf battlements looming behind crowded railway boilers for
the production of Carron Sugar, did a building of three bodies, massive,
square, built by Captain General Miguel Tacon for public prison presidial
tank and infantry barracks.

The space was found on the north side of the building, still blocked more with the construction of
wooden sheds to shelter a portion of the presidio employed in chopping pebble hammer, towards
the cobbled streets of the city McAdam by system. But, anyway, so the prison was separated from
the House Government, prisoners went to a building, although flawed in many respects, made specifically
for relief and security, was more convenient single-sex and crime,
and, in particular, was reduced to one third of the via crucis of
the unfortunate death row inmates, they have barely two hundred yards
from the new jail on the edge of the reef, where were carried out
executions.

From there and the Punta, to the opposite side, left receiving the death of the patriot and
hero, years later, Montes de Oca and young Facciolo; General Lopez and Spanish painted, the
brave Estrampes and, today, and Leon Medina and the innocent students of the University of Havana.

Incorporáronse
three friends to the grim procession, and accompanied by the side of the Cathedral seminar
to the door of a building which extends from the bottom of it and gives on the port. They had not
yet opened the entrance to the classroom, and the coup as two hundred students of law, philosophy
and Latin, the flower of Cuban youth, expands from the stone steps of the goal to the headquarters
of San Telmo on the one hand, and on the other long way toward the canopy and side streets of
San Ignacio, because of the narrow road. By a spontaneous movement, the student crowd was divided
in two rows, giving free passage through the street to the strange procession, which preceded a
rumor deaf as a swarm of bees looking for resting place.

He stopped for a moment before the door of the seminar, to allow time for four children of Charity
and Faith relieve the chair carried by hand from the jail. The Figure meanwhile, did not change
position or made the slightest movement, but although the folds black mantle completely hid
his face, his name and his crime story ran from mouth to mouth among all students.

- No one would say that there are a woman, said a student of Latin.

- Indeed, the statue looks more like a screamer to be living, added another.

- Regret the overwhelming, "said a third. So bend your head on your chest.

- Ya, a student said high amulatado aspect, the case no wonder. Now suppose I was horrified that
his own crime.

- But is tested, as the light of noon, as stated in the party law,
asked our Pancho known that Panchita killed her husband?

- So much
so that killed him will give him stick, he returned to observe the
student amulatado, with a certain smile of disdain.

For more signs that after his death, he jerked, and cosiéndole in
a sisal sack, he threw into the river to feed the fishes.

All this argument did not constitute a crime of Panchita Tapia, and
his namesake would replicate when another student was brought calling
out Campanula Spanish accent:

- By an inch makes the girl with his
consort is hereby given that the law is made to Item the parricide.

Just missed the bag out of leather, which had flames painted red outside and inside had put
a rooster, a snake and a monkey, animals do not know father or mother.

-
The Law of the Twelve Tables, [17] Pancho said quickly, raising his
voice and raising up a So happy to correct your student flat Spanish
- copied pedem litterae in games, he sent Alfonso the Wise compile
- not talking about cocks, but dog snake and monkey, and not because
these animals known or unknown father or mother, but simply to deliver
the criminal to his fury.

The Code considers parricide Alfonsino women still who kills her husband. The practice today is
to drag the defendant in a basket attached to the tail a horse to the foot of the gallows. So that,
if not drag Panchita Tapia, accused of this heinous crime, the reason
is because I do not agree to our customs.

I said.

This Pancho away quickly from that group, something not allow time for replication part of the
Spanish students. But he contented himself with saying, seeing him away:

- It is known that the boy has studied the lesson.

At that point they opened the powerful cedar leaves the door Seminar better known then under
the name of Colegio de San Carlos. The large patio is constituted four riders wide, stone columns,
forming a square. In the center was a source, and all around lush and leafy orange trees. On
the opposite side of the entry main, left, had a stone staircase leading to the clusters of
teachers, on the right, a fence that separated the corridor of a dark alley and humid which is
penetrated by a side room, long and dirty water separate port a garden
or orchard high walls.

That way they gave a high and four windows where the only light came half lit the room. Against
the opposite wall, in the center, poyaba a bad chair, and on both
sides of it there were many wooden benches tough, strong and high
back, placed transversely.

There he taught philosophy, then taught for the first time this science to Cuban youth the illustrious
Father Felix Varela, who wrote a text for it, withdrawing entirely from Aristotle, followed in
Cuba only until then, since the founding of the University of Havana in 1714, in the Convent
of Santo Domingo. When later, in 1821, Father Varela representative went to the Spanish Cortes,
was replaced in the same chair the most outstanding of his disciples, José Antonio Saco, and
the moments of our history The lawyer played Francisco Javier de la Cruz, the absence in North
America Owner and founder of his virtuous expatriation.

In the corner on the left was another room, with input directly from the corridor, where Plumas
father taught Latin.

Then, occupying most of the other hand, was the refectory of seminarians and some faculty
residing permanently in the same building and left of the main entrance was the broad staircase,
giving access to brokers upstairs. It rose by law students not seminarians, while those of
philosophy and Latin entering respective classrooms, already mentioned, for flush doors the patio.

In
the morning we are referring to, when law students set foot in the first step of the stairs,
stopped mass repairs in a group of three subjects in lively conversation about there, under
the corridor. On his remarks could take 28 to 30 years of age. He was of medium height, his
face white with color very much alive, and torn blue eyes, large
mouth with thick lips and dark hair and straight, but hearty.

There was some reservation in appearance and elegantly dressed, in the English. The other three
characters you could say the reverse of the medal already described, as a stocky body, large
head, short neck, curly and very black hair, big eyes and protruding lower lip lip, leaving
uneven teeth hover, wide and misplaced snuff added a leaf color that was much doubt the purity of
their blood. The third differed in several respects from the two mentioned, being thinner
than them, older pale and looked very nice and delicate. This was the philosophy professor, Francisco
Javier de la Cruz, José Agustín Govantes above, a distinguished jurist
who ran the chair of patriotic duty, and the first named José Antonio
Saco, fresh from North America.

It preceded the fame of his writings in the Weekly Messenger, which published in New York, they
said, with the cooperation of the beloved Father Varela, especially those who dealt with about
events and prominent figures of the revolution in Mexico and Colombia. About However, just
read in Havana, producing a lively enthusiasm, critical and political controversy with the manager
of the Botanic Garden, Don Ramón de la Sagra, in defense of Matanzas poet [18] José María Heredia.

Following
that, the young Cuban, who already gave to politics, began to drift away botany class that sought
to teach La Sagra, taunting him as he admired to Saco, who had decided by an insurgent, with
whose opinion, something unique, she attended plane the government of the colony.

Some law students recognized him, of course, having studied philosophy with him in 1823 and murmured
his name, which was enough to make it stop and make a exclamation rather curious than anything
else. This was to attract the attention of Govantes, which, by signs, ordered his followers
to leave the classroom, where he would shortly.

There, in fact, headed in droves and entered the room with great jubilation, speaking Saco, de
Heredia, in his famous anthem of the exile and his equally famous ode to Niagara including the collection
of his poems printed in Toluca, Mexico, of botany lessons La Sagra, and heroes of the revolution
in Colombia, even then imperfectly known by the youth of Havana.

When, soon after, entered Govantes a slow pace, with a book under his arm and smiling face and
lively, stopped abruptly students and complete silence reigned there.
 The latter was, for the moment,
an evil against which it required no small powers of endurance to contend; for the jolts of
the waggon were dreadful, and every shake caused a throb in my brain which I thought would
have split my skull. As the morning dawned, I saw that the man next me, a gaunt yellow-haired
creature, in black, had a cushion of straw under his head.

'Are you wounded, comrade?' said I.

'Praised be the Lord,' said he, 'I am sore hurt in spirit and body, and bruised in many members;
wounded, however, am I not. And you, poor youth?'

'I am wounded in the head,' said I, 'and I want your pillow: give it me--I've a clasp-knife
in my pocket!' and with this I gave him a terrible look, meaning to say (and mean it I did,
for look you, A LA GUERRE C'EST A LA GUERRE, and I am none of your milksops) that, unless he
yielded me the accommodation, I would give him a taste of my steel.

'I would give it thee without any threat, friend,' said the yellow-haired man meekly, and handed
me over his little sack of straw.

He then leaned himself back as comfortably as he could against the cart, and began repeating,
'Ein' feste Burg ist unser Gott,' by which I concluded that I had got into the company of a
parson. With the jolts of the waggon, and accidents of the journey, various more exclamations
and movements of the passengers showed what a motley company we were. The
true story of whose face now we draw a broad brush, they were not in general, even middle class,
or get the best education in Cuba, and not believe Effortless traits of courtesy and affection in
any circumstances have anything of delicate or thin.

- That says something Cantalapiedra, "someone said.

- Cantalapiedra
says nothing when he eats, he said while roi a turkey leg.

- Well,
do not eat if it is to silent, jumped another.

- That's not because
I eat and I will say until doomsday, "said the commissioner.

How do you want, without But say if I have not soaked the throat?

- There goes my glass! Here is mine! Take it! cried at least ten voices, et al so many arms were
crossed on the table in the direction of the commissioner, who, after
holding a another cup, each filled with a different wine, it was throwing
to the doublet, with no again shows the effect that caused him to
wear something aguársele ruddy and eyes.

Then filling his own glass of champagne rich, coughed up the chest voice and Campanula, although
if it is a raspy, said:

- Bomba! In the native happy my friend Merceditas Ayala, Tenth:

I say on occasion, Merceditas of my eyes, Keep your eye thorns For
that punctures the heart.

    
    Ten of a sad pity, That
    your eyes sighs That your eyes
    raving, That encourages your eyes, That supports your eyes This life
of lies.

    
    
    After this improvisation
    vulgar and distasteful, cheers
    and applause rang out loud
    and repeated, with discordant banging dishes with knives.

And as a reward for his poetry work, for it was an olive skewered on the same fork that had carried food
to the mouth, a slice of ham Esoteric, beyond that of a piece of turkey, of it a candy, sugar
neighboring yolk until the Ayala ended the rising stream of gifts and passing his cup full of
Jerez, Leonardo to improvise also as it had done the commissioner complacent. He took advantage
of the truce that implicitly granted him to leave the table, go straight, but secretly, until
the edge of the well, where two fingers in his mouth, he threw what he had eaten and drunk, which was
not little. And very cool, spare back to the table. Thanks to a expeditious means as simple
as, could turn to eat and drink as if it had not tested morsel or drop last all night. Of the
other men who had drunk too much and unaware Cantalapiedra effective remedy, which more than
less, few were right to have firm the head, not excepting the very young Leonardo.

In this unfortunate circumstance is attributable to so fine a young man as well educated, also
pay to make songs and for the sake of that hero of the party. But rather than was wrong, being
applauded and given not less than the previous balladeers, though
it was noted that far Cecilia Valdés to celebrate, like the others,
his poetic effort, remained silent and visibly run.

Nemesia neither took part in the celebration, but because very otherwise, namely: to be engaged
in a rapid and secret dialogue with his brother Joseph Dolores Pimienta.

- He shall not idle the rear? told him.

- Maybe not, she replied.

- And how do you know?

- Since I know many things.

Do I need not give me the food with a spoon?

- Yeah, but you do not explain.

- Because there is no time now.

-
Sobrado, sister.

- Then, the walls have ears.

- Go!

When you scream.

- Come on, do not be stubborn.

I tell you do not.

- I do not waste the opportunity.

- You will have a hard time.

-
What do I care if my taste?

- I repeat, Jose Dolores, do not get
a shirt of eleven staff.

Do not be headstrong.

With that stubbornness me off to help. I understand that better than you, I'm seeing.

Before the noise had been calm voices, claps and beats on the plates and table, Leonardo said
something in secret to Cecilia, and took to the streets dragging Meneses by the arm, without
saying goodbye to anyone, the French, as he said when he drove Cantalapiedra less. Once outside,
despite the drizzling rain, two young, long arm, took walk the streets of Havana to the city center,
and the first corner, which was of San Isidro, Meneses Leonardo went straight and took the
return of Paula Hospital.

Light clouds, light dark, torn apart by the cool wind from the northeast, passing a after another
at fairly regular procession ahead of the waning moon, which went beyond the zenith, and sometimes
dropped white light rays. The cross street, narrow and twisted carrying the young Leonardo
is not cleared again, or did he see his way right until came to the square of the hospital before,
and then only the left side is lit at times, because the walls of the church of Paula, high
and dark, projected double shadow over free space. Leaning on them, however, could make his
carriage, horses which dropped their heads and ears, eager to avoid the rain and wind that
hurt them in the face. He lay the cap and did not look for any rider part, either in the saddle,
used his position, or behind, or in the recess of the door wide of the church, which could serve
warm. But a second look at Leonardo knew where was. Sitting in the pesebrón of chitin, dangled
his legs covered with boots Bell, as he rested his head and arms, medium back in the spring
pads of Morocco. On the floor lay the quarter that the dream had come off the hands, Leonardo
picked it up to the point, lifted a cap and singing with all his might hit two or three lashes
on and holding by the shoulders forward.

- Lord! cried the coachman, between scared and sore, descending.

Standing and could be seen was a mulatto boy, very stocky, broad shoulders and face, stronger if
not higher than that just warm your back with cowhide. Dressed in the style of your office on the island
of Cuba, dark cloth jacket, braid trimmings quilted jacket, the collar fisherman's pants,
linen, huge boots bell, by way of spats, and round black hat, gold braid. We should mention
also, as the hallmarks of coachman, double silver spurs, which had no at the time the mulatto now
speaks.

- Listen! said his master, for it was indeed the young Leonardo, slept soundly, while the horses
were at will. Huh?

What would have happened if frightened by chance, they run through
the streets of Barabbas?

- I was not sleeping, child dared to look
at the coachman.

- "So not sleep?

Aponte Aponte, you seem to not know me or think I suck finger. Look, mounts, which adjust accounts.
Take the chitin to the crib, making the two girls who brought it and lead them home. I wait
at the wall of Santa Clara, street corner in Havana. Mount allows no one behind. Do you understand?

-
Yes, sir, Aponte said, starting toward the checkpoint San Jose.

At the door dance house, without dismounting, he said to a stranger who then entered:

- Do I you please tell the girl Cecilia here is the chitin?

Despite the addition of girl that made use of the coachman talking about Cecilia, which is only
Cuba applied to the white class youth, the stranger passed without error message or doubt. Incontinent
She left the table and went to take his blanket, followed by Nemesia and Ayala. The latter
accompanied them to the front door, where already had grouped the few men who had not been fired.
There, still bearing the waist Cecilia, a sign of friendship and
affection, said:

- Do not trust men, china, because it takes to lose.

-
And I have trusted in any of these hours, Merceditas?

Cecilia said surprised.

- Yeah, but that chitin has an owner, and no one gives clubs for nothing. Keep it for granted.
I think I explain.

With this and pretend Cantalapiedra who cried Cecilia's departure,
which caused much laughter, and it climbed into the carriage Nemesia
shaking hands Pepper, and indeed was disrupted the meeting.

Could then be the one in the morning. The wind had fallen and the rain stopped which from time to
time, throwing the flying clouds over the sleeping city and in darkness. As says the vulgar
expression, was dark as pitch. Not so, however, young musician lost track of carriage driving
his sister and her friend, before by the noise of the wheels on the stony floor of the streets,
he was following the water the first step and then stepping trot until he reached about Acosta
Street. He put his hand on the table behind, was promoted to the race course and was wearing
mounted to the philandering. At once he felt the coachman .-- Get out and got high, he said Nemesia through
the grating .-- No why, "said Cecilia keeping .-- I am going back, Pepper said .-- Alight You
said at that time Aponte, who had already dismounted .-- Did not I tell you? added Nemesia,
speaking with his brother .-- Herein is my sister and my friend, noted musician turning to
the coachman .-- said it will be well, but I do not let anyone to ride back My chitin. Spoils,
comrade; added noting that he had lost as a mulatto it .-- Get down,
Nemesia repeated insistently.

Due José Dolores Pimienta, knowingly after a terrible fight and it deaf same, in the triumph of
prudence, but yielding and everything at that juncture, did not give to the decision taken to continue
the carriage. Remounted and continued the race calesero lead straight to the street light,
twisting there left to Havana. Near the barrel of the corner was a man standing, sheltered from
the wind and the fine drizzle with the high walls of the courtyard belonging to the monastery
of nuns Claras. At that point, stopped a second time Aponte chitin, the man went quietly to
the rear, then said softly: Arrea! Then left it to escape, but not without time to be close
enough musician to realize that the guy who replaced him in behind the carriage was the same
white boy, Leonardo, who had inspired so jealous in the crib.

     
     CHAPTER VII
     
     What man is how he Muscat's business, is discrete shameful or sweet
or embittered?

         

     

LOPE DE VEGA

The digger

In the district of San Francisco and one of the least crooked streets, with sidewalks and slabs
in a block or two, had, among others, a house roof, which was distinguished
by the floor high above the arch of the door and balcony to the west.

General admission, as nearly every house in the country - for owners, servants, cattle and
carriages, two of which was usually on duty - was on the porch, or garage casapuerta species,
leading the dining room, patio and fourth desks.

Called under this last name that looked right, then the hallway, occupied, the first by a double
fold merchant, with two high wooden benches, one on each front, and
underneath a small iron box, square instead of door had lid to open
or close, where it was stored or taken out bags of money.

On the opposite side of the house was lower row of rooms for the family, with input common room,
door and window and patio dining.

This was a quadrilateral, in which the protruding center blue stone parapet of the pit or tank,
where, through tin channels and pipes buried in the ground stormwater
was discharged into the roofs.

A wall six feet in elevation, with a arc towards the far right, separating the patio from the
kitchen, stable, latrine, quarter of the rickshaw pullers and other rooms of the house.

Between the entrance and the rooms called desks, down to the dining room, leaning against the
wall boundary, a rough stone staircase with railings cedar without plateau or more rest the
violent turn that made the last steps near the foot. This ladder communicated rooms with high, composed
of two parts: the first was an antechamber, so large as the hall, the second, even more, like I had
the same dimensions as desks on which was built and served as a bedroom and study. In fact,
main furniture that filled almost, was a bed or cot frame of mahogany, covered renge fly with
a blue, a wooden cabinet that own a casaquero or perch of the same, a black couch bristle, a few
straw-seated chairs, a table as buffet, and a hearty chair. [9] On such furniture were several
books about open, others closed or with one or more sheets folded by the tip, pasted to the
Spanish with red edge, all apparently of legislation, could be seen, reading the signs golden
on the spines of some. On the couch, only two newspapers in pamphlet form: the most large with
a very bad recorded figurines depicting a man, woman and a child
and was titled The Weekly Leisure fashion, [10] On the other nag.

[11]

Downstairs in the dining room table was a mahogany wing, able to twelve covered, up to six seats
in two rows facing the door of the room, in the indispensable jarrero angle, sui generis furniture
in the country, and to provide the piece dark and shield reverberation of the sun in the courtyard,
had two great curtains of canvas, which is wound and developed just as the theater curtains. In the
dividing wall between the hall and the room had an iron grating, and to make way for the outside
light in the latter, two windows of the same cantilever, which from the ground level of the
street rose to the eaves of the roof. Main beam by chains hung pump crystal side wall two
oil paintings, representing a lady and a gentleman in the prime of life, made by Escobar [12]
under their couch, and in the direction perpendicular to it, two rows, six chairs with seat and
back of Moroccan red, at the four corners, mahogany corner cabinets adorned with guardabrisas glass
or china vases. On the wall between windows, a high table with gilded feet and above a rectangular
mirror, filling intermediate gaps, chairs profusely.

Of note was the white muslin curtain with fringe of cotton hanging from the lintels doors and windows of
the rooms, to provide safe passage for air and hide its secrets from the looks of those who passed
by the dining room and patio. In short, the house that, peculiarly Havana, as will be thrown
to see on the fine description of it we did, breathing everywhere toilet, cleaning y. .. estate,
because that can be called, in fact, if you have regard to the country, the time of that speech,
style and quality unfurnished, the two carriages in the hall and
the very ability of the dwelling.

"Here lived a decent family, well educated and happy? We will see shortly.

At the time our story begins, between six seven in one day October, occupied a seat in the dining
room of a gentleman of some fifty years old, tall, robust, graying hair, aquiline nose, large,
small mouth, and bright brown eyes, the color of his face ruddy, round head from behind, these characteristic
signs strong passions and strength of character. Her short hair, shaved his beard completely;
chintz dressing gown cut down on long white pique vest, jeans and slippers ante. Feet resting
on a chair with straw seat with both hands had the eyes a Spanish newspaper printed on line
from the common folio entitled The Journal Havana.

[13]

As I read you had a boy about twelve years old, dressed in jeans and listadillo shirt, coming from the
back of the yard and brought in the right hand a cup coffee, put on a plate, and the other a silver
sugar bowl. The gentleman, without straightening in the chair, took the cup, softened and began
to sip and read quietly, while the servant, with arms crossed over his chest, was standing
before him, keeping in the hands respective plate and sugar. Once the potion of coffee, even
though the boy was a few steps, he said in a thundering voice: - Snuff and fire! Career that went
into the kitchen and returned to the quarterfinals little desks, then bringing a large bladder
with some cigarettes [14] coiled in the bottom and a silver brazier with a charcoal grill, half
buried in a pile of ashes.

The gentleman turned a cigarette and when the boy was about to start
the race again, he shouted: - Tirso!

- Lord! also said loudly as
if they were in the kitchen or talking to deaf.

- Have you been up?
asked the master.

- Yes, sir, from then reached the place to cook.

-
How Leonardo is that the child has not dropped yet?

- You mean your
favor that the child does not want to Leonardo dispierten when it
has passed bad night.

- Bad night!

Knight repeated mentally.

Anda (the slave), wake him up and down.

- Lord, "the boy said hesitantly and confusing. Lord, your mercy knows ...

- What happens? thundered the master again, after he perceived that
the slave was stopped and he had not obeyed.

- Sir, is mean to your
mercy, that the child gets mad when dispiertan, y. ..

- What?

What? Ah! Dog! Walk, run or you will get on kicks.

And as the gentleman hereby incorporated to execute the threat, did
not wait to repeat it to obey the order.

In four hops was at the top of the stairs, disappearing in the bedroom
of the young Leonardo.

At the same time the boy ran upstairs peeked through the door of
the room a lady a bit thick, beautiful, lovable appearance, tiny factions,
his hair still black, but past forty-old Dutch dressed in white bugle,
and warm with a blanket of color Burato Islands and all of it very
neat and calm and ladylike gesture.

He sat beside the gentleman of the gown, who, asking for news of the day, gave the name of Gamboa.
This he said between his teeth that the only important that brought The Journal was the appearance
of cholera morbus in Warsaw which raged frightening.

- And where is that? asked Mrs. yawning.

- Takes! Gamboa said. That's far away. Imagine, there, near the North Pole, in Poland. He has
to shoot Mr anger to reach us, and then ... Nowhere be you and me!

- God save us hours dwindling, Candido! she cried the lady with the
same air of laziness before.

Tirso down here the double precipitation steps, if possible, to that with which had risen, and
not because your head down time, it will reach a book thrown at him
from above, which, with the violence of the coup was smashed in the
door the desktop.

Don Candido looked up and the lady got up and went to the foot of the steps in, asking: - What
was that?

For answer the boy, very scared, we Eye said the young Leonardo, who was on top, wrapped in the
sheet, with clenched fists in a sign of anger and threat. But no sooner discovered his mother
because what was that lady, he changed his attitude and countenance, and would certainly explain
the occurrence, when she held a sign making very significant, equivalent, more or less to
say: - Quiet, that is where your father. So he, without further ado, he turned and be returned
to the bedroom.

- Leonardo Comes the child? Gamboa said the slave, as if the race had not noticed of this, the librazo
desk against the door or the actions of his wife.

- Yes, sir, "replied Tirso.

- Did you give my message?

Don Candido insisted on more voice loud and harsh.

- You want to tell your worship, "replied the slave all confused and
trembling, that ... the child ... Leonardo child did not give me time.

The lady had sat down again, and still full of anxiety the words and
movements the face of her husband.

She saw him turn red as you let go of the few phrases Tirso that in his confusion was able to
use, yet he seemed about to rise, perhaps to strike the slave, or drive down by force Leonardo
whose confusing alternative to gain time, he dropped his right hand on the left arm and said in
a low musical voice:

- Candide, Leonardite dresses for fall.

- And how do you know? Don Candido said with great vividness, turning to his wife.

- I see half-dressed, on top of the stairs, "she said calmly.

- Well,
you are always aware of when Leonardo does his duty, but are blind
to their faults.

- I do not know the porbrecito has done nothing,
at least recently.

- Ya!

Did not I tell you? Blind, blind girl, Rosa, your mamanteos going
to lose that kid.

Tirso! Don Candido thundered.

Tirso return before the kitchen, where he had taken refuge after their masters engaged the last, brief
dialogue, entered the hall below the mulatto coachman who already know our readers, that scene
in the neighborhood of San Isidro and night of 24 September. Now wearing only shirt and pants
whose legs were rolled up to just over below the knees, and to reveal the edge of the white
briefs, which was teeth instead of borders. The shoes were of very low-cut cowhide with silver
buckle next door, and had gold rings in her ears, head kerchief, hat straw in his right hand and
left the halter of a horse that brought rabiatado other the same color and prints, both fresh
from the bath, then dripped water or even sweat and the latter had made a knot tail. The mulatto
had ridden the first since the stable the bathroom, near the Pier Light, because I still had
the blanket in the absence of chair.

- But here's Aponte, said Don Candido seeing him hover. Aponte!

- No need to ask the servants brought Rosa.

- I want you to hear a recent thank your son, "said the man.

At what time brought last night (talking to Aponte) your master?

-
At two o'clock in the morning, said Aponte.

- Where did your love
the night?

Don Candido said.

- It is useless to say it, "interrupted the lady.

Aponte, takes these horses to the manger.

- Where did your love the night? Don Candido repeated in a voice of thunder, seeing the coachman
provisions to obey the order of her mistress.

- It is difficult to me to tell my master at his mercy, where he spent
the night my love Leonardite child.

- What!

How do you understand?

- I tell her mercy, my lord, it is very difficult, Aponte hastened
to explain, noting Don Candido flew into a rage, because first I took
the child to Santa Leonardite Catarina, I took him to spring disposed
Light, arranged as I waited on the dock of Light until twelve o'clock,
I took another turn willing to Santa Catarina, willing ...

- Enough!

Rosa said angrily. 'm Aware.

Aponte was removed with the horses, through the dining room and patio in the direction of the stable
and Don Candido, turning to his wife, he said:

- What do you-a-elements-such?

Do not you think recently as last night? I knew nothing, only suspected, because I know my child better
than you, and you've heard that rule has been in until noon night.

Maybe it was not alone. Want to hear now with whom and how he spent
half the time Ruler? Can not you guess? Do not you suspect?

- Assuming
you guessed it, it felt, Rosa noted with slight contempt, what would
draw? Would you leave me to love him for that as I want?

- But if
it is not love him or desquererle, Rosa, sprang impatient Don Candido. It was the accursed tyranny of the system that sharpened
the axe which brained the two sentinels of Neiss: and so let officers take warning, and think
twice ere they visit poor fellows with the cane.

I could tell many more stories about the army; but as, from having been a soldier myself, all
my sympathies are in the ranks, no doubt my tales would be pronounced to be of an immoral tendency,
and I had best, therefore, be brief. Fancy my surprise while in this depot, when one day a
well-known voice saluted my ear, and I heard a meagre young gentleman, who was brought in by
a couple of troopers and received a few cuts across the shoulders from one of them, say in
the best English, 'You infernal WASCAL, I'll be wevenged for this. I'll WITE to my ambassador,
as sure as my name's Fakenham of Fakenham.' I burst out laughing at this: it was my old acquaintance
in MY corporal's coat. But just down the street on the side of the de Compostela, and
was once again in the busy popular when he returned to their natural and liveliness of his
character. In fact to arrive at the Five Corners, a gentleman of medium reached age had the same
direction as the students. Leonardo put his arms under of their own, covered her eyes with both
hands and said, varying the accent: - Guess who I am.

In vain the stranger tried to free herself from the clutches of the student, perhaps persuasion that
the object of that violence was stealing from the light of day and the sight of the people. But
Leonardo, after he met classmates and curious crowd, let the man; and, hat in hand and head
bowed, in sign of respect and regret, said: - I ask you a thousand pardons, sir. I have had
a regrettable mistake, but You have to blame, because it looks like
my uncle Antonio as an egg to another egg.

The students burst into laughter, as well as the unknown gentleman, understanding mockery, broke
into expressions of bad temper and anger against spoiled and insolent youth of the time. Ridiculous
scene that happened faster than we have succeeded in painting, and, to contrast with it, not well
spent Leonardo Chacon Street, put the tip of rattan in a plump corn tortilla that was beginning
to brown in the heat of Buren a plumper black and still almost naked, leaning against the corner
wall and surrounded of their junk, and lifted into the air. Dyke made an exclamation of distress,
and straight in the dwarf seat, as was so fat and heavy, rolled out the little table before
him, where other tortillas and cooked, thereby increased its displeasure and is often their cries.
Everyone laughed at the occurrence, Diego Meneses, who, by one of those noble and generous
impulses of his good heart, drew from his waistcoat pocket a few real, they threw them into
the black bulky chest, and struck the deposit in the breast, Despite
the low neckline of their low body suit.

If this is passed the anger or ceased their cries, the students were not arrested find out. Later
in the street Tejadillo de Compostela cut square and then is that of the Stonehouse, said well
having been the first in which testing began pavement system of streets of Havana with Chinese
shot and stream in the middle. For Leonardo twisted her right, and after greeting his teammates
and tell their intimate Solfa Meneses and friends who could, if they wanted to wait in the square
immediately Santa Catalina, where he would meet with them within a quarter of an hour. But being and
lunch, after the manner of Cuba, they preferred to continue their
respective houses, and thus separated Leonardo till night in the exhibition
of the Holy Guardian Angel.

Once only a law student, he changed his pace and looking suddenly. He got serious and thoughtful,
much more than could be expected in a character so happy and lively. Was he worried too much the appearance
in Havana and at the fair, the young Alquízar Ilincheta who called Isabel. However they refused, he
loved her, and suspicious his sudden arrival time to give unpleasant revelations, above all,
the discovery from their whims, which, however perverted that had
a sense of decency, could not or fail to honor get the colors to the
face.

Several times he stopped and hit the tip of the stick in the narrow slab of sidewalk, luxury
which then enjoyed, among few others, the famous street of Stonehouse. Between following and
become fluctuated greatly, it is good to know that this was not the direction from home. He,
at last, a mighty blow others with the cane, threw it over his shoulder,
as usual, and hurried on, whispering: - What the hell! A really fits.
All this, for confirmed in the resolution adopted. Almost all of us yielded to the spell--scarce one
could break it. The French officer I have spoken of as taken along with me, was in my company,
and caned like a dog. 

Characters, then, like that of Faust, as in our Spain v. gr., Don Juan Tenorio Student and Lisa,
are called to be precious jewels of all literatures, and inspire the best dramas, operas, novels
and poems that can be composed. 'For God's sake,' said he, 'don't talk of that
time: I wake up from my sleep trembling and crying even now.'

As for me, after a very brief time (in which it must be confessed I tasted, like my comrades,
of the cane) and after I had found opportunities to show myself to be a brave and dexterous
soldier, I took the means I had adopted in the English army to prevent any further personal
degradation. 

(Siddhartha Gopa kisses in silence. Gopa shakes in his arms and kisses him too. Sidarta it is
clear and runs smoothly. As soon disappears Siddhartha, Gopa faint.)

TABLE II.

Follows the scene in the city of Capilavastu: 593 years before Christ.

It is daytime. The same chamber of the thalamus.

GOPA and PRATYAPATI.

PRATYAPATI .-- I tell you, even if it takes you. No, you do not love him, because he was in your
hand to stop him and let him go.

GOPA .-- He is my master, I, your servant. No arrest was in my hand. His will is strong and above
all my praise, but even I can stop him, he would not have stopped.

PRATYAPATI .-- Why? Do you believe in your doctrine?

GOPA .-- I believe in the magnanimous impulse moves him, and that is enough: I believe in your sweet
compassion for all beings, in their love to men who look like brothers, without distinction
caste, and their strong desire to teach the path of righteousness and peace. Not only I believe
in one of the most essential thing he says, and if this doubt, or rather, if this refuse, is how
much I love him. How do I have to believe in our incurable misery in our inconsolable grief,
and that the activity of the mind is a gift fatal when, at the height
of my bitterness, abandoned by him forever, still worth remembering
that reached the and honor be yours obtained in spite of all the neglect
that leave me?

How do I to believe that life is a bad, when I see Columbro yours,
that has to be a source of many real?

What I appreciate in a short life when the infinite price of his life enough to rescue the human
race? How am I to call bienhadada unhappy and, if the fruit their love lives in our child, if
the glory of his name I will circle of brilliance immortal and if the memory that has been mine,
that I have had my plants, idolaters, enraptured in contemplation of my beauty, a couple who flatters
my pride, is an inexhaustible source of comfort to my soul?

PRATYAPATY .-- There is deep pain that is so easily comforted. No: you do not love him.

GOPA .-- Whoever does not love or understand love you, Pratyapati. Because I love him in the
same pain I find comfort, not just comfort, but pleasure and glory. And while the pain is more
intense is the most pleasant sweetness.

Suffer for him, mourn for him, see him convicted of horrible loneliness and premature widowhood,
is holy sacrifice I make for the sake of love and contains a virtue
beatific. You're more in love with his doctrine of his person. I love
him, and partly waste doctrine. For the love of his waste. Don is
not fatal in light of my understanding, shines his image as it is
not fatal gift my immortal memory, and that his memory lives on it.
Shame on the rest of the species he seeks and desires, and I prefer
the torment Finally, as long as I live in the way of a love that I
had. Under pressure from my pain give my love her more balsamic aroma
intoxicates the soul, such as herbs and smell better flowers of the
forest when the villain when passing offense and stepped on.

PRATYAPATY
.-- Forgive me, oh love women! Well I assumed you loved him but wanted
to measure the power of your love. I spurned the office four years previously, when it was made to me in the English
service; but the position is very different in a foreign country; besides, to tell the truth,
after five years in the ranks, a man's pride will submit to many rebuffs which would be intolerable
to him in an independent condition.

The captain was a young man and had distinguished himself during the war, or he would never
have been advanced to rank so early. He was, moreover, the nephew and heir of the Minister
of Police, Monsieur de Potzdorff, a relationship which no doubt aided in the young gentleman's
promotion. Captain de Potzdorff was a severe officer enough on parade or in barracks, but he
was a person easily led by flattery. In his view, Tirso flew to the kitchen for the brazier of silver
with charcoal grilled. Before the auction master cigar bite without requirement which does
not burn well, and the slave, with humble expression mixed with fear, I approached to light the
fire to his hand. With the first puff of blue smoke and acrid took the cigarette, stood up and,
followed by Butler, is entered on the desktop, so quiet as when he left an hour before, to sit at
the lunch table.

The disappearance of the father found itself a sudden and complete change in mood and family
behavior without excluding the mother. The hearts of the children was relieved by Apparently,
the weight that had oppressed, even though all of them, like concert were glad they face and broke
the tongue. Leonardo took particular enthusiasm the point of attracting to himself his mother
with his left arm to give each other kiss on the cheek and say:

-
What is it?

(Indicating his father). Are you angry?

- Contigo, "said his mother briefly.

- Me? Well, send him work.

Soon, however, was again seriously because, having noticed her sister
Antonia, not showing much growth as others, recalled the incident
in the window of the street.

- Mama, he added more seriously, I figure
you'll spend the pot and you're not.

- Why do you say that, son?

Rosa said in the softest voice imaginable.

- Did I say it, Antonia? asked his sister with malicious air.

Antonia, instead of answering, he got serious and started to leave
the table with Leonardo which added to the race:

- Worse for you,
Antonia, if you get up and leave me with the word in the mouth.

Do not say anything Mom, but it is because I have already made my
decision.

No more visits by military in my house.

- You sound like you're the master, Antonia said with disdain.

-
I am the master, it is true, but I can break a leg to one of these
days, and both counts.

- We are exposed to you break it to you.

-
We shall see.

- Suppose that instead of Spanish soldier was a cadet
who visited us, you also oppose?

- Cadet!

Cadet! Leonardo repeated with marked contempt. No one speaks of cadets,
which which military officers is nothing between two dishes.

Fashion and cadets passed, the last were buried on the beaches of Tampa, where, by that, he
took Barradas. The that they have survived the disastrous campaign, surely you have lost the taste
for weapons. Thank God we are freed from their folly.

- So that your grudge is against the Spanish, as if your father was
in Havana.

- That hate of yours to the Spanish, Rosa said, has yet
to cost us dearly, Leonardo.

- Is that my blind hatred is not mom,
not against the Spanish general, but against the military.

They think the masters of the country treat us with contempt for
us peasants, and because wear epaulettes and saber figure they deserve
and can handle anything.

To get into any hand, do not wait for the guests, once inside take
the first girls and more beautiful.

This is unbearable. Even if one looks, the girls are the ones with the fault. They seem dazzled
by the brightness of the epaulets.

- For me, Carmen noted, the rule have an exception.

- And for me, said Adela, the same thing happens.

The military, which are decent, transcend barracks.

- Do not talk like that girl said her mother, who is very deserving
military, and not going away, my uncle Lazaro Sandoval, who was colonel
of the Fixed Regiment of Havana, was at the site Pensacola and died
full of honors and scars.

- But do not talk about those military
mom jumped up and said Leonardo.

There is talk of military who came from Spain to reconquer Mexico, and that having failed to
come back here there we pay for the bad humor of the ignominious defeat. These soldiers are
which I now refer.

Is not the worst that transcend headquarters, says Adela, but are, as men, husbands malditísimos.
Until we reach brigadier, live in barracks or castles, which are home pavilions by servants,
workers rude and wanton for fun racing beatings and stick to beat them to the soldiers, for
music, target drum. Almost never set anywhere, because when you least expect it, they Featured
come out, and to Trinidad, this time to Port au Prince, then to Santiago Cuba, then to Bayamo ...
And if you are married, women and children and the household gods, of course, must follow from barracks
to barracks, from castle to castle, from detachment detachment when, for reasons of economy
she stay with her parents and he leaves with his soldiers. As its purpose is to find women to
marry rich, little care for the character and background from which to take his wife out,
sooner or later, they will scratch face and they have dragged by the hair.

Antonia could not suffer any more: he rose from the table and walked into the room, quiet and very
upset.

- Have railed your sister for no reason, Rosa said.

She does not think of any military, as much as any celebrity.

- Do not think about them, but admits courting the window, and here's
what irritates me.

- Antonia is not of those, fortunately, my son.

-
No? - Oh, Mama!

It seems you are losing sight of the understanding and face ... I
do not want talk, all I say and repeat is that one of these days I'll
break a leg to one of those soldiers.

Then he got up and as if nothing had happened, or that annoy him, went to post occupied by his
sister Adela, clasped with both arms around her waist and gave many
kisses.

- Remove, remove, she said.

Why, you were not mad at me? Hurt me with the beard.

- Where are good, so dolled up?

Leonardo asked him dodging the question indicated by sister.

- Let's Shop Pitaux Madama, who now lives in Havana street number 153.

Ago little has come from Paris and they say, has brought a thousand curiosities. On the way we
thought a tour of the Loma del Angel.

To go to the Hill is too late. Spend eleven. And now that I remember, have you seen Vds. the
number IV or Recreation Fashion Week? [25] Since Saturday was divided and is very interesting.

- You will have there? asked Carmen.

It is strange that we have sent our copy being subscribed.

- Where
are you signed?

- In the library of the Coba, Wall Street, which
is the closest point.

- For further claimed.

The copy I read was at the counter of the pharmacy of San Feliu because
mine has failed me too.

They're not accurate, they say, the delivery.

- Have you found out who is speaking Matilda of Fashion? Adela asked his brother. Because Carmen
believes that is all we know.

- To me it seems to me, "said Leonardo, who is an imaginary being. Perhaps Madame Pitaux know
something.

- For me it has me, "said Carmen, who Matilde Fashion is none other
than Micaelita Junco.

It happens that she is the most elegant of Havana that his brother, a real dandy, called Juanito,
who has a grandmother named Mrs. Stephanie Menocal - similar name the Moncada - that give fashion.

-
I believe you're right, "said Adela. I can not deny that the dress and hairstyle had yesterday
in the Tour Micaelita Junco figurine identical to Saturday's Fashion before last. Certainly not the
style I liked the Giraffe. The braid is too wide and loops too high, then behind the head
looks awkward. Short sleeves, puffed, with sobremangas of lace, I do seem nice and I feel
good at the one with the arm turning, as Micaelita. His brother Johnny, who greeted us at the
fountain of Neptune, Remember?, Was also the same as the fashion plate fashion. We sat pants
Mahon no creases, white waistcoat and jacket of green cloth without portfolios. This is fashion
English, they say. Did you notice the hat?

The cup stumbling in the branches of trees of Alameda to be a chiquirritín Juanito Junco.

- The tie is what I peta, Leonardo said. Is so high that no game left neck. Do not ever use. I
do not like these dog collars. Nor do I Petan the coats to dernier, [26] seem to zacatecas.
The narrow skirts down to the knees and it seems to me the fashion that we have tried to imitate
the tail of the swallows.

Envelope that has been committed Frederick dress in the English and we are better found with
French fashions.

Uribe has more grace, if not more skillful scissors.

- Do not jump to Uribe, who is a mulatto tailor Wall Street and does not know jack of fashions
of Paris or London, said Carmen with marked contempt.

- Do not think like the main people of Havana, Leonardo replied promptly. The Montalvo, the
Romeros, the Guanajay Herrera Valdés, Count of the Meeting, Filomeno, the Marquis Morales Peñalver,
Fernandina ... do not dress to another tailor. I prefer to Frederick. The further receives periodic
Paris fashion by all packets [27] Havre.

As entertaining conversation between the brothers, the coachman stopped performing with the fourth
enshrined in the right wrist and hat round in the left to announce that the chitin was ready
at the door. Instantly the two younger sisters went in search of greater and its features
together blankets and surrounded the mother ask your service. This lady made them the custom
of some shopping at lingerie shops, or clothing, and then drove them through the vestibule to
the street.

No wonder the reader stranger to see three ladies of the class can
be called average take to the streets of Havana without owner, father,
mother or brother that accompany them.

But so other than on foot or to pay visits of etiquette, it could two, three more young people,
driving all over town, to shop, pick with the Spanish waiters stores and on the nights of retreat
in the Plaza de Armas or the Alameda de Paula, to receive the steps
of the carriage the homage of his friends and the adoration of his
fans.

Yes, even for a visit in the vicinity of his home and on foot, custom demanded that the Cuban when had
no relative respect, should accompany even the same slave.

Upon entering the chitin Carmen, gave her hand to raise a young stranger who happened to go through
there, then Antonia Adela and ultimately, receiving from them in
return for their gallantry, a grateful smile.

     
      Thus, younger and beautiful of the sisters occupied the middle seat,
the less comfortable indeed but undoubtedly the most conspicuous and
proper to display the natural graces habanera wonder.

        Since then, the coachman mounted his horse out of sticks, which by
its smooth step, good picture and carefully braided tail, was both
rest and pride rider, and went to escape the carriage in around the
Plaza Vieja.

CHAPTER XII

Known for its toys the child and guess what must be his works.

Parables of Solomon

They were finally alone Gamboa Rosa Sandoval and his son Leonardo.

It had not taken his father's talent for business. Neither provision announced none for a literary
career that he spent, but I used to write verses and articulejos for the Journal and other newspapers.
His mother, however, wanted to be a lawyer, Doctor of the University of Havana, flattered by the
hope that it could in this way, come to judge of the Audiencia of Puerto Príncipe, and even
Lieutenant Governor, as they called then the real appointing qualified judges. She rightly
believed that by money and relationships of her husband in court, it could be achieved for their firstborn
any grace, honor or title, among the many who, thanks to those stimuli
is used Crown grant.

Merchant, in respect of the father, there was hope that the waiter came to more than mayor,
a chaplain or member of the Commercial Court or Royal Consulate jobs crummy, no honors or emoluments.
Moreover, Don Candido in fact did emphasized that his son should
study and follow this or these other literary career.

"Lawyer? Ni thinking. It aficionaría to lawsuits, and would end with a flow and that of their
clients. Neither Don Candido knew more letters than those of Cato, [28] which had not prevented
accumulation a respectable fortune.

Now, in addition, she gave birth to the desire of the owner, and did not seem right that his
son, at least trucks books or rod trader or doctor's cap, the crown of the count, although there
was a Santovenia, precisely in those days, had the last barter mentioned. Despite his ignorance,
he acknowledged that would not streak as Leonardo man of letters, or as a business, and said
to himself, or was the matter with his wife

- We can not forge illusions. He (his son) will not ever much of himself, though one cares and
spend money in their studies. There is no head but to love and spread
the tuna.

It is known crossbow. But he need not of great knowledge to role in the world?

- Ca! No, sir. Fortunately, that is, God gives you money, son, that you know little worth; reads
Castilian proverb. And money should not be lacking when I die. Then if I get the title Conde de
Casa Gamboa, I intend in Madrid, meets on monis with the nobility, two gadgets these with the
more gross may appear on the front, enjoying privileges and lying to snore soundly, certain
and sure that does not trample on debts before you will draw all hat, cherry-picked and will
bring the water before you dance, like the boys large, men women
beautiful crest.

Ah! What time is lost! If I had ten years has called, we sang a different story.

Indeed, Leonardo discovered less ambition than talent. Granted, the hope of being something for
their knowledge, their education or for their industry, never warmed his heart. Confident that
before the death of their parents would be very rich, not any effort made to know, and he hurried
to study the lessons of law, and laughed out loud when in jest, it was said among the family
that he might become a judge or count, or that its father had built in Spain, to the owner,
a family tree that had not to be not a drop of Jewish blood or brown. Moreover, so humble
was to seasoning their inclinations, their strong and unruly passions.

Benefit was, at that time at least, the supreme law of his soul. Because
her mother because I loved him too, anyone would believe that, far
from disempowered govern their impulses, appeared pleasure in them
loose. What could experience a boy needs his years and occupations?
Books, clothing, horses, carriages, servants, money, everything was
left over, nor the work order almost never had, because from the cradle
had grown accustomed to seeing satisfied their wishes and even whims,
just indicated. With all this, no day passed without being made Mother
some expensive gift, also taking the habit of putting every afternoon
The vest pocket half an ounce of gold, sometimes an ounce. Naturally,
as entered that money and left, unaware of its value, and how bad
it was never passed through the mind the prodigal son, which should
save for tomorrow what is not needed for expenses today. How our gold
poured beardless student? The gentleman is the fussiest Leonardo of all my
clients. Can not you see that nothing in wealth? Do not see how to shed the money? To what
it costs! And you see his father Don Candido, the other day as it were, walked with leg on the
floor. I think I see him when he arrived from his land brought empleita shoes (Pleita meant
better, sandals), jacket and trousers of cloth and cloth cap. A little put more wood and tile
shop, then brought black Africans in droves, then married with a girl who was witty, then you
came money for all four sides and is now caballerazo first one, her daughters chitin roll
couple and their son ounces of gold boot water as one boot. And meanwhile the poor girl ... But
shut up language. Well, according to I said, Jose Dolores, Leonardo gentleman came here last
week and said: - Master Uribe, you have the undivided green cloth I made specifically to bring
Paris that you make me a jacket as it should. But you let the old ages, perched on waist the
neck, or tails of swallows. I'm not Zacatecan, Johnny Reed, and Peter Montalvo. Do me a jacket
like the people, the dernier, I know that you know paint on the body, when he wants. That boy has
so much money, it is necessary to please or burst. In addition, he is so smart and handsome,
the tone in fashion, and if I am right to do one thing good, I wear boots. Although to be honest,
I have no hands to all the work I've dropped. Where it is clear that the jurisdiction of English
Frederick, away from damaged, they has helped me. So, my dear Jose Dolores, the accoutrement.

-
I told you, Senor Uribe, do what I can, but sepal, will not have time to give last hand. The main
thing, however, is made, that is, the collar and neck.

Frame of the skirts and back you can handle it, and the eyelets nobody does it better than sign
Clara.

- Bring the coat.

The officer brought her, and her hand to suspend the eye level, Uribe walked to a mirror in
the dividing wall of the first window and door. There followed mechanically José Dolores. When
the two were in front of the mirror, he said the master to his officer

-
Come on, Jose Dolores, you served as a model ... Hastily, you have
the same body as the gentleman Leonardo.

- Okay, Sr. Uribe, "replied
Pepper lousy mood.

But no copy eh?

- My friend, you little words live today. What is carving you in there?

Took before one of the girls Gamboa Cecilia Valdés, now you get mad because, to save time, I taste
the brother's coat on your body. If you do this target because it treads the shadow, worst
thing you can do is take it to heart. What remedy, José Dolores? Conceal, hold on. Do as the
dog with wasps, baring teeth into believing that you laugh. Can not you see they are the hammer
and the anvil us? The whites came first and eat best slices, we of color came later, and thanks
Roemer bones. Leave run, Chinaman, who ever has to touch us. This can not last forever as well.
Do what I do. Do not you see me kiss a lot of hands I want to see cut? You appear to me comes
from within. No way, because the truth and true is that target verb, not I dread the paper.

-
Which law so brave, Sr. Uribe! Could not help but exclaim how low the officer, surprised rather
than alarmed that entertained early as severe.

- Why, "continued the master tailor, have you figured that because I am making rande vu all those
who come into this house, I do not know that I have distinguished
and pride?

You're wrong; man into a verb, believe nobody better than me. "I would estimate at least because
I'm colored? Nonsense. How many counts, lawyers and doctors out there who are ashamed that
their father or mother sat beside them in the chitin, or accompany the Captain General levee in the
days of King or Queen Cristina? Maybe you're not as aware as I am, because no chases you with
greatness. But think again a bit and remember. Do you know the father of the Count ...? As was the
steward of his grandmother. And the father of the Marquise ...? A saddler in Matanzas, cerote
dirtier than they used to smear the pita with harness stitching.
 Thus accoutred, I went to the
'Star Hotel,' where this stranger was,--my heart beating with anxiety, and something telling
me that this Chevalier de Balibari was no other than Barry, of Ballybarry, my father's eldest
brother, who had given up his estate in consequence of his obstinate adherence to the Romish
superstition. Before I went in to present myself, I went to look in the remises at his carriage. 

Siddhartha .-- You know, Iksvacú beautiful granddaughter, that I will not ever shed a tear. How
could I voluntarily give even smaller? I will never depart I on your side, if it were permitted me,
but I ocultártelo no longer: an imperative duty prompts me to go away from you.

GOPA .-- Do not you freaks, do not stray that duty?

Siddhartha .-- I can not hallucinate. My resolution has not been sudden, but born of long and deep meditations.
I want and I can liberate people from poverty, pain and of all evil: show them the way of redemption,
redeeming myself. My intelligence, abstracting all, disregarding the illusory pleasures that gives
us the Universe, own self-contemplation, in ecstasy, will gradually reaching the highest wisdom,
rising on the summit of the gods and the asuras, acquiring magical power to break the Law fatal chain
of causes, and, finally, arrive at their spirit high, made all the virtue of its essence,
be extinguished forever, as the flame is extinguished when Give the world all the light and
the warmth that is in it latent. My life will be like example and sampler for those who aspire,
like me, to leave the stormy field of life and moving without end, and find eternal peace.
Amor fatal work, an outpouring of their divine essence was this universe so full of pain. Sean Love
reflective piece of annihilation, the silence and the rest to save us from the tumult and war.
Limitation and decline are the foundation of our lives as individuals. Breaking the limit, we complete
being to have no decline them, when our life without limits, and entire, without diminution
or failure will be like if not. One of his eyes was closed with a black
patch, however; he wore a little white and red paint, by no means an unusual ornament in those
days; and a pair of moustaches, which fell over his lip and hid a mouth that I afterwards found
had rather a disagreeable expression. When his beard was removed, the upper teeth appeared
to project very much; and his countenance wore a ghastly fixed smile, by no means pleasant. 

Multiple Wives, and even some lady too, had advised. But the idea of ​​leaving the son of her womb
in the hands of women employees sordid and brutal horror had forever. He fought bravely as he
could, depriving it of necessary sustenance enough times to feed the child, which already had
about three years. He had, however, to the fight and was defeated. He was the use of begging,
but besides the horror that caused him, understood very well that his days were numbered. And dying
it, what would become of the creature?

He pondered a good room with dry eyes fixed on the child, repeating from time to time the same
phrase:

- No, not go to the hospice!

Rose suddenly animated by a fatal desire, kissed her son passionately until managed to wake him,
envolviolo in a blanket and holding it at arms out of the house.

It was the hour of dusk. From the top of the worms, where Basilisa lived, could be seen arriving
the wharf and fishing boats. A crowd awaited them.

On the square, and the long street running from it to the church
by the sea, also ran a lot of people.

Basilisa took Rodillero the road that encircles the opposite side
gives the small cove Peñascosa front by front, and hurried away, almost
running.

- Why are you, Mom?

Where are we going? - Asked the boy with his tiny hands stroking
his face.

- We go to heaven, my love - said the unhappy eyes clouded
with tears.

- Are we going to Dad?

Could not answer, he felt a lump in my throat.

- Come to Daddy?

"- Insisted the young.

He paused a moment to catch his breath.

- Yes, let's see, rich mine - said after .-- Do not you want to go
to heaven with him?

- No, I with you.

And at the same time choked with tender arms and covered her face
with kisses.

- Why are you crying, Mom? - Asked surprised to feel
on the lips bitterness of tears .-- Can not you got anything?

Take my horn ...

And he offered a lead that had cost Basilisa two quarters. For Gil, who did not understand
existence without messing with something, the greatest misfortune that could be weighed on a was
human hands are empty.

The mother pressed her against his chest, laid on her rosy cheeks a shower of kisses and continued
the race. At a certain spot where the road is separated from the shore the sea and then, let
them fall and took a veredita leading to it. He came to the rocks tall dark surrounding it on
that road. He put his son on the floor and kneeling then tearfully prayed a prayer tablets, not
being addressed in the form, it should not listen to the Almighty.

It was almost dark. The sea was still, dark, waiting impassively to tears of that unfortunate woman
should come as so bitter to increase the flow of its waters. Side of the creek there was the
silhouette of the pier and three or four pataches that usually lie at anchor nearby. The group
of fishing boats, a little apart, moving and still ringing with the cries of women employed
in opening the fish's belly, while the husband lay seriously as a
tavern in the town.

Attended Basilisa a moment to those sounds so familiar. She also hoped her husband at one time,
stroking her with his eyes upon arrival, took from his hands the water binder, the case of rigging
and the basket of supplies and took them home with joy.

Mariano coming soon later and sat at the fireside, with dancing between
his paws to cute boy which had a few months.

The widow was a long time staring at the bank group, which appeared
as a report and movable mass. His son, sitting on the lawn, playing
the trumpet jamming ground.

Suddenly came to him, lifted his arms and ran toward the thin edge.

- Mom! Where are we going? - Shouted the child.

The answer, if he gave it, must be from heaven. Momentum jumped into a tailspin. Falling on the
stones of the shore, broke his head was dead on the spot: the child miraculously saved. The
womb from which he now poured out not to break apart spring.

An old sailor, who was at that time among those rocks for fishing
for octopus, heard noise and provided the first aid to the child.

Ran to the news soon flooded the place of people. The case produced a deep impression. Women
wept and went to tender infant from hand to hand and caresses lavished a thousand cares. Many
offered to adopt and there was dispute over who had to take it. Aware ladies of the village
and moved, also wanted to pick up the orphan. The fishermen's wives then gave to do so in the
interest of the former. It was therefore held by Ms Eloisa, Mrs. D. Martin Houses, seconded by another
six or eight ladies in no way wanted to give up participation as charitable work.

Gil's childhood (which was the name the orphan), if not happy, was not unhappy. Their protective
vigilance exercised over him a bit cheeky at times, a little humiliating too, but always loving and
well intentioned. Between them, although taking Ms main part Eloisa, paid for the upbringing
and boarding in a couple's house craftsman who lived in the worms, near the house where the
unfortunate widow lived. When was too old for this, he was sent to school. Showed signs of
being a kid peaceful, quiet, sensitive, and began to learn their lessons well. His seven or eight
mothers were in charge ask the master for his behavior and application
whenever you encountered on the street encouraging him to 'put you
tighten the screws.

"The teacher was responsible, in effect, tighten while reminding every moment, in front of his classmates,
his orphan their misery and the absolute necessity of showing that
he had humble and grateful to his beneficent.

This humility was the thing that never stopped singing to hear at the villa. How he stumbled
in the street and deigned to put his hand paternally on the head, they said:

- Beware of being humble!

Be obedient and submissive to the ladies that you have collected for charity Do you understand?
... charity.

And finally, his classmates were responsible generously was constantly warn an unhappy without
parents, nurtured by love and that should be in the hospice and non- alternating with distinguished
sons of shoemakers, masons, tailors and bakers fashioned, and leading other people no less worthy
of respect.

Teníala humility in the heart of the drowned child and the suicide,
if not had not it would be easy to ridicule and scorn inculcate their
peers, or the parental spanking the teacher and their protective,
because they all thought they were entitled to love, but to punish
him too.

His was a nature lover and appreciated. He understood that Protecting all should respect and
affection, and is taxed. Of course, in the depths of his heart felt preferences, that is irremediable.
Passionately loved Ms Eloisa. This good lady, who was the one most needed, never scolded or
punished, or even a word I said unpleasant tratábalo with extreme tenderness, caressed him as if
he were his son and hid and excused his little antics.

When he was twelve years old, met in conclave ladies and deliberated about what should be done
with the boy. Desechose unanimously the idea of ​​devoting to the office of his father. They thought
of several others, without being able to agree, until Ms Trinidad, the wife of D. Remigio Flórez,
a manufacturer of canned food, take a servant proposed messenger boy home. They nodded almost all
of this resolution, but Ms Eloisa, who was hurt, did this to her
friends that the boy had shown aptitude for studies, and would a meritorious
work to make him a priest.

The ladies have welcomed the idea enthusiastically. Only Ms Trinidad, large dotted lady and friend
to impose its will around the world, opposed strongly and withdrew from the meeting bland. Pasáronse
ladies without their help, and setting a monthly amount, would be paid to cleavage, sent the
boy Lancia seminar, capital of the province where we are.

Gil was a model seminarian, applied, sweet, respectful, caring religious practices and showing great
enthusiasm in them. The ladies who had no reason to congratulate the resolution. When I came to
Peñascosa holiday, brought to each Rector's letter expressing his satisfaction with the conduct
and progress of the fatherless. In the two or three months I stayed there, they provided some
services, reviewing the lessons to their children, assisting them in their prayers or serving as
a clerk, etc. Lived home of Ms Eloisa. Every summer they would turn a little, the child became
a man. At last he three consecutive years to come, to take the last orders. Decision time to become
a priest. When he appeared at last a day in costume Peñascosa priest, his presence caused deep emotion
in the heart of their protection. All mothers were considered him, and therefore entitled to
mourn for joy and fell into his arms tenderly.

Certainly, these reliefs were once loving some bickering between them. Because less loving
and tolerant with the child had shown were most extreme now with the man. This out of their
boxes to Ms. Eloisa, Ms Ms Theodora and Martial, always treated him with gentleness and even
mime.

Preparations began for the first mass. It was a contest of beauties among them. The rich, as
Ms Eloisa and Mrs Theodora, was commissioned to buy the cup and ornaments more expensive: those
who did not have such good fortune, as Ms Rita Ms Filomena and others, supplied the money with the
skill of his hands embroidering the alb, stole and altar cloth, which caused admiration. Fixed
the church and took part in the adornment not only these women, but many of the people, their friends.
It was an event Peñascosa brand, both for the quality of the people
who had paid for the race young priest, for the terrible circumstances
that had led to such protection.

The officiating was named godmother to Ms. Eloisa, an indication
of that.

None was better right to do so, but all are believed to both, and
this secret resentments rise again palabrillas and some unpleasant.

The pay he returned to the village and sang, his voice weak and trembling

-
Dominus vobiscum.

All the voices of the podium, tears and falls, accompanied by the roar answered body:

- Et cum spiritu tuooooo.

- What is white! - Said a young artisan's companion at his side.

- Looks like a picture.

Sang D. Narciso high-pitched voice, lowering and raising the tone and listened with pleasure,
epistle.

- Child, how repicotea the chaplain! - Repeated the craft.

- You see, there is the daughter of the hunchback. Want to show off.

He was very kind accredited in the town that D. Narcissus and the girl felt a mutual Osuna inclination,
but only the spirits heterodox and thugs dared to say high voice. D. Narcissus was indeed given
much to live among the weaker sex to enter the fort. So would Sarrió came about three years,
more or less, was the idol of the ladies Cliff by his elegant appearance, which was contrast
to the shabbiness of the most priests of the town, for his cheerful conversation, for his little
jokes and, above all, his love to be always among them. Was far from being beautiful or handsome,
was a man of thirty-five, dry, dark, big feet and juanetudos and ugly teeth; but had managed
to pass at once funny place. I never meant it to his devotees friends. Little joke goes, has
little joke, a compliment to this, a chufleta to the other, non-shortened never to be in the middle
of a large circle. In contrast, D. Narcissus extremely pleased it, enjoyed camp alone in the
house. Directed the consciousness of most of them and authorizing the lecture them out of the confessional,
sometimes harshly. Almost all received submit your corrections with, even with pleasure, and
if you temporarily revolted, was to demand forgiveness immediately. With this, Don Narciso was
the guest required in all Gaudeamus parties and fashionable society Peñascosa, ate voraciously,
and this made boast, drank the same tenor, and when the desserts arrived, never failed to
provide any coplita that was almost always dirty. Because D. Narcissus, who because of his
ministry not be authorized jokes concerning sex sex relationships are entitled to believe drop
the most nasty about other miseries of the human body. And ladies bizarre case! the laughing
and celebrating as if they were prodigious cleverness and wit. Two years later to come to the
villa had been a failure. Down the stairs of a certain house he frequented much, he broke his leg.
They said the lady's husband, who owned the house had helped to drop, not entirely agree with
the time and occasion of their visits; but instantly the good souls of Peñascosa rushed to
quell the rumor sacrilegious. And as proof of the indignation with which rejected the case, most
major ladies the town was formed in nurses beside his bed, leaving not a moment alone day and
night taking turns every few hours, as if the Blessed hiciesen guard. D. Daffodil deserved such
attention of the fair sex.

No harder and never dealt fervent zeal the salvation of the beautiful half of mankind. Not only addressed
with particular care awareness of that best represented in Peñascosa,
shepherding his sheep with love thus leaving some stone throwing which
strayed as diligent pastor era, but by dint of many sleepless nights
had been found a fraternity, established and in other parts of Spain
and abroad, the brotherhood of the Daughters of Mary.

In this brotherhood not fall more than young singles. Such privilege excited a vague defiance
mixed of appetite in married women. Creíanse humiliated with that exclusion. D. Narciso advantage
this shadow of rivalry to keep them more prone.

- Oh, ladies, should not envy you the privilege! You have husbands who look and serve.

She said in an ironic twang showing hostility secret that the chaplain was to all the husbands.
The ladies, upon whom the charms of fascination and those not exercising
some, forced smile and mischievously as saying: "Ya, ya!"

It was rumored that more in love with him. Ms Marciala, the wife of the apothecary of the place,
had gone to Sarrió to bring socks to be a priest passing time with
her family.

Ms Filomena widow of a lieutenant, his only son was going to help to Mass every day. No However,
he had noticed in him a preference Obdulia, the daughter of Osuna, administrator Montesinos.

- But it really did go like? - Asked the young artisan, listening
to his companion expressed so clearly.

- Girl, I do not know!

What I can say is that D. Narcissus leaves the house, and many days of my window I see them run one
after another in the garden of Montesinos playing tag ... So much so that I told.

- Have you told him! - Exclaimed the other, stunned.

- Yes, girl
... Can not you see I confess to him?

... There was nothing ... I said, 'Look, D. Narciso ... do not be offended ... but I, you and
Obdulia watching them play in the garden, I have suspicions ... I can think evil thoughts. "

- Ave Maria, how awful! And what did he say?

- He got all choked ... Ugh! Began to say: "For you and others like you lose credit and honor
priests and religious decay! "I called bag of malice, that seemed I lie that such atrocities happen,
and here and there ... At first I wanted to eat, then went quieting ... "You're right, D. Narciso,
I answered, but I can not help ... "And it's true, girl I can not help it ... I can not!

After the letter Peñascosa pastor sang the Gospel. His voice was rough without inflections. Without
looking completely distracted sang just the book, raising their young eyes and hard over the
glasses to look at him, rather, to spray look to the son of the Pepaina, which was secretly
pulling out the candles babas and pocketing. Although one of the most shameless rascals of the
town Parrot (which by that name was known this young man distinguished) was upset and tantico restless
under the gaze of the clergy. The thing with good reason. D. Miguel Vigil, pastor Rocky, since
25 of this century was one of the worst men genius of Spain, and do not exaggerate if we say
nothing of the globe. Had at the time eighty-two years, was high, dry, sharp features, thick
brows together, small and piercing eyes. Still had great physical vigor, and what is even
rarer, in his remaining hair barely noticed the gray. The duration of the first civil war,
left the flock and went to the Basque provinces to fight with weapons in hand for the cause
of the Pretender. He returned a few years. His character was not softened brave long walk to
Shot in the mountains. Peñascosa parishioners had in it much like a shepherd a captain of
robbers. Nobody raised the rooster in the population. The most difficult cases of consciousness used
to resolve D. Miguel in a flash with a half dozen punches or well-directed kicks. Marcellin,
the Cosme, tape was the daughter of Laureana the weaver and would not marry her. D. Miguel is
planted in the house of Cosimo, picked Marcelino by the ears, gave him three slaps turtleneck, and fifteen
days, like it or not, had them married. Ramon denied the confectioner, D. Cipriano two thousand reales
to it by had given no receipt. The priest called for Ramon to his
house, shut himself in a room with him, I took a stick and forced
to sign a receipt.

Through these procedures theological D. Miguel evangelical morality instilled among the souls entrusted
to their care.

Were not you like the latest in worship. Looked down on the clerics who sought introducing them
and took care of the dress and grooming. Tolerated them because they knew they were supported
by the bishop and the higher clergy of the diocese, but laughed at them at all times in a manner
rude, irritating, and I used them a few tricks malignant spoil any of those mystic revelry
that put more effort. We tried, for example, to hold a communion general girls with orchestral
accompaniment. The day was marked, D. Miguel sent the church with a gang of carpenters who
were placed to fix the platform with horrendous hammer, preventing concerted hear voices and instruments
of music. Other sometimes required the assiduous penitents D. Narciso-examining Christian doctrine
or While the singing in church banned after a month of rehearsals, or withdrawing from the altar
cloths that they had embroidered aplanchado, or threw in some chapel where they had assume its real, etc.,
etc. These acts of despotism earned the enmity habíanle of the Gallic clergy and female. A D. Miguel
gave a farthing for such animosity. The enjoyment of his life was not loved or admired, but do
all the time and chance their will. Furthermore, it could have all the defects they want their
enemies, but nobody ever knew shadow bias towards weaker sex. Positively despised women, believed
that none was able to say or do anything with common sense.

In his manly character seemed embodied the Roman spirit, which denied women the power to govern
itself never.

Neither is believed to D. Miguel was shown not obedient to his superiors. The bishop had trouble
an immense understanding with him. If you sent an order, without giving it cures archived compliance,
if I turned a visit, it would get in bed pretending to be sick to see him. Concluded by ignore
him and let him go with it. Peñascosa did not confess but half a dozen veterans of the civil
war. Other parishioners were split between chaplains assigned to the parish for four-fifths
of the women relied on burdens of their weaknesses to the irresistible
D. Narciso.

D. Miguel felt no despondency for this preference. And yet, the small number of his penitents was assured
that confessor prudent, discreet and delicate questions.

Finished reading the Gospel and could see the satisfaction of looking
around with persistence Lorito movements. Why was this rogue so distracted
looking at the rapt gallery in hearing the melodies of the organ,
if not for two seconds that he had seen getting into his pocket half
a pound of wax at least? "Where is my servant?" roar I. "Who
dares to rob me in open day? Look at the villain whom I find in the act of breaking my chest
open! Send for the police, send for his Excellency the Austrian Minister! all Europe shall
know of this insult!"

'"Dear Heaven!" says the landlord, "we saw you go away three hours ago!"

'"ME!" says I; "why, man, I have been in bed all the morning. I am ill--I have taken physic--I
have not left the house this morning! Where is that scoundrel Ambrose? But, stop! where are
my clothes and wig?" for I was standing before them in my chamber-gown and stockings, with
my nightcap on.

'"I have it--I have it!" says a little chambermaid: "Ambrose is off in your honour's dress." But I, who saw things differently, I was creeping until a French column
came to stand before me in such a provision, that my shots could enfilade from one extreme to another.
The French are the line with great perfection. Tome While pointing with one of the parts, engineering
looks at the head of the first soldier ... Do you understand? ... As the line was so perfect
shot, and wham, the ball was percent forty-two heads, and did not fall further because the end
of the line moved a little. What caused great consternation in the enemy, but as they did not understand
my strategy or could see myself in the place where it was, they sent another column to attack
the troops to my right, and that column had the same luck, and another and another, until the
battle was won.

- It's wonderful - "my master, who, knowing the magnitude of the ball,
he would not, however, lie to his friend.

- For the second campaign
under the command of Union County, sloughing also a great time Republicans.

Boulou's defense, we did not go well, because we ran out of ammunition: I, however did a great
destruction carrying a piece with the keys of the church, but they not many, and finally, as a source
of despair, I put in my barrel bore keys, my watch, my money, I found few trinkets in his pockets,
and finally to my crosses. What is unique is that one of these was to be printed on the chest
of a French general where he was almost frozen and unharmed. He kept it, and when he went to Paris,
Convention do not know if he was sentenced to death or exile for having admitted decorations an enemy
government.

- What mischief! - Whispered my love indulging with such droll inventions.

-
When I was in England continued the old Malespina ...-- - you know
that the Government English I was sent to perfect the Artillery of
that country ... Everyday eating Pitt, with Burke, with Lord North,
in general and other VIPs Conwallis I called the funny Spanish.

I remember once being at the palace, begged me to show them how it
was one, and I had to ride, chop and kill a chair, which amused much
to the whole court, especially when King George III, who was very
buddy of mine and always said that he commanded me to get my good
olives land.

Oh, I was confident me. Every effort was to teach him words of Spanish and, especially some of
this our gracious Andalusia, but never learned more than any other bull and come these five,
phrase that greeted me every day when I went to lunch with him and a few straws Whiting Jerez.

-
It was what he liked best. I was carrying bottled whiting Cadiz: conservábase very well with
a specific invented, whose recipe I have at home.

- Wonderful. What you reformed British Artillery? - Asked my master, encouraging him to follow
because it greatly amused .-- Completely. They invented a cannon that fired, because all of London,
including the Court and the Ministers, came to beg him not to do the test for fear that the
dither many houses fell to the ground.

- "So this great piece has been forgotten?

- Wanted to buy the Emperor of Russia, but was unable to move from the place where it was.

- Well, could you get us out of trouble by inventing a cannon shot to destroy a the British
fleet.

- Oh! - Answered Malespina -. In this I am thinking, and I think I
can do my thinking.

And I will show you the calculations that I have done, not only to increase to an extent great
caliber artillery pieces, but to build strength plates to defend
the ships and castles.

It is the thought of my life. "

In all they had completed eating. We gobbled up in a heartbeat and I Marcial leftovers and
continue the journey on horseback, marching in step, and we as before
in our crippled buggy.

Frequent food and drinks with the dew still further excited Malespina vein of the old inventor,
who went all the way broaching its great nonsense. The conversation turned to the issue of where
it started: a war of Roussillon; as D. Joseph made haste to refer new feats, my love, tired
of lying so much, wanted to divert him from that area, and said:

"Disastrous war and impolitic. Plus we would have been better not to have taken!

- Oh! - Said Malespina -. El Conde de Aranda, as you know, condemned
from the beginning this disastrous war with the Republic.

How we talked about this issue! ... because we friends since childhood. When I was in Aragon,
spent seven months together hunting in Moncayo. Indeed I build for him a unique gun ...

- Yes: Aranda always opposed - said my master, shortcuts on the dangerous
path of ballistics.

- Indeed - continued the liar - and if that great
man so warmly defended the peace with the Republicans, it was because
I advised him, convincing before the untimeliness of war.

More Godoy, who even then was valid, she persisted in continuing
it, just take the contrary, as I understood later.

The funny thing is that it was forced Godoy to conclude the war in the summer of 95, he realized
its ineffectiveness, and then claimed himself the resounding title of Prince of Peace.

- What we are lacking, Don José María - "my love - of a great man of state to the rise to the occasion,
a man we do not meddle in useless wars and keep intact the dignity of the Crown!

- Well, when I was in Madrid last year - continued the liar - I made proposals to carry out
the Secretary of State. The Queen was very hard at it, and King said no nothing ... Every day
he came with Brown to pull a couple of shots ... Even the Godoy had
formed, knowing my superiority, and if not, I would have missed a
little castle where shutting him not to give me to do.

But I refused, preferring to live quietly in my town, and left the public business in the hands of Godoy.
There you have a man whose muleteer father was in the meadow that my father had in Extremadura.

-
Do not know ...-- said D. Alonso -. Although obscure man, I thought that the Prince of Peace
belonged to a noble family of little wealth, but of good principles. "

Thus continued the dialogue, Mr. Malespina dropping balls like temples, and I love hearing them
with holy calm, seeming sometimes angry and pleased to hear other
such nonsense.

If I remember correctly, also said D. Jose Maria, who had advised Napoleon dared made of 18 Brumaire.

With
these and other things we went to sleep in Chiclana, and my master,
horribly broken and bruised movement because of perjured gig, stayed
in the village, while others followed, eager to get to Cadiz on the
same night.

While they dined, saddled Malespina new lies, and I could see that his son could hear with regret,
as embarrassed to have at father the biggest liar who created the earth. They took their leave,
we rest until the next day at dawn, at which time we continued our journey, and how it was
much more convenient and unobstructed from Chiclana Cadiz in the
stretch run, we at the end of our journey at about eleven o'clock,
no new health and soul cheerful.

-VIII-

I can not describe the enthusiasm
aroused in my soul back a. As I have a moment of freedom, after my
master was installed in the house of his cousin, went to streets and
ran them with no fixed address, intoxicated with the atmosphere of
my beloved city.

After long absence, which had seen so often enchanted my attention as something new and extremely
beautiful. In many people was the way he saw a face friend, and everything was nice and sunny
for me: men, women, old people, children, dogs, even houses, for my youthful imagination watched
it I do not know what staff and lively, I represented as sentient beings, it seemed that involved
the general happy for my arrival, mimicking on their balconies and windows of the features
of a face jubilant. My spirit was reflected in everything outside their own joy.

Ran through the streets with great anxiety, as if in one minute would
see them all.

In the Plaza de San Juan de Dios bought some candy, but for the pleasure of eating, by pleased
to introduce composition to the vendors, whom I spoke as a former friends, recognizing some
as favoring in my previous misery, and others as victims, not yet
appeased, my innocent fondness for loitering.

Most did not remember me, but some I was greeted with insults, recalling the exploits of my
childhood and making humorous comments as on my new packing and the severity of my person,
I had to leave in a hurry, no without hurt my decorum some fruit peel thrown by hand against my
expert new suit. As was the consciousness of my formality, these jokes more pride caused me what
a pity.

Then toured the wall and told all the boats anchored in sight.

I talked to a few sailors I found the step, saying that I was going to the top, and asking
in a tone very emphatic if there washed up Nelson's fleet. After I told them that Mr. Horn was
a coward, and that the next show would be good.

I came at last to the inlet, and there my joy knew no bounds. I went down to, and removing shoes,
jumped from rock to rock, I looked for my old friends of both sexes, but not found but very few: some
were men and had embraced best race, others had been shipped by the cam, and those who remained
barely recognized me. The moving water surface wake voluptuous sensations in my chest. Unable
to resist temptation, and compelled by mysterious lure of the sea, whose eloquent rumor has always
seemed to me I do not know why, a voice asks sweetly in the bonanza,
or call with urgent anger in the storm, undressed in a hurry and jumped
on him as he throws himself into the arms of a loved one.

I swam for over an hour, experiencing an indescribable pleasure, and then getting dressed, I continued
my ride to the Vine neighborhood, whose uplifting taverns found some
of the most famous lost my glorious time.

Talking to them, I threw them a man of mettle, and as that I spent on giving away a few rooms
had. I asked for my uncle, but did not give me any news of his seniority, and then we had chatted
a bit, made me a drink of spirit which gave the point with my poor body on land.

During the strongest of my intoxication, I believe those scoundrels laughed at me As they felt like
it, but once I calmed a bit, I left the tavern avergonzadísimo. Although it was terribly hard,
I wanted to stop by my old house, and saw the door to a woman frying tattered blood and guts.
Moved home before my birth, I could not crying, which, seen from
this heartless woman, fancied scorn or stratagem to steal your chips.

I, therefore, to get rid of their hands the way of my feet, leaving for another day the relief
of my feelings.

I wanted to see after the old cathedral, which meant one of the most tender memories of my childhood,
and went into it: his compound seemed charming, and I've never walked the aisles temple one with
such religious worship.

I think I got the urge to pray, and I did indeed, kneeling at the altar where my mother had
put a former voting my salvation. The character of wax which I thought was my perfect portrait
hung there, and took his place with the severity of the holy things, but I looked like an egg
to a chestnut. One doll, symbolizing piety and maternal love, filled me, however, respect to the
quick. I prayed on his knees for a while remembering the suffering and death My good mother,
who already had God in heaven, but as my head was not good, because of the fumes of cursed spirits,
when I got up I fell, and an inveterate sexton nicely put me on the
street.

In a few strides I went to the Noodle, where he resided, and my master, as I entered, I was
scolded for my long absence. If that had been missing committed to Dona Francisca, I would not
have escaped a severe beating, but my master was tolerant and I never punished, perhaps because
he was conscious of being so young like me.

We had gone to reside at the home of the cousin of my master, who was a lady, whom the reader
I will describe some prolixity, because it deserves such. Doña Flora Cisniega was an old lady who
insisted on staying young, had more than fifty years, but put in practice every conceivable artifice
to fool the world, appearing half that terrifying figure. Say how much invented the science
and art in harmonious partnership to achieve this object, it is business that is for my little strength.
Enumerating curls, bows, ribbons, rags, marinades, vermilion, water and other extraneous bodies
who attended to the great work of his monumental restoration, would fatigue the most skilled
fantasy stay This, then, for pens of novelists, if ever, the great seeker things are not appropriate
as beautiful affair.

Regarding his physical, as I have is this the set of his face, which seemed to have set their rosy
all the brushes Schools present and past. I also remember talking with lips made a face, a retreat,
a mime, intended, or out to grace the huge mouth, or hide the havoc on the teeth, from whose
ranks deserted every year a couple of teeth, but that supine ploy of the presumption was so
unfortunate, which formerly disfigured the beautified.

Dressed in luxury, and his hair was spent by almudes powders, and as he had bad meat judging by
proclaiming the wide neckline and left transparent so the gauze, every effort was to show
off those parts less sensitive to the injurious action time, for which purpose he had a wonderful
art.

Doña Flora person was very in love with old things, very devout, but not the holy Dona Francisca
mercy on me, and greatly differed from my mistress, as well as hated it naval glories, it was
keen for all men of war in general and seafarers in particular. Inflamed patriotic love, as in the
maturity of its existence could not aspire to the warmth of another
love, and extremely proud as a woman and a lady Spanish, national
sentiment was associated in his mind the roar of cannon, and believed
that the greatness of the people is measured by pounds of gunpowder.

Having no children, occupied gossip life of residents, brought in and carried in a small circle
of two or three cotorrones like her, and also to its systematic distracted fans to talk about
public affairs. Then there were no newspapers, and political ideas, as well as news circulated
of living voice, altering then more than now, it has always been
that the word liar printing.

In all large cities, especially in Cadiz, which was then the most educated, had many unemployed
persons who were the bearers of the news from Madrid and Paris, and vehicles carried and brought
diligent, proud with a mission that gave them great importance. Some of them, living as a
newspaper, were attending the house of that Lady in the afternoon, and this, in addition to
good chocolate and best buns, attracted to other anxious to know what happened. Doña Flora, and he
could not inspire a passion formal, or removed off the heavy grief of his fifty years, that role
had not exchanged for another any difference as the general center of the news at that time
was almost equivalent to the majesty a throne.

Dona Francisca Dona Flora and cordially hated, you understand who
consider militarism exalted one and the timidity of the other peaceful.

Therefore, talking with his cousin on the day of our arrival, the old saying:

"If you had always ignored your wife, you'd still be a midshipman. What character! If I were
a married man and woman like, burst like a bomb. You have done well not to follow your advice
and come to the square. You're still young, Alonsito, you can still achieve the rank of brigadier,
who'd already Paca sure if I had not taken a fits as the chickens do not leave the yard. "

Then,
as my master, driven by his curiosity, asked you news, she said:

"The main thing is that all the sailors here are very unhappy with
the French admiral, has proved its ineptitude in the trip to Martinique
and in combating Finisterre.

This is shyness, and fear that has the English who come here to the squad combined Last August
did not dare to seize the British cruiser sent by Collingwood, and only consisted of three
ships. All our officers are very sorry for being obliged to serve
command of such a man.

Gravina was in Madrid to tell Godoy, providing large slights if she did not head of the fittest
man squad, but the Minister replied anything, because they dare not solve anything, and as
Bonaparte he's involved with the Austrians, while he has not decided ... They say he is also very
unhappy and has Villeneuve determined to dismiss him, but in the meantime ... Ah! Napoleon
should entrust the command of the fleet some Spanish, you, for example,
Alonsito, giving three or four degrees of Mogollon, which a well-deserved
faith you have them ...

- Oh, I am not for that - my master said
with his usual modesty.

- O or Gravina, who say it is as good sailor.

If not, I fear this will end badly. Here can not see the French.

Imagine that when Villeneuve came lacked boats of food and ammunition in the arsenal they are
not wanted to.
 They say the costume was incorrect, and have changed it since;
but for my part, I have never seen a Venus more lovely than the Coralie, who was the chief
dancer, and found no fault with the attendant nymphs, in their trains, and lappets, and powder.
These operas used to take place twice a week, after which some great officer of the Court would
have his evening, and his brilliant supper, and the dice-box rattled everywhere, and all the
world played. I have seen seventy play-tables set out in the grand gallery of Ludwigslust,
besides the faro-bank; where the Duke himself would graciously come and play, and win or lose
with a truly royal splendour.

It was hither we came after the Mannheim misfortune. The nobility of the Court were pleased
to say our reputation had preceded us, and the two Irish gentleman were made welcome. The very
first night at Court we lost 740 of our 800 louis; the next evening, at the Court Marshal's
table, I won them back, with 1300 more. As for the French, it is not necessary say that
as we had so many losses. Except for the four ships that were removed with Dumanoir not going to fire
stain in a long time could not shake the Imperial Navy, heroically leading our allies in the
battle. Villeneuve, wishing to forget his faults in a single day, tirelessly fought to the end and
was taken prisoner Gibraltar. Many commanders were captured by the English, and some died. Their
ships the same fate as ours: some retreated to Gravina, others were captured, and many were
lost on the coasts. The Achilles flew in combat, as I indicated in my relationship.

But despite these disasters, our ally, the proud French, not as expensive
as paid Spain consequences of that war.

If I lost the flower of their navy, ground reached in those same days noisy triumphs. Napoleon
had been transported in a short time the great army from the shores of the Channel to Central
Europe, and put in execution the colossal plan of campaign against Austria. On 20 October, a day
before Trafalgar, Napoleon witnessed in the field of Ulm the parade of the Austrian troops, whose generals
handed him his sword, and two months later, on December 2 of that year, winning in fields
of Austerlitz the most brilliant action of his reign.

These successes in France eased the loss of Trafalgar, Napoleon himself
ordered the newspapers not to speak of the matter, and when he realized
his relentless victory enemies the British, merely shrugged his shoulders
saying, "I can not be everywhere.

"

-XVII-

I tried to delay the time to introduce myself to my master, but in
the end, hunger, nakedness where I was and the lack of asylum, forced
me to go.

My heart, as I approached the house Dona Flora, pounding so hard that every step I stopped
to catch his breath. The great pity that announcing was going to cause the death of young Malespina,
weighed on my soul with sorrow so awful that if I had been responsible for this disaster, I
have felt more anxious. Finally arrived, and entered the house. My presence in the yard produced
a great sensation, I felt strong steps in the upper galleries, and had not yet had time saying
a word, when I embrace. I quickly recognize faces Doña Flora, more pintorreado day that an
altarpiece, and disfigured with ferocious joy that my presence had on the spirit of the excellent
old. The sweet names of bud, Remon, angel, and others who lavished me with all liberality,
not made me smile. I went and all were in motion. I heard my master say, 'There he is! Thank
God. " I went into the room, and Dona Francisca came forward to me asking me with mortal anxiety:

"And
D. Rafael? What has become of D. Rafael? "
 His amusements were hunting and reviewing the troops; but for him,
and if his good-natured father had not had his aid, the army would have been playing at cards
all day, and so it was well that the prudent prince was left to govern.

Duke Victor was fifty years of age, and his princess, the Princess Olivia, was scarce three-and-twenty.
They had been married seven years, and in the first years of their union the Princess had borne
him a son and a daughter. The stern morals and manners, the dark and ungainly appearance, of
the husband, were little likely to please the brilliant and fascinating young woman, who had
been educated in the south (she was connected with the ducal house of S---), who had passed
two years at Paris under the guardianship of Mesdames the daughters of His Most Christian Majesty,
and who was the life and soul of the Court of X---, the gayest of the gay, the idol of her
august father-in-law, and, indeed, of the whole Court. I'm not one to leave the danger: on the contrary, we seek from 21,
and I find the occasion of my presence in the squad is helpful. If you come before me, as
I hope, tell the good sailor Paca is a slave to his homeland, and that I have done very well
to come here, and I'm very glad I came, and not I am sorry, no sir, I do not regret ... On the
contrary ... Tell her to be happy when I see it, and that for sure my teammates would have
missed had it not been ... How was missing? Do not you think you did well in coming?

- As is clear: what does that question not like - I said trying to calm his agitation, which
was so great that he could see the inconvenience of talking to a miserable question page so
serious.

- I see you're a reasonable person - said to feel comforted with my approval -; I see that you
look high and patriotic ... But Paca does not see things rather than the side of selfishness,
and as is a genius so rare, and as he has made up his mind that brackets and the guns are useless,
I can not understand ... Anyway ... I know will be furious when he returns, then ... as we did not
win, he will say this and that ... me again crazy ... but ish ... If I did not do. How about you?
Is not it true that I should not make case?

- I think - I said -.

Your Honor has done well to come: it proves that he is a brave sailor.

- Then go to these reasons Paca, and see what you answered - said he increasingly agitated -.
In short, tell him I am well and healthy, and that my presence here has been very necessary.
The truth is that in the rescue of Santa Ana have taken a great part. If I had not targeted those
guns as well, who knows, who knows ... What do you think? You can still do something more,
it can still be that if the wind is favorable to us, we rescued a couple of ships tomorrow ... Yes,
sir ... Here I am pondering a plan ... We will see, see ... With
that farewell, Gabrielillo.

Be careful what you say to Paca.

- No, I will not forget. Already know that if not for your honor not dam the Santa Ana, and
also know I might perhaps bring us Cádiz two dozen ships.

- Two dozen, no, man - he said -, that's plenty. Two ships, or maybe three. Anyway, I think I've
done well to come to the square. She will be furious and I go crazy when return, but ... I
think, I repeat, I've done very well get on board. "

Having said that away from me. A moment later I saw him sitting in a corner of the camera. Was
praying, and moved the beads with great dissimulation, because I
did not see it engaged in such pious exercise.

I I assumed by his last words my master had lost the brain, and saw
him praying I took up the weakness of his spirit, which had been in
vain efforts to overcome the old tired and unable to sustain the fight,
went to God for mercy.

Dona Francisca was right.

My love, for many years, serving more than to pray.

As agreed we shuttle. D. Rafael and Martial, as the other officers wounded, were lowered into
the arms of one of the boats, with hard work, by strong ratings.

The very strong waves hindered the operation, but he finally did,
and the two vessels went to Ray.

The voyage of a vessel to another was terrible, but in the end, although there moments when
it seemed to me that the boat was going to disappear forever, we the side of Ray, and with great
difficulty climbed the ladder.

-XV-

"We left Guatemala to enter Guatepeor - Marcial said that they put on Cover -. But where the
captain gives the orders sent sailor. In that sentenced him to put
Rayo bad name.

He said to enter into Cadiz before midnight, and I say that does not fit. We'll see to see.

- What do you say, Marcial, who did not get there - I asked with great eagerness.

- You, Mr. Gabrielito, does not understand this.

- Is that when my
lord D. Alonso and Santa Ana officials believe the Lightning enter
tonight, there is bound to come.

They say it, it will be well known.

- And you know, sardiniya, those stern masters of lamps (wrong) more
easily we seafarers waist.

If not, here is the head of the entire squad, Mr. Horn, load the devil with him. You see, as
has not had so much mind to command the action. Do you think that if Mr. Horn would have done
what I said had lost the battle?

- And you think you will not get to Cadiz?

- I say that this ship is heavier than the same lead, and also treacherous. He has a bad path,
misgoverns and seems to be lame, one-armed one-eyed like me, because if you cast the rod for here,
he goes there. "

In effect, the Lightning, according to general opinion, was a lousy boat seaworthy. But despite
this and his advanced age, bordering on the fifty-six years as was in good condition, did not
seem to run any danger, because if the storm was becoming more, also the port was near. Anyway,
was it not logical to assume greater risk was in Santa Ana, treeless,
rudderless, and forced to march in the wake of a frigate?

Marcial was placed in the cockpit, and Malespina in the chamber. When we left there with other
officers wounded, I heard a voice I recognized, but the point I could not realize of the person
to whom it belonged. I approached the group where this talk came rumbling, dominating the other
voices, and was startled, while recognizing D. José María Malespina
in person.

I ran to him to say he was his son, and the good father of lies suspended I was telling to go
next to the wounded boy. Great was his joy to meet alive, he had left Cadiz because devouring
impatience and wanted to know his whereabouts at all costs.

"What you have is nothing - said hugging her son -: a simple scratch. You're not used to feel
wounded, you are a lady, Rafael. Oh, if when the war would have been Roussillon age to go there
with me, would have been good. Yes those were injured. You know I got a bullet through the
forearm, up to the shoulder, turned around the back, and came out at the waist. Oh, what hurt so
unique!, But after three days he was healthy, commanding the artillery in the attack Bellegarde.
"

She then explained the reason for their presence on the Lightning, as follows:

"The 21 at night we found in Cádiz the success of combat. I said, gentlemen, did not want to
ignore me when I spoke of the reforms of the artillery, and here
are the results.

Well well: as I knew and I knew that I had come in with a few withdrawal Gravina ships, went
to see if among them was the San Juan, where were you, but I was told there was been captured.
I can not paint to you my anxiety: I had no doubt about your death, I learned mostly from the
large number of casualties that occurred on your ship.

But I am a man I carry things to the end, and knowing that it had arranged the departure of some
vessels in order to collect dismantled and rescue the prisoners, I decided to leave soon doubt,
embarking on one of them.

I stated my intention to Solano, and then Major General of the squadron, my old friend Seaton,
and do not let me come without scruple. Aboard Lightning where I embarked this morning, I asked for
you, for the San Juan, but I said nothing comforting, but on the
contrary, that Churruca had died, and his ship after fight with glory
had fallen into the hands of the enemy.

Imagine what my anxiety! How far was today When we rescued the Santa Ana, that you you were
in it! To know for sure, would redoubled my efforts in the provisions that permit di with these
gentlemen, and the ship Alava would have been free in two minutes. "

The officers around him sarcastically mirábanle hearing last boastful concept D. José María. By
their laughter and whispering understood that throughout the day
had fun with the lies of that good man, who does not bridle his tongue
fickle, even in the most critical and painful circumstances.

The surgeon stated that it was let stand to hurt, and no conversation held in his presence some,
especially if it related to past disasters. D. Jose Maria, who just heard, said that, on the contrary,
it was appropriate to revive the spirit of the patient with the conversation.

"In the war of Roussillon, the seriously wounded (and I was several times) we sent to soldiers
to dance and touched the guitar in the infirmary, and I am sure that this treatment soon cured
us all of the pads and kits.

- For in the wars of the French Republic - said an official who wanted
to confuse Andalusian D. José María - established in the ambulance
of the wounded was a ballet complete and an opera company, and this
saved the doctors and apothecaries, as in a couple of arias and two
dozen were left stranded in sixth all new.

- Stop right there! -
Said Malespina -.

That's grid, gentleman. How can it be that music and dance to heal the wounds?

- You said it .-- Yes, but that has not happened more than once, or easily happen again. Is it
likely to again be a war like the Roussillon, the bloodiest, the
more skillful, the most strategic that has seen the world from Epaminondas?

They never, as there all was remarkable, and I can vouch for that, that I witnessed from the Introit
to the Mass est Ite. A war that I owe my knowledge of the artillery, have you not heard about
me? I'm sure you know me by name. Well, you know I have here in head a great project, and such
that if one day become reality, they will not disasters like this
occur 21.

Yes, gentlemen - she added, looking earnestly and sufficiency after
three or four officers who heard him -: we need to do something for
the motherland is urgent to invent Somewhat surprisingly, that in
no time we return all the lost and to ensure our marine the victory
for ever and ever Amen.

- So, Mr. D. José María - said an officer
-; you tell us what your invention .-- For I am concerned now as to
build cannons 300.

- Man, to 300! - Shouted the officers to fuss
with laughter and derision -.

Higher we have on board are 36.

- These are toys for kids. Just imagine the havoc that would make these pieces of 300 shooting
on the enemy's fleet - said Malespina -. But what the hell is this? - Added holding Non-roll
on the floor, as the swaying of the Ray were such that he could hardly
take a right.

- The storm rages and I think tonight we at Cadiz,
"said a retired officer.

Were only two, and the liar continued his rant in these terms:

"The
first thing to do was build boats from 95 to 100 yards long.

- Snails!

Do you know that the dinghy would be regular? - Said an officer -.

One hundred yards! The Trinity, which has holy glory, was seventy, and all seemed too long.
You know tacked you wrong, and that all operations were done on it
very hard.

- I see you are scared by little, little gentleman - continued
Malespina -.

What is 100 yards? Even much larger ships could be built. And I must warn you that I built iron.

-
Iron! - Cried the two listeners could not help laughing.

- Iron, yes. Perchance you do not know the science of hydrostatics? Under her, I would build an
iron ship of 7,000 tons.

- Trinidad And had no more than 4,000! - Said an officer - which seemed excessive. But do not
you understand that to move that mass would require a colossal rig, which would have human forces
able to handle it?

- Bicocca! ... Oh, sir sailor, and who tells you that I would be so awkward to move the ship
by wind? You do not know me. If you know that I have here an idea ... But I will not explain it
to you, because I do not understand. "

At this point in his talk, D. José María gave such a jolt that was on all fours. But neither of
these closed its beak. So he went another officer, and was only one, which had to continue holding
the conversation.

"What swings! - Continued the old -.

It seems as if we're going to crash into the coast ... Well, as I
said, I would move that great mass of my invention by means of ...
You'll never guess what you ... By water vapor.

To build a machine that is singular, where steam, compressed and expanded alternately in two
cylinders, put wheels in motion ... as ...».

The officer did not want to hear more, and although I had put into the vessel nor was service,
be those listed, was to help their peers rather busy with the growing storm. Malespina was left
alone with me, and then thought I would not judge me quiet person
order to sustain the conversation.

But my misfortune would have wanted him more than me what I was worth, and started me on the
following terms:

"Do you misunderstand what I mean? Seven thousand tons, steam, two wheels ... then.

- Yes, sir, I fully understand - I replied to see if it was silent, as neither had mood hear,
nor the violent balances of the ship, announcing a great danger, possessed the spirit to speak
about the enlargement of the marina.

- I see you know me and takes care of my inventions - he continued -.

You understand I imagine that the ship would be invincible, as they defend by attacking. He
would only defeated with four or five shots thirty English ships.

- But their guns would not hurt him too? - Expressing shyness, arguing courtesy rather than
because the subject interested me.

- Oh! The observation of you, gentleman, is atinadísima, and try to understand and appreciate
the great inventions. To avoid the effect of enemy artillery, I forraría my boat with thick
steel plates, that is, you put a shell, such as those used by past warriors. By this means, it could
attack without the enemy projectiles do in their more side effects than would a barrage of
pellets of bread, thrown by hand a child. It's a wonderful idea that I've had. Just imagine
that our nation had two or three ships to those. Where would go the England squad with all Nelson
and Collingwood?

- But in case of those ships could do here - I said eagerly, knowing the strength of my argument
- the British would make them too, and then the proportions of the struggle would be the same. "

D.
Jose Maria was as bewildered with this, and was puzzled for a moment, without know what to say,
but his inexhaustible vein soon suggest new ideas, and answered bad mood:

"Who has told you, daring lad, I would be able to divulge my secret? The ships would be manufactured with
the utmost secrecy and without saying Palotada anyone. Suppose going on a new war. We provoked
the British, they say, 'Yes, sir, now we are; will beat us.

" Ships out to sea ordinary, began the fight, and maybe catatonic displayed on the waters of fighting
two or three of these iron monsters, spewing smoke and marching here
and there, ignoring the wind, they get where they want to make chips
with the push of his sharp nose against ships, and a couple of guns
... just imagine you, everything is just a quarter-hour.

"

He declined further comment, because the idea of ​​a great danger that ran me from occupying the
mind with thoughts contrary to their own of such critical situation. I did not remember most formidable
vessel of imagination, until thirty years later I learned the application of steam navigation,
and even more, when after half a century saw our glorious frigate Numancia the finished performance
of projects quirky Trafalgar liar.

Half a century later I remembered
D. José María Malespina, and said: "It seems incredible that the vagaries
designed by a madman or a liar become wonderful realities in the course
of time. "

Since I noticed this coincidence, not condemn absolutely
no utopia, and all liars I think men of genius.

I left D. José María
to see what was happening, and as I set foot outside the chamber,
I learned of the compromised position he was in the Lightning. The
storm, not only prevented entry into Cadiz, but he was moved to the
coast, where encallaría insurance crashing against the rocks. However
bad luck out of Santa Ana, who had abandoned could not be worse than
ours. I eagerly watched the faces of officers and men, to see if there
was any hope to indicate, but, to my misfortune, I saw signs in all
of great discouragement. The second packet is for your grandfather,
enclosing the letter from you in which you state yourself to be his heir, and begging for a
confirmation of the fact. The last parcel, for his Highness the Hereditary Duke,' added I,
looking most sternly, 'contains the Gustavus Adolphus emerald, which he gave to his princess,
and which you pledged to me as a family jewel of your own. 

"Her spirit rebelled against death, hiding the sharp pain of a maimed body, whose rearward palpitations
were extinguished in seconds. Try to lower the camera, but was unable to wrest the castle.
At last, yielding to our prayer, he realized it was necessary to leave the command. Called Moyna,
his second, and said he was dead; called the commander of the first battery, and this, though
severely wounded, went to the castle and took over the command.

"Since then the crew bailed: giant became dwarf disappeared value, and realized that it was essential
to surrender. The consternation that I was owned since I got in my arms the hero of San Juan,
I do not see the terrible prevented effect caused in the minds of all of this misfortune. As if
a sudden paralysis moral and physical crew had invaded and they were all frozen and mute, without
the pain caused by the loss of dear man gave rise to the embarrassment of surrender.

"Half the people were dead or wounded, most of the guns removed, the
masts, except the foremast had fallen, and the rudder was not working.

In so pitiful state, still wanted to make an effort to follow the Prince of Asturias, who had
raised the sign of withdrawal, but the Nepomuceno, mortally wounded, could not govern in any direction.
And despite the ruin and destruction of the ship, despite the dismay of the crew despite to
attend our damage such unfavorable circumstances, none of the six English ships dared to try an approach.
Feared for our ship, even after they quit.

"Churruca, in a paroxysm of his agony, he ordered the flag stick and
not to give the ship while he lived.

The period could not but be unfortunately very short, because Churruca was dying in a hurry,
and those who assisted him that asombrábamos we still encourage a body in such a state, and
was thus kept him strength of spirit, attached to irresistible commitment to life, because for him
at that time life was a duty. Did not lose consciousness until the final moments, did not complain of
pain or regret for his end was near; Rather, every effort was above all that the officers did not
know the severity your state, and any failure in its duty. He thanked the crew for their heroic
behavior, addressed some words to his brother Ruiz de Apodaca, and after dedicate a memorial to
his young wife, and raise the thoughts to God, whose name we hear softly spoken several times
by his dry lips, ended with the peace of just and the strength of heroes, without the satisfaction
of victory, but also without resentment of the defeated; involving the duty to dignity, and making
the discipline a religion as a military strong, serene as a man, without uttering a complaint,
or accuse anyone with such dignity in death as in life. We beheld his body still warm, and
we seemed to lie, we thought we had to wake up to send back, and we had to cry less fortitude
than he to die, for the expiry took all the courage, the whole enthusiasm that had inspired us.

"Rindiose
the San Juan, and when the officers boarded the six ships that had shattered, each intended for himself
the honor of receiving the sword of the dead brigadier. Everyone said, "has surrendered to my
ship," and played for a while claiming the honor of victory for either of the vessels belonged.
Commander wanted San Juan accidental decide the issue, saying which
of the English ships had surrendered, and he answered: "To all, which
one would never have given up the San Juan.

In the face of the corpse of the late Churruca, the English, who knew him by the fame of its
value and understanding, showed great distress, and one of them said this or something similar:

"Illustrious
Men like this should not be exposed to the hazards of combat, and other preserved for the advancement
of the science of navigation. "

After the funeral was arranged to make forming the British army and navy of the Spanish side,
and all their actions were Gentlemen, magnanimous and generous.

"The number of wounded on board the San Juan was so considerable that transported us to other own ships,
or prisoners. I happened to pass it, which has been among the most abused; but they have it can
be towed to Gibraltar before any other, because they can not be to
Trinidad, the largest and most coveted of our ships.

"

* * * * *

       Malespina ended here, which was heard with deep attention during the
story of what had witnessed.



As soon as he withdrew, it became my business to step forward; but cautiously and gently, so
as not to alarm the lady, and yet firmly, so as to convince her of the hopelessness of her
design of uniting herself with her shabby lover, the sub-lieutenant. The Princess Olivia was
good enough to perform this necessary part of the plan in my favour, and solemnly to warn the
Countess Ida, that, though Monsieur de Magny had retired from paying his addresses, his Highness
her guardian would still marry her as he thought fit, and that she must for ever forget her
out-at-elbowed adorer. In fact, I can't conceive how such a shabby rogue as that could ever
have had the audacity to propose for her: his birth was certainly good; but what other qualifications
had he? 

Later in the day, again tried to tow the vessel Pince Holy Trinity, but with so much success as
the previous night. The situation worsened, despite the continued time with equal force, which
had been repaired many faults, and believed that once quiet time, could save the town. The
English were very hard at it, because wanted to bring a trophy to Gibraltar by the largest ship
built so far. For this reason worked so hard at the pumps night and day, allowing us to rest
a while.

Throughout the day 22 the sea was churning furiously, taking and bringing the ship's hull if it were
flimsy fishing boat, and that mountain of wood proved the strong interlocking their solid frames,
when it did not break into pieces to get the tremendous hit wave. There were times, flattening
the sea, it seemed that the ship would sink forever, but swell the wave as the impulse of deep
turmoil, rose one her proud bow, adorned with the lion of Castile, and then breathed in the hope
to save.

Everywhere we discovered ships scattered, mostly English, not without faults and ensuring all reach
the coast for refuge. We also Spanish and French some dismasted, others towed by a boat enemy.
Marcial recognized in one of these the San Ildefonso. We saw floating in the water many of
the remains and debris, such as masts, mastheads, broken boats, hatches, pieces of balconies,
slides, and finally, we saw two marine unhappy, bad on board a big stick, were carried by the
waves, and would perished if the British did not immediately ran to help them. Brought on board the
Trinidad, came to life, which recovered after feeling in the arms of death, equivalent born
again.

The day passed between agony and hope, and we felt it was essential to transfer to an English
ship to save us, we thought it possible to preserve ours. However, the idea of ​​being taken to
Gibraltar as prisoners was terrible, but to me, for men punctilious and stubborn as my master,
whose sufferings must have been unprecedented moral that day. But these painful choices ceased in
the afternoon, and the time it was unanimous the idea that if trasbordábamos not perish all
in the ship, which was fifteen feet water in the hold. Iriartea and Cisneros received this
news with calm and serenity demonstrating that there were great difference between dying in
one's home or being prisoners the strange. Continuous act began the transfer to the dim light
of dusk, which is not was easy, having precision of about three hundred wounded ship. The crew
sound consisted of about five hundred men were reduced figure to the 1115 individuals who composed
before the fight.

Began abruptly with the boat transfer from Trinidad, and the Pince of three other vessels of
the England squad. God's preference for the wounded, but though Seeking to avoid discomfort, it
was impossible to rise from her place without mortifying, and some shouted loudly demanded
to be left quiet, preferring death to a travel raged their pain. The rush did not give rise
to compassion, and were driven the boats so mercilessly thrown into
the sea as were the cold bodies of their comrades.

Iriartea commander and squad leader, Cisneros embarked on the boats of the officers English,
and my master having been invited to enter in them, he resolutely refused, saying he wanted to be
the last to leave the Trinity. This did not stop opposite it faded in me waves of patriotism,
which initially gave me some courage, and thought no more than save
my life, and it was not as out for this noble purpose the stay aboard
a sinking ship at times.

My fears were in vain, it still was not out half of the crew when a rumble sounded the alarm and dread
in our ship.

"What we're going to sink! ... The boats, the boats! "Cried some, while dominated all for self-preservation,
ran to the railing, looking with greedy eyes the returning boats. All work was abandoned, no
more thought of the wounded, and many them, and taken on deck, crawled through it with delirious
lost, looking for a gateway through which plunge into the sea. By hatches out a mournful cry,
still seems to resonate in my brain, freezing the blood in my veins
and ruffling my hair.

Were the wounded left in the first battery, which, feeling inundated by water already invaded
the place, cried for help I do not know if God or men.

In the latter asked for it in vain, for no thought but to salvation itself. They threw rushed to
the boats, and this confusion in the darkness of the night, was hampering
transfer.

One man, indifferent to such great danger, remained in the palace
without addressing to what was happening around him, and walked concerned
and thoughtful, as if those tables put your foot where they were not
requested by the vast chasm.

It was my master.

I ran to him, terrified, and said:

"Lord, that we are drowning!"

D. Alonso ignored me, and I still believe, if memory is unfaithful, that without leaving your
uttered words so alien attitude to the situation like this:

"Oh! How are you going to laugh Paca when I come home after this great defeat.

- Sir, the ship is sinking! "I cried again, not painting the danger, but asking gestures and voices.

My
master looked at the sea, the boats, the men who, desperate and blind, rushed to them, and
I looked with anxious eyes Martial, and called him with the full force of my lungs. So it seems
to me that I lost the feeling of what was happening, stunned me,
my eyes clouded I do not know what happened.

To tell how I escaped, I can not cover but in very vague memories, images like a dream, that
certainly took away terror knowledge. I looks like a sailor approached D. Alonso when I spoke,
and seized him with his vigorous arms. I felt myself transported, and when my clouded mind cleared
a little, I I saw a boat lying on the knees of my master, who had my head between her hands with
paternal affection. Marcial grasped the tiller, the boat was crowded.

I looked up and saw four or five yards away to my right, the black
side the ship, next to sink, for the gates that had not yet reached
the water, leaving a faint light, the lamp lit at dusk, and still
watched, guardian tireless the remains of the abandoned ship.

It also hurt my ears a few regrets leaving through the embrasures, were the poor wounded had
been saved and were suspended over the abyss, while those allowed to look sad light, communicating
with his eyes the anguish of their hearts.

My imagination is moved back into the ship: one inch of water no more missing to break the fragile
balance that he still held. How would witness these unfortunate growth of the flood! What they
say in that terrible moment!

And if you saw the fled on boats, if they felt the snap of the oars, with much bitterness groan their
troubled souls! It is also true that this atrocious martyrdom of all the purified guilt, and
the mercy of God filled the whole area of ​​the ship at the time of dive forever.

The boat moved away, I kept seeing that big blob, but I suspect it
was my fantasy not my eyes, watching the Trinity in the dark of night,
and even thought to distinguish in the black sky a big arm coming
down to the surface of the water.

Was undoubtedly the image of my thoughts played by the senses.

-XIII-

The boat went ... Where? Marcial Not even knew where we were going. Darkness was so strong
that we lost sight of other boats, and the lights of the ship vanished Pince behind the mist, as
if a breath of been extinguished.

The waves were so thick, and the gale so hard that the boat was moving very little weak, and
thanks to the skilful guidance did not capsize more than once. All callábamos, and the more fixed
a sad look at the site where supposed to be our companions left struggling at the moment with
the terrible death agony.

Not end without making that journey, according to my custom, some reflections, is well I can
venture to call philosophical. Someone will laugh a philosopher of fourteen years, but I do not peatRich
to teasing, and I have the audacity to write my thoughts here then. Children also tend to think
great things, and at that time, before that show what the brain, so it were not an idiot, could
remain calm?

Well, in our boats were Spanish and English, though the greater the number of first, and was curious
to see how fraternizing, invoking each other in the common danger, without remembering the
previous day killed in horrific fight, more like beasts than men.

I looked at the British rowing as vigorously as ours, I watched in their faces the same signs
of fear or hope, and above all, the expression saint's own sense of humanity and charity, which
was the motive of each other. With these thoughts, said to me: "Why is war, my God? Why are these
men should not be friends at all times of life as they are in danger? This I see, is not proof
that all men are brothers? ".

But suddenly came to cut these considerations, the idea of ​​nationality, that system of islands
that I had wrought, and then said, "But, this, that the islands have to want off each other a
piece of land, it will spoil everything, and indeed in all must have very bad men, who are the
ones who assembled the wars for private profit, either because they are ambitious and want to send,
either because they are greedy and crave to be rich.

These bad guys are those who deceive others, all these wretches who
will fight, and for that deception is complete, driving them to hate
other nations sow discord promote envy, and here you have the result.

I'm sure - I added - that this can not last: two to one to bet that soon the men of such agencies
islands have to convince you that make a great blunder arming terrible wars, and will a day
that will embrace, not to be agreeing to all but one family. "

So I thought. After that I lived seventy years, and have not seen
that day come.

The boat moved laboriously by the stormy Tues I think that Martial, if my master had allowed,
would have accomplished the feat following: push out the British and put forward to Cadiz or
the coast, even with the almost unavoidable chance of drowning in the crossing. Some of it seems
to me that my master said, speaking softly in his ear, and D. Alonso had to give a lesson in chivalry,
for I heard him say:

"We are prisoners, Marcial, we are prisoners."

The worst thing is that we could see no ships.

The Pince had moved away from where he was, no light indicates the
presence of a vessel enemy.

Finally, we saw one, and after a while the confused mass of a ship that ran the storm to windward,
and appeared in the opposite direction to ours. Some believed him French, others English, and
Marcial said he was Spanish. Forced the rowers, and not without we get to talk.

"Ship ahoy!" Shouted ours.

At once replied in Spanish:

"It is the San Agustín - Marcial said.

- The St. Augustine has plummeted - said D. Alonso -. I think it is the Santa Ana, which is also captured.
"

Indeed, to draw us all recognized the Santa Ana, commanded in combat by Lieutenant General Alava.
At once the British who were guarding disposed to lend assistance, and soon find us all safely on
deck.

The Santa Ana, a ship of 112 guns, had also suffered great damage, although not as severe such
as the Holy Trinity, and while it was dismasted in all its clubs
and rudderless, the helmet was kept evil.

The Santa Ana lived eleven years after Trafalgar, and even would have lived longer if by lack
of buoyancy would not have gone down in the bay of Havana in 1816. Its action in the days that
mean it was glorious. Mandábalo, as I said, Lieutenant General Álava, head of the vanguard,
which exchanged the order of battle, came to be in the rear. You know that the column commanded
by Collingwood addressed combat the rear, while Nelson went against the center. The Santa
Ana, covered only Fougueux by the French, had to fight with the Royal Sovereign and four British;
despite the inequality of forces, both suffered one like the others, being Collingwood the first
ship that was out of action, so it had to move Eurygalus the frigate. As reported there, the
fight had been awful, and the two powerful ships, which touched Penoles, were shattering for six hours
until General Álava than hurt, hurt Gardoqui commander, killed five
officers and ninety and seven sailors, with more than a hundred wounded,
had to give the Santa Ana Imprisoned by the British, it was almost
impossible to handle because of the bad and the furious gale that
unfolded on the night of 21, so when we went in he was in a position
rather critical, if not desperate, and floated on the waves, unable
to take direction whatsoever.

Since then I brought comfort to see that the faces of all those people revealed the fear of
impending death. They were sad and quiet is worth bearing with gravity
maturity and the embarrassment of being prisoners.

One detail I noticed also called my attention, was that British officers were guarding the ship,
or by far so accommodating and kind as well played by Trinidad aboard. On the contrary, of Santa Ana were
the gentlemen very sullen and unfriendly, and mortified in excess of ours, exaggerating their
own authority and making repairs to all with great impertinence. This seemed to upset a lot
to the crew captive, especially seamanship, and I even seem to notice alarming whispers that
have not been very reassuring for the British if they had heard.

Moreover, I do not refer incidents of navigation that night, of sorts Navigation wandering aimlessly,
at the mercy of the waves, without sail or rudder.

I would not, therefore, annoy my readers repeating facts already witnessed on board the Trinidad,
and step to tell others entirely new that will surprise you as much as it surprised me.

I had lost my love to walk around the waist and bow castle, and so, since I found aboard the
Santa Ana, I turned to my master in the chamber, where I could get some rest and feed, because of
both was much needed. There was, however, many wounded who was necessary to heal, and this occupation,
very pleasant for me, I allowed all the rest that my overwhelmed body demanded. Found myself engaged
in putting D. Alonso a bandage on his arm, when I felt a hand on my shoulder, I turned and faced
with a tall, wrapped in luengo blue cloak, and soon, as usual, did not recognize him, but watching
him with attention space of a few seconds, threw an exclamation of
surprise: it was the young D. Rafael Malespina, boyfriend of my mistress.

Clasped

D. Alonso with love, and he sat next to us. He was wounded in the hand, and so pale with fatigue
and loss of blood, completely disfiguring emaciation face. His presence in my mind was feeling
very weird, and I must confess all, although some of them do little for me. At some point experienced
a joy watching someone who has had emerged unscathed from horrific fight, a moment later the
old hatred that this subject inspired me woke up in my chest as pain that returns to haunt sleepy
after a period of relief. With shame I confess: I felt some regret to see him safe and sound;
discharge but also tell me that that pain was a sensation as a momentary
and fleeting lightning, black lightning true that obscured my soul,
or rather, slight eclipse light of my consciousness, which soon shine
with splendid clarity.

The perverse part of my guy took me over a moment, in a moment I also learned to silence it cornering
at the bottom of my heart. Can they all say the same? After this fight moral Malespina saw with
joy because he was alive, and shame because I was hurt, and yet I
remember with pride that efforts to show these two feelings.

Amita Poor mine! How great would be his anguish at the time!

My heart always concluded and filled with goodness, I'd run to Vejer to say, "Miss Dona Rosa, your
D. Rafael is good and healthy. "

The poor Malespina had been transported to Santa Ana from Nepomuceno, a ship seized also, where
such was the number of wounded, which was necessary, he said, handing them out to not all
perish of neglect. As father and son changed the first greetings, devoting a few words to
the absent families, the conversation fell on the battle: Master
told me what happened in the Holy Trinity, and then added:

"But nobody
tells me where is a fixed point Gravina. Have you taken prisoner,
or retired to Cadiz?

- General - Malespina said - he said a horrific
fire at Defiance and Revenge. Have aided and abetted the Neptune,
French, and the San Ildefonso and San Justo, our, but the forces the
enemy is doubled with the help of Dreadnoutgh, the Thunderer and Poliphemus,
after which it was impossible any resistance. Finding himself the
Prince of Asturias with all cut the rigging, no sticks, riddled with
bullets, and having been wounded General Gravina and Maj. Gen. Seaton,
resolved to abandon the struggle, because all resistance was insane
and the battle was lost.
Time was necessary in order to break the matter to Prince Victor. The Princess must find him
at some moment of good-humour. He had days of infatuation still, when he could refuse his wife
nothing; and our plan was to wait for one of these, or for any other chance which might occur.

But it was destined that the Princess should never see her husband at her feet, as often as
he had been. Fate was preparing a terrible ending to her follies, and my own hope. In spite
of his solemn promises to me, Magny never restored the emerald to the Princess Olivia.

He had heard, in casual intercourse with me, that my uncle and I had been beholden to Mr. Moses
Lowe, the banker of Heidelberg, who had given us a good price for our valuables; and the infatuated
young man took a pretext to go thither, and offered the jewel for pawn. Moses Lowe recognised
the emerald at once, gave Magny the sum the latter demanded, which the Chevalier lost presently
at play: never, you may be sure, acquainting us with the means by which he had made himself
master of so much capital. Seemed very worshipful,
and people were fashionable in Cadiz, all very discreet and elegant. Any of them was a poet,
or rather, everyone did verses, but bad, and I think they I heard of a certain Academy that
met to shoot at with his verses, entertainment did not hurt anyone.

As I looked around, I noticed the strange figure of the men, in their effeminate gestures and,
above all, in their costumes, which seemed extravagantísimos. There were not many people dressed
that way in Cadiz, and thinking after the dispute had among those trappings and the ordinary people
I had ever seen, I realized that was that they wore to the Spanish, and friends of Mrs. Flora
under fashion Madrid and Paris. What first caught my eye was the strangeness of their staffs,
which were a few clubs and gruesísimos twisted knots. They are not seeing the beard, because
the hid tie, sort of shawl, that making several turns around the neck and extending to the lips,
was a kind of basket, tray, or rather basin on resting face. The hair was a mess contrived,
and rather than comb it appeared that it had been seasoned with a broom, the tips of the hat touched
their shoulders, the jackets, very high-waisted, almost swept the ground with their tails,
ending in boots tip, the pockets of his waistcoat hung a multitude of charms and seals her
panties listings is attacking the knee with a huge loop, and that such figures were complete
doodles, All had a lens that during the conversation repeatedly approached the right eye, closing
the claim, although both of have very good eyesight.

The conversation dealt with those characters out of the square, alternating
with this case the relationship does not know what dance or party
that weighed a lot, being one of them subject of high praise for how
well he did with his light braids dancing legs gavotte.

Having talked a lot, went with Mrs. Flora in the Carmelite church, and there taking each his
rosary, prayed that the stripping a good amount of time, and some
of them gave me a bump on the head nicely on top, because instead
of praying so devoutly like them, pay much attention to two flies
buzzed around the loop height Dona Flora hairstyle.

We left after hearing a sermon annoying that they held a masterpiece, we walk again, continued
to talk more vividly, because we are united some ladies dressed in the same style, and among
all hell broke so noisy racket of gallantry, phrases and subtleties, mixed with some bland verse,
I can not remember.

And while my dear master martial and tried to set date and time to move permanently Aboard! And
I was exposed to stay on land, subject to the whims of that old I love gooey with its dull! Would you
believe that that night insisted that would stay forever at your
service?

Would you believe that said he loved me, and gave me some loving proof hugs and kisses, ordering me
not to tell anyone? Horrible contradictions of life!, I thought when considering how happy
would be if My mistress had treated me that way. I, embarrassed to the utmost, I said I wanted
go to the top, and when I might want to return at will, but if not let me fulfill my desire,
so much so abhor, and reached out to express a number very great abhorrence.

Then, as unexpectedly entered my master, I, judging when the time to achieve my object by starting
oratorio, who had careful preparation, I knelt before him, saying in the most pathetic tone that
if I was carrying, I would throw desperate to sea.

My master laughed at the occurrence, his cousin, by pampering his mouth, pretended to some hilarity
that disfigured his face amojamado, and finally consented. He gave me a thousand sweets to eat
on board asked me to flee from the places of danger, and said not
a word contrary my shipment, which took place the next morning early.

-IX-

October
was the month and day 18.

From this date I have no doubt, because the next day left the square. We got up early and went
to the pier where a boat awaited us brought on board.

You go figure what my astonishment, wonder what I say!, My enthusiasm,
my disposition, when I was near the Holy Trinity, the largest ship
in the world, this fortress of wood, seen from a distance that is
represented in my imagination as a factory prodigious, supernatural
only monster worthy of the majesty of the seas.

When our boat passed by a ship, I examined with some religious awe,
amazed to see such great helmets me seemed so small from the wall,
at other times seemed smaller than my imagination had wrought.

The restless excitement that possessed me exposed to fall water when he looked with rapture a
figurehead, an object more than any other fascinated my attention.

Finally we come to Trinidad. As we got closer, the forms of that colossus would increasing,
and when the boat got alongside, confused sea space where project, what horrible black and glass,
the shadow of the ship, when I saw how they sank the still grim hull, gently whipping the sides,
and when I looked and saw all three rows of cannons poking their mouths threatened by slides,
my enthusiasm was changed to fear, I went down pale and motionless stood clinging to the arm
of my master.

But as we went and found myself on deck, I enlarged the heart. The graceful and high rigging, animation
of the castle, the view of the sky and the bay, the admirable order
few objects occupied the deck, from the hammocks [4] posts in a row
on the bulwarks, to the hoists, pumps, hoses, hatches, the variety
of uniforms, all in order, I stayed in such a way that for a while
I was absorbed in contemplation of such a beautiful machine, without
thinking about anything else.

These can not take care of those magnificent ships, much less the Holy Trinidad, for the bad pictures
they have seen represented. Nor anything resembling Warriors ships today, covered with heavy
iron harness, long, monotonous blacks, and no accidents very visible in its vast, so I have
like Sometimes huge floating coffins.

Created by a positivist era, and science appropriate to nautical military these days, which means
the steam has canceled the maneuvers, trusting the success of combat power and thrust of the
ships, the ships of today are simple machines war, while those of that time were the same warrior,
full armor attack and defense, but relying primarily on their skill and courage.

Yo, I see as I see, I've always had the habit of linking to an extreme
exaggeration ideas with pictures, things with people, even of the
most inasociables categories.

Displaying calls later Gothic cathedrals of our Castile and Flanders, and noting imposing majesty
how complex and subtle highlights its factory between buildings modern taste, built by the utility,
such as banks, hospitals and barracks, no I have less to bring to mind the different kinds
of ships I've seen in my long life, and I compared the old with the Gothic cathedrals. Forms,
which extend upwards, the predominance of vertical lines on the horizontal; some inexplicable
idealism, some historical and religious at the same time, mixed with the hassle of lines and
the color scheme that combines at whim the sun, have determined the association extravagant
I explained that the trace of romanticism in the spirit leaving impressions childhood.

The Holy Trinity was a ship of four bridges. The largest in the world were of three. That Colossus
was built in Havana, with the richest woods of Cuba in 1769, was thirty and six years of honorable
service. Was 220 feet (61 meters) in length, ie aft forward, 58 feet wide (W), and 28 post (height from
keel to deck), dimensions extraordinary then had no vessel in the world. Its powerful frames
that were a real forest, sustained four floors. On its sides, which were very strong walls wood,
had opened loopholes to build 116, when reformed, fully pleasing in 1796, he opened 130, and
artillery back in 1805, was on their side when I saw him, 140 fire hydrants, through canyons
and carrion. The interior was wonderful for distribution of the various compartments, as were bridges
for artillery, plaice for the crew, storerooms for food stores, cameras for heads, kitchens,
nursing and other services. I was lost going through the galleries and other caches that Escorial seas.
The cameras were located at the stern of a small palace inside and outside a kind of fantasy
castle, the balconies, flags of the aft corners, such the headlights
of a Gothic castle, were as large cages open to the sea, and where
the eye could go three-quarters horizon.

Nothing greater than the rigging, masts those giant, launched into the sky, as a challenge
to the storm. It seemed that the wind had not have the force to push their huge loon. The view was dizzy
and lost the vast skein contemplating forming aloft in the rigging, you are, fathoms, coarse,
topping lifts and halyards that were used to hold and move the sails.

I was absorbed in the contemplation of so great, I felt a strong blow to the neck. I thought
the mast had fallen on to me. I looked dazed and threw a exclamation of horror at seeing a man
who threw me the ears as if to get up in the air. It was my uncle.

"What dost thou here, worm? - I said in the gentle tone that was common -. Want to learn the office?
Hey, John - he added to a ferocious-looking sailor - Lift me up in this turtle to the main yard
to walk around it. "

I evaded a commitment as I could walk around the yard, and explained
with the utmost courtesy that within the service of D. Cisniega Alonso
Gutierrez, had come on board with him.

Three or four sailors, friends of my nice guy, wanted to harm me, so I decided away from such
a distinguished company, and I left the camera in search of my master. Officers made his toilet,
on board no less difficult than on land, and when I saw the pages occupied in powdered heads
of the heroes who served, I wondered if that operation was the least the way in a ship where
every moment is precious and where everything always gets in the
way that is not immediate need for service.

But fashion as tyranny was then as now, and even at that time imposed a compelling way their vexatious
absurdities.

So the soldier had to use precious time to become the doublet. Poor men! I saw them lined up one
after the other, fixing each the queue in front of him, half-witted that completed the transaction
quickly.

Then helmeted fur hat, heavy mass, the object I could never explain and then go to their jobs
if they had to keep watch, or walk around the waist if they were Free service. The sailors did not
use that ridiculous hair appendix, and simple I think that suit has not changed much since then.

In
the chamber, my master spoke heatedly with the ship's commander, Don Francisco Javier de Uriarte,
and the squad leader, Don Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros. As little I heard, I had no doubt that
the French General had given orders for the morning departure.

This was delighted to Martial, who along with other old sailors on
the forecastle, discoursing grandly on the next play.

Such a society liked me more than my interest uncle, because the colleagues of the Middle-man jokes
were not permitted to me. This only difference was to understand the diverse nationalities
of the crew, and while some Purebred were sailors, taken there by hook or voluntary enrollment,
other cam were people, often lazy, unruly, of evil habits and bad knowing the trade.

With the first I had better friends than with the latter, and attended all the conferences Marcial.
If I were not afraid to tire the reader, we refer the explanation he gave of diplomatic and
political causes of war, to paraphrase the funniest way possible
what I had heard a few nights before Malespina mouth at my masters.

For he knew that groom my mistress had embarked on.

All conference ended at one point, the next battle. The fleet was
to leave the next day, what a pleasure!

Browse this gigantic ship, the largest in the world, witness a battle in the midst of the seas; see
how the battle, how to shoot guns, how preyed on enemy ships ... What a beautiful party!, And
then re-covered Cádiz glory ... All who would hear me say: "I was in the squad, I saw everything
tell ...», also my mistress, telling the grand scene, and exciting their attention, curiosity,
interest ... also say: "I found myself in the places of greatest danger, and trembled That ';
see how upset, how pale and frightened listening refer the horrors of combat, and then look down
upon all those who say 'reckon, Gabrielito, that something so awful
!...»

Oh, this was more than I needed my imagination to go wild ... Quite frankly on that day I had not
changed by Nelson.

19 dawned, it was for me very happy, and had not yet dawned when I was in the quarter-deck with
my master, who wanted to attend the maneuver.

After sluicing began operation. Large topsails hoisted, and the heavy windlass, touring with his
sharp chirp, tore the mighty anchor the bottom of the bay. The sailors were at the yards, drove
other hot coals, ready to Boatswain's voice and all voices of the ship, before silent filled
the air with frightful cries. A whistle, bell bow, the discordant concert a thousand human voices,
mingled with the creaking of blocks, the creaking of the ropes, the mop whipping the sails swell clubs
before impelled by the wind, all these varied sounds accompanied the first steps of the massive
ship.

Small waves caressing her sides, and the majestic mass began to slide across the bay without giving
the slightest nod, no swaying side with grave and solemn march, which only could be assessed
comparatively, observing the imaginary translation of merchant ships
anchored and landscape.

At the same time he looked around, and what a sight, my God, thirty-two ships, five frigates and
two brigs, between Spanish and French placed in front, behind and our side is covered with candles
and marched also impelled by the light winds. I have not seen more beautiful tomorrow. The sun
flooded the magnificent harbor light, a hint of dyed purple surface waters eastward, and the chain
of hills and distant mountains limiting the horizon to the Port were still lit by fire of past
dawn, the clear sky just had some red and gold clouds on the east; the blue sea was calm, and
on the sea and under that sky forty candles, with their White sails,
undertook the march, the most visible form squad that can occur to
human eyes.

They were not all ships with the same step. Some came forward, others were slow to move; spend
some with us, while he who stayed behind.

Slow his departure, and the height of your rig, canvas covered, some mysterious harmony that
my ears perceived child out of the glorious helmets, kind of anthem that undoubtedly resonated within
myself, the light of day, the fresh air, the beauty of the sea, outside the bay seemed to stir
with gentle joy to the approximation of the fleet were the most impressive box imaginable.

Cadiz, therefore, as a rotating panorama is foreshortened by presenting our view on the various
facets of its vast circuit. The sun, lighting the windows of his thousand viewpoints, splashed
the city with gold dust, and white mole stood out as clean and pure on water, which seemed to
have been created at the time, or taken from the sea and the fantastic City of San Gennaro. Saw
the development of the wall from the dock to the castle of Santa
Catherine Bonnet recognized bulwark, a bulwark of Orejón, Cove, and
I was filled with pride considering where it came from and where I
was.

At the same time reached my ears as the mysterious music of the bells of the city half awake,
playing to mass, with the chattering din of the bells of a great people. And expressing joy, as
a greeting of good trip, and I heard the rumor that if of human voices that give us the farewell,
and I seemed to announce to sound sad and upset a disgrace, and as we drove away, the music was
fading until it was extinguished widespread in the vast space.

The squad came out slowly, some boats spent many hours to be outside. Martial during departure,
was making comments on each ship, watching the march, nicknamed if they were heavy, encouraging
them with fatherly advice if they were lighter and set sail soon. "What Heavy is D. Federico! -
Said watching the Prince of Asturias, commanded by Gravina -. There goes Mr. Horn - exclaimed
looking at Bucentaur, general ship -.

Well haiga who you Ray began - ironically said looking at the ship of this name, which was the
heaviest of all Well ...-- squad for Dad Ignacio - added contact the Santa Ana, who rode Álava
-. Check all the topsail piece of dolphin - watching the ship said Dumanoir -; this gringo
has a hairdresser to curl the topsail, and loads of candles with tongs. "

The sky is clouded in the afternoon, and dusk was already a great
distance, we saw Cadiz gradually lost in the fog, until it mingled
with the ink of night his final contours.

The squad took southbound.

At night I left him, once I left my master very well ensconced in his cabin. Surrounded by two
colleagues and admirers, he explained the plan of Villeneuve as follows:

"Mr. Cornet has divided the squad into four bodies. The vanguard, which is commanded by Álava
has seven vessels, the center, which has seven and sends Mr. Horn in person, the rear also seven,
which is commanded by Dumanoir, and the reserve corps, composed of twelve ships, that sends Don
Federico

.
 I have no doubt
he perused them, for, on delivering them to the Hereditary Prince, Geldern said that, IN OBEDIENCE
TO HIS HIGHNESS'S ORDERS, he had collected the Chevalier's papers; but he need not say that,
on his honour, he (Geldern) himself had never examined the documents. His difference with Messieurs
de Magny was known; he begged his Highness to employ any other official person in the judgment
of the accusation brought against the young Chevalier.

'All these things were going on while the Chevalier was at play. A run of luck--you had great
luck in those days, Monsieur de Balibari--was against him. He stayed and lost his 4000 ducats.
He received his uncle's note, and such was the infatuation of the wretched gambler, that, on
receipt of it, he went down to the courtyard, where the horse was in waiting, absolutely took
the money which the poor old gentleman had placed in the saddle-holsters, brought it upstairs,
played it, and lost it; and when he issued from the room to fly, it was too late: he was placed
in arrest at the bottom of my staircase, as you were upon entering your own home. 

I'm young, time has not passed, I have before me the main events of my youth; shaking hands
with old friends, in my mind was playing terrible sweet emotions of youth, burning of triumph,
despite the defeat, the great joys and large penalties, associated in the memories as they are
in life. On all my feelings one dominates, which always led my actions during this eventful period 1805
and 1834. Near the tomb, and considered the most useless of men, still do tears to my eyes, holy
love of the fatherland! Instead I I can still consecrate a word mean cursing the skeptic who
denies you, and you corrupted confused philosopher with the interests of one day.

In this sense devoted my manhood and he consecrate this slaughter
of my last years, putting by tutelary genius or guardian angel of
my life writing, and it was my life real.

I will tell you many things. Trafalgar, Bailen, Madrid, Zaragoza, Gerona, Arapiles! ... From all this
say something, if you lack patience. My story is not as beautiful as should, but will do my
best to be true.

-II-

In one of the first days of October of that fateful year (1805), my noble master called me his
room and looking at me with his usual severity (quality only apparent, as his character was very
soft), I said:

"Gabriel, are you a man of courage?"

I did not know at first what to answer, because, really, in my fourteen years of life not habíapresentado
I still amazing opportunity to [1] world with no heroic deed, but
the [2] hear me call me so proud, and seems both unseemly deny my
value to any person who had so greatly, I replied with childish arrogance

"Yes,
my lord, I am a man of value."

Then that distinguished man, who had shed their blood in a hundred battles glorious, without
that for this disdain to deal confidently to his loyal servant, he smiled at me, led me motioned
me to sit, and was about to put my knowledge in any important decision when loves his wife and
Doña Francisca suddenly came into the office to give greater attention
to the conference, and began to speak extravagantly in these terms:

-
No, not going ... I certainly will not go to the top.

For not so! ... At your age and when you're out of service for old! ... Oh, Alonsito, you've
come to the seventies and you're not for parties!

I think I am still seeing that as angry respectable lady with her large bonnet, her organdy skirt,
her white curls and hairy mole on the side of the beard. I cite these four heterogeneous details,
because without them it can not represent my memory. She was beautiful in old age, such as
Santa Ana de Murillo, and her beauty would have been perfectly respectable, and comparison with
the mother of the Virgin accurate, if my lady had been silent like a painting.

D. Alonso, somewhat unnerved, as usual, whenever I heard, replied:

"I need to go, Paquita.

According to a letter just received from the good Churruca, the squad be combined, or leave
Cádiz leading the fight with the English, or wait in the Bay, if they dare to enter. Anyway,
the thing will be sounded. "

- Well, I'm glad, "said Dona Francisca -. There are Gravina, Valdés, Cisneros, Churruca Alcalá
Galiano and Alava. That grind hard on those English dogs. But you are made an old thing, not
to serve God damn thing.

Still can not move arm dislocated left you at Cape San Vicente.

My master moved his left arm with a gesture scholar and warrior, to prove that he had expeditious.
But Dona Francisca, unconvinced with flimsy argument, he continued screaming in these terms:

"No,
not go to the top, because there is no need for fright as you. If you had forty years, as when
you went to Tierra del Fuego and brought me these 'green collars Indian ... But now ... Because
I know that you Marcial calzonazos warmed helmets last night and
this morning, speaking to battle.

I think that Mr. Marcial and I have to fight ... Turn it to the boat if you will, for the taking of
his leg that is ... Oh, San Jose blessed! If I had known my fifteen it was seafarers ... What
a pain! Ni a day of rest!

He married one to live with her husband, and maybe a dispatch from Madrid comes in two Palotada
send it to me I do not know where, to Patagonia, Japan or hell. Is a ten or twelve months without
seeing him, and finally, if you eat wild gentlemen, again made a misery, so sick and yellow
do not know a what to do to return to their natural color ... But
it does not fit old bird cage, and suddenly comes another little office
in Madrid ... You go at Toulon, Brest, to Naples, here or yonder,
where he wants to bribonazo the First Consul ... Ah, if everyone did
what I say, how soon would pay all together this gentleman so upset
that brings the world!

"

My master smiled a bad picture tacked to the wall, and, awkwardly lit unknown artist, depicting
the Emperor Napoleon, riding on a green horse, with the famous redingote smeared with vermilion.
No doubt the impression left on me that work of art that I saw for four years, was due to
amend my thoughts on the suit Smuggler's great man, and I shall henceforth
represent Cardinal Dress and riding a green horse.

"This is not living - Dona Francisca continued waving his arms -. God forgive me, but I hate sea,
but say it is one of his best works. I do not know what it is for the Holy Inquisition If ash
does not make these deviled warships! But come here and tell me: Why what is it to sit throwing
bullets and more bullets, without more, placed on four tables that if they break, into the sea
hundreds of unhappy? Is it not tempting God? Y these men go crazy when they hear a gunshot!
Pretty funny! To me shake me meats when I hear, and if everyone thought like me, there would
be no wars at sea ... and all the guns would become bells. Look, Alonso - said stopping in
front of his husband - and I think I have beaten several times.

Do you want another? You and those other as crazy as you, are you not satisfied after the 14
[3]

D. Alonso clenched his fists when he heard the sad memory, and did not utter an oath of marine
respect for his wife.

"The guilt of your stubbornness to go to the top - the lady added more and more angry - the Marcial
has the rogue, the devil sailor who had drowned a hundred times, a hundred sometimes been saved
to torment me. If he wants to return to sea with his wooden leg, his arm broken, his eye minus
his fifty wounds, to be in good time, and God willing Apparently not here again ... but you
do not go, Alonso, you're not because you're sick and it has served well the King, who incidentally
has rewarded you very badly, and me you, you throw in the face Mr.
Generalissimo of the land and sea captain gallons you have ten years
... A faith that Admiral should have made you at least that You deserved
tired when you went to the issue of Africa and brought me those blue
beads that, with the collars of the Indians allowed me to decorate.

-
Whether or not Admiral, I must go to the top, Paquita - "my love -.

I can not miss to that fight. I have to charge to the English some delinquent account.

- Well are you to collect these accounts - "my love -: a sick man and half crippled ...

- Gabriel go with me - said D. Alonso, looking in a way that instilled value.

I made a gesture indicating my agreement with such heroic project,
but took care of that Francisca saw me, which I have drawn attention
to the overwhelming weight of your hand if you observe my warlike
provisions.

This, when her husband seemed resolved, more furious, vowed that if re-birth not marry any marine
pests thousand Emperor said, our beloved King, Prince Peace, of all
the signatories of the treaty of subsidies, and concluded by assuring
the brave ocean that God would punish him for his foolish recklessness.

During

the dialogue we have referred, without answering for their accuracy, they only found me in vague
memories, a strong and barking cough, ringing in the next room, announced that Martial the giddy
old, heard from the fiery declamation near my mistress, who had cited several times with little
feedback benevolent. Eager to take part in the conversation, for which authorized him the
confidence he had in the house, opened the door and introduced himself in my master bathroom.

Before
going further, I want to give it some news, as well as his noble
consort for better understanding of what will happen.

-III-

D. Alonso
Gutiérrez de Cisniega belonged to an ancient family of the same Vejer.

Consagráronle a naval career, and since his youth, being a midshipman, he distinguished himself
honorably in the English attack directed against Havana in 1748.

He was part of the expedition which left Cartagena against Algiers
in 1775, and is also found in the attack of Gibraltar the Duke de
Crillon in 1782.

Later embarked for the expedition to the Strait of Magellan corvette in Santa Maria de la Cabeza,
who commanded Don Antonio de Cordova, also found in the glorious battles he held the Anglo-Spanish
against the French front Toulon in 1793, and finally ended his glorious career in the disastrous
encounter Cape St. Vincent, commanding the Mexican vessel, one who had to surrender.

Since then, my master, who had risen in line with their work and long career, retired from service.
As a result of wounds received on that sad day, fell sick body, and hardest of the soul, despite
the consequence of defeat. Curábale his wife with love, though not without shouting, cursing
for the navy and the sailors was in his mouth as usual as the sweet
names of Jesus and Mary on the lips of a devotee.

Francisca was a great lady, exemplary, of noble origin, devout and God-fearing as all the females
of that time, charitable and unobtrusive, but with the most vicious and demonic genius I ever
met in my life.

Frankly, I do not feel as angry that innate temperament, but rather created by the troubles that
led to the unsavory profession her husband, and it must be confessed that he did not complain without
reason, for this marriage, which for fifty years could have twenty children to the world and
God, had to content with only one: the charming and peerless Rosita, who will speak later. For
these and other reasons, Doña Francisca asked to heaven in his daily prayers the annihilation
of all European squads.

Meanwhile, the hero was consumed in Vejer watching sadly moth-eaten and gnawed his laurels
of, and pondered and pondered all the time on an important topic,
namely, that if Cordova our squadron commander, had sent luff to port
instead of ordering the move to starboard, the vessels Mexican, San
Jose, San Nicolas and San Isidro have not fallen into the hands of
the English and the English admiral Jerwis would have been defeated.

His wife, Marcial, until I myself, exceeding my powers, we said that the thing had no doubt,
to see if giving us believe it tempered the ardor of their hobby alive, but neither of those:
his hobby accompanied him to the grave.

Eight years after that disaster, and the news that the combined fleets would to have a decisive
encounter with the English, produced in him a certain excitement that seemed rejuvenate. He,
therefore, in the flower of which was to go to the square to witness the undoubted defeat their
mortal enemies, and even though his wife tried to dissuade him, as
I said, could not divert him from such bizarre purpose.

To understand how passionate was his desire, suffice it to say that dared to oppose, while
avoiding any dispute, the firm will of, and I must warn, that will have an idea of ​​the stubbornness
of my master, that he had no fear of the British or the French or the Algerians, or the wild Strait
Magellan, or the sea upset, or to aquatic monsters, or the noisy storm or the sky or the earth
was not afraid of anything created by God, rather than his holy women.

Réstame now to the sailor, the object of hatred more alive by Doña Francisca, but loving and
loved by my love brotherly D. Alonso, who had served.

Marcial (I never knew his last name), known among sailors Middle-man, had been boatswain in ships
of war for forty years.

At the time of my story, the look of this hero of the seas was most unusual that you can imagine.
Go figure you, gentlemen, an old man, rather tall than short, with
a wooden leg, left arm cut about below the elbow, an eye less, face
a multitude of chirlos scrawled in all directions and disorder traced
by enemy weapons of different kinds, with dark complexion and tanned
like all old sailors, with a hoarse voice, hollow and lazy not resembled
the sound of any inhabitant of the mainland, and may form an idea
of ​​this character whose memory makes me deplore the dryness of my
palette, because faith that deserves to be painted by a skilled portraitist.

I can not say whether laugh or appearance commanded respect, I believe that both at the same time, and
depending on how you look at him.

It can be said that his life was the story of the Spanish Navy in the latter part of the past
and present principles, history in the pages of the glorious alternate actions with unfortunate
miseries. Marcial had sailed in the Conde de Regla, in the San Joaquin in the Real Carlos, in
Trinidad, and other heroic and unfortunate vessels apparently defeated with honor and treachery
destroyed, plunged to their old boards the power Spain's naval.

In addition to campaigns he took part with my master, the Middle-man had attended many others
such as the expedition to Martinique, the action of Finisterre and
before the terrible event Strait, on the night of July 12, 1801, and
the battle of Cape Santa Maria, October 5, 1804.

At the age of sixty-six years, retired from service, but not for lack of spirit, but because
and was completely dismasted and out of combat. He and my master was in earth two good friends,
and as the only daughter should find Boatswain's married to a former servant house, resulting
from this union a grandson, Middle-man decided to take forever anchor,
as an old pontoon useless for war, and even got to the illusion he
liked the peace.

See enough to understand that employment could be more difficult than to that other glory of a hero
was to take care of kids, and in fact did Marcial other than loading, distraction and sleep on
his grandson, whose task it was enough for her songs seasoned sailor with an oath, the trade
itself.

But knowing that the combined fleets prepared himself for a big fight, he felt reborn dampened
enthusiasm his chest, and dreamed that he was sending the crew on the quarterdeck bow of the
Holy Trinity. As in D. noticing Alonso same symptoms flare was crossed with him, and since
then spent most of the day and night communicating, news well received as their own feelings,
talking past events, making conjectures about the future and daydreaming, and two apprentices
in intimate confidence calculate how to reach admirals.

In this trap, bringing alarmed Dona Francisca, was born the project
to embark in the square to witness the next fight.

You know the opinion of my loves thousand naughty trickster said the sailor, and know that
D. Alonso insisted on putting running so bold thinking, accompanied by his page, and now remains
for me to relate what all said when Martial was presented to defend the war against the shameful
status quo Dona Francisca.

-IV-

"Mr. Marcial - said it with redoubled fury: - if you want to go to the top to give the last hand,
you can board at any time, but what this does not go away.

- Well - said the sailor, who had sat on the edge of a chair, holding only space to hold -: I
will go alone. The devil take me, if I run out throw the telescope at the party. "

Then he added with an expression of joy:

"We have fifteen ships,
and ships twenty-five Frenchies.

If they were all ours, not much needed ... Forty vessels and shipped a lot of heart! "

As reported the fire of a wick to one that is near and the excitement that radiated Marcial
eye lit the two, and cushioned by age, my good master.

"But Miss - continued Middle-man - bring a lot too.

So I like to me the functions: sending lots of wood where bullets and gunpowder Jumo much
hot air in cold weather. "

I forgot to say that Marcial, like most sailors, he used a vocabulary
of terminachos by more pilgrims, as is customary in seafarers of all
countries deface the home language to turn into a caricature.

Noting the majority of voices used by sailors, you see that are simply corruptions of the words common
suited to his temperament caught and energetic, always prone to short
all life functions, especially language.

Hearing them speak, it seemed at times the tongue is an organ in their way.

Marcial, as I say, became the names into verbs, and these household names, without consulting
the Academy. Also applied the vocabulary of sailing to all acts of life, assimilating the
ship with the man, under a forced analogy between the parties that and members thereof. For example,
talking about the loss of his eye, said it had closed the starboard gangway, and to express the
broken arm, said it had run out the port lookout.

For him the heart, the residence of courage and heroism, was the storeroom of gunpowder, as
well as the storeroom of viscocho stomach. At least they understood these words sailors, but
there were other daughters of his own invention philological, it only known and throughout its
value appreciated. Who would understand what they meant patigurbiar, chingurria and other vicious
names for the same kind? I believe, although I assure you, that meant first doubt, and the second
sorrow. The action of drunk called it a thousand different ways, and among these, the most
common was put on the jacket, idiom whose meaning will not find my readers if not explain that,
having earned the English sailors casacones dictation without doubt because of his uniform, saying
drunk put his coat on, he meant Marcial ordinary action of his enemies. A foreign admirals called them
with quirky names, and created by him and translated his own way, noting similarities sound. A Señorito
Nelson called him, a voice that showed some consideration or respect; Uncle Collingwood Cramp, a phrase
that seemed to him exact translation of English to Jerwis named him as the English themselves, that
is, old fox Calder Perol uncle, because he found little relation between the two voices, and
following an entirely different language system, appointed to Villeneuve, head of the combined
fleets, with the nickname Monsieur Cornet, name taken from a farce whose representation Marcial attended
in Cadiz. In short, these were the nonsense that came from his mouth, I'll be forced to avoid annoying
explanations, to replace their usual phrases when referring to conversations he recalls.

Let us now. Dona Francisca, crossing himself, and said:

"Forty ships! It is tempting to Divine Providence.
 Similar notices were issued day after day. The services
of all her ladies, except two, were dispensed with. Guards were placed within and without her
doors; her windows were secured, so that escape from them was impossible: and you know what
took place ten days after. The church-bells were ringing all night, and the prayers of the
faithful asked for a person IN EXTREMIS. A GAZETTE appeared in the morning, edged with black,
and stating that the high and mighty Princess Olivia Maria Ferdinanda, consort of His Serene
Highness Victor Louis Emanuel, Hereditary Prince of X----, had died in the evening of the 24th
of January 1769. I rather wanted to know. Are very similar. Can not deny
that they are brothers. It is necessary to protect them. The sisters of one of my lavish customers!
By all means ...

In fact, from the master tailor, his officers and
others, succeeded in separating combatants and unravel the wheels
of vehicles, after which either could move on, Carry On carrying blood
stains the fourth in the coachman's shirt listing blue.

May protect the backs of the latter's coat of livery cloth, at least is not she saw the signs of the
fray.

And once you clear one area of ​​Agramonte and returned, the master tailor at the cutting table,
officers in their platform, the first clock suddenly pulled out of
his pocket and Air surprised, said: - All three! higher then adding:
- José Dolores!

Soon it to appear in the presence of the master Uribe.

He carried on his shoulder two skeins braided, a white linen thread, another black silk, stuck
in the braces of several needles short pants, not too thin, and the middle finger of his right
hand a steel thimble, bottomless.

The birth of José Dolores Pimienta, and Francisco de Paula Uribe attended undoubtedly equally
white and black races, with this essential difference, that it took more blood the former than
the latter, a circumstance that should be taken less bilious color of his face, though pale,
the regularity of her features, the breadth of his forehead, near perfection of the hands
and the smallness of the feet, so in the way in goal the bridge could compete with those of
Caucasian woman. Not to be delicate constitution cheekbones protruded long oval face, and had no
hair as woolly as Uribe. In his case, as in the eye, and sometimes even in the tone of voice,
had marked air of timidity and melancholy, it is not always easy to discern between them,
revealing, or too much modesty and tenderness of affection.

Musical organization had to be extremely violent, which could not take a door others, to barter
the clarinet, his favorite instrument, the thimble or the tailor's needle, one of the fine arts
by a mechanical trade and sedentary. But the need to have face heretic, as the typical adage
reads Spanish, and José Dolores Pimienta, although director conductors, often held in the church
choir during the day and in the dances of the fairs at night, it was not enough to meet their
own needs and those of her sister Nemesia, venting. Music in Cuba, like other arts, was not
rich, nor comforts provided even to its adherents. The famous toast, Ulpian, Vuelta y Flores
and others were more or less in this case.

- How about the green jersey indivisible? Uribe asked. Is it in test status? Are three and soon
will be here the gentleman Gamboa, as the clock.

- For how long ago that you gave me, Senor Uribe, "replied Pepper,
I have enough advanced.

- How is that?

Did not you gave it from behind before yesterday?

- Excuse you, Senor Uribe, I did not come to receive the pledge, if
we speak out, to yesterday morning. The Princess took her jewels in a casket; a
private door, opening from one of her rooms and leading into the outer gate, it was said, of
the palace, was discovered for her: and a letter was brought to her, purporting to be from
the Duke, her father-in-law, and stating that a carriage and horses had been provided, and
would take her to B----: the territory where she might communicate with her family and be safe. Then I did
not know the word sublime, but seeing our commander realized that all languages ​​must have a
beautiful word to express that greatness of soul that I thought rarely favor granted by God
to man miserable.

Meanwhile, many of the guns had ceased firing, because half of the people was out of action. Perhaps
I had not set in this circumstance, if having gone camera, driven by my curiosity, I did not feel
a terrible accent voice said to me "Gabrielillo, here!"

Marcial called me: I went quickly, and found him committed to serve
one of the guns had run out of people.

A bullet had taken a Middle man tipped his wooden leg, which made
him say:

"If I bring the flesh and blood ..."

Two seamen lay dead beside him, a third badly wounded, tried to follow
serving piece.

"Compadre - Marcial said - because you can not even light a cigarette."

Botafuegos tore the hands of the wounded and handed it to me saying:

"Here,
Gabrielillo, if you're scared, go to the water."

So saying, he loaded the gun with all the haste he could, helped a boy who was almost unharmed,
the primed and aimed, both cried 'fire', approached the wick, and cannon fire.

Operation was repeated for the second and third time, and the roar
of the cannon, shot by me echoed in an extraordinary way in my soul.

The considerable, not a spectator, but actor decided in such a great tragedy, for a moment dispelled
the fear, and I felt great impetus, at least with the firm resolve of pretending. Since then
I knew that heroism is almost always a form of honor.

Marcial and others looked at me: it was necessary to make me worthy of his attention.

"Ah - I said to myself with pride -.

If my mistress could see me now ... How brave am firing guns like
a man ... The least I sent the other two dozen world English '.

But these noble thoughts occupied me very little time because Marcial, whose weary nature began
to surrender after his effort, break forward, wiped the blood that
flowed plenty of his head, closed his eyes, his arms extended in dismay,
and said:

"I can not anymore: I was up the powder on the poop (the
head).

Gabriel, bring me water. "

I ran to fetch water, and when I brought, he drank eagerly. Seemed to be taking with this new forces:
we would follow, when a crash left us with no movement. The mainmast of notch cut short by,
fell on the waist, and behind it the mizzen. The vessel was filled of debris and clutter was
awful.

Fortunately I was in recess and without more than a slight head wound, which, although I was
stunned at first, did not stop me away bits of sail and ropes that had fallen about me. The
sailors and soldiers struggled to dislodge cover such a huge mass of bodies useless, and since
then only the low-battery artillery fire held.

I left as I could, I searched for Martial found him not, and having my eyes fixed on the quarterdeck,
I noticed that the commander was not there.

Astillazo seriously injured in a head, had fallen lich, and two sailors
went about to transfer to the camera.

Also ran away, and then a town of shrapnel struck me on the shoulder, which startled me extremely,
believing my wound was mortal and was to the last breath. My embarrassment did not stop me
enter the chamber, where for all the blood pouring from my wound me weak, leaving for a moment
vanished.

At the passenger lethargy, kept hearing the roar of the guns of the
second and third battery, and then a voice saying angrily:

'Approach!

... Pikes! ... Axes! "

After the confusion was so great that I could not distinguish what belonged to human voices in such
a huge concert. But I do not know how, without leaving that dream state, I I charge that it
was believed all was lost, and that the officers were assembled in the camera to arrange the
surrender, and I can assure you that if it was invented by my imagination, so upset, echoed in
the waist a voice saying: "The Trinity is not surrender!". Of was fixed voice Marcial, if someone
actually said that.

I was awake, and saw my love thrown over a sofa for the camera head buried in his hands in a gesture
of despair and without caring for his wound.

I approached him, and the wretched old man found no better way to express his grief that embracing
paternally, as if we were both near death. He, at least, I think was considered near death of
pure sorrow, because his injury was not minor. I consoled him as best I could, saying that
if no action had been won, not because I left English enough to kill my small cannon, and added
that we would be lucky again; childish reasons that calmed his agitation.

Going

outside to fetch water for my master, I witnessed the act of lowering
the flag, yet floating in the crab, one of the few remaining aloft
with the trunk were mizzen standing.

That glorious canvas, and pierced by a thousand parts, a sign of
our honor, which gathered under its folds all combatants, down from
the mast to be lifted no more.

The idea shot of pride, a spirit tried to succumb to superior force, can not find more perfect image
to represent the human eyes than those oriflamme that folds and disappears as a setting sun. On
that afternoon, sad, touching at the end of his career at the moment we surrender our flag
illuminated with last ray.

The firing ceased and the British entered the boat up.

-XII-

When the spirit, resting from the turmoil of battle, had time to give way to compassion, Cold terror
produced by the sight of such great slaughter, was presented to the eyes of those we were living
the scene of the ship in all its horrific glory. Until then tempers had not addressed rather
than the defense, but when the firing ceased, they could see the
great destruction of the town, which give entry into the water by
his thousand faults, plunged, threatening to engulf all, living and
dead, at the bottom of the sea.

He just entered the English, a cry echoed unanimously handed down
by our marine:

"At the bombs!"

All we could we go to them and work with ardor, but those imperfect machines evicting a much
smaller amount of water than entered. Of Suddenly a cry, even more terrible than the last,
filled us with horror. I said that the wounded had carried the last cockpit, rather than by
being under the waterline, free from the action of the bullets. The water quickly invaded that
place, and some marine peered through the hatch crying

"To drown
the wounded!"

Most of the crew hesitated whether to continue evacuating the water and to the rescue of those
bastards, and I do not know what had become of them if the people of an English ship had not come
to our aid. These not only transported the wounded to the third and the second battery, but also
put hands to the pumps, while his carpenters tried to repair some
of the failures of the hull.

Dog-tired, and judging that Don Alonso might need me, I went to the camera. Then I saw some
English occupied in putting the British flag at the stern of the Holy Trinity. As I expect
that the kind reader to forgive me you record my impressions, I will say that what made me think
a little. I always had represented England as true pirates and highwaymen of the seas, adventurous
gentezuela nation was not living of loitering.

When I saw the pride with which they raised their flag, greeting him with cheers cheers, when I
realized the joy and satisfaction that caused them to have captured the largest and most glorious
boat until then sailed the seas, I thought that they too have their beloved homeland, which
it would have entrusted the defense of their honor, I thought that
in that land, for me mysterious, called England, had to exist, as
in Spain, many honest people, paternal king, and mothers, daughters,
wives, sisters brave marine which, anxiously awaiting his return,
pray to God to grant them victory.

In the camera I found my Lord calmer.

The British officers who had come there trying to ours with delicate courtesy, and as I understood
they wanted the injured transship to any enemy ship.

One of those officers came to my master as if to recognize, and greeted
him in Spanish fairly correct, reminding an old friendship.

Answered D. Alonso to their fineness with gravity, and then he wanted to learn the details of the
battle.

"But what happened to the reservation? Gravina What have you done? - Gravina asked my master
has retired .-- some ships - said the Englishman.

- In the forefront
only came to our aid the Ray and Neptune.

- The four French-Trouin
Duguay, Mont-Blanc, Scipio and Formidable, are the only have not taken
action.

- But Gravina, Gravina, Gravina what is? - Insisted my master.

-
Had been withdrawn in the Prince of Asturias, but as it was given
chase, I do not know if there will come Cadiz.

- And the San Ildefonso?

-
Has been arrested .-- And the Santa Ana?

- It has also been arrested
.-- By God! - Said D. Alonso could not hide his anger -.

I bet that has not been arrested on Nepomuceno.

- Also has been .-- Oh, are you sure? What Churruca?

- Death - English replied sadly.

- Oh! He is dead! He died Churruca! - Cried my love with anguished
perplexity -.

But Bahama will be saved, will be returned unharmed Bahama Cadiz.

-
It has also been arrested .-- Too!

And Galiano? Galiano is a hero and a sage.

- Yes - said somberly in English - but also dead.

- What is Mountaineer? What has become of Alcedo?

- Alcedo ... has died. "

My master could not repress the expression of grief, and as the elderly
amenguaba in his own presence of mind of those terrible times, had
to make small decline in shedding a few tears, sad gift to his teammates.

It is improper to cry in great souls, but rather indicates the fruitful partnership of the
delicacy of feeling with strength of character. My master wept as a man, having done their
duty as a sailor, but recovering from this depression, and seeking
some reason to be returned English grief this caused him, said:

"But
you will not have suffered less than ourselves.

Our enemies have had losses consideration.

- A mostly irreparable - so said English heartbreak like D. Alonso -.

We lost the first of our sailors, the bravest of the brave, the heroic, the divine, the sublime
Admiral Nelson. "

And with so little integrity as my master, the British officer was not careful to hide his
immense penalty: covered his face with his hands and wept, with all the frankness of true expressive
pain, boss, protector and friend.

Nelson, mortally wounded in the middle of combat, as I later learned,
by a bullet that pierced his chest and looked at the spine, said Captain
Hardy: "It's over, the order to have succeeded.

" His agony was prolonged until nightfall, lost none the details of combat, or died in military
genius and a sailor, but when the last fleeting pulse of life vanished out of his body hurt. Haunted
by horrific pain, he continued to issue orders, learning the movements of both teams, and when it was
told of his triumph, he exclaimed: "Blessed be God, I have done my duty."

Fifteen minutes after the first marine expiring century.

Will pardon the digression. The reader will be surprised that we did not know the fate of many
ships of the combined squad. Nothing more natural than our ignorance, because of the disproportionate
length of the line of battle, and the system of partial struggles adopted by the British. Their
ships had mingled with ours, and as the race was a gunshot, the we beat the enemy ship hid
the view of the rest of the squad, plus the smoke very thick as we could not see was not in
place soon.

In the evening, and when even the shelling had not stopped, we distinguished some ships, passing
long as a ghost, a half-masting, others completely treeless. The haze, smoke, the same stunning
overhead, prevented us from distinguishing whether they were Spanish or enemies, and when the light
of a distant flash lit a panorama that stretches fearful we felt that the fight was still
bitterness among isolated groups of ships, that others ran without concert or direction, carried
by the storm, and that some of us English was being towed by another heading south.

Night came, and with it increased the gravity and horror of our situation.

It seemed that Nature had to be favorable after so many misfortunes, but on the contrary, elements
desencadenáronse furiously, as if Heaven was not yet thought enough large number of our misfortunes.
Desatose a tough time, and wind and water deeply shaken, struck the ship, unable to maneuver,
fluctuating at the mercy of the waves. The swings were so strong that it was hard work, which,
coupled with the fatigue of crew, our state worsened by the hour. An English ship, which later
I was Prince called, he tried to tow the Trinity, but their efforts were futile, and had to away
for fear of a crash, it would have been fatal to both vessels.

Meanwhile it was not possible to take any food, and I was starving,
because others indifferent to everything that was not the danger,
just took care of something so important.

I dared not ask for a piece of bread for fear of seeming importunate,
and at the same time without shame I confess, my searching observation
led to all the sites I gathered that there could be provisions in
the mouth.

Pressed by necessity, I ventured to make a visit to the storerooms
of the cake, and what was my surprise when I saw that Marcial was
there racked his stomach first thing that came to hand?

The little old man was wounded seriously, and though a bullet had been the right foot, as this
was not anything other than the tip of the wooden leg, the body of
Marcial just had a little mishap so lame.

"Here, Gabrielillo - I said, filling the heart of cookies -: ship does not sail without ballast."

Then tiptoe a bottle and drank with delight.

We left the locker, and saw that we were not ourselves who visited
that place, for all indicated that a messy looting had occurred there
moments earlier.

Repaired my strength, I could think of something to serve, drawing
his bombs or helping the carpenters.

Laboriously been amended a few faults with the help of the British who kept everything, and as
I finally understood, did not lose sight of some of our sailors, fearing that rioting, damming
the ship, in which the enemy displayed more suspicion that sense, it was necessary to have lost
his mind to try to dam a ship in such a state. This is for casacones went everywhere and did
not lose movement whatsoever.

Late at night, and found myself transfixed from the cold, abandoned housing, which could hardly
have me, and also ran the risk of being snatched by a heavy sea, and retired to the camera. My first
intention was to sleep a little, but who slept that night?

In the chamber all was confusion, as in the waist. Those who are well attended to the wounded,
and these, disturbed both by their pains and ship motion, which prevented them from all rest,
offered so sad looking, which light could not be delivered to the rest. On one side of the
chamber lay, covered with the national flag, the dead officers. Amid such desolation, at the
sight of so much pain, had in those bodies I do not know what an enviable: they rested alone
on board the Trinidad, and everything was alien to them, fatigue
and sorrow, the shame of defeat and physical ailments.

The flag will served as a pall seemed to illustrate that put them outside the sphere of responsibility,
decrease and despair that we all are. Nothing will affect the danger to the ship, because
it was no longer his coffin.

The officers killed were: D. Juan Cisniega, lieutenant, which had no relationship Despite my love
of the identity of name; D. Joaquín de Salas and D. Juan Matute, also Lieutenant, Army Lt.
Col. D. José Graullé, Lieutenant Frigate Uriah and midshipman Don Antonio de Bobadilla. The sailors
and soldiers dead, whose warrantless corpses lay in the batteries
and cover amounted to a terrible amount of four.

I will never forget the time that those bodies were thrown overboard by order of English officer
guarding the ship. Verificose the sad ceremony at dawn 22, at which time the storm that raged
exprofeso seems to increase struck fear of such scene. On deck removed the bodies of the officers,
the priest recited a prayer for all hurry, because he was not beating opportunity drawings,
and immediately proceeded to the ceremony. Wrapped in the flag, with a bullet attached to the
feet, were thrown into the sea without this, that ordinarily would have occurred in all sorrow
and dismay, then moved him those who witnessed it.

As events were the spirits of misfortune that the spectacle of death was little they Unless indifferent!
The funeral of the sea are sadder than those of the earth. There is grave a corpse, and there
is: people who are interested know that there is an area of ​​land where there are those remains,
and can mark them with a slab, with a cross or a stone. But in the sea ... bodies are thrown
into the moving immensity, and it seems that no longer exist at the time of fall, the imagination
can not follow them on their journey to the deep abyss and is difficult to assume that they
are still somewhere at the bottom of the ocean. These reflections I was watching disappeared
the bodies of those illustrious warriors, one day before full of
life and glory of their homeland and charm of their families.

The dead sailors were thrown with less ceremony: Ordinance mandates that they wrap the coy [5], but
this time there was no time for fun to meet the Ordinance. Some are shrouded as it is sent, but
most were thrown into the sea without no dress and no bullet to the foot, for the simple reason that
it had for all. Were four, soon, in order to end soon burial operation was must put out to work
every able-bodied men on board had to dispatch sooner. Very reluctantly I had to give me my sad
cooperation service and Some bodies fell into the sea dropped from the side by my hand, put
the aid of other more vigorous.

Then came a fact, a coincidence that I did a lot of terror. A body horribly disfigured, was caught
between two sailors, and when you lift up, some of the bystanders were allowed coarse jokes,
which at all times have been advances, and in that infamous moment. I do not know why the body
of that unfortunate was the only thing they moved brazen lose respect for death, saying: "You've
already paid all together ...; will not act up "and other obscenities of the sort. That made
me angry, but My anger was changed into astonishment and indescribable feeling, a mixture of
respect, worth and fear when watching intently factions mutilated the corpse, I recognized him
as my uncle ... I closed my eyes in horror, and I did not open until the violent splashing I indicated
that water was gone forever to the human eye.

The man had been very bad for me, very bad for your sister, but it was my close relative, My mother's
brother, the blood running through my veins was his blood, and that inner voice urges us to be
kind to the faults of our own, could not remain silent after of the
scene that passed before my eyes. At the same time, I was able to
recognize in the face my uncle's bloodstained some facial features
of the face of my mother, and this increased my affliction. At that
time I remembered I had been a criminal, or less than the cruelty
he used me for my unfortunate childhood. I assure you, and no doubt
to say this, even in praise of mine, who forgave him with all my heart
and elevates thought to God, asking Him to forgive all your sins.

Later
I learned that he had acted heroically in battle, but why reach the
sympathy of his colleagues, who was known as the most wicked of men,
had no for him a word of affection or sympathy, even at the supreme
moment when all missing forgiven, because it is supposed to realizing
their criminal acts before God. I encouraged
him to come and see me oftener, and bring with him his little viscount; for whom, though the
boy always detested me, I took care to have a good stock of sweetmeats, toys, and picture-books
when he came.

I then began to enter into a controversy with Mr. Runt, and confided to him some doubts which
I had, and a very very earnest leaning towards the Church of Rome. I made a certain abbe whom
I knew write me letters upon transubstantiation, &c., which the honest tutor was rather puzzled
to answer. I knew that they would be communicated to his lady, as they were; for, asking leave
to attend the English service which was celebrated in her apartments, and frequented by the
best English then at the Spa, on the second Sunday she condescended to look at me; on the third
she was pleased to reply to my profound bow by a curtsey; the next day I followed up the acquaintance
by another obeisance in the public walk; and, to make a long story short, her Ladyship and
I were in full correspondence on transubstantiation before six weeks were over. 

(Gopa made a sign to enter, and enters Chandac, bringing on a golden platter's hair its wording.)

GOPA
(taking into his hands the golden plate and placed on the thalamus
.)--¡ many times dear hair, you were still pinned to his head, I kissed
my mouth and I caressed my hands!

You are already dead and separated from it. You are dead because you have no memory and no
I remember. I, too, separated from him like you ripped it as their prime stem, devoid of life, if my
life were not his memory.

PRATYAPATY .-- And why not also the hope that return to him?

GOPA .-- Because the memory is real and true, and false hopes and misleading, because the memory
Siddhartha evokes for me, love, tender, humane to me, all of it for me, and I for all him while I
deny that hope forever Siddhartha, and now only gives me Sakyamuni, and then, when Sakyamuni reach
its ultimate victory, to be incomprehensible, most luminous The stars and higher in power
than the gods, but less than Siddhartha, a young, beautiful and love.

PRATYAPATI .-- But will the Buddha Siddhartha liberator of men!

GOPA .-- Buddha never be worth it to me what Siddhartha worth. I deny the freedom that the
Buddha give me, and Trucco thousand times that Siddhartha slavery
enslaved me.

I cold quiet that the doctrine of Buddha provide me by turmoil and
war loving, with caresses, yields, jealousy, lack or even the disdain
of Siddhartha, I have disturbed and tormented.

TABLE III.

The scene is in the city of Frankfurt on Mein, 1866 years after Christ
and 2488 after Buddha.

Seelenführer room doctor. It is night. A kerosene lamp lights the room, where there is a lot tome.

Dr.
SEELENFÜHRER and author.

V. AUTHOR .-- I assure you, my dear doctor Seelenführer, every day I am more delighted to have you made
these friendly relations.

Listening to V. understand the intellectual movement Germany, in its most profound, and therefore
that of Europe, because (how not confess it?) north Germany is our
science and philosophy, almost from Leibnitz, and especially since
Kant. You live is a summary of what is now known or supposed to knows
you are a scholar in the latest fashion. All this amuses me a lot,
because it can not V. figure how fond I am of the philosophy, but
I confess that there are two little things that trouble me.

SEELENFÜHRER
.-- Blessed V., who just two little things afflict. I grieve and I
despair all!

'Is it not a pleasure, gentlemen,' said he, 'for me, as I am drawing near the goal, to find
my home such a happy one; my wife so fond of me, that she is even now thinking of appointing
a successor? (I don't mean you precisely, Mr. Barry; you are only taking your chance with a
score of others whom I could mention.) Isn't it a comfort to see her, like a prudent housewife,
getting everything ready for her husband's departure?'

'I hope you are not thinking of leaving us soon, knight?' said I, with perfect sincerity; for
I liked him, as a most amusing companion. 'Not so soon, my dear, as you may fancy, perhaps,'
continued he. 'Why, man, I have been given over any time these four years; and there was always
a candidate or two waiting to apply for the situation. I would drop dead of fright. Here we will be still, than it looks the danger
in it dies.

So that conversation ended, details of which I kept in my memory, despite the time elapsed. More
often happens that the facts too remote for our children, remain etched in the imagination more
intently than those witnessed in age mature, and if it prevails over
all powers of reason.

That night D. Marcial Alonso and continued lecturing in the few times that the suspicious Dona
Francisca leave them alone. When she went to the parish to attend the ninth, as the pious custom, the two
sailors breathed freely as busy school that lose sight of the teacher. Encerráronse in the office,
got some maps and were examining them with great care, then read some papers that had targeted
the names of many British ships with the number of its guns and crew and for their warm conference
that alternated with the strongest reading comments, I noticed that
devised the plan a naval battle.

Marcial imitated the gestures of his arm and half the teams progress, the explosion of the barrages,
with his head, the balance of the boats combatants with his body, falling the side of the ship
will sink, with her hand, raising and lowering of signal flags; with a slight hiss, the Boatswain's
command, with the blows of his club foot against the ground, the roar of cannon, with its slurred
language, oaths and unique voices combat, and as my master in this task with the utmost gravity,
I too take my room to spades, encouraged by example, and giving vent to that need natural eater
make noise that dominates the temperament of children with absolute rule. No poderme contain, seeing
the enthusiasm of the two sailors, I started pacing around the room therefore trust that was
treated by my master allowed me to do this, head shadowing arms and the provision of a vessel that
encircles the wind, while uttering, cupping voice, booming monosyllables that most resemble
the sound of a gun, such as Bum, bum, bum! ... My respected master, maimed sailor, as kids like me
at that time, did not stop lying about what I did, then fed them
seize their own thoughts.

How I laughed after recalling that scene, and how true it is, so far
my teammates in that game, the excitement of the old becomes the old
in children, renewing the antics of the cradle to the brink of the
grave!

They were very engaged in his lecture, when they heard the footsteps
of Dona Francisca returning from the ninth.

"What comes! - Marcial said with terror.

And the point kept the planes, concealing his excitement, and stood to talk about things indifferent.
But I, or because the young blood could not easily placated, either because not observe the
entry time of my mistress, kept in the middle of the room showing
my disposal with phrases such as these, uttered with the utmost self-confidence:
the starboard mura!

... Luffs! ... The barrage of lee! ... Fire! ... Bum, bum! ... She came to me angry, and without notice
me in the stern downloaded the barrage of her right hand with such good aim, I did see the stars.

"You
too! - Shouted mercilessly flogged -.

You see - he said looking at her husband with flashing Eyes -: you teach him to lose respect ...
Have you ever thought you were still in Caleta piece of rascal?

The beating continued as follows: I walk into the kitchen, crying and ashamed after lowered the flag
of my dignity, and without thinking about defending against an enemy
so superior; Dona Francisca behind hunting and giving me testing my
neck with repeated blows of your hand.

In the kitchen, threw the anchor, tearful, considering how bad my
fight was over naval.

-V-

To oppose the mindless determination of
her husband, Dona Francisca was not based only in the above reasons,
had, in addition to those, another powerful, not indicated in the
previous dialogue, perhaps too well known.

But the reader does not know and I'll decírsela.

I have written my master had a daughter. Now, this daughter was named Rosita, age slightly higher
than mine, as I just moved from fifteen years, and had arranged her marriage to a young artillery
officer named Malespina, a family of Medina, distantly related to that of my mistress. He had wedding
set for the end of October, and already understand that the absence of the father of the bride
objection would have been as solemn days.

I will say something about my girl, her boyfriend, their loves, their proposed link y. .. Alas,
Here are my memories take a melancholy tint, evoking images in my fantasy importunate and
alien as if from another world, waking up tired in my chest sensations, indeed, I do not know
if my spirit bring joy or sorrow. These burning memories that seem to wither away in my brain
today, as tropical flowers transplanted frozen north, sometimes make me laugh, and sometimes make
me think ... But let that the reader gets tired of annoying reflections on what a single mortal
care.

Rosita was very pretty. I remember vividly her beauty, though I would be very difficult to describe
his features. It seems I see before me smile. The singular expression on his face, that of any
other similar, for me, for the clarity with which it offered to my understanding, one of these
primitive notions, it seems we have brought from another world, or we have been infused mysterious
power from the cradle. And yet, no answer for being able to paint, because what was real as an
idea has become uncertain in my head, and nothing fascinates us Thus, just as nothing escapes
so subtly to any assessment specification as an ideal wanted.

Upon entering the house, I thought that Rosie belonged to a higher order of creatures. Explain my
thoughts so that you admire my simplicity. As children, and a new be coming into the world in
our home, older people tell us that you have brought from France, Paris or England. Deceived
myself and everyone about this unique way of perpetuating species, believed that the children
came to order, packaged in a drawer, like a bundle of hardware. Well, looking first to the daughter
of my masters, so reasoned that beautiful person could not have come from the factory where we
all come, ie Paris or England, and was persuaded of the existence
of an enchanting region, where architects divine styling knew so beautiful
specimens of the human person.

As children both, though in a different condition, soon we are dealing with self-confidence of age,
and my greatest joy was to play with her, suffering all their impertinence, that was great,
because our games are never confused classes: she was always miss,
and I always brought up so I had the worst, and if he blows it is
not necessary indicate here who received them.

Go get to leave school to accompany her home, was my golden dream, and when for any unforeseen
occupation was responsible for another person so sweet commission, my punishment was so profound
that I equated to the increased penalties that can go in life, being man, and said: "It is impossible
that when I grow up experiencing major disgrace." Upload his orders to the orange of the courtyard
to catch the blossoms of the highest branches, was to me the greatest delight, position or
prominence than that of the best king of the land uploaded on his
throne of gold, and I do not remember me joy comparable to that caused
by forcing to run after her in that divine and immortal game called.

If she ran like a gazelle, I flew like a bird to catch it soon, taking her on the side of his
body that was at hand. When the parts were reversed when she was the pursuer and I was for
being caught, they doubled the innocent pure and sublime delights of this game, and more dark and ugly
place, where I Shrunk and breathing, waiting for the printing of their eager hands shake, it
was for me a real paradise.

Add that never, during those scenes, I had a thought, a feeling that not emanating from the more
refined idealism.

And what I say about her singing? As a child I used to sing olé and reeds, with expertise of nightingales,
they know everything in music without having learned anything. All you praised that ability, and formed
a circle to hear, but I was offended applause of his admirers, and wished to silence others. That
song was a gurgle melancholy, even your child's voice modulated. The note, which impacted on
itself entangled and unraveling like a thread of sound, was lost up and faded away to return descending
with timbre. Emitted by a bird appeared, the first dating back to Sky, and then sing our own
ear. The soul, if I may use a simile vulgar, seemed to be lengthened following the sound, and then
shrank back to him, but always mindful of melody and music combining the beautiful singer.
Singular was the fact that for me to hear her sing, especially in
the presence of others, was almost a mortification.

We had the same age, more or less, as I said, it only exceeded mine yours in about eight or nine
months. But I was little and stunted, as she developed with great vigor, and thus, upon the expiration
of three years of my residence in the house, she seemed much older than me. These three years
have passed without suspicion us that we grew, and our games are
not interrupted, as she was more mischievous than I, and her mother
scolded her, trying to fix it and make it work.

After three years I noticed that the forms of my adored Miss widened and rounded, completing the beauty
of her body: her face was more on, fuller, warmer; her large eyes brighter, although the look less
erratic and volatile, his pace more leisurely; their movements do not know if more or less
light, but certainly different, but could not then nor I can now appreciate what the difference.
But none of these accidents me confused as well as the transformation of his voice, which gained
some serious sound good different from that mischievous and joyful squeal with calling me before,
turn the trial, and making me forget about my chores, to attend the
game.

The rose bud became and cocoon.

One fateful day a thousand times, thousand times gloomy, my mistress was presented to me in
a suit under. That transfiguration wrought in me such an impression that the whole day did not
speak a word. Was seriously as a man who has been cruelly deceived, and my anger against him was so great
in my soliloquies proved strong reasons that the rapid growth of my mistress was a felony. He woke
me fever reasoning, and on that controversial issue passionately myself in the silence of
my sleepless nights. What I was stunned to see that with a few yards of cloth had completely
changed its character. That day, a thousand times unhappy, I ceremonious tone spoke, commanding
me gravely and even disdain the tasks that unless I liked, and she, who so often was aiding and abetting
my laziness, then scolded me lazy. And all these, no smile, no jumping, or cute, not a fast race,
not a bit of olé, and hide from me for the look, or pretend angry
to laugh then even a disputilla, not even a slap with her soft little
hand!

Terrible crisis of existence! She had become a woman, and I remained child!

Needless to say, gone are the frolic and play, and I did not go to orange, whose blossoms grew
quiet, free from my girlfriend rapacity, developed with vigor leaves and luxuriously his provocative
fragrance, and did not run over the yard, nor did more trips to the school to bring her home,
so proud of my commission would have defended against an army, had it tried to take it. Since
then walked with Rosita the utmost caution and seriousness, several times I noticed a stairway
before me, careful not to show a single line one inch above your ankle beautiful, and this system
of fraudulent concealment was an affront to the dignity of one whose
eyes had seen somewhat higher.

Now I laugh considering how broke my heart with those things.

But had yet to occur more miserable. One year after its transformation, Aunt Martina Rosario cook,
Marcial and other characters of the easement, it occupied a certain day serious matter. Diligently
applying my ear, then I learned that there were rumors alarming Miss
was going to marry.

The thing was unheard of, because I did not know any boyfriend. But then I arranged all the
parents, and the strange thing is that sometimes went too bad.

As a young man of great family asked for her hand, and my masters on him. This young wine home
with his parents, who were a sort of counts and marquis, with a title booming. The claimant brought
his Navy uniform, in which served honorable body, but despite such elegant trappings, its
facade was very unpleasant. So it must have seemed to my mistress, it showed early on that
wedding disgust.

His mother tried to persuade her but in vain, and made him the most complete picture of the
good qualities of the groom, of high lineage and great wealth. The girl was not convinced, and
others opposed these reasons very strings.

But the main thing was silent rogue, and the main thing was that she had another boyfriend, whom the
truly loved. The other was an artillery officer, called, very good looks and gentle Fig. My mistress
had known him in the church, and the treacherous love over her, while prayed, because the temple
was always very suitable place for his poetic and mysterious enclosure
to open wide the doors to love the soul.

Malespina haunted house, which saw I several times, and much talked about in Vejer of these
loves, the other knew, and challenged. My master knew all when the news came home that had
mortally wounded Malespina rival.

The scandal was big. The piety of my masters are shocked both this fact, who could not conceal
his anger and Rosita was the main victim.

But it was months and more months, the wounded healed, and as Malespina was also a person of birth
and rich, were noted in the political atmosphere of the house that the young inklings D. Rafael
was going to enter it. Resigned to link parents of the injured, and instead presented the winner's
home to ask for his son the hand of my dear mistress. After some delay, it is granted.

I remember when I was there. He was a man very dry and straight, with thirty sucks colors many
flaps on the clock, large queues, and a long nose and sharp, with which he seemed sniff out people
who supported the conversation.

He talked a blue streak and kept get a word to the others, he said it all, and could not praise
anything, because the point out saying he had something better. Since then I crossed out and
mentirosísimo vain man, as I was able to see clearly later. My masters received him with open
arms, as that her son, that he was coming. Since then, the boyfriend continued to going home every
day alone or in company with his father.

Further processing of my mistress. His indifference to me was so marked that touched the limits
of contempt.

Then I could see clearly for the first time, cursing the humility of my condition, trying to
explain the right they had the superiority of really were superior, and I wondered, in anguish,
if it was fair for others to be nobles and wealthy and wise, while I was on the Creek ancestry,
for my person only wealth, and could barely read. Displaying the reward was my ardent love,
I realized that nothing could suck in the world, and only later acquired the firm conviction that
a large constant effort of mine I would perhaps everything that did not possess.

In view of the indifference with which she treated me, I lost confidence,
I do not dare to deploy lips in his presence, and filled me with more
respect than their parents.

Meanwhile I attentively observed the signs of love that dominated. When he took, I saw anxious
and sad at the slightest sound to indicate the approximation of one, was turned on its beautiful face
and her dark eyes shone with anxiety and hope. If he came at last he could not hide her joy,
and then were talking hours and hours, always in the presence of Dona Francisca, because my teacher
was not consented to talks alone or in bars.

There were also long correspondence, and the worst part is that I was mailing two lovers. That gave
me a rage ...! Under the slogan, I went to the plaza, and there was, more timely than a watch,
the Master Malespina, which gave me a note to deliver it my lady. Fulfilled my order, and she gave
me another to carry it. How often felt temptation to burn the letters, not to get your fate!
But my luck, I serenity to dominate so ugly purpose.

Needless to say, I hated Malespina.

Since he looked into my blood was inflamed, and if I ordered something, doeth the worst possible
way, meaning you willing my high anger. This detachment that they
thought bad parenting and me a burst of courage, elevated own hearts,
gave me some reprimands and, above all, gave rise a phrase from my
teacher, who stabbed me in the heart as a painful thorn. In some occasion
I heard him say:

"This kid is so spoiled, you will need to send him
away."

At length the day fixed for the wedding, and pointed out a
few before and told her what happened and my master's project. There had been jolly horses
in those stables once; and I could see my uncle's honest face, and hear him talking to his
dogs as they came jumping and whining and barking round about him of a gay winter morning. This responded to the voice of his boss with a supreme effort, forced to
surrender to the British who were guarding the ship, again hoisted the Spanish flag, and Santa
Ana was free, but engaged in another struggle, perhaps more dangerous than first.

This singular audacity, one of the most honorable episodes of Trafalgar day is conducted in a
dismasted ship, rudderless, with half of its people killed or injured, and the remainder in
a moral and physical situation entirely regrettable. Was necessary, once consummated that act, addressing
its consequences: two English vessels, also very poor showing, made fire on the Santa Ana, but
it was promptly rescued by the Assisi, Montana and Lightning, three of which were removed
with Gravina day 21, and had gone out to rescue the imprisoned. Those noble invalid locked new
and desperate struggle, perhaps with more courage than the first, because the wounds not trapped
fuel the rage in the soul combatants, and they seem to fall out with more zeal, because they
have less life to lose.

The incidents all the terrible day 21 were renewed in my eyes: the excitement was great; but people
are scarce, so it was necessary to duplicate the effort. Become so sensitive is that heroic
had been in our history more than a short page, if it is true that with the great event is now
known as the Battle of Trafalgar of these episodes shrink and disappear
almost as weak flashes in a horrific night.

Then I witnessed an event that made me shed tears. Not finding my love for no hand, and fearing
to run any danger, I went down to the first battery and found him busy to point a gun. His trembling
hand had picked up the Botafuegos of a sailor injured and the weakened view of his right eye,
looking for the unfortunate point where I wanted to send the bullet.

When the piece is fired, he turned to me, trembling with joy, and
a voice that just I could understand, he said:

"Ah, now Paca not
laugh at me.

We will triumph in Cadiz. "

In short, the fight ended happily, because the British inability to
understand the of damming the Santa Ana, whom he favored, over the
three ships set, two and a French frigate, which arrived in the thick
of the fight.

We were free in the most glorious, but at the point at which concluded that feat, began to be
clear about the danger we were in, as the Santa Ana had to be towed to Cadiz, because of the
poor condition of its hull. The French frigate took a cable Themis steered north, but what that
force might have to tow another boat so heavy as the Santa Ana, and could only help with the
sails torn left in the club ratchet? The ships had rescued us, that is, the Lightning, Montana
and the San Francis of Assisi, later wanted to take his powers, and forced to sail to rescue also
to the San Juan and the Bahamas, which were marinated by the British. We were, therefore,
alone, without more shelter than the frigate that was dragging us, driving a giant child. What
would we be if the English, as expected, was recovering from his defeat and returned with new
reinforcements to haunt us? Meanwhile, it appears that Providence favored us because wind, conducive
to the progress that we had, drove to our frigate, and after her,
led lovingly, the ship was coming to Cadiz.

Five miles separated us from the port.

What unspeakable satisfaction!

Our troubles soon be completed and soon would put his foot on solid ground, and if we had
the news of major disasters, we had also happiness many who suffered fatal heart trouble believing
lost forever to returning alive and healthy.

The boldness of the Spanish ships was no more successful than the rescue of Santa Ana, for I uploaded
the time and had to retreat without being able to chase the English ships that guarding the
San Juan, Bahama and San Ildefonso. Even four leagues of the term
distábamos of our trip when we go back.

The storm had rages, and was general opinion aboard the Santa Ana that if it took us to arrive,
we would spend very hard time. New and more terrible trouble. Again lost hope in view of the
harbor, and when a few more steps about the terrible element would have put us in complete
safety within the bay.
To all the night they are coming up with terrible aspect: the sky,
full of dark clouds seemed to have flattened over the sea, and electrical
fumes, which swelled with short intervals, gave the awful twilight
tint. The sea, increasingly turbulent fury appeased yet so victim,
roaring with rage, and insatiable greed calling for greater number
of prey. Indeed I had made my uncle's order of the Spur hereditary, and travelled under
the name of the Chevalier Barry, chamberlain to the Duke of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen.

They gave me the best horses the stable possessed to carry me on my road to Dublin, and the
strongest ropes for harness; and we got on pretty well, and there was no rencontre between
the highwaymen and the pistols with which Fritz and I were provided. 

These words, which suddenly changed so radically the situation, astounded my masters, then a great
joy happened to the old sadness, and finally, when allowed strong emotion thinking about cheating,
I severely questioned, scolding by the great shock that had caused them. I apologized saying
it to me were counted as referee, and D. José María was furious, calling me rascal, liar and
intriguing.

Indeed, D. Rafael lived and was out of danger, but had remained in Sanlúcar home of people
known as his father came to Cadiz in search of his family to take next to the wounded. The reader
will not understand the origin of the mistake that made me announce as good faith with the death
of the young, but I bet that few suspect that some reading this great lie of the old Malespina
sent to my ears the news of a supposed misfortune. This was neither more nor less. As I learned after
going to Sanlúcar accompanying the family, D. José María had forged a novel of heroism and skill
on his part, in various cliques noted the strange case of the death of his son, if details,
circumstances so dramatic that for a few days the fictitious character was the object of praise
all for their dedication and courage. He said that, having sunk the boat, he had to choose
between saving his son and all others, opting for the latter, because to be more generous and
humanitarian. Embellished his legend with details as pilgrims, as interesting and yet so plausible,
that many believed it. But the deception was discovered soon and deception did not last long, although
the need to reach my ears, forcing submit it to the family. Although he had very bad idea of ​​the
veracity of the old Malespina, I could never believe that lying is allowed in matters as serious.

Past
those strong emotions, my love fell into deep melancholy, barely speaking, it would seem his
soul, lost the last hope, had liquidated all kinds of accounts with
the world and preparing for the final journey.

The absence of definitive Marcial took away the only that your child's friend senescence, and not
having to play with the boats, was consumed in deep sadness. Not even seeing him so depressed
Francisca relent in its task of mortification and the day of my arrival I heard him say:

"Bonita have made it ... What do you think?

Still not satisfied? Walk, walk to the top.

Was I right or did not have it? Oh, if was made for me ... Will you learn now?
 Meanwhile, Leonardo pretended not to notice the attitude abstracted from his
mother, or show signs of remorse for the embarrassment in which he had put his whimsical indications.
By contrast, while the poor lady meditated and threw stones, he ceased rubbing her cheeks
with the fingertips and looking at the ceiling, as if to tell lean-to rafters.

- You said Dubois, Rosa continued after the price of their new watches?

- Yes ... No. Why do you want to know the price? 

An officer who commanded the first battery up to take orders, and fell before speaking dead
at the feet of his head, another Marine guard standing at his side also fell badly wounded, and
Uriarte was finally entirely alone in the castle, covered with dead and wounded.

Even then withdrew his view of the British ships or the movements of our artillery, and the impressive
aspect of the quarterdeck and poop, where his friends and subordinates were dying, did not
touch his manly chest and broke his strong resolution to hold fire until perish. Ah, I remember
after the serenity and stoicism D. Francisco Javier Uriarte, I could
understand everything they tell us about the heroic masters of antiquity.


