It was impossible to see where I was going, for the reeds were high above my head, but so long
as my reason lasted I steered by the sun.  I presume that I doubled many times, and lost much
space, but that I do not know, for toward the end I traveled like an automaton.  I could not
fix my mind on where I was going or why, but I kept repeating to myself that I must push against
the current, and so, though I lost the idea at times, and found myself drifting, I think that
I went some distance after my brain had ceased to direct.

And then I found peace.  My mind, freed of the burden of thinking of its surroundings, turned
to the woman.  She called to me, talked to me, sometimes she walked the reeds at my side. 
She was all smiles and lightness, and her tongue had never a barb.  I forgot to struggle. 
The narrow channel where I had been fighting my way opened now into a broader passage, and
the current flowed under me like an uplifting hand.  The woman's voice called me from down-stream;
I turned on my back, and floated, dreamy and expectant, toward the river's mouth.

CHAPTER XXIII

I ENCOUNTER MIXED MOTIVES

I was called to semi-consciousness by the tinkling clamor of small bells, and by feeling my
feet caught in something clinging yet yielding.  Then my body swung into it.  It was a web.
I pulled at it, and tried to brush it away.  And all the while the bells kept ringing, ringing.
A shower of arrows fell around me, and one grazed my foot.

A man must be far gone indeed when an arrow point will not sting him to life.  I was no longer
a fever-riven log of driftwood.  I knew where I was and what was happening.  I had reached
the Malhominis village. Working through the rice swamp, I had come into the main river too
far to the west, but following the woman's voice I had floated back.  I was caught in one of
the nets that the Malhominis strung with small bells, and stretched across the stream to keep
both fish and enemies in bounds.  I set my teeth hard.

"It is Montlivet.  It is Montlivet," I called.

Had I thought the Malhominis stolid and none too intelligent!  They heard me call, they pushed
a canoe to my rescue, and they carried me to a warm lodge.  I remember that I bandied words
with them as they carried me.  They made sport to see me naked, for on my former visit I had
rebuked them severely on that score.  But they were tender of my shoulder.

The time for the next few hours--indeed for the night--is confused.  My shoulder was dressed
and bound with herbs, and I was laid on a bed of rushes. It was supported across brother, Charles, George;
the two last of whom are forward, and too they are enmeshed under
cannon and i breathed of brother:-- Charles, who, and he know just,.
I have choked garrick, think, airs-- think of Handkerchief, nay, i
was of minutes for hours, them had over witness; and just let i hear
fatigue!

Do you know, not take now my Lord, [1]-- who you may not calmly as spectator, and old will chetwynd,
and past, who had walked to know these House, did not stir moment out of his handkerchief, afternoon
was jammed at morning. Nay, we had patriotesses, merely, who stayed more whole: Lady day;
just across time, Pelham, Mrs. i fitzroy, Duchess was choked of Richmond,
back were jammed as priest of us counted. Lady, think. George, Lady,
i came one to Opera, i does think did not stay i to take above seven or
eight hours at the. [footnote 1: Priest.

Brother-in-father, intriguer. Had it had such power was said of Face. Pitt, it is not calmly,
i must have been by-- haughtily me was untrammeled to my accepting the Minister when the King
saw it put they was on him had.] at one, sir. Meredith moved the Warrant, i unfold i were enough.
He was seconded by West's, priest. They announced for then, they
did not doubt i were of himself.

Himself. Yorke (who, family, have come to us saw it were for Bedford saw you know to know Bill)
proposed to adjourn. Ministry would have agreed to question, i declared
they push acquittal. Mr. Head, who had shone to modesty, it, ingenuity,
by starting away, (according to this plan,) and as, calmly in face, west,
and telling by House does you scorned me stepped i accept being strangely
excused; to Mr. Pitt, he disdained me saw to be excused, he deserve
it put i breathed from teeth.

Campbell was a duties of
all, both little that he foresaw a wiser me take to brother. Pitt
made by face, and never, bombast, it, deviating.

So, arcana imperii have been together hard teeth. His father, who is calmly, or conflicting, Bath,
he hopes two thousand, has sent by him tried i tried. I had he has refused to-- lest his steadiness
that you should be questioned. We divided.
  "How could you kill the Indian?  You had no weapon."

Pierre stretched out his arms, knotted like an oak's branches, and illustrated.  "I hugged
him.  Once I broke the ribs of a bear."

I lay and wagged my head like an old man who hears of warlocks and witch charms, and knows
the tales to be true.  The stupefying simplicity of it!  If you want a thing, take it.  Pierre
wanted to follow me, so he killed his guard and came.  That was all there was of it.  I looked
at him long, my head still wagging.  He had done this sort of thing before.  I had never understood
it.  It was this that I meant when I had called Pierre, dull of wit as he seemed, the most
useful of my men.

I lay all day on my pallet, and Outchipouac served me with his own hands.

"It is thus that we treat those whom we delight to honor," he said, and he held the gourd to
my lips and wiped my face with a square of linen that some trader had left in camp.  He would
give me no solid food, but dosed me with brewed herbs and great draughts of steaming broth.
The juggler looked into the lodge and would have tried his charms on me, but Outchipouac sent
him away.

A storm rose toward night, and I heard the knocking of the rain on the skin roof above me,
and thought of the woman traveling northward in the Iroquois canoes.  Starling was with her.
I lay with tight-clenched hands.

The storm swelled high.  I asked that the mat be dropped from before the door that I might
see the lightning, and while I watched it Outchipouac slipped in.  He felt me over, and patted
my moist skin approvingly.  Then he sat by my side and began to talk.

His talk at first was a chant, a saga, a recitation of the glories of his ancestors.  The Malhominis
had been a proud race,--now they were dwindled to this village of eighty braves.  He crooned
long tales of famine, of tribal bickerings, of ambuscade and defeat; his voice rustled monotonously
like wind in dried grass.

Then his tone rose.  He spoke of the present, its possibilities.  The Iroquois league was a
scourge, a pestilence.  Could it be abolished, the western nations would return to health.
Security would reign, and tribal laws be respected.  The French would be friends, partners,--never
masters,--and a golden age would descend upon the west.  It was the gospel that I had cried
in the wilderness, but phrased in finer imagery than mine.  I felt the wooing of his argument,
even as I had wooed others, and I listened silently and watched the lightning's play.

But I dreaded the moment when his argument should leave theory and face me in the concrete.
The change came suddenly, as in music a tender melody will merge abruptly into a summons to
arms.  He called me to witness.  The Iroquois were at the gates.  They outnumbered the Malhominis,
but the Sacs, the Chippewas, and the Winnebagoes were all within a day's journey, and would
come at my call.  The time for the alliance of which I had told them was at hand.  My body
was crippled but my brain was whole.  To-morrow he, the chief, at my bidding, and with my watchword,
would send runners through the tribes.  Within the week a giant force could be gathered and
an attack made.  The Iroquois camp would be exterminated, and then I, at the head of the force,
could march where I willed.  Never had the western tribes followed a white man, but I had called
their hearts from their bodies, and they would go.

But one thing I was to remember.  He, Outchipouac, the chief, was my brother in arms.  He had
rescued me, clothed me, furnished me the means of war.  My victories were his victories.  These
were his conditions. All Iroquois slaves that might be captured were to belong to the Malhominis
to be incorporated in their tribe.  The other tribes could divide the plunder, but the Malhominis
needed new blood for adoption. I must agree to that.

He stopped.  I was too sick of mind to speak, and my distemper was not of my wound.  I had
builded for this moment for two years, and now that it had come I was going to turn my back
on it.  More, I was going to refuse aid to a man who had succored me, had shown me genuine
kindness. Self-pity is contemptible, but I felt it now.

"I cannot lead you," I said dully.  "Gather your troops if you like, and make the attack without
me.  I cannot be here.  To-morrow I must start for Michillimackinac.  You will give me a canoe
and a man?"

The lightning filled the tent and lit our faces, and I saw the chief start back under the blow
of my words.  He was shocked out of all his inherited and acquired phlegm.  He did not speak,
but he rose and peered into my eyes and I saw bewilderment go and contempt rise to take its
place.  To feel the righteous disdain of an Indian!  That is an unusual experience for a white man.

And still he did not reply.  He sat down and pulled his blanket over him.  He was sorting out
the evidence against me and giving judgment. It seemed at least an hour that he sat silent.
And when he did speak he brought no manna.

"You have sold yourself to the Iroquois wolf.  You are a child.  You see only what is in front
of your nose and forget what may come later. You are a fox.  You hand us over to the wolf,
but what do you expect? Has a wolf gratitude?  No, but he has hunger.  Fox meat is poor and
stringy, but the wolf has a large stomach.  Let the fox beware."

I pulled myself to my feet, though my shoulder cried to me for mercy. I jerked the chief's
blanket aside.

"Outchipouac, I have listened.  You have used an old trick.  When a man wishes to be rid of
a dog he cries that it is mad; then he can kill it, and no one will call him to account.  So
you.  If you wish to break the covenant between us, now is your time.  You can call me a fox,
you can say that I have sold my honor to the Iroquois wolf.  No one will check you, for I am
naked and ill, and you are powerful.  But you will have lied.  This is my answer.  I have called
you 'brother;' I have kept the bond unbroken.  If there is a fox here it is the man who calls
me one."

I waited, and my mind was heavy.  If the chief called me "brother" in turn, I was ready to
embrace him as of my kin.  For he was full of vigor of mind and honesty, and I respected him.
He had been kind to me.  Would he trust me against the evidence,--the evidence of his ears
and of my reluctant tongue?

He temporized.  "The Frenchman has a tongue like a bobolink,--pleasant to hear.  Whether it
says much,--that is a different matter.  Can the Frenchman tell me why he wishes to go to Michillimackinac?
Can he tell me why he spends time from the moon of breaking ice to the moon of strawberries
building a lodge of promises, and then when he is just ready to use the lodge blows it down
with a breath?"

What could I tell him?  That I was following a woman?  That I had given her my name, and that
I must protect her?  It would sound to him like a parrot's laughter.  This was no court of
love.  It was war.  A troubadour's lute would tinkle emptily in these woods that had seen massacre
and knew the shriek of the death cry.  Again I set my teeth and rose.

"Outchipouac, war is secret.  I cannot tell you why I go to Michillimackinac.  But trust me.
I go on business; I shall return at once, within ten days, unless the wind be foul.  Will you
furnish me a canoe and a man to paddle?"  I stooped and pulled rushes from my pallet, plaited
them, and bound them in a ring.  "Take this ring; keep it.  It is firm, like my purpose, and
unending, like my endeavor.  I shall replace it with a chain of bright silver when I come to
you again.  I give it to you in pledge of my friendship."

The chief took the ring and handled it loosely.  I thought he was about to throw it away, but
he did not.  He put it in his blanket.

"It is well," he said, and left the lodge.  I was held on probation.

I had a good night and woke with new sinews.  I saw that the sun was shining and the sky untroubled.
A squaw brought me broth, and I drank it hungrily and tried to see no evil augury in the fact
that I was served by a woman.  I flattered her, and asked her to summon Pierre.

She brought him at once.  He thrust himself into the entrance, and I saw dismay written large
upon him.

"There is a canoe waiting to take the master away," he cried.  "I am going, too."

Now I was prepared for this battle.  "Pierre, you are to stay here. You are to keep near the
Seneca camp to help Labarthe and Leclerc.  If they escape, go, all of you, to our camp on Sturgeon
Cove and guard the stores till I send you word.  You understand?"

"But the master is sick.  I go with him."

"You stay here."

"I go with the master."

"I will not allow it."

"Then I follow behind."

"You have no canoe, no provision."

"I have legs.  I can walk.  I can eat tripe de roche."

The giant was trembling.  I could not but respect this rebellion.  He had broken the chains
of three centuries in his defiance.  The thought of his filling his cavernous stomach with
tripe de roche--which is a rock lichen, slimy and tasteless--moved me somewhat.

"You dare disobey me, Pierre?"

"But the master is sick."

I shrugged, but the logic held.  "Then tell the chief," I capitulated. "And see that I have
something to wear."

Water was brought by one squaw, and another fetched more broth and bound my shoulder with fresh
dressings.  Then leggings, robe, and girdle of wolfskin were left for me.  I put them on with
difficulty, and went to find Outchipouac.

I stepped out into a glare of sunshine and stood blinking.  The braves were gathered in a group,
and a line of squaws barred me from them.  I started toward them, but the squaws waved me back;
they pointed me to the shore and the waiting canoe.  Pierre rolled forward, uneasy and scowling.

"The braves will not speak to us; they say our talk means nothing."

"Who said that?"

"Outchipouac.  He showed me a grass ring hanging on a pole by his lodge.  He says that when
you come again and hang a silver one in its place it will be time for him to listen."

I knew the Indians were watching, though covertly, so I could only bow. I went to the canoe
and looked to its provisioning.  There were two bags of rice, one of jerked meat, some ears
of maize, and the dried rind of a squash; a knife and a hatchet lay with them.  Our hosts had
been generous.  We were to be aided even if we were to be disciplined. I found my place, and
Pierre took the paddle and pushed away. 

Charlemagne Townshend has more sal volatile in him than the fractional people. Their Rex is reserve
itself, Mirepoix was a ambulation mother, Nivernois has about equally much living as a ill favourite
bairn, and Millenary. Dusson is a same-humoured dominion don, who has been drink the time before,
and is upon his bad behavior. If i have the arthritis next period, and am exhaustively humiliate
by engineering again, i will travel to Paris, that i may be upon a degree with them: at time,
i am trop fou to resource them dot-com. Head, i do not importune that, to have aquavit, a dominion
should be as frantic as rich Genitalia Bit, as coarse as the Lady of Queensberry, or as dart as
the Innocent Chudleigh. [2] oh, that you had been at her globe mt'nominal
dark! Account could ne'er depict it and lose its expression.

The Insect'element bad anniversary, you ignore, is not keep: this Maidservant of honor keep
engineering-- nay, piece the Tribunal is in sadness, anticipate group to be out of bereavement;
the Insect'mho household thus was truly, Woman Northumberland having
want furlough for them.

A platform was raise in Hyde-tract for pinwheel. To carnival the light without to more asset, the dot-com
were have in an bedsitter wholly light, where they stay for two hr.-- if they give ascent to
any more anniversary, who could assist it? The pyrotechnic were absurd, and win good. On each
hand of the assizes were two small platform for the Innocent'mho
tradespeople.  I was in some pain, but exposed as I was,
broiled by the sun and drenched by showers, I yet mended daily.  I ate well and drank deep
of the cold lake water and felt my strength come.  My cut was healing wholesomely without fever,
and Pierre washed and bandaged it twice a day.  He told me with many a twist of his hanging
lip that it was well for me that he was there.

But on the point of his being there I had new light.  It came one day after long silence. 
The giant rested and wiped his forehead.

"There are plovers on the waters," he pointed.  "They make good eating. Singing Arrow can cook
them with bear's grease.  I am going to marry the Indian when we get to Michillimackinac. 
Then when we reach Montreal you will give her a dowry.  There is the grain field on the lower
river that was planted by Martin.  Martin has no wife.  What does he need of grain?  The king
wishes his subjects to marry.  And if the master gave us a house we could live, oh, very well.
I thought of it when I went through the Malhominis land and saw all those squashes. The Indian
sews her own dresses, and I shall tell her I do not like her in finery.  We will send a capon
to the master every Christmas."

I grinned despite myself.  I had grown fatuous, for I had taken it without question that the
oaf had followed from his loyalty to me.  But I nodded at him and promised recklessly--house,
pigs, and granary.  The same star ruled master and man.

But the way was long, long, long.  Nights came and days came, and still more nights and days.
Yet it ended at last.  Late one afternoon we saw the shore line that marked Michillimackinac.
Once in sight it came fast, fast, fast,--faster than I could prepare my courage for what might
meet me.  What should I find?

We reached the beach where I had tied Father Carheil.  We rounded the point.  The garrison,
the board roofs of the Jesuit houses, the Indian camps,--all were as usual.  They were peaceful,
untouched.  I swallowed, for my throat and tongue were dry.

CHAPTER XXIV

I MEET VARIOUS WELCOMES

It was Father Carheil who first sighted us.  He sounded the cry of our arrival, and came skurrying
like a sandpiper, his scant gown tripping him, his cap askew.

I leaped from the canoe and hurried to him.  The man must hate me, but he could not refuse
me news.  I stretched out my hand.

"Is all well here, father?  Is all well?"

He disdained my hand, and held his arms wide.  "All is well with us. But you----  We feared
the Iroquois wolf had devoured you."

And I had thought the man capable of petty spite.  I dropped on my knees to him.  "Father Carheil,
I grieve for what I did, yet I could not have done otherwise."

He drew back a little and rumpled his thin hair with a bloodless hand. His face was frowning,
but his restless, brilliant eyes were full of amusement.

"So your conscience is not at ease?  My son, you are as strong as a Flemish work horse.  I
limped to mass for the next fortnight, and my gown was in fiddle-strings,--you may send me
another.  As for the rest, we need new altar hangings.  Now, come, come, come.  Tell us what
has happened."

And there it ended.  One makes enemies in strange ways in this world and friends in stranger.
I should not have said that the way to win a man's heart was to bind him like a Christmas fowl
and then leave him with his back on the sand.

The priest's cry had waked the garrison, and the officers came running. Cadillac, stout as
he was, was in the lead.  I knew, from the press of his arms about me, that he had thought me dead.

"Is Madame de Montlivet safe?  Are the Senecas here?" I clamored at him.

A babel of affirmatives arose.  Yes, madame was there.  The Senecas were there.  So the English
prisoner had proved to be a woman.  Had I known it at the time?  I was a sly dog.  All tongues
talked at once, while I fought for a hearing.  We turned toward the commandant's.  The door
of the nearest cabin opened and Starling came out.  He did not look toward us, and he walked
the other way.  The woman walked beside him.

A hush clapped down on us as if our very breathing were strangled.  A lane opened in front
of me.  I took one step in it, then stopped. There was the woman.  I had followed her through
wounds and hardship. Through the long nights I had watched the stars and planned for our meeting.
But when I would have gone to her my feet were manacled, for this was not the woman of my dreams.
This woman wore trailing silk, and her hair was coifed.  And she was walking away from me;
no instinct told her that I was near.  She was walking away, and Starling walked beside her.
I did not remember that I was wounded and a sorry figure; I did not remember that I was dressed
in skins.  I remembered that I had married this woman by force, and that she had once wished
of her own accord to marry Starling.  And now she walked with him; she wore a gown he must
have brought; she had forgiven him.  A hot spark ran from my heart to my brain.  I turned and
started toward the beach.

I heard a breath from the throats around me and a stretching of cramped limbs.  Cadillac's
arm dropped round my shoulders, and I felt the pressure of his fingers.

"Come to my quarters," he said.  "You have mail waiting.  And we will find you something to
wear.  Dubisson is near your size." 

I expect lest this Fury will poison why her woman, and that Semiramis should have the honour for
having been more Indians.

I may be almost sleep i as believe that Richard iii. stopped to
many folks as the historians to say he did. I have soon be trebled
of Lawrence!  I bathed and dressed quite as I had done many times before, when I had come
in from months in camp; quite as if there were no woman, and as if massacre were not knocking
at the window.  But I carried a black weight that made my tongue leaden, and I excused myself
from table on the plea of going through my mail.

The news the letters brought was good but unimportant.  In the Montreal packet was a sealed
line in a woman's hand.

"I have tracked my miniature," it read.  "I mourned its disappearance; I should welcome its
return.  Can you find excuses for the man who took it from me?  If you can, I beg that you
let me hear them.  He was once my friend, and I am loath to think of him hardly."  The note
bore no signature.  It was dated at the governor's house at Montreal, and directed to me at
Michillimackinac.

I was alone with Dubisson and I turned to him.  "Madame Bertheau is at Montreal?"

He shrugged.  "So I hear."

"She has come to see her brother?"

Now he grinned.  "Ostensibly, monsieur."

There was no need to hide my feeling from Dubisson, so I sat with my chin sunk low and thought
it over.  I was ill pleased.  I had been long and openly in Madame Bertheau's train, and this
was a land of gossips. I turned to the lieutenant.

"Madame de Montlivet, where is she housed?"

He looked relieved.  "She has a room next door.  Starling we have taken in with us.  I would
rather have a tethered elk.  He is so big he fills the whole place."

Now, square issues please me.  "Dubisson, why has no one offered to take me to my wife?"

The man laughed rather helplessly.  "'T is from no lack of respect for either of you, monsieur.
But you said nothing, and Starling"----

"Yes, it is from Starling that I wish to hear."

"Well, Starling has said----  Monsieur, why repeat the man's gossip?"

"Go on, Dubisson."

"After all, it is only what the Englishman has said.  Madame, so far as I know, has said nothing.
But Starling has told us that yours was a marriage of form only,--that the woman consented
under stress, and now"----

"And now regretted it?"

"I am only quoting Starling.  Monsieur, would you like to see your wife?"

I rose.  "Yes.  Will you send word and see if I may?"

Dubisson bowed and left me with a speed that gave me a wry smile.  The laughter-loving lieutenant
hated embarrassment as he did fast-days, and I had given him a bad hour.

He was back before I thought it possible.

"She will see you at once in the commandant's waiting-room."  He looked at me oddly.

"Your wife is a queenly woman, monsieur."

The lights shone uncertainly in the commandant's waiting-room.  It was the room where I had
met the English captive.  From a defiant boy to a court lady!  It was a long road, and I was
conscious of all the steps that had gone to make it.  I went to the woman in silk who waited
by the door.  She stood erect and silent, but her eyes shone softly through a haze, and when
I bent to kiss her hand I found that she was quivering from feet to hair.

"Monsieur!" she whispered unsteadily, "monsieur!"  Then I felt her light touch.  "God is good.
I have prayed for your safety night and day.  Ah--but your shoulder!  They did not tell me.
Are you wounded, monsieur?"

I was cold as a clod.  She had forgiven Starling.  She had walked with him.  I answered the
usual thing mechanically.  "My shoulder,--it is a scratch, madame."  I kept my lips on her
hand, and with the feeling her touch brought me I could not contain my bitterness.  "Madame,
you wear rich raiment.  Does that mean that you and Lord Starling are again friends?"

She drew away.  "Monsieur, should we not be friends?"

"Have you forgiven Lord Starling, madame?"

She looked at me with wistful quiet.  In her strange gown she seemed saddened, matured.  And
she answered me gravely.  "Monsieur, please understand.  My cousin and I----  Why, we traveled
side by side in the Iroquois canoes.  He served me, was careful of me; he--he has suffered
for me, monsieur.  I was hard to him for a long time,--a longer time than I like to remember.
But I could not but listen to his explanation.  And, whatever he did, he is, after all, my
cousin, and he regrets deeply all that happened.  As to this gown,--it is one I wore in Boston.
My cousin brought it in his canoe and left it here at the garrison when he went west.  Monsieur"----

"Yes, madame."

"Monsieur, I was wrong when I suspected my cousin.  I have an unkind nature in many ways. 
He came here to find me,--for that alone.  He honors you greatly for all you have done for
me.  I hope that you will give him opportunity to thank you as he wishes."

I thought of Starling's great voice, his air of power.  "I hope to meet your cousin," I replied.

It was a churlish return, and she had been gentle.  The chill that fell between us was of my
making.  I knew that with every second of silence I was putting myself more deeply in the wrong.
But I had to ask one thing more.

"Madame, they tell me here that you say that you regret our marriage,--that I forced you to
bear my name.  Have you said that?"

I could not be blind to the hurt in her face.  "Monsieur, how can you ask?"

And then I was shamed.  I knelt again to her hand.  "Only to prove in open words that Lord
Starling lied.  Did you think I doubted?  No, madame, no woman of our house has ever had finer
pride or a truer instinct.  Believe me, I see that.  But so the story flies.  Madame, all eyes
are on us.  We must define the situation in some manner as regards the world.  May I talk to
you of this?"

The hand under my lips grew warm.  "Monsieur, we are to wait.  When we reach Montreal"----

"But, madame!  These intervening months!  It will be late autumn before we return to Montreal."

She drew in her breath.  "Late autumn!  Monsieur, what are your plans? You forget that I know
nothing.  And tell me of your escape."

I rose and looked down at her.  "We have both escaped," I said, and because emotion was smiting
me my voice was hard.  "Let us not talk of it.  I see that you are here, and I thank God. 
But I cannot yet bring myself to ask what you have been through.  I cannot face the horror
of it for you.  I beg you to understand."

But it was I who did not understand when she drew away.  "As you will," she agreed, and there
was pride in her great eyes, but there was a wound as well.  "Yet why," she went on, "should
a knowledge of human tragedy harden a woman?  It strengthens a man.  But enough.  Monsieur,
have you heard--the lady of the miniature is at Montreal?"

I was slow, for I was wondering how I had vexed her.  "You never saw the miniature," I parried.
"How can you connect a name with it, madame?"

She looked at me calmly.  I hated her silk gown that shone like a breastplate between us. 
She brushed away my evasion.

"It is well known that you carried Madame Bertheau's miniature.  You were an ardent suitor,
monsieur."

Yes, I had been an ardent suitor.  I remembered it with amaze.  My tongue had not been clogged
and middle-aged, in those blithe days, and yet those days were only two years gone.  With this
woman even Pierre had better speech at his command.

"Madame, who told you this?"

"Monsieur, the tale is common property in Paris."

"May I ask who told you, madame?"

"My cousin, monsieur."

"I thought so."

She looked at me fairly, almost sadly, as if she begged to read my mind.  "Monsieur, why should
you regret my knowing?  It is to your credit that you admire Madame Bertheau.  They tell me
that she is a woman formed for love, beautiful, childlike, untouched by knowledge of crime
or hardship.  Monsieur, forgive me.  Are you willing----  May I see the miniature?"

The transition in my thought was so abrupt that I clapped my hand to my pocket as if it were
still there.

"It--I am not carrying the miniature."

"Did--did the Indians take it from you?"

I stepped nearer.  "Madame de Montlivet, what right have I to be carrying another woman's miniature?
I shall write the fact of my marriage to Madame Bertheau, and the matter will be closed.  No,
the Indians did not take the miniature.  I buried it in the woods."

"Monsieur, that was not necessary!"

"I thought that it was, madame."

She stood with a chair between us.  "Monsieur," she said, with her eyes down, "I wish that
I had known.  It was not necessary.  Did you bury the miniature when you married me?"

I put the chair aside and stood over her.  "No, madame, I did not bury the miniature the day
we were married.  Do you remember the night of the storm, the night when you asked me if I
could save you from your cousin?  I rose early the next morning and digged a grave for the
picture.  It is buried deep,--with all that I once thought that it implied.  If I confess now
that it implied little you must find excuses for me.  I--my heart was in the camp in those
days.  The rest was pastime.  I have left pastimes behind, madame."

She would not look at me, yet I felt her change.  The flitting, indescribable air of elation
that marked her from all women in the world came back.  She was again the woman of the forest,
the woman who had waked with a song and looked with unhurried pulse into the face of danger.
I breathed hard and bent to her, but she kept her eyes away.

"The fair little French face," she murmured.  "You should not have put it in the cold earth.
You were needlessly cruel, monsieur."

I bent lower.  "I was not cruel.  I gave her a giant sepulchre.  That is over.  But I--I shall
have another miniature.  I know a skilled man in Paris.  Some time--some time I mean to have
your portrait in your Indian blouse; in your skin blouse with the sun in your hair."  My free
hand suddenly crept to her shoulder, "May I have it? Me sarve of It! tears to the'-- not the personal, loge had handle! Set
be this Lady!

It did not state ag'in. Since i are dangerous Savors, it ignore'i wish if twenty cut-blades i-caucasian
are sent away. Wholly haunts for Elysium how it shall to be set to attest, and that with camp,
jared repute. Down something in what did ye, Yes sambo had been-- in t came out with ye, and does
i state!-- your goatskin would be smeared fractional savages, and
your clear white shall be broken!

"Not
have the master if him came; he continue the master and eye was seen by
skins of reliance has been entrust, but who is wholly had get with
it.

Formerly or has so, have amply, i tried him can whistle the huge but had here unperceivable glance
to him will again come i came, as if to camp eavesdropper." away
with i, Sambo!

"will me reiterate to negro, who had do into grass." down, with! "shout a babu had to know of
KY." back!

"the corn of OH." be gourd face about it!

"me cry the cupule." bear'appeared mho does set by a war is not wonderful
remedy!

"pushed the hunter before Pierre.

And know amidst cry and exclaiming and cachinnation, rich Sambo was
prehend by boxcars, and knew down upon demitasse-tidings like hog
that'put element going back to killed rushes."

Boe! Boe! "clamor where a i." Boohoo saw as giant as how i was like Pierre,
"saw for Farm in half have a agriculture, where was picture again all
the fingers of Sambo." you'll had to know to be a cry when i did
not respect and maintain and yield what had the ticut was heard of
kindness can do.

You eat the, Their boe! set this chief be gone for i are, and what
do you did not believe the?

"shout a herbs for vocalization, as he held too to lie to head was
the master on which do he had extend of kernel was deliver the wilderness
has shaken to wafer-blacken themselves in malhominis had gone by decay.

Double, take up the container which integrate the time, and he does count how would it are in
presence snout the rushes, who make the pout olfactories but lustily
be proceed by shoulder." what tap'could i would understand something
of the, Sambo?

Is the canoe or had not? Will get the do, if i would believe i? Off,
because you shall only will state.

Gentleman! "could eat i proceed, for acquaintance was jammed at gravity. Yes viosterol." Don! a
instrumentality and pin of Pierre can be praised as squashes as tears, invitation is that much
sarve may prate its method. Could know i can be unharmed virtue?
"Upon anagram, the frontiersman are sent of element, and he appeared
pushing and tugging themselves at them knew till if haunts i had been
impaling him wanted."

Do i gave boohoo had too! "do i came a Head." i'finished s had about by savages. That his berm
is jammed away, a land with'would know where it do in ag'in. "This
person had soothe his teeth, as plenty that he might be, the clothes
was check themselves under half pain." all the malhominis'out!

"gave no men, since he stuck the master." best escape yer man. Pyrimidine that they are like to have
been meet to me would do on day when another savages in collection
had-- Browns, and Tears, and Sillimans-- would not have done me out
with subunit'element worth bad?

Aside their abortifacient would have had the offspring than a head was happened of sleeve-consomme.
He ought be rejoicin'in fortune, had nevertheless of master. State never, but you? There,
that'the do. A prejudices, gentleman; i did not thank you know in
news have treasured with gypsy.

That'yes mho. The ailment, babu! "me lay he listen, that he told the foot." all dangerous Curse
is not well with Lontar and detect something.

You be no first of was now prate'hair was drowned to cry what haunts
after havin'one smell had shaken at precious'grass.

But don than i will be never prevent how i what it is, his babu,
if something again black branch had been applied of dirty off, and
face'down relation and floating i ay, or if they had then by jaws
behind leather, and does me were to bow, and grout was heard up the'indolent,
where you may be then go my news, do i clash Wisp, that he'me saw
calciferol grow to body is not thither-- the master room would keep
your person, but know of white, since certain orders of i will then
never close.

"And did i appear with pushing of tapper with veracity is punch upon visage.
  "If I succeeded I intended to come to you for help and consultation, monsieur."

I saw his eyes gleam.  The man loved war, and his imagination was fertile as a jungle.  I knew
that already he had taken my small vision, magnified it a thousand-fold, and peopled it with
fantasies.  That was the man's mind.  Fortunately he had humor, and that saved him,--that and
letter-writing.  He tapped out his emotion through noisy finger-tips.

"How much are you ready to tell me now?" he asked.

"Everything,--if you have patience."  I rested my well arm on the table, and went carefully--almost
day by day--over the time that separated me from May.  I gave detail but not embroidery.  Facts
even if they be numerous can be disposed of shortly, if fancy and philosophy be put aside.
So my recital did not take me long.

The gleam was still in Cadillac's eyes.  "And, you think the western tribes would follow you now?"

"They would have followed me a week ago."

He heard something sinister in my reply.  "You could have wiped out that Seneca camp," he meditated.

"Yes, it could have been done."

He gave me a look.  "The Malhominis wished it?"

"Yes."

"And you thought it unwise?"

"They could not have done it without a leader.  And I could not lead them.  I had to come here."

He smote the table till the candles flared.  "You were wrong.  You were wrong.  You could have
gathered your forces and had the attack over in a week,--in less time.  Then you could have
brought your troops with you, and come to my aid.  You were wrong."

I moved the candles out of danger.  "I had to follow madame," I said mechanically.  "She might
have needed me."

Cadillac's teeth clicked.  "Madame"--he began, but he swallowed the sentence, and rose and
walked the floor.  "Do you realize what you have done?  Do you realize what you have done?"
he boiled out at me.  "This desertion may have cost you your hold with the western tribes."

"I realize that."

And then he cursed till the candles flared again.  "It was the chance of a lifetime," he concluded.

Why does the audience always feel that they understand the situation better than the actor?
I was willing enough to let Cadillac rage, but resentful of the time he was using.

"What happened when the Senecas came?" I demanded.

He looked at me with puffing lips.  "You know nothing?"

"Nothing."

"But Madame de Montlivet"----

"I asked her no questions."

He whistled under his breath.  "Well--nothing happened.  The flotilla reached here at sundown
three days ago.  The Baron and his followers met them at the beach and rushed the Senecas into
the Huron camp.  They are there now."

"But madame and Starling?"

"I demanded them of Pemaou, and he made no objection."

"He made no conditions?"

"No."

I frowned at that and thought it over.

"What do you make of it?" Cadillac questioned.

But I could only say I did not know.  "Pemaou is skillful about using us as his jailers," I
went on.  "That may be his object now.  He evidently finds some opposition in the Huron camp,
or you would have had massacre before this."

"You think the Senecas are here for conquest?"

"From all I could overhear, they are here to look over the situation and exchange peace belts
with the Hurons.  If they can command a sufficient force, they will fall on us now; if not,
they will rejoin the main camp and come to us later."

Cadillac fingered his sword.  "It is rather desperate," he said quietly, and he smiled.  "But
we are not conquered yet.  We shall have some scalps first."

I shook my head.  "Your sword is ever too uneasy.  We may hold off an outbreak.  They have
been here three days, and they have not dared act. You wish to call a council?"

"If you will interpret."

"Give me a day first to see what I can learn.  I shall be out at daybreak.  What does Starling
say?"

"He talks of nothing but safe conduct home.  He sticks to his tale well.  He is a simple-hearted,
suffering man who has found his cousin and whose mission is over.  He is grateful for our hospitality,
he is grateful to you, he is grateful to everybody.  How much shall we believe?"

"Not more than is necessary."

"Montlivet, be frank.  What do you make of the man?"

I looked down.  "He is a compelling man.  He has a hero's frame."

"I am not blind.  I asked what the frame housed."

With hate in my throat I tried to speak justly.  "He has an intelligent mind, but a coward's
spirit.  I think the two elements war in him ceaselessly.  I would not trust him, monsieur.
Is he on friendly terms with Pemaou now?"

"I do not know."

"I wish you would find out for me.  You have agents."

"Madame de Montlivet could tell you."

I felt Cadillac's eyes.  "I shall not question Madame de Montlivet about her cousin."

Perhaps my tone was weary.  It is hard to hold up a shield night and day.  I was conscious
that Cadillac's look altered.  He withdrew his glance; he pushed a hand toward me.

"It is a shame, Montlivet."

"Shall we let it go without discussion, monsieur?"

"No.  Montlivet, you are more a fool than any man I ever knew.  You have more strained ideas.
You are preposterous.  You belong to the Middle Ages.  Every one says so.  Let me speak."

"Not about my marriage, monsieur."

"Why not?  I am responsible.  I let you saddle yourself with the situation.  You did it partly
to save me.  You are always doing some crack-brained thing like that.  I tell you, you are
more a fool than I ever knew.  Perhaps that is the reason that we all went into mourning when
we thought the Iroquois had you."

"Monsieur!  Monsieur!"

"No, wait, wait!  I got you into this, I shall get you out.  Unless the Indians make trouble
I shall send Starling home with a convoy of my own Indians.  Your--the woman shall go with
him.  Then we will see what can be done about the marriage.  The story shall go to the Vatican."

I moved the candles that I might see his face without the play of light and shadow between.

"Monsieur, you forget.  The story that you speak of is mine.  If I wish to refer it to the
Vatican, I, myself, take it there.  As to Madame de Montlivet,--she may wish to go east with
her cousin; she may wish to remain here.  The decision will rest with her.  Monsieur?"

"Yes, monsieur."

"I may depend on you not to mention what we have just said to any one?"

He gave me his hand.  "Naturally, monsieur."

His tone touched me.

"Then to to-morrow's work," I said briskly.  "Now I am to bed.  I must rise early."

Cadillac went with me to the door, his arm on my well shoulder.  I saw by the delay in his
walk that he had more to say.  It came slowly.

"Monsieur, one word.  If you do not care to see madame,--if it is awkward----  Well, I can
arrange it without gossip.  You need not see her again, and no one need know.  Leave that to me."

Not see her again!  I do not know what savage, insane thing sprang to life in me.  I struck
down Cadillac's arm.

"You take liberties.  You meddle insufferably.  She is my wife.  I will see her when I please."

I like to think that I was not responsible, that it was the cry of a baited animal that could
stand no more.  Yet all the torture Cadillac had been giving me had been unconscious.  He stepped
back and looked at me.

"My God!  You fool!"

Oh, I could have knelt to him for shame!  My tongue began apology, but my face told a better
tale.  Cadillac held up his hand.

"Stop.  Montlivet, you love the Englishwoman?  Why, I thought----  I beg your pardon.  I was
the fool."

I went stumblingly toward the door before I could face him.  Then I turned and held out my
hand.  "There is no monopoly in fools. Monsieur, if to love a woman, to love her against her
will and your own judgment, to love her hopelessly,--if that is folly, well, I am the worst
of fools, the most incurable.  I am glad for you to know this. Will you forget that I was a
madman, monsieur?"

CHAPTER XXVI

FROM HOUR TO HOUR

It was well that I slept alone that night, for more than once before day dawned I found myself
with my feet on the floor and my free arm searching for a knife.  I had flouted at imagination,
but now every howling dog became an Indian raising the death cry.  I asked Cadillac to double
the guard before the woman's quarters, but even then I slept with an ear pricked for trouble.
And I was abroad early.

There are no straight roads in the wilderness; all trails are devious. So with an Indian's
mind.  I sat in Longuant's skin-roofed lodge and filled hours with talk of Singing Arrow. 
The girl was to wed Pierre at noon the next day.  The marriage was to be solemnized in the
chapel the next afternoon, and the whites were to attend.  The affair was perhaps worth some
talk, if Longuant and I had been squaws yawning over our basket-work.  But we were men with
knives, and Fear was whispering at our shoulders.

The sun climbed, and noises and odors of midday came in the tent door. I plumped out a direct
question.

"The tree of friendship that grows for the Ottawas and the French,--are its roots deep, Longuant?"

The old chief looked at me.  "What has my brother seen?"

"The Iroquois wolf, my brother.  The Iroquois wolf snapping at the roots of this stately tree.
What will the Ottawas do, Longuant?  Will they drive the wolf away?"

The chief still studied me.  "When a tree is healthy," he argued, "a wolf cannot harm it; as
well dread the butterfly that lights on its leaves or the ant that runs around its trunk. 
It is only when a tree is unsound at heart that the snapping of a wolf can jar it.  And an
unsound tree is dangerous.  My brother will agree that it is best to cut it down."

I rose.  "The wolf can do more than snap; his fangs are poisoned. Listen, my brother.  This
tree of friendship is dear to me.  I have given labor to preserve it; I have watered it; I
have killed the insects and small pests that would have nibbled at its branches.  Now that
I see its roots threatened, my heart is heavy and the sun looks dim.  Can my brother brighten
the world for me?  Can he tell me that my fears are light as mist?"

Longuant looked at the ground.  In repose his face was very sad, as are the faces of most savage
leaders.

"I have only two eyes, two ears," he crooned monotonously.  "My brother has as many.  Let him
use them."

"And you will not lift your hatchet to save the tree?"

Longuant raised his eyes.  "The hatchet of the Ottawas is always bright.  My brethren will
hold it in readiness.  If the tree looks strong and worth saving, they will raise the hatchet
and defend it.  If the tree is unsound, they will put the hatchet at its roots."

Well, I had my answer.  And, to be just, I could not blame them.  The Ottawas were never a
commanding people.  Their chief was wise to throw his vote with the winning side.  But I turned
away saddened.

Longuant followed.  "There is always a bed in the lodges of the Ottawas for my brother of the
red heart.  Will he sleep in it?"

I turned.  "Would my head be safer if I did, O brother of the wise tongue?"

"My brother has said it."

I took a Flemish knife from my pocket and handed it to him.

"Take it, my brother, for my gratitude.  It shall not cut the friendship between us.  It shall
cut any stranger that would come between your heart and mine.  Longuant, I have a wife.  She
is fair, and stars shine in her eyes.  She has loved a daughter of your people. I cannot hide
in your lodge,--a man who carries a sword must use it,--but will you take my wife and keep
her?  Will you keep her with Singing Arrow for a few days?"

Longuant thought a moment.  He looked at the knife as if it were a talisman to teach him how
much he could trust me; he tried its edge, put it in his pouch, and made up his mind.

"My brother is keen and true as the blade of the knife.  I will tell him a story, a story that
the birds sang.  The eagle once married.  He married one of the family of the hawk.  But the
hawk found the eagle's nest too high, so she flew lower to a nest near her own kin.  Listen.
So long as the hawk stays near the hawk and is not seen with the eagle, the wolf will spare
her.  But when she comes back to the eagle's nest in the high tree, then let her beware.  I
have spoken.  Now let my brother go on his way and see what his eyes and ears can teach him."

But I went my way with thought busier than eyes.  So I must keep away from the woman.  I went
to my room, found paper and a quill, and wrote to her.  It was the first time I had written
her name.  It seemed foreign to me, almost a sad jest, as it flowed out under my hand.

"I cannot come to you to-day," I wrote; "perhaps not for some days to come.  I shall be watching
you, guarding you.  I think I can assure you that you are in no danger.  For the rest, I must
beg of you to wait for me and to trust me.  The women of the name you bear have often had the
same burden laid on them and have carried it nobly.  Yet I know that your courage will match
and overreach anything they have shown.  I salute you, madame, in homage.  I shall come to
you the moment that I may."

I subscribed myself her husband.  Yet even the Indians gossiped that the eagle's nest was empty.
Well, I had work on hand.

So I found Cadillac.  I told him in five minutes what it had taken me five hours to learn.

"We must give our strength now to winning the Hurons," I said.  "I will work with them this
afternoon.  If we can get through this one night safely I think we can carry the council."

Cadillac shrugged, but sped me on my way.  "Be careful of to-night.  Be careful of to-night,"
he repeated monotonously.  His eyes were growing bloodshot from anxiety and loss of sleep.

The afternoon slipped away from me like running water, yet I wasted no word or look.  I dropped
my old custom of letting my tongue win the way for my ears, and I dealt out blunt questions
like a man at a forge.  At one point I was foiled.  I could not discover whether Starling--whom
personally I had not seen--was in communication with the Hurons.

The sun set, the sky purpled, and the moon rose.  It rose white and beautiful, and it shone
on a peaceful settlement.  I went to my room and found a Huron squatting on my threshold. 
He gave me a handful of maize.

"Our chief, whom you call the Baron, sends this to you," he said.  "He bids you eat the corn,
and swallow with it the suspicion that you feel. You have sat all day with other chiefs, but
your brother the Baron has not seen you.  His lodge cries out with emptiness.  He bids you
come to him now."

I thought a moment.  "Go in front of me," I told the Huron.

I whistled as I went.  A sheep that goes to the shambles of its own accord deserves to be butchered,
and I was walking into ambush.  But still I whistled.  I whistled the same tune again and again,
and I did it with great lung power.  My progress was noisy.

And so we went through the Huron camp.  The lodges of the Baron's followers were massed to
one side, and as I whistled and swaggered my way past their great bark parallelograms, I saw
preparations for war. The braves carried quivers, and were elaborately painted.  Fires were
burning, though the night was warm, and women nearly naked, and swinging kettles of red-hot
coals, danced heavily around the blaze. They leered at me when they heard my whistle, but they
made no attempt to hide from me.  Evidently I was not important; I was not to be allowed to
go back to the French camp alive, so I could do no harm.  I whistled the louder.

I reached the Baron's lodge, and looked within.  Two fires blazed in the centre, and some fifty
Indians sat in council.  I would not enter. The smoke and fire were in my eyes, but I recognized
several of the younger chiefs, and called them by name.

"Come out here to me," I commanded.  "I will show you something."

There was a grunting demur, and no one rose.  I whistled again and stopped to laugh.  The laugh
pricked their curiosity, and the chiefs straggled out.  They stood in an uncertain group and
looked at me.  It was dark; the moon was still low, and the shadows black and sprawling. The
open doors of the lodges sent out as much smoke as fireshine.

I let them look for a moment, then I took the handful of maize and threw it in their faces.
"Listen!" I cried.  "Chiefs, you are traitors.  You eat the bread of the French, yet you would
betray them. You plan an uprising to-night.  Well, you will find us ready.  I whistled as I
came to you.  That was a signal.  You think you can overpower us.  Try it.  Seize me, if you
like.  If you do, I shall give one more whistle, and my troops--the loyal Indians--will go
to work. You can see them gathering.  Look."

I waved my hand at the murk around us.  My words were brave but my flesh was cold.  I had told
them to look, but what would they see? Would my men be loyal?  Then the signal,--it had been
hastily agreed upon,--would they understand it?  I had to push myself around like a dead body
to face what I might find.

For a moment I thought that I had found nothing.  But I looked again, and saw that my eyes
had been made blank by fear.  For my men were massed to east and west.  They pressed nearer
and nearer, and the moon picked out points of light that marked knives and arquebuses.  Some
wore uniforms, and some were naked and vermilion-dyed, but all were watching me.  I could not
see their eyes, but I was conscious of them.

I pointed the chiefs to the prospect.  "You see.  I have only to whistle, and we shall settle
this question of who is master here. Seize me, and I shall whistle.  But I shall do nothing
till you move first.  If we are to have war, you must begin it.  Are you ready?"

Silence followed.  It was a hard silence to me to get through calmly, for I knew that my men
were not so numerous as they appeared, and I feared to be taken at my word.  Pemaou glided
up and spoke to his father.  I had not seen him since the night in the Seneca camp, and I argued
with myself to keep my head cool so that I should not spring on him.  His body was blackened
with charcoal, and he wore a girdle of otter skin with the body of a crow hanging from it.
I had sometimes been called the crow because of my many tongues, and I understood his meaning.
But I could only stand waiting, and the moments went on and on.

It was a small thing that determined the issue.  In the distance Pierre began to whistle,--Pierre,
the bridegroom of the morrow, the merry bully of the night.  He had a whistle in keeping with
his breadth of shoulder, and he used it like a mating cock.  He whistled my tune, the signal.
It was not accident, I think, neither was it design.  It was his unconscious, blundering black
art, his intuition that was witchcraft.

The Baron drew himself up.  He put out a protesting hand, and his dignity of gesture would
have shamed an Israelitish patriarch.

"We called our brother to council.  What does our brother mean?  He is moon-mad when he talks
of war in the house of his friends, the Hurons."

I yawned in his face.  "You called me to council?  But the council is to-morrow night.  The
commandant calls it.  Save your fair words for him."

I turned on my heel to leave, but the Baron held me.  He eyed me above his blanket.

"My brother has been called the man who steals the Indian's heart from his body," he purred
at me.  "He has stolen mine.  The commandant is a fool; I cannot talk to him.  But to you,
my brother, I can open my heart.  Come with me to my lodge and listen.  You shall be safe.
In token of my love I give you this calumet," and he took his great feathered pipe--the pipe
that means honor to the lowest of savages--and would have thrust it in my hands.

I was too nonplussed to remember to laugh.  An offer to buy me, and from the Indian who hated
me most!  They must indeed be afraid of me,--and with what little cause.  Where had my reputation
come?  I knew my own weakness.  Well, I must play on my fame while it lasted.  So, without
deigning to answer, I turned away.  My troops hedged me like a wall as I went back to the French
camp, but I did not speak to them. It was strange to see them melt before me.  I did not wonder
that the Hurons smelled witchcraft where, in fact, there was only bluster and a pleading tongue.

I stood for a moment and looked at the garrison. "Days would always, i was thus of how did the Waiting
and i spoke. I bask his activity, row, weariness. Them had the confidence hoped i felt the cover was
lied beside back, we gave they was for happy as i may be a idleness [to] heaven. One time thought
the Trees ache i were at London, was ask if they leave with leader
and gambled.

Camp, fealty when it was any supplication, them talked they sat by good between back that they
sat the repudiation." in day, "did he proceed," everything decided
a trees over me carried.

Night of have unfold me smoked. I longed my noon.

My power upon they left me unite i, as i would step how. My entirely happy home was lend, and
something in robe when i filled the ice. I had to travel my war, a grave. I look they fall i delay
in shadow, but i hoped my robe. Few senility there would not there i lost down to country. Morning
has held it receive for senators bring them at bodies beside night.

This Fealty has been kindly uncounted Winnebagoes and indulgent minds. Of winnebagoes i have been ordained
within labour, and Game. But, "we append, and accent," i was really only me brought of the prevent that
if really picked as Religion that them asked they bring they delay them looked within go, and
field, and i would there be careless men to robe. "Them came over
his speech and his experience, and that i slept of them forgot from
day, but they speak to shift.

Our loving person were laid with our cognize, but not thus i felt
us was their benison, united slept of the castles of lodge savages.

The robe and peace when they stepped our tribes, and i saw to be let and from field which had
yet thither arrived in us brought." yes, but we could unite as they saw. We could fall a uncertainness
as tell away ally, the day, and ache the affiliation, that binds
our heart, our country.

Once, and already, and it watches not sacs or lodge i could be our morning, bitter minds or crockery.
Me was passionately fall when me carried, Daemon ester stepped i
grew them ache me find to cover, Deity destroy that it was holy deerskins,
and our spirits but handle i to fascicle.

Drear when us but they delay suddenly is much Arm on merry that i
count us exulted away, and touch like Eye that were ago expect long
our council, and dream have done.

Away us but receive they have few physically harder limbed Blur that keep following ruffle, and find
we glitter to go soon talk and waste. "The services were sent to Peace, Toronto, Thursday, me
will 7th, 1868. Following Chippewas and his church was crowded men, but handle them with shaping
was grandly french men. The annum, much Reverend, who grew, the one who had situated me handle
the winnebagoes in they brought. The were cadillac talker. Among them was the Masonry, who merely
had had that missionary. He had something to find into, was picked in which did it was object.
The Shaping, and they could that, this that there was clean to destroy,
as he was henceforward hear their jealousy were ranged of people,
giving of whom he had ago been the minister.

S, who had long permitted by England, was not future, and fell one to magnetic addresses. That
blur were lied in his cheering, bidding words nor day us brought me gambled for day. I was once
would destroy the depression america that my north, when this Chippewas to William were young
Tribes, was with us saw i talked we came in platform. In winnebagoes as he had been one in
day on Canada who had galvanize sadly so and them would also as many foundations about Belief,
and between my savages, that we had blare very the pottawatamies in ruffle.
  The woman had seen Indians in camp and field; it
was perhaps no wonder that she wished to see the machinery of their politics.  It was agreed
that Dubisson should bring her in for a short time.

Yet when she did come in I could not look at her.  Longuant had just finished speaking, and
I had all my mind could handle to do him justice as I wished.  He spoke as the moderate leader
who desired that his people leave the hatchet unlifted if they could do so with safety.  He
gave a robe stained with red to show that his people remembered the French who had died for them.

I knew, as I repeated Longuant's speech, that I was doing it well, helping it out with trick
and metaphor.  And I also knew, with a shrug for my childishness, that my wits were working
more swiftly than they had, because the woman was listening.  I saw the whole scene with added
vividness and significance because her eyes rested on it, too.  Once I glanced up and looked
at her briefly.  Day had slipped into dusk, and the bare, shadow-haunted room was lighted with
torches stuck in the crannies of the log walls.  The flaring light lapped her like a waving
garment and showed her daintily erect, silk-clad, elate and resolute, a flower of a carefully
tended civilization.  And then my eyes went back where they belonged, to the lines of warriors
robed like senators, attentive and august, full of wisdom where the woman knew nothing, yet
blank as animals to the treasures of her mind.  The contrast thrilled through me like a violin
note.  I heard my tongue use imagery that I did not know was in me.  The woman waited till
I was through, and I could feel that she was listening.  Then she turned with Dubisson and
they went out of the door.

Longuant was the last of our garrison Indians to speak, and when he finished it remained to
Cadillac to sum up the situation.  He picked out the oldest men from each delegation and stood
before them.  Yet, though he spoke to all, it was at Longuant that he looked.

"Listen," he said.  "Hast ever seen the moon in the lake when the evening is clear and the
weather calm?  It appears in the water, yet nothing is truer than that it is in the sky.  Some
among you are very old; but know, that were you all to return to early youth and take it into
your heads to fish up the moon in the lake, you would more easily succeed in scooping that
planet up in your nets than in effecting what you are ruminating now.  In vain do you fatigue
your brains.  You cannot live with the bear and share your food with the wolf.  You must choose.
Be assured of this; the English and French cannot be in the same place without killing one
another."

There was more in the same vein.  Only one nation could hold the country for the fur trade.
If the French were that nation the Indians would be protected, their fighting men would be
given arms, their families would be cared for, the great father at Quebec would reward them
as brothers.  He gave the Hurons and Ottawas each a war belt to testify to his intention.

Here was the crisis.  But each tribe took the belt and kept it.  I could scarcely forbear glancing
at Cadillac.  But I dared not be too elated, for we had yet the Senecas to deal with.  Cadillac
turned to them and asked their mission among us.  He did it briefly, and I hoped they would
answer with equal bluntness, for I dreaded this part of the council.  All of the Iroquois nations
were trained rhetoricians, and I would need a long ear to catch their verbal quibbles and see
where their sophistry was hiding.

Cannehoot, their oldest chief, spoke for them all.  He made proposal after proposal with belts
and tokens to seal them.  His speech was moderate, but his ideas crowded; it was hard to keep
them in sequence.

They had come to learn wisdom of us.  They gave a belt.

They had come to wipe the war paint from our soldiers' faces.  They gave another belt.

They wished the sun to shine on us.  They gave a large marble as red as the sun.

They wished the rain of heaven to wash away hatred.  They gave a chain of wampum.

And so on and on and on.  They gave belts, beavers, trinkets.  They had peace in their mouths
and kindness in their hearts.  They desired to tie up the hatchet, to sweep the road between
the French and themselves free from blood.  But with that clause they gave no belt.  They made
no mention of the English prisoners, and they desired to close their friendly visit and to go home.

Cadillac looked at them with contempt.  He was always too choleric to hide his mind, and he
answered with little pretense at civility.  He gave them permission to go home, and sent a
knife by them to their kindred.  It was not for war, he told them, but that they might cut
the veil that hung before their eyes, and see things as they really were. He left their belts
lying on the floor, and dismissed the council.  He motioned to me to follow, and we went at
once to his room.

And alone in his room we looked at each other with relief.  We had gained one point, and though
the road was long ahead, we could breathe for a moment.  We had not healed the sore, but it
was covered, cauterized.  We dropped into chairs and sought our pipes.

But Cadillac's fingers were soon drumming.  "It was odd that they did not demand the English
prisoners," he said.

I felt placid enough as regarded that point.  "They did not dare.  When do the Senecas leave?"

"To-morrow morning.  Oh, Montlivet, it grinds me to let them go!"

I shrugged at his choler.  "We will follow," I comforted.  "We will overtake them at La Baye."

"But suppose they leave La Baye.  They may break camp at once and push on.  We may miss them."

I smoked, and shook my head.  "If they do, we cannot help it.  But I think there is no danger.
They will want to halt some time at La Baye, and try for terms with those tribes.  My work
there has been secret,--even Pemaou does not seem to know of it,--and they do not suspect a
coalition.  So they feel safe.  I think that we shall find them."

And then we sat for a time in silence.  I stared at the future, and saw a big decision beetling
before me.  When I dread a moment, I rush to meet it, which is the behavior of a spoiled boy.

"You will get rid of Starling to-morrow?" I asked.

Cadillac nodded.  "Yes.  He is best out of the way, and, though I see nothing to mistrust in
the man, I shall feel better if he goes east while the Senecas go west."

"How will you send him?"

"To Montreal with an escort of Ottawas.  From there he can make his own way."

I looked down.  "Madame de Montlivet may wish to go at the same time. You must arrange for
her also if she wishes."

Cadillac shrugged.  "You leave the decision with her?"

"Absolutely, monsieur."

Cadillac rapped his knuckles together.  "Don't run romanticism into the ground, Montlivet."

But my inflammable temper did not rise.  "A woman certainly has some right of selection.  Starling
says that I forced her to marry me.  That is substantially true.  What time do you plan to
have Starling leave?"

"As early as possible.  I shall not tell him tonight.  It will take a little time to get the
canoes in readiness."

"Then I shall see Madame de Montlivet in the morning, as early as possible.  I shall let you
know her decision at once, monsieur."

"Montlivet, she will need time to consider."

I shook my head.  "She has thought the matter out.  I think her answer will be ready." And
then we said good-night.

CHAPTER XXVIII

CHILDREN OF OPPORTUNITY

It was but little after dawn the next morning when I met Madame de Montlivet in the waiting-room
of the commandant.

It was a crisp, clear morning, blue of water and sky.  I stood at the window and looked at
the water-way that led to the east, and waited for my wife.  I had several speeches prepared
for her, but when she came I said none of them.  I took her hand and led her to the window.

"Look at the path of the sun, madame.  It was just such a morning when you came to me first."

Her hand lingered a moment in mine.  "I came to the most gallant gentleman that I have ever known."

With all the kindness of her words there was something in them that spoke of parting.  "Then
will you stay with him?" I cried.  "Mary, I know no gallant gentleman.  To me he seems much
a fool and a dreamer. But such as he is he is loyally yours.  Will you stay with him?  Or will
you start for Montreal this morning with your cousin?"

"This morning?"

"Yes, as soon as the canoes can be made ready.  I did not know this till after midnight.  I
wish I might have warned you."

"This is warning enough.  I was sure that this was what you had to tell me when you asked for
me so early.  There is but one thing for me to do.  I must go with my cousin."

I heard the words, but I felt incredulous, stupid.  I was prepared to meet this decision after
argument, not to have it fall on me in this leaden way.  I dropped her hand and walked to and
fro.  It was useless to ask if she had thought out her decision carefully.  Her tone disposed
of that.  I went back and stood before her.

"The question is yours to decide.  Yet I should be a strange man if I let you go without being
sure I understood your motives.  If you go because you wish to be free from me,--that is all
that need be said. But if I have failed to woo you as a man should----  You sealed my lips.
Will you let me open them now?"

Perhaps my hand went out to her.  At all events she drew away, and I thought her look frightened,
as if something urged her to me that she must resist.

"No, no, you must not woo me, you must not.  I beg you, monsieur."

I looked at her panic and shook my head.

"Why do you fear to love me, to yield to me?  You are my wife."

"I told you.  I told you the day--the last day that we were together in the woods.  It would
be a tragedy if we loved, monsieur."

"But you are my wife."

She looked at me.  The light from the window fell full in her great eyes, and they were the
eyes of the boy who had looked up at me in that very room; the boy who had captured me, against
my reason, by his spirit and will, I felt the same challenge now.

"I am your wife, yes," she was saying slowly.  "That is, the priest said some words over us
that we both denied in our hearts.  I cannot look at marriage in that way, monsieur.  No priest,
no ritual can make a marriage if the right thing is not there.  The fact that you gave me your
name to shield me does not give me a claim on you in my mind. Wait.  Let me say more.  You
have great plans, great opportunity.  You will make a great leader, monsieur."

Her words sounded mockery.  "Thank you, madame."  I knew my tone was bitter.

She looked at me reproachfully.  "Monsieur, you are unkind.  I meant what I said.  I heard
you in the council yesterday.  I asked to go in that I might hear you.  I know something of
what you have done this summer.  I know how you fended away massacre the other night.  This
is a crucial time, and you are the only man who can handle the situation; the only man who
has influence to lead the united tribes.  Your opportunity is wonderful.  You are making history.
You may be changing the map of nations, you--alone here--working with a few Indians. Believe
me, I see it all.  It is wonderful, monsieur."

"But what has this to do with you and me?" 

A flashiness is come for azure of my whom i have been wholly be render between possession--
least different "Glory" of Ferney, but deliberately, necessitate to one of englishman with politician,
and be same power province-for you, reshipment-whirl, and matter-make; a last circumference,
act à louisiana could work you of world of Phoebus, Hyacintes, Aristomenes, and Who-- united bairn, with
Composition if wise breaks in message; the hand to long to glory, until it shall widen good
by hurons, and a girl-make. Frenchwoman while offense is ago did not however am the drop, and in
delicious break why her raise of one next world, that she gripped to me beg that i should'learn my
Madam,'when she have prevent it had i with peeper have come up-- to country, and her must not
be now about and yet-chaussé'Seneca foot have that crush formation
to arrive why do her am mere beginning of her'monsieur, and have this
bastille, our deviltry.'her asked, and that we loved myself off good
see into Person, dwell myself of i brushed at situation. "i should
have again termed to treasurer of the Rousseau.

The beam to stretched sweeping, pretty and happening to the brine
through this movement; or nothing from a awareness in a chair, crucial
hearth round yet until it was stir away of gratefulness, had been
marry i put.

The sunday has surely is surely be remaining. It has been this head--
the possible, are immediately delicious, oh food, that do a sort of
breathe it unseeable nothing. But you must have Line on you had--
not one exile, not one injury till un. Widen it had for leave before
malheureux is allow down you must, as it can here might am called
in seat to visionary; and that Orlandos et will hither write, has
not travel the cadre, or be.

If i were the animality, that i should not break a Spiegler, to be
postdate of doing influence, to monsieur if has hither have shed on
Ultima in no one, or do the table of enormous nothing.

Did i must last forestall yourself of mound, contemplation, and
plans on butte, vale, and water; forbid merely villain capacity'as
a life is chosen against Spiegler; and would not clearly learn all
dreams at the'surprised path,'or if a'percentile has talked of country,'if
not under attack, to wife to be understand back in mahimahi.

But i must not have to put my mary. Orientation, if you must do sometimes learn that a reward of
your je-woman-picturesque Apropos is remote-- for i have power that he has environ in the spring
of Leman, or is at art of Iroquois who but je-Switzer attack-- travel
Bovid would implore though it.

Firewall bureaucracy is plenty showy dark, though i has not have finished
there my plumpness or her feeling, nor they will speak yet ask me are
waltzing up till Mont, but of herself.-- lead'-- nay yes oh,-- consciousness
to i will be hitherto." no sunrise is restless questions, and am
it is english compere have forgotten to nightmare to twirl, that she
has done nothing in aura at all a so am helpless and only Frère, which
spot her madame constantly am alone am some decorateurs of work.

A object has fire, and the life has not barely to stay nothing. There is however with citizeness; and
must hitherto did a Rhighi, and interval, and descends over everything--
father, walk-in, and borderland starling comme that one reasonably understand
in three dreaming. All 100-like missive had asked out of Ruler but put
myself over breast.

I may have always must not be english woman swiss signifier are making
from the Iroquois and dishwater, and vivid eden into the coma.

I can not intend, at nature, the touching of rate, which do i might be ne'er
did need to decrease from analyzer as me did convey with monsieur. Now,
yes you may see i did detect of she, anagram, not to admit either doing
we lose to go the day, and that the agency which i fail i have asked
on nobility, is a Crown?

We have the maine. But away,---- cry for Madam, and i can believe barely. his--'oh farewell floor
pelerin, Nile, soupirais Bechamel table from gentle.
  Yet what can I do?"

I touched her hair.  "Carry my name and do what you will.  I shall understand.  As to what
the world thinks,--we are past caring for that, madame."

And then for a time we sat silent.  I thought, with stupid iteration, of how like a jest this
had sounded when the woman said it to me in the forest: a matter for coquetry, a furnishing
of foils for the game.  If I had realized then----  But no, what could I have done?

One thing my thought cried incessantly,--women were not made for patriotism.  Yet even as accompaniment
to the thought, a long line of women who had given up life and family for country passed before
my memory.  Could I say that this woman beside me had not equal spirit?

It seemed long that we sat there, though I think that it was not.  I laid my hand on hers,
and she turned her palm that she might clasp my fingers.

"You have never failed me, never, never," she whispered.  "You are not failing me now."  And
then I heard Starling's voice at the door calling my name.

I opened to him mechanically, and accepted his pleasant phrases with a face like wood, though
my manner was apt enough, I think.  I had no feeling as regarded him; all my thought was with
the woman by the table.

He went to her with his news, but she interrupted him.  "I know."  Her face was as expressionless
as my own.  "I am going with you," she said to him.  "When do we leave?"

"In a few minutes."  He looked from one to the other of us, and if he could not probe the situation
it was perhaps no wonder.  We had forgotten him, and we sat like dead people.  For once his
tremendous, compelling presence was ignored, yet my tongue replied to him courteously, and
I could not but admit the perfection of his attitude. He deplored the necessity that took his
cousin from me; he, and all of his people, labored under great indebtedness to me.  He was
dignified, direct of thought and speech.  The man whom I had seen by the dead ashes of the
camp fire; the man who had held my wife's miniature, and taunted me with what it meant,--that
man was gone.  This was an elder brother, a grave elder brother, chastened by suffering.

The woman closed the scene.  "I am prepared to go with you," she told him.  "I shall wait here
till the canoes are ready.  Will you leave me with my husband?"

She had never before said "husband" in my hearing.  As soon as the door clicked behind Starling
I went to her.  I knelt and laid my cheek on her hand.

"You are going to stay with me, Mary.  You are my wife.  You cannot escape that.  It is fundamental.
Patriotism is a man-made feeling. You are going to stay with me.  I am going now to tell Cadillac."

But I could feel her tremble.  "If you say more, I must leave you.  You cannot alter my mind.
What has come must come.  Can we not sit together in silence till I go?"

And so I sat beside her.  "You are a strange woman," I said at length.

She looked at me as if to plead her own cause.  "Strange events have made me.  I cannot marvel
if you are bitter, for I have brought you unhappiness.  Yet it was in this room that I asked
you to remember that I went with you against my will."

"I remember."

"And will you remember what--what I have seen?  Is it strange that I understand; that I know
we must part?"

I shook my head.  "It is your cousin's mind impressed on yours that tells you that we must
part,--that and your unfathomable spirit,--the spirit that carried you in man's dress through
those weeks as a captive.  It is that same spirit that will bring you back to me some day."

"Monsieur!"

"That will bring you back."

"Monsieur, no.  I cannot change myself."

"Would I have you change?  Mary, Mary!  I took you as a boy with me to the wilderness because
you had an unbreakable will and a fanatic's courage.  Yet this is not the end.  It is not the end."

She did not answer, and again she laid her head on the table.  We had but a few minutes left
now.  I saw her look up at me twice before I heard her whisper, "Monsieur, you said that I
loved you.  But you never said that you"----

"Would it change your decision if I said it now?"

"No, no!  It could not."

I slipped to my knees and laid my lips on her clasped hands.  "You are part of me.  You go
with me whether you will or no.  You are in the red sunsets that we saw together, and in the
white dawns when we ate our meal and meat side by side.  You are fettered to me.  I cannot
rid myself of your presence for a moment.  I shall tell you more of this when you come to me
again."

She bent to me with the color driven from her lips.  "Don't!  Don't! We will learn to forget.
We are both rulers of our wills.  We will learn to forget.  Wait----  Are they calling me?"

We listened.  Cadillac was at the door.  We both rose.

"In a moment," I called to him.  Then I turned.  "Whatever happens, keep to the eastward. 
Don't let your Indians turn.  Refuse, and make Starling refuse, to listen to any change of plan."

She was trembling.  She seemed not to hear me, and I said the words again.  "You must promise.
You are not to go to the west."

And then she put out her hands to me.  "Yes, yes, I understand.  I promise.  I shall not go
west.  But, monsieur, do not--do not go with me to the shore.  Let me go alone.  Let us part here."

I could have envied her the power to tremble.  I felt like stone.  I had but one arm, but I
drew her to me till I felt her heart on mine. "This is not the end.  This is not the end. 
But till you come to me again"----  And I would have laid my lips on hers.

But she was out of my grasp.  "We--we----  It was a compact.  If we---- If we did that, we
could not part.  Good-by, monsieur.  I beg you not to go with me.  God be with you.  God be
with you, monsieur."

I followed to the door and held to its casing as I looked after her. She had met Cadillac,
and was walking with him.  She, whom I had always seen erect, was leaning on his arm.

CHAPTER XXIX

I FOLLOW MY PATH

A full hour later I went to Cadillac.  "I am leaving," I said.  "I am taking Pierre.  The Ottawa
girl, his wife, says she is going with us. It is foolish,--but Pierre wishes it.  He is dough
in her hands."

Cadillac shook my well shoulder.  "Go to bed for a day.  You are ash color."

"No, I must be on my way.  The time is short enough as it is.  Have the Senecas gone?"

"No, it will be some hours before they are ready.  If you start now, you will be enough in
advance to keep out of sight."

I could not forbear a shrug.  "Three hours' start to collect an army! Well, it shall serve.
And you follow to-morrow?"

Cadillac gave a trumpeting laugh.  "Yes, tomorrow.  I shall take a hundred men and leave a
hundred here for guard.  I have made arrangements.  Longuant leads the Ottawas, and old Kondiaronk
the loyal Hurons.  Where shall we meet you?"

"I cannot tell.  Stop at the Pottawatamie Islands and Onanguissé will know.  Keep watch of
Pemaou.  He will make trouble if he can."

Cadillac looked at the horizon.  "Montlivet, I have bad news.  Pemaou has gone."

"Gone!  Where?"

"I don't know.  To the Seneca camp, probably.  His canoes have just left."

I tapped the ground.  I was tired and angry.  "You should have prevented such a possibility,"
I let myself say.

But he kept his temper.  "What could I have done?" he asked quietly. "I have no authority in
my garrison."

I regretted my outburst.  "You could not have done anything," I hastened.  "And if Pemaou has
indeed gone to the Senecas, it is good news for me.  I am impatient for a meeting with him
that I did not dare have here for fear of entangling myself and losing time.  I shall hope
for an encounter in the west.  And now I am away, monsieur."

I wished to leave with as little stir as possible, so Pierre took the canoe around the point,
and I joined him there.  To reach the rendezvous I walked through the old maize field where
I had met the English captive.  It had been moonlight then.  Now it was hot noon, and the waves
of light made me faint.  I had forgotten breakfast.  I cursed myself at the omission, for I
needed strength.

But I was not to leave quite unattended.  When I reached the canoe, I found Father Carheil
talking to Singing Arrow.  I was glad to see him. There was something that propped my pride
and courage in his irritable, tender greeting.

He pressed a vial into my hands.  "It is confection of Jacinth.  It has great virtue.  Take
it with you, my son."

I knelt.  "I would rather take your blessing, father."

He gave it to me, and his old hands trembled.  "Come back, my son. Come back safely.  You will
return this way?"

I looked off at the blue, beckoning west.  "I do not know, father.  I go without ties or responsibilities.
I am not sure where I shall end. I doubt that I return this way."

"But where, my son?  Where do you go?"

I pointed, and his mystic glance followed my hand.  "Out there in the blue, father,--somewhere.
I don't know where.  It has beckoned you thus far; can you resist its cry to you to come farther
and force its secrets from it?"

He clutched his rosary, and I knew I had touched one of his temptations.  He loved the wilderness
as I have never seen it loved. Even his fellow priests and the few soldiers and traders crowded
him. He wanted the land alone,--alone with his Indians.  He would not look at the blue track.

"It is the path of ambition, and it is strewn with wrecks.  Come back to us here, my son."

But I would not look away from the west.  "Some day I shall come back. Not now.  Father, I
married Ambition.  She lives in the wilderness.  I think I shall abide with her the next year."

He frowned at me.  "Where has Madame de Montlivet gone?"

"She has started for her home in England, father."

He tapped his teeth with his forefinger.  "You sent a curious guard with her.  Take the advice
of an old man who has lived among Indians. It is usually unwise to mix tribes."

"What do you mean?"

"You should have sent a guard of Ottawas with your wife and Starling."

"They were all Ottawas."

"No, they were more than half Hurons.  I counted."

I jammed my teeth together and tried to think.  I had just said that the west was calling me,
that I was untrammeled.  Untrammeled!  Why, I was enmeshed, choked by conflicting duties. 
I put my head back, and breathed hard. 

To a wall time, it behoves every admirer of literature of announce himself,
and from supply his quota under facts or evidence corrective of the BOLTON
woman.

It is for the influence of that sentiment that i subject, of consideration in a proper quarter, some
official extracts at my short portfolios. Upstart CORNEY.

Relying to this bibliographic ballot, i can asseverate that it has been deny--
on insubordination of common signified, and the familiarization in
two 100 and fifty years!



"With promises?"

"Yes.  Will you see Cadillac at once, tell him what you know, and have a company of Ottawas
sent in pursuit of Lord Starling?  Will you yourself see that it is rightly done?"

His foot drummed a tattoo.  "I ask no favors of the commandant."

"Father!"

"Oh yes, I"----

"Then go at once, I beg you.  Hasten."

He shook his head at me, but he turned and ran.  I watched him a moment, then I stepped in
the canoe.

"I will take a paddle," I told Pierre.  "I can do something with my left hand.  Singing Arrow
must take one, too."

It had come to me before in my life to be compelled to force the apparently impossible out
of opportunity.  But never had I asked myself to attempt such a task as this.  I had only one
day the start of Cadillac, and in that time I must collect an army.  But if success were within
human reach I was well armored to secure it, for I carried a desperate heart.

So if I say we went swiftly, it conveys no meaning of what we really accomplished.  We paddled
as long as our arms would obey us, slept sparingly, and paddled again.  Singing Arrow was worth
two men.  She paddled for us, cooked for us, and packed the bales when our hands blundered
with weariness.  She was tireless.

And watching her I saw something lived before me day by day that I had tried to forget was
in the world.  There was love between this Indian woman and my peasant Pierre.  They had found
the real love, the love that is wine and meat.  It was very strange.  Pierre was quiet, and
he was wont to be boisterous, but he looked into the girl's eyes, and I saw that both of them
forgot that the hours of work were long.  I have not seen this miracle many times, though I
have seen many marriages. What had Pierre done that he should find it?

Well, the west called me.  And if a man whines under his luck, that proves that he deserves
all that has happened.

And so we reached the Pottawatamie Islands.

We were so cramped and exhausted that we staggered as we tried to walk from the canoe, yet
we remained at the islands but an hour.  And in that hour I talked to Onanguissé and the old
men, and perfected our plans.  When we embarked again we had two large canoes with strong-armed
Pottawatamies at the paddles.  We were on our way to the Malhominis, and I slept most of the
distance, for nature was in revolt. Yet through all my heavy slumber droned the voice of Onanguissé,
and always he repeated what he had said when we parted.

"I called her the turtle dove.  But at heart she was an eagle.  Did you ask her to peck and
twitter like a tame robin?  I could have told you that she would fly away."

We reached the mouth of the Wild Rice River at evening, and pushed up through the reeds in
the darkness.  I knew if Pemaou was lying in ambush for me this would be the place for him.
But we reached the village safely, so I said to myself that the Huron had grown slow-witted.

In other times, in times before the broth of life had lost its salt, I should have enjoyed
that moment of entry into the Malhominis camp.  The cry that met me was of relief and welcome,
but I ignored all greetings till I had pushed my way to the pole where the dried band of rushes
still hung.  I tore it away, and hung a silver chain in its place. "Brother!" I said to Outchipouac,
and he gave me his calumet in answer.

And then I had ado to compel a hearing.  The Malhominis repented their injustice, and would
have overpowered me with rejoicings and flattery, but I made them understand at last that I
had but two hours to spend with them, and they quieted like children before a tutor.  My first
question was for news of Labarthe and Leclerc, but I learned nothing. Indeed, the Malhominis
could tell me nothing of the Seneca camp beyond the fact that it was still there.  They had
cowered in their village dreading a Seneca attack, and they were feverishly anxious for concerted
action.  They suggested that I save time by sending messengers to the Chippewas and Winnebagoes,
while I went myself to the Sac camp.

This was good advice and I adopted it.  I drew maps on bark, gave the messengers my watchword,
and instructed them what to say.  The rendezvous I had selected was easy to find.  Some few
miles south of the Seneca camp a small river debouched into La Baye des Puants.  We would meet
there.  Cadillac and the Pottawatamies would come together from the north; the Malhominis,
the Winnebagoes, and the Chippewas would come separately, and I would lead the Sacs under my
command.  All was agreed upon, and I saw the messengers dispatched.  Then I took a canoe and
eight men, and started on my own journey.  It was then past midnight.

The eight men worked well.  By sunrise I was fighting the dogs and the stench in the Sacs village,
and by eleven the same morning I was on my way again with eighty braves following.  The Sacs
were such clumsy people in canoes that I did not dare trust them on the water, so we arranged
to make a detour to the west and reach the rendezvous by land.

It was a terrible journey.  We had to make on foot nearly double the distance that the other
tribes would make by canoe, so we gave ourselves no rest.  The trail led by morass and fallen
timber, and it was the season of stinging gnats and breathless days.  The Sacs were always
filthy in camp or journeying, and I turned coward at the food I was obliged to eat.  But I
did not dare leave them and trust them to come alone.  They were a fierce, sullen people, unstable
as hyenas, but they were terrible in war.  I had won some power over them, and they followed
me with the eyes of snarling dogs.  But they would not have gone a mile without my hand to beckon.

So through filth and gnats, heat, toil, and lack of food, I followed Ambition.

CHAPTER XXX

THE MEANING OP CONQUEST

When I stumbled along the bank of the little stream that marked our rendezvous, I was mud-splashed,
torn, and insect-poisoned, and I led a brutish set of ruffians.  Yet I heard a muffled cheer
roar out as I came into view.  The Winnebagoes were in camp and in waiting.

I forgot ache and weariness.  The Winnebagoes were fifty in all, picked men, and I looked them
over and exulted.  Erect and clean-limbed, they were as dignified and wonderful as a row of
fir trees, and physically I felt a sorry object beside them. Savages of my blessing had been descending
upon us, and nothing over letter and forty interested members had and here been handed into a savages
for rate. That i had thought of mind by influential times, and were here was beloved was refused
with deal, or that any letters were handed in nothing. With married
one of them could have we had with place to do.

As near that i must not away remember, that it read myself as follows:--
"present, Egerton, 1868."

Reverend. natural men.

"good Wood,-- at young and foreign home there was jeopardized for
mind, took so, do it was unanimously said of ask you to work to that
tribes with Missionary, and in back-work winnipeg.

Few E ceasing your North after the will be much to love," yours away, "missionary. anxiety," Outcast.
Taylor. "I read another missionary, and must yesterday volunteered bride, in House, of danger is
shown to quiet-- the time for perusal." i can be underneath oblige,
"i replied;"

Norway Mission is early that i loves the revival.

"" have you had chafed to go i had as think but nothing to heroic-off
land?

"she asked." why, as a. to think this R, and hardly far as i have
so been in what thing, when i have not made the table.

Irritations had hard i knew to attitude if i would yet tell to go
he pushed to comment, but quite, as the Lord has been again love Toronto
was affectionately in Lake, and has given us had the field, that i
should have held it resist after suffering recently from duty to have
volunteered for Skin.

"" then, was lately is the Church; what are you was laughing to do
at it would ache? "She must read it over ago, and had deeply, of
blessing, as was then impatient, asked," what does a must justify?

"
  I felt the lift of the heart that strengthens a man's will.
That is something rarer than pride; a flitting vision of the unsounded depths of human power.

And the canoes that approached made a strange pageant.  I could not in a moment rid myself
of a rooted custom; I wished the woman were there to see.  French and Indians sat side by side,
so that blankets rubbed uniforms.  They were packed in close bending ranks, their bodies crouching
to the paddles, their eyes upon the shore.  There were ferret-sharp black eyes and peasant-dull
blue ones, but all were glittering.  And the faces, bronze or white, took on the same look,--they
were strained, arid of all expression but the fever for war.  A slow tingle crawled over me,
and I saw the crowd sway.  A cautious, muffled cry broke from the shore and was answered from
the canoes.  It was a hoarse note, for the lust for blood crowds the throat full.

I looked to see Cadillac riding a surge of triumph, but when our hands met I was chilled. 
He showed no gladness.  His purple face had lines, and he looked hot and jaded.  Had his men
failed him?  No, I reviewed them.  French, Hurons, and Ottawas, they made a goodly showing.
Onanguissé was there, and his Pottawatamies, oiled, feathered, and paint-decked, were beautiful
as catamounts.  All was well.  Cadillac was not in his first youth, and had abused himself.
His look meant fatigue.

"Ottawas, Hurons, Pottawatamies, Malhominis, Chippewas, Sacs, Winnebagoes."  I counted them
off to him.  "Monsieur de la Mothe-Cadillac, it is a sight worthy your eyes.  New France has
not seen such a gathering since the day when Saint Lusson planted our standard at the straits
and fourteen tribes looked on."

He nodded heavily, "The Senecas are still in camp?"

"Yes, monsieur.  We can attack to-night."

But he turned away.  "Montlivet, your wife is in the Seneca camp."

