Blessed is he who crucifieth the World and hath not suffered the World to crucify him.

Blessed is the man who knoweth these things, who hath brought Heaven down upon Earth and hath
taken Earth and hath lifted it up unto Heaven, and hath so wrought that the Midst is a Nothing.

              The Book of the Gnoses of the
                Invisible God.

CONTENTS

Introduction

The Gnôsis of the Light

Notes

INTRODUCTION

This translation of the ancient Gnôstic work, called by Schmidt, the Untitled Apocalypse, is
based chiefly on Amélineau's French version of the superior MS. of the Codex Brucianus, now
in the Bodleian Library, Oxford.  In making the rendering I have studied the context carefully,
and have not neglected the Greek words interspersed with the Coptic; also I have availed myself
of Mr Mead's translation of certain important passages from Schmidt's edition, for purposes
of comparison. Anything that I have added to bring out the meaning of the Gnôstic author now
and again, I have enclosed in brackets.  Such suggestions have always arisen from the text.
I fancy my English version will be found to give a reasonably accurate idea of the contents
of one of the most abstruse symbolical works in the world.  The notes that I have added are
not intended to be final or exhaustive, but to give the general reader some guidance towards
understanding the intensely interesting topics with which the powerful mind of the ancient
mystical writer was preoccupied.  I have endeavoured to show myself a sympathetic "Hierophant"
or expounder of some of the mysteries, not without study of the Gnôsis, both of the Christianised
and purely Hellenistic type, for the key to the understanding of symbolism is only given into
the hands of sympathy.

The Codex Brucianus was brought to England from Upper Egypt, by the famous traveller Bruce,
in 1769, and bequeathed by him to the care of the Bodleian Library, Oxford.  It contains several
Gnôstic works translated into the Upper Egyptian dialect from the Greek, and probably is as
old as the sixth century A.D.  The Greek originals were of course much older, that is to say,
the MSS. to which the codex ultimately goes back were much older.  We are only concerned with
one of them here, the so-called Untitled Apocalypse, which is markedly distinct from the others
in character and style.  Schmidt dates it well in the second century A.D., and with this estimate
I am inclined to agree.  It shows, as I have endeavoured to make clear in the notes, marked
affinities in some respects to the Gospel of Mary (Codex Akhmim), which we know to have been
in existence before 180 A.D., and its philosophical basis is the Platonism of Alexandria. 
If it is by one writer, I think it may be dated from 160 or 170 A.D.-200 A.D., and belongs
to the period of Basilides and Valentinus.

Before venturing upon any discussion of the authorship and contents of our document, it would
be as well to say a few words as to the meaning of that much misunderstood technical term "Gnôsis"
in Hellenistic and early Christian theology.  For a fuller exposition I would refer the reader
to the admirable essay upon the subject by Mr G. R. S. Mead in his volume Quests Old and New.
Gnôsis was not "philosophy" in the generally accepted sense of the term, or even religio-philosophy.
"It was immediate knowledge of God's mysteries received from direct intercourse with the Deity--mysteries
which must remain hidden from the natural man, a knowledge at the same time which exercises
decided reaction on our relationship to God and also on our nature or disposition" (Reitzenstein).
It was the power or gift of receiving and understanding revelation, which finally culminated
in the direct unveiled vision of God and the transformation of the whole man into spiritual
being by contact with Him.  The ground of the idea of Gnôsis does not seem to be very different
from that of the later "Mystical Theology," "which originally meant the direct, secret, and
incommunicable knowledge of God received in contemplation" (Dom John Chapman).  The revelation
sought for was not so much a dogmatic revelation as a revelation of the processes of "transmutation"
of Rebirth, of Apotheosis or "Deification."  Its aim was dynamic rather than static.  But while
the followers of the Gnôsis, both Christian and Hellenistic, would have agreed that the direct
knowledge of God is incommunicable to others, they undoubtedly seem to have held that there
were what may be described as intermediate or preparatory processes or energisings which could
be communicated: (1) by initiation into a holy community; (2) by a duly qualified master; (3)
under the veils of symbols and sacraments.

The Gnôstic movement began long before the Christian era (what its original historical impulse
was we do not know), and only one aspect of it, and that from a strictly limited point of view,
has been treated by ecclesiastical historians.  Recent investigations have challenged the traditional
outlook and the traditional conclusions and the traditional "facts."  With some to-day, and
with many more to-morrow, the burning question is, or will be--not how did a peculiarly silly
and licentious heresy rise within the Church--but how did the Church rise out of the great
Gnôstic movement, and how did the dynamic ideas of the Gnôsis become crystallised into Dogmas?
I do not indicate a solution; I do not express an opinion.  I call attention to a fact in the
world of scholarship that will not be without its decided reaction upon the plain man.  But
the study of the ancient Gnôsis, and indeed of mysticism generally, has left another suggestion
that seems laden with limitless possibilities.  Let us first go back to what I said as to the
communication of certain "processes," "leavenings," or "energisings" under a sacramental veil.
These processes were held to modify the nature of the person who submitted to them in a peculiar
manner that was likened to the impress or "character" of a seal upon wax.  These seals or "characters"
could not only be acquired through formal rites and by the laying on of the hands of a master,
but also, I am disposed to believe, by a certain mode of study--I am developing the Gnôstic
theory, not stating one of my own--namely, that of a highly symbolic literature.  The objection
of the Gnôstic to a plain statement of facts would probably be somewhat as follows: "What you
say is very good and true as far as it goes, but it is 'Pistis,' not Gnôsis; Faith, not Knowledge.
You desire to be a changed man.  Pistis will change you to a certain extent.  I have nothing
to say against it, but it will not change you in the radical way that Gnôsis does."  If you
went on to argue that your statement was reasonable and received admirable support from logic
and philosophy, he would probably reply: "Philosophy of the kind you mention is excellent,
and forms a basis for Gnôsis which is not contrary to reason, though it is above it.  Gnôsis
is a rebirth by which you become a god, and then you will have no need to find out things by
talking and discursive reasoning, for everything will be within yourself and you will know
all things in a vital way, by an act of simple intuition in the end.  Your knowledge will be
external, superficial.  Gnôsis, you may be surprised to learn, is not just 'knowing,' it is
light and 'life,' living and being as well.  This must not be taken as an attacking reason;
if you join our school you will have a stiff course of Plato.  You ought to know the 'Things
that are' from the ordinary point of view, from outside, before you approach them with the
idea of getting inside them, and so raising them up within yourself as far-shining lives. 
Afterwards you will study in a new manner that will seem madness to the common-sensed; and
a Divine Madness indeed it is, for it will lead you to the secret of the Cross."

Hence the disciple was confronted in due time with a document that would not yield its secrets
to dialectic, a kind of ritual in words that initiated his intuition into self-knowledge. 
Intense devotion was needed, imagination, and will-power.  The Gnôsis came gradually, perhaps
after the manuscript had been laid aside; it was the effort towards a sympathetic understanding
that mattered, that was rewarded with life and light from God.  The mere success of the logical
mind in unravelling a puzzle was as nothing, for the readings of these monstrous, many-faceted
stars of symbolism were infinite.  That the intuition should enter into self awareness as into
a sacred place of the mysteries--that was a process of the Gnôsis.

Now this strange way of teaching, which was really a "Cloud of Unknowing," was the real basis
and point, as it were, of the Alexandrine method of interpreting Scripture.  Think of Philo
and what he says of the teaching of his Gnôstic Therapeuts.  Think of Clement, and of Origen
with his "Eternal Gospel."  This quickening of the intuition into knowledge of itself and God,
through allegory and symbol based on philosophy, was the Everlasting Gospel.

So Gnôstic documents were not merely intended to puzzle the outsider, but the insider as well.
This fact will enable us to appreciate better Basilides' famous remark about the one or two
only who could understand his system.  His frame of mind was a little like that of a university
examiner after setting a paper.  We need not think that these people were altogether destitute
of humour.  It would be a gross exaggeration, of course, to say that all the Gnôstic systems
described in Irenaeus and Hippolytus might have been devised by the same man, but it would
be a useful exaggeration, illustrating the extreme anti-literalist point of view.  Our knowledge
of the schools rests for the most part on reports made upon documents such as these, the purport
of which was entirely missed by those that made them.  They treated Gnôsis as if it were another
kind of "Pistis," or another system of philosophy.  One doubts very much the correctness of
the traditional classification of schools, which was made by people who were not in very close
touch with them.  One doubts if there was much hostility between these schools, however much
their symbolism may appear to differ on the surface.

What was the result of these processes "initiated" or "started" by sacramental rites, by symbolism,
by masters of Gnôsis?  Was the result something purely "subjective" at best?  The answer of
the Masters of the Gnôsis to this question, which is characteristic of the modern mind and
expresses the doubt which is gnawing at the heart of much modern religious life, would have
been "No.  There are certain physical changes as well.  The body is spiritualised."  They might
possibly have added, "It is assumed, in part at least, by the Body of Stars[1] which has been
awakened within it.  This is the Body by means of which Union with God takes place, and then
still more wonderful changes happen.  We can awaken the Body of Stars or Rays, but to unite
it with Himself, that depends upon the Will of God above, but all is a mystery of Grace."

This awakening of the Body of Stars, this assumption, or partial assumption, by immortality
of the inner flesh, is the interesting possibility to which I referred earlier.  Let me here
quote two Catholic writers.  Says Döllinger (First Age, p. 235, quoting Rom. vii. 22, 1 Cor.
vi. 14, Eph. iii. 16 and 30, in support), "Saint Paul not only divides man into body and spirit,
but distinguishes in the bodily nature, the gross, visible, bodily frame and a hidden, inner
'spiritual' body not subject to limits of space or cognisable by the senses; this last, which
shall hereafter be raised, is alone fit for and capable of organic union with the glorified
body of Christ, of substantial incorporation with it."  Dom John Chapman, O.S.B., in his excellent
article on "Catholic Mysticism" in Hastings' Encyclopaedia of Religion and Ethics, vol. ix.,
writes: "It is not to be denied that this psycho-physical side demands scientific investigation.
It seems certain that St John of the Cross is justified in his view that the body is somehow
'spiritualised' by contemplation.  Such facts as the power of saints over the animal world
and the power of reading thoughts, e.g., are proved beyond cavil."

Here, then, we have a consistent tradition held by many schools, and I think that it is by
investigation along the lines suggested by Dom John Chapman that there is the greatest chance
of arriving at some proof of immortality that will satisfy the scientific mind.  For the claim
of mystics is that here and now it is possible to participate consciously in that which is
immortal, and the "spiritualising" of the body is an outward sign of the substantiality of
that claim, the standard set up upon a hill to testify that the human consciousness is not
planetary merely, not "hylic," nor "psychic," but has its root in the wisdom that issues from
an inconceivable Abyss of Life and Light.

I believe that the original source of the document I have translated belonged to an Egyptian
community or school of contemplation whose name has been forgotten in the night of time; that
it was connected with the preparation of a candidate for the Baptism of Light.  What form this
rite really took it is impossible to say, but that it had outward signs of some kind is extremely
probable.  We have an old Gnôstic ritual preserved in the compilation generally known as the
"Acts of John." Perhaps this may give us some idea of the sort of ceremony that was worked.
I fancy there was an Eucharistic side, and that the Baptism of Light was connected with the
mystic crucifixion alluded to so often in the notes.  Possibly in the midst of the sacred dance,
at the breaking of the Bread, there was a certain laying on of hands by an adept Master, one
who had himself attained to the autoptic vision, and then the candidate was left alone to immerse
himself in the Dark Ray of the Divine Mind.

I think also that the original MS. was based upon the work of one Master, whose name, like
that of the order to which he belonged, is lost in the night of time, but that it also contains
amplifications and additions by at least one later hand.  It will thus represent the mind of
a grade of teaching, and possibly contains material dating back to the period of the Therapeutae
that Philo knew.  In other words, the community may have been an old one before it was Christianised.
In any case, it remains the record of a stupendous spiritual adventure, the attempt to produce
a race of Divinised men, that is not without the splendour of tragedy, for at some time, like
the Holy Cup of Legend, the presence of Masterhood departed, and the external house fell into
ruin and its place knew it no more.  Perhaps, in the desire to propagate, it admitted unworthy
candidates; perhaps it turned to the by-ways of magic in an attempt to arrest the external
course of nature and to defy necessity; perhaps there came a day when none could understand
the inner meaning of the high and far-shining mysteries, and so amidst party strife the building
word was lost.  Many a man, no doubt, who called himself a "Gnôstic" was but a sorry rogue;
many another was but a student of the letter, not of the life; many another was but a spiritual
swashbuckler, pompous in his demeanour and cryptic in his utterance; some, led by an abhorrent
fantasy, may have wandered along the path that goes to the Venus-berg and have striven to lisp
a formula that would transform the earth into Gehenna rather than into Heaven.  But, beside
this mass of imposture, of folly, of elegant idleness and of corruption, the à rebours of a
spiritual outpouring, there was a real mysticism that could present the Authentic Spectacle
and could utter comfortable words in tongues not of this world utterly. There was a Gnôsis
that strove to give the Peace of God to those within and to those without, because in Peace
all things were made, that yearned to bring forth children, quickened fiery souls, æons, gods,
in bodies of light for the love of God; that saw in all things Grace, the Sponsa Dei, the Mother
most pure and immaculate.  "No creature was ever wronged of Thee," no spark ever quenched,
no hope defrauded and hurled eternally from the sky with shattered wings by Thee.  Such is
the fair Faith that chanted its prayer beneath a heaven set with such strange galaxies, and
whispers to us now through the disremembered symbols of a forgotten book.

It is pleasant, in these days of strife, to be able to quote Dr Schmidt's appreciation of the
Untitled Apocalypse with a cordial agreement:

"What a different world, on the contrary, meets us in our thirty-one leaves!  We find ourselves
in the pure spheres of the highest Plêrôma; we see, step by step, this world, so rich in heavenly
beings, coming into existence before our eyes; each individual space with all its inmates is
minutely described, so that we can form for ourselves a living picture of the glory and splendour
of this Gnôstic heaven.  The speculations are not so confused and fantastic as those of the
Pistis Sophia and our two Books of Jeu....  The author is imbued with the Greek spirit, equipped
with a full knowledge of Greek philosophy, full of the doctrine of the Platonic ideas, an adherent
of Plato's view of the origin of evil--that is to say, Hyle....  We possess in these leaves
a magnificently conceived work by an old Gnôstic philosopher, and we stand astonished, marvelling
at the boldness of the speculations, dazzled by the richness of the thought, touched by the
depth of soul of the author.  This is not, like the Pistis Sophia, the product of declining
Gnôsticism, but dates from a period when Gnôstic genius, like a mighty eagle, left the world
behind it and soared in wide and ever wider circles towards pure light, towards pure knowledge,
in which it lost itself in ecstasy.

"In one word, we possess in this Gnôstic work, as regards age and contents, a work of the very
highest importance, which takes us into a period of Gnôsticism, and therefore of Christianity,
of which very little knowledge has been handed down to us."

Finally, I wish to acknowledge my indebtedness to the scholarship of Mr G. R. S. Mead, whose
labours in the field of Hellenistic Theology have to my mind received insufficient recognition,
and whose admirable translations I have often used in the notes.

[1] Not to be confused with the "astral body" of modern theosophy.

The Gnôsis of the Light

[1]This is the Father of all Fathers, the God of all ... Gods, Lord of all Lords, Sonship of
all Sons, Saviour of all Saviours, Invisible of all Invisibles, Infinity of all Infinities,
Uncontainable of all Uncontainables, Beyond-the-Deep of all Beyond-the-Deeps, Space of all
Spaces.  This is the Spiritual Mind which existed before all Spiritual Minds, the Holy Place
comprehending all Holy Places, the Good comprehending all Goods.  This is the Seed of all good
things.  It is He who has brought them all forth, this Autophues or Being who has produced
Himself, who existed before all the beings of the Plêrôma which He Himself has brought forth,
Who is in all time.  This is that Ingenerable and Eternal One who has no name and who has all
names; who was the first to know those of the Universe, who has looked upon those of the Universe,
who has heard those of the Universe.  He is mightier than all might, upon whose incomprehensible
Face no one is able to gaze.  Beyond all mind does He exist in His own Form, Solitary and Unknowable.
The Universal Mystery is He, the Universal Wisdom, of all things the Beginning.  In Him are
all Lights, all Life, and all Repose. He is the Beatitude of which all in the Universe are
in need, for that they might receive Him they are.  All beings of the Universe does He behold
within Himself, that One Uncontainable, who parts those of the Universe and receives them all
into Himself.  Without Him is nothing, for all the worlds exist in Him, and He is the boundary
of them all. All of them has He enclosed, for in Him is all.  No Space is there without Him,
nor any Intelligence; for without that Only One there exists nothing.  The Eternities (æons)
contemplate His incomprehensibility which is within them all, but understand it not. They wonder
at it because He limits them all.  They strive towards the City in which is their Image.  In
this City (1) it is that they move and live [and have their true being]; for it is the House
of the Father, the Robe of the Son, and the Power of the Mother, the Image of the Plêrôma.
He is the First Father of all things, the First Eternal, the King of those that None can Touch;
He in whom all things lose themselves, He who has given all things form within Himself; the
Space which has grown from Itself, He who is born of Himself, the Abyss of all being, the Great
and True One who is in the Deep; He in whom the Fullnesses (Plêrômata) did come, and even they
are silent before Him. They have not named Him, because Unnamable and beyond thought is He,
that First Fount whose Eternity stretches through all Spaces, that First Tone (2) whereby all
things hearken and understand.  He it is whose limbs make a myriad, myriad Powers, and every
Power is a being in itself.

The Second Space is that which is called Creator, Father, Word, Source, Mind, Man, Eternal,
Infinite.  He is the Pillar, the Overseer, the Father of all.  He it is upon whose Head the
æons form a crown, darting forth their rays.  The Fullness of His Countenance is unknown to
the external worlds who seek His Face, for evermore yearning to know It; for unto them His
Word has run forth and to behold It is their desire. The Light of His Eyes pierces to the spaces
of the external Plêrôma and the Word goes forth from His Mouth to those who dwell in Heaven
and to those who dwell beneath it.  The hairs of His Head are the number of the Hidden Worlds,
and the Features of His Face are the type of the Eternities; the hairs of His Beard are the
number of the External Worlds.  The stretching out of His Hands is the manifestation of the
Cross (3).  The strain of the Cross is the Ennead, the Ninefold Being. He who springs up [?
or is nailed] to the right and to the left of the Cross is the Man whom no man can comprehend.
He is the Father, the Fount whence Silence wells, He for whom the Quest is everywhere.  The
Father is He from whom went forth the Monad and the Spark of Light, and before this all the
Worlds were dark nothings.  For it is that Spark of Light which has placed all things in the
rays of Its Splendour, so they have received Knowledge [Gnôsis], Life, Hope, Peace, Faith,
Love and Resurrection, the Second Birth and the Seal.  Now these things are the Ennead, the
Ninefold Being, which has come forth from the Father without beginning, who alone has been
His own Father and His own Mother, whose Plêrôma surrounds the twelve (4) Deeps.

The First Deep is the Universal Fount, from whom all fountains have gone forth.

The Second Deep is the Universal Wisdom, from whom all wisdoms have gone forth.

The Third Deep is the Universal Mystery, from whom all mysteries have gone forth.

The Fourth Deep is the Universal Gnôsis, from whom all Gnôses have gone forth.

The Fifth Deep is the Universal Purity, from whom all purity has gone forth.

The Sixth Deep is the Silence that contains all silences.

The Seventh Deep is the Universal Super-essential Essence, from whom all essences have gone forth.

The Eighth Deep is the Forefather from whom and by whom all forefathers exist.

The Ninth Deep is the All-Father, Self-Father, in whom is the All-Paternity of those who are
Self-Fathers of the all.

The Tenth Deep is the All-Power, from whom all powers have gone forth.

The Eleventh Deep is that in which there is the First Invisible, from whom have gone forth
all invisibles.

The Twelfth Deep is the Truth, from whence all truths have sped forth.

Now the Truth (5) which envelops all things is the Image of the Father, the End of all things.
She is the Mother of all Eternities, who surrounds all Deeps, the Monad beyond knowledge who
cannot be known, without seal-mark and having all seal-marks within, blessed for ever and ever.
To the Father Ineffable, Inconceivable, Unthinkable, Unchangeable, all things have been made
like in their being.  They rejoiced and have been filled with life-giving powers.  They engendered
myriads and myriads and myriads of æons, and in Joy, because they rejoiced with the Father (6).

These are the worlds from which the Cross upsprang, and from their incorporeal limbs the Man
has come forth.  It is the Father and Fount of all being who has produced the limbs.

Now from the Father are all names (7), whether Ineffable One, or Incorruptible One, or Invisible
One, or Simple One, or Solitary One, or Powerful One, or Triple-powered One, or the names that
in Silence alone are named.  In the Father are they all, and He it is whom the Outer Worlds
behold [as men behold] the starry sky at night.  Even as men [so gazing into the night] desire
to see the Sun, so do the Outer Worlds desire to see Him because of the very Invisibility which
surrounds Him. He it is who to the æons gives life perpetually, and by His Word hath the Indivisible
... the Monad in order to know it.  For it is by His Word that the Holy Plêrôma exists.  This
is the Father, the Second Creator, by the breath of whose Mouth Providence (Pronoia) has been
in travail of those who were not, and it is by His Will that they are.... This is the Father,
Ineffable, Unspeakable, Beyond Knowledge, Invisible, Immeasurable, Infinite.  He has produced
those that are in Him within Himself.  The Thought of His Greatness has He brought forth from
non-being that He might make them to be.  Incomprehensible is He in His limbs.  A Space has
He made for His limbs that they might dwell in Him and know Him for their Sire.  From His First
Thought (8) has He made them come forth, and she has become a Space for them and given them
being....

In this wise has He created the Temple of the Plêrôma.  At the four gates of the [Temple of]
the Plêrôma are four Monads, a Monad at each gate, and six Supporters at each gate, in all
four and twenty Supporters, and four and twenty myriads of powers at each gate, nine Enneads
at each gate, ten Decads at each gate, twelve Dodecads at each gate, and five Pentads of Powers
at each gate.  At each gate there is an Overseer of triple aspect having countenances Ingenerable,
True, and Ineffable.  Of these faces one gazes upon the external æons without the gate; another
beholds Sêtheus, and the third looks upward to the Sonship contained in every Monad.  There
it is that Aphrêdon is discovered with his twelve Holy Ones and the Forefather, and in that
Space abides also Adam, the Man of the Light, with his three hundred æons.  There also is the
Perfect Mind.  All these surround a Basket (9) that knows no death.  The Ineffable face of
the Overseer, who is the Warden of the Holy Place, gazes into the Holy of Holies upon the Boundless
One.  Now this Warden has faces twain.  One is disclosed from the side of the Deep, the other
from the side of the Overseer called the Child (or Servant).  For there is a Deep [within the
Holy of Holies] which is named "Light" (10), or "He who gives the Light," and in this Abyss
there is concealed an Alone-begotten Son.  He it is who manifests the Three Powers, who is
mighty amongst all Powers.

This (? the Holy of Holies) is the Indivisible One, [the atom--Body or Church] that can never
be divided, in whom the All is discovered, because all powers are hers.

He who is the Triple Power has three faces, an Aphrêdonian face that is called Aphrêdon Pêxos,
in which is found a latent Only-begotten One.

When the (?) Idea comes out of the Deep, Aphrêdon takes the Thought to conduct her to the Alone-begotten
of Alone-begottens, to lead her to the Child, so that she may be brought to the Space of the
Triple Power for self-perfecting, and be escorted in the Space of the Five Ingenerables.

There is also another Space called the Deep, where there are three Paternities.  In the first
thereof is Kaluptô, the Hidden God.  In the Second Paternity there are Five Trees, and in the
midst of them an altar.  An Alone-begotten Word stands upon the altar, having the twelve countenances
of the Mind of all things, and before him are the prayers of all beings placed.  The Universe
rejoices over him because he has manifested himself.  He it is that the Invisible World has
struggled to know, and it is on his account that the Man has appeared.  In the Third Paternity
is Silence and the Fount which twelve Anointed Ones contemplate, beholding themselves therein.
In him are also found Love and the Universal Mind and furthermore the Universal Mother from
whom has gone forth that Ennead whose names are Prôtia, Pantia, Pangenia, Loxophania, Loxogenia,
Loxokrateia, Lôia, and Iouêl.  She is the First Beyond Knowledge, the Mother of the Ennead,
who completes a Decad, come forth from the Monad of the Unknowable.

Following there is another Space, more stretched out, where is hidden a great treasure which
the Universe surrounds.  [This Space] is the Immeasurable Deep where is an altar whereon three
Powers are gathered: a Solitary being, an Unknowable being, and an Infinite being, in the midst
of whom is revealed a Sonship called the Anointed Glorifier. This is he who glorifies everyone
and impresses upon him the seal of the Father, who brings everybody into the eternity of the
First Father who is the One, He for whose sake all is and without whom nothing is. Now this
Anointed One has twelve faces, visages Unbounded, Uncontainable, Ineffable, Simple, Imperishable,
Solitary, Unknowable, Invincible, Thrice-powerful, Unshakable, Ingenerable, and Pure.  These
Spaces, where are these twelve founts, named Founts of Reasons, full of eternal life, are called
Deeps as well as the Twelve Countenances, because they have received in them all Spaces of
Paternity on behalf of the Plêrômata and the Fruit which the Plêrôma emanated, who is Christ
who has received the Plêrôma in Himself.

Beyond all these Spaces comes the Deep of Sêtheus.  This he who is in them all and is surrounded
by twelve Paternities, even in the midst of these is he.  Each Paternity has three faces. 
The first of them is an Indivisible One, and three faces has he, Infinite, Invisible, and Ineffable
faces.  The Second Father has Uncontainable, Unshakable, and Incorruptible faces.  The Third
Father has faces Beyond Knowledge, Imperishable, and Aphrêdonian.  The Fourth Father has a
countenance of Silence, a face of Founts, and a visage Impalpable.  The Fifth Father has Solitary,
Omnipotent, and Ingenerable faces.  The Sixth Father has the face of an All-Father, the face
of a Self-Father, and the face of a Forefather.  The Seventh Father has countenances of Universal
Mystery, of Universal Wisdom and Universal Origin.  Visages has the Eighth Father of Light,
Repose, and Resurrection.  The Ninth Father has faces Knowable, First Visible, and...  The
Tenth Father has Triple-fleshed, Adamic, and Pure faces.  The Eleventh Father has faces Triple-powered,
Perfect, and Sparkling.  The Twelfth Father has a face of Truth, a face of Fore-thought, and
a face of After-thought.  These are the twelve Paternities which encircle Sêtheus.  [Their
faces] make in all a [mystic] number thirty-six.  These are they from whom those of the exterior
have received a seal-mark, that is why they glorify them for evermore (11).

In that Space there are yet twelve other paternities who encircle the head [of Sêtheus] and
support a crown there.  They dart out rays upon the surrounding worlds by the Grace of the
Alone-begotten Word, concealed in him, He that is sought for.

[The passage enclosed within brackets has been so mutilated by the Coptic scribe that what
follows is of the nature of a paraphrase rather than of a translation:--(As to the mysteries
of the Word that are so much beyond us, it is not possible to describe them otherwise than
as follows.  Not possible for us, that is.  It is impossible to describe Him as He really is
with a tongue of flesh.  There are glories too exalted for descriptions moved by thought and
for intuition that comes through symbols, except one finds a master who is a kinsman of the
deathless race yonder.  From such an one can be learned something of the Spaces from whence
he came; for he finds the root of all things. The mighty powers of the great æons of the Power
that was in Marsanes have said in adoration, "Who is he who hath seen aught in the presence
of His Face?"  That is because thus does He manifest Himself [? the Alone to the Alone], Nicotheos
has spoken of Him [the Alone-begotten] and seen Him, for he is one of these.  He [Nicotheos]
said, "The Father exists exalted above all the perfect."  Nicotheos has revealed the Invisible
and the perfect Triple-power.  All perfect men have seen Him, they have declared Him and have
given Him glory with their own lips) (12).] That is the Alone-begotten Word hidden in Sêtheus,
He who is called the Dark Ray (13), for it is the excess of His light alone that is darkness.
Sêtheus reigns by Him.

The Alone-begotten holds in His right hand twelve Paternities, the types of the twelve Apostles
(14), while in His left hand are thirty Powers.  Each of them emanates twelve two-faced æons
after the type of Sêtheus.  One of these faces beholds the Deep which is in the Interior [of
the Temple of the Plêrôma]; the other looks without upon the Triple-Power.  Each of the Paternities
in His right hand emanates three hundred and sixty-five powers, according to the word that
David spake, saying, "I will cherish the crown of the year in Thy Righteousness." For all these
Powers encircle the Alone-begotten Son as a crown, illuminating the æons with the light of
the Alone-begotten, as it is written, "In Thy light shall we see light." And the Alone-begotten
is lifted up upon [the powers], as again it is written, "The Chariot of God is a myriad of
multiplications"; and again, "There are millions of beings who rejoice; the Lord is in them" (15).

This is He who dwells in the Monad in Sêtheus, which comes from the place concerning which
one does not ask, "Where is it?"  She comes from Him who is before these Fullnesses.  From
the One and Only, even from Him has come forth the Monad, as a ship laden with all good things,
or as a full field planted with every manner of tree, or as a city filled with men of every
race and with all the statues of the king.  Thus it is with the Monad where the Whole is found.

Upon her head twelve Monads form a crown; each has emanated another twelve.  Ten Decads encircle
her neck, nine Enneads are about her heart, and seven Hebdomads are under her feet, and each
has emanated a Hebdomad.  The firmament which surrounds her is like a tower with twelve gates,
and at every gate are twelve myriads of powers; archangels are they called, or angels.  This
is the metropolis of the Alone-begotten Son (16).

Now it is of the Alone-begotten that Phôsilampes (17) has said, "Before all things is He."
He it is who has come forth from the Infinite; He who has engendered Himself there and has
no seal nor form and has given birth to Himself.  This is He who is come forth from the Ineffable
One, the Immeasurable One, who truly is, and in whom is found all that truly is, who is the
Father Incomprehensible.  He is in His Alone-begotten Son, while the All reposes in the Ineffable
and Unspeakable King, whom none can move and whose Divinity no one can declare, whose kingdom
is not of this world.  Meditating upon Him, Phôsilampes has said, "Through Him is That-which-really-is
and That-which-really-is-not, through which the Hidden-which-really-is and the Manifest-which-really-is-not
exists."

He is the true Alone-begotten God, and all the Fullnesses (Plêrômata) know that it is by Him
that they have become gods and that they have become rulers in this name--God.  That which
was made in Him was Life."

The Alone-begotten is found in the Monad, dwelling in her as in a city, and the Monad is in
Sêtheus as a concept, and Sêtheus dwells in the Temple as King and as God.  He is the Word
creative, who has commanded the Fullnesses to labour; the Creative Mind after the order of
God the Father, whom all creation worships as God and Lord, to whom all is subjected.

The Fullnesses wonder at Him [Sêtheus] because of His beauty and grace. Around His head those
of the Inner Spaces of the Universe form a crown; those of the external spaces are beneath
His feet, while those of the middle spaces encircle Him, all praising Him and saying, "Holy,
Holy, Holy, AAA, HHH, EEE, III, OOO, YYY, ΩΩΩ"--that is to say, "Thou art the Living One of
Living Ones, Holy of Holies, Being of Beings, Father of Fathers, God of Gods, Lord of Lords,
Space of Spaces" (18).  They praise Him, saying, "Thou art the House and the Dweller in the
House." They praise Him, saying unto the Son concealed in Him, "Thou art: Thou art, O Alone-begotten,
Light and Life and Grace."

When Sêtheus sent the Light-Spark from the Indivisible [Body], it burned and gave light to
all the Space of the Temple of the Plêrômata. And they, beholding the light of the Spark, rejoiced
and uttered myriads and myriads of praises in honour of Sêtheus and of the Light-Spark which
was manifested, seeing that in it were all their images, and they fashioned the Spark among
themselves as a Man light-giving and true.  They named Him "Pantomorphos," and Pure, and Unshakable,
and all the eternities also called him "All-powered."  He is the Servant of the Æons and serves
the Fullnesses (19).  And the Father sealed the Man His Son in their interior so that they
might know Him interiorly, and the Word moved them to contemplate the Invisible One beyond
knowledge, and they gave glory to this One and Only One, to the Concept which is in Him and
to the Intelligible Word, praising these Three who are One, because by Him have they been made
essential beings.  The Father took their total image and made of it a City or a Man and figured
in Him all those of the Plêrôma, that is to say, all the powers.  Each one of them knew his
image in the City, for everyone of the myriads of glories found himself in the Man or City
of the Father which is in the Plêrôma.  The Father took His radiant glory and made thereof
an outer vesture for the Man....

He created in Him the type of the Temple of the Plêrôma.  He made His shoulders, which came
out one from the other, after the type of those hundred myriads of powers, less four myriads.
He created His fingers and toes like the two Decads, the hidden Decad and the manifest Decad.
He created His organ like the Monad concealed in Sêtheus.  He created the great reins like
Sêtheus.  He made His breast like the Interior of the Temple and His feet after the type of
the Solitary and Unknowable Ones who serve the Plêrôma, rejoicing with those that rejoice.
He made His limbs after the type of the Deep which encloses three hundred and sixty-five Paternities
after the type of the Paternities.  He fashioned His hair after the type of the Worlds of the
Plêrôma and filled Him with wisdom like the Universal Wisdom, and filled Him with interior
mystery like Sêtheus and with exterior mystery like the Indivisible [Body].  Incomprehensible
created He Him like the Incomprehensible One, who is in every Space, unique in the Plêrôma.
His sides created He after the type of the Four Gates and His two thighs after the type of
the Myriarchs who are to the right and left, and His members after the type of those who go
forth and those who enter.  He created companions surrounding Him after the type of concealed
mysteries....

[This was the Man or City that the Plêrômata beheld in the Light-Spark and saw their likenesses
therein.  They fashioned the Man called Pantomorphos in His likeness, or clothed the Light-Spark
in the Star-body.]

The Indivisible Point sent the Light-Spark without the Plêrôma, and [He] descended [as] the
Triple-Power into the Spaces of Autogènes, the Self-generated One, and [these Spaces] beheld
the grace of the Eternities of Light which had been given unto them, and they rejoiced because
that-which-is had come among them.

Then they opened the firmaments and the Light descended below to the lower regions and to those
who were without form, having no [true] likeness.  It was thus that they got the likeness of
the Light for themselves.  Some rejoiced because the Light had come to them, and that they
had been made rich thereby.  Others mourned because they were made poor and that which [they
thought] they had was taken away from them. Thus came He, who went forth full of grace, and
was taken captive with a captivity (20).  A light of glory was given to the æons who had received
the Spark, and guardian spirits were sent to them who are Gamanêl, Etrempsouchos, and Agramas,
and those who are with them.  They bring help to those who have believed in the Spark of Light.

Now in the Space of the Indivisible Atom are twelve Founts, above which are the twelve Paternities
who surround the Indivisible [Queen] like Deeps or like Skies and make for Her a crown in which
is every kind of life: all modes of Triple-powered life, of Uncontainable life, of Infinite
life, of Ineffable life, of Silent life, of Unknown life, of Solitary life, of Unshakable life,
of First-manifested life, of Self-born life, of True life.  All is therein.  Every species
is in it, all Gnôses and every power which has received the Light, yea, all Mind manifests
itself therein.  This is the Crown which the Father of the Universe has placed upon the Indivisible
[Queen] with three hundred and sixty-five kinds in it, brilliant and filling the Universe with
an incorruptible and unfailing light.  This is the Crown which crowns all dominion, the Crown
that the Deathless pray for, and by it and in it they will become Invisible Ones [in the world
beyond manifestation] on the Day of Joy, who by the Will of the Inscrutable One have from the
first been manifested, that is to say, Prôtia, Pantia, Pangenia, and their company.  Then shall
all the Invisible Eternities receive from Him their crown, so that they may cast themselves
among the Invisibles, who shall receive there their crown in the Crown of the Indivisible [Queen],
and the Universe shall receive its perfection of incorruption. Because of this it is that those
who have taken bodies pray, desiring to abandon the body that they may receive the crown laid
up for them in the Incorruptible Eternity.

This is the Indivisible [Queen and Mother], the first æon of all, who has been given all good
things by Him who is above all good things, and she has been given the Immeasurable Deep, wherein
are found innumerable Paternities, whereof is the Ennead without seal-mark and having in her
the seal-marks of all creatures, and by whom the Ennead emanates twelve Enneads.  She [the
Indivisible Mother it is] who has in the midst a Space called "The Land productive of Gods,"
or "The Land which gives birth to the Gods" (21).  This is the land of which it has been said,
"He who ploughs his soil shall be satisfied with bread and he shall make large his threshing
floor," and also, "The Master of the Field, when they shall plough it, shall possess all good
things."  And all those Powers which are in this land which brought forth the God have received
the Crown.  That is why they know, because of the Crown upon their heads, if the Inheritors
of the Kingdom of Light have [? in truth] been born from the Indivisible Body or not: that
is, from Her who is the Universal Mother (22).  She has within Her seven Wisdoms, nine Enneads,
ten Decads, and in the midst a great Basket is revealed. A mighty Invisible [Hierarch] stands
above it with a mighty Ingenerable [Hierarch] and a mighty Unbounded [Hierarch], each one triple-countenanced,
and the prayer, the blessing, and the hymn of creatures are given place in this Basket which
is in the midst of the Universal Mother, in the midst of the seven Wisdoms, in the midst of
the nine Enneads, and in the midst of the ten Decads.  For all these [creatures] stand upright
in the Basket, made perfect by the Fruit of the Æons, He who has been ordained for them by
the Alone-begotten concealed in the Indivisible [Atom].  He [the Fruit of the Æons] has a Fount
before Him surrounded by twelve Holy Ones, each one wearing a Crown on his head and having
twelve powers, who surround Him within, praising the Alone-begotten king and crying, "It is
because of Thee that we ray forth glory, and it is by Thee that we behold the Father of the
Universe, AAA, ΩΩΩ (23), and the Mother of all the good, She who is hidden in every space"--that
is to say, the contriving thought (Epinoia) of all the Eternities, the conceiving thought of
all gods and of all lords--"She is the Gnôsis of all the Unseen beings, and Thy Image is the
Mother of all the Boundless Ones, the Power of all the Infinites."

Praising the Alone-begotten, they cry, "It is because of Thy Image (24) that we have seen Thee,
that we have run to Thee, that we have clung to Thee, that we have received the Incorruptible
Crown which is known through Her.  Glory be to Thee, O Alone-begotten, for ever and ever."

Then together do they all say Amen.

For [? Jesus, the Fruit of the Æons] became a Body of Light, He crossed the Æons of the Indivisible
[Body] until He came to the Alone-begotten who is in the Monad and who dwells in Peace and
Solitude.  He received the Grace of the Alone-begotten--that is to say, His Christhood or His
Perfecting.  Also He received the Eternal Crown.  He is the Father of all Light-Sparks, the
chief of all Immortal bodies, and this is He for whose sake resurrection is given to the body (25).

But besides the Indivisible Queen and besides her Ennead without seal-mark, in which is found
all seal-marks, there are three other Enneads, of which each emanates nine Enneads.  In the
first of these is revealed a Basket round which three Fathers are gathered: an Infinite Father,
an Ineffable Father, and an Uncontainable Father.  In the middle of the second Ennead is a
Basket, and three Fathers are there: an Invisible Father, an Ingenerable Father, and an Unshakable
Father. In the third Ennead is also revealed a Basket which encloses three Paternities: a Solitary
Father, an Unknown Father, and a Triple-Powered Father.  It is through these that the Universe
has known God.  They ran towards Him and have engendered an innumerable multitude of æons,
and in each Ennead they offered myriads and myriads of praises.

In each of these Enneads there is a Monad, and in each Monad a Space called "Incorruptible":
that is to say, "Holy ground."  There is a Fount in the ground of each of these Monads, and
myriads and myriads of Powers who have received on their heads a crown of the Crown of the
Triple-Power.  In the middle of these Enneads and of these Monads is an immeasurable Deep towards
which all the Universe looks, those that are internal as well as those that are external, having
above it twelve Paternities, each surrounded by thirty Powers.

The First Paternity is a face of the Infinite One, and thirty infinite powers surround him.

The Second paternity is a face of the Invisible One and thirty invisible powers surround him.

The Third paternity is a face of the Uncontainable One, and thirty uncontainable powers surround
him.

The Fourth paternity is a face of the Invincible One and thirty invincible powers surround him.

The Fifth Paternity is a face of the All-powerful One and thirty 1ll-powerful powers surround him.

The Sixth paternity is a face of the All-Wise One and thirty all-wise powers surround him.

The Seventh paternity is a face of the Unknown One and thirty unknown powers surround him.

The Eighth paternity is a face of the Solitary One and thirty solitary powers surround him.

The Ninth paternity is a face of the Ingenerable One, and thirty ingenerable powers surround him.

The Tenth paternity is a face of the Unshakable One and thirty unshakable powers surround him.

The Eleventh Paternity is a face of the Universal Mystery, and thirty universal mysteries surround
him.

The Twelfth Paternity is a face of the Triple-Powered One, and thirty triple-powers surround him.

And in the midst of the Immeasurable Deep there are five Powers which are called by these ineffable
names:

The first is called Love, and from her comes all love.

The second is called Hope, and it is by her that we hope in the Alone-begotten, the Son of God.

The third is called Faith, and it is by her that we believe the mysteries of the Ineffable One.

The fourth is called Gnôsis, and it is by her that we know the First Father, Him because of
whom we live that we may know Him.  [Gnôsis] the Mystery of Silence, who spake before all things,
that which is hidden, the First Monad, for whom the Universe became being.  It is upon the
head of this Mystery that the three hundred and sixty-five substances form a crown like the
hair of human kind, and the Temple of the Plêrôma is as a stairway beneath her feet.  This
is the Gate of God (26).

The fifth is called Peace, and it is by her that we give Peace to all, to those within and
to those without, for it is in her that all things have been created.

This is that Abyss Immeasurable in which is found three hundred and sixty-five Paternities,
thanks to whom they have devised the year.

This is the Abyss which surrounds the Temple of the Plêrôma, where is revealed the Triple-Power
with his branches and his trees, and Mousanios and those which belong to him.  There also is
Aphrêdon and his twelve Holy Ones, and a Basket is in the midst of them.  They come to carry
in it the praises, the hymns, the prayers and supplications of the Mother of the Universe,
the Mother of the (manifested?) worlds who is called Phanerios (27), and to give them a form,
thanks to the twelve Holy Ones.  They send them into the Plêrôma of Sêtheus, by which act they
call to mind those of the external world in which there is matter.

This is the Deep where the Triple-Power rayed out the splendours of His glory, after He had
been to the Indivisible Mother and had received the Grace of the One Beyond Knowledge, by which
He had gotten such a Sonship that the Fullnesses were not able to stand upright before Him
because of the excess of His light and brilliancy thereof.  The whole Plêrôma was troubled,
the Abyss and all it contained was moved, and the [æons] fled to the world of the Mother [Phanerios],
and the Mystery ordained that the veils of the æons should be drawn until the Overseer had
established them once more.  And the Overseer established the æons once more, as it is written,
"He has established the Earth, and it shall not be moved," and again, "The Earth has been dissolved
and all that therein is" (28).

Then the Triple-Power went forth: the Son was concealed in him, and the crown of confirmation
was upon his head, making myriads and myriads of glories.  They cried, "Make straight the way
of the Lord and receive the grace of God: every æon which is empty shall be filled with the
grace of the Alone-begotten Son."

The Father holy and all-perfect stood above the Deep Immeasurable.  It is in Him that all perfection
is found, and in His fullness have we received grace.  Then the world was established; it ceased
to shake; the Father fashioned it so that it might nevermore be shaken, and the æon of the
Mother remained full of those that were in it until the ordering came from the Mystery concealed
in the First Father, He from whence came the Mystery; when His Son re-established the Universe
once more in His Gnôsis, that which re-enforms the Universe.

Then Sêtheus sent the Logos Dêmiourgos, having with him a multitude of Powers, wearing the
crowns on their heads; and their crowns darted forth rays.  The brilliancy of their bodies
is as the life of the Space into which they are come; the word that comes out of their mouths
is life Æonian, and the light that comes from their eyes is a rest for them; the movement of
their hands is their flight to the place from whence they have come, and their gazing on their
own faces is Gnôsis of their interior nature; their going towards them is their return once
more within; the stretching forth of their hands establishes them; the hearing of their ears
is the intuition in their hearts; the union of their limbs is the regathering of the dispersal
of Israel; their self-understanding is their contemplation of the Logos; the writing upon their
fingers is the number which has gone forth, even as it is written, "He counteth the number
of the Stars and calleth them all by their names."

And the whole union was made by the Logos Dêmiourgos with those who had come out of the turmoil
that had been: altogether they became one and the same body, as it has been written, "They
have all become one and the same body in this One and Only One."  Then this Logos Dêmiourgos
became a mighty God, Lord, Saviour, Christ, King, the Good, Father, Mother.  This is He whose
work was good: He was glorified and became Father to those that believed: He became Law in
Aphrêdonia and mighty.

Then went forth Pandêlos [All-manifest]; she had a crown on her head, and she placed it upon
them who had believed (29).

The Power of the Æons [? the Indivisible Queen, the Mother within the Plêrôma] ordered the
Hierarchy of the World of the Virgin Mother [Phaneia, the Mother without the Plêrôma, she who
brings into manifestation] according to the Order of the Inner Space.  She placed in it the
Light-Spark after the pattern of the Monad and placed therein the concealment which surrounds
Him.  She ordained the Propatôr after the Order of the Indivisible Body and the twelve Holy
Ones which surround it, having crowns on their heads and seals of glory in their right hands,
after the type found in the Indivisible Point.  In the midst of these is Love; a face of the
Triple-Power is in the Fount, and there is a Basket which twelve Paternities surround, in whom
a Sonship is concealed.

She ordained the Autopatôr according to the order of the Ennead without seal-mark and gave
him authority over all that is only self-fathered, and gave him a crown of all-glory and love,
and Peace, Truth, and myriads of powers, so that he might gather together those who had been
dispersed by the troubling which had taken place when the [Light Spark] went forth with joy.
As for the Prince of the Universe, he who has the triple-power to make alive and to destroy,
she ordained the Son Prôtogennêtôr after the order of the Triple-Power.  She gave him a ninefold
Ennead and five tenfold Decads, and that he might have power to accomplish the warfare imposed
upon him, she gave him the first-fruits of the Sonship concealed in her that he might be able
to become a Triple-Power.  He received the Vow of the Sonship because the Universe (30) had
been sold [? into slavery], and took upon him the warfare entrusted to him and made arise all
that was pure in matter.  A world made he, an æon, a town; the world which is called "Incorruptibility"
and "Jerusalem."  It is also called "The New Earth," and "Self-Perfect," and "Without King."
This earth is an earth that brings forth gods, a life-giving earth indeed.  This is the earth
that the Mother (? Phaneia) asked to have established.  That is why she (? the Mother Above)
has placed orders or hierarchy in this earth and has placed in it Providence and Love.  This
is the earth of which it has been written, "The earth which drank the rain a multitude of times":
that is to say, which has multiplied the light in her multitudes and multitudes of times, since
the (light) went forth until its return; that is to say, it is that from which the Man is named
"Sensible."  He is fashioned, He has been created according to the type of this earth, He who
has been saved from His Self dispersion by the Prôtogennêtôr (31).  Because of that, the Father
of all those of the Universe, He who has no [bridal] bed has sent [Him,? the Man] a crown bearing
the names of all those of the Universe, whether Infinite or Ineffable, or Uncontainable, or
Incorruptible, or Unknown, or Solitary, or All-powerful, or Indivisible.  This is the crown
of which it is written, "They gave it unto Solomon on the day of his exultation of heart."

The First Monad sent Him [the Man] an ineffable vesture which is all Light, all Life, all Love,
all Hope, all Faith, all Wisdom, all Gnôsis, all Truth, all Peace, all Witness, all Universal
Mother, all Universal Mystery, all Fount, all Universal Perfection, all Invisible, all Unknown,
all Infinite, all Ineffable, all Abyss, all Uncontainable, all Fullness, all Silence, all Unshakable,
all Unengendered, all Universal Solitary, all Monad, all Ennead, all Dodecad, all Ogdoad, all
Decad, all Hebdomad, all Hexad, all Pentad, all Tetrad, all Triad, all Dyad, all Monad.  The
whole Universe is in it, and the Universe has found itself therein and knows itself therein
(29).  It gave light to all in its ineffable light, and it was given myriads and myriads of
powers, so that the Universe might be established once and for all.  It gathered together its
skirts and gave them the form of a veil which surrounded it [the Universe] on every side. 
It poured itself over all things, raised them up and divided them according to the Hierarchies,
according to the orders, and according to Providence.  Then that-which-was separated itself
from that-which-was-not, and that-which-was-not was the evil manifested in matter; and the
Robe of Power severed that-which-was from that-which-was-not.  That-which-was it called Æonian,
and that-which-was-not it called Hyle (matter).  It separated by the Midst that-which-was from
that-which-was-not, and placed veils between these twain.  It placed purifying powers, so that
they might purge them and make them clean.  It gave in this manner an order to that-which-is
and made of the Mother the chief.  It gave it ten æons, and each æon has a myriad powers; there
is also a Monad and an Ennead in each æon.

The [Robe of Power] placed in her [? Phaneia] an Universal Motherhood and therewith a Power
that had hitherto been concealed therein, so that none knew thereof.  [? The Robe] placed a
great Basket, above which stand three Powers, an Ingenerable One, an Unshakable One, and the
Great Pure One.  It gave to [? the world order] the twelve other Powers who have received the
crown and who surround it.  It gave it also the Seven Stratelatai (32), who have the seal of
the All-completing [Panteleios], and have on their heads crowns in which there are twelve stones
of Adamant, which come from Adam, the Man of Light.

[The Robe of Power] established the Propatôr in all the æons of the Mother of [the Manifestation]
of all things, and gave him the full power of Paternity, and Powers to obey him as Father and
as First Father of all that exists.  It placed upon his head a crown of twelve kinds; it gave
him a Power which is Triple-powered and All-powered; it gave him Sonship and myriads and myriads
of Glories.  It turned the Plêrôma towards him and gave him power to make live and to destroy.
It gave him a power of the æon so that he might manifest it, with the myriads and myriads of
out-rayed Glories, like the other æons that were with him.  The Power which has been given
to the Propatôr is called Prôtophanes, because he is the first to be manifested, and Agennêtos,
because no one has engendered him.  Also Ineffable and "Without Name" is he called, and also
Autogênes and Autotheletos, because he has manifested himself by his own will.  Yet again is
he named Autoloxastos, for he manifested himself with the Glories that were his. Yet again
is he termed Invisible, for he is hidden and none can see him.

Now [the Robe of Power] gave unto the Propatôr another Power, that which since the beginning
has caused the Light-Spark to appear in this Space, and who is named with names Holy and All-perfecting.
Who is Prôtia, that is to say, the First, and is also called Pantia--she who is found in all--and
Pangenia--she who has brought forth all in the world--and Loxogenia--she who has brought Glory
to birth--and Loxophania--Manifester of Glory--and Loxokrateia--she who has dominion over Glory--and
Arsenogenia--she who brings forth males--and Lôia--of which the interpretation is God with
us--and Jouêl--of which the interpretation is God for ever--she it is who has ordained that
these Powers should appear whose name is called Phaneia, of which the translation is Manifestation.
The angel who has appeared with them is he whom the Glories name Loxogenes and Loxophanes,
of which the interpretation is "He who engenders Glory" and "He who manifests Glory," for he
is one of those Glories who stand about that mighty power called Loxokrator, because in his
manifestation he has had dominion over the great Glories.

Such are the Powers that were given to the Propatôr when he was placed in the æon of the Mother,
and myriads and myriads of Glories, Angels, Archangels, and Liturgies were bestowed upon him,
so that they might serve him, those of matter.  They gave him power over everything.  He made
for himself a mighty æon and placed therein a mighty Plêrôma and a great temple and all the
Powers that he had taken and placed within himself, and he rejoiced with them, bringing forth
his creatures again according to the commandment of the Father hidden in the Silence, Who had
sent him these riches; and the Crown of Fatherhood was given to him because he had been made
the Father of all those who came after him. Then he cried out and said, "My children, with
whom I travail again until Christ be formed in you"; and again he cried, "Yea, I would set
beside a holy virgin an only husband, Christ."

But when he had seen the Grace that the Father in secret had given unto him (that is Himself
a Propatôr), he wished to turn the Universe to the Father in secret, for it is His will that
the Universe should turn to Him.  And when the Mother saw all the grandeurs which had been
given unto her Propatôr, she rejoiced greatly, she exulted; that is why she said, "My heart
has rejoiced and my tongue has been in exultation." Then she cried to the Power Infinite who
stands hard by the æon of the Father, that mighty Power of Glory that the Glories call Trigenielos
(33), that is to say, Three Engendered, and who is named also Trigenes and also Harmes.  She
prayed also unto Him who is concealed in every Space that He would send him the Mother of Him
who has withdrawn Himself.  The Father in secret sent him the Mystery who reclothes all the
æons like the Glories who form the Crown Panteles, that is to say, of Perfection, so that he
[the Propatôr] might place the Crown upon the head of the Indivisible [Body] hidden within
her, Incorruptible and Unengendered.  With [her He sent] the mighty Power which is in her company,
she who is called Arsenogenia, who replenishes all the æons of Glory.  Thus from him shall
the Universe receive the Crown.

Then she established the Autopatôr Father and Æonian One; and gave unto him the æon of the
Concealed One in which are found all things, such as species, faces, images, forms, questions,
dissemblances, and changes, that which counts and that which is counted, that which thinks
and that which is thought.  She made a vesture thereof over all which is in him, so that he
might give to him who asked him.  She gave unto him ten Powers, and nine Enneads, five Æons,
and she gave unto him Light; and that gave him power over all secret things, so that he might
show mercy to those who had fought, who had towards the æon fled from matter, leaving it behind
them.  They have fled to the æon of the Autopatôr; they have made their own the promise which
has been promised by Him who said, "He who forsakes father, mother, brother, sister, wife,
children, and riches, and takes up his cross and follows Me, shall receive the promises that
I have promised unto him, and I will give unto them the Mystery of the Father in Secret, because
they have loved that which was truly theirs and have fled from him who pursues them with injustice."
And he [Autopatôr] gave them Glory, Joy, Exaltation, Jubilation, Peace, Hope, Faith, Love,
and the Truth which changes not.  This is the Ennead with which he rewarded those that fled
from matter; they became happy, they became perfect, they knew God and the Truth, they comprehended
the Mystery which works in the Man; for what cause He has revealed Himself, that they might
see Him, for He is in truth Invisible; and for their sakes He has revealed in words His Logos,
so that they might know Him and become gods and perfect.

When the Mother established the Prôtogennêtôr as her son, she gave unto him the Power of the
Sonship; she gave unto him armies of Angels and Archangels; she gave unto him twelve Powers
who served him; she gave unto him a robe to consummate all things in him, for in it is revealed
every kind of body: the body of fire, the body of water, the body of air [? spirit], the body
of earth, the body of wind, the body angelic, the body archangelic, the body of Powers, the
body of Dominions, the body of Gods, the body of Lords--in a word, every kind of body, so that
nothing might hinder him from mounting into the heights or descending into the depths of Noun.
This is the Prôtogennêtôr to whom those of the internal and external Spaces have promised all
things that please him, and it is he who separates all matter; for he brooded over it like
a bird who stretches her wings over her eggs.  Even thus did the Prôtogennêtôr unto matter,
and made myriads and myriads of species and kinds come forth.  When Matter was warmed she produced
the multitudes of Powers that were in her, and he separated them into species and kinds.  He
gave them a law to love one another, to honour God and to praise Him, and to seek for Him,
who He is and what He is, and to wonder at the place from whence they had come forth, so narrow
and so sad, and not to return thither again, but to follow him who had given them a law and
made them come out of the darkness; of Matter, their Mother.  He had said to them, "Let there
be light."  For they did not know if there were such a thing as light or not.  Then he gave
them the command not to hurt one another, and left them to go to the Space of the Mother of
the Universe beside the Propatôr and the Autopatôr, so that together they might draw up those
who had come forth from matter.

Then the Mother of the Universe (34), the Propatôr, the Autopatôr, the Prôtogennêtôr, and the
Powers of the æon of the Mother sang a great hymn to the One and Only God, praising Him and saying:

"Thou alone art Boundless, Thou only art the Deep, Thou only art the Incomprehensible One,
for Thou art He whom all beings seek and [without Thy grace] find Thee not, for none can know
Thee against Thy will, and none can praise Thee against Thy will.  For Thy will only is a Space
for Thee, for nothing can contain Thee who art the Space for all.  Thee I pray that Thou mayest
give an holy ordering to those of the World, that Thou mayest dispose my offspring according
to Thy will.  Grieve not my offspring, for never has anything been grieved by Thee; yet no
one knows Thy Counsel.  Of Thee all beings of the Inner and the Outer Worlds have need, Thou
only Incomprehensible, Thou only beyond All vision, beyond All mind.  Thou only hast given
character to all creatures and hast manifested them in Thyself.  Of that which is not yet manifested
art Thou the Creator, and Thou alone dost know these things, for we know them not [of ourselves].
Thou alone revealest them unto us [through Symbols and Images], so that we may supplicate Thee
on their behalf, so that Thou mayest make them manifest, and we may know them [as they are
in themselves apart from all Symbols] by Thy Grace alone.  Thou alone hast raised up the Secret
Worlds to Thyself, so that they might know Thee, for Thou hast given unto them the boon of
knowing Thee, for Thou hast given birth unto them from Thy Incorporeal Body and hast taught
them that from Thy Self-productive Mind Thou hast the Man brought forth in Contemplation and
in a perfect Concept, yea, even the Man brought forth by Mind to whom Contemplation has given
a form.  Thou it is who hast bestowed all good things upon the Man, and He weareth them like
vestures.  He putteth them on like garments and wrappeth Himself with Creation as with a robe
(35).  This Man is He whom all the Universe yearneth to know, for Thou alone it is who hast
ordained unto the Man to manifest Himself, so that in Him Thou mightest be known and that all
might learn that it is Thou who hast brought Him forth and that Thou art manifested according
to Thy Will.

"Thee do I invoke, and I pray Thee, O Father of all Fatherhood, Lord of all Lords, to give
an holy ordering unto my kinds and to my offspring, that I may rejoice in Thy Name and in Thy
goodness, O Thou Sole King, O Thou who changest not.  Bestow upon me from Thy goodness, and
I will make known unto my children that Thou art their Saviour" (36).

When the Mother had finished praying to the Boundless One Beyond Knowledge, who fills the whole
Universe and gives life unto all, He heard her and those with her, for all of them were His
own, and He sent unto her a Power who came forth from the Man whom they desired to behold.

From Being Unbounded came forth the Infinite Spark of Light, at whom all the æons wondered,
asking themselves where He had been concealed before manifesting Himself from the Infinite
Father, He from whom the Universe was manifested and who was latent therein.  The Powers of
the Secret Worlds followed Him when they were manifested and came into the Temple of the Plêrôma.
He hid Himself amidst the Powers who came forth from the Father in Secret (37).  He made a
world and bore it into the Temple.  Then the Powers of the Plêrôma beheld Him and loved Him
and praised Him in hymns ineffable, unspeakable to tongues of mortal flesh, and good to dream
of in the heart of man.  He received their hymn and made a veil surrounding their world like
a wall; then went He to the borders of the Universal Mother [without] and stood above the Universal
Æon (38).  The Universe was moved at the presence of the Lord of the whole Earth; the Æon was
troubled and in suspense because it had seen that which it knew not.  The King of Glory was
seated, He divided matter into two halves and into two parts (39).  He fixed the borders of
each part and taught them that they came from One Father and from One Mother.  To those who
ran unto Him and adored Him He gave the place at the right hand, and gave them Life for ever
and ever and Immortality.  He named the place on the right "The Land of Life," and the place
on the left "The Land of Death"; He named the Earth on the right "The Earth of Light," and
the Earth on the left "The Earth of Darkness"; He named the Earth on the right "The Earth of
Repose," and the Earth on the left "The Earth of Sorrow."  He placed boundaries between them
and veils, so that they might not see each other; He gave many Glories to those who had adored
Him and gave them dominion over those who had resisted and opposed Him.  He extended the World
of the Right into many places and placed them [who followed Him] in each hierarchy, in each
æon, in each world, in each heaven, in each firmament, in many heavens, in each region, in
each space, in each receptacle.  He gave them [who had followed Him] laws and delivered unto
them commandments, saying, "Keep My sayings and I will give unto you eternal life; I will send
Powers unto you, yea, I will strengthen you with mighty spirits, and will give unto you the
dominion of your desire: no one shall hinder your will, and you shall bring forth æons, worlds,
and heavens.  When the intellectual spirits come to dwell in you then shall ye become gods,
then shall ye know that ye came forth from God, and then shall ye behold Him within yourselves,
in your eternities shall He dwell."

These words spake the Lord of the Universe unto them; then He withdrew Himself from them and
hid Himself from them.  And those who had been the births of matter rejoiced that their thought
had been accomplished; they rejoiced because they had come forth from the narrow and the sad.
They prayed unto the Hidden Mystery, saying, "Give us power to create æons and worlds according
to the word which Thou hast sworn unto Thy servants, for Thou alone art He who changest not,
Thou alone art the Infinite and Boundless One, Thou only art unengendered, born of Thyself,
Self-Father, Thou only art Unmoved and Unknowable, Thou only Silence art and Love and Fount
of the Universe, Thou only art immaterial and hast no stain, ineffable in Thy generation and
inconceivable in Thy manifestation.  Hear us, then, O Father Incorruptible, Father Immortal,
God of Hidden Beings, sole Light and Life, Alone beyond Vision, only Unspeakable, only Unstainable,
only [Foundation] stone of Adamant (40), sole Primal Being, for before Thee nothing was.  Hearken
unto this prayer which we make unto Him who is concealed in every place.  Hear us, send unto
us incorporeal spirits that they may dwell with us and teach us that which Thou hast promised
unto us; that they may dwell in us and that we may become bodies for them, for it is Thy will
that it should thus be.  So may it be.  Give law unto our work and strengthen it according
to Thy will and according to the order of the hidden æons; dispose us according to Thy will,
for we are Thine" (41).

And He heard them and sent unto them discerning Powers which knew the order of those who are
hidden.  He established the Hierarchy like the Hierarchies above and according to the concealed
order.  They began from the base to the summit, so that the building might unite them to their
companions.  He created the aerial earth as a place of habitation for those who had come forth,
so that they might dwell therein until the strengthening of those who are below them; then
created He the true habitation in the interior of that, the place of repentance in the interior
of that, the antitype of Aerodios; then the place of repentance in the interior of that, the
antitype of Autogênes: in this place they baptise themselves in the name of Autogênes, who
is God over them, and there are Powers placed in this place over the Fount of the Waters of
Life which they make go forth.  These are the names of the Powers who are over the Waters of
Life: Michar and Micheu; and they baptise in the name of Barpharanges.  In the interior of
these Spaces are the æons of Sophia; in the interior of these Spaces is the True Truth, and
Pistis Sophia is found there and also the pre-existent Jesus the Living, Aerodios and his twelve
æons.  There are placed in this space Sellaô, Eleinos, Zogenethêles, Selmelche, and the Autogênes
of the æons.  There are placed in him four lights: Èlêlthêth, Daueithe, Ôroiaêl ... (42). 
He saith (43):

O Alone-begotten of Light, I praise Thee.

O Light unengendered, I praise Thee.

O Light self-begotten, I praise Thee.

O Forefather of Light, more excellent than every Forefather, I praise Thee.

O Light Invisible, who art before all those beyond vision, I praise Thee.

O Thought of Light surpassing all Thought, I praise Thee.

O God of Light above all gods, I praise thee.

O Gnôsis of Light passing all knowledge, I praise Thee.

O Unknowable One of Light, who art beyond all that is unknown, I praise Thee.

O Hermit of the Light, who art above all solitaries, I praise Thee.

O All-mighty of the Light, more excellent than the all-powered ones, I praise Thee.

O Thou Thrice-mighty of the Light, greater than them of Triple-might, I praise Thee.

O Light that none can separate, for Thou dividest all light, I praise Thee.

O Thou Pure Light, surpassing all purity, I praise Thee.

O Thou who hast begotten [Thyself] in the absence of all generation, Whom none has engendered,
I praise Thee.

O Fount of the Universality of Æons, I praise Thee.

O True Self-born of Light, who art before all those self-born, I praise Thee.

O Thou True Unmoved One of Light, who by Thy Will movest all things, I praise Thee.

O Silence of all things, Silence of Light, I praise Thee.

O Saviour of all things, Saviour of Light, I praise Thee.

O Thou Unconquerable One of Light, I praise Thee.

O Thou Sole Space of all the places of the Universe, I praise Thee.

O Thou Only Universal Mystery, I praise thee.

O Thou Only All-perfect Light, I praise Thee.

O Thou Only Wise One and Sole Wisdom, I praise Thee.

O Thou Only Intangible, I praise Thee.

O Thou True Goodness, who hast made appear all good things, I praise Thee.

O Thou True Light, who hast made all lights to shine, I praise Thee.

O Thou who sustainest all light and givest life to every soul, I praise Thee.

O Thou Repose of them [? who seek repose], I praise Thee.

O Thou [Father] of all Paternity from the beginning unto this day, I praise Thee.

They [? Thy children] search for Thee because Thou art their [Father]. Hear the prayer of [Thy
children], for [Thou art He who is hidden] in every place, He who is the [Desire] of all hearts.

[1] The title and the opening part of the work are lost.

NOTES

(1) The centre of the Universe, which is everywhere and nowhere; the ideal unity in diversity,
from which all things flow out and into which all things return.  Just as Jerusalem was held
to be the centre of the earth, so was this "City" held to be the hidden centre of the Universe;
hence it is often named "Jerusalem Above, who is the Mother of us all." It is the principle
at once of universality and individuality, the real "ground" or centre of the soul.  It is
called the "House of the Father" because it is the abiding place of the Presence; the "Robe
of the Son" because it is His Body of Manifestation (cp. 2 Clem. xiv.); the "Power of the Mother"
because it is the "Energy" by which man is reborn into Divine consciousness; and the "Image
or Archetype of the Plêrôma" (the World of Eternal Ideas in their "Fullness"), because it is
the Wisdom which is the basis of all consciousness.

(2) This term rather suggests the use of a vibratory formula to induce certain interior states
as a practice of the School to which the Greek MS. belonged.  Perhaps this may have been ÏAÔ,
the meaning of which is given elsewhere as "I, because the All (or Plêrôma) hath gone forth.
A, because it will turn itself back again.  Ô, because the consummation of all consummations
will take place."  This may be taken to mean exoterically, "Ï, the Incarnation of Jesus, Who
is the Plêrôma.  A, the Crucifixion.  Ô, the Ascension."  Taken esoterically, it may mean,
"Ï, the Soul, has come forth from God into generation.  A, it is started or "Initiated" on
its return journey through the Life of the Cross.  Ô, there is union with God in the Eternity
of Eternities as the consummation of all things" (cp. note 18).  The work we are studying might
almost be considered an exposition of this formula, though I do not suggest that it literally
is so.  We begin by reading it from right to left, beginning with the God "beyond Name," that
is He whose being cannot be expressed by any name, Ô.  We pass to the Logos, the Divine Mind,
He who can be named, and His Plêrôma, A, from which is "started" the Visible World by the going
forth of the "Light-Spark" or "Man," Ï. After this we read from left to right, but this is
the expounding of the mystical life, the "return," under a veil of symbolism.  ÏAÔ is the great
Name of God in three vowels, derived historically, no doubt, from the Great Name in Judaism,
and is the counterpart of the Indian AUM. Probably, like this latter, it was pronounced in
three ways: (1) audibly; (2) inaudibly to others, but with the lips; (3) mentally.  It was
a formula of a sacramental kind by which the life of the disciple was mystically identified
with the Life of the Master, so that the knowledge of the real nature of the soul is given
or restored by God. During its use the mind was, of course, concentrated on its inner meanings.
Various aspects of mystical truth could be expressed by its permutations; ÏAÔ, ÔAÏ, AÔÏ, etc.

(3) Cp. Odes of Solomon, 27: "I stretched out my hands and worshipped the Lord, for the extension
of my hands is His sign, and my expansion is the Upright Tree [or Pillar]."

The Cross of Calvary was taken, by the Gnôstics, to be the outward and visible sign of a concealed
or Cosmic Cross, another aspect of the "City" or Monad, upon which the Logos or Light-Spark,
as the "Son of Man," or the "Man," was crucified perpetually in an ineffable manner, thus communicating
His Life and Light to the Universe.  The substance or "strain" of this Cross is symbolised
here by the Ennead or Ninefold Being, the members of which, Knowledge, Life, Hope, etc., are
each in themselves Ideal Beings, Eternities, or Gods.  Yet these Nine, a number typical of
Initiation, are also one, as the Master and the Cross are also one.  The Mystery is that of
an Unbloody Sacrifice once and perpetually offered and also of Divine Espousal.  [See further
the "Hymn of Jesus" and the "Gnôstic Crucifixion" texts and commentaries by G. R. S. Mead,
who renders the passage in the text by "The Source of the Cross is the Man whom no man can
comprehend."]

(4) "Twelve" seems to symbolise the Powers creative of all kinds of life in their totality,
the creative imagination or raying forth power.

(5) "Truth" is another name for the Bride of the Logos, His "Great Surround" or Body.  It is
the Divine Concept or Conceiving Thought of the Cosmos and its processes, and hence it is also
the seal of perfection or Body of Glory, the Life with which the Risen and Ascended Master
is clad.  While conferring character on all things, it is entirely transcendent, modeless,
and "un-walled."  Through it God is immanent in the Universe, hence it is also called "Mother."
This is what the symbolism seems to imply.

(6) This implies the doctrine of the Macrocosm and the Microcosm, of the Universe and of the
individual soul as a perfect compendium thereof.  All the great cosmic processes are to be
found within the soul.

(7) A "name" was held to be that which manifests the innermost essence of a thing.  Hence it
symbolised the spiritual body or ideal vehicle of manifestation, the life clothing.  The bestowal
of a new name is therefore the sacramental sign of the gift of a new body or mode of life.
The real and ineffable Name of God is the Concept or Conceiving Thought referred to in note
5.  But this is the Name "Mother" or "Bride" of the Logos, Providence.  To "name" was a sacramental
way of invoking a presence or "spiritual vehicle."

(8) Cp. Codex Akhmim: "Of Him it is said, He thinketh His Image alone and beholdeth it in the
Water of Pure Light which surroundeth Him.  And His Thought energised and revealed herself,
and stood before Him in the Light-Spark--which is the Power which existed before the All--which
is the perfect Forethought of the All--the Barbêlô, the Æon perfect in glory--glorifying Him,
because she hath manifested herself in Him and thinketh Him (i.e. gives Him birth).  She is
the first Thought, His Image."  Barbêlô seems to mean "In the Four is God": in other words,
it is the personified Tetragrammaton or Great Name commonly rendered by Jehovah.

(9) Kanoun.  This is a flat, broad basket, originally made of rush or cane, but often manufactured
in precious metals in later times.  It was used in the sacrificial rites of the gods and was
hence classed among sacred things (v. "Basket" in Hastings' Ency. of Rel. and Ethics). What
it signifies exactly I am unable to say.  Possibly the rites of the school, if we only knew
them, would throw some light upon the question.  The offerings of bread and wine at the Eucharist
may have been made in the Kanoun.  Sometimes in the MS. it seems to be connected with prayer.

(10) The Temple of the Plêrômata or Fullnesses seems to be pictured as being in the manner
of that in Jerusalem.  The Æons of the Inner Space correspond to the Holy of Holies, the Æons
of the Middle Space to the Holy Place, and the Æons of the Outer Space to the Court.  The various
Æons and their powers now described seem to be those of the Inner Space.  "Æon" and "Space"
are practically equivalent terms, only Æon is on the Mind or Spiritual side of things, Space
or Extension (Topos) is on the Life or Body side of things.  "Space" is purely the space of
mind.  It is a Spiritual Body with many members, each of which is a god, having his own individual
consciousness and being, and yet partaking perfectly and wholly of a common consciousness or
life.  Each Æon is a mighty Hierarchy in himself, and his "topos" is a Church or Holy Assembly.
The ideal union of these Spaces is in the Monad or Indivisible Point, which is therefore the
Church of Churches, the Body of the Man whom no man can comprehend.

(11) Sêtheus and the twelve three-faced Paternities seem to be the paradigms, or heavenly patterns,
of the Sun, the signs of the Zodiac, and the thirty-six Decans.  He is the Invisible Sun of
Righteousness behind the visible flame which measures time.  In other words, he is the symbol
of the Æon of Æons, the Æon par excellence.  What time is to the ordinary mundane mind that
Sêtheus is to the Alone-begotten and the Monad, whose ineffable union he encompasses.  For
he is the manifested Sun of Eternity, ☉. The Monad is the Indivisible Point within the circle
or sphere, and the Light-Spark or Logos is within the Point, while Sêtheus himself is, strictly
speaking, the circle or sphere, the well-known symbol of Eternity.  All the æons are found
in the "topos" of Sêtheus, as their divinity is not innate, but comes from conscious participation,
hence the name æon.  I suggest the name "Sêtheus" is formed from that of the god Seth, who
was a solar deity in some Egyptian traditions.  No doubt the differentiation of the name is
intentional.

The twelve Paternities about the head are referable to the rays, to the creative powers, the
"Divine Imaginings" of the Mystic Sun in their totality.

(12) Schmidt thinks that the name "Nicotheos"--"the Victor God"--is a title of Christ, and
that a quotation is given from some lost Apocalypse, called, perhaps, "The Apocalypse of Nicotheos."
The whole passage seems to be a definite appeal to the experiences of attained mystics concerning
the Dark Ray.  The "Perfect" was a technical name, applied to those whose initiation or start
had been consummated or perfected.  Having been regenerated, they were "gods" or "æons," conscious
of their kinship with the Plêrômata.  Each was now a hierarchy in himself, a race, as it were.
The passage is probably by a later hand.

(13) Cp. Pseudo Dionysius Myst. Theol.:

"The super-unknown, the super-luminous and loftiest height wherein the simple and absolute
and unchangeable mysteries are cloaked in the super-lucent darkness of hidden mystic silence,
which super-shines most super-brightly in the blackest night, and in the altogether intangible
and unseen, superfills the eyeless understanding with super-beautiful brightnesses.  And thou,
dear Timothy, in thy intent and practice of the mystical contemplations, leave behind both
thy senses and thy intellectual operations, and all things known by sense and intellect, and
set thyself, as far as may be, to unite thyself in unknowing with Him who is above all being
and knowledge; for by being purely free and absolute, out of self and all things, thou shalt
be led up to the Ray of the Divine Darkness, stripped and loosed of all."

The above version is by Dom John Chapman, O.S.B., who says that this passage was "cited throughout
the Middle Ages as the locus classicus for method of contemplation."  This is, except for our
text, the earliest mention of the "Dark Ray" in literature.  Evidently Pseudo Dionysius did
not invent the term himself, but followed a much older Christian tradition.  This fact is important
for the history of Christian mysticism.

(14) This seems to imply a doctrine of pre-existence.  Perhaps the passage is related to John
17:16: "They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world....  As Thou didst send Me
into the world, even so sent I them into the world."

(15) Cp. Psalm 68:17 (R.V.): "The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands upon
thousands.  The Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the sanctuary."

(16) Further descriptions of this, "the oldest of the Æons," are given later on.  From these
it will be gathered that the crown is the Crown of Life, and that the twelve gates are also
twelve deeps or firmaments, over each of which a Paternity presides.  She is called the Indivisible
One, either "Point," "Atom," or perhaps even "Body" or "Raiment."  As she is both the Spouse
and Mother of the Light-Spark within the Æon, I have generally called her the Indivisible Queen.

(17) Mr Mead suggests that Phôsilampes may be a mystery name of Basilides.  Has a commentary
on the Gospel of St John been used here, or a commentary on the prologue by Basilides [containing
perhaps the teachings of the alleged instructor of Basilides, Glaucias, whose name, rather
suggesting the "shining one," may equal "Phôsilampes"], which interpreted "In the beginning"
as meaning "In the First Concept or in the Monad was the Word"?

(18) This repetition of the Seven Vowels gives the following meanings to them:--AAA = Living
of Living Ones, HHH = Holy of Holy Ones, EEE = Being of Beings, III = Father of Fatherhoods,
OOO = God of Gods, YYY=Lord of Lords, ΩΩΩ = Space of Spaces or Æon of Æons.  The High and Holy
One, together with His Bride and Mother, the "Universal Church or First Concept," are one in
and with the Eternity that they inhabit. Hence "Thou art the House and the Dweller in the House."
Time (Æon) and Space (Topos) are here one, or different aspects of the same mode of being.

(19) Cp. "The Mind unto Hermes," 16: "The Cosmos is all-formed [Pantomorphos]--not having forms
external to itself, but changing them, itself within itself"; also the "Perfect Sermon," xix.
3: "The thirty-six, who have the name of Horoscopes, are in the self-same space as the fixed
stars; of these the essence chief or Prince is he whom they call Pantomorph and Omniform, who
fashioneth the various forms for various species."  The Pantomorphic Body is the Augoeidês
or Astroeidês, the ray-like or star-like glory (not to be confused with the "astral body" of
modern theosophy).  Cp. Origen, Ep. 38 ad Pammach: "Another body, a spiritual and aetherial
one, is promised us: a body that is not subject to physical touch, nor seen by physical eyes,
nor burdened with weight, and which shall be metamorphosed according to the variety of regions
in which it shall be....  In that spiritual body the whole of us will see, the whole hear,
the whole serve as hands, the whole as feet."  The Star-body is the body of Resurrection and
Ascension.  Cp. Mark 16:12: "He was manifested in another form unto two of them."  Also it
was the body of "the universal" descent, that which transmitted the Æons from the Plêrôma or
Ideal World to the Sensible World, hence it was considered to be "scattered" or in a state
of latency, or of mystical death in normal man.  To awaken it, to gather it together, or to
"raise it from the dead," was one of the first objects of the mystics, who followed the way
of the Gnôsis.  Its partial resurgence was the first great step in the processes of the Apotheosis.
It was the possession of this body, in some degree, which distinguished a man as "spiritual"
from the psychic and "hylic" men.  The Astroeidês included the "natural" body in its consummation,
under a great transmutation, for it was the "Wisdom" at the basis of material nature.

I have transferred the account of the "City of the Man" from where it stands, at the end of
the MS., to this place, as it seems more intelligible here, and the exact order has been obscured
by the confusion of the leaves.

(20) Cp. "Poemandres," 15: "He [the Man], beholding the form like to himself existing in her,
in her water, loved it and willed to live in it: and with the will came act, and so he vivified
the form devoid of reason.  And Nature took the object of her love and wound herself completely
round him, and they were intermingled, for they were lovers....  Thus, though above the Harmony
(or Fate sphere), within the Harmony he [The Man] hath become a slave, ... and though he is
sleepless from a sleepless Sire, yet is he overcome by sleep."

This is the Mystery of the concealment of God in Nature, a mystery that was sometimes presented
under the symbol of a self-scattering, sometimes under the symbol of a magical sleep, or mystic
death.

(21) "The Earth that brought forth the God" is the "ground of the individual soul," and is
also the Sanctum Sanctorum of the Universe, the Hidden Sanctuary where the "Man" is raised
from mystical death or is reborn.  No doubt the symbolism is drawn from Egyptian sources.

(22) This passage might be paraphrased, "Those who have received Life and Light in the Concealed
Sanctuary of the Soul know, through this Crown of Perfection, that the Inheritors of the Kingdom
of Light are indeed reborn from the Indivisible Body, who is the Mother of us all.

(23) AAA ΩΩΩ = The Living Space of Spaces, Æon of Æons.  See note 18 and cp. Rev. 1:8, 17-18:
"I am Alpha and Omega ... the First and the Last, and the Living One; and I was dead, and,
behold, I am alive unto the æon of æons."

(24) The Body of Christ, which in its transcendental aspect is also His Bride and Mother. 
Cp. 2 Clem. xiv.: "I do not suppose that you know not that the living Church is the body of
Christ; for the scripture saith, 'God made Man, male and female; the male is Christ, the female
the Church; and the books and the Apostles belong not to the Church that now is, but to the
Church which is from above.  For it is spiritual, as is our Jesus, but is manifested in these
last days to save us.  But the Church, being spiritual, is manifested in the flesh of Christ....
Great is the Life and Immortality which this flesh can partake of--that is, of the Holy Spirit
which is joined to it--nor can any declare or utter what the Lord has prepared for His chosen.'"

(25) This extremely interesting and important passage is also one of great difficulty, for
it is full of technical terms and allusions which would need a small treatise to elucidate
properly.  For example, it seems to imply the doctrine of two Logoi that Clement of Alexandria
was accused of teaching, and which is found in certain Hellenistic writings.  The "Body of
Light" is the Astroeidês in which the "Adept" can cross the "Fate-Sphere," the "Midst," the
regions of consciousness where mechanical cause and effect prevail and contact the Plêrôma,
or Universe of Divine Freedom and Fullness.  "Charis" or "Grace" is the name of the Bride or
Body of the Logos, and the use of it here symbolises a "raiment" or "Body" still more exalted
than the Astroeidês.  It is the Body beyond the Stars, the Monadic Robe or "Robe of Glory,"
into which the "Star-like Body" was transformed at the Horos, Limit or Boundary of the Worlds
of Difference and of Sameness. What kind of Peace was that in which the Alone-begotten dwelt
in the Monad?  A Peace most truly given to those within and those without, for in it all things
were created.  To realise what is meant we must remember that "Charis" and "Resurrection" were
names of "Staurus," the Pillar that made with Horos the Great Cross referred to more than once.
"Peace," then, was the state of the Logos in Mystic crucifixion, the Peace of God which established,
reconciled, justified all things. Hence it can be inferred what transformation the Star Body
had to undergo to become the Robe of Glory.  The Cross and the Master were one.  The Cross
of Calvary was to the Gnôstic Teacher the outer and efficacious sign of this Mystery or Sacrament.
So also the Pentecostal outpouring recorded in Acts was the outward sign, or sacramental token,
of the assumption by the Master of the Robe of Glory, the vesture of the Monad or Transcendental
and Universal Church, which could not be assumed here.  From thenceforth the band of disciples
became a Church, the Mystic Body of Christ, the outward sign of concealed mysteries; and it
will be seen in what manner Jesus was the Father of all Light-Sparks and gave resurrection
to the body.  Such was the teaching of the Gnôsis.  To make the matter clear to readers interested
in mysticism, but unfamiliar with Hellenistic technical terms, it may be said that the "Bodies"
so often referred to may be taken as standing for what may be called the Life side of various
stages of mystical consciousness, as "Light" stands for the Mind side; but Life and Light are one.

(26) "The Gate of God."  Cp. the Naasene Document in Hippolytus: "This Mystery is the Gate
of Heaven, and this is the House of God, where the Good God dwells alone; into which no impure
man shall come, no psychic, nor fleshly man, ... but it is kept under watch for the Spiritual
alone--where, when they come, they must cast away their garments, and all become bridegrooms,
obtaining their true manhood through the Virginal Spirit.  For this is the Virgin big with
child, conceiving and bearing a Son--not psychic, not fleshly, but a blessed Æon of Æons."

"Gnôsis," then, was the Mystery of Regeneration or Rebirth from above. It will be observed
that the text shows no hostility to "Faith."  This is an indication of early date.  "Mystery"
is often, though not always, the equivalent to "Sacrament."

(27) There is then another "Universal Mother," Phanerios or Phaneia ("Wisdom without the Plêrôma").
In the last resort the two Mothers are one.  Phaneia is the Mother of the manifested world
in which there is matter, but she does not seem to be in exile, as in the Sophia Myth. Like
Isis in the Osiris legend, she seems to have gone forth to gather together the self-scattered
limbs of the Man and to redeem Him from captivity through the efforts of the great hierarchs
that are given to her.

(28) The pre-existence of the soul is taught, also the loss of the memory of its true nature
owing to its fall into "Matter" [Hyle].  But this fall is not regarded as either a sin or a
mistake, but as a needful step in the mystery of Rebirth or "Re-ordering."  The Overseer is
the "Mind of all Masterhood," the Logos, the Second Father of all.

It is tempting to connect the Triple-Power with the Triple-Bodied Man of the Naasene Document
and see in him the symbol of a simple Universal Consciousness "polarised" into the three states
of Spiritual, Psychic, and Material.

(29) This Vision of the Advent of the Creative Word seems to be in part a summary and anticipation
of things described otherwise later in the MS.  After it the writer (or writers) goes back
and describes the "Re-ordering" from the time that "the veils of the æons were drawn" from
various points of view.  Various Cosmic processes are delineated symbolically, and their simultaneous
working is not excluded.

(30) The Universal Man had fallen into bondage in the Fate-Sphere.

(31) I think that what we are to understand is, that the Man is raised from His state of Mystical
Death or Self-dispersion by the Prôtogennêtôr (Son, First Parent), crowned with the Lights
of Wisdom by the Hidden Father "Who has no consort," and robed with cosmic life by the Mother.
Compare what has already been said about the Robe of Glory and the outward signs of its descent
at Pentecost.  The work of the Mantle would seem to symbolise the re-ordering work of the Church,
the "New Creation," the new impulse on its mystical side.  Is Prôtogennêtôr, then, a cryptic
title of Christ?  In a sense I think it is, but there are other issues which are better discussed
at a later point.

The Title "Without King" recalls the Naasene Document and its "One is the Race without a King
which is born Above."

(32) The Seven Stratelatai, leaders or generals, are perhaps the seven Planets.

(33) Cp. the Akhmim Codex: "She (Barbêlô) is the First Thought, his Image, she becometh the
First Man; that is the Virginal Spirit, she of the triple Manhood, the triple-powered one,
the triple-named, triple-born, the æon which ages not, the Man-woman."

34.  Who are the Mother and the three great hierarchs?  It is tempting to connect the three
with the three traditional paths of Purgation, Illumination and Union, Water, Fire and Spirit.
The Propatôr, who desires to turn the World to God, and who is, through the descent of a particular
power, the Father-Mother of the Spiritual Life to come, may symbolise the process of Purgation
and the Baptism of Water; the Autopatôr, who utters the promises of Christ and who has the
power of an Ennead of initiation, may typify the Illuminative Life and the Baptism of Fire;
while the Prôtogennêtôr, robed in cosmic consciousness, so that he can walk even the waters
of the Primal Deep (Noun), who draws forth finally from the material life, may represent the
inception of the Life of Union and the Baptism of the Spirit.  All this may be true, but, if
I mistake not, there is more behind the veil of symbolism, and it is continual allusions to
this more, plain enough to the person for whom it was intended, that renders the MS. so peculiarly
difficult.  Who is Phaneia, the Mother without the Plêrôma, who owes her position to the descent
of the Royal Robe?  She stands for nature in what may be called its sacramental aspect, and
she also stands for the Churches, if I mistake not, and more particularly for the community
or order to which the writer or writers belonged.  This implies a certain claim to a high mystical
self-knowledge on the part of that community.  Again, the title "Son Prôtogennêtôr" is most
significant.  He that bore it must be the Son of the Sacred House, the "Son of the Doctrine,"
and the First Parent, or Father in God, of those to come after.  He invites comparison not
only with the Saviour of the Gospels, but also with figures that appear in the myths of the
mystery cults: with Horos, the son of Isis, with Hermes the Thrice-Great, with the "Eagle"
or "Father" whose title represented the highest grade of the Mithriaca.  I suggest that he
may represent the ideal candidate in the mystery of initiation--that is to say, he who, by
entering into himself, has attained to the "unio mystica," has raised up the "Man" within himself,
has been "reborn" as a god in Divine consciousness, and so is qualified to hand on the vital
processes of the Gnôsis to others, becoming thereby their spiritual parent.  So he is called
Son Prôtogennêtôr.  He is Christ in the sense that Galahad of the "Quest," and Parsifal of
Wagner's great drama are Christ.  The theory of initiation as conceived in the early mystical
communities seems, in part at any rate, to rest upon the proposition that he who has himself
attained to Union with God is able to "start," to "initiate," in suitable persons, and under
certain conditions, those processes which, under Providence, result in a like consummation.
Thus we appear to have a claim in the MS. to a transmitted "Mastership" in the ranks of the
order going back to Jesus Himself: "For whose sake resurrection is given to the body.  He is
the Father of all Light-Sparks," The Propatôr and Autopatôr would seem to represent different
aspects of this claim. "Gnôsis" was not the possession of a body of secret Doctrine in the
sense of having a number of formal propositions containing occult information, but a vital
knowledge of the processes of "Regeneration" or "Apotheosis."

Then, again, we have the idea of a "Divine Mind" or "Logos" manifesting Himself through a Body
of Universal Consciousness, represented sacramentally (that is to say effectually) in the "physical
world" by the bodies of a body of believers.  The rites of this body symbolised, again "effectually,"
the modes and activities of the Body of Universal Consciousness of which it was the outward
sign, just as its doctrines reflected on the plane of mentation and discourse the workings
of the Divine Mind, which are above mentation and discourse, though not contrary to it.  The
acceptance of these ideas seems to have constituted "Pistis"--"the Faith by which we believe
in the Mysteries of the Man"--a mode of the Divine Energy which resulted in good works. "Gnôsis"
was the knowledge of the processes by which these ideas passed from the life of formal belief
and intellectual assent into the life of realised consciousness.  The "Hylics," men in Hyle
or "Matter," were "the children of this world," so absorbed in the life of the senses five
that they lived like "brute beasts without understanding."  [Hyle as a technical term was not
always understood too literally by the Gnôstics and Platonists (see various passages in Codex
Bruce), but derived its importance as the symbol of a certain state of consciousness.]  "Psychics"
were those whose consciousness was sufficiently aroused to accept a formal belief in viewless
Divine Energies and to order their social conduct on the basis of that belief. The "Spiritual,"
the "Perfect," those perfected in Gnôsis, that is, were those that were actually conscious
of participating in a Mind in common and in a Body of transcendental energy in common.  This
Mind (Logos), Light-Spark, and Body (Monad) constituted a sole Being, Man, or the Son of Man,
neither male nor female, and yet both, who enveloped all things, even those of Hyle (v. the
Naasene Document) in His Infinite Perfections, who manifested all things, who was concealed
in all things and who was above all things.  An ideal Church or Community of "Spiritual" men,
conscious of the whole Man in each of its members, could focus within itself, without any robbery,
all the energies of the Universe, and by concentrating and applying them in a certain manner
could give birth to the whole order within the consciousness of the called and chosen candidate,
who thus became a "Self-Knowing," "Self-Fathered," "Fore-Fathered" god, a "Race without a King
in the name God."  His substance was "enformed" by the Sacraments of the Manifested Order (Phaneia),
and the substance thus "enformed" was finally "assumed," "translated," "transformed," what
you will, in a mode utterly beyond all symbol and image by the "descent" of the Divine "Grace,"
"First Concept," "Ennead and Monad Without Seal-Mark," "Barbêlô" (again what you will), and
given final "Re-birth in the Light of the Mind."  To form an Ideal community of this kind,
a community of gods in God, by a series of grades or steps, places of "Repentance" or "change"
slowly taken, was, I believe, the purpose of those responsible for the original of the present
MS.  "They began from the base upwards that the building might unite them to their companions"--souls
that in æonian bliss beheld the Face of God unveiled.  Into this building plan the Neophyte
was initiated to give thereto his soul and body as a willing oblation and sacrifice.  It seems
a reasonable suggestion to offer that this document consists of a series of meditations and
spiritual exercises given to the candidate before one of the inner "initiations" or sacramental
"starts" that was consummated beyond the veil of signs and symbols.  For such an end not only
Faith, not only a reasonable Foundation in an accepted philosophy, that of Plato, but an Imagination
intensified into intuition was needed.  Hence these strange hieroglyphs on the expressed veil.
The Child of Fire must behold rising within himself from the Immeasurable Abyss of Godhead
the five-rayed morning star of Love, Faith, Hope, Gnôsis, and Peace, the herald of the Perfect
Dawn of a New Birth.

Possibly "Propatôr," "Autopatôr" and "Prôtogennêtôr" may also have been the official designations
of hierophants in the sacramental side of some "Mystery" consummated in solitude, from which
the candidate returned an "Epopt."

(35) Cp. Ps.

(36) This hymn or prayer seems to be an invocation to the "Dark Ray" on behalf of the candidate
(and also for the building up of the "Ideal Order").  The consummation, beyond all signs and
images, is in the hands of God alone.  A "start" may be effected by duly qualified hierophants
under certain conditions, but the crown "Pantelos" is given by the "Father of all Fatherhood"
alone.

(37) This looks as if in this system the Fruit of the Plêrôma was also the Father of the Fullnesses.
The phrase "He made a world and bore it into the Temple" seems to mean that He assumed a body
of manifestation.

(38) The veil which surrounded the Plêrôma or World of Divine Ideas was called "Stauros" (Cross)
and Horos (Boundary).  Cp. Hippolytus (vi. 3):

"Now it is called 'Boundary' because it bounds off the Deficiency from the Fullness [so as
to make it] exterior to it.  It is called Partaker because it partakes of the Deficiency as
well; and it is called 'Cross' because it hath been fixed immovably and unchangeably, so that
nothing of the Deficiency should be able to approach the æons within the Fullness."

See also the "Gnôstic Crucifixion," 9, 10, 11 (Acts of John): "[The Cross] is the defining
(or delimitation) of all things, both the firm necessity of things fixed from things unstable,
and the harmony of wisdom.  And as it is Wisdom in Harmony, there are those on the Right and
those on the Left--powers, authorities, principalities and daemons, energies, threats, powers
of wrath, slanderings--and the Lower Root from which hath come forth the things in genesis.
This, then, is the Cross which by the Word hath been the means of 'Cross-beaming' all things--at
the same time separating off the things that proceed from genesis and those below from those
above, and also compacting them all into one."

The "Mantle" in which the Man is clad and which severs and orders all things is evidently another
aspect of the same idea.

The use of the term "veil" is suggestive, as the term is so often employed in Hellenistic Mysticism
in connection with "Initiation." Finally, it is just worth noting that it is possible that
what Origen has to say about the self-limitation of God is influenced by the tradition concerning
the Horos or "Boundary."

(39) This is undoubtedly a reference to the Mystical Crucifixion so often mentioned in previous
notes.  It is the Master Symbol of the Unitive State, of the reconciliation and union of God
and Man, and of the participation of the individual in the Universal.  Its presence at this
point of the text is most suggestive.  The candidate, "the Birth of Matter," stands, mystically
at any rate, before the Veil at the Foot of the Cross.  To pass the Veil and to enter into
the Fullness means being united with the Master in His Passion and Crucifixion.

The Cross is evidently a Tau, and I suggest that the frontispiece may represent this Mystery,
the Crucifixion of the Æon, O, upon Staurus, the Cross and the Master being One, AΩ and AΩ.
The meaning of XMI is unknown.  It has been suggested that it is (with EIC ΘΕΟΣ) a symbol of
the Trinity in Unity, or a veil of the Divine Name.

(40) The terms I have translated as "Sole Unstainable," "Sole [Foundation]-stone of Adamant"
are "Amiantos," "Adamantos."  Besides meaning "unstainable," Amiantos was the name of a pale
green stone. Readers interested in the legend of the Graal will recall that the Graal is represented
as a green stone in the "Parzival" of Von Eschenbach.  "Adamantos" is "diamond."  Here and
in the account of the Monad as the Metropolis of Monogenes, "filled with men of every race
and with all the statues of the king," there is a curious parallel to be found to a happening
in the life of Saint Theresa.  "Being once in prayer," she says, "the Diamond was represented
to me like a flash; although I saw nothing formed, still, it was a representation with all
clearness how all things are seen in God, and how all are contained in Him....  Let us say
that the Divinity is like a very lustrous Diamond, larger than all the world, or like a mirror--and
all that we do is seen in this Diamond, it being so fashioned that it includes everything within
itself, because there is nothing but what is contained in this magnitude."

I have ventured to insert [Foundation] because I think that there is a punning allusion to
"Adamas."  Cp. Naasene Document: "The 'rock' means Adamas.  This is the corner-stone ... which
I insert in the foundation of Zion.  By this he means allegorically the plasm of man. For Adamas,
who is inserted in the inner Man, and the foundations of Zion are ... the wall and palisade
(sc. Horos) in which is the inner Man."

(41) The prayer seems to be for the transmutation of the members of the order by mystical marriages
with their archetypal "selves," that the mysteries of the Crucifixion, Resurrection, Ascension,
and of the Descent of the Paraclete may be realised after a certain manner.

(42) Compare this passage with what has already been said concerning an attempt to form an
Ideal Order.  "A place of Metanoia" implies here a radical change of the whole being rather
than "repentance" as ordinarily understood.  The "topos" of Autogênes, the Self-begotten, was
the first station of the journey of the Light-Spark without the Plêrôma, and is the last station
of the return within.

The extant "Gospel of Mary" (Codex Akhmim), which was "reviewed" by Irenaeus, and was therefore
composed before 180 A.D., states that from the Light of the Christ and the Incorruptible proceed
forth four great Lights to surround Autogênes.  Their names are Harmozel, Ôroiaêl, Daveithi,
and Èlêlêth.  Irenaeus says, "Charis [Grace] was conjoined with the great and first Luminary,
and this they will have to be the Saviour and call him Harmogen"--the Harmes-begotten.  The
name "Harmes" appears in the present MS., and is evidently a name for Barbêlô.  These things
are important for the date of the Greek original.  The allusions to Pistis-Sophia are probably
interpolated; there seems to be no room for her adventures in the scheme of the text.  But
what are we to make of the mysterious "Baptism in the name of Barpharanges"?  Does "Barpharanges"
(the meaning of which no one seems to know) simply = Harmogenes = the begotten from Barbêlô,
"the Virginal Spirit," the Image seen in the "pure water of Light"?  If so, then we have in
all probability an allusion to the Gnôstic Baptism with the Holy Spirit or Light.  "Harmogenes"
will be the Child of the Mystical Marriage with the Virginal Spirit by which the "Spiritual"
recover their true manhood, a "blessed æon of æons": that is to say, that the Epopt himself
is mystically "Autogênes," the "Self-begotten," having been reborn a god in God.

The rest of the text is missing.

43.  This Hymn to the Light seems to stand in some close connection with the text we have been
discussing.  If what has been suggested concerning the contents of the Greek original should
prove correct, both the nature and position of the Hymn become plain.  It consists of various
acts of the will not altogether unlike some of those prescribed in certain Catholic manuals
for those in the Unitive way.  It is the form of Prayer given by the "Director" or "Master"
to his disciple, to be used together with the MS. as part of his preparation for, what I believe
to be, the "Baptism of Light."  A large part of the Hymn seems to be missing owing to the state
of the MS., and the order is uncertain.

PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY NEILL AND CO., LTD., EDINBURGH.

JOHN M. WATKINS

Cloth, F'cap 8vo.  Price 2s. net.  Post free 2s. 2d.

The Ladder of Reality.

By W. SCOTT-PALMER,

Author of "A Modern Mystic's Way."

"A book with a message.  It deals with those interior things of life that under the stress
of life to-day are coming more and more into the outer world, fore-runners of a new grade of
spiritual evolution which will lift us all by degrees out of the 'narrow schemings and unworthy
cares' that have cramped us so painfully in the past."

THIRD LARGE EDITION.

Frontispiece.  Cloth, 8vo, pp. 151.

Price 2s. 6d. net.  Post free 2s. 8d.

The Path of the Eternal Wisdom.

By JOHN CORDELIER.

A Mystical Commentary on the Way of the Cross.

Frontispiece.  F'cap 8vo, pp. 180.  Leather, 3s. 6d. net; post free 3s. 9d.  Cloth 2s. 6d.
net; post free 2s. 9d.

The Spiral Way.

Being Meditations upon the Fifteen Mysteries of the Soul's Ascent.

By JOHN CORDELIER,

Author of "The Path of the Eternal Wisdom."

Cloth, F'cap 8vo, pp. 151.  Price 2s.  Post free 2s. 2d.

Early English Instructions and Devotions.

Cloth, F'cap 8vo, pp. 176.  Price 2s. net.  Post free 2s. 3d.

A Handbook of Mystical Theology.

Being an Abridgment of "Il Direttorio Mistico," by G. B. SCARAMELLI, S.J.

By D. H. S. NICHOLSON.

CONTENTS.--Preface--Preliminary--Contemplation generally--Grades of Contemplation--Visions--Locutions
and Revelations--Purgation.

Cloth, Imp. 16mo, pp. 321.  Price 3s. 6d. net.  Inland postage 5d.; Foreign 8d.

Contemplations:

Being Studies in Christian Mysticism.

By WALTER LESLIE WILMSHURST.

CONTENTS.--Concerning Thieves--On Crucifixion--The Tethered Ass--The Raising of the Dead--When
Two shall be One--The New Priesthood--St. Winefride's Well and Legend--The Scientific Apprehension
of the Super-Physical World.

Cloth, F'cap 8vo, pp. 302.

The Way to Christ.

Described in the following treatises: Of True Repentance--Of True Resignation--Of the Super-Sensual
Life--Of Regeneration.

By JACOB BOEHME.

Cloth, F'cap 8vo, pp. 328.  Price 2s. 6d. net.  Post free 2s. 10d.

The Following of Christ.

By JOHN TAULER.

Done into English by J. R. MORELL.

Cloth, F'cap 8vo, pp. 314.

A BOOK OF CONTEMPLATION THE WHICH IS CALLED

The Cloud of Unknowing.

IN THE WHICH A SOUL IS ONED WITH GOD.

From the British Museum MS.

With an Introduction by EVELYN UNDERHILL.

Flowers of a Mystic Garden.

Selections from the Writings of JOHN RUYSBROECK.

The Book of the Twelve Béguines.

By JAN VAN RUYSBROECK.

Translated from the Flemish by JOHN FRANCIS.

WORKS OF JACOB BÖHME.

Cloth, Royal 8vo, pp. lxiv + 809.  Price 15s. net.

The Three Principles of the Divine Essence.

With an Introduction by Dr PAUL DEUSSEN.

Cloth, Royal 8vo, pp. liii + 310 and vii + 54.

Price 10s. 6d. net.

The Forty Questions of the Soul

AND

The Clavis.

With Emendations by D. S. HEHNER.

POCKET EDITION.  Cloth, F'cap 8vo, pp. 302.

Price 3s. 6d. net.

The Way to Christ:

Of True Repentance.  Of True Resignation.  Of Regeneration.  Of the Supersensual Life.

Uniform with the "Three Principles," "Threefold Life," and "Forty Questions."

Cloth, Royal 8vo, pp. xlvii + 723.  With Photogravure Frontispiece. Price 12s. 6d. net.

The Aurora.

Translated by JOHN SPARROW.

Edited by C. J. B. and D. S. H.

In his preface to the reader, John Sparrow writes: "I must say that this book, 'Aurora,' hath
conduced more to open my mind to the understanding of all his writings, and of all Mysteries,
both natural and divine (and so, consequently, of the Holy Scriptures) than any other helps
and books which I could ever meet withal besides....  In his 'Aurora' the ground of those terms
[the succinct, very deeply expressed terms employed in his later books] is largely and plainly
described in a childish way, after the manner of the infancy of his high manifestation; so
that it is a large and most clear ABC, being the fitter and plainer for beginners, and with
his other books may the easier be understood; and it is a summary contents of all his Mysteries,
and may serve instead of a manuduction, introduction, and key to unlock all the difficult expressions
in his other books."

21 Cecil Court, Charing Cross Road, W.C. 2.

