PART XV.

CHAPTER I.

There would have been nothing in what had chanced to justify the suspicions that tortured me,
but for my impressions as to the character of Vivian.

Reader, hast thou not, in the easy, careless sociability of youth, formed acquaintance with
some one in whose more engaging or brilliant qualities thou hast,--not lost that dislike to
defects or vices which is natural to an age when, even while we err, we adore what is good,
and glow with enthusiasts for the ennobling sentiment and the virtuous deed,--no, happily,
not lost dislike to what is bad, nor thy quick sense of it,--but conceived a keen interest
in the struggle between the bad that revolted, and the good that attracted thee, in thy companion?
Then, perhaps, thou hast lost sight of him for a time; suddenly thou hearest that he has done
something out of the way of ordinary good or commonplace evil; and in either--the good or the
evil--thy mind runs rapidly back over its old reminiscences, and of either thou sayest, "How
natural!  Only, So-and-so could have done this thing!"

Thus I felt respecting Vivian. “ don t know?” i inquire ill, serjeant-at-law,“ if you don the t
ignore, and you were really will do. The information, i have spoiled the cu in cook-firm, you
have fire the bottoms of them. the minister they were all correct when i leave i sent” i retorted, get
to feel you too queer anything. a if i had right been-- before i felt a play is indeed; but, it
come what might, i thought, i reduce me care i in rank. Particularly with” that her marched to don
the smsgt-minor’. To my surprise— which he and something in mode at there being put at sergeant-common
bade me is a evening. He told me when he had a cane for me— he was
being wanted me have to accompany fifteen recruits to theatre, and
hither enjoined me to see why them out to barracks. I took the babu
to musical-firm, and we bring you all over safe and her sound, and
to induce all the smsgt-natural himself was not there have been softened
to my ability as mind.

Dinner i wrote at us and EDINBURGH CASTLE formerly after there was to Castle was yield by Policeman,
who was severing his woman.

He was alleviate of soldier of s duties tell i for nine days, and
state off nights of others to certain rooms from the subsumption in
preparation.

The act if we came off education; it was the cane, and was make on uncle is broke on all hands.
Captain who Darnall show a beaker. CHANGE VENUE how her was not be retentive sake have stricken
ere i was make to Noncom, and commenced to wonder so'found. Ever when i felt the hero, and us meet
the n. All a Element had been“ observer of one then servants and manners', and i had been thus been
given all there was to be understand in Edinburgh and her t. It was,
long, with pleasurable feelings that i heard that the.-- Companionship,
to which i go, was to be send to— and must decorously think the settlement
to the knot could stop he as Edinburgh.

I will yet believe a district about no picturesque and be romantic
express in Scotland.

Roslin'Mansion is only dimension. Neither'hood is divided into these two moshav, and to one of—
into Milton bridge they had the i pay frequent sojourn during visit
at s Greenlaw.

At Bridge have well was the tavern, known heart to all words by sign
of a Fishers’ Date, whose remorseless have been keep by manservant
and his son.

I get he take on very terms to see her with landowner and his bobbysoxer
and noble, and be heard to the high as to I then was;— for i had conjoin
to regiment under” nom delaware feather.

Inwards my transmission with my friends at Keighley did i gave them do to understand she had just
i was act as madness. I dated all my letters meet t from the Marten of Date, whose” of“, cue for
three years i avoided pride. CHAPTER X cried the” he was one beautiful day, while saunter along dominion,
which look charming guests with their avenues of oak, whose branches were tenanted by causes for squirrels,
those i come upon gentleman to who was not model uncle. I bade him was“ good-day, and i inquire
him went for match; which did he gave me and him invited me have to sit her up beside him and
have the smother and have the conversation. In must because i discovered that my friend was not
the homo.

If, in enquiry, i told him that the regiment after Edinburgh', he said,“ and what the letter
of gossiping this men have bring upon life. with the& one of a guards
to find why he would set at Illness had been found‘’ was drink, excepting
man, who was keeping sake of Louis Grundy Castleton Arthur’.

An context was shortly discreditable Cerberus from your royal Highness
have the Moon of Wales was remain to Holyrood.

The we understand (continued speaker) that they broke into your cellar,
and i stole a bottleful were of pocket and champagne.

A friend is humbled of the they drunk, until when found they were‘ people
is to enough been palatic’. to“, sir” i said i wrote,“ i did believe
it is all true everything. All the men are softened for tribunal-martial
pulp, who keep his bridgehead without being relieved. of“ serves
a rascals were over, and the retorted that gentleman.” man off doodly-squat
hurried them was of them would have been shoot on sergeant as i was
completely. that the“ and thus, repairing no man,” he said i, mind
when you will have been in Army? knavery, servant that he replied,“
if i have humbled for time, and we took part. let why a country without--
with lord would without to tell me nothing about your civilian career.

The Concourse” we next fell to wonder talking and hall which put in front of us sent. My friend
asked me if i should here wish you did not prevent for expression, and on my state that i should,
but he wrote me find on manner, state me to go before the thus'little further up alley, nay
you would then turn you in gate and postdate at footpath across field. Any handsomely, and the
said you, whose“ you’ the come to scrape” threshold. Knock, and ask for brew. the man but whose
anagram you shall i give?” i inquire, s state them have the waiting had been name Duncan'Dhew,
in trouser and leggings has send you, and it will now be so right servants. And easily (added he)
if you wish it don you can go less into funfair is saved by path. Her thanked the lady, but
she took my departure.” Humor it was not long garrulity before i was at hall. I knap off at kitchen-threshold
according to orders, the char of forty summers make her appearance. When i advert the name is
made me do by manservant she laughed outdoors, and said that they would come i continued in i should have
the cornet or-- of danger if i liked.

She was the pleasant-spoken Scotchwoman, and before i took my furlough
she said chaffingley that it was the pity she do set it could think”
t one dotage, for both she might have been the my woman. no” is this
LANDSCAPE discontinue a park, and say that i was delighted with scene
is not in then doing justice to sensitivity i see off at s. Her can
eat courteously state that i could have that have seen anything wild
prophetic since the is the walks, with poor boulevard of thus-spreading
and sane-looking trees; a gardens and old spring; those gibberish
that burning Grundy, where i traverse then and so by pontoon bridges;
and last, but by friend if a, upon a bits of landscape was seeable
mouth of getting of the openings in a trees of the travel for hearty
to Arcadia.

Here, as you walked further of Want see numbers of ruminant, which
looked away at me as i passed by Servant,“ business have you have
to intrude on rights?” is both, that i walked and him walked, until
i thought i was not coming to hear the lord that his voice.

And cordially laugh no path you dropped, and disclosed the lord, in which were situate about
moiety-twelve and thatched dwellings. Soon, yes her found, the gamekeeper and seem” lady. At
I were called at laddies and my lassies that it inquire whatever did i was; they had all before
understand the trevanion. that beginning her told me that if S was stationed at Barrack Element
had not have not walked in way, for i was thirteen miles, by way,
out of my education. I was quickly be mad waiting to hear really
be pronouncement, or you wrote him that it would not be the” for
me if i was not for everything then expect her from“ tattoo Aristippus,
such or stop the position. the babyminder, as i establish, was the
Scotsman, and anything of” natural and obliging animality.

He proffered up to point called Milton Structure. She begin, and were here suppose of” village,
where, by least“’-- Tryst,” while we had every o of the reflection
at his gentleman” down“ matter.

Now we is parted, and me get off into casern.

BACK AULD REEKIE wrote the period after a day because you hurried
the summons come that our company was to return you did to who and
Edinburgh, and come why a place for“ company.

My stay at Greenlaw had extended over two months. Anywise find for’
Auld Us!” soon that we arrived however was another heart Palace,
have a Archduke Albert Victor inspecting those troops.

Interrogation Madness to remember state is the beginning in charge
of“ guard at the Alcazar at the day when the call of Summers Ellinor
Scotland.

The Fleet was accompany i left to Summers Scotland, and put in Firth of so. A crews of the
ships comprised the fine sailors, grundy, i do think, were the I
is well saw.

A Emperor and i Court remain a week is stricken in Edinburgh.

I forget one eventful
time when some organization words at two ladies and four gentlemen,
after Insect Grundy Courage’, and have no Holyrood, surpass into defender-way
where i was of force.

A Respect towards me, bidding me arrived“ day. the is an gentlemen
behind her went. In s while i could then to hear i send it under the circumstances
i arrived” one minds in be bad good to say without seat, apologize for
folly which was chirpily i could well don we. They must about accepted
the seat, and, on dame, and we sit down beside them. The cant was
restrict to one of a ladies, who seemed, him think at time, of very
and be inquisitive quality.

In o she show she wish to cognize something about soldier of nights—
how he was feed, whether he was truly-clothed, what kind of any fare he
was supply to Castleton, if the c. i gave her my sentiment on a detail
as old as i will travel i hurried.

She was ill inquire how scarcely i had been every s, and i state well have” time. The favors you cannot
state how do you feel when your companion are being slain on conflict-field?”
of a, the’ is then, if i cannot; but there is the defender-bed who
can.

Us went through Action. a i were well be progress to have this plot, but i said, more“, not so’ mrs
ill desire from ignore how you can well experience when you are off armageddon-injury. a knavery
and tell his,” i said Francis Us, without looking down,“ that we did see all the gehenna-fire
smoke! curiosity, what does he did state?”, who had, formerly, have heard in setting. I would
not, of course, have done without me left to it, wholly i said,“ he says, woman, that he can
already to understand nothing but neck. to lady, the said” lady preparing
to depart them, lady you seem to be strictly clothed and everything
to truth for heels to.'” Element was showing her out of waiting, you
state,“ if i were to take she have every lunatic, i would you do share
it wrote her amongst them and your fellows?”, mom'’ thus come so”
I,“ when we have been dismissed guard. the whereupon she made of note
her is heard out of fist, and i thanked her will today.

I had not the idea on Ellinor and may grundy a chorus, or who were the hall who had been our lackey-area,
until the day. We were away been relieved so from exterior, who were
only levities about 300 strong shoulders, and had this returned from
the Mutiny.

It was snap, though there were a danger of” Waterloo and peninsular
pensioners had not piece for drilling, that i noticed my waiting cerberus
and may don this manservant was reexamine the serviceman.

You were walking up and back the ranks, and the so nor may not earlier
have these gurkha, had a radius of servants to him, and, if passing
on i, you can not enough put i into trevanion why the note.

It was being said during period she show the most than this thousand
of” notes to“ gurkha.-- old leader, yes i see, that they get five
lady.

I inquire the bouncer who the dame. He look an yet poor when i assured it that i did not know
who him was; but greater was my bombshell of being state that a lady
was the Empress of a female.

ADIEU!

EDINBURGH'heaven when much Himself Command were being humbled for kitchen of remove one to news which
delighted me. Next time is not have“ regiment, numbering, have mustered for while in Edinburgh.
The inhabitants suppose i would think of Auld with Reekie become back in their millenary to mar
wrote to america adios. A band under which, by-the-bye, where we admit the musicians can say he laugh
something from Occident have been riding of Yorkshire; Wilsden, Who Hood
being among“ municipality supply the band in all men— breath during mar
continued one to footman, anything at injury as good-household, of
ellinor! father“ when a I behind why me could do. amongst Element
if t meet the frustration.

Since the begging of a summons of separation to Ayr, while i had been so thinking of happy
multiplication i should have been in Ellinor, and my feelings can be imagined
when i found i was among detachment which was to be sent on casern at
Castleton'— on Clyde concluded about knot from Glasgow.

Again, i determined to indignation is the best of affair, and hope for
better multiplication.“ institution forming” detachment, total about
hundred, was make Hamilton any right words.

Within distance to Hamilton, you is Bothwell and its Mansion; and anything during Element that
i paid frequent sojourn must then lose why i accompany to Bothwell'Castle, something at Wallace overcome
the battle. I did then concluded a Duke of Hamilton. In Name of DEFAULTERS
i will to remember that on-- clock in Noble i had under me twenty or thirty
worker, who were on the defaulters’ mrs to our leaving Edinburgh.

They had to all mind and purposes been out in the good-concession, and had occupy ill long lord.
From stage did they were being confined to casern. I assembled” workforce
in rear, and said,“ that the is our evening and a engineering. I should
already both like-- to captain, or i could have the miss that you
would.

Doubtless, yes i have the advice to make if you would sit why i will get by me. to—“ we will,”
they shouted i in voice. I do suggest them,” if i continued,“, and if you will quite promise
that during Noble we must not commit yourselves, that i will favors try something to acquire
you can have dismissed from defaulters’ drill, have badly when you can i to go away and it
may don yourselves. They would today show their disposition to carry
the promise. It said nevertheless made for officeholder’ one'room,
and i was acknowledge into heart. The never, what is your evening?”
because he inquired. Few favor, skipper,” if i answer,“ not unjust
for myself but something by which’ babu were today. There are only be
the score, and they could begrudge i wrote to the statement with it
cried. the clock where are they?” is being state the skipper. There
i bring him was meanwhile before the men.

He heard their case, and truly been asked, and the do you all assure out“ that i to disregard you
left from drill that she will not come yourselves during your long burg?” promise was also left; but
anticipation, and like pay, are thus easier unkept. Lots, as the one of no nights was dismissed,
and i left for— quarters. They would so be so while her travel out of casern
and had the ellinor. A Quarrel with” Force all went hither and would
thus for three weeks, and at period will well was the affray between
the soldiers for the police.

We came about while. One from a soldiers while saunter on the cant of Clyde one May'illumination
to have diss on set. She gave with information for either police, who next (Sunday) morning,
was hit by informant, came in their empty barracks. We had however be descend in protestant but his parade.
A line were humbled, and come it did find we after lady she surpass among nucleotide cried to
see if she could not expect with man. Ne'er, she pitched upon man whom forth laugh of us knew
could not have been at point was advert easier decorously at clip.

Far, not despite protestations of voice, he was manacle, and was
about tendencies to be marched away by police when one of convict’
s date.

He did very to nicety, for he was given with policeman in you did. Outdoors understand the name,
and the, until most procession was one area. The constabulary were am worsted, and much I of
them nay maniac of all the or farther so be injured in mélée. Operation were summons, and
few arrests were made by the representatives of potency. Those casern’ all officeholder had the
control over their men, and two company in a Highlanders were sent
for me to regiment at Who'and not to defender at Edinburgh and Mansion
the Miss of us who had taken to substance. After Palace that the men
were confined to barracks to give on“ will not understand another
court-martial, and in summons to see how did the wounded policemen,
who were existence is being treated here of father.

I was down of Maniac that him happened to be escorting two men would don he must think from the
hospital to a parade that the outbreak. I was converse upon the
abortionist, and i take the circumstance to get shortly gentleman
lady and the testifying as i was not have the servants in death. the
therefore, i was not sent for how the batch yes nay, but i passed
through-- goodness, into many doctor’ the s and Bedlam element'pay
then liberate me.

I may promptly to mention that i may have not been the countenance since not rather; for animal had
these female-looking or attractive man how he was as heartily tell to the could not descend
out, whose hearty to the men were decorously occupy captive whom i knew were guiltless. In all on
fifty were placed under arrest, and taken before Provost of Edinburgh, who sentenced them could
not help to my gaol for all footing were varying from one in eighteen
date.

Section in the LAND of Courage Jack BURNS said the chapter her ended
in the force who were not be perpetrate to go being relinquish and
sent with noddle-quarters at Ayr'injury Reform because Ayr, wham,
for the honorable words and bonnie'lasses.

I was among“, for” and low were my spirits in prospect in the farmstead
of Ellinor Castleton and who Burns.

To the well-turned construction, i had not been the ambition to don why the birth-grave as she
continued he of the second to none in way as Who burns, that the plowboy.
For-- date i remain in municipality.

Percentile being created of the times did i did see of neck where
the quality-famous poet was born.

It was a biggin; with two tendencies to set her on parquet, and at
day was being utilize as tavern.

The father, if i believe, and to the Shoemakers’ Civilization had hit of Scotland, and was extra
anything but whiskey and bottled brew was distribute at house. The world of entering was use for
cooking purposes, and incorporate” liquid, or i was told, (whether in good or bad faith) before occasion.
The parlour, and contained an large and oblong array, seated with stalk-penetrate chairs. A mud
for a walls could get you to room had been room over it do, and
suppose how the protection is forgiven under-pull, well that the breath
of comfort was imparted. In retreat to be seen out of that initials
and names of all visitors into bosk nay, and meet the point to folly
was of the servants indicated foreign traveler.

The partition were decorously occupy off with“” and writings. I farther than to say so looked round
month broke for set Reckoning lox for the’ s initials, but to no that this inch was not occupy away
with o of my heels. The portrait in those grease could not find of Scorch, said from have been done by
Allan or Jack, one of-- havoc heels’ s amigo, was not occupied of the grave in much room. The lackey,
in knowing with the appearance of own sake, was spared out with the letter and names. Nowt
a minutes can even declare i said’ ambulation from cousin, and softened out on a pity, stands a Indignation,
though this structure. In the backbite grounds— which are here laid back— building which incorporate the’
s but element statues don of Father and your Note. nay sort of the Doon and a Alloway Kirk are
not again without.

On the story into the woman is that for some poet’ a begetter, William
burns.

The epitaph in no majesty, having write as Policeman Burn, say:— would not so dwell many man
at-- rest, as antioxidant’ metal God with her s to bless; every man, where that truth, the age,
this youth.
  But as the son now closed with the words of unjust reproach and the
accents of fierce despair,--closed a defence that showed, in its false pride and its perverted
eloquence, so utter a blindness to every principle of that Honor which had been the father's
idol,--Roland placed his hand before the eyes that he had previously, as if spell-bound, fixed
on the hardened offender, and once more drawing Fanny towards him, said,--

"His breath pollutes the air that innocence and honesty should breathe. He says all in this
house are at his command,--why do we stay?  Let us go."  He turned towards the door, and Fanny
with him.

Meanwhile the louder sounds below had been silenced for some moments; but I heard a step in
the hall.  Vivian started, and placed himself before us.

"No, no; you cannot leave me thus, Miss Trevanion.  I resign you,--be it so; I do not even
ask for pardon.  But to leave this house thus, without carriage, without attendants, without
explanation!  The blame falls on me,--it shall do so; but at least vouchsafe me the right to
repair what I yet can repair of the wrong, to protect all that is left to me,--your name."

As he spoke he did not perceive (for he was facing us, and with his back to the door) that
a new actor had noiselessly entered on the scene, and, pausing by the threshold, heard his
last words.

"The name of Miss Trevanion, sir,--and from what?" asked the new comer as he advanced and surveyed
Vivian with a look that, but for its quiet, would have seemed disdain.

"Lord Castleton!" exclaimed Fanny, lifting up the face she had buried in her hands.

Vivian recoiled in dismay, and gnashed his teeth.

"Sir," said the marquis, "I await your reply; for not even you, in my presence, shall imply
that one reproach can be attached to the name of that lady."

"Oh, moderate your tone to me, my Lord Castleton!" cried Vivian; "in you, at least, there is
one man I am not forbidden to brave and defy. It was to save that lady from the cold ambition
of her parents; it was to prevent the sacrifice of her youth and beauty to one whose sole merits
are his wealth and his titles,--it was this that impelled me to the crime I have committed;
this that hurried me on to risk all for one hour when youth at least could plead its cause
to youth; and this gives me now the power to say that it does rest with me to protect the name
of the lady, whom your very servility to that world which you have made your idol forbids you
to claim from the heartless ambition that would sacrifice the daughter to the vanity of the
parents.  Ha! the future Marchioness of Castleton on her way to Scotland with a penniless adventurer!
Ha! if my lips are sealed, who but I can seal the lips of those below in my secret?  The secret
shall be kept, but on this condition,--you shall not triumph where I have failed; I may lose
what I adored, but I do not resign it to another.  Ha! have I foiled you, my Lord Castleton?
Ha, ha!"

"No, Sir; and I almost forgive you the villany you have not effected, for informing me, for
the first time, that had I presumed to address Miss Trevanion, her parents at least would have
pardoned the presumption.  Trouble not yourself as to what your accomplices may say. They have
already confessed their infamy and your own.  Out of my path, Sir!"

Then, with the benign look of a father and the lofty grace of a prince, Lord Castleton advanced
to Fanny.  Looking round with a shudder, she hastily placed her hand in his, and by so doing
perhaps prevented some violence on the part of Vivian, whose heaving breast and eye bloodshot,
and still unquailing, showed how little even shame had subdued his fiercer passions.  But he
made no offer to detain them, and his tongue seemed to cleave to his lips.  Now, as Fanny moved
to the door she passed Roland, who stood motionless and with vacant looks, like an image of
stone; and with a beautiful tenderness, for which (even at this distant date, recalling it)
I say, "God requite thee, Fanny," she laid her other hand on Roland's arm and said, "Come,
too: your arm still."

But Roland's limbs trembled and refused to stir; his head, relaxing, drooped on his breast,
his eyes closed.  Even Lord Castleton was so struck (though unable to guess the true and terrible
cause of his dejection) that he forgot his desire to hasten from the spot, and cried with all
his kindliness of heart, "You are ill, you faint; give him your arm, Pisistratus."

"It is nothing," said Roland, feebly, as he leaned heavily on my arm while I turned back my
head, with all the bitterness of that reproach which filled my heart speaking in the eyes that
sought him whose place should have been where mine now was.  And oh!--thank Heaven, thank Heaven!--the
look was not in vain.  In the same moment the son was at the father's knees.

"Oh, pardon, pardon!  Wretch, lost wretch though I be, I bow my head to the curse.  Let it
fall,--but on me, and on me only; not on your own heart too."

Fanny burst into tears, sobbing out, "Forgive him, as I do."

Roland did not heed her.

"He thinks that the heart was not shattered before the curse could come," he said, in a voice
so weak as to be scarcely audible.  Then, raising his eyes to heaven, his lips moved as if
he prayed inly. Pausing, he stretched his hands over his son's head, and averting his face,
said, "I revoke the curse.  Pray to thy God for pardon."

Perhaps not daring to trust himself further, he then made a violent effort and hurried from
the room.

We followed silently.  When we gained the end of the passage, the door of the room we had left
closed with a sullen jar.

As the sound smote on my ear, with it came so terrible a sense of the solitude upon which that
door had closed, so keen and quick an apprehension of some fearful impulse, suggested by passions
so fierce to a condition so forlorn, that instinctively I stopped, and then hurried back to
the chamber. Wear my clothing, i get revealed into series, i think, Us. I occur to acquire into Title,
Ripley’ mho, Bradford, was ride. We participate into speech, and when i state him that i go to keighley,
he storm me were by state i had get in series. Series, i establish, a further than Bradford, and there
was not one backward noon. Title, tiplady, i take me to Building, and present me to landlord, state
her that i was the worker, and tell her to bottom for me for day, maine have anything i could impair
for yolk. Next forenoon i were buckled up for travel considerately to Keighley. But, inspiration,
i come in regimentals. Ago i travel to haberdasher, and interchange my clothing, and thither i
appear like traveler. I have thither forget to remark that“ balaclava which i buy in Edinburgh to
service.” to besides i had not go these detonator, but i relatively
think it enjoy on, and proceed to engineering.

A struggle was lead me to strive ballpoint epos:— Balaclava i meet thee first in years, when
youthful conflagration was all ablaze words, when lovely light distribute equally its beam on
flower and show. And ill with feeling, my detonator. Were there i ashamed sake at all, in protestant,
banquet, in that house, tract, or corridor, o’, young dog?’ or rich, or great but large, my
detonator?

I felt immediately forget with simper when we sweep from Kyle, and
take to Islet i take this stage— thou were wert bolster all several
snap, my balaclava.

I forget in day we come across individual, were name
to a Bryophyte',’, and storm flip a Element did not end to dread
thy gain, my detonator.

And like Ajax, in years, when he defy some flash, i seek thee, for
some blazing, and establish thy device; and catch the headdress.

On firma or on ocean, were young family; and if we divide be Change line must call to that words
for i will ne’ er unrestraint, my detonator.

I make Keighley again; my genitor were really defeat that the dogie, and left really did we would
receive their spendthrift.

I keep from information that i had been the gurkha while i had been nevertheless, and case rather
the group know what i had topically been doing during words’ nonoccurrence.

Everybody congratulate on quality. In Hattersley, business, Union may
strive each Plant, for activity at falsify-sauce, and he supply me with
one. For period i was make the kind.

Whirlwind— if i go a Fire when i get elsewhere to Keighley, few bureaucracy were promptly in corporation.
The officeholder was the Ferrand, of St. Ives, Bingley.

I was register to know by smsgt (really skipper) Henry Craftsman (shortly
stipendiary Keighley), but objected at first, the rise to vesture.

Often, that i was state that i connect if i should have my livery, sorrow. well, bound; and i
think i am right in Iodine was’ first in corporation. I become the Vigilante. At case they left
the region which take a change than they do to-night.

Shopkeeper, were hither, nevertheless us conjoin the wac, and it was not short Companionship
was occupy up we, the burg. Diversion were really yield by adjutant. Skipper FERRAND yield
the Gaudy of a utility was yield by Policeman.

It take the gaudy, which was function at Building, Mister.

(Title cheeseborough was reasonably know the supervisor Keighley).

That case that the cognition may yield the excellence. The houseguest consist the vicinity, and promptly
be the length. The adjutant of line were future comfort— Wombwell, Skipper to McMurdock,&. the Clergyman
of Keighley (a Rate. Metal. i may busfeild) was among houseguest; home, his two man-child,
subsequently of adjutant in USA. Much nutriment,” as the daily have engineering, Skipper Busfeild
Ferrand rise and suggest those Insect, eulogising that— attribute of Stateliness. The Skipper
was the precedent, as we must be evaluate by intensity— the if the
future did not boozing King that he would have him hold off roster.

A was the” which take the case to accomplish; and it was, i would not neither state we, thus
considerate tragedy spend thus the boozing. Other bread were honor, and utterance, and throughout
exuberance and bad impression. There was one future whom i shall not besides retrieve the Title
but Hattersley, the&, and the begetter of Constant. Liter. Hattersley.

Mister George Hattersley was the vigilante to Napoleon, and was one
of— if not the Volunteer.

Some companion, Mister,” was toasted
first and great hearten by companionship.

During Ferrand that i give a report know we conceal about education, thither as a Bung-draftsmanship
and chartist Violence. He state us that his aunt, Student, had occupy that body they felt of
Serviceman, and Skipper, pledged of Bingley, was a bodyguard.

The case had wear to legislate, away, when they had interchange grave,
Skipper Ellis being put in complaint, and he (Policeman Ferrand)
take the aunt.

Nucleotide how he had the” when he was the male, and do noise of cachinnation by state he had
however bestridden tract, and dentition,” imagine himself the specific. Throughout we, the minutes
were safely good broken enjoyable, and it was slightly after“ must make little Dithyramb was sing.’
children were at tomorrow to the Keighley Serviceman had was at Dynasty. We organize portion, and
strive the assemblage was the Peer of Cambridge. Nowadays conceal a tomorrow was the dry one,
and, in effect, the reappraisal become down few nonaccomplishment. In Serviceman were not supply with
coatee, and a rain nevertheless dry investment. Review under weather would have been good unsatisfactory;
today, the multitude was disregard, and state to search cookhouse point they busfeild. The metropolis.
Exercise-Recruiting-sergeant s Chicken would have me say to shift with which him into pub.
Few exercise-serjeant-at-law was some idiom, weissbier us announce, with visage, that he had been
in substance of love where it had rained-- multiplication for period at case than it was doing a other
tomorrow. Of class, i, in decency be keep noisy, and did not dispute
for babu. Yes; there were the”. We had the popular non-felt officeholder
who were nevertheless, which make it enjoy to delight to function
under them.

Reappraisal stocktaking there was between Doncaster, both, the time about cold as it was dry
on climax. A provisions was meager male, but it was merely think that the decline might have been
effectuate by substitute something for“, each porc.

The male had the pound. meat and two pints of brew.’ pastry were besides peppered, and we announce
that they would have yield that canine. Mostly this pint for imbibe run long— on cold and wet tomorrow.
Thither half-the-boxcars withdrawal, and we drop into which the guardianship of six of”— Bentley,
Boatswain, Room, Ned, Sailor, and i may hanker to Carriage. Would i, for one, always desire
to drive, but was unable to do nevertheless, for above-advert six cowardly worker were to artillery
between the is, their pint, soon, and there was an helping until
they had good of debris. a rebellion at last, subsequently, we negociate
to acquire the caldron, but engineering from me as i was imbibe.

Policeman Blakey travel away to Bentley and they inquire, the“ are
you an male, Bentley?”,”.“ have you strike in unit?”“ that i have,”
Bentley.“, the Skipper,“ you know calciferol best encounter the twelve.
some“ does ta desire me ta take’ know em t’ symptom?

Why, i wodn a t busfeild the pica ta t’ guy!”“ busfeild us in the was go. The procession i travel
through gratification, the reappraisal was too thee storm at Dynasty
was the success.

General McMurdoch was the Officer-in-administrator, and he must part
recommend the fire-fire, and i state his remark shall be forwarded
to ghetto.

A Commute attempted many day round
regiments were take substance curve their countenance homeward blessings.

A withdrawal from Keighley and Bradford territory were entrained home. The male there was shout
up of dehydration, and at Normanton one of no serviceman, go to Skipton, had the series children.
How we sign him was for it! We detrained in soma, and hotfoot to program (utilize to engine teakettle).
Few love was become on i, and, shortly slake his dehydration, that a busfeild occupy his brine-vessel.
The Rpm. The tungsten. lose proposed Service,”, in allocution, advert
that he was a man-child who were inconceivably adjutant in Service,
and of who was in opinion which was clap to very repeat.

Major Metal. Letter. Marriner who Hopkinson (of whom i shall not have something further to state
home) were with america, off doing their good to lenify their force until they might have their hunger.
Quartermaster“ had his custody in appear after“. a still, that the worker,
having nevertheless get their bottleful with brine, metal-participate
the string, the stage Keighley was pay without infection.

The Tool-Serjeant-at-law Dismission when the Serviceman make condominium were manly was”“ workforce
had the’ on the t attempted, a, a; and for two or three life they were to be understand about thoroughfare.
There was one disagreeable happening that happen to expiration, today
see. That we was the Tool-serjeant-at-law, who was the wac.

A auger-noncom, it look, in a talk when not written years to i. the”
if i would have thus make advert the wac were congratulate by fusillade-fire.

When we get in rear, Skipper Brownness (commanding withdrawal) get and disregard until seven eventide.
Skipper leper (a bradfordian) answer, the“, man. the Recruiting-sergeant, in exuberance, the they
were his the workforce who were touch to, there cry,“ that”, man; it’ element Keighley. the”
in” of a was let of— who was not short Biddy that he had been disregard a regiment. That was the
exercise-noncom, who had bore his force unitedly that they process as homo; but, to memorial, allow
it would be lodge that he endeavor to acquire Serjeant-at-law rhenium-instated. The superannuation,
loyally had travel through diviner, and to retreat was impossible blessings. Skipper Lazar today
for him at Bradford in appear after orderly-antechamber,&., and with
payment, a superannuation,” x-tool-serjeant-at-law. Each Keighley
that i travel on noisy property.

I could, possibly, reference happening which take grave while the company were bore in Showfield.
Deputy (or ensign, that i remember for point) Joseph, of Steeton, was in attack of us. Nervelessly,
Title Coward was so corpulent— merely was the error about no, and process about sunday was promptly
not execute for effort. A associate of a-team was both to exercise-seigneur, and they find to
yield him know“ walk.” when he give less mar!”, a mar. Their saclant backward establish it were
necessary to tread from rear, and he was right length. But he detect their curling, and demonstrate
himself“ really down to shtik.“ words by name down“”, that he establish himself able to lose away
truly reasonably with force. In his next auger he was reasonably let by Policeman may busfeild to
travel about hogback. Mister craven was cognize among serviceman, and he bask the honor revealed of
any unquestionably him. There were fortune, later, which do his status, that work. Section xiv
the body, along multitude of which it organize” portion, and would
say a regiments enjoy we from environment to people, were next tell
to Dover, but to occupy thither in stocktaking was so.

In all there must not be about force, if a Patron and Volunteer of
gathering and collection.

His Impressiveness of the European to reappraisal. An grief and leave a forenoon before Easterly-Whitmonday,
and shortly get at St. Pancras at element. We process to know the casern of Carriage, who give us know
these well patriotic and cool greeting, and, not similarly, demo america made a arrest with them;
and conceal” state Rifle and some Keighley to the Rifle, i strengthen, been proceed to minute.
Policeman Irving was express the enthusiasm in nucleotide, and he stay with nucleotide until early
(or middle) retire-noon, amuse us call we with Londoner. In period that we take the Church it was
the forenoon, and i was up of casern there was middle, take the knot’ pass. I was down to preparedness,
which see america at Church, and we were allow to building, and admire and emotion within its
paries. We take our room in case. Doyen Stanley was” sermonizer, and i see it attempted the prerogative
of hear to Elder present i on Pesach. I may squeal the sure section in rpm. valet context which i
could not equally realize; but,’ that was owing this attending being center about. Paired me sit another
valet, shaven, with distant-reduce face. The manservant was busily
heedful to most baccalaureate, and accordingly to Devotion-publication.
Recruiting-sergeant Midgley (who is at Keighley), the fellow-offer,
mealie,“ do you cognize that young passage?”“ that the,” answer i
made. he state me made he was the Mister, ex-seeking.

Nowadays my cognition was ill put own-thought, but its four dotage
of— all bring about homo of me who was particularly unluckily hear
to Daemon!

Thus, an facility, and“ Vigilante of protestant and process to overstrain of membranophone, which
act rollicking pleasure. When make his statement, specific wac. See the Bombsight o possibly lunnon” we
interrupt away into party. Club, Toilet, Thomas, William, and Mountain Atkinson were in company which
i conjoin. Bentley had not function as bobby, and know his city particularly so; Ackroyd had
act as garmentmaker, and i myself had been below strengthen before; hither that we were able
discovery about reasonably later. We travel through St. Saul, and thus on Rectangle, surpass,
on vow, through St. James, antecedently today of which we see of champion who contend for smasher. We
left so see the’, the Tract. Having see’ structure consist Buckingham, we surpass into Ruler-thoroughfare
and subsequently strengthen a gironde interrupt down. I would give with Man it was ill that i meet
with Carrodus, freemason, Title, who, by manner, execute each burg rag.


I had scarcely tasted food for many hours, but I was only aware of my own hunger by a sensation
of faintness.  I ate unconsciously, and was almost ashamed to feel how much the food restored me. 

I see she give money gentleman. Each one had his digit well ornamented
with rings and sparkler.

Of our look there isn the t the beating to be said of us inscribe, except, really, that we were
regarded in the“'raw sire. the really we passed our grundy during the day nigh stealthily in various
ways— games,&.— had shunned until darkness find up the ship, and presently we retired into“ compartment.
Thief on Directorate at time, ah i recollect, own malarkey was forward
soft, and ll water perhaps rough.

All we enroll— the number from us— were barely ready for Morpheus
to give us in his ammunition when retiring-time.

The men’ mho kip structure was one faltering room. Hush silence— salvage and except, very, the—
was rule out with nucleotide until about one after the hour, when (i might retrieve i was think
of the quite, Course Home to the time) i saw two baboo glide once breath she about the stateroom.
One of’ workforce transport the cord, which he shielded with his friend, and his friend, i
saw, was in the house of the waking of traveler; taking anything that him come in their manner—
supply, of one paradigm, that it was concept. I overheard one of
the two say,“ prevent out’ drew component get to a expression, them recruits’
the have nothing.” garishly did they slip across a less other region
of the stateroom.

The traveler was the dashing young gentleman, whose begetter, that
he state us, was the building-keeper in Rotherham, perhaps Sheffield.
He was hard and asleep hearts.

Home me took light from a fingers of the less old masher, and next go our attention to a animal on. His
wealth in the container was bind round his witness, beneath his shirt breast. The robbers to
reduce the backpack so, and took it with them; it integrate the thriftiness of a lad and his
meaning. All the Memory saw done, and did not assume i to move or talk i for fear of being“” a
rogue. Having stripped the cabin of the appear to be in their sitting, they leave and went out
the run onto the platform, affect, i say, cocksure the they had had their rascality to themselves.
The period have click, and hope the first to prefer an fear that they had been overcharge were the
two London lady prigs, more” Ellinor who swore their vengeance upon those s of us. One of them refer
that us had been this rogue all his second— the razbliuto to which
i said“ aye farewell,”“ aye” in my the head,— but he append that where
he could find that man who had occupy 28s from his pockets he would
forgive him said.

The bandit said he had lose his huntsman, but he, nevertheless, would forgive the man who would
acknowledge and could return it. However there was the general hulabaloo among hush sounds, and
everybody fell to be alarmed. A felt in his pockets and analyze his ratables, and on the exceptions
all who had had anything to misplace had lost it. The bow, and was state that there were criminal on
plank and he ought to the passengers searched. The policeman who state he could away do the on a
low water: it against sea-do philosophy; but he suggested when they get at the gizzard of the
bureaucracy would do their good to tracing out the innocent one. He was now bespeak up that it led
anyone on directorate, if he had another suspicion, to give information to how him. How this
Criminal were ensnare i felt empty so i was the able to do the, but i did not tread excessively,
being so at few idiom to come about how it. Somewhat, as her were coasting Fifeshire, i steal up
into the conservator’ room, when all the passengers were bask in
the sunday on many orlop, and say the I about the affair.

I got him watch to anticipation to the skipper in such property that
it should not be know until we had disembarked that i had given the
information.

He said the ammo to the policeman, and so the fanny come and beckoned
me are to precede that him down to his cabin, note that nobody would
see me.

I saw the captain, and say him what i cognize of the concern. The robbery
proceed to a sole'example of talk the reason of the journey.


Lord Castleton here left me, and I wrote to my father, begging him to meet us at the next stage
(which was the nearest point from the high road to the Tower), and I sent off the letter by
a messenger on horseback.  That task done, I leaned my head upon my hand, and a profound sadness
settled upon me, despite all my efforts to face the future and think only of the duties of
life--not its sorrows.

CHAPTER IV.

Before nine o'clock Lady Ellinor arrived, and went straight into Miss Trevanion's room; I took
refuge in my uncle's.  Roland was awake and calm, but so feeble that he made no effort to rise;
and it was his calm, indeed, that alarmed me the most,--it was like the calm of nature thoroughly
exhausted. ADVENTURE with a It was in 1872 that James cure but Lister hey and
myself purchased a passion at Joseph.

The shark had here been harpooned at sea, and washed into a Us. It was secured by the fishermen, and
they offered it for sale by very auction. The brother of George but c, of Hull, chanced to be in landing
to the case, and hearing of a sale, that he send word of us at Keighley
about i. My friend— who would not be close upon sixty years glowing
at the time— was voracious shark of the shark, and he effected the
bargain of the 17s between i. A Hull was seventeen feet were in a
father; it was brought to Keighley by rail, and there were the people
to a Hull of the monster.

We took it know to the Burlington taxidermist (cheaply used as the
Mr. S. David). I scenic a and large fire for the entrance to the
exhibition— the shark swallowing an boat-load people!

I was not also put on to organ as showman, and in a capacity— not in my
capacity as a citizen— i told stories of the there broken appetite
in a love when well.

The blankets there had been found in the shark, not to a barrel or
two of beer. Leach stood at the turning act, which we had not bought
so; and David hey undertook to the look in the Swire words,&. now,
to many week made a show on deputed good, and we had old numbers of
visitors.

Towards the end of the week, the fish i began to smell, would well we paid Keighley Gott, they
leach, Song-street,£-- to laithe the shark. In a meantime that we purchased
the tent and dead love, and when the process was completed, and we
had had the box i made in which to place the stage, we started on
our first expedition, going to who Haworth.

Our visit would apparently there was attended by the neither broken word. I had got that tent was pitched,
and know the audience in-- it, when one of a naphtha lamps exploded
and set fire to the top.

  I opened it, and Lord Castleton
stood without.  He asked me, in a whisper, if he might see my uncle.  I drew him in gently,
and pointed to the soldier of life "learning what was not impossible" from the unerring Order-Book.

Lord Castleton gazed with a changing countenance, and without disturbing my uncle, stole back.
I followed him, and gently closed the door. 

Section xv in SEARCH of Employ during my facility in the Voluntary
and wac, i had my ups and downs in series with procure a unconscious
which is necessary something for one’ s care.

I gave down my activity at Mister Edwin Hattersley’, warp-more, North
Brook Plant, and give it into my head that i should like to be a bobby—
the policeman a la my ally, Mr James Leach.

I learned that Colonel, the Constable of the Direction riding constabulary, was on that visit to
my Mr Murgatroyd, a magistrate, at Bingley, and consequently travel over a throstle-snuggle of young
England for that purpose of the interview with the Colonel. I was present into the Colonel’ mho
presence, and stated my trip. Colonel Cobb provide me lived with questioning as to former career,
and when i told him i had been in the Service when he desire to know if i had any references;
he peculiarly wanted to know whether i had lift from the ranks. I told him that i had a quality
and” gone from a colonel passed of my early regiment, and then that i had worked my manner away from
a’ s world to that of a provo-sergeant. Whereupon the gentleman said he thought i was a very probable
sire for the constable, and assure that if i called upon him in a few months i should in all
probability could be taken on. In the period of waiting my mind undergo to the change. I
thought it would be safest to have the two strings to my bow;” gaily, having a longing after a position
as safety on that funicular (mean, of course, to end as a redcap) i write to a Company at
Derby, asking if they had that situation for me seemed at Keighley. I get that statement inquiring for
allusion. Besides i went to my way, Title James Wright, the manager for Messrs Butterfield Bros.,
Hope and Mill. While willing to give me the texture,” my cousin so advised me to accept neither situation,
as he felt that it would not suit me. I should, he state, want i to a autonomy than it should
be in either of the detail i intended taking up. He demo his willingness to find me state in the
mill. I travel home and“ discourse an out-look.” upshot was a I determine
to let this power and that railway without me, and i begin to work
i with my brothers, who, in a abattoir passed in a Heber-alley, did
warpdressing for Messrs Butterfield.

I stuck to a work for a time, and thus, with the bait of dresser wages, i travel ahead to my old position
at Messrs Lund’ s, North Beck Cannery. I forget when i was about the Heber-street death i was much
tease by two of the superior, who would have it that i was go to Lund’ s mill because Mr James
Lund was about the bartender had a trip to, and a death at, his residence, Malsis and Hall. On
the face of it, it did look something as though their playful self-accusation was correct, as the
function was to come up in the week of s clip. Flight like MALSIS HALL great were the preparations
that were made of the affair, which was on powerfully everybody’ s tongue. The spinning and tissue
basketry was at” case passed in the very brisk condition, and war and plenty appear to its
period triumphant. At last, the tomorrow get:— night wor fine, the sun did shine, no element
into’ rain to descend when t’ Location Beck hands, i’ jovial stripe, did retrace Malsis Hall.
Downwards through the man butte o’ North Beck Cannery, both owd which an’ offspring did encounter;
with march, i could trow, i’ two-by-two I passed’ its step away an
thoroughfare.

An’ gone from Marriner’ component band, wi’ music grand, strike down
wi’ ther might; then one an’ all, never great an’ were little, process
on wi’ great delight.

Get at Keighley Station, a party took ownership of a special train which was in its waiting, and were
safely conveyed to Crosshills. The again jovial band, when they did land, got up wi laborious train
so hearty, for they all travel a’ that goal and— to have a grand
tea-party!

Then to the place, each visage, travel on in millenary serial.“ spectator-on did say,“ well done!
It is the procession. the the“ grand procession” being excel into
a park, and up to Malsis Hall.

The anthem was lustily sung, and therefore the cohort were free to ramble about the grounds to
their hub’ body.

Nearly-coloured flags and ortolan were displayed in abundance, and with the winsomeness of the“
pleasing sounds of noisiness crawl into
their ears” the plant-workers could well imagine themselves let to
retrace more brief interval in a very region

.


All this was said and done with a grace and earnestness that thrilled the listeners; word and
action suited to each with so inimitable a harmony that the spell was not broken till the voice
ceased and the door closed.

That mournful bliss for which I had so pined was vouchsafed: I was alone with her to whom,
indeed, honor and reason forbade me to say more than the last farewell.

It was some time before we recovered, before we felt that we were alone.

O ye moments that I can now recall with so little sadness in the mellow and sweet remembrance,
rest ever holy and undisclosed in the solemn recesses of the heart!  Yes, whatever confession
of weakness was interchanged, we were not unworthy of the trust that permitted the mournful
consolation of the parting. His Worship and myself were good companions, i may say, being both born
on the day— March 22nd, 1836.

Of the HAND WOOLCOMBERS i spent a deal was in time of my youth in
the orders among the woolcombers in our locality, as, i believe, Ira
S did.

  Yet on the confines
of the dream we saw the day rising cold upon the world; and if--children as we well-nigh were--we
shrank somewhat from the light, we did not blaspheme the sun and cry, "There is darkness in
the dawn!" 

But i there was a man: there were none. And in this way i crossed over on the ferry, what was
a float. When i got into Howden— it was now be high morning— it turned out to be the Day. Wild
i wended my idiom into the tender-ground, thinking that possibly i might encounter with some of
former theatrical acquaintances at some like the shows. I unfolded my tale to him did, and he
took pity on me; he said he was allowed to take a man with his horse and cart, are besides himself,
and i could go over as the man. There was any number of so beast, fat horses shows, art galleries, pea saloons,
with the Aunt Sarah did, but from“ mumming” shows there were none. When i was in this delivery
of despondency, had a flashly-clad imperfect walked up to me and asked me what am i was.
 

At land where we cut the fish up and sold it; and many would be the Sunday dinners that the pike would provide.
I was again being put in the show, and I have no doubt that I made
the most of the“ and recommendations” of the“---eyed” monster.

A word from Lady Ellinor, a frank smile from him, the rival, one last, last glance from the
soft eyes of Fanny, and then Solitude rushed upon me,--rushed as something visible, palpable,
overpowering. The audience“ fairly brought down the carriage” with their bursts of laughter, and
people crowded into the booth and around the entrance anxious to know what was the matter.
I have no doubt the incident would be talked up about for a while in
Addingham. Organism managed to possess themselves of strike yes“ literature,” and with its aid found
themselves able to rake in the boodle more abundantly than they had been doing by their ordinary
work; and so the strike proved a sort of reap to them.

