MEMOIRS OF LOUIS XIV AND HIS COURT AND OF THE REGENCY

                        BY THE DUKE OF SAINT-SIMON

                      CONTENTS OF THE 15 VOLUMES

                                VOLUME 1.

CHAPTER I

Birth and Family.--Early Life.--Desire to join the Army.--Enter the Musketeers.--The Campaign
Commences.--Camp of Gevries.--Siege of Namur. --Dreadful Weather.--Gentlemen Carrying Corn.--Sufferings
during the Siege.--The Monks of Marlaigne.--Rival Couriers.--Naval Battle.-- Playing with Fire-arms.--A
Prediction Verified.

CHAPTER II

The King's Natural Children.--Proposed Marriage of the Duc de Chartres.-- Influence of Dubois.--The
Duke and the King.--An Apartment.--Announcement of the Marriage.--Anger of Madame.--Household
of the Duchess.--Villars and Rochefort.--Friend of King's Mistresses.--The Marriage Ceremony.--
Toilette of the Duchess.--Son of Montbron.--Marriage of M. du Maine.-- Duchess of Hanover.--Duc
de Choiseul.--La Grande Mademoiselle.

CHAPTER III

Death of My Father.--Anecdotes of Louis XIII.--The Cardinal de Richelieu.--The Duc de Bellegarde.--Madame
de Hautefort.--My Father's Enemy.--His Services and Reward.--A Duel against Law.--An Answer
to a Libel.--M. de la Rochefoucauld.--My Father's Gratitude to Louis XIII.

CHAPTER IV

Position of the Prince of Orange.--Strange Conduct of the King.--Surprise and Indignation.--Battle
of Neerwinden.--My Return to Paris.--Death of La Vauguyon.--Symptoms of Madness.--Vauguyon
at the Bastille.--Projects of Marriage.--M. de Beauvilliers.--A Negotiation for a Wife.--My
Failure.-- Visit to La Trappe.

CHAPTER V

M. de Luxemhourg's Claim of Precedence.--Origin of the Claim.--Duc de Piney.--Character of
Harlay.--Progress of the Trial.--Luxembourg and Richelieu.--Double-dealing of Harlay.--The
Duc de Gesvres.--Return to the Seat of War.--Divers Operations.--Origin of These Memoirs. 

The garden began with flowers, fruit and vegetables, but showed that he in the distance with
would have to terminate something that looked like a deciduous forest. Everything was kept
clean and beautiful. The Garden was also populated with feathered residents, and they had similar
devices as in Asperhof. The trees were therefore excellent, and healthy. Rosen showed too many,
not only in such special groups as my host. The greenhouses the gardens were expanded and maintained far
larger and more carefully than in the Asperhof. The gardener, a young and, it seemed, educated man,
received us with courtesy and awe at the entrance thereof. He showed me his treasures with more
accuracy than I with the consideration for my companion to whom nothing was new, compatible
stopped. There were many plants from other parts of the world there, both in the warm than
in cold home. Particularly He was pleased about his rich collection of pineapple, which has its own
place in a greenhouse . Revenue

Not far behind the greenhouse was a group of lime trees, which almost as beautiful and were
as large as those in the garden of Asperhof. Nor was the sand under their shade roof so clean swept,
and in order to complete the resemblance, ran on the same finches, buntings, Stonechat and
other birds so gently down, like on the sand of the Rose house. That Benches under the linden
trees were, of course. The lime tree is the tree of comfort. Where would be a linden tree in
the German states - and certainly it is also so in others - not under the a bench stand or executed
on the side of which is not an image or not a chapel THERE. The beauty of their structure, the
superiority of its roof and the shadow social Totals of life in their branches to invite. We
went into the shade of the trees.

"This is actually the most beautiful place in the Sternenhof," said
Matilda, "and everyone who visited the garden, it must rest here a
little, therefore you shall continue to do so.

"

With that, she pointed to the benches, almost in an arc of the tribes of the Linden and stood
behind them, a wall built green bushes. We sat down. The hum, as it always is in these trees was
evenly over our heads, the silent running of the birds over the clean
sand was before our eyes and occasional Aufflug in the trees dyes
his light in our ears.

After a while I noticed that even with a low noise interruptions should
be heard same time as it would now isput a slight breeze, not now.

I voiced tell me about it.

"You have heard right," said Mathilde, "we will see the same thing."

We
got up and walked along a narrow sandy paths through the thickets,
which are small in Distance behind the lime trees were located.

CHAPTER XIV

Gervaise Monk of La Trappe.----His Disgusting Profligacy.--The Author of the Lord's Prayer.--A
Struggle for Precedence.--Madame de Saint-Simon.-- The End of the Quarrel.--Death of the Chevalier
de Coislin.--A Ludicrous Incident.--Death of Racine.--The King and the Poet.--King Pays Debts
of Courtiers.--Impudence of M. de Vendome.--A Mysterious Murder.-- Extraordinary Theft.

CHAPTER XV

The Farrier of Salon.--Apparition of a Queen.--The Farrier Comes to Versailles.--Revelations
to the Queen.--Supposed Explanation.-- New Distinctions to the Bastards.--New Statue of the
King.-- Disappointment of Harlay.--Honesty of Chamillart.--The Comtesse de Fiesque.--Daughter
of Jacquier.--Impudence of Saumery.--Amusing Scene.-- Attempted Murder.

CHAPTER XVI

Reform at Court.--Cardinal Delfini.--Pride of M. de Monaco.--Early Life of Madame de Maintenon.--Madame
de Navailles.--Balls at Marly.--An Odd Mask.--Great Dancing--Fortunes of Langlee.--His Coarseness.--The
Abbe de Soubise.--Intrigues for His Promotion.--Disgrace and Obstinacy of Cardinal de Bouillon.

CHAPTER XVII

A Marriage Bargain.--Mademoiselle de Mailly.--James II.--Begging Champagne.--A Duel.--Death
of Le Notre.--His Character.--History of Vassor.--Comtesse de Verrue and Her Romance with M.
de Savoie.--A Race of Dwarfs.--An Indecorous Incident.--Death of M. de La Trappe.

                                VOLUME 3.

CHAPTER XVIII

Settlement of the Spanish Succession.--King William III.--New Party in Spain.--Their Attack
on the Queen.--Perplexity of the King.--His Will.-- Scene at the Palace.--News Sent to France.--Council
at Madame de Maintenon's.--The King's Decision.--A Public Declaration.--Treatment of the New
King.--His Departure for Spain.--Reflections.--Philip V. Arrives in Spain.--The Queen Dowager
Banished. 

"I asked after the first night that I spent in your home, a peasant man, who gave me the answer that
ye may be the Asper Farmer. The same day I searched even further away, without learning anything
for certain. Later I never asked. "

"And why do not you have asked before?"

"You have not mentioned to me, whence I concluded that it is not necessary
kept your to tell me your name, and from that I drew for me the measure
rule that I could not ask you, and if I ask you not allowed, could I also
some other not. "

"They call me here in the neighborhood the Asperherrn" he replied,
"because it is customary for us, the owner of a property to the estate,
not to name it after his family.

That name will inherit in terms of all the owners continued with the people , this has changed
with a change of the acquis, and because the people always had to relearn a new name, to which
it is much too persevering. Some people also call me the country Asper Farmer, as my predecessor has
told. " "I had heard the call again by chance your real name," I said.
"You will then also know that I've been in government services,"
he said.

"I know," I said. "I was not the same for suitable," he replied. "Then
she says something to contradict all the people I've heard about you.

They praise total of your government career," I replied.

"You may look at some individual results," he replied, "but they
do not know with what hardship is incurred these have come from my
heart.

You can not know were even as the results become, when another of
equal ability, But of more Gemuetseignung for the civil service, or
if not one of even larger gifts they would have helped.

" "It can be said of every thing," I replied.

"It can be," he replied, "then are we to that which is not just failed,
and not praise immediately.

Listen to me. The civil service or the service of the universal nature at all, as it has developed to
date, includes a large number of people.

For this service are also required by the laws of a certain education and a certain sequence of stages
in obtaining this training and required needs. The after is now the hope exists that one after
the completion of the required training and their levels of Ganges at once found in the civil
service employment and that he will be putting up at an appropriate
time in those higher authorities, which grant a family a decent maintenance
to devote more or fewer youths of the state's career.

From the number of those who have completed with success the required
education ., selects the state's servants and must choose on the whole
it is probably no doubt that people also outside of this circle men
of talent the civil service are of great talent, even of extraordinary
talent, but the state can, those unusual cases settled, where their
talent through special coincidences to appearance arrives and you
are stepping with the State interacted dont vote because he does not
know and because choosing without more knowledge and without this
guarantee of acquired training required risk and threatened to confusion
and failure management bring in the business could.

How, then, those who have completed the preparatory years are constructed, it must take the state. Often,
even great talents in large numbers are lower, they are often in smaller, often on the average
only its there. This quality of his person substance now, the state had found the body of his service.


CHAPTER XXXII

Death of M. de Duras.--Selfishness of the King.--Anecdote of Puysieux.-- Character of Pontchartrain.--Why
He Ruined the French Fleet.--Madame des Ursins at Last Resolves to Return to Spain.--Favours
Heaped upon Her.-- M. de Lauzun at the Army.--His bon mot.--Conduct of M. de Vendome.-- Disgrace
and Character of the Grand Prieur.

                                VOLUME 5.

CHAPTER XXXIII

A Hunting Adventure.--Story and Catastrophe of Fargues.--Death and Character of Ninon de l'Enclos.--Odd
Adventure of Courtenvaux.--Spies at Court.--New Enlistment.--Wretched State of the Country.--Balls
at Marly.

CHAPTER XXXIV

Arrival of Vendome at Court.--Character of That Disgusting Personage.-- Rise of Cardinal Alberoni.--Vendome's
Reception at Marly.--His Unheard-of Triumph.--His High Flight.--Returns to Italy.--Battle of
Calcinato.-- Condition of the Army.--Pique of the Marechal de Villeroy.--Battle of Ramillies.--Its
Consequences.

CHAPTER XXXV

Abandonment of the Siege of Barcelona.--Affairs of Italy.-- La Feuillade.--Disastrous Rivalries.--Conduct
of M. d'Orleans.--The Siege of Turin.--Battle.--Victory of Prince Eugene.--Insubordination
in the Army.--Retreat.--M. d'Orleans Returns to Court.--Disgrace of La Feuillade

CHAPTER XXXVI

Measures of Economy.--Financial Embarrassments.--The King and Chamillart.--Tax on Baptisms
and Marriages.--Vauban's Patriotism.-- Its Punishment.--My Action with M. de Brissac.--I Appeal
to the King.-- The Result.--I Gain My Action.

CHAPTER XXXVII

My Appointment as Ambassador to Rome.--How It Fell Through.--Anecdotes of the Bishop of Orleans.--A
Droll Song.--A Saint in Spite of Himself.-- Fashionable Crimes.--A Forged Genealogy.--Abduction
of Beringhen.-- The 'Parvulos' of Meudon and Mademoiselle Choin.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

Death and Last Days of Madame de Montespan.--Selfishness of the King.-- Death and Character
of Madame de Nemours.--Neufchatel and Prussia.-- Campaign of Villars.--Naval Successes.--Inundations
of the Loire.--Siege of Toulon.--A Quarrel about News.--Quixotic Despatches of Tesse.

                                VOLUME 6.

CHAPTER XXXIX

Precedence at the Communion Table.--The King Offended with Madame de Torcy.--The King's Religion.--Atheists
and Jansenists.--Project against Scotland.--Preparations.--Failure.--The Chevalier de St. George.--His
Return to Court.

CHAPTER XL

Death and Character of Brissac.--Brissac and the Court Ladies.--The Duchesse de Bourgogne.--Scene
at the Carp Basin.--King's Selfishness.-- The King Cuts Samuel Bernard's Purse.--A Vain Capitalist.--Story
of Leon and Florence the Actress.--His Loves with Mademoiselle de Roquelaure.-- Run--away Marriage.--Anger
of Madame de Roquelaure.--A Furious Mother.-- Opinions of the Court.--A Mistake.--Interference
of the King.-- Fate of the Couple .

CHAPTER XLI

The Duc d'Orleans in Spain.--Offends Madame des Ursins and Madame de Maintenon.--Laziness of
M. de Vendome in Flanders.--Battle of Oudenarde. --Defeat and Disasters.--Difference of M.
de Vendome and the Duc de Bourgogne.

CHAPTER XLII

Conflicting Reports.--Attacks on the Duc de Bourgogne.--The Duchesse de Bourgogne Acts against
Vendome.--Weakness of the Duke.--Cunning of Vendome.--The Siege of Lille.--Anxiety for a Battle.--Its
Delay.--Conduct of the King and Monseigneur.--A Picture of Royal Family Feeling.--Conduct of
the Marechal de Boufflers.

CHAPTER XLIII

Equivocal Position of the Duc de Bourgogne.--His Weak Conduct.-- Concealment of a Battle from
the King.--Return of the Duc de Bourgogne to Court.--Incidents of His Reception.--Monseigneur.--Reception
of the Duc de Berry.--Behaviour of the Duc de Bourgogne.--Anecdotes of Gamaches.-- Return of
Vendome to Court.--His Star Begins to Wane.--Contrast of Boufflers and Vendome.--Chamillart's
Project for Retaking Lille.--How It Was Defeated by Madame de Maintenon.

CHAPTER XLIV

Tremendous Cold in France.--Winters of 1708-1709--Financiers and the Famine.--Interference
of the Parliaments of Paris and Dijon.--Dreadful Oppression.--Misery of the People.--New Taxes.--Forced
Labour.--General Ruin.--Increased Misfortunes.--Threatened Regicide.--Procession of Saint Genevieve.--Offerings
of Plate to the King.--Discontent of the People.-- A Bread Riot, How Appeased.

CHAPTER XLV

M. de Vendome out of Favour.--Death and Character of the Prince de Conti.--Fall of Vendome.--Pursegur's
Interview with the King.--Madame de Bourgogne against Vendome.--Her Decided Conduct.--Vendome
Excluded from Marly.--He Clings to Meudon.--From Which He is also Expelled.--His Final Disgrace
and Abandonment.--Triumph of Madame de Maintenon.

CHAPTER XLVI

Death of Pere La Chaise.--His Infirmities in Old Age.--Partiality of the King.--Character of
Pere La Chaise.--The Jesuits.--Choice of a New Confessor.--Fagon's Opinion.--Destruction of
Port Royal.--Jansenists and Molinists.--Pascal.--Violent Oppression of the Inhabitants of Port
Royal.

                                VOLUME 7.

CHAPTER XLVII

Death of D'Avaux.--A Quarrel about a Window.--Louvois and the King.-- Anecdote of Boisseuil.--Madame
de Maintenon and M. de Beauvilliers.-- Harcourt Proposed for the Council.--His Disappointment.--Death
of M. le Prince.--His Character.--Treatment of His Wife.--His Love Adventures.-- His Madness.--A
Confessor Brought.--Nobody Regrets Him.

CHAPTER XLVIII

Progress of the War.--Simplicity of Chamillart.--The Imperialists and the Pope.--Spanish Affairs.--Duc
d'Orleans and Madame des Ursins.--Arrest of Flotte in Spain.--Discovery of the Intrigues of
the Duc d'Orleans.--Cabal against Him.--His Disgrace and Its Consequences.

CHAPTER XLIX

Danger of Chamillart.--Witticism of D'Harcourt.--Faults of Chamillart.-- Court Intrigues against
Him.--Behaviour of the Courtiers.--Influence of Madame de Maintenon.--Dignified Fall of Chamillart.--He
is Succeeded by Voysin.--First Experience of the New Minister.--The Campaign in Flanders.--Battle
of Malplaquet. The
fight in this direction is fortkaempfen, he has emerged as new human relationships came in, the
roar of which I spoke will be more than ever how long it will take that evil will arise, I can
not say, but It is followed by a clarification, the superiority of the substance before the spirit
that will finally win it, be a mere power he needed, and because he has made a new human profit,
will be a time of greatness, in the History has not been there. I believe that such steps to be
climbed in stages for thousands of years. How far does it go, how will it end as it is, an
earthly mind can not fathom. Only this seems sure to come a different time and different versions
of life are, however much of what the mind and body of man is inherent in the last reason
insist like.

"We went into some individuals of this substance and treated it of driving and investigated
the possible consequences indicated. Especially are branches called the natural sciences, which
had progressed preferably, and to gain influence, seemed like the chemistry and others. Roland was
chosen for novelty, though they all knocked over, my host and Eustace harbored the desire to see that
new, which is to remain, because it is good - for how much new is not good - just Gradually, find
space and naturalized without great disturbance to want so the transition is longer, but it is a
quieter and. its consequences are permanent.

After dinner the conversation turned to the fountain nymph in Sternenhof, and my host told me how
they had been purchased. A man who was distantly related to Matilda, had made his great fortune
or inheritance. He moved to collections. He had coins, he had sealed, he had Celtic and Roman
antiquities, music devices, tulips and dahlias, books, paintings and Bildsaeulen. He built in his
garden at his house, which stood a little elevated, a large area, the he paved with stone
and artificial stone of which steps in several directions to the garden went down. On the parapets
of this area and the surrounds of the stairs were Bildsaeulen set. it belongs to the greatest
pleasures of the man on the surface and down to go. He did so often, when the hot sun in the sky
and the pavement was burning in the soles. In addition, he also had Bildsaeulen on the steps
of the house and in the rooms. The nymph, who has now Matilda, he had a sacred well in the garden.
He had inherited from his Grosso homes. It should have been the teenage years of the same by an
Italian sculptor manufactured for a Prince, whose faster frustrated Todfall the pass to their destination.
They came after several random about the Grosso home, had connections with the artists. It is said that
this Bildsaeule is the beginning of the Bildsaeulenliebhaberei cousin Matilda was. the death of
this man, there was a last will prior written that all art works to art lovers and art lovers, are not
sold to dealers and that the money for that and the other things he left behind, and that the latter
should be distributed according to a Schaetzungswerte, among his distant relatives, for children
or close relatives he had not because now the nymph was the most beautiful work of art far, which
he. possessed, as Matilda had always admired, because she was already in possession of the court
and Stern had been placed in the same beautiful painting: it was not difficult for you to identify
yourself as an art lover and to purchase the statue.

CHAPTER LXIV

The King of Spain a Widower.--Intrigues of Madame des Ursins.--Choice of the Princes of Parma.--The
King of France Kept in the Dark.--Celebration of the Marriage.--Sudden Fall of the Princesse
des Ursins.--Her Expulsion from Spain.

CHAPTER LXV

The King of Spain Acquiesces in the Disgrace of Madame des Ursins.--Its Origin.--Who Struck
the Blow.--Her journey to Versailles.--Treatment There.--My Interview with Her.--She Retires
to Genoa.--Then to Rome.-- Dies.

CHAPTER LXVI

Sudden Illness of the Duc de Berry--Suspicious Symptoms.--The Duchess Prevented from Seeing
Him.--His Death.--Character.--Manners of the Duchesse de Berry.

CHAPTER LXVII

Maisons Seeks My Acquaintance.--His Mysterious Manner.--Increase of the Intimacy.--Extraordinary
News.--The Bastards Declared Princes of the Blood.--Rage of Maisons and Noailles.--Opinion
of the Court and Country.

CHAPTER LXVIII

The King Unhappy and Ill at Ease.--Court Paid to Him.--A New Scheme to Rule Him.--He Yields.--New
Annoyance.--His Will.--Anecdotes Concerning It.--Opinions of the Court.--M. du Maine

CHAPTER LXIX

A New Visit from Maisons.--His Violent Project.--My Objections.--He Persists.--His Death and
That of His Wife. --Death of the Duc de Beauvilliers.--His Character.--Of the Cardinal d'Estrees.--Anecdotes.--
Death of Fenelon. The afternoon we gathered Back
in the dining room, the afternoon was teaching hours and the rest of the day was to Talks, walks,
visits to the garden or, especially if it rains was used for the Community Read a book. What
you could do in the outdoors, was settled rather than in outdoor rooms. Especially this purpose,
the stay under the Linnendaechern most suitable home, the loved, the mother very much. For hours she was
with some female Work and the children with their writing tools or books on this busy place. This
was particularly the case when the morning sun durchwuerzte the air, but not yet had so much energy
to heat the walls and spoil your stay in them.
 When I talked to everyone,
they were so glad I'd come back even though it was during this season
of the year.

I walked the farm and checked out the grove of fruit trees across from the garden. In winter the small
door there was kept unlocked in wintertime, so I went into the gardener's apartment. I left
my guard coat there and waded in the river or sat on the bench outside the Furnace.


CHAPTER LXXIII

