What is our part and what is our righteousness in all this Process of the Saviour? This--that
we obey, and that we renounce our own will, accepting and abiding by the Will of God: and this
self-lending, self-surrender, this sacrifice of self-will is counted to us for sufficient righteousness
to merit heavenly life. But from first to last we remain conscious that we have no righteousness
of our own, that we are very small and full of weaknesses, and remain unable to think or say,
"This is my righteousness, I am righteous," any more than a man standing bathed in, or receiving
the sunlight can say or think, "I am the sun." Is all this, then, as much as to say that we
can sit down and do nothing; but, leaving all to Christ, we merely believe, and because of
this believing our redemption is accomplished? No, for we have an active part to play, a part
that God never dispenses with--the active keeping of the will in an active state of practical
obedience, submission, humble uncomplaining endurance through every kind of test. What will
these perhaps too much dreaded tests be that He will put us through? He will make use of the
difficulties, opportunities, temptations, and events of everyday life in the world (which difficulties
we should have to pass through whether we become regenerated or not) down to the smallest act,
the most secret thought, the most hidden intention and desire. But through it all it is the
Great Physician Himself who cures, and we are no more able to perform these changes of regeneration
in heart and mind than we are able to perform a critical operation on our own body. So He takes
our vanities and, one by one, strews them among the winds, and we raise no protest; takes our
prides and breaks them in pieces, and we submit; takes our self-gratifications and reduces
them to dust, and we stand stripped but patient; takes the natural lusts of the creature and
transfigures them to Holy Love. And in all this pain of transition, what is the Divine Anaesthetic
that He gives us? His Grace.

Having submitted to all that Christ esteems necessary for our regeneration, what does He set
us to? Service. Glad, happy service to all who may need it. He has wonderful ways of making
us acquainted with His especial friends, and it pleases Him to make us the means of answering
the prayers of His poor for help, to their great wonder and joy and to the increase of their
faith in Him. Also He uses us as a human spark, to ignite the fires of another man's heart:
when He uses us in this way, it will seem to one like the opening of a window--to another a
magnetism. One will see it as a light flashed on dark places, another receives it as the finding
of a track where before was no track. But however many times we may be used in this way, the
working remains a mystery to us.

What is our reward whilst still in this world for our patient obediences and renunciations?
This--that all becomes well with us the moment the process is brought to the stage where the
aim of our life ceases to be the enjoyment of worldly life and becomes fixed upon the Invisible
and upon God: and all this by and because of love, for it is love alone which can make us genuinely
glad to give up our own will and which can keep us from sinning.

We commence by qualifying through our human love, meagre and fluctuating as it is, for God's
gift of holy love--of divine reciprocity, and with the presentation of this divine gift immediately
we find ourselves in possession of a new set of desires, which for the first time in our experience
of living prove themselves completely satisfying in fruition. God does not leave us in an arid
waste, because He would have us to be holy, and nowhere are there such ardent desires as in
heaven; but He transposes and transfigures the carnal desires into the spiritual by means of
this gift of divine reciprocity which is at once access to and union with Himself. Now, and
only now do we find the sting pulled out of every adverse happening and every woe of life,
and out of death also.

And the whole process is to be gone through just where and how and as we find ourselves--in
our own home or in the home of another, married or single, rich or poor,--with these three
watchwords, Obedience, Patience and Simplicity.

But it is not sufficient to have once achieved this union with God: to rest in happiness the
soul must continually achieve it. It follows then that our need is not an isolated event but
a life, a life lived with God, and in experience we find that this alone can satisfy us. A
life in which we receive hourly the breath of His tenderness and pity, His infinite solace
to a pardoned soul.

Of the Interchange of Thought without Sound

Many persons know what it is to have the experience with another person of a simultaneous exactitude
of thought--speaking aloud the same words in the same instant. Others experience in themselves
the power to exchange thought and to know the mind of another without the medium of sound,
though not without the medium of word-forms, this last being a capacity possessed only by the
soul in communion with the Divine. We name these experiences thought-waves, mind-reading, mental
telepathy, and understand very little about them; but beyond this mind-telepathy there is a
telepathy of the soul about which we understand nothing whatever. This is the divine telepathy,
with words or without word-forms, by which Christ instructs His followers. The telepathy of
the mind is the indicator to the existence of a telepathy of the soul; for the mind indicates
to us that which should be sought and known by the soul, and without we come to divine things
first in a creaturely way (being creatures) we shall never come to them at all. The mind desires
and indicates, the soul achieves.

This telepathy with Christ is the means by which the soul learns in a direct manner the will
and the teaching and the mind of Christ, and it is by this means she gains such wisdom as it
is God's will she shall have. The soul seeks this telepathy during the second stage, vaguely,
not knowing or understanding the mode of it, receiving it rarely and with great difficulty.

In the third stage she obtains it in abundance, at times briefly, at others at great length.

* * *

That God has his dwelling-place at an incalculably great distance from ourselves is a true
knowledge of the soul: but a further knowledge reveals to us that this calamity is mitigated,
and for short periods even annulled, by provision of His within the soul to annihilate this
distance, and be the means of bringing the soul into such immediate contact with Himself as
she is able to endure. But the Joy-Energy of God being insupportable to the very nature of
flesh, in His tender love and pity He provides us, through the Person of His Son, with degrees
of union of such sweet gentleness that we may continually enjoy them through every hour of
life; and through His Son He comes out to meet the prodigal "while yet afar off."

This is strongly observable, that as the process of Christ proceeds and grows in us, though
our joys in God are individual, yet they become also clothed in a garment of the universal,
so that the soul, when she enters the fires of worship and of blessing and of conversing with
God--without any forethought, but by a cause or need now become a part of herself,--enters
these states and gives to Him no longer as I, but as We--which is to say, as All Souls.

* * *

Many of us look to death to work a miracle for us, thinking the mere cessation of physical
living will give entry to paradise or even heaven, so long as we are baptised and call ourselves
Christians. This is a great delusion. In character, personality, cleanliness, goodwill we are,
after death, exactly as far advanced as we were before death, and no further. What then is
needed, since death will not help us? The Seed of Divine love and life planted and consciously
growing in us whilst we are still in this world. And what is this Seed?--the Redeemer.

* * *

What is paradise, what is heaven? The progressive gradations of conditions of a perfect reciprocity
of love, and the greater the perfection of this reciprocity the greater the altitudes attained
of heaven. Thus we see in Scripture that the angels who stand nearest to God or highest in
heaven are the cherubim--that is to say, they are those who have attained a greater reciprocity
than all other angels. Now this Divine love is incomprehensible to us until we are initiated
into its mystery as a gift, and cannot be understood nor guessed at by comparisons with any
human loves however great, noble, or pure; but this burning fiery essence of joy, this radiant
glory of delight, this holy and ineffable fulfilment of the uttermost needs, longings, and
requirements of the soul must be personally experienced by us to be comprehended.

What madness in us is it that can count as an added cross or burden any means by which we reach
such perfection of bliss for ever? The Cross is for us the misery of our own blinding sins
and selfishnesses. The burden is the weight of our own distance from God. "Take up thy cross
(which is our daily life of ignorance and sin), take up thy cross, and follow Me," says the
voice of the Saviour; and as we do it and follow Him the distance between God and ourselves
diminishes, and finally the burden and the cross disappear, and behold God! awaiting us with
His consolations.

It is the stopping half-way that causes would-be followers of Christ such distress. It is necessary
that we follow Him all the way and not merely a part of it--that He may complete His process
in us. When we are living altogether in a creaturely, natural, or unregenerated way, absorbed
in the ambitions and interests of a worldly life, we are perhaps content. When we live regenerated
and in the spirit, we are in great joy; but when we try to live between the two and would serve
God and worldly interests at the same time we are in gloomy wretchedness, vacillation, depression.

The Master said, "The kingdom of heaven is within you," which signified that within us was
the potentiality to have entrance to, and to know, the mystery of the Divine Secret, and to
participate whilst still living here, in the early degrees or manifestations of Divine Love--that
Power which glorifies the angels, and is Heaven.

Of the three Stages of God-Consciousness

(Which more properly expressed is the gift of immediate access of the soul of God)

There are three principal stages on the way of progress--three separate degrees of God-Consciousness.
The first is the Consciousness of the Presence of Jesus, the Perfect Man. We take Him into
the heart, accept and know Him, love and obey Him. In the second stage we receive Jesus as
the Christ and recognise Him as the Messiah (of which the mind was not sure in the first stage).
We rejoice in Him, giving Him a more perfect obedience. In the third the soul is given the
Consciousness of the Father, and, being filled with a very great love and joy, worships Him
as the Known God. Now life immediately becomes totally changed, fear and sin are swept away,
and love rules the Universe.

It is now that God makes us know His glamour; that He casts over the soul His golden net of
spiritual delights, and by them seems to challenge her, saying to the soul, "Now that I reveal
Myself to thee, canst thou ever return to the joys of the world, canst thou find its pleasures
sweet, canst thou be satisfied with any human love; canst thou by any means resist Me now that
I show Myself?" And the soul answers Him, "Nay Lord, in truth I cannot."

