For the charge of the voyage of two or three thousand pounds we have not received the value
of one hundred pounds, and for the quartered boat to be borne by the souldiers over the falls.
Newport had 120 of the best men he could chuse. If he had burnt her to ashes, one might have
carried her in a bag, but as she is, five hundred cannot to a navigable place above the falls.
And for him at that time to find in the South Sea a mine of gold; or any of them sent by Sir
Walter Raleigh; at our consultation I told them was as likely as the rest. But during this
great discovery of thirtie miles (which might as well have been done by one man, and much more,
for the value of a pound of copper at a seasonable tyme), they had the pinnace and all the
boats with them but one that remained with me to serve the fort. In their absence I followed
the new begun works of Pitch and Tarre, Glasse, Sope-ashes, Clapboord, whereof some small quantities
we have sent you. But if you rightly consider what an infinite toyle it is in Russia and Swethland,
where the woods are proper for naught els, and though there be the helpe both of man and beast
in those ancient commonwealths, which many an hundred years have used it, yet thousands of
those poor people can scarce get necessaries to live, but from hand to mouth, and though your
factors there can buy as much in a week as will fraught you a ship, or as much as you please,
you must not expect from us any such matter, which are but as many of ignorant, miserable soules,
that are scarce able to get wherewith to live, and defend ourselves against the inconstant
Salvages: finding but here and there a tree fit for the purpose, and want all things else the
Russians have. For the Coronation of Powhattan, by whose advice you sent him such presents,
I know not; but this give me leave to tell you, I feare they will be the confusion of us all
ere we heare from you again. At your ships arrivall, the Salvages harvest was newly gathered,
and we going to buy it, our owne not being halve sufficient for so great a number. As for the
two ships loading of corne Newport promised to provide us from Powhattan, he brought us but
fourteen bushels; and from the Monacans nothing, but the most of the men sicke and neare famished.
From your ship we had not provision in victuals worth twenty pound, and we are more than two
hundred to live upon this, the one halfe sicke, the other little better. For the saylers (I
confesse), they daily make good cheare, but our dyet is a little meale and water, and not sufficient
of that. Though there be fish in the Sea, fowles in the ayre, and beasts in the woods, their
bounds are so large, they so wilde, and we so weake and ignorant, we cannot much trouble them.
Captaine Newport we much suspect to be the Author of these inventions. Now that you should
know, I have made you as great a discovery as he, for less charge than he spendeth you every
meale; I had sent you this mappe of the Countries and Nations that inhabit them, as you may
see at large. Also two barrels of stones, and such as I take to be good. Iron ore at the least;
so divided, as by their notes you may see in what places I found them. The souldiers say many
of your officers maintaine their families out of that you sent us, and that Newport hath an
hundred pounds a year for carrying newes. For every master you have yet sent can find the way
as well as he, so that an hundred pounds might be spared, which is more than we have all, that
helps to pay him wages. Cap. Ratliffe is now called Sicklemore, a poore counterfeited Imposture.
I have sent you him home least the Company should cut his throat. What he is, now every one
can tell you: if he and Archer returne againe, they are sufficient to keep us always in factions.
Thus if you please to consider this account, and the unnecessary wages to Captaine Newport,
or his ships so long lingering and staying here (for notwithstanding his boasting to leave
us victuals for 12 months, though we had 89 by this discovery lame and sicke, and but a pinte
of corne a day for a man, we were constrained to give him three hogsheads of that to victuall
him homeward), or yet to send into Germany or Poleland for glassemen and the rest, till we
be able to sustaine ourselves, and releeve them when they come. And I humbly intreat you hereafter,
let us have what we should receive, and not stand to the Saylers courtesie to leave us what
they please, els you may charge us what you will, but we not you with anything. These are the
causes that have kept us in Virginia from laying such a foundation that ere this might have
given much better content and satisfaction, but as yet you must not look for any profitable
returning. So I humbly rest.

After the departure of Newport, Smith, with his accustomed resolution, set to work to gather
supplies for the winter. Corn had to be extorted from the Indians by force. In one expedition
to Nansemond, when the Indians refused to trade, Smith fired upon them, and then landed and
burned one of their houses; whereupon they submitted and loaded his three boats with corn.
The ground was covered with ice and snow, and the nights were bitterly cold. The device for
sleeping warm in the open air was to sweep the snow away from the ground and build a fire;
the fire was then raked off from the heated earth and a mat spread, upon which the whites lay
warm, sheltered by a mat hung up on the windward side, until the ground got cold, when they
builded a fire on another place. Many a cold winter night did the explorers endure this hardship,
yet grew fat and lusty under it.

About this time was solemnized the marriage of John Laydon and Anne Burrows, the first in Virginia.
Anne was the maid of Mistress Forrest, who had just come out to grow up with the country, and
John was a laborer who came with the first colony in 1607. This was actually the "First Family
of Virginia," about which so much has been eloquently said.

Provisions were still wanting. Mr. Scrivener and Mr. Percy returned from an expedition with
nothing. Smith proposed to surprise Powhatan, and seize his store of corn, but he says he was
hindered in this project by Captain Winne and Mr. Scrivener (who had heretofore been considered
one of Smith's friends), whom he now suspected of plotting his ruin in England.

Powhatan on his part sent word to Smith to visit him, to send him men to build a house, give
him a grindstone, fifty swords, some big guns, a cock and a hen, much copper and beads, in
return for which he would load his ship with corn. Without any confidence in the crafty savage,
Smith humored him by sending several workmen, including four Dutchmen, to build him a house.
Meantime with two barges and the pinnace and forty-six men, including Lieutenant Percy, Captain
Wirt, and Captain William Phittiplace, on the 29th of December he set out on a journey to the
Pamaunky, or York, River.

The first night was spent at "Warraskogack," the king of which warned Smith that while Powhatan
would receive him kindly he was only seeking an opportunity to cut their throats and seize
their arms. Christmas was kept with extreme winds, rain, frost and snow among the savages at
Kecoughton, where before roaring fires they made merry with plenty of oysters, fish, flesh,
wild fowls and good bread. The President and two others went gunning for birds, and brought
down one hundred and forty-eight fowls with three shots.

Ascending the river, on the 12th of January they reached Werowocomoco. The river was frozen
half a mile from the shore, and when the barge could not come to land by reason of the ice
and muddy shallows, they effected a landing by wading. Powhatan at their request sent them
venison, turkeys, and bread; the next day he feasted them, and then inquired when they were
going, ignoring his invitation to them to come. Hereupon followed a long game of fence between
Powhatan and Captain Smith, each trying to overreach the other, and each indulging profusely
in lies and pledges. Each professed the utmost love for the other.

Smith upbraided him with neglect of his promise to supply them with corn, and told him, in
reply to his demand for weapons, that he had no arms to spare. Powhatan asked him, if he came
on a peaceful errand, to lay aside his weapons, for he had heard that the English came not
so much for trade as to invade his people and possess his country, and the people did not dare
to bring in their corn while the English were around.

Powhatan seemed indifferent about the building. The Dutchmen who had come to build Powhatan
a house liked the Indian plenty better than the risk of starvation with the colony, revealed
to Powhatan the poverty of the whites, and plotted to betray them, of which plot Smith was
not certain till six months later. Powhatan discoursed eloquently on the advantage of peace
over war: "I have seen the death of all my people thrice," he said, "and not any one living
of those three generations but myself; I know the difference of peace and war better than any
in my country. But I am now old and ere long must die." He wanted to leave his brothers and
sisters in peace. He heard that Smith came to destroy his country. He asked him what good it
would do to destroy them that provided his food, to drive them into the woods where they must
feed on roots and acorns; "and be so hunted by you that I can neither rest, eat nor sleep,
but my tired men must watch, and if a twig but break every one crieth, there cometh Captain
Smith!" They might live in peace, and trade, if Smith would only lay aside his arms. Smith,
in return, boasted of his power to get provisions, and said that he had only been restrained
from violence by his love for Powhatan; that the Indians came armed to Jamestown, and it was
the habit of the whites to wear their arms. Powhatan then contrasted the liberality of Newport,
and told Smith that while he had used him more kindly than any other chief, he had received
from him (Smith) the least kindness of any.

Believing that the palaver was only to get an opportunity to cut his throat, Smith got the
savages to break the ice in order to bring up the barge and load it with corn, and gave orders
for his soldiers to land and surprise Powhatan; meantime, to allay his suspicions, telling
him the lie that next day he would lay aside his arms and trust Powhatan's promises. But Powhatan
was not to be caught with such chaff. Leaving two or three women to talk with the Captain he
secretly fled away with his women, children, and luggage. When Smith perceived this treachery
he fired into the "naked devils" who were in sight. The next day Powhatan sent to excuse his
flight, and presented him a bracelet and chain of pearl and vowed eternal friendship.

With matchlocks lighted, Smith forced the Indians to load the boats; but as they were aground,
and could not be got off till high water, he was compelled to spend the night on shore. Powhatan
and the treacherous Dutchmen are represented as plotting to kill Smith that night. Provisions
were to be brought him with professions of friendship, and Smith was to be attacked while at
supper. The Indians, with all the merry sports they could devise, spent the time till night,
and then returned to Powhatan.

The plot was frustrated in the providence of God by a strange means. "For Pocahuntas his dearest
jewele and daughter in that dark night came through the irksome woods, and told our Captaine
good cheer should be sent us by and by; but Powhatan and all the power he could make would
after come and kill us all, if they that brought it could not kill us with our own weapons
when we were at supper. Therefore if we would live she wished us presently to be gone. Such
things as she delighted in he would have given her; but with the tears rolling down her cheeks
she said she durst not to be seen to have any; for if Powhatan should know it, she were but
dead, and so she ran away by herself as she came."

[This instance of female devotion is exactly paralleled in D'Albertis's "New Guinea." Abia,
a pretty Biota girl of seventeen, made her way to his solitary habitation at the peril of her
life, to inform him that the men of Rapa would shortly bring him insects and other presents,
in order to get near him without suspicion, and then kill him. He tried to reward the brave
girl by hanging a gold chain about her neck, but she refused it, saying it would betray her.
He could only reward her with a fervent kiss, upon which she fled. Smith omits that part of
the incident.]

In less than an hour ten burly fellows arrived with great platters of victuals, and begged
Smith to put out the matches (the smoke of which made them sick) and sit down and eat. Smith,
on his guard, compelled them to taste each dish, and then sent them back to Powhatan. All night
the whites watched, but though the savages lurked about, no attack was made. Leaving the four
Dutchmen to build Powhatan's house, and an Englishman to shoot game for him, Smith next evening
departed for Pamaunky.

No sooner had he gone than two of the Dutchmen made their way overland to Jamestown, and, pretending
Smith had sent them, procured arms, tools, and clothing. They induced also half a dozen sailors,
"expert thieves," to accompany them to live with Powhatan; and altogether they stole, besides
powder and shot, fifty swords, eight pieces, eight pistols, and three hundred hatchets. Edward
Boynton and Richard Savage, who had been left with Powhatan, seeing the treachery, endeavored
to escape, but were apprehended by the Indians.

At Pamaunky there was the same sort of palaver with Opechancanough, the king, to whom Smith
the year before had expounded the mysteries of history, geography, and astronomy. After much
fencing in talk, Smith, with fifteen companions, went up to the King's house, where presently
he found himself betrayed and surrounded by seven hundred armed savages, seeking his life.
His company being dismayed, Smith restored their courage by a speech, and then, boldly charging
the King with intent to murder him, he challenged him to a single combat on an island in the
river, each to use his own arms, but Smith to be as naked as the King. The King still professed
friendship, and laid a great present at the door, about which the Indians lay in ambush to
kill Smith. But this hero, according to his own account, took prompt measures. He marched out
to the King where he stood guarded by fifty of his chiefs, seized him by his long hair in the
midst of his men, and pointing a pistol at his breast led, him trembling and near dead with
fear amongst all his people. The King gave up his arms, and the savages, astonished that any
man dare treat their king thus, threw down their bows. Smith, still holding the King by the
hair, made them a bold address, offering peace or war. They chose peace.

In the picture of this remarkable scene in the "General Historie," the savage is represented
as gigantic in stature, big enough to crush the little Smith in an instant if he had but chosen.
Having given the savages the choice to load his ship with corn or to load it himself with their
dead carcasses, the Indians so thronged in with their commodities that Smith was tired of receiving
them, and leaving his comrades to trade, he lay down to rest. When he was asleep the Indians,
armed some with clubs, and some with old English swords, entered into the house. Smith awoke
in time, seized his arms, and others coming to his rescue, they cleared the house.

While enduring these perils, sad news was brought from Jamestown. Mr. Scrivener, who had letters
from England (writes Smith) urging him to make himself Caesar or nothing, declined in his affection
for Smith, and began to exercise extra authority. Against the advice of the others, he needs
must make a journey to the Isle of Hogs, taking with him in the boat Captain Waldo, Anthony
Gosnoll (or Gosnold, believed to be a relative of Captain Bartholomew Gosnold), and eight others.
The boat was overwhelmed in a storm, and sunk, no one knows how or where. The savages were
the first to discover the bodies of the lost. News of this disaster was brought to Captain
Smith (who did not disturb the rest by making it known) by Richard Wiffin, who encountered
great dangers on the way. Lodging overnight at Powhatan's, he saw great preparations for war,
and found himself in peril. Pocahontas hid him for a time, and by her means, and extraordinary
bribes, in three days' travel he reached Smith.

Powhatan, according to Smith, threatened death to his followers if they did not kill Smith.
At one time swarms of natives, unarmed, came bringing great supplies of provisions; this was
to put Smith off his guard, surround him with hundreds of savages, and slay him by an ambush.
But he also laid in ambush and got the better of the crafty foe with a superior craft. They
sent him poisoned food, which made his company sick, but was fatal to no one. Smith apologizes
for temporizing with the Indians at this time, by explaining that his purpose was to surprise
Powhatan and his store of provisions. But when they stealthily stole up to the seat of that
crafty chief, they found that those "damned Dutchmen" had caused Powhatan to abandon his new
house at Werowocomoco, and to carry away all his corn and provisions.

The reward of this wearisome winter campaign was two hundred weight of deer-suet and four hundred
and seventy-nine bushels of corn for the general store. They had not to show such murdering
and destroying as the Spaniards in their "relations," nor heaps and mines of gold and silver;
the land of Virginia was barbarous and ill-planted, and without precious jewels, but no Spanish
relation could show, with such scant means, so much country explored, so many natives reduced
to obedience, with so little bloodshed.

XII. TRIALS OF THE SETTLEMENT

Without entering at all into the consideration of the character of the early settlers of Virginia
and of Massachusetts, one contrast forces itself upon the mind as we read the narratives of
the different plantations. In Massachusetts there was from the beginning a steady purpose to
make a permanent settlement and colony, and nearly all those who came over worked, with more
or less friction, with this end before them. The attempt in Virginia partook more of the character
of a temporary adventure. In Massachusetts from the beginning a commonwealth was in view. In
Virginia, although the London promoters desired a colony to be fixed that would be profitable
to themselves, and many of the adventurers, Captain Smith among them, desired a permanent planting,
a great majority of those who went thither had only in mind the advantages of trade, the excitement
of a free and licentious life, and the adventure of something new and startling. It was long
before the movers in it gave up the notion of discovering precious metals or a short way to
the South Sea. The troubles the primitive colony endured resulted quite as much from its own
instability of purpose, recklessness, and insubordination as from the hostility of the Indians.
The majority spent their time in idleness, quarreling, and plotting mutiny.

The ships departed for England in December, 1608. When Smith returned from his expedition for
food in the winter of 1609, he found that all the provision except what he had gathered was
so rotted from the rain, and eaten by rats and worms, that the hogs would scarcely eat it.
Yet this had been the diet of the soldiers, who had consumed the victuals and accomplished
nothing except to let the savages have the most of the tools and a good part of the arms.

Taking stock of what he brought in, Smith found food enough to last till the next harvest,
and at once organized the company into bands of ten or fifteen, and compelled them to go to
work. Six hours a day were devoted to labor, and the remainder to rest and merry exercises.
Even with this liberal allowance of pastime a great part of the colony still sulked. Smith
made them a short address, exhibiting his power in the letters-patent, and assuring them that
he would enforce discipline and punish the idle and froward; telling them that those that did
not work should not eat, and that the labor of forty or fifty industrious men should not be
consumed to maintain a hundred and fifty idle loiterers. He made a public table of good and
bad conduct; but even with this inducement the worst had to be driven to work by punishment
or the fear of it.

The Dutchmen with Powhatan continued to make trouble, and confederates in the camp supplied
them with powder and shot, swords and tools. Powhatan kept the whites who were with him to
instruct the Indians in the art of war. They expected other whites to join them, and those
not coming, they sent Francis, their companion, disguised as an Indian, to find out the cause.
He came to the Glass house in the woods a mile from Jamestown, which was the rendezvous for
all their villainy. Here they laid an ambush of forty men for Smith, who hearing of the Dutchman,
went thither to apprehend him. The rascal had gone, and Smith, sending twenty soldiers to follow
and capture him, started alone from the Glass house to return to the fort. And now occurred
another of those personal adventures which made Smith famous by his own narration.

On his way he encountered the King of Paspahegh, "a most strong, stout savage," who, seeing
that Smith had only his falchion, attempted to shoot him. Smith grappled him; the savage prevented
his drawing his blade, and bore him into the river to drown him. Long they struggled in the
water, when the President got the savage by the throat and nearly strangled him, and drawing
his weapon, was about to cut off his head, when the King begged his life so pitifully, that
Smith led him prisoner to the fort and put him in chains.

In the pictures of this achievement, the savage is represented as about twice the size and
stature of Smith; another illustration that this heroic soul was never contented to take one
of his size.

The Dutchman was captured, who, notwithstanding his excuses that he had escaped from Powhatan
and did not intend to return, but was only walking in the woods to gather walnuts, on the testimony
of Paspahegh of his treachery, was also "laid by the heels." Smith now proposed to Paspahegh
to spare his life if he would induce Powhatan to send back the renegade Dutchmen. The messengers
for this purpose reported that the Dutchmen, though not detained by Powhatan, would not come,
and the Indians said they could not bring them on their backs fifty miles through the woods.
Daily the King's wives, children, and people came to visit him, and brought presents to procure
peace and his release. While this was going on, the King, though fettered, escaped. A pursuit
only resulted in a vain fight with the Indians. Smith then made prisoners of two Indians who
seemed to be hanging around the camp, Kemps and Tussore, "the two most exact villains in all
the country," who would betray their own king and kindred for a piece of copper, and sent them
with a force of soldiers, under Percy, against Paspahegh. The expedition burned his house,
but did not capture the fugitive. Smith then went against them himself, killed six or seven,
burned their houses, and took their boats and fishing wires. Thereupon the savages sued for
peace, and an amnesty was established that lasted as long as Smith remained in the country.

Another incident occurred about this time which greatly raised Smith's credit in all that country.
The Chicahomanians, who always were friendly traders, were great thieves. One of them stole
a Pistol, and two proper young fellows, brothers, known to be his confederates, were apprehended.
One of them was put in the dungeon and the other sent to recover the pistol within twelve hours,
in default of which his brother would be hanged. The President, pitying the wretched savage
in the dungeon, sent him some victuals and charcoal for a fire. "Ere midnight his brother returned
with the pistol, but the poor savage in the dungeon was so smothered with the smoke he had
made, and so piteously burnt, that we found him dead. The other most lamentably bewailed his
death, and broke forth in such bitter agonies, that the President, to quiet him, told him that
if hereafter they would not steal, he would make him alive again; but he (Smith) little thought
he could be recovered." Nevertheless, by a liberal use of aqua vitae and vinegar the Indian
was brought again to life, but "so drunk and affrighted that he seemed lunatic, the which as
much tormented and grieved the other as before to see him dead." Upon further promise of good
behavior Smith promised to bring the Indian out of this malady also, and so laid him by a fire
to sleep. In the morning the savage had recovered his perfect senses, his wounds were dressed,
and the brothers with presents of copper were sent away well contented. This was spread among
the savages for a miracle, that Smith could make a man alive that was dead. He narrates a second
incident which served to give the Indians a wholesome fear of the whites: "Another ingenious
savage of Powhatan having gotten a great bag of powder and the back of an armour at Werowocomoco,
amongst a many of his companions, to show his extraordinary skill, he did dry it on the back
as he had seen the soldiers at Jamestown. But he dried it so long, they peeping over it to
see his skill, it took fire, and blew him to death, and one or two more, and the rest so scorched
they had little pleasure any more to meddle with gunpowder."

"These and many other such pretty incidents," says Smith, "so amazed and affrighted Powhatan
and his people that from all parts they desired peace;" stolen articles were returned, thieves
sent to Jamestown for punishment, and the whole country became as free for the whites as for
the Indians.

And now ensued, in the spring of 1609, a prosperous period of three months, the longest season
of quiet the colony had enjoyed, but only a respite from greater disasters. The friendship
of the Indians and the temporary subordination of the settlers we must attribute to Smith's
vigor, shrewdness, and spirit of industry. It was much easier to manage the Indian's than the
idle and vicious men that composed the majority of the settlement.

In these three months they manufactured three or four lasts (fourteen barrels in a last) of
tar, pitch, and soap-ashes, produced some specimens of glass, dug a well of excellent sweet
water in the fort, which they had wanted for two years, built twenty houses, repaired the church,
planted thirty or forty acres of ground, and erected a block-house on the neck of the island,
where a garrison was stationed to trade with the savages and permit neither whites nor Indians
to pass except on the President's order. Even the domestic animals partook the industrious
spirit: "of three sowes in eighteen months increased 60 and od Pigs; and neare 500 chickings
brought up themselves without having any meat given them." The hogs were transferred to Hog
Isle, where another block house was built and garrisoned, and the garrison were permitted to
take "exercise" in cutting down trees and making clapboards and wainscot. They were building
a fort on high ground, intended for an easily defended retreat, when a woful discovery put
an end to their thriving plans.

Upon examination of the corn stored in casks, it was found half-rotten, and the rest consumed
by rats, which had bred in thousands from the few which came over in the ships. The colony
was now at its wits end, for there was nothing to eat except the wild products of the country.
In this prospect of famine, the two Indians, Kemps and Tussore, who had been kept fettered
while showing the whites how to plant the fields, were turned loose; but they were unwilling
to depart from such congenial company. The savages in the neighborhood showed their love by
bringing to camp, for sixteen days, each day at least a hundred squirrels, turkeys, deer, and
other wild beasts. But without corn, the work of fortifying and building had to be abandoned,
and the settlers dispersed to provide victuals.

Up to this time the whole colony was fed by the labors of thirty or forty men: there was more
sturgeon than could be devoured by dog and man; it was dried, pounded, and mixed with caviare,
sorrel, and other herbs, to make bread; bread was also made of the "Tockwhogh" root, and with
the fish and these wild fruits they lived very well. But there were one hundred and fifty of
the colony who would rather starve or eat each other than help gather food. These "distracted,
gluttonous loiterers" would have sold anything they had--tools, arms, and their houses--for
anything the savages would bring them to eat. Hearing that there was a basket of corn at Powhatan's,
fifty miles away, they would have exchanged all their property for it. To satisfy their factious
humors, Smith succeeded in getting half of it: "they would have sold their souls," he says,
for the other half, though not sufficient to last them a week.

The clamors became so loud that Smith punished the ringleader, one Dyer, a crafty fellow, and
his ancient maligner, and then made one of his conciliatory addresses. Having shown them how
impossible it was to get corn, and reminded them of his own exertions, and that he had always
shared with them anything he had, he told them that he should stand their nonsense no longer;
he should force the idle to work, and punish them if they railed; if any attempted to escape
to Newfoundland in the pinnace they would arrive at the gallows; the sick should not starve;
every man able must work, and every man who did not gather as much in a day as he did should
be put out of the fort as a drone.

Such was the effect of this speech that of the two hundred only seven died in this pinching
time, except those who were drowned; no man died of want. Captain Winne and Master Leigh had
died before this famine occurred. Many of the men were billeted among the savages, who used
them well, and stood in such awe of the power at the fort that they dared not wrong the whites
out of a pin. The Indians caught Smith's humor, and some of the men who ran away to seek Kemps
and Tussore were mocked and ridiculed, and had applied to them--Smith's law of "who cannot
work must not eat;" they were almost starved and beaten nearly to death. After amusing himself
with them, Kemps returned the fugitives, whom Smith punished until they were content to labor
at home, rather than adventure to live idly among the savages, "of whom," says our shrewd chronicler,
"there was more hope to make better christians and good subjects than the one half of them
that counterfeited themselves both." The Indians were in such subjection that any who were
punished at the fort would beg the President not to tell their chief, for they would be again
punished at home and sent back for another round.

We hear now of the last efforts to find traces of the lost colony of Sir Walter Raleigh. Master
Sicklemore returned from the Chawwonoke (Chowan River) with no tidings of them; and Master
Powell, and Anas Todkill who had been conducted to the Mangoags, in the regions south of the
James, could learn nothing but that they were all dead. The king of this country was a very
proper, devout, and friendly man; he acknowledged that our God exceeded his as much as our
guns did his bows and arrows, and asked the President to pray his God for him, for all the
gods of the Mangoags were angry.

The Dutchmen and one Bentley, another fugitive, who were with Powhatan, continued to plot against
the colony, and the President employed a Swiss, named William Volday, to go and regain them
with promises of pardon. Volday turned out to be a hypocrite, and a greater rascal than the
others. Many of the discontented in the fort were brought into the scheme, which was, with
Powhatan's aid, to surprise and destroy Jamestown. News of this getting about in the fort,
there was a demand that the President should cut off these Dutchmen. Percy and Cuderington,
two gentlemen, volunteered to do it; but Smith sent instead Master Wiffin and Jeffrey Abbot,
to go and stab them or shoot them. But the Dutchmen were too shrewd to be caught, and Powhatan
sent a conciliatory message that he did not detain the Dutchmen, nor hinder the slaying of them.

While this plot was simmering, and Smith was surrounded by treachery inside the fort and outside,
and the savages were being taught that King James would kill Smith because he had used the
Indians so unkindly, Captain Argall and Master Thomas Sedan arrived out in a well-furnished
vessel, sent by Master Cornelius to trade and fish for sturgeon. The wine and other good provision
of the ship were so opportune to the necessities of the colony that the President seized them.
Argall lost his voyage; his ship was revictualed and sent back to England, but one may be sure
that this event was so represented as to increase the fostered dissatisfaction with Smith in
London. For one reason or another, most of the persons who returned had probably carried a
bad report of him. Argall brought to Jamestown from London a report of great complaints of
him for his dealings with the savages and not returning ships freighted with the products of
the country. Misrepresented in London, and unsupported and conspired against in Virginia, Smith
felt his fall near at hand. On the face of it he was the victim of envy and the rascality of
incompetent and bad men; but whatever his capacity for dealing with savages, it must be confessed
that he lacked something which conciliates success with one's own people. A new commission
was about to be issued, and a great supply was in preparation under Lord De La Ware.

XIII. SMITH'S LAST DAYS IN VIRGINIA

The London company were profoundly dissatisfied with the results of the Virginia colony. The
South Sea was not discovered, no gold had turned up, there were no valuable products from the
new land, and the promoters received no profits on their ventures. With their expectations,
it is not to be wondered at that they were still further annoyed by the quarreling amongst
the colonists themselves, and wished to begin over again.

A new charter, dated May 23, 1609, with enlarged powers, was got from King James. Hundreds
of corporators were named, and even thousands were included in the various London trades and
guilds that were joined in the enterprise. Among the names we find that of Captain John Smith.
But he was out of the Council, nor was he given then or ever afterward any place or employment
in Virginia, or in the management of its affairs. The grant included all the American coast
two hundred miles north and two hundred miles south of Point Comfort, and all the territory
from the coast up into the land throughout from sea to sea, west and northwest. A leading object
of the project still being (as we have seen it was with Smith's precious crew at Jamestown)
the conversion and reduction of the natives to the true religion, no one was permitted in the
colony who had not taken the oath of supremacy.

Under this charter the Council gave a commission to Sir Thomas West, Lord Delaware, Captain-General
of Virginia; Sir Thomas Gates, Lieutenant-General; Sir George Somers, Admiral; Captain Newport,
Vice-Admiral; Sir Thomas Dale, High Marshal; Sir Frederick Wainman, General of the Horse, and
many other officers for life.

With so many wealthy corporators money flowed into the treasury, and a great expedition was
readily fitted out. Each of these commanders had a commission, and the one who arrived first
was to call in the old commission; as they could not agree, they all sailed in one ship, the
Sea Venture.

This brave expedition was involved in a contest with a hurricane; one vessel was sunk, and
the Sea Venture, with the three commanders, one hundred and fifty men, the new commissioners,
bills of lading, all sorts of instructions, and much provision, was wrecked on the Bermudas.
With this company was William Strachey, of whom we shall hear more hereafter. Seven vessels
reached Jamestown, and brought, among other annoyances, Smith's old enemy, Captain Ratcliffe,
alias Sicklemore, in command of a ship. Among the company were also Captains Martin, Archer,
Wood, Webbe, Moore, King, Davis, and several gentlemen of good means, and a crowd of the riff-raff
of London. Some of these Captains whom Smith had sent home, now returned with new pretensions,
and had on the voyage prejudiced the company against him. When the fleet was first espied,
the President thought it was Spaniards, and prepared to defend himself, the Indians promptly
coming to his assistance.

This hurricane tossed about another expedition still more famous, that of Henry Hudson, who
had sailed from England on his third voyage toward Nova Zembla March 25th, and in July and
August was beating down the Atlantic coast. On the 18th of August he entered the Capes of Virginia,
and sailed a little way up the Bay. He knew he was at the mouth of the James River, "where
our Englishmen are," as he says. The next day a gale from the northeast made him fear being
driven aground in the shallows, and he put to sea. The storm continued for several days. On
the 21st "a sea broke over the fore-course and split it;" and that night something more ominous
occurred: "that night [the chronicle records] our cat ran crying from one side of the ship
to the other, looking overboard, which made us to wonder, but we saw nothing." On the 26th
they were again off the bank of Virginia, and in the very bay and in sight of the islands they
had seen on the 18th. It appeared to Hudson "a great bay with rivers," but too shallow to explore
without a small boat. After lingering till the 29th, without any suggestion of ascending the
James, he sailed northward and made the lucky stroke of river exploration which immortalized him.

It seems strange that he did not search for the English colony, but the adventurers of that
day were independent actors, and did not care to share with each other the glories of discovery.

The first of the scattered fleet of Gates and Somers came in on the 11th, and the rest straggled
along during the three or four days following. It was a narrow chance that Hudson missed them
all, and one may imagine that the fate of the Virginia colony and of the New York settlement
would have been different if the explorer of the Hudson had gone up the James.

No sooner had the newcomers landed than trouble began. They would have deposed Smith on report
of the new commission, but they could show no warrant. Smith professed himself willing to retire
to England, but, seeing the new commission did not arrive, held on to his authority, and began
to enforce it to save the whole colony from anarchy. Happie had we beene had they never arrived,
and we forever abandoned, as we were left to our fortunes; for on earth for their number was
never more confusion or misery than their factions occasioned." In this company came a boy,
named Henry Spelman, whose subsequent career possesses considerable interest.

The President proceeded with his usual vigor: he "laid by the heels" the chief mischief-makers
till he should get leisure to punish them; sent Mr. West with one hundred and twenty good men
to the Falls to make a settlement; and despatched Martin with near as many and their proportion
of provisions to Nansemond, on the river of that name emptying into the James, obliquely opposite
Point Comfort.

Lieutenant Percy was sick and had leave to depart for England when he chose. The President's
year being about expired, in accordance with the charter, he resigned, and Captain Martin was
elected President. But knowing his inability, he, after holding it three hours, resigned it
to Smith, and went down to Nansemond. The tribe used him kindly, but he was so frightened with
their noisy demonstration of mirth that he surprised and captured the poor naked King with
his houses, and began fortifying his position, showing so much fear that the savages were emboldened
to attack him, kill some of his men, release their King, and carry off a thousand bushels of
corn which had been purchased, Martin not offering to intercept them. The frightened Captain
sent to Smith for aid, who despatched to him thirty good shot. Martin, too chicken-hearted
to use them, came back with them to Jamestown, leaving his company to their fortunes. In this
adventure the President commends the courage of one George Forrest, who, with seventeen arrows
sticking into him and one shot through him, lived six or seven days.

Meantime Smith, going up to the Falls to look after Captain West, met that hero on his way
to Jamestown. He turned him back, and found that he had planted his colony on an unfavorable
flat, subject not only to the overflowing of the river, but to more intolerable inconveniences.
To place him more advantageously the President sent to Powhatan, offering to buy the place
called Powhatan, promising to defend him against the Monacans, to pay him in copper, and make
a general alliance of trade and friendship.

But "those furies," as Smith calls West and his associates, refused to move to Powhatan or
to accept these conditions. They contemned his authority, expecting all the time the new commission,
and, regarding all the Monacans' country as full of gold, determined that no one should interfere
with them in the possession of it. Smith, however, was not intimidated from landing and attempting
to quell their mutiny. In his "General Historie" it is written "I doe more than wonder to think
how onely with five men he either durst or would adventure as he did (knowing how greedy they
were of his bloud) to come amongst them." He landed and ordered the arrest of the chief disturbers,
but the crowd hustled him off. He seized one of their boats and escaped to the ship which contained
the provision. Fortunately the sailors were friendly and saved his life, and a considerable
number of the better sort, seeing the malice of Ratcliffe and Archer, took Smith's part.

Out of the occurrences at this new settlement grew many of the charges which were preferred
against Smith. According to the "General Historie" the company of Ratcliffe and Archer was
a disorderly rabble, constantly tormenting the Indians, stealing their corn, robbing their
gardens, beating them, and breaking into their houses and taking them prisoners. The Indians
daily complained to the President that these "protectors" he had given them were worse enemies
than the Monacans, and desired his pardon if they defended themselves, since he could not punish
their tormentors. They even proposed to fight for him against them. Smith says that after spending
nine days in trying to restrain them, and showing them how they deceived themselves with "great
guilded hopes of the South Sea Mines," he abandoned them to their folly and set sail for Jamestown.

No sooner was he under way than the savages attacked the fort, slew many of the whites who
were outside, rescued their friends who were prisoners, and thoroughly terrified the garrison.
Smith's ship happening to go aground half a league below, they sent off to him, and were glad
to submit on any terms to his mercy. He "put by the heels" six or seven of the chief offenders,
and transferred the colony to Powhatan, where were a fort capable of defense against all the
savages in Virginia, dry houses for lodging, and two hundred acres of ground ready to be planted.
This place, so strong and delightful in situation, they called Non-such. The savages appeared
and exchanged captives, and all became friends again.

At this moment, unfortunately, Captain West returned. All the victuals and munitions having
been put ashore, the old factious projects were revived. The soft-hearted West was made to
believe that the rebellion had been solely on his account. Smith, seeing them bent on their
own way, took the row-boat for Jamestown. The colony abandoned the pleasant Non-such and returned
to the open air at West's Fort. On his way down, Smith met with the accident that suddenly
terminated his career in Virginia.

While he was sleeping in his boat his powder-bag was accidentally fired; the explosion tore
the flesh from his body and thighs, nine or ten inches square, in the most frightful manner.
To quench the tormenting fire, frying him in his clothes, he leaped into the deep river, where,
ere they could recover him, he was nearly drowned. In this pitiable condition, without either
surgeon or surgery, he was to go nearly a hundred miles.

It is now time for the appearance upon the scene of the boy Henry Spelman, with his brief narration,
which touches this period of Smith's life. Henry Spelman was the third son of the distinguished
antiquarian, Sir Henry Spelman, of Coughan, Norfolk, who was married in 1581. It is reasonably
conjectured that he could not have been over twenty-one when in May, 1609, he joined the company
going to Virginia. Henry was evidently a scapegrace, whose friends were willing to be rid of
him. Such being his character, it is more than probable that he was shipped bound as an apprentice,
and of course with the conditions of apprenticeship in like expeditions of that period--to
be sold or bound out at the end of the voyage to pay for his passage. He remained for several
years in Virginia, living most of the time among the Indians, and a sort of indifferent go
between of the savages and the settlers. According to his own story it was on October 20, 1609,
that he was taken up the river to Powhatan by Captain Smith, and it was in April, 1613, that
he was rescued from his easy-setting captivity on the Potomac by Captain Argall. During his
sojourn in Virginia, or more probably shortly after his return to England, he wrote a brief
and bungling narration of his experiences in the colony, and a description of Indian life.
The MS. was not printed in his time, but mislaid or forgotten. By a strange series of chances
it turned up in our day, and was identified and prepared for the press in 1861. Before the
proof was read, the type was accidentally broken up and the MS. again mislaid. Lost sight of
for several years, it was recovered and a small number of copies of it were printed at London
in 1872, edited by Mr. James F. Hunnewell.

Spelman's narration would be very important if we could trust it. He appeared to have set down
what he saw, and his story has a certain simplicity that gains for it some credit. But he was
a reckless boy, unaccustomed to weigh evidence, and quite likely to write as facts the rumors
that he heard. He took very readily to the ways of Indian life. Some years after, Spelman returned
to Virginia with the title of Captain, and in 1617 we find this reference to him in the "General
Historie": "Here, as at many other times, we are beholden to Capt. Henry Spilman, an interpreter,
a gentleman that lived long time in this country, and sometimes a prisoner among the Salvages,
and done much good service though but badly rewarded." Smith would probably not have left this
on record had he been aware of the contents of the MS. that Spelman had left for after-times.

Spelman begins his Relation, from which I shall quote substantially, without following the
spelling or noting all the interlineations, with the reason for his emigration, which was,
"being in displeasure of my friends, and desirous to see other countries." After a brief account
of the voyage and the joyful arrival at Jamestown, the Relation continues:

"Having here unloaded our goods and bestowed some senight or fortnight in viewing the country,
I was carried by Capt. Smith, our President, to the Falls, to the little Powhatan, where, unknown
to me, he sold me to him for a town called Powhatan; and, leaving me with him, the little Powhatan,
he made known to Capt. West how he had bought a town for them to dwell in. Whereupon Capt.
West, growing angry because he had bestowed cost to begin a town in another place, Capt. Smith
desiring that Capt. West would come and settle himself there, but Capt. West, having bestowed
cost to begin a town in another place, misliked it, and unkindness thereupon arising between
them, Capt. Smith at that time replied little, but afterward combined with Powhatan to kill
Capt. West, which plot took but small effect, for in the meantime Capt. Smith was apprehended
and sent aboard for England."

That this roving boy was "thrown in" as a makeweight in the trade for the town is not impossible;
but that Smith combined with Powhatan to kill Captain West is doubtless West's perversion of
the offer of the Indians to fight on Smith's side against him.

According to Spelman's Relation, he stayed only seven or eight days with the little Powhatan,
when he got leave to go to Jamestown, being desirous to see the English and to fetch the small
articles that belonged to him. The Indian King agreed to wait for him at that place, but he
stayed too long, and on his return the little Powhatan had departed, and Spelman went back
to Jamestown. Shortly after, the great Powhatan sent Thomas Savage with a present of venison
to President Percy. Savage was loath to return alone, and Spelman was appointed to go with
him, which he did willingly, as victuals were scarce in camp. He carried some copper and a
hatchet, which he presented to Powhatan, and that Emperor treated him and his comrade very
kindly, seating them at his own mess-table. After some three weeks of this life, Powhatan sent
this guileless youth down to decoy the English into his hands, promising to freight a ship
with corn if they would visit him. Spelman took the message and brought back the English reply,
whereupon Powhatan laid the plot which resulted in the killing of Captain Ratcliffe and thirty-eight
men, only two of his company escaping to Jamestown. Spelman gives two versions of this incident.
During the massacre Spelman says that Powhatan sent him and Savage to a town some sixteen miles
away. Smith's "General Historie" says that on this occasion "Pocahuntas saved a boy named Henry
Spilman that lived many years afterward, by her means, among the Patawomekes." Spelman says
not a word about Pocahuntas. On the contrary, he describes the visit of the King of the Patawomekes
to Powhatan; says that the King took a fancy to him; that he and Dutch Samuel, fearing for
their lives, escaped from Powhatan's town; were pursued; that Samuel was killed, and that Spelman,
after dodging about in the forest, found his way to the Potomac, where he lived with this good
King Patomecke at a place called Pasptanzie for more than a year. Here he seems to have passed
his time agreeably, for although he had occasional fights with the squaws of Patomecke, the
King was always his friend, and so much was he attached to the boy that he would not give him
up to Captain Argall without some copper in exchange.

When Smith returned wounded to Jamestown, he was physically in no condition to face the situation.
With no medical attendance, his death was not improbable. He had no strength to enforce discipline
nor organize expeditions for supplies; besides, he was acting under a commission whose virtue
had expired, and the mutinous spirits rebelled against his authority. Ratcliffe, Archer, and
the others who were awaiting trial conspired against him, and Smith says he would have been
murdered in his bed if the murderer's heart had not failed him when he went to fire his pistol
at the defenseless sick man. However, Smith was forced to yield to circumstances. No sooner
had he given out that he would depart for England than they persuaded Mr. Percy to stay and
act as President, and all eyes were turned in expectation of favor upon the new commanders.
Smith being thus divested of authority, the most of the colony turned against him; many preferred
charges, and began to collect testimony. "The ships were detained three weeks to get up proofs
of his ill-conduct"--"time and charges," says Smith, dryly, "that might much better have been
spent."

It must have enraged the doughty Captain, lying thus helpless, to see his enemies triumph,
the most factious of the disturbers in the colony in charge of affairs, and become his accusers.
Even at this distance we can read the account with little patience, and should have none at
all if the account were not edited by Smith himself. His revenge was in his good fortune in
setting his own story afloat in the current of history. The first narrative of these events,
published by Smith in his Oxford tract of 1612, was considerably remodeled and changed in his
"General Historie" of 1624. As we have said before, he had a progressive memory, and his opponents
ought to be thankful that the pungent Captain did not live to work the story over a third time.

It is no doubt true, however, that but for the accident to our hero, he would have continued
to rule till the arrival of Gates and Somers with the new commissions; as he himself says,
"but had that unhappy blast not happened, he would quickly have qualified the heat of those
humors and factions, had the ships but once left them and us to our fortunes; and have made
that provision from among the salvages, as we neither feared Spaniard, Salvage, nor famine:
nor would have left Virginia nor our lawful authority, but at as dear a price as we had bought
it, and paid for it."

He doubtless would have fought it out against all comers; and who shall say that he does not
merit the glowing eulogy on himself which he inserts in his General History?

A handsomer thing never was said of another man than Smith could say of himself, but he believed
it, as also did many of his comrades, we must suppose. He suffered detraction enough, but he
suffered also abundant eulogy both in verse and prose. Among his eulogists, of course, is not
the factious Captain Ratcliffe. In the English Colonial State papers, edited by Mr. Noel Sainsbury,
is a note, dated Jamestown, October 4, 1609, from Captain "John Radclyffe comenly called,"
to the Earl of Salisbury, which contains this remark upon Smith's departure after the arrival
of the last supply: "They heard that all the Council were dead but Capt. [John] Smith, President,
who reigned sole Governor, and is now sent home to answer some misdemeanor."

Captain Archer also regards this matter in a different light from that in which Smith represents
it. In a letter from Jamestown, written in August, he says:

"In as much as the President [Smith], to strengthen his authority, accorded with the variances
and gave not any due respect to many worthy gentlemen that were in our ships, wherefore they
generally, with my consent, chose Master West, my Lord De La Ware's brother, their Governor
or President de bene esse, in the absence of Sir Thomas Gates, or if he be miscarried by sea,
then to continue till we heard news from our counsell in England. This choice of him they made
not to disturb the old President during his term, but as his authority expired, then to take
upon him the sole government, with such assistants of the captains or discreet persons as the
colony afforded.

"Perhaps you shall have it blamed as a mutinie by such as retaine old malice, but Master West,
Master Piercie, and all the respected gentlemen of worth in Virginia, can and will testify
otherwise upon their oaths. For the King's patent we ratified, but refused to be governed by
the President--that is, after his time was expired and only subjected ourselves to Master West,
whom we labor to have next President."

It is clear from this statement that the attempt was made to supersede Smith even before his
time expired, and without any authority (since the new commissions were still with Gates and
Somers in Bermuda), for the reason that Smith did not pay proper respect to the newly arrived
"gentlemen." Smith was no doubt dictatorial and offensive, and from his point of view he was
the only man who understood Virginia, and knew how successfully to conduct the affairs of the
colony. If this assumption were true it would be none the less disagreeable to the new-comers.

At the time of Smith's deposition the colony was in prosperous condition. The "General Historie"
says that he left them "with three ships, seven boats, commodities ready to trade, the harvest
newly gathered, ten weeks' provision in store, four hundred ninety and odd persons, twenty-four
pieces of ordnance, three hundred muskets, snaphances and fire-locks, shot, powder, and match
sufficient, curats, pikes, swords, and morrios, more than men; the Salvages, their language
and habitations well known to a hundred well-trained and expert soldiers; nets for fishing;
tools of all kinds to work; apparel to supply our wants; six mules and a horse; five or six
hundred swine; as many hens and chickens; some goats; some sheep; what was brought or bred
there remained." Jamestown was also strongly palisaded and contained some fifty or sixty houses;
besides there were five or six other forts and plantations, "not so sumptuous as our succerers
expected, they were better than they provided any for us."

These expectations might well be disappointed if they were founded upon the pictures of forts
and fortifications in Virginia and in the Somers Islands, which appeared in De Bry and in the
"General Historie," where they appear as massive stone structures with all the finish and elegance
of the European military science of the day.

Notwithstanding these ample provisions for the colony, Smith had small expectation that it
would thrive without him. "They regarding nothing," he says, "but from hand to mouth, did consume
what we had, took care for nothing but to perfect some colorable complaint against Captain Smith."

Nor was the composition of the colony such as to beget high hopes of it. There was but one
carpenter, and three others that desired to learn, two blacksmiths, ten sailors; those called
laborers were for the most part footmen, brought over to wait upon the adventurers, who did
not know what a day's work was--all the real laborers were the Dutchmen and Poles and some
dozen others. For when neither the fear of God, nor the law, nor shame, nor displeasure of
their friends could rule them here, there is small hope ever to bring one in twenty of them
to be good there." Some of them proved more industrious than was expected; "but ten good workmen
would have done more substantial work in a day than ten of them in a week."

The disreputable character of the majority of these colonists is abundantly proved by other
contemporary testimony. In the letter of the Governor and Council of Virginia to the London
Company, dated Jamestown, July 7, 1610, signed by Lord De La Ware, Thomas Gates, George Percy,
Ferd. Wenman, and William Strachey, and probably composed by Strachey, after speaking of the
bountiful capacity of the country, the writer exclaims: "Only let me truly acknowledge there
are not one hundred or two of deboisht hands, dropt forth by year after year, with penury and
leysure, ill provided for before they come, and worse governed when they are here, men of such
distempered bodies and infected minds, whom no examples daily before their eyes, either of
goodness or punishment, can deterr from their habituall impieties, or terrifie from a shameful
death, that must be the carpenters and workmen in this so glorious a building."

The chapter in the "General Historie" relating to Smith's last days in Virginia was transferred
from the narrative in the appendix to Smith's "Map of Virginia," Oxford, 1612, but much changed
in the transfer. In the "General Historie" Smith says very little about the nature of the charges
against him. In the original narrative signed by Richard Pots and edited by Smith, there are
more details of the charges. One omitted passage is this: "Now all those Smith had either whipped
or punished, or in any way disgraced, had free power and liberty to say or sweare anything,
and from a whole armful of their examinations this was concluded."

Another omitted passage relates to the charge, to which reference is made in the "General Historie,"
that Smith proposed to marry Pocahontas:

"Some propheticall spirit calculated he had the salvages in such subjection, he would have
made himself a king by marrying Pocahuntas, Powhatan's daughter. It is true she was the very
nonpareil of his kingdom, and at most not past thirteen or fourteen years of age. Very oft
she came to our fort with what she could get for Capt. Smith, that ever loved and used all
the country well, but her especially he ever much respected, and she so well requited it, that
when her father intended to have surprised him, she by stealth in the dark night came through
the wild woods and told him of it. But her marriage could in no way have entitled him by any
right to the kingdom, nor was it ever suspected he had such a thought, or more regarded her
or any of them than in honest reason and discretion he might. If he would he might have married
her, or have done what he listed. For there were none that could have hindered his determination."

It is fair, in passing, to remark that the above allusion to the night visit of Pocahontas
to Smith in this tract of 1612 helps to confirm the story, which does not appear in the previous
narration of Smith's encounter with Powhatan at Werowocomoco in the same tract, but is celebrated
in the "General Historie." It is also hinted plainly enough that Smith might have taken the
girl to wife, Indian fashion.

XIV. THE COLONY WITHOUT SMITH

It was necessary to follow for a time the fortune of the Virginia colony after the departure
of Captain Smith. Of its disasters and speedy decline there is no more doubt than there is
of the opinion of Smith that these were owing to his absence. The savages, we read in his narration,
no sooner knew he was gone than they all revolted and spoiled and murdered all they encountered.

The day before Captain Smith sailed, Captain Davis arrived in a small pinnace with sixteen
men. These, with a company from the fort under Captain Ratcliffe, were sent down to Point Comfort.
Captain West and Captain Martin, having lost their boats and half their men among the savages
at the Falls, returned to Jamestown. The colony now lived upon what Smith had provided, "and
now they had presidents with all their appurtenances." President Percy was so sick he could
neither go nor stand. Provisions getting short, West and Ratcliffe went abroad to trade, and
Ratcliffe and twenty-eight of his men were slain by an ambush of Powhatan's, as before related
in the narrative of Henry Spelman. Powhatan cut off their boats, and refused to trade, so that
Captain West set sail for England. What ensued cannot be more vividly told than in the "General
Historie":

"Now we all found the losse of Capt. Smith, yea his greatest maligners could now curse his
losse; as for corne provision and contribution from the salvages, we had nothing but mortall
wounds, with clubs and arrowes; as for our hogs, hens, goats, sheep, horse, or what lived,
our commanders, officers and salvages daily consumed them, some small proportions sometimes
we tasted, till all was devoured; then swords, arms, pieces or anything was traded with the
salvages, whose cruell fingers were so oft imbrued in our blouds, that what by their crueltie,
our Governor's indiscretion, and the losse of our ships, of five hundred within six months
after Capt. Smith's departure, there remained not past sixty men, women and children, most
miserable and poore creatures; and those were preserved for the most part, by roots, herbes,
acorns, walnuts, berries, now and then a little fish; they that had starch in these extremities
made no small use of it, yea, even the very skinnes of our horses. Nay, so great was our famine,
that a salvage we slew and buried, the poorer sort took him up again and eat him, and so did
divers one another boyled, and stewed with roots and herbs. And one amongst the rest did kill
his wife, poudered her and had eaten part of her before it was knowne, for which he was executed,
as he well deserved; now whether she was better roasted, boyled, or carbonaded, I know not,
but of such a dish as powdered wife I never heard of. This was that time, which still to this
day we called the starving time; it were too vile to say and scarce to be believed what we
endured; but the occasion was our owne, for want of providence, industrie and government, and
not the barreness and defect of the country as is generally supposed."

This playful allusion to powdered wife, and speculation as to how she was best cooked, is the
first instance we have been able to find of what is called "American humor," and Captain Smith
has the honor of being the first of the "American humorists" who have handled subjects of this
kind with such pleasing gayety.

It is to be noticed that this horrible story of cannibalism and wife-eating appears in Smith's
"General Historie" of 1624, without a word of contradiction or explanation, although the company
as early as 1610 had taken pains to get at the facts, and Smith must have seen their "Declaration,"
which supposes the story was started by enemies of the colony. Some reported they saw it, some
that Captain Smith said so, and some that one Beadle, the lieutenant of Captain Davis, did
relate it. In "A True Declaration of the State of the Colonie in Virginia," published by the
advice and direction of the Council of Virginia, London, 1610, we read:

"But to clear all doubt, Sir Thomas Yates thus relateth the tragedie:

"There was one of the company who mortally hated his wife, and therefore secretly killed her,
then cut her in pieces and hid her in divers parts of his house: when the woman was missing,
the man suspected, his house searched, and parts of her mangled body were discovered, to excuse
himself he said that his wife died, that he hid her to satisfie his hunger, and that he fed
daily upon her. Upon this his house was again searched, when they found a good quantitie of
meale, oatmeale, beanes and pease. Hee therefore was arraigned, confessed the murder, and was
burned for his horrible villainy."

This same "True Declaration," which singularly enough does not mention the name of Captain
Smith, who was so prominent an actor in Virginia during the period to which it relates, confirms
all that Smith said as to the character of the colonists, especially the new supply which landed
in the eight vessels with Ratcliffe and Archer. "Every man overvalueing his own strength would
be a commander; every man underprizing another's value, denied to be commanded." They were
negligent and improvident. "Every man sharked for his present bootie, but was altogether careless
of succeeding penurie." To idleness and faction was joined treason. About thirty "unhallowed
creatures," in the winter of 1610, some five months before the arrival of Captain Gates, seized
upon the ship Swallow, which had been prepared to trade with the Indians, and having obtained
corn conspired together and made a league to become pirates, dreaming of mountains of gold
and happy robberies. By this desertion they weakened the colony, which waited for their return
with the provisions, and they made implacable enemies of the Indians by their violence. "These
are that scum of men," which, after roving the seas and failing in their piracy, joined themselves
to other pirates they found on the sea, or returned to England, bound by a mutual oath to discredit
the land, and swore they were drawn away by famine. "These are they that roared at the tragicall
historie of the man eating up his dead wife in Virginia"--"scandalous reports of a viperous
generation."

If further evidence were wanting, we have it in "The New Life of Virginia," published by authority
of the Council, London, 1612. This is the second part of the "Nova Britannia," published in
London, 1609. Both are prefaced by an epistle to Sir Thomas Smith, one of the Council and treasurer,
signed "R. I." Neither document contains any allusion to Captain John Smith, or the part he
played in Virginia. The "New Life of Virginia," after speaking of the tempest which drove Sir
Thomas Gates on Bermuda, and the landing of the eight ships at Jamestown, says: "By which means
the body of the plantation was now augmented with such numbers of irregular persons that it
soon became as so many members without a head, who as they were bad and evil affected for the
most part before they went hence; so now being landed and wanting restraint, they displayed
their condition in all kinds of looseness, those chief and wisest guides among them (whereof
there were not many) did nothing but bitterly contend who should be first to command the rest,
the common sort, as is ever seen in such cases grew factious and disordered out of measure,
in so much as the poor colony seemed (like the Colledge of English fugitives in Rome) as a
hostile camp within itself; in which distemper that envious man stept in, sowing plentiful
tares in the hearts of all, which grew to such speedy confusion, that in few months ambition,
sloth and idleness had devoured the fruit of former labours, planting and sowing were clean
given over, the houses decayed, the church fell to ruin, the store was spent, the cattle consumed,
our people starved, and the Indians by wrongs and injuries made our enemies.... As for those
wicked Impes that put themselves a shipboard, not knowing otherwise how to live in England;
or those ungratious sons that daily vexed their fathers hearts at home, and were therefore
thrust upon the voyage, which either writing thence, or being returned back to cover their
own leudnes, do fill mens ears with false reports of their miserable and perilous life in Virginia,
let the imputation of misery be to their idleness, and the blood that was spilt upon their
own heads that caused it." These gallant gentlemen, with one hundred and fifty souls, had been
wrecked on the Bermudas in the Sea Venture in the preceding July. The terrors of the hurricane
which dispersed the fleet, and this shipwreck, were much dwelt upon by the writers of the time,
and the Bermudas became a sort of enchanted islands, or realms of the imagination. For three
nights, and three days that were as black as the nights, the water logged Sea Venture was scarcely
kept afloat by bailing. We have a vivid picture of the stanch Somers sitting upon the poop
of the ship, where he sat three days and three nights together, without much meat and little
or no sleep, conning the ship to keep her as upright as he could, until he happily descried
land. The ship went ashore and was wedged into the rocks so fast that it held together till
all were got ashore, and a good part of the goods and provisions, and the tackling and iron
of the ship necessary for the building and furnishing of a new ship.

This good fortune and the subsequent prosperous life on the island and final deliverance was
due to the noble Somers, or Sommers, after whom the Bermudas were long called "Sommers Isles,"
which was gradually corrupted into "The Summer Isles." These islands of Bermuda had ever been
accounted an enchanted pile of rocks and a desert inhabitation for devils, which the navigator
and mariner avoided as Scylla and Charybdis, or the devil himself. But this shipwrecked company
found it the most delightful country in the world, the climate was enchanting, delicious fruits
abounded, the waters swarmed with fish, some of them big enough to nearly drag the fishers
into the sea, while whales could be heard spouting and nosing about the rocks at night; birds
fat and tame and willing to be eaten covered all the bushes, and such droves of wild hogs covered
the island that the slaughter of them for months seemed not to diminish their number. The friendly
disposition of the birds seemed most to impress the writer of the "True Declaration of Virginia."
He remembers how the ravens fed Elias in the brook Cedron; "so God provided for our disconsolate
people in the midst of the sea by foules; but with an admirable difference; unto Elias the
ravens brought meat, unto our men the foules brought (themselves) for meate: for when they
whistled, or made any strange noyse, the foules would come and sit on their shoulders, they
would suffer themselves to be taken and weighed by our men, who would make choice of the fairest
and fattest and let flie the leane and lightest, an accident [the chronicler exclaims], I take
it [and everybody will take it], that cannot be paralleled by any Historie, except when God
sent abundance of Quayles to feed his Israel in the barren wilderness."

The rescued voyagers built themselves comfortable houses on the island, and dwelt there nine
months in good health and plentifully fed. Sunday was carefully observed, with sermons by Mr.
Buck, the chaplain, an Oxford man, who was assisted in the services by Stephen Hopkins, one
of the Puritans who were in the company. A marriage was celebrated between Thomas Powell, the
cook of Sir George Somers, and Elizabeth Persons, the servant of Mrs. Horlow. Two children
were also born, a boy who was christened Bermudas and a girl Bermuda. The girl was the child
of Mr. John Rolfe and wife, the Rolfe who was shortly afterward to become famous by another
marriage. In order that nothing should be wanting to the ordinary course of a civilized community,
a murder was committed. In the company were two Indians, Machumps and Namontack, whose acquaintance
we have before made, returning from England, whither they had been sent by Captain Smith. Falling
out about something, Machumps slew Namontack, and having made a hole to bury him, because it
was too short he cut off his legs and laid them by him. This proceeding Machumps concealed
till he was in Virginia.

Somers and Gates were busy building two cedar ships, the Deliverer, of eighty tons, and a pinnace
called the Patience. When these were completed, the whole company, except two scamps who remained
behind and had adventures enough for a three-volume novel, embarked, and on the 16th of May
sailed for Jamestown, where they arrived on the 23d or 24th, and found the colony in the pitiable
condition before described. A few famished settlers watched their coming. The church bell was
rung in the shaky edifice, and the emaciated colonists assembled and heard the "zealous and
sorrowful prayer" of Chaplain Buck. The commission of Sir Thomas Gates was read, and Mr. Percy
retired from the governorship.

The town was empty and unfurnished, and seemed like the ruin of some ancient fortification
rather than the habitation of living men. The palisades were down; the ports open; the gates
unhinged; the church ruined and unfrequented; the houses empty, torn to pieces or burnt; the
people not able to step into the woods to gather fire-wood; and the Indians killing as fast
without as famine and pestilence within. William Strachey was among the new-comers, and this
is the story that he despatched as Lord Delaware's report to England in July. On taking stock
of provisions there was found only scant rations for sixteen days, and Gates and Somers determined
to abandon the plantation, and, taking all on board their own ships, to make their way to Newfoundland,
in the hope of falling in with English vessels. Accordingly, on the 7th of June they got on
board and dropped down the James.

Meantime the news of the disasters to the colony, and the supposed loss of the Sea Venture,
had created a great excitement in London, and a panic and stoppage of subscriptions in the
company. Lord Delaware, a man of the highest reputation for courage and principle, determined
to go himself, as Captain-General, to Virginia, in the hope of saving the fortunes of the colony.
With three ships and one hundred and fifty persons, mostly artificers, he embarked on the 1st
of April, 1610, and reached the Chesapeake Bay on the 5th of June, just in time to meet the
forlorn company of Gates and Somers putting out to sea.

They turned back and ascended to Jamestown, when landing on Sunday, the 10th, after a sermon
by Mr. Buck, the commission of Lord Delaware was read, and Gates turned over his authority
to the new Governor.

On the 19th of June the brave old sailor, Sir George Somers, volunteered to return to the Bermudas
in his pinnace to procure hogs and other supplies for the colony. He was accompanied by Captain
Argall in the ship Discovery. After a rough voyage this noble old knight reached the Bermudas.
But his strength was not equal to the memorable courage of his mind. At a place called Saint
George he died, and his men, confounded at the death of him who was the life of them all, embalmed
his body and set sail for England. Captain Argall, after parting with his consort, without
reaching the Bermudas, and much beating about the coast, was compelled to return to Jamestown.

Captain Gates was sent to England with despatches and to procure more settlers and more supplies.
Lord Delaware remained with the colony less than a year; his health failing, he went in pursuit
of it, in March, 1611, to the West Indies. In June of that year Gates sailed again, with six
vessels, three hundred men, one hundred cows, besides other cattle, and provisions of all sorts.
With him went his wife, who died on the passage, and his daughters. His expedition reached
the James in August. The colony now numbered seven hundred persons. Gates seated himself at
Hampton, a "delicate and necessary site for a city."

Percy commanded at Jamestown, and Sir Thomas Dale went up the river to lay the foundations
of Henrico.

We have no occasion to follow further the fortunes of the Virginia colony, except to relate
the story of Pocahontas under her different names of Amonate, Matoaka, Mrs. Rolfe, and Lady
Rebecca.

XV. NEW ENGLAND ADVENTURES

Captain John Smith returned to England in the autumn of 1609, wounded in body and loaded with
accusations of misconduct, concocted by his factious companions in Virginia. There is no record
that these charges were ever considered by the London Company. Indeed, we cannot find that
the company in those days ever took any action on the charges made against any of its servants
in Virginia. Men came home in disgrace and appeared to receive neither vindication nor condemnation.
Some sunk into private life, and others more pushing and brazen, like Ratcliffe, the enemy
of Smith, got employment again after a time. The affairs of the company seem to have been conducted
with little order or justice.

Whatever may have been the justice of the charges against Smith, he had evidently forfeited
the good opinion of the company as a desirable man to employ. They might esteem his energy
and profit by his advice and experience, but they did not want his services. And in time he
came to be considered an enemy of the company.

Unfortunately for biographical purposes, Smith's life is pretty much a blank from 1609 to 1614.
When he ceases to write about himself he passes out of sight. There are scarcely any contemporary
allusions to his existence at this time. We may assume, however, from our knowledge of his
restlessness, ambition, and love of adventure, that he was not idle. We may assume that he
besieged the company with his plans for the proper conduct of the settlement of Virginia; that
he talked at large in all companies of his discoveries, his exploits, which grew by the relating,
and of the prospective greatness of the new Britain beyond the Atlantic. That he wearied the
Council by his importunity and his acquaintances by his hobby, we can also surmise. No doubt
also he was considered a fanatic by those who failed to comprehend the greatness of his schemes,
and to realize, as he did, the importance of securing the new empire to the English before
it was occupied by the Spanish and the French. His conceit, his boasting, and his overbearing
manner, which no doubt was one of the causes why he was unable to act in harmony with the other
adventurers of that day, all told against him. He was that most uncomfortable person, a man
conscious of his own importance, and out of favor and out of money.

Yet Smith had friends, and followers, and men who believed in him. This is shown by the remarkable
eulogies in verse from many pens, which he prefixes to the various editions of his many works.
They seem to have been written after reading the manuscripts, and prepared to accompany the
printed volumes and tracts. They all allude to the envy and detraction to which he was subject,
and which must have amounted to a storm of abuse and perhaps ridicule; and they all tax the
English vocabulary to extol Smith, his deeds, and his works. In putting forward these tributes
of admiration and affection, as well as in his constant allusion to the ill requital of his
services, we see a man fighting for his reputation, and conscious of the necessity of doing
so. He is ever turning back, in whatever he writes, to rehearse his exploits and to defend
his motives.

The London to which Smith returned was the London of Shakespeare's day; a city dirty, with
ill-paved streets unlighted at night, no sidewalks, foul gutters, wooden houses, gable ends
to the street, set thickly with small windows from which slops and refuse were at any moment
of the day or night liable to be emptied upon the heads of the passers by; petty little shops
in which were beginning to be displayed the silks and luxuries of the continent; a city crowded
and growing rapidly, subject to pestilences and liable to sweeping conflagrations. The Thames
had no bridges, and hundreds of boats plied between London side and Southwark, where were most
of the theatres, the bull-baitings, the bear-fighting, the public gardens, the residences of
the hussies, and other amusements that Bankside, the resort of all classes bent on pleasure,
furnished high or low. At no time before or since was there such fantastical fashion in dress,
both in cut and gay colors, nor more sumptuousness in costume or luxury in display among the
upper classes, and such squalor in low life. The press teemed with tracts and pamphlets, written
in language "as plain as a pikestaff," against the immoralities of the theatres, those "seminaries
of vice," and calling down the judgment of God upon the cost and the monstrosities of the dress
of both men and women; while the town roared on its way, warned by sermons, and instructed
in its chosen path by such plays and masques as Ben Jonson's "Pleasure reconciled to Virtue."

The town swarmed with idlers, and with gallants who wanted advancement but were unwilling to
adventure their ease to obtain it. There was much lounging in apothecaries' shops to smoke
tobacco, gossip, and hear the news. We may be sure that Smith found many auditors for his adventures
and his complaints. There was a good deal of interest in the New World, but mainly still as
a place where gold and other wealth might be got without much labor, and as a possible short
cut to the South Sea and Cathay. The vast number of Londoners whose names appear in the second
Virginia charter shows the readiness of traders to seek profit in adventure. The stir for wider
freedom in religion and government increased with the activity of exploration and colonization,
and one reason why James finally annulled the Virginia, charter was because he regarded the
meetings of the London Company as opportunities of sedition.

Smith is altogether silent about his existence at this time. We do not hear of him till 1612,
when his "Map of Virginia" with his description of the country was published at Oxford. The
map had been published before: it was sent home with at least a portion of the description
of Virginia. In an appendix appeared (as has been said) a series of narrations of Smith's exploits,
covering the rime he was in Virginia, written by his companions, edited by his friend Dr. Symonds,
and carefully overlooked by himself.

Failing to obtain employment by the Virginia company, Smith turned his attention to New England,
but neither did the Plymouth company avail themselves of his service. At last in 1614 he persuaded
some London merchants to fit him out for a private trading adventure to the coast of New England.
Accordingly with two ships, at the charge of Captain Marmaduke Roydon, Captain George Langam,
Mr. John Buley, and William Skelton, merchants, he sailed from the Downs on the 3d of March,
1614, and in the latter part of April "chanced to arrive in New England, a part of America
at the Isle of Monahiggan in 43 1/2 of Northerly latitude." This was within the territory appropriated
to the second (the Plymouth) colony by the patent of 1606, which gave leave of settlement between
the 38th and 44th parallels.

Smith's connection with New England is very slight, and mainly that of an author, one who labored
for many years to excite interest in it by his writings. He named several points, and made
a map of such portion of the coast as he saw, which was changed from time to time by other
observations. He had a remarkable eye for topography, as is especially evident by his map of
Virginia. This New England coast is roughly indicated in Venazzani's Plot Of 1524, and better
on Mercator's of a few years later, and in Ortelius's "Theatrum Orbis Terarum" of 1570; but
in Smith's map we have for the first time a fair approach to the real contour.

Of Smith's English predecessors on this coast there is no room here to speak. Gosnold had described
Elizabeth's Isles, explorations and settlements had been made on the coast of Maine by Popham
and Weymouth, but Smith claims the credit of not only drawing the first fair map of the coast,
but of giving the name "New England" to what had passed under the general names of Virginia,
Canada, Norumbaga, etc.

Smith published his description of New England June 18, 1616, and it is in that we must follow
his career. It is dedicated to the "high, hopeful Charles, Prince of Great Britain," and is
prefaced by an address to the King's Council for all the plantations, and another to all the
adventurers into New England. The addresses, as usual, call attention to his own merits. "Little
honey [he writes] hath that hive, where there are more drones than bees; and miserable is that
land where more are idle than are well employed. If the endeavors of these vermin be acceptable,
I hope mine may be excusable: though I confess it were more proper for me to be doing what
I say than writing what I know. Had I returned rich I could not have erred; now having only
such food as came to my net, I must be taxed. But, I would my taxers were as ready to adventure
their purses as I, purse, life, and all I have; or as diligent to permit the charge, as I know
they are vigilant to reap the fruits of my labors." The value of the fisheries he had demonstrated
by his catch; and he says, looking, as usual, to large results, "but because I speak so much
of fishing, if any mistake me for such a devote fisher, as I dream of nought else, they mistake
me. I know a ring of gold from a grain of barley as well as a goldsmith; and nothing is there
to be had which fishing doth hinder, but further us to obtain."

John Smith first appears on the New England coast as a whale fisher. The only reference to
his being in America in Josselyn's "Chronological Observations of America" is under the wrong
year, 1608: "Capt. John Smith fished now for whales at Monhiggen." He says: "Our plot there
was to take whales, and made tryall of a Myne of gold and copper;" these failing they were
to get fish and furs. Of gold there had been little expectation, and (he goes on) "we found
this whale fishing a costly conclusion; we saw many, and spent much time in chasing them; but
could not kill any; they being a kind of Jubartes, and not the whale that yeeldes finnes and
oyle as we expected." They then turned their attention to smaller fish, but owing to their
late arrival and "long lingering about the whale"--chasing a whale that they could not kill
because it was not the right kind--the best season for fishing was passed. Nevertheless, they
secured some 40,000 cod--the figure is naturally raised to 60,000 when Smith retells the story
fifteen years afterwards.

But our hero was a born explorer, and could not be content with not examining the strange coast
upon which he found himself. Leaving his sailors to catch cod, he took eight or nine men in
a small boat, and cruised along the coast, trading wherever he could for furs, of which he
obtained above a thousand beaver skins; but his chance to trade was limited by the French settlements
in the east, by the presence of one of Popham's ships opposite Monhegan, on the main, and by
a couple of French vessels to the westward. Having examined the coast from Penobscot to Cape
Cod, and gathered a profitable harvest from the sea, Smith returned in his vessel, reaching
the Downs within six months after his departure. This was his whole experience in New England,
which ever afterwards he regarded as particularly his discovery, and spoke of as one of his
children, Virginia being the other.

With the other vessel Smith had trouble. He accuses its master, Thomas Hunt, of attempting
to rob him of his plots and observations, and to leave him "alone on a desolate isle, to the
fury of famine, And all other extremities." After Smith's departure the rascally Hunt decoyed
twenty-seven unsuspecting savages on board his ship and carried them off to Spain, where he
sold them as slaves. Hunt sold his furs at a great profit. Smith's cargo also paid well: in
his letter to Lord Bacon in 1618 he says that with forty-five men he had cleared L 1,500 in
less than three months on a cargo of dried fish and beaver skins--a pound at that date had
five times the purchasing power of a pound now.

The explorer first landed on Monhegan, a small island in sight of which in the war of 1812
occurred the lively little seafight of the American Wasp and the British Frolic, in which the
Wasp was the victor, but directly after, with her prize, fell into the hands of an English
seventy-four.

He made certainly a most remarkable voyage in his open boat. Between Penobscot and Cape Cod
(which he called Cape James) he says he saw forty several habitations, and sounded about twenty-five
excellent harbors. Although Smith accepted the geographical notion of his time, and thought
that Florida adjoined India, he declared that Virginia was not an island, but part of a great
continent, and he comprehended something of the vastness of the country he was coasting along,
"dominions which stretch themselves into the main, God doth know how many thousand miles, of
which one could no more guess the extent and products than a stranger sailing betwixt England
and France could tell what was in Spain, Italy, Germany, Bohemia, Hungary, and the rest." And
he had the prophetic vision, which he more than once refers to, of one of the greatest empires
of the world that would one day arise here. Contrary to the opinion that prevailed then and
for years after, he declared also that New England was not an island.

Smith describes with considerable particularity the coast, giving the names of the Indian tribes,
and cataloguing the native productions, vegetable and animal. He bestows his favorite names
liberally upon points and islands--few of which were accepted. Cape Ann he called from his
charming Turkish benefactor, "Cape Tragabigzanda"; the three islands in front of it, the "Three
Turks' Heads"; and the Isles of Shoals he simply describes: "Smyth's Isles are a heape together,
none neare them, against Acconimticus." Cape Cod, which appears upon all the maps before Smith's
visit as "Sandy" cape, he says "is only a headland of high hills of sand, overgrown with shrubbie
pines, hurts [whorts, whortleberries] and such trash; but an excellent harbor for all weathers.
This Cape is made by the maine Sea on the one side, and a great bay on the other in the form
of a sickle."

A large portion of this treatise on New England is devoted to an argument to induce the English
to found a permanent colony there, of which Smith shows that he would be the proper leader.
The main staple for the present would be fish, and he shows how Holland has become powerful
by her fisheries and the training of hardy sailors. The fishery would support a colony until
it had obtained a good foothold, and control of these fisheries would bring more profit to
England than any other occupation. There are other reasons than gain that should induce in
England the large ambition of founding a great state, reasons of religion and humanity, erecting
towns, peopling countries, informing the ignorant, reforming things unjust, teaching virtue,
finding employment for the idle, and giving to the mother country a kingdom to attend her.
But he does not expect the English to indulge in such noble ambitions unless he can show a
profit in them.

"I have not [he says] been so ill bred but I have tasted of plenty and pleasure, as well as
want and misery; nor doth a necessity yet, nor occasion of discontent, force me to these endeavors;
nor am I ignorant that small thank I shall have for my pains; or that many would have the world
imagine them to be of great judgment, that can but blemish these my designs, by their witty
objections and detractions; yet (I hope) my reasons and my deeds will so prevail with some,
that I shall not want employment in these affairs to make the most blind see his own senselessness
and incredulity; hoping that gain will make them affect that which religion, charity and the
common good cannot.... For I am not so simple to think that ever any other motive than wealth
will ever erect there a Commonwealth; or draw company from their ease and humours at home,
to stay in New England to effect any purpose."

But lest the toils of the new settlement should affright his readers, our author draws an idyllic
picture of the simple pleasures which nature and liberty afford here freely, but which cost
so dearly in England. Those who seek vain pleasure in England take more pains to enjoy it than
they would spend in New England to gain wealth, and yet have not half such sweet content. What
pleasure can be more, he exclaims, when men are tired of planting vines and fruits and ordering
gardens, orchards and building to their mind, than "to recreate themselves before their owne
doore, in their owne boates upon the Sea, where man, woman and child, with a small hooke and
line, by angling, may take divers sorts of excellent fish at their pleasures?

Smith made a most attractive picture of the fertility of the soil and the fruitfulness of the
country. Nothing was too trivial to be mentioned. "There are certain red berries called Alkermes
which is worth ten shillings a pound, but of these hath been sold for thirty or forty shillings
the pound, may yearly be gathered a good quantity." John Josselyn, who was much of the time
in New England from 1638 to 1671 and saw more marvels there than anybody else ever imagined,
says, "I have sought for this berry he speaks of, as a man should for a needle in a bottle
of hay, but could never light upon it; unless that kind of Solomon's seal called by the English
treacle-berry should be it."

Towards the last of August, 1614, Smith was back at Plymouth. He had now a project of a colony
which he imparted to his friend Sir Ferdinand Gorges. It is difficult from Smith's various
accounts to say exactly what happened to him next. It would appear that he declined to go with
an expedition of four ship which the Virginia company despatched in 1615, and incurred their
ill-will by refusing, but he considered himself attached to the western or Plymouth company.
Still he experienced many delays from them: they promised four ships to be ready at Plymouth;
on his arrival "he found no such matter," and at last he embarked in a private expedition,
to found a colony at the expense of Gorges, Dr. Sutliffe, Bishop o Exeter, and a few gentlemen
in London. In January 1615, he sailed from Plymouth with a ship Of 20 tons, and another of
50. His intention was, after the fishing was over, to remain in New England with only fifteen
men and begin a colony.

These hopes were frustrated. When only one hundred and twenty leagues out all the masts of
his vessels were carried away in a storm, and it was only by diligent pumping that he was able
to keep his craft afloat and put back to Plymouth. Thence on the 24th of June he made another
start in a vessel of sixty tons with thirty men. But ill-luck still attended him. He had a
queer adventure with pirates. Lest the envious world should not believe his own story, Smith
had Baker, his steward, and several of his crew examined before a magistrate at Plymouth, December
8, 1615, who support his story by their testimony up to a certain point.

It appears that he was chased two days by one Fry, an English pirate, in a greatly superior
vessel, heavily armed and manned. By reason of the foul weather the pirate could not board
Smith, and his master, mate, and pilot, Chambers, Minter, and Digby, importuned him to surrender,
and that he should send a boat to the pirate, as Fry had no boat. This singular proposal Smith
accepted on condition Fry would not take anything that would cripple his voyage, or send more
men aboard (Smith furnishing the boat) than he allowed. Baker confessed that the quartermaster
and Chambers received gold of the pirates, for what purpose it does not appear. They came on
board, but Smith would not come out of his cabin to entertain them, "although a great many
of them had been his sailors, and for his love would have wafted us to the Isle of Flowers."

Having got rid of the pirate Fry by this singular manner of receiving gold from him, Smith's
vessel was next chased by two French pirates at Fayal. Chambers, Minter, and Digby again desired
Smith to yield, but he threatened to blow up his ship if they did not stand to the defense;
and so they got clear of the French pirates. But more were to come.

At "Flowers" they were chased by four French men-of-war. Again Chambers, Minter, and Digby
importuned Smith to yield, and upon the consideration that he could speak French, and that
they were Protestants of Rochelle and had the King's commission to take Spaniards, Portuguese,
and pirates, Smith, with some of his company, went on board one of the French ships. The next
day the French plundered Smith's vessel and distributed his crew among their ships, and for
a week employed his boat in chasing all the ships that came in sight. At the end of this bout
they surrendered her again to her crew, with victuals but no weapons. Smith exhorted his officers
to proceed on their voyage for fish, either to New England or Newfoundland. This the officers
declined to do at first, but the soldiers on board compelled them, and thereupon Captain Smith
busied himself in collecting from the French fleet and sending on board his bark various commodities
that belonged to her--powder, match, books, instruments, his sword and dagger, bedding, aquavite,
his commission, apparel, and many other things. These articles Chambers and the others divided
among themselves, leaving Smith, who was still on board the Frenchman, only his waistcoat and
breeches. The next day, the weather being foul, they ran so near the Frenchman as to endanger
their yards, and Chambers called to Captain Smith to come aboard or he would leave him. Smith
ordered him to send a boat; Chambers replied that his boat was split, which was a lie, and
told him to come off in the Frenchman's boat. Smith said he could not command that, and so
they parted. The English bark returned to Plymouth, and Smith was left on board the French
man-of-war.

Smith himself says that Chambers had persuaded the French admiral that if Smith was let to
go on his boat he would revenge himself on the French fisheries on the Banks.

For over two months, according to his narration, Smith was kept on board the Frenchman, cruising
about for prizes, "to manage their fight against the Spaniards, and be in a prison when they
took any English." One of their prizes was a sugar caraval from Brazil; another was a West
Indian worth two hundred thousand crowns, which had on board fourteen coffers of wedges of
silver, eight thousand royals of eight, and six coffers of the King of Spain's treasure, besides
the pillage and rich coffers of many rich passengers. The French captain, breaking his promise
to put Smith ashore at Fayal, at length sent him towards France on the sugar caravel. When
near the coast, in a night of terrible storm, Smith seized a boat and escaped. It was a tempest
that wrecked all the vessels on the coast, and for twelve hours Smith was drifting about in
his open boat, in momentary expectation of sinking, until he was cast upon the oozy isle of
"Charowne," where the fowlers picked him up half dead with water, cold, and hunger, and he
got to Rochelle, where he made complaint to the Judge of Admiralty. Here he learned that the
rich prize had been wrecked in the storm and the captain and half the crew drowned. But from
the wreck of this great prize thirty-six thousand crowns' worth of jewels came ashore. For
his share in this Smith put in his claim with the English ambassador at Bordeaux. The Captain
was hospitably treated by the Frenchmen. He met there his old friend Master Crampton, and he
says: "I was more beholden to the Frenchmen that escaped drowning in the man-of-war, Madam
Chanoyes of Rotchell, and the lawyers of Burdeaux, than all the rest of my countrymen I met
in France." While he was waiting there to get justice, he saw the "arrival of the King's great
marriage brought from Spain." This is all his reference to the arrival of Anne of Austria,
eldest daughter of Philip III., who had been betrothed to Louis XIII. in 1612, one of the double
Spanish marriages which made such a commotion in France.

Leaving his business in France unsettled (forever), Smith returned to Plymouth, to find his
reputation covered with infamy and his clothes, books, and arms divided among the mutineers
of his boat. The chiefest of these he "laid by the heels," as usual, and the others confessed
and told the singular tale we have outlined. It needs no comment, except that Smith had a facility
for unlucky adventures unequaled among the uneasy spirits of his age. Yet he was as buoyant
as a cork, and emerged from every disaster with more enthusiasm for himself and for new ventures.
Among the many glowing tributes to himself in verse that Smith prints with this description
is one signed by a soldier, Edw. Robinson, which begins:

   "Oft thou hast led, when I brought up the Rere,
    In bloody wars where thousands have been slaine."

This common soldier, who cannot help breaking out in poetry when he thinks of Smith, is made
to say that Smith was his captain "in the fierce wars of Transylvania," and he apostrophizes him:

   "Thou that to passe the worlds foure parts dost deeme
    No more, than ewere to goe to bed or drinke,
    And all thou yet hast done thou dost esteeme
    As nothing.

   "For mee: I not commend but much admire
    Thy England yet unknown to passers by-her,
    For it will praise itselfe in spight of me:
    Thou, it, it, thou, to all posteritie."

XVI. NEW ENGLAND'S TRIALS

Smith was not cast down by his reverses. No sooner had he laid his latest betrayers by the
heels than he set himself resolutely to obtain money and means for establishing a colony in
New England, and to this project and the cultivation in England of interest in New England
he devoted the rest of his life.

His Map and Description of New England was published in 1616, and he became a colporteur of
this, beseeching everywhere a hearing for his noble scheme. It might have been in 1617, while
Pocahontas was about to sail for Virginia, or perhaps after her death, that he was again in
Plymouth, provided with three good ships, but windbound for three months, so that the season
being past, his design was frustrated, and his vessels, without him, made a fishing expedition
to Newfoundland.

It must have been in the summer of this year that he was at Plymouth with divers of his personal
friends, and only a hundred pounds among them all. He had acquainted the nobility with his
projects, and was afraid to see the Prince Royal before he had accomplished anything, "but
their great promises were nothing but air to prepare the voyage against the next year." He
spent that summer in the west of England, visiting "Bristol, Exeter, Bastable? Bodman, Perin,
Foy, Milborow, Saltash, Dartmouth, Absom, Pattnesse, and the most of the gentry in Cornwall
and Devonshire, giving them books and maps," and inciting them to help his enterprise.

So well did he succeed, he says, that they promised him twenty sail of ships to go with him
the next year, and to pay him for his pains and former losses. The western commissioners, in
behalf of the company, contracted with him, under indented articles, "to be admiral of that
country during my life, and in the renewing of the letters-patent so to be nominated"; half
the profits of the enterprise to be theirs, and half to go to Smith and his companions.

Nothing seems to have come out of this promising induction except the title of "Admiral of
New England," which Smith straightway assumed and wore all his life, styling himself on the
title-page of everything he printed, "Sometime Governor of Virginia and Admiral of New England."
As the generous Captain had before this time assumed this title, the failure of the contract
could not much annoy him. He had about as good right to take the sounding name of Admiral as
merchants of the west of England had to propose to give it to him.

The years wore away, and Smith was beseeching aid, republishing his works, which grew into
new forms with each issue, and no doubt making himself a bore wherever he was known. The first
edition of "New England's Trials"--by which he meant the various trials and attempts to settle
New England was published in 1620. It was to some extent a repetition of his "Description"
of 1616. In it he made no reference to Pocahontas. But in the edition of 1622, which is dedicated
to Charles, Prince of Wales, and considerably enlarged, he drops into this remark about his
experience at Jamestown: "It Is true in our greatest extremitie they shot me, slue three of
my men, and by the folly of them that fled tooke me prisoner; yet God made Pocahontas the king's
daughter the meanes to deliver me: and thereby taught me to know their treacheries to preserve
the rest. [This is evidently an allusion to the warning Pocahontas gave him at Werowocomoco.]
It was also my chance in single combat to take the king of Paspahegh prisoner, and by keeping
him, forced his subjects to work in chains till I made all the country pay contribution having
little else whereon to live."

This was written after he had heard of the horrible massacre of 1622 at Jamestown, and he cannot
resist the temptation to draw a contrast between the present and his own management. He explains
that the Indians did not kill the English because they were Christians, but to get their weapons
and commodities. How different it was when he was in Virginia. "I kept that country with but
38, and had not to eat but what we had from the savages. When I had ten men able to go abroad,
our commonwealth was very strong: with such a number I ranged that unknown country 14 weeks:
I had but 18 to subdue them all." This is better than Sir John Falstaff. But he goes on: "When
I first went to those desperate designes it cost me many a forgotten pound to hire men to go,
and procrastination caused more run away than went." "Twise in that time I was President."
[It will be remembered that about the close of his first year he gave up the command, for form's
sake, to Capt. Martin, for three hours, and then took it again.] "To range this country of
New England in like manner, I had but eight, as is said, and amongst their bruite conditions
I met many of their silly encounters, and without any hurt, God be thanked." The valiant Captain
had come by this time to regard himself as the inventor and discoverer of Virginia and New
England, which were explored and settled at the cost of his private pocket, and which he is
not ashamed to say cannot fare well in his absence. Smith, with all his good opinion of himself,
could not have imagined how delicious his character would be to readers in after-times. As
he goes on he warms up: "Thus you may see plainly the yearly success from New England by Virginia,
which hath been so costly to this kingdom and so dear to me.

As to the charge that he was unfortunate, which we should think might have become current from
the Captain's own narratives, he tells his maligners that if they had spent their time as he
had done, they would rather believe in God than in their own calculations, and peradventure
might have had to give as bad an account of their actions. It is strange they should tax him
before they have tried what he tried in Asia, Europe, and America, where he never needed to
importune for a reward, nor ever could learn to beg: "These sixteen years I have spared neither
pains nor money, according to my ability, first to procure his majesty's letters patent, and
a Company here to be the means to raise a company to go with me to Virginia [this is the expedition
of 1606 in which he was without command] as is said: which beginning here and there cost me
near five years work, and more than 500 pounds of my own estate, besides all the dangers, miseries
and encumbrances I endured gratis, where I stayed till I left 500 better provided than ever
I was: from which blessed Virgin (ere I returned) sprung the fortunate habitation of Somer
Isles." "Ere I returned" is in Smith's best vein. The casual reader would certainly conclude
that the Somers Isles were somehow due to the providence of John Smith, when in fact he never
even heard that Gates and Smith were shipwrecked there till he had returned to England, sent
home from Virginia. Neill says that Smith ventured L 9 in the Virginia company! But he does
not say where he got the money.

New England, he affirms, hath been nearly as chargeable to him and his friends: he never got
a shilling but it cost him a pound. And now, when New England is prosperous and a certainty,
"what think you I undertook when nothing was known, but that there was a vast land." These
are some of the considerations by which he urges the company to fit out an expedition for him:
"thus betwixt the spur of desire and the bridle of reason I am near ridden to death in a ring
of despair; the reins are in your hands, therefore I entreat you to ease me."

The Admiral of New England, who since he enjoyed the title had had neither ship, nor sailor,
nor rod of land, nor cubic yard of salt water under his command, was not successful in his
several "Trials." And in the hodge-podge compilation from himself and others, which he had
put together shortly after,--the "General Historie," he pathetically exclaims: "Now all these
proofs and this relation, I now called New England's Trials. I caused two or three thousand
of them to be printed, one thousand with a great many maps both of Virginia and New England,
I presented to thirty of the chief companies in London at their Halls, desiring either generally
or particularly (them that would) to imbrace it and by the use of a stock of five thousand
pounds to ease them of the superfluity of most of their companies that had but strength and
health to labor; near a year I spent to understand their resolutions, which was to me a greater
toil and torment, than to have been in New England about my business but with bread and water,
and what I could get by my labor; but in conclusion, seeing nothing would be effected I was
contented as well with this loss of time and change as all the rest."

In his "Advertisements" he says that at his own labor, cost, and loss he had "divulged more
than seven thousand books and maps," in order to influence the companies, merchants and gentlemen
to make a plantation, but "all availed no more than to hew Rocks with Oister-shels."

His suggestions about colonizing were always sensible. But we can imagine the group of merchants
in Cheapside gradually dissolving as Smith hove in sight with his maps and demonstrations.

In 1618, Smith addressed a letter directly to Lord Bacon, to which there seems to have been
no answer. The body of it was a condensation of what he had repeatedly written about New England,
and the advantage to England of occupying the fisheries. "This nineteen years," he writes,
"I have encountered no few dangers to learn what here I write in these few leaves:... their
fruits I am certain may bring both wealth and honor for a crown and a kingdom to his majesty's
posterity." With 5,000, pounds he will undertake to establish a colony, and he asks of his
Majesty a pinnace to lodge his men and defend the coast for a few months, until the colony
gets settled. Notwithstanding his disappointments and losses, he is still patriotic, and offers
his experience to his country: "Should I present it to the Biskayners, French and Hollanders,
they have made me large offers. But nature doth bind me thus to beg at home, whom strangers
have pleased to create a commander abroad.... Though I can promise no mines of gold, the Hollanders
are an example of my project, whose endeavors by fishing cannot be suppressed by all the King
of Spain's golden powers. Worth is more than wealth, and industrious subjects are more to a
kingdom than gold. And this is so certain a course to get both as I think was never propounded
to any state for so small a charge, seeing I can prove it, both by example, reason and experience."

Smith's maxims were excellent, his notions of settling New England were sound and sensible,
and if writing could have put him in command of New England, there would have been no room
for the Puritans. He addressed letter after letter to the companies of Virginia and Plymouth,
giving them distinctly to understand that they were losing time by not availing themselves
of his services and his project. After the Virginia massacre, he offered to undertake to drive
the savages out of their country with a hundred soldiers and thirty sailors. He heard that
most of the company liked exceedingly well the notion, but no reply came to his overture.

He laments the imbecility in the conduct of the new plantations. At first, he says, it was
feared the Spaniards would invade the plantations or the English Papists dissolve them: but
neither the councils of Spain nor the Papists could have desired a better course to ruin the
plantations than have been pursued; "It seems God is angry to see Virginia in hands so strange
where nothing but murder and indiscretion contends for the victory."

In his letters to the company and to the King's commissions for the reformation of Virginia,
Smith invariably reproduces his own exploits, until we can imagine every person in London,
who could read, was sick of the story. He reminds them of his unrequited services: "in neither
of those two countries have I one foot of land, nor the very house I builded, nor the ground
I digged with my own hands, nor ever any content or satisfaction at all, and though I see ordinarily
those two countries shared before me by them that neither have them nor knows them, but by
my descriptions.... For the books and maps I have made, I will thank him that will show me
so much for so little recompense, and bear with their errors till I have done better. For the
materials in them I cannot deny, but am ready to affirm them both there and here, upon such
ground as I have propounded, which is to have but fifteen hundred men to subdue again the Salvages,
fortify the country, discover that yet unknown, and both defend and feed their colony."

There is no record that these various petitions and letters of advice were received by the
companies, but Smith prints them in his History, and gives also seven questions propounded
to him by the commissioners, with his replies; in which he clearly states the cause of the
disasters in the colonies, and proposes wise and statesman-like remedies. He insists upon industry
and good conduct: "to rectify a commonwealth with debauched people is impossible, and no wise
man would throw himself into such society, that intends honestly, and knows what he understands,
for there is no country to pillage, as the Romans found; all you expect from thence must be
by labour."

Smith was no friend to tobacco, and although he favored the production to a certain limit as
a means of profit, it is interesting to note his true prophecy that it would ultimately be
a demoralizing product. He often proposes the restriction of its cultivation, and speaks with
contempt of "our men rooting in the ground about tobacco like swine." The colony would have
been much better off "had they not so much doated on their tobacco, on whose furnish foundation
there is small stability."

So long as he lived, Smith kept himself informed of the progress of adventure and settlement
in the New World, reading all relations and eagerly questioning all voyagers, and transferring
their accounts to his own History, which became a confused patchwork of other men's exploits
and his own reminiscences and reflections. He always regards the new plantations as somehow
his own, and made in the light of his advice; and their mischances are usually due to the neglect
of his counsel. He relates in this volume the story of the Pilgrims in 1620 and the years following,
and of the settlement of the Somers Isles, making himself appear as a kind of Providence over
the New World.

Out of his various and repetitious writings might be compiled quite a hand-book of maxims and
wise saws. Yet all had in steady view one purpose--to excite interest in his favorite projects,
to shame the laggards of England out of their idleness, and to give himself honorable employment
and authority in the building up of a new empire. "Who can desire," he exclaims, "more content
that hath small means, or but only his merit to advance his fortunes, than to tread and plant
that ground he hath purchased by the hazard of his life; if he have but the taste of virtue
and magnanimity, what to such a mind can be more pleasant than planting and building a foundation
for his posterity, got from the rude earth by God's blessing and his own industry without prejudice
to any; if he have any grace of faith or zeal in Religion, what can be more healthful to any
or more agreeable to God than to convert those poor salvages to know Christ and humanity, whose
labours and discretion will triply requite any charge and pain."

"Then who would live at home idly," he exhorts his countrymen, "or think in himself any worth
to live, only to eat, drink and sleep, and so die; or by consuming that carelessly his friends
got worthily, or by using that miserably that maintained virtue honestly, or for being descended
nobly, or pine with the vain vaunt of great kindred in penury, or to maintain a silly show
of bravery, toil out thy heart, soul and time basely; by shifts, tricks, cards and dice, or
by relating news of other men's actions, sharke here and there for a dinner or supper, deceive
thy friends by fair promises and dissimulations, in borrowing when thou never meanest to pay,
offend the laws, surfeit with excess, burden thy country, abuse thyself, despair in want, and
then cozen thy kindred, yea, even thy own brother, and wish thy parent's death (I will not
say damnation), to have their estates, though thou seest what honors and rewards the world
yet hath for them that will seek them and worthily deserve them."

"I would be sorry to offend, or that any should mistake my honest meaning: for I wish good
to all, hurt to none; but rich men for the most part are grown to that dotage through their
pride in their wealth, as though there were no accident could end it or their life."

"And what hellish care do such take to make it their own misery and their countrie's spoil,
especially when there is such need of their employment, drawing by all manner of inventions
from the Prince and his honest subjects, even the vital spirits of their powers and estates;
as if their bags or brags were so powerful a defense, the malicious could not assault them,
when they are the only bait to cause us not only to be assaulted, but betrayed and smothered
in our own security ere we will prevent it."

And he adds this good advice to those who maintain their children in wantonness till they grow
to be the masters: "Let this lamentable example [the ruin of Constantinople] remember you that
are rich (seeing there are such great thieves in the world to rob you) not grudge to lend some
proportion to breed them that have little, yet willing to learn how to defend you, for it is
too late when the deed is done."

No motive of action did Smith omit in his importunity, for "Religion above all things should
move us, especially the clergy, if we are religious." "Honor might move the gentry, the valiant
and industrious, and the hope and assurance of wealth all, if we were that we would seem and
be accounted; or be we so far inferior to other nations, or our spirits so far dejected from
our ancient predecessors, or our minds so upon spoil, piracy and such villainy, as to serve
the Portugall, Spaniard, Dutch, French or Turke (as to the cost of Europe too many do), rather
than our own God, our king, our country, and ourselves; excusing our idleness and our base
complaints by want of employment, when here is such choice of all sorts, and for all degrees,
in the planting and discovering these North parts of America."

It was all in vain so far as Smith's fortunes were concerned. The planting and subjection of
New England went on, and Smith had no part in it except to describe it. The Brownists, the
Anabaptists, the Papists, the Puritans, the Separatists, and "such factious Humorists," were
taking possession of the land that Smith claimed to have "discovered," and in which he had
no foothold. Failing to get employment anywhere, he petitioned the Virginia Company for a reward
out of the treasury in London or the profits in Virginia.

At one of the hot discussions in 1623 preceding the dissolution of the Virginia Company by
the revocation of their charter, Smith was present, and said that he hoped for his time spent
in Virginia he should receive that year a good quantity of tobacco. The charter was revoked
in 1624 after many violent scenes, and King James was glad to be rid of what he called "a seminary
for a seditious parliament." The company had made use of lotteries to raise funds, and upon
their disuse, in 1621, Smith proposed to the company to compile for its benefit a general history.
This he did, but it does not appear that the company took any action on his proposal. At one
time he had been named, with three others, as a fit person for secretary, on the removal of
Mr. Pory, but as only three could be balloted for, his name was left out. He was, however,
commended as entirely competent.

After the dissolution of the companies, and the granting of new letters-patent to a company
of some twenty noblemen, there seems to have been a project for dividing up the country by
lot. Smith says: "All this they divided in twenty parts, for which they cast lots, but no lot
for me but Smith's Isles, which are a many of barren rocks, the most overgrown with shrubs,
and sharp whins, you can hardly pass them; without either grass or wood, but three or four
short shrubby old cedars."

The plan was not carried out, and Smith never became lord of even these barren rocks, the Isles
of Shoals. That he visited them when he sailed along the coast is probable, though he never
speaks of doing so. In the Virginia waters he had left a cluster of islands bearing his name also.

In the Captain's "True Travels," published in 1630, is a summary of the condition of colonization
in New England from Smith's voyage thence till the settlement of Plymouth in 1620, which makes
an appropriate close to our review of this period:

"When I first went to the North part of Virginia, where the Westerly Colony had been planted,
it had dissolved itself within a year, and there was not one Christian in all the land. I was
set forth at the sole charge of four merchants of London; the Country being then reputed by
your westerlings a most rocky, barren, desolate desart; but the good return I brought from
thence, with the maps and relations of the Country, which I made so manifest, some of them
did believe me, and they were well embraced, both by the Londoners, and Westerlings, for whom
I had promised to undertake it, thinking to have joyned them all together, but that might well
have been a work for Hercules. Betwixt them long there was much contention: the Londoners indeed
went bravely forward: but in three or four years I and my friends consumed many hundred pounds
amongst the Plimothians, who only fed me but with delays, promises, and excuses, but no performance
of anything to any purpose. In the interim, many particular ships went thither, and finding
my relations true, and that I had not taken that I brought home from the French men, as had
been reported: yet further for my pains to discredit me, and my calling it New England, they
obscured it, and shadowed it, with the title of Canada, till at my humble suit, it pleased
our most Royal King Charles, whom God long keep, bless and preserve, then Prince of Wales,
to confirm it with my map and book, by the title of New England; the gain thence returning
did make the fame thereof so increase that thirty, forty or fifty sail went yearly only to
trade and fish; but nothing would be done for a plantation, till about some hundred of your
Brownists of England, Amsterdam and Leyden went to New Plimouth, whose humorous ignorances,
caused them for more than a year, to endure a wonderful deal of misery, with an infinite patience;
saying my books and maps were much better cheap to teach them than myself: many others have
used the like good husbandry that have payed soundly in trying their self-willed conclusions;
but those in time doing well, diverse others have in small handfulls undertaken to go there,
to be several Lords and Kings of themselves, but most vanished to nothing."

XVII. WRITINGS-LATER YEARS

If Smith had not been an author, his exploits would have occupied a small space in the literature
of his times. But by his unwearied narrations he impressed his image in gigantic features on
our plastic continent. If he had been silent, he would have had something less than justice;
as it is, he has been permitted to greatly exaggerate his relations to the New World. It is
only by noting the comparative silence of his contemporaries and by winnowing his own statements
that we can appreciate his true position.

For twenty years he was a voluminous writer, working off his superfluous energy in setting
forth his adventures in new forms. Most of his writings are repetitions and recastings of the
old material, with such reflections as occur to him from time to time. He seldom writes a book,
or a tract, without beginning it or working into it a resume of his life. The only exception
to this is his "Sea Grammar." In 1626 he published "An Accidence or the Pathway to Experience,
necessary to all Young Seamen," and in 1627 "A Sea Grammar, with the plain Exposition of Smith's
Accidence for Young Seamen, enlarged." This is a technical work, and strictly confined to the
building, rigging, and managing of a ship. He was also engaged at the time of his death upon
a "History of the Sea," which never saw the light. He was evidently fond of the sea, and we
may say the title of Admiral came naturally to him, since he used it in the title-page to his
"Description of New England," published in 1616, although it was not till 1617 that the commissioners
at Plymouth agreed to bestow upon him the title of "Admiral of that country."

In 1630 he published "The True Travels, Adventures and Observations of Captain John Smith,
in Europe, Asia, Affrica and America, from 1593 to 1629. Together with a Continuation of his
General History of Virginia, Summer Isles, New England, and their proceedings since 1624 to
this present 1629: as also of the new Plantations of the great River of the Amazons, the Isles
of St. Christopher, Mevis and Barbadoes in the West Indies." In the dedication to William,
Earl of Pembroke, and Robert, Earl of Lindsay, he says it was written at the request of Sir
Robert Cotton, the learned antiquarian, and he the more willingly satisfies this noble desire
because, as he says, "they have acted my fatal tragedies on the stage, and racked my relations
at their pleasure. To prevent, therefore, all future misprisions, I have compiled this true
discourse. Envy hath taxed me to have writ too much, and done too little; but that such should
know how little, I esteem them, I have writ this more for the satisfaction of my friends, and
all generous and well-disposed readers: To speak only of myself were intolerable ingratitude:
because, having had many co-partners with me, I cannot make a Monument for myself, and leave
them unburied in the fields, whose lives begot me the title of Soldier, for as they were companions
with me in my dangers, so shall they be partakers with me in this Tombe." In the same dedication
he spoke of his "Sea Grammar" caused to be printed by his worthy friend Sir Samuel Saltonstall.

This volume, like all others Smith published, is accompanied by a great number of swollen panegyrics
in verse, showing that the writers had been favored with the perusal of the volume before it
was published. Valor, piety, virtue, learning, wit, are by them ascribed to the "great Smith,"
who is easily the wonder and paragon of his age. All of them are stuffed with the affected
conceits fashionable at the time. One of the most pedantic of these was addressed to him by
Samuel Purchas when the "General Historie" was written.

The portrait of Smith which occupies a corner in the Map of Virginia has in the oval the date,
"AEta 37, A. 1616," and round the rim the inscription: "Portraictuer of Captaine John Smith,
Admirall of New England," and under it these lines engraved:

   "These are the Lines that show thy face: but those
    That show thy Grace and Glory brighter bee:
    Thy Faire Discoveries and Fowle-Overthrowes
    Of Salvages, much Civilized by thee
    Best shew thy Spirit; and to it Glory Wyn;
    So, thou art Brasse without, but Golde within,
    If so, in Brasse (too soft smiths Acts to beare)
    I fix thy Fame to make Brasse steele outweare.

"Thine as thou art Virtues

"JOHN DAVIES, Heref."

In this engraving Smith is clad in armor, with a high starched collar, and full beard and mustache
formally cut. His right hand rests on his hip, and his left grasps the handle of his sword.
The face is open and pleasing and full of decision.

This "true discourse" contains the wild romance with which this volume opens, and is pieced
out with recapitulations of his former writings and exploits, compilations from others' relations,
and general comments. We have given from it the story of his early life, because there is absolutely
no other account of that part of his career. We may assume that up to his going to Virginia
he did lead a life of reckless adventure and hardship, often in want of a decent suit of clothes
and of "regular meals." That he took some part in the wars in Hungary is probable, notwithstanding
his romancing narrative, and he may have been captured by the Turks. But his account of the
wars there, and of the political complications, we suspect are cribbed from the old chronicles,
probably from the Italian, while his vague descriptions of the lands and people in Turkey and
"Tartaria" are evidently taken from the narratives of other travelers. It seems to me that
the whole of his story of his oriental captivity lacks the note of personal experience. If
it were not for the "patent" of Sigismund (which is only produced and certified twenty years
after it is dated), the whole Transylvania legend would appear entirely apocryphal.

The "True Travels" close with a discourse upon the bad life, qualities, and conditions of pirates.
The most ancient of these was one Collis, "who most refreshed himself upon the coast of Wales,
and Clinton and Pursser, his companions, who grew famous till Queen Elizabeth of blessed memory
hanged them at Wapping. The misery of a Pirate (although many are as sufficient seamen as any)
yet in regard of his superfluity, you shall find it such, that any wise man would rather live
amongst wild beasts, than them; therefore let all unadvised persons take heed how they entertain
that quality; and I could wish merchants, gentlemen, and all setters-forth of ships not to
be sparing of a competent pay, nor true payment; for neither soldiers nor seamen can live without
means; but necessity will force them to steal, and when they are once entered into that trade
they are hardly reclaimed."

Smith complains that the play-writers had appropriated his adventures, but does not say that
his own character had been put upon the stage. In Ben Jonson's "Staple of News," played in
1625, there is a reference to Pocahontas in the dialogue that occurs between Pick-lock and
Pennyboy Canter:

Pick.--A tavern's unfit too for a princess.

P. Cant.--No, I have known a Princess and a great one, Come forth of a tavern.

Pick.--Not go in Sir, though.

A Cant.--She must go in, if she came forth. The blessed Pocahontas, as the historian calls
her, And great King's daughter of Virginia, Hath been in womb of tavern.

The last work of our author was published in 1631, the year of his death. Its full title very
well describes the contents: "Advertisements for the Unexperienced Planters of New England,
or anywhere. Or, the Pathway to Experience to erect a Plantation. With the yearly proceedings
of this country in fishing and planting since the year 1614 to the year 1630, and their present
estate. Also, how to prevent the greatest inconvenience by their proceedings in Virginia, and
other plantations by approved examples. With the countries armes, a description of the coast,
harbours, habitations, landmarks, latitude and longitude: with the map allowed by our Royall
King Charles."

Smith had become a trifle cynical in regard to the newsmongers of the day, and quaintly remarks
in his address to the reader: "Apelles by the proportion of a foot could make the whole proportion
of a man: were he now living, he might go to school, for now thousands can by opinion proportion
kingdoms, cities and lordships that never durst adventure to see them. Malignancy I expect
from these, have lived 10 or 12 years in those actions, and return as wise as they went, claiming
time and experience for their tutor that can neither shift Sun nor moon, nor say their compass,
yet will tell you of more than all the world betwixt the Exchange, Paul's and Westminster....
and tell as well what all England is by seeing but Mitford Haven as what Apelles was by the
picture of his great toe."

This is one of Smith's most characteristic productions. Its material is ill-arranged, and much
of it is obscurely written; it runs backward and forward along his life, refers constantly
to his former works and repeats them, complains of the want of appreciation of his services,
and makes himself the centre of all the colonizing exploits of the age. Yet it is interspersed
with strokes of humor and observations full of good sense.

It opens with the airy remark: "The wars in Europe, Asia and Africa, taught me how to subdue
the wild savages in Virginia and New England." He never did subdue the wild savages in New
England, and he never was in any war in Africa, nor in Asia, unless we call his piratical cruising
in the Mediterranean "wars in Asia."

As a Church of England man, Smith is not well pleased with the occupation of New England by
the Puritans, Brownists, and such "factious humorists" as settled at New Plymouth, although
he acknowledges the wonderful patience with which, in their ignorance and willfulness, they
have endured losses and extremities; but he hopes better things of the gentlemen who went in
1629 to supply Endicott at Salem, and were followed the next year by Winthrop. All these adventurers
have, he says, made use of his "aged endeavors." It seems presumptuous in them to try to get
on with his maps and descriptions and without him. They probably had never heard, except in
the title-pages of his works, that he was "Admiral of New England."

Even as late as this time many supposed New England to be an island, but Smith again asserts,
what he had always maintained--that it was a part of the continent. The expedition of Winthrop
was scattered by a storm, and reached Salem with the loss of threescore dead and many sick,
to find as many of the colony dead, and all disconsolate. Of the discouraged among them who
returned to England Smith says: "Some could not endure the name of a bishop, others not the
sight of a cross or surplice, others by no means the book of common prayer. This absolute crew,
only of the Elect, holding all (but such as themselves) reprobates and castaways, now made
more haste to return to Babel, as they termed England, than stay to enjoy the land they called
Canaan." Somewhat they must say to excuse themselves. Therefore, "some say they could see no
timbers of ten foot diameter, some the country is all wood; others they drained all the springs
and ponds dry, yet like to famish for want of fresh water; some of the danger of the ratell-snake."
To compel all the Indians to furnish them corn without using them cruelly they say is impossible.
Yet this "impossible," Smith says, he accomplished in Virginia, and offers to undertake in
New England, with one hundred and fifty men, to get corn, fortify the country, and "discover
them more land than they all yet know."

This homily ends--and it is the last published sentence of the "great Smith"--with this good
advice to the New England colonists:

"Lastly, remember as faction, pride, and security produces nothing but confusion, misery and
dissolution; so the contraries well practised will in short time make you happy, and the most
admired people of all our plantations for your time in the world.

"John Smith writ this with his owne hand."

The extent to which Smith retouched his narrations, as they grew in his imagination, in his
many reproductions of them, has been referred to, and illustrated by previous quotations. An
amusing instance of his care and ingenuity is furnished by the interpolation of Pocahontas
into his stories after 1623. In his "General Historie" of 1624 he adopts, for the account of
his career in Virginia, the narratives in the Oxford tract of 1612, which he had supervised.
We have seen how he interpolated the wonderful story of his rescue by the Indian child. Some
of his other insertions of her name, to bring all the narrative up to that level, are curious.
The following passages from the "Oxford Tract" contain in italics the words inserted when they
were transferred to the "General Historie":

"So revived their dead spirits (especially the love of Pocahuntas) as all anxious fears were
abandoned."

"Part always they brought him as presents from their king, or Pocahuntas."

In the account of the "masques" of girls to entertain Smith at Werowocomoco we read:

"But presently Pocahuntas came, wishing him to kill her if any hurt were intended, and the
beholders, which were women and children, satisfied the Captain there was no such matter."

In the account of Wyffin's bringing the news of Scrivener's drowning, when Wyffin was lodged
a night with Powhatan, we read:

"He did assure himself some mischief was intended. Pocahontas hid him for a time, and sent
them who pursued him the clean contrary way to seek him; but by her means and extraordinary
bribes and much trouble in three days' travel, at length he found us in the middest of these
turmoyles."

The affecting story of the visit and warning from Pocahontas in the night, when she appeared
with "tears running down her cheeks," is not in the first narration in the Oxford Tract, but
is inserted in the narrative in the "General Historie." Indeed, the first account would by
its terms exclude the later one. It is all contained in these few lines:

"But our barge being left by the ebb, caused us to staie till the midnight tide carried us
safe aboord, having spent that half night with such mirth as though we never had suspected
or intended anything, we left the Dutchmen to build, Brinton to kill foule for Powhatan (as
by his messengers he importunately desired), and left directions with our men to give Powhatan
all the content they could, that we might enjoy his company on our return from Pamaunke."

It should be added, however, that there is an allusion to some warning by Pocahontas in the
last chapter of the "Oxford Tract." But the full story of the night visit and the streaming
tears as we have given it seems without doubt to have been elaborated from very slight materials.
And the subsequent insertion of the name of Pocahontas--of which we have given examples above--into
old accounts that had no allusion to her, adds new and strong presumptions to the belief that
Smith invented what is known as the Pocahontas legend.

As a mere literary criticism on Smith's writings, it would appear that he had a habit of transferring
to his own career notable incidents and adventures of which he had read, and this is somewhat
damaging to an estimate of his originality. His wonderful system of telegraphy by means of
torches, which he says he put in practice at the siege of Olympack, and which he describes
as if it were his own invention, he had doubtless read in Polybius, and it seemed a good thing
to introduce into his narrative.

He was (it must also be noted) the second white man whose life was saved by an Indian princess
in America, who subsequently warned her favorite of a plot to kill him. In 1528 Pamphilo de
Narvaes landed at Tampa Bay, Florida, and made a disastrous expedition into the interior. Among
the Spaniards who were missing as a result of this excursion was a soldier named Juan Ortiz.
When De Soto marched into the same country in 1539 he encountered this soldier, who had been
held in captivity by the Indians and had learned their language. The story that Ortiz told
was this: He was taken prisoner by the chief Ucita, bound hand and foot, and stretched upon
a scaffold to be roasted, when, just as the flames were seizing him, a daughter of the chief
interposed in his behalf, and upon her prayers Ucita spared the life of the prisoner. Three
years afterward, when there was danger that Ortiz would be sacrificed to appease the devil,
the princess came to him, warned him of his danger, and led him secretly and alone in the night
to the camp of a chieftain who protected him.

This narrative was in print before Smith wrote, and as he was fond of such adventures he may
have read it. The incidents are curiously parallel. And all the comment needed upon it is that
Smith seems to have been peculiarly subject to such coincidences.

Our author's selection of a coat of arms, the distinguishing feature of which was "three Turks'
heads," showed little more originality. It was a common device before his day: on many coats
of arms of the Middle Ages and later appear "three Saracens' heads," or "three Moors' heads"--probably
most of them had their origin in the Crusades. Smith's patent to use this charge, which he
produced from Sigismund, was dated 1603, but the certificate appended to it by the Garter King
at Arms, certifying that it was recorded in the register and office of the heralds, is dated
1625. Whether Smith used it before this latter date we are not told. We do not know why he
had not as good right to assume it as anybody.

[Burke's "Encyclopedia of Heraldry" gives it as granted to Capt. John Smith, of the Smiths
of Cruffley, Co. Lancaster, in 1629, and describes it: "Vert, a chev. gu. betw. three Turks'
heads couped ppr. turbaned or. Crest-an Ostrich or, holding in the mouth a horseshoe or."]

XVIII. DEATH AND CHARACTER

Hardship and disappointment made our hero prematurely old, but could not conquer his indomitable
spirit. The disastrous voyage of June, 1615, when he fell into the hands of the French, is
spoken of by the Council for New England in 1622 as "the ruin of that poor gentleman, Captain
Smith, who was detained prisoner by them, and forced to suffer many extremities before he got
free of his troubles;" but he did not know that he was ruined, and did not for a moment relax
his efforts to promote colonization and obtain a command, nor relinquish his superintendence
of the Western Continent.

His last days were evidently passed in a struggle for existence, which was not so bitter to
him as it might have been to another man, for he was sustained by ever-elating "great expectations."
That he was pinched for means of living, there is no doubt. In 1623 he issued a prospectus
of his "General Historie," in which he said: "These observations are all I have for the expenses
of a thousand pounds and the loss of eighteen years' time, besides all the travels, dangers,
miseries and incumbrances for my countries good, I have endured gratis:... this is composed
in less than eighty sheets, besides the three maps, which will stand me near in a hundred pounds,
which sum I cannot disburse: nor shall the stationers have the copy for nothing. I therefore,
humbly entreat your Honour, either to adventure, or give me what you please towards the impression,
and I will be both accountable and thankful."

He had come before he was fifty to regard himself as an old man, and to speak of his "aged
endeavors." Where and how he lived in his later years, and with what surroundings and under
what circumstances he died, there is no record. That he had no settled home, and was in mean
lodgings at the last, may be reasonably inferred. There is a manuscript note on the fly-leaf
of one of the original editions of "The Map of Virginia...." (Oxford, 1612), in ancient chirography,
but which from its reference to Fuller could not have been written until more than thirty years
after Smith's death. It says: "When he was old he lived in London poor but kept up his spirits
with the commemoration of his former actions and bravery. He was buried in St. Sepulcher's
Church, as Fuller tells us, who has given us a line of his Ranting Epitaph."

That seems to have been the tradition of the man, buoyantly supporting himself in the commemoration
of his own achievements. To the end his industrious and hopeful spirit sustained him, and in
the last year of his life he was toiling on another compilation, and promised his readers a
variety of actions and memorable observations which they shall "find with admiration in my
History of the Sea, if God be pleased I live to finish it."

He died on the 21 St of June, 1631, and the same day made his last will, to which he appended
his mark, as he seems to have been too feeble to write his name. In this he describes himself
as "Captain John Smith of the parish of St. Sepulcher's London Esquior." He commends his soul
"into the hands of Almighty God, my maker, hoping through the merits of Christ Jesus my Redeemer
to receive full remission of all my sins and to inherit a place in the everlasting kingdom";
his body he commits to the earth whence it came; and "of such worldly goods whereof it hath
pleased God in his mercy to make me an unworthy receiver," he bequeathes: first, to Thomas
Packer, Esq., one of his Majesty's clerks of the Privy Seal, "all my houses, lands, tenantements
and hereditaments whatsoever, situate lying and being in the parishes of Louthe and Great Carleton,
in the county of Lincoln together with my coat of armes"; and charges him to pay certain legacies
not exceeding the sum of eighty pounds, out of which he reserves to himself twenty pounds to
be disposed of as he chooses in his lifetime. The sum of twenty pounds is to be disbursed about
the funeral. To his most worthy friend, Sir Samuel Saltonstall Knight, he gives five pounds;
to Morris Treadway, five pounds; to his sister Smith, the widow of his brother, ten pounds;
to his cousin Steven Smith, and his sister, six pounds thirteen shillings and fourpence between
them; to Thomas Packer, Joane, his wife, and Eleanor, his daughter, ten pounds among them;
to "Mr. Reynolds, the lay Mr of the Goldsmiths Hall, the sum of forty shillings"; to Thomas,
the son of said Thomas Packer, "my trunk standing in my chamber at Sir Samuel Saltonstall's
house in St. Sepulcher's parish, together with my best suit of apparel of a tawny color viz.
hose, doublet jirkin and cloak," "also, my trunk bound with iron bars standing in the house
of Richard Hinde in Lambeth, together--with half the books therein"; the other half of the
books to Mr. John Tredeskin and Richard Hinde. His much honored friend, Sir Samuel Saltonstall,
and Thomas Packer, were joint executors, and the will was acknowledged in the presence "of
Willmu Keble Snr civitas, London, William Packer, Elizabeth Sewster, Marmaduke Walker, his
mark, witness."

We have no idea that Thomas Packer got rich out of the houses, lands and tenements in the county
of Lincoln. The will is that of a poor man, and reference to his trunks standing about in the
houses of his friends, and to his chamber in the house of Sir Samuel Saltonstall, may be taken
as proof that he had no independent and permanent abiding-place.

It is supposed that he was buried in St. Sepulcher's Church. The negative evidence of this
is his residence in the parish at the time of his death, and the more positive, a record in
Stow's "Survey of London," 1633, which we copy in full:

This Table is on the south side of the Quire in Saint Sepulchers, with this Inscription:

To the living Memory of his deceased Friend, Captaine John Smith, who departed this mortall
life on the 21 day of June, 1631, with his Armes, and this Motto,

Accordamus, vincere est vivere.

Here lies one conquer'd that hath conquer'd Kings, Subdu'd large Territories, and done things
Which to the World impossible would seeme, But that the truth is held in more esteeme, Shall
I report His former service done In honour of his God and Christendome: How that he did divide
from Pagans three, Their heads and Lives, types of his chivalry: For which great service in
that Climate done, Brave Sigismundus (King of Hungarion) Did give him as a Coat of Armes to
weare, Those conquer'd heads got by his Sword and Speare? Or shall I tell of his adventures
since, Done in Firginia, that large Continence: I-low that he subdu'd Kings unto his yoke,
And made those heathen flie, as wind doth smoke: And made their Land, being of so large a Station,
A habitation for our Christian Nation: Where God is glorifi'd, their wants suppli'd, Which
else for necessaries might have di'd? But what avails his Conquest now he lyes Inter'd in earth
a prey for Wormes & Flies?

O may his soule in sweet Mizium sleepe, Untill the Keeper that all soules doth keepe, Returne
to judgement and that after thence, With Angels he may have his recompence. Captaine John Smith,
sometime Governour of Firginia, and Admirall of New England.

This remarkable epitaph is such an autobiographical record as Smith might have written himself.
That it was engraved upon a tablet and set up in this church rests entirely upon the authority
of Stow. The present pilgrim to the old church will find no memorial that Smith was buried
there, and will encounter besides incredulity of the tradition that he ever rested there.

The old church of St. Sepulcher's, formerly at the confluence of Snow Hill and the Old Bailey,
now lifts its head far above the pompous viaduct which spans the valley along which the Fleet
Ditch once flowed. All the registers of burial in the church were destroyed by the great fire
of 1666, which burnt down the edifice from floor to roof, leaving only the walls and tower
standing. Mr. Charles Deane, whose lively interest in Smith led him recently to pay a visit
to St. Sepulcher's, speaks of it as the church "under the pavement of which the remains of
our hero were buried; but he was not able to see the stone placed over those remains, as the
floor of the church at that time was covered with a carpet.... The epitaph to his memory, however,
it is understood, cannot now be deciphered upon the tablet,"--which he supposes to be the one
in Stow.

The existing tablet is a slab of bluish-black marble, which formerly was in the chancel. That
it in no way relates to Captain Smith a near examination of it shows. This slab has an escutcheon
which indicates three heads, which a lively imagination may conceive to be those of Moors,
on a line in the upper left corner on the husband's side of a shield, which is divided by a
perpendicular line. As Smith had no wife, this could not have been his cognizance. Nor are
these his arms, which were three Turks' heads borne over and beneath a chevron. The cognizance
of "Moors' heads," as we have said, was not singular in the Middle Ages, and there existed
recently in this very church another tomb which bore a Moor's head as a family badge. The inscription
itself is in a style of lettering unlike that used in the time of James I., and the letters
are believed not to belong to an earlier period than that of the Georges. This bluish-black
stone has been recently gazed at by many pilgrims from this side of the ocean, with something
of the feeling with which the Moslems regard the Kaaba at Mecca. This veneration is misplaced,
for upon the stone are distinctly visible these words:

     "Departed this life September....
    ....sixty-six....years....
      ....months...."

As John Smith died in June, 1631, in his fifty-second year, this stone is clearly not in his
honor: and if his dust rests in this church, the fire of 1666 made it probably a labor of wasted
love to look hereabouts for any monument of him.

A few years ago some American antiquarians desired to place some monument to the "Admiral of
New England" in this church, and a memorial window, commemorating the "Baptism of Pocahontas,"
was suggested. We have been told, however, that a custom of St. Sepulcher's requires a handsome
bonus to the rector for any memorial set up in the church which the kindly incumbent had no
power to set aside (in his own case) for a foreign gift and act of international courtesy of
this sort; and the project was abandoned.

Nearly every trace of this insatiable explorer of the earth has disappeared from it except
in his own writings. The only monument to his memory existing is a shabby little marble shaft
erected on the southerly summit of Star Island, one of the Isles of Shoals. By a kind of irony
of fortune, which Smith would have grimly appreciated, the only stone to perpetuate his fame
stands upon a little heap of rocks in the sea; upon which it is only an inference that he ever
set foot, and we can almost hear him say again, looking round upon this roomy earth, so much
of which he possessed in his mind, "No lot for me but Smith's Isles, which are an array of
barren rocks, the most overgrowne with shrubs and sharpe whins you can hardly passe them: without
either grasse or wood but three or foure short shrubby old cedars."

Nearly all of Smith's biographers and the historians of Virginia have, with great respect,
woven his romances about his career into their narratives, imparting to their paraphrases of
his story such an elevation as his own opinion of himself seemed to demand. Of contemporary
estimate of him there is little to quote except the panegyrics in verse he has preserved for
us, and the inference from his own writings that he was the object of calumny and detraction.
Enemies he had in plenty, but there are no records left of their opinion of his character.
The nearest biographical notice of him in point of time is found in the "History of the Worthies
of England," by Thomas Fuller, D.D., London, 1662.

Old Fuller's schoolmaster was Master Arthur Smith, a kinsman of John, who told him that John
was born in Lincolnshire, and it is probable that Fuller received from his teacher some impression
about the adventurer.

Of his "strange performances" in Hungary, Fuller says: "The scene whereof is laid at such a
distance that they are cheaper credited than confuted."

"From the Turks in Europe he passed to the pagans in America, where towards the latter end
of the reign of Queen Elizabeth [it was in the reign of James] such his perils, preservations,
dangers, deliverances, they seem to most men above belief, to some beyond truth. Yet have we
two witnesses to attest them, the prose and the pictures, both in his own book; and it soundeth
much to the diminution of his deeds that he alone is the herald to publish and proclaim them."

"Surely such reports from strangers carry the greater reputation. However, moderate men must
allow Captain Smith to have been very instrumental in settling the plantation in Virginia,
whereof he was governor, as also Admiral of New England."

"He led his old age in London, where his having a prince's mind imprisoned in a poor man's
purse, rendered him to the contempt of such as were not ingenuous. Yet he efforted his spirits
with the remembrance and relation of what formerly he had been, and what he had done."

Of the "ranting epitaph," quoted above, Fuller says: "The orthography, poetry, history and
divinity in this epitaph are much alike."

Without taking Captain John Smith at his own estimate of himself, he was a peculiar character
even for the times in which he lived. He shared with his contemporaries the restless spirit
of roving and adventure which resulted from the invention of the mariner's compass and the
discovery of the New World; but he was neither so sordid nor so rapacious as many of them,
for his boyhood reading of romances had evidently fired him with the conceits of the past chivalric
period. This imported into his conduct something inflated and something elevated. And, besides,
with all his enormous conceit, he had a stratum of practical good sense, a shrewd wit, and
the salt of humor.

If Shakespeare had known him, as he might have done, he would have had a character ready to
his hand that would have added one of the most amusing and interesting portraits to his gallery.
He faintly suggests a moral Falstaff, if we can imagine a Falstaff without vices. As a narrator
he has the swagger of a Captain Dalghetty, but his actions are marked by honesty and sincerity.
He appears to have had none of the small vices of the gallants of his time. His chivalric attitude
toward certain ladies who appear in his adventures, must have been sufficiently amusing to
his associates. There is about his virtue a certain antique flavor which must have seemed strange
to the adventurers and court hangers-on in London. Not improbably his assumptions were offensive
to the ungodly, and his ingenuous boastings made him the object of amusement to the skeptics.
Their ridicule would naturally appear to him to arise from envy. We read between the lines
of his own eulogies of himself, that there was a widespread skepticism about his greatness
and his achievements, which he attributed to jealousy. Perhaps his obtrusive virtues made him
enemies, and his rectitude was a standing offense to his associates.

It is certain he got on well with scarcely anybody with whom he was thrown in his enterprises.
He was of common origin, and always carried with him the need of assertion in an insecure position.
He appears to us always self-conscious and ill at ease with gentlemen born. The captains of
his own station resented his assumptions of superiority, and while he did not try to win them
by an affectation of comradeship, he probably repelled those of better breeding by a swaggering
manner. No doubt his want of advancement was partly due to want of influence, which better
birth would have given him; but the plain truth is that he had a talent for making himself
disagreeable to his associates. Unfortunately he never engaged in any enterprise with any one
on earth who was so capable of conducting it as himself, and this fact he always made plain
to his comrades. Skill he had in managing savages, but with his equals among whites he lacked
tact, and knew not the secret of having his own way without seeming to have it. He was insubordinate,
impatient of any authority over him, and unwilling to submit to discipline he did not himself
impose.

Yet it must be said that he was less self-seeking than those who were with him in Virginia,
making glory his aim rather than gain always; that he had a superior conception of what a colony
should be, and how it should establish itself, and that his judgment of what was best was nearly
always vindicated by the event. He was not the founder of the Virginia colony, its final success
was not due to him, but it was owing almost entirely to his pluck and energy that it held on
and maintained an existence during the two years and a half that he was with it at Jamestown.
And to effect this mere holding on, with the vagabond crew that composed most of the colony,
and with the extravagant and unintelligent expectations of the London Company, was a feat showing
decided ability. He had the qualities fitting him to be an explorer and the leader of an expedition.
He does not appear to have had the character necessary to impress his authority on a community.
He was quarrelsome, irascible, and quick to fancy that his full value was not admitted. He
shines most upon such small expeditions as the exploration of the Chesapeake; then his energy,
self-confidence, shrewdness, inventiveness, had free play, and his pluck and perseverance are
recognized as of the true heroic substance.

Smith, as we have seen, estimated at their full insignificance such flummeries as the coronation
of Powhatan, and the foolishness of taxing the energies of the colony to explore the country
for gold and chase the phantom of the South Sea. In his discernment and in his conceptions
of what is now called "political economy" he was in advance of his age. He was an advocate
of "free trade" before the term was invented. In his advice given to the New England plantation
in his "Advertisements" he says:

"Now as his Majesty has made you custome-free for seven yeares, have a care that all your countrymen
shall come to trade with you, be not troubled with pilotage, boyage, ancorage, wharfage, custome,
or any such tricks as hath been lately used in most of our plantations, where they would be
Kings before their folly; to the discouragement of many, and a scorne to them of understanding,
for Dutch, French, Biskin, or any will as yet use freely the Coast without controule, and why
not English as well as they? Therefore use all commers with that respect, courtesie, and liberty
is fitting, which will in a short time much increase your trade and shipping to fetch it from
you, for as yet it were not good to adventure any more abroad with factors till you bee better
provided; now there is nothing more enricheth a Common-wealth than much trade, nor no meanes
better to increase than small custome, as Holland, Genua, Ligorne, as divers other places can
well tell you, and doth most beggar those places where they take most custome, as Turkie, the
Archipelegan Iles, Cicilia, the Spanish ports, but that their officers will connive to enrich
themselves, though undo the state."

It may perhaps be admitted that he knew better than the London or the Plymouth company what
ought to be done in the New World, but it is absurd to suppose that his success or his ability
forfeited him the confidence of both companies, and shut him out of employment. The simple
truth seems to be that his arrogance and conceit and importunity made him unpopular, and that
his proverbial ill luck was set off against his ability.

Although he was fully charged with the piety of his age, and kept in mind his humble dependence
on divine grace when he was plundering Venetian argosies or lying to the Indians, or fighting
anywhere simply for excitement or booty, and was always as devout as a modern Sicilian or Greek
robber; he had a humorous appreciation of the value of the religions current in his day. He
saw through the hypocrisy of the London Company, "making religion their color, when all their
aim was nothing but present profit." There was great talk about Christianizing the Indians;
but the colonists in Virginia taught them chiefly the corruptions of civilized life, and those
who were despatched to England soon became debauched by London vices. "Much they blamed us
[he writes] for not converting the Salvages, when those they sent us were little better, if
not worse, nor did they all convert any of those we sent them to England for that purpose."

Captain John Smith died unmarried, nor is there any record that he ever had wife or children.
This disposes of the claim of subsequent John Smiths to be descended from him. He was the last
of that race; the others are imitations. He was wedded to glory. That he was not insensible
to the charms of female beauty, and to the heavenly pity in their hearts, which is their chief
grace, his writings abundantly evince; but to taste the pleasures of dangerous adventure, to
learn war and to pick up his living with his sword, and to fight wherever piety showed recompense
would follow, was the passion of his youth, while his manhood was given to the arduous ambition
of enlarging the domains of England and enrolling his name among those heroes who make an ineffaceable
impression upon their age. There was no time in his life when he had leisure to marry, or when
it would have been consistent with his schemes to have tied himself to a home.

As a writer he was wholly untrained, but with all his introversions and obscurities he is the
most readable chronicler of his time, the most amusing and as untrustworthy as any. He is influenced
by his prejudices, though not so much by them as by his imagination and vanity. He had a habit
of accurate observation, as his maps show, and this trait gives to his statements and descriptions,
when his own reputation is not concerned, a value beyond that of those of most contemporary
travelers. And there is another thing to be said about his writings. They are uncommonly clean
for his day. Only here and there is coarseness encountered. In an age when nastiness was written
as well as spoken, and when most travelers felt called upon to satisfy a curiosity for prurient
observations, Smith preserved a tone quite remarkable for general purity.

Captain Smith is in some respects a very good type of the restless adventurers of his age;
but he had a little more pseudo-chivalry at one end of his life, and a little more piety at
the other, than the rest. There is a decidedly heroic element in his courage, hardihood, and
enthusiasm, softened to the modern observer's comprehension by the humorous contrast between
his achievements and his estimate of them. Between his actual deeds as he relates them, and
his noble sentiments, there is also sometimes a contrast pleasing to the worldly mind. He is
just one of those characters who would be more agreeable on the stage than in private life.
His extraordinary conceit would be entertaining if one did not see too much of him. Although
he was such a romancer that we can accept few of his unsupported statements about himself,
there was, nevertheless, a certain verity in his character which showed something more than
loyalty to his own fortune; he could be faithful to an ambition for the public good. Those
who knew him best must have found in him very likable qualities, and acknowledged the generosities
of his nature, while they were amused at his humorous spleen and his serious contemplation
of his own greatness. There is a kind of simplicity in his self-appreciation that wins one,
and it is impossible for the candid student of his career not to feel kindly towards the "sometime
Governor of Virginia and Admiral of New England."