"No matter," said Webb; "it has also brought us warmth, exquisitely pure air, and a splendid
covering for grass and grain that will be apt to last well into the spring. Anything rather
than mud and the alternate freezing and thawing that are as provoking as a capricious friend."

"Why, Webb, what a burst of sentiment!" said Burt.

"Doctor, the bluebirds seem to come like the south wind that Leonard says is blowing this morning,"
Mrs. Clifford remarked. "Where were they last night? and how have they reached us after such
a storm?"

"I imagine that those we hear this morning have been with us all winter, or they may have arrived
before the storm. I scarcely remember a winter when I have not seen some around, and their
instinct guides them where to find shelter. When the weather is very cold they are comparatively
silent, but even a January thaw will make them tuneful. They are also migrants, and have been
coming northward for a week or two past, and this accounts for the numbers this morning. Poor
little things! they must have had a hard time of it last night, wherever they were."

"Oh, I do wish I could make them know how glad I'd be to take them in and keep them warm every
cold night!" shy Johnnie whispered to Maggie.

"They have a better mother than even you could be," said the doctor, nodding at the little girl.

"Have all the bluebirds a mother?" she asked, with wondering eyes.

"Indeed they have, and all the other birds also, and this mother takes care of them the year
round--Mother Nature, that's her name. Your heart may be big enough, but your house would not
begin to hold all the bluebirds, so Mother Nature tells the greater part of them to go where
it's warm about the 1st of December, and she finds them winter homes all the way from Virginia
to Florida. Then toward spring she whispers when it is safe to come back, and if you want to
see how she can take care of those that are here even during such a storm as that of last night,
bundle up and come out on the sunny back piazza."

There all the household soon after assembled, the men armed with shovels to aid in the path-making
in which Abram was already engaged. Burt was placed in a rocking-chair by a window that he
might enjoy the prospect also. A charming winter outlook it was, brilliant with light and gemmed
with innumerable crystals. To Amy's delight, she heard for the first time the soft, down-like
notes of the bluebird. At first they seemed like mere "wandering voices in the air," sweet,
plaintive, and delicate as the wind-swayed anemone. Then came a soft rustle of wings, and a
bird darted downward, probably from the eaves, but seemingly it was a bit of the sky that had
taken form and substance. He flew past her and dislodged a miniature avalanche from the spray
on which he alighted. The little creature sat still a moment, then lifted and stretched one
wing by an odd coquettish movement while it uttered its low musical warble.

"Why," exclaimed Amy, "he is almost the counterpart of our robin-redbreast of England!"

"Yes," replied Dr. Marvin, "he resembles your English redbreast closely both in appearance
and habits, and our New England forefathers called him the 'blue robin.' To my taste the bluebird
is the superior of the two, for what he lacks in stronger and more varied song he makes up
in softer, sweeter notes. And then he is so beautiful! You have no blue birds of any kind in
England, Amy. It seems to require our deeper-tinted skies to produce them. Ah, there comes
his mate. You can tell her by the lighter blue of her plumage, and the tinge of brown on her
head and back. She is a cold, coy beauty, even as a wife; but how gallant is her azure-coated
beau! Flirt away, my little chap, and make the most of your courting and honeymoon. You will
soon have family cares enough to discourage anybody but a bluebird;" and the doctor looked
at his favorites with an exulting affection that caused a general laugh.

"I shall give our little friends something better than compliments," said Mr. Clifford, obeying
his hospitable instincts, and he waded through the snow to the sunny side of an evergreen,
and there cleared a space until the ground was bare. Then he scattered over this little plot
an abundance of bread-crumbs and hay seed, and they all soon had the pleasure of seeing half
a dozen little bobbing heads at breakfast. Johnnie and Alf, who on account of the deep snow
did not go to school, were unwearied in watching the lovely little pensioners on their grandfather's
bounty--not pensioners either, for, as the old man said, "They pay their way with notes that
I am always glad to accept."

The work of path-making and shovelling snow from the doors and roofs of the out-buildings went
on vigorously all the morning. Abram also attached the farm horses to the heavy snow-plow,
to which he added his weight, and a broad, track-like furrow was made from the house to the
road, and then for a mile or more each way upon the street, for the benefit of the neighbors.
Before the day was very far advanced, the south wind, which had been a scarcely perceptible
breath, freshened, and between the busy shovels and the swaying branches the air was full of
glittering crystals. The bride-like world was throwing off her ornaments and preparing for
the prose of every-day life; and yet she did so in a cheerful, lightsome mood. The sunny eaves
dropped a profusion of gems from the melting snow. There was a tinkle of water in the pipes
leading to the cistern. From the cackle in the barn-yard it appeared that the hens had resolved
on unwonted industry, and were receiving applause from the oft-crowing chanticleers. The horses,
led out to drink, were in exuberant spirits, and appeared to find a child's delight in kicking
up the snow. The cows came briskly from their stalls to the space cleared for them, and were
soon ruminating in placid content. What though the snow covered the ground deeper than at any
time during the winter, the subtile spirit of spring was recognized and welcomed not only by
man, but also by the lower creation!

After putting Burt in a fair way of recovery, Dr. Marvin, armed with a shovel to burrow his
way through the heavier drifts, drove homeward. Alf floundered off to his traps, and returned
exultant with two rabbits. Amy was soon busy sketching them previous to their transformation
into a pot-pie, Burt looking on with a deeper interest in the artist than in her art, although
he had already learned that she had not a little skill with her pencil. Indeed, Burt promised
to become quite reconciled to his part of invalid, in spite of protestations to the contrary;
and his inclination to think that Amy's companionship would be an antidote for every ill of
life was increasing rapidly, in accordance with his hasty temperament, which arrived at conclusions
long before others had begun to consider the steps leading to them.

Amy was still more a child than a woman; but a girl must be young indeed who does not recognize
an admirer, especially so transparent a one as Burt would ever be. His ardent glances and compliments
both amused and annoyed her. From his brothers she had obtained several hints of his previous
and diversified gallantries, and was not at all assured that those in the future might not
be equally varied. She did not doubt the sincerity of his homage, however; and since she had
found it so easy to love him as a brother, it did not seem impossible that she should learn
to regard him in another light, if all thought it best, and he "would only be sensible and
understand that she did not wish to think about such things for years to come." Thus it may
be seen that in one respect her heart was not much more advanced than that of little Johnnie.
She expected to be married some time or other, and supposed it might as well be to Burt as
to another, if their friends so desired it; but she was for putting off submission to woman's
natural lot as long as possible. Possessing much tact, she was able in a great measure to repress
the young fellow's demonstrativeness, and maintain their brotherly and sisterly relations;
but it cost her effort, and sometimes she left his society flurried and wearied. With Webb
she enjoyed perfect rest and a pleasing content. He was so quiet and strong that his very presence
seemed to soothe her jarring nerves. He appeared to understand her, to have the power to make
much that interested her more interesting, while upon her little feminine mysteries of needle
and fancy work he looked with an admiring helplessness, as if she were more unapproachable
in her sphere than he could ever be in his, with all his scientific facts and theories. Women
like this tribute to their womanly ways from the sterner sex. Maggie's wifehood was made happy
by it, for by a hundred little things she knew that the great, stalwart Leonard would be lost
without her. Moreover, by his rescue of Burt, Webb had won a higher place in Amy's esteem.
He had shown the prompt energy and courage which satisfy woman's ideal of manhood, and assure
her of protection. Amy did not analyze her feelings or consciously assure herself of all this.
She only felt that Webb was restful, and would give her a sense of safety, no matter what happened.

CHAPTER XV

NATURE'S BUILDING MATERIALS

Some days after Burt's adventure, Dr. Marvin made his professional call in the evening. Mr.
Alvord, Squire Bartley, and the minister also happened in, and all were soon chatting around
Mr. Clifford's ruddy hearth. The pastor of this country parish was a sensible man, who, if
he did not electrify his flock of a Sunday morning, honestly tried to guide it along safe paths,
and led those whom he asked to follow. His power lay chiefly in the homes of his people, where
his genial presence was ever welcomed. He did not regard those to whom he ministered as so
many souls and subjects of theological dogma, but as flesh-and-blood men, women, and children,
with complex interests and relations; and the heartiness of his laugh over a joke, often his
own, and the havoc that he made in the dishes of nuts and apples, proved that he had plenty
of good healthful blood himself. Although his hair was touched with frost, and he had never
received any degree except his simple A.M., although the prospect of a metropolitan pulpit
had grown remote indeed, he seemed the picture of content as he pared his apple and joined
in the neighborly talk.

Squire Bartley had a growing sense of shortcoming in his farming operations. Notwithstanding
his many acres, he felt himself growing "land-poor," as country people phrase it. He was not
a reader, and looked with undisguised suspicion on book-farming. As for the agricultural journals,
he said "they were full of new-fangled notions, and were kept up by people who liked to see
their names in print." Nevertheless, he was compelled to admit that the Cliffords, who kept
abreast of the age, obtained better crops, and made their business pay far better than he did,
and he was inclined to turn his neighborly calls into thrifty use by questioning Leonard and
Webb concerning their methods and management. Therefore he remarked to Leonard: "Do you find
that you can keep your land in good condition by rotation of crops? Folks say this will do
it, but I find some of our upland is getting mighty thin, and crops uncertain."

"What is your idea of rotation, squire?"

"Why, not growin' the same crop too often on the same ground."

"That is scarcely my idea. For the majority of soils the following rotation has been found
most beneficial: corn and potatoes, which thoroughly subdue the sod the first year; root crops,
as far as we grow them, and oats the second; then wheat or rye, seeded at the same time with
clover or grass of some kind. We always try to plow our sod land in the fall, for in the intervening
time before planting the sod partially decays, the land is sweetened and pulverized by the
action of frost, and a good many injurious insects are killed also. But all rules need modification,
and we try to study the nature of our various soils, and treat them accordingly".

"What! have a chemist prescribe for 'em like a doctor?" sneered the squire. "Mr. Walters, the
rich city chap who bought Roger's worn-out farm, tried that to his heart's content, and mine
too. He had a little of the dirt of each part of his farm analyzed, you know, and then he sent
to New York for his phosphates, his potashes, his muriates, and his compound-super-universal
panacea vegetates, and with all these bad-smelling mixtures--his barn was like a big agricultural
drug-store--he was going to put into his skinned land just the elements lacking. In short,
he gave his soil a big dose of powders, and we all know the result. If he had given his farm
a pinch of snuff better crops ought to have been sneezed. No chemicals and land doctors for
me, thank you. Beg pardon, Marvin! no reflections on your calling, but doctorin' land don't
seem profitable for those who pay for the medicine."

They all laughed except Webb, who seemed nettled, but who quietly said, "Squire, will you please
tell us what your house is made of?"

"Good lumber, sir."

"Well, when passing one day, I saw a fine stalk of corn in one of your fields. Will you also
tell us what that was made of? It must have weighed, with the ears upon it, several pounds,
and it was all of six feet high. How did it come into existence?"

"Why, it grew," said the squire, sententiously.

"That utterance was worthy of Solomon," remarked Dr. Marvin, laughing.

"It grew," continued Webb, "because it found the needed material at hand. I do not see how
Nature can build a well-eared stalk of corn without proper material any more than you could
have built your house without lumber. Suppose we have a soil in which the elements that make
a crop of corn do not exist, or are present in a very deficient degree, what course is left
for us but to supply what is lacking? Because Mr. Walters did not do this in the right way,
is no reason why we should do nothing. If soil does not contain the ingredients of a crop,
we must put them there, or our labor goes for nothing".

"Well, of course there's no gettin' around that; but yard manure is all I want. It's like a
square meal to a man, and not a bit of powder on his tongue."

"No one wants anything better than barn-yard manure for most purposes, for it contains nearly
all the elements needed by growing plants, and its mechanical action is most beneficial to
the soil. But how many acres will you be able to cover with this fertilizer this spring?"

"That's just the rub," the squire answered. "We use all we have, and when I can pick it up
cheap I buy some; but one can't cover a whole farm with it, and so in spite of you some fields
get all run out."

"I don't think there's any need of their running out," said Leonard, emphatically. "I agree
with Webb in one thing, if I can't follow him in all of his scientific theories--we have both
decided never to let a field grow poor, any more than we would permit a horse or cow to so
lose in flesh as to be nearly useless; therefore we not only buy fertilizers liberally, but
use all the skill and care within our power to increase them. Barn-yard manure can be doubled
in bulk and almost doubled in value by composting with the right materials. We make the most
of our peat swamps, fallen leaves, and rubbish in general. Enough goes to waste on many farms
every year to keep several acres in good heart. But, as you say, we cannot begin to procure
enough to go over all the land from which we are taking crops of some kind; therefore we maintain
a rotation which is adapted to our various soils, and every now and then plow under a heavy
green crop of clover, buckwheat, or rye. A green crop plowed under is my great stand-by."

"I plowed under a crop of buckwheat once," said the squire, discontentedly, "and I didn't see
much good from it, except that the ground was light and mellow afterward."

"That, at least, was a gain," Leonard continued; "but I can tell you why your ground was not
much benefited, and perhaps injured. You scarcely plowed under a green crop, for I remember
that the grain in your buckwheat straw was partly ripe. It is the forming seed or grain that
takes the substance out of land. You should have plowed the buckwheat under just as it was
coming into blossom. Up to that time the chief growth had been derived from the air, and there
had been very little drain upon the soil."

"Well!" exclaimed the squire, incredulously, "I didn't know the air was so nourishing."

Webb had been showing increasing signs of disquietude during the last few moments, and now
said, with some emphasis: "It seems to me, squire, that there is not much hope of our farming
successfully unless we do know something of the materials that make our crops, and the conditions
under which they grow. When you built your house you did not employ a man who had only a vague
idea of how it was to be constructed, and what it was to be built of. Before your house was
finished you had used lumber as your chief material, but you also employed brick, stone, lime,
sand, nails, etc. If we examine a house, we find all these materials. If we wish to build another
house, we know we must use them in their proper proportions. Now it is just as much a matter
of fact, and is just as capable of proof, that a plant of any kind is built up on a regular
plan, and from well-defined materials, as that a house is so built. The materials in various
houses differ just as the elements in different kinds of plants vary. A man can decide what
he will build of; Nature has decided forever what she will build of. She will construct a stalk
of corn or wheat with its grain out of essentially the same materials to the end of time. Now
suppose one or more of these necessary ingredients is limited in the soil, or has been taken
from it by a succession of crops, what rational hope can we have for a good crop unless we
place the absent material in the ground, and also put it there in a form suitable for the use
of the plant?"

"What you say sounds plausible enough," answered the squire, scratching his head with the worried,
perplexed air of a man convinced against his will. "How was it, then, that Walters made such
a mess of it? He had his soil analyzed by a land doctor, and boasted that he was going to put
into it just what was lacking. His soil may not be lacking now, but his crops are."

"It is possible that there are quacks among land doctors, as you call them, as well as among
doctors of medicine", remarked Dr. Marvin.

"Or doctors of theology," added the minister.

"I looked into the Walters experiment somewhat carefully," Webb resumed, "and the causes of
his failure were apparent to any one who has given a little study to the nature of soils and
plant food. Some of his land needs draining. The ground is sour and cold from stagnant water
beneath the surface, and the plant food which Nature originally placed in it is inert and in
no condition to be used. Nearly all of his uplands have been depleted of organic or vegetable
matter. He did not put into the soil all that the plants needed, and the fact that his crops
were poor proves it. The materials he used may have been adulterated, or not in a form which
the plants could, assimilate at the time. Give Nature a soil in the right mechanical condition--that
is, light, mellow, moist, but not wet, and containing the essential elements of a crop--and
she will produce it unless the season is so adverse that it cannot grow. I do not see how one
can hope to be successful unless he studies Nature's methods and learns her needs, adapting
his labor to the former, and supplying the latter. For instance, nitrogen in the form of ammonia
is so essential to our crops that without it they could never come to maturity were all the
other elements of plant food present in excess. Suppose that for several successive years we
grow wheat upon a field with an average crop of twenty-five bushels to the acre. This amount
of grain with its straw will take from the soil about fifty-one pounds of ammonia annually,
and when the nitrogen (which is the main element of ammonia) gives out, the wheat will fail,
although other plant food may be present in abundance. This is one reason why dairy farms from
which all the milk is sold often grow poor. Milk is exceedingly rich in nitrogen, and through
the milk the farm is depleted of this essential element faster than it is replaced by fertilizers.
A man may thus be virtually selling his farm, or that which gives it value, without knowing it."

"But what's a man to do?" asked the squire, with a look of helpless perplexity. "How is one
to know when his land needs nitrogen or ammonia and all the other kinds of plant food, as you
call it, and how must he go to work to get and apply it?"

"You are asking large questions, squire," Webb replied, with a quiet smile. "In the course
of a year you decide a number of legal questions, and I suppose read books, consult authorities,
and use considerable judgment. It certainly never would do for people to settle these questions
at hap-hazard or according to their own individual notions. Their decisions might be reversed.
Whatever the courts may do, Nature is certain to reverse our decisions and bring to naught
our action unless we comply with her laws and requirements."

The squire's experience coincided so truly with Webb's words that he urged no further objections
against accurate agricultural knowledge, even though the information must be obtained in part
at least from books and journals.

CHAPTER XVI

GOSSIP ABOUT BIRD-NEIGHBORS

"Doctor," said Mrs. Leonard, "Amy and I have been indulging in some surmises over a remark
you made the other day about the bluebirds. You said the female was a cold, coy beauty, and
that her mate would soon be overburdened with family cares. Indeed, I think you rather reflected
on our sex as represented by Mrs. Bluebird."

"I fear I cannot retract. The female bluebird is singularly devoid of sentiment, and takes
life in the most serious and matter-of-fact way. Her nest and her young are all in all to her.
John Burroughs, who is a very close observer, says she shows no affection for the male and
no pleasure in his society, and if he is killed she goes in quest of another mate in the most
business-like manner, as one would go to a shop on an errand."

"The heartless little jade!" cried Maggie, with a glance at Leonard which plainly said that
such was not her style at all.

"Nevertheless," continued the doctor, "she awakens a love in her husband which is blind to
every defect. He is gallantry itself, and at the same time the happiest and most hilarious
of lovers. Since she insists on building her nest herself, and having everything to her own
mind, he does not shrug his blue shoulders and stand indifferently or sullenly aloof. He goes
with her everywhere, flying a little in advance as if for protection, inspects her work with
flattering minuteness, applauds and compliments continually. Indeed, he is the ideal French
beau very much in love."

"In other words, the counterpart of Leonard," said Burt, at which they all laughed.

