We see, then, that every citizen depends not on himself, but on the commonwealth, all whose
commands he is bound to execute, and has no right to decide, what is equitable or iniquitous,
just or unjust. But, on the contrary, as the body of the dominion should, so to speak, be guided
by one mind, and consequently the will of the commonwealth must be taken to be the will of
all; what the state decides to be just and good must be held to be so decided by every individual.
And so, however iniquitous the subject may think the commonwealth's decisions, he is none the
less bound to execute them.

But, it may be objected, is it not contrary to the dictate of reason to subject oneself wholly
to the judgment of another, and, consequently, is not the civil state repugnant to reason?
Whence it would follow that the civil state is irrational, and could only be created by men
destitute of reason, not at all by such as are led by it. But since reason teaches nothing
contrary to Nature, sound reason cannot therefore dictate that every one should remain independent,
so long as men are liable to passions, that is, reason pronounces against such independence.
Besides, reason altogether teaches to seek peace, and peace cannot be maintained, unless the
commonwealth's general laws be kept unbroken. And so, the more a man is guided by reason, that
is, the more he is free, the more constantly he will keep the laws of the commonwealth, and
execute the commands of the supreme authority, whose subject he is. Furthermore, the civil
state is naturally ordained to remove general fear, and prevent general sufferings, and therefore
pursue above everything the very end, after which every one, who is led by reason, strives,
but in the natural state strives vainly. Wherefore, if a man, who is led by reason, has sometimes
to do by the commonwealth's order what he knows to be repugnant to reason, that harm is far
compensated by the good, which he derives from the existence of a civil state. For it is reason's
own law, to choose the less of two evils; and accordingly we may conclude that no one is acting
against the dictate of his own reason, so far as he does what by the law of the commonwealth
is to be done. And this any one will more easily grant us, after we have explained how far
the power and consequently the right of the commonwealth extends.

For, first of all, it must be considered that, as in the state of Nature the man who is led
by reason is most powerful and most independent, so too that commonwealth will be most powerful
and most independent which is founded and guided by reason. For the right of the commonwealth
is determined by the power of the multitude, which is led, as it were, by one mind. But this
unity of mind can in no wise be conceived, unless the commonwealth pursues chiefly the very
end which sound reason teaches is to the interest of all men.

In the second place it comes to be considered that subjects are so far dependent, not on themselves
but on the commonwealth, as they fear its power or threats, or as they love the civil state.
Whence it follows, that such things, as no one can be induced to do by rewards or threats,
do not fall within the rights of the commonwealth. For instance, by reason of his faculty of
judgment, it is in no man's power to believe. For by what rewards or threats can a man be brought
to believe that the whole is not greater than its part, or that God does not exist, or that
that is an infinite being, which he sees to be finite, or, generally, anything contrary to
his sense or thought? So, too, by what rewards or threats can a man be brought to love one
whom he hates, or to hate one whom he loves? And to this head must likewise be referred such
things as are so abhorrent to human nature, that it regards them as actually worse than any
evil, as that a man should be witness against himself, or torture himself, or kill his parents,
or not strive to avoid death, and the like, to which no one can be induced by rewards or threats.
But if we still choose to say that the commonwealth has the right or authority to order such
things, we can conceive of it in no other sense than that in which one might say that a man
has the right to be mad or delirious. For what but a delirious fancy would such a right be,
as could bind no one? And here I am speaking expressly of such things as cannot be subject
to the right of a commonwealth and are abhorrent to human nature in general. For the fact that
a fool or madman can by no rewards or threats be induced to execute orders, or that this or
that person, because he is attached to this or that religion, judges the laws of a dominion
worse than any possible evil, in no wise makes void the laws of the commonwealth, since by
them most of the citizens are restrained. And so, as those who are without fear or hope are
so far independent, they are, therefore, enemies of the dominion, and may lawfully be coerced
by force.

Thirdly, and lastly, it comes to be considered that those things are not so much within the
commonwealth's right, which cause indignation in the majority. For it is certain, that by the
guidance of Nature men conspire together, either through common fear, or with the desire to
avenge some common hurt; and as the right of the commonwealth is determined by the common power
of the multitude, it is certain that the power and right of the commonwealth are so far diminished,
as it gives occasion for many to conspire together. There are certainly some subjects of fear
for a commonwealth, and as every separate citizen or in the state of Nature every man, so a
commonwealth is the less independent, the greater reason it has to fear. So much for the right
of supreme authorities over subjects. Now before I treat of the right of the said authorities
as against others, we had better resolve a question commonly mooted about religion.

For it may be objected to us, Do not the civil state, and the obedience of subjects, such as
we have shown is required in the civil state, do away with religion, whereby we are bound to
worship God? But if we consider the matter, as it really is, we shall find nothing that can
suggest a scruple. For the mind, so far as it makes use of reason, is dependent, not on the
supreme authorities, but on itself. And so the true knowledge and the love of God cannot be
subject to the dominion of any, nor yet can charity towards one's neighbor. And if we further
reflect that the highest exercise of charity is that which aims at keeping peace and joining
in unity, we shall not doubt that he does his duty, who helps every one, so far as the commonwealth's
laws, that is, so far as unity and quiet allow. As for external rites, it is certain, that
they can do no good or harm at all in respect of the true knowledge of God, and the love which
necessarily results from it; and so they ought not to be held of such importance, that it should
be thought worth while on their account to disturb public peace and quiet. Moreover, it is
certain that I am not a champion of religion by the law of Nature, that is, by the divine decree.
For I have no authority, as once the disciples of Christ had, to cast out unclean spirits and
work miracles; which authority is yet so necessary to the propagating of religion in places
where it is forbidden, that without it one not only, as they say, wastes one's time[37] and
trouble, but causes besides very many inconveniences, whereof all ages have seen most mournful
examples. Every one therefore, wherever he may be, can worship God with true religion, and
mind his own business, which is the duty of a private man. But the care of propagating religion
should be left to God, or the supreme authorities, upon whom alone falls the charge of affairs
of state. But I return to my subject.

After explaining the right of supreme authorities over citizens and the duty of subjects, it
remains to consider the right of such authorities against the world at large, which is now
easily intelligible from what has been said. For since the right of the supreme authorities
is nothing else but simple natural right, it follows that two dominions stand towards each
other in the same relation as do two men in the state of Nature, with this exception, that
a commonwealth can provide against being oppressed by another; which a man in the state of
Nature cannot do, seeing that he is overcome daily by sleep, often by disease or mental infirmity,
and in the end by old age, and is besides liable to other inconveniences, from which a commonwealth
can secure itself.

A commonwealth, then, is so far independent, as it can plan and provide against oppression
by another, and so far dependent on another commonwealth, as it fears that other's power, or
is hindered by it from executing its own wishes, or, lastly, as it needs its help for its own
preservation or increase. For we cannot at all doubt, that if two commonwealths are willing
to offer each other mutual help, both together are more powerful, and therefore have more right,
than either alone.

But this will be more clearly intelligible if we reflect that two commonwealths are naturally
enemies. For men in the state of Nature are enemies. Those, then, who stand outside a commonwealth,
and retain their natural rights, continue enemies. Accordingly, if one commonwealth wishes
to make war on another and employ extreme measures to make that other dependent on itself,
it may lawfully make the attempt, since it needs but the bare will of the commonwealth for
war to be waged. But concerning peace it can decide nothing, save with the concurrence of another
commonwealth's will. When it follows that laws of war regard every commonwealth by itself,
but laws of peace regard not one, but at the least two commonwealths, which are therefore called
"contracting parties."

This "contract" remains so long unmoved as the motive for entering into it, that is, fear of
hurt or hope of gain, subsists. But take away from either commonwealth this hope or fear, and
it is left independent, and the link, whereby the commonwealths were mutually bound, breaks
of itself. And therefore every commonwealth has the right to break its contract, whenever it
chooses, and cannot be said to act treacherously or perfidiously in breaking its word, as soon
as the motive of hope or fear is removed. For every contracting party was on equal terms in
this respect, that whichever could first free itself of fear should be independent, and make
use of its independence after its own mind; and, besides, no one makes a contract respecting
the future, but on the hypothesis of certain precedent circumstances. But when these circumstances
change, the reason of policy applicable to the whole position changes with them; and therefore
every one of the contracting commonwealths retains the right of consulting its own interest,
and consequently endeavors, as far as possible, to be free from fear and thereby independent,
and to prevent another from coming out of the contract with greater power. If then a commonwealth
complains that it has been deceived, it cannot properly blame the bad faith of another contracting
commonwealth, but only its own folly in having entrusted its own welfare to another party,
that was independent, and had for its highest law the welfare of its own dominion.

To commonwealths, which have contracted a treaty of peace, it belongs to decide the questions
which may be mooted about the terms or rules of peace, whereby they have mutually bound themselves,
inasmuch as laws of peace regard not one commonwealth, but the commonwealths which contract
taken together. But if they cannot agree together about the conditions, they by that very fact
return to a state of war.

The more commonwealths there are, that have contracted a joint treaty of peace, the less each
of them by itself is an object of fear to the remainder, or the less it has the authority to
make war. But it is so much the more bound to observe the conditions of peace; that is, the
less independent, and the more bound to accommodate itself to the general will of the contracting
parties.

But the good faith, inculcated by sound reason and religion, is not hereby made void; for neither
reason nor Scripture teaches one to keep one's word in every case. For if I have promised a
man, for instance, to keep safe a sum of money he has secretly deposited with me, I am not
bound to keep my word, from the time that I know or believe the deposit to have been stolen,
but I shall act more rightly in endeavoring to restore it to its owners. So likewise, if the
supreme authority has promised another to do something, which subsequently occasion or reason
shows or seems to show is contrary to the welfare of its subjects, it is surely bound to break
its word. As then Scripture only teaches us to keep our word in general, and leaves to every
individual's judgment the special cases of exception, it teaches nothing repugnant to what
we have just proved.

But that I may not have so often to break the thread of my discourse, and to resolve hereafter
similar objections, I would have it known that all this demonstration of mine proceeds from
the necessity of human nature, considered in what light you will--I mean, from the universal
effort of all men after self-preservation, an effort inherent in all men, whether learned or
unlearned. And therefore, however one considers men are led, whether by passion or by reason,
it will be the same thing; for the demonstration, as we have said, is of universal application.

II

Of the Functions of Supreme Authorities[38]

The right of the supreme authorities is limited by their power; the most important part of
that right is, that they are, as it were, the mind of the dominion, whereby all ought to be
guided; and accordingly, such authorities alone have the right of deciding what is good, evil,
equitable or iniquitous, that is, what must be done or left undone by the subjects severally
or collectively. And, accordingly, they have the sole right of laying down laws, and of interpreting
the same, whenever their meaning is disputed, and of deciding whether a given case is in conformity
with or violation of the laws; and, lastly, of waging war, and of drawing up and offering propositions
for peace, or of accepting such when offered.

As all these functions, and also the means required to execute them, are matters which regard
the whole body of the dominion, that is, are affairs of state, it follows that affairs of state
depend on the direction of him only who holds supreme dominion. And hence it follows that it
is the right of the supreme authority alone to judge the deeds of every individual, and demand
of him an account of the same; to punish criminals, and decide questions of law between citizens,
or appoint jurists acquainted with the existing laws, to administer these matters on its behalf;
and, further, to use and order all means to war and peace, as to found and fortify cities,
levy soldiers, assign military posts, and order what it would have done, and, with a view to
peace, to send and give audience to ambassadors; and, finally, to levy the costs of all this.

Since, then, it is the right of the supreme authority alone to handle public matters, or choose
officials to do so, it follows that that subject is a pretender to the dominion, who, without
the supreme council's knowledge, enters upon any public matter, although he believe that his
design will be to the best interest of the commonwealth.

But it is often asked, whether the supreme authority is bound by laws, and, consequently, whether
it can do wrong. Now as the words "law" and "wrong-doing" often refer not merely to the laws
of a commonwealth, but also to the general rules which concern all natural things, and especially
to the general rules of reason, we cannot, without qualification, say that the commonwealth
is bound by no laws, or can do no wrong. For were the commonwealth bound by no laws or rules,
which removed, the commonwealth were no commonwealth, we should have to regard it not as a
natural thing, but as a chimera. A commonwealth then does wrong, when it does, or suffers to
be done, things which may be the cause of its own ruin; and we can say that it then does wrong,
in the sense in which philosophers or doctors say that Nature does wrong; and in this sense
we can say, that a commonwealth does wrong, when it acts against the dictate of reason. For
a commonwealth is most independent when it acts according to the dictate of reason; so far,
then, as it acts against reason, it fails itself, or does wrong. And we shall be able more
easily to understand this if we reflect that when we say, that a man can do what he will with
his own, this authority must be limited not only by the power of the agent, but by the capacity
of the object. If, for instance, I say that I can rightfully do what I will with this table,
I do not certainly mean that I have the right to make it eat grass. So, too, though we say,
that men depend not on themselves, but on the commonwealth, we do not mean, that men lose their
human nature and put on another; nor yet that the commonwealth has the right to make men wish
for this or that, or (what is just as impossible) regard with honor things which excite ridicule
or disgust. But it is implied that there are certain intervening circumstances which supposed,
one likewise supposes the reverence and fear of the subjects towards the commonwealth, and
which abstracted, one makes abstraction likewise of that fear and reverence, and therewith
of the commonwealth itself. The commonwealth, then, to maintain its independence, is bound
to preserve the causes of fear and reverence, otherwise it ceases to be a commonwealth. For
the person or persons that hold dominion can no more combine with the keeping up of majesty
the running with harlots drunk or naked about the streets, or the performances of a stage-player,
or the open violation or contempt of laws passed by themselves, than they can combine existence
with non-existence. But to proceed to slay and rob subjects, ravish maidens, and the like,
turns fear into indignation and the civil state into a state of enmity.

We see, then, in what sense we may say, that a commonwealth is bound by laws and can do wrong.
But if by "law" we understand civil law, and by "wrong" that which, by civil law, is forbidden
to be done, that is, if these words be taken in their proper sense, we cannot at all say that
a commonwealth is bound by laws or can do wrong. For the maxims and motives of fear and reverence
which a commonwealth is bound to observe in its own interest, pertain not to civil jurisprudence,
but to the law of Nature, since they cannot be vindicated by the civil law, but by the law
of war. And a commonwealth is bound by them in no other sense than that in which in the state
of Nature a man is bound to take heed that he preserve his independence and be not his own
enemy, lest he should destroy himself; and in this taking heed lies not the subjection, but
the liberty of human nature. But civil jurisprudence depends on the mere decree of the commonwealth,
which is not bound to please any but itself, nor to hold anything to be good or bad, but what
it judges to be such for itself. And, accordingly, it has not merely the right to avenge itself,
or to lay down and interpret laws, but also to abolish the same, and to pardon any guilty person
out of the fullness of its power.

Contracts or laws, whereby the multitude transfers its right to one council or man, should
without doubt be broken, when it is expedient for the general welfare to do so. But to decide
this point, whether, that is, it be expedient for the general welfare to break them or not,
is within the right of no private person, but of him only who holds dominion; therefore of
these laws he who holds dominion remains sole interpreter. Moreover, no private person can
by right vindicate these laws, and so they do not really bind him who holds dominion. Notwithstanding,
if they are of such a nature that they cannot be broken without at the same time weakening
the commonwealth's strength, that is, without at the same time changing to indignation the
common fear of most of the citizens, by this very fact the commonwealth is dissolved, and the
contract comes to an end; and therefore such contract is vindicated not by the civil law, but
by the law of war. And so he who holds dominion is not bound to observe the terms of the contract
by any other cause than that, which bids a man in the state of Nature to beware of being his
own enemy, lest he should destroy himself.

III

Of the Best State of a Dominion[39]

We have shown that man is then most independent when he is most led by reason, and, in consequence,
that that commonwealth is most powerful and most independent which is founded and guided by
reason. But, as the best plan of living, so as to assure to the utmost self-preservation, is
that which is framed according to the dictate of reason, therefore it follows that that in
every kind is best done, which a man or commonwealth does, so far as he or it is in the highest
degree independent. For it is one thing to till a field by right, and another to till it in
the best way. One thing, I say, to defend or preserve oneself, and to pass judgment by right,
and another to defend or preserve oneself in the best way, and to pass the best judgment; and,
consequently, it is one thing to have dominion and care of affairs of state by right, and another
to exercise dominion and direct affairs of state in the best way. And so, as we have treated
of the right of every commonwealth in general, it is time to treat of the best state of every
dominion.

Now the quality of the state of any dominion is easily perceived from the end of the civil
state, which end is nothing else but peace and security of life. And therefore that dominion
is the best, where men pass their lives in unity, and the laws are kept unbroken. For it is
certain, that seditions, wars, and contempt or breach of the laws are not so much to be imputed
to the wickedness of the subjects, as to the bad state of a dominion. For men are not born
fit for citizenship, but must be made so. Besides, men's natural passions are everywhere the
same; and if wickedness more prevails, and more offenses are committed in one commonwealth
than in another, it is certain that the former has not enough pursued the end of unity, nor
framed its laws with sufficient forethought; and that, therefore, it has failed in making quite
good its right as a commonwealth. For a civil state, which has not done away with the causes
of seditions, where war is a perpetual object of fear, and where, lastly, the laws are often
broken, differs but little from the mere state of Nature, in which every one lives after his
own mind at the great risk of his life.

But as the vices and inordinate license and contumacy of subjects must be imputed to the commonwealth,
so, on the other hand, their virtue and constant obedience to the laws are to be ascribed in
the main to the virtue and perfect right of the commonwealth. And so it is deservedly reckoned
to Hannibal as an extraordinary virtue, that in his army there never arose a sedition.

Of a commonwealth, whose subjects are but hindered by terror from taking arms, it should rather
be said, that it is free from war, than that it has peace. For peace is not mere absence of
war, but is a virtue that springs from force of character: for obedience is the constant will
to execute what, by the general decree of the commonwealth, ought to be done. Besides, that
commonwealth whose peace depends on the sluggishness of its subjects, that are led about like
sheep to learn but slavery, may more properly be called a desert than a commonwealth.

When, then, we call that dominion best, where men pass their lives in unity, I understand a
human life, defined not by mere circulation of the blood, and other qualities common to all
animals, but above all by reason, the true excellence and life of the mind.

But be it remarked that, by the dominion which I have said is established for this end, I intend
that which has been established by a free multitude, not that which is acquired over a multitude
by right of war. For a free multitude is guided more by hope than fear; a conquered one, more
by fear than by hope: inasmuch as the former aims at making use of life, the latter but at
escaping death. The former, I say, aims at living for its own ends, the latter is forced to
belong to the conqueror; and so we say that this is enslaved, but that free. And, therefore,
the end of a dominion, which one gets by right of war, is to be master, and have rather slaves
than subjects. And although between the dominion created by a free multitude, and that gained
by right of war, if we regard generally the right of each, we can make no essential distinction;
yet their ends, as we have already shown, and further the means to the preservation of each
are very different.

But what means a prince, whose sole motive is lust of mastery, should use to establish and
maintain his dominion, the most ingenious Machiavelli has set forth at large,[40] but with
what design one can hardly be sure. If, however, he had some good design, as one should believe
of a learned man, it seems to have been to show, with how little foresight many attempt to
remove a tyrant, though thereby the causes which make the prince a tyrant can in no wise be
removed, but, on the contrary, are so much the more established, as the prince is given more
cause to fear, which happens when the multitude has made an example of its prince, and glories
in the parricide as in a thing well done. Moreover, he perhaps wished to show how cautious
a free multitude should be of entrusting its welfare absolutely to one man, who, unless in
his vanity he thinks he can please everybody, must be in daily fear of plots, and so is forced
to look chiefly after his own interest, and, as for the multitude, rather to plot against it
than consult its good. And I am the more led to this opinion concerning that most far-seeing
man, because it is known that he was favorable to liberty, for the maintenance of which he
has besides given the most wholesome advice.

FOOTNOTES:

[36] From A Political Treatise, ch. iii, same title.

[37] Literally, "oil and trouble"--a common proverbial expression in Latin.

[38] From A Political Treatise, ch. iv, same title.

[39] From A Political Treatise, ch. v, same title.

[40] In his book called "Il Principe," or "The Prince."

CHAPTER XVIII

FREEDOM OF THOUGHT AND SPEECH[41]

If men's minds were as easily controlled as their tongues, every king would sit safely on his
throne, and government by compulsion would cease; for every subject would shape his life according
to the intentions of his rulers, and would esteem a thing true or false, good or evil, just
or unjust, in obedience to their dictates. However, ... no man's mind can possibly lie wholly
at the disposition of another, for no one can willingly transfer his natural right of free
reason and judgment, or be compelled so to do. For this reason government which attempts to
control minds is accounted tyrannical, and it is considered an abuse of sovereignty and a usurpation
of the rights of subjects to seek to prescribe what shall be accepted as true, or rejected
as false, or what opinions should actuate men in their worship of God. All these questions
fall within a man's natural right, which he cannot abdicate even with his own consent.

I admit that the judgment can be biased in many ways, and to an almost incredible degree, so
that while exempt from direct external control it may be so dependent on another man's words,
that it may fitly be said to be ruled by him; but although this influence is carried to great
lengths, it has never gone so far as to invalidate the statement that every man's understanding
is his own, and that brains are as diverse as palates.

Moses, not by fraud, but by Divine virtue, gained such a hold over the popular judgment that
he was accounted superhuman, and believed to speak and act through the inspiration of the Deity;
nevertheless, even he could not escape murmurs and evil interpretations. How much less then
can other monarchs avoid them! Yet such unlimited power, if it exists at all, must belong to
a monarch, and least of all to a democracy, where the whole or a great part of the people wield
authority collectively. This is a fact which I think every one can explain for himself.

However unlimited, therefore, the power of a sovereign may be, however implicitly it is trusted
as the exponent of law and religion, it can never prevent men from forming judgments according
to their intellect, or being influenced by any given emotion. It is true that it has the right
to treat as enemies all men whose opinions do not, on all subjects, entirely coincide with
its own; but we are not discussing its strict rights, but its proper course of action. I grant
that it has the right to rule in the most violent manner, and to put citizens to death for
very trivial causes, but no one supposes it can do this with the approval of sound judgment.
Nay, inasmuch as such things cannot be done without extreme peril to itself, we may even deny
that it has the absolute power to do them, or, consequently, the absolute right; for the rights
of the sovereign are limited by his power.

Since, therefore, no one can abdicate his freedom of judgment and feeling; since every man
is by indefeasible natural right the master of his own thoughts, it follows that men, thinking
in diverse and contradictory fashions, cannot, without disastrous results, be compelled to
speak only according to the dictates of the supreme power. Not even the most experienced, to
say nothing of the multitude, know how to keep silence. Men's common failing is to confide
their plans to others, though there be need for secrecy, so that a government would be most
harsh which deprived the individual of his freedom of saying and teaching what he thought;
and would be moderate if such freedom were granted. Still we cannot deny that authority may
be as much injured by words as by actions. Hence, although the freedom we are discussing cannot
be entirely denied to subjects, its unlimited concession would be most baneful; we must, therefore,
now inquire, how far such freedom can and ought to be conceded without danger to the peace
of the state, or the power of the rulers.

It follows, plainly, from the explanation given above, of the foundations of a state, that
the ultimate aim of government is not to rule, or restrain by fear, nor to exact obedience,
but, contrariwise, to free every man from fear that he may live in all possible security; in
other words, to strengthen his natural right to exist and work without injury to himself or others.

No, the object of government is not to change men from rational beings into beasts or puppets,
but to enable them to develop their minds and bodies in security, and to employ their reason
unshackled; neither showing hatred, anger or deceit, nor watched with the eyes of jealousy
and injustice. In fact, the true aim of government is liberty.

Now we have seen that in forming a state the power of making laws must either be vested in
the body of the citizens, or in a portion of them, or in one man. For, although men's free
judgments are very diverse, each one thinking that he alone knows everything, and although
complete unanimity of feeling and speech is out of the question, it is impossible to preserve
peace unless individuals abdicate their right of acting entirely on their own judgment. Therefore,
the individual justly cedes the right of free action, though not of free reason and judgment;
no one can act against the authorities without danger to the state, though his feelings and
judgment may be at variance therewith; he may even speak against them, provided that he does
so from rational conviction, not from fraud, anger or hatred, and provided that he does not
attempt to introduce any change on his private authority.

For instance, supposing a man shows that a law is repugnant to sound reason, and should therefore
be repealed; if he submits his opinion to the judgment of the authorities (who alone have the
right of making and repealing laws), and meanwhile acts in nowise contrary to that law, he
has deserved well of the state, and has behaved as a good citizen should; but if he accuses
the authorities of injustice, and stirs up the people against them, or if he seditiously strives
to abrogate the law without their consent, he is a mere agitator and rebel.

Thus we see how an individual may declare and teach what he believes, without injury to the
authority of his rulers, or to the public peace; namely, by leaving in their hands the entire
power of legislation as it affects action, and by doing nothing against their laws, though
he be compelled often to act in contradiction to what he believes, and openly feels, to be best.

Such a course can be taken without detriment to justice and dutifulness, nay, it is the one
which a just and dutiful man would adopt. We have shown that justice is dependent on the laws
of the authorities, so that no one who contravenes their accepted decrees can be just, while
the highest regard for duty, as we have pointed out, is exercised in maintaining public peace
and tranquillity. These could not be preserved if every man were to live as he pleased. Therefore
it is no less than undutiful for a man to act contrary to his country's laws, for if the practice
became universal the ruin of states would necessarily follow.

Hence, so long as a man acts in obedience to the laws of his rulers, he in nowise contravenes
his reason, for in obedience to reason he transferred the right of controlling his actions
from his own hands to theirs. This doctrine we can confirm from actual custom, for in a conference
of great and small powers, schemes are seldom carried unanimously, yet all unite in carrying
out what is decided on, whether they voted for or against. But I return to my proposition.

From the fundamental notions of a state, we have discovered how a man may exercise free judgment
without detriment to the supreme power: from the same premises we can no less easily determine
what opinions would be seditious. Evidently those which by their very nature nullify the compact
by which the right of free action was ceded. For instance, a man who holds that the supreme
power has no rights over him, or that promises ought not to be kept, or that every one should
live as he pleases, or other doctrines of this nature in direct opposition to the above-mentioned
contract, is seditious, not so much from his actual opinions and judgment, as from the deeds
which they involve; for he who maintains such theories abrogates the contract which tacitly,
or openly, he made with his rulers. Other opinions which do not involve acts violating the
contract, such as revenge, anger, and the like, are not seditious, unless it be in some corrupt
state, where superstitious and ambitious persons, unable to endure men of learning, are so
popular with the multitude that their word is more valued than the law.

However, I do not deny that there are some doctrines which, while they are apparently only
concerned with abstract truths and falsehoods, are yet propounded and published with unworthy
motives.... Reason should nevertheless remain unshackled. If we hold to the principle that
a man's loyalty to the state should be judged, like his loyalty to God, from his actions only--namely,
from his charity towards his neighbors; we cannot doubt that the best government will allow
freedom of philosophical speculation no less than of religious belief. I confess that from
such freedom inconveniences may sometimes arise, but what question was ever settled so wisely
than no abuses could possibly spring therefrom? He who seeks to regulate everything by law
is more likely to arouse vices than to reform them. It is best to grant what cannot be abolished,
even though it be in itself harmful. How many evils spring from luxury, envy, avarice, drunkenness
and the like, yet these are tolerated--vices as they are--because they cannot be prevented
by legal enactments. How much more, then, should free thought be granted, seeing that it is
in itself a virtue and that it cannot be crushed! Besides, the evil results can easily be checked,
as I will show, by the secular authorities, not to mention that such freedom is absolutely
necessary for progress in science and the liberal arts: for no man follows such pursuits to
advantage unless his judgment be entirely free and unhampered.

But let it be granted that freedom may be crushed, and men be so bound down that they do not
dare to utter a whisper, save at the bidding of their rulers; nevertheless this can never be
carried to the pitch of making them think according to authority, so that the necessary consequences
would be that men would daily be thinking one thing and saying another, to the corruption of
good faith, that mainstay of government, and to the fostering of hateful flattery and perfidy,
whence spring stratagems, and the corruption of every good art.

It is far from possible to impose uniformity of speech, for the more rulers strive to curtail
freedom of speech the more obstinately are they resisted; not indeed by the avaricious, the
flatterers, and other numskulls, who think supreme salvation consists in filling their stomachs
and gloating over their money-bags, but by those whom good education, sound morality, and virtue
have rendered more free. Men, as generally constituted, are most prone to resent the branding
as criminal of opinions which they believe to be true, and the proscription as wicked of that
which inspires them with piety towards God and man; hence they are ready to forswear the laws
and conspire against the authorities, thinking it not shameful but honorable to stir up seditions
and perpetuate any sort of crime with this end in view. Such being the constitution of human
nature, we see that laws directed against opinions affect the generous minded rather than the
wicked, and are adapted less for coercing criminals than for irritating the upright; so that
they cannot be maintained without great peril to the state.

Moreover, such laws are almost always useless, for those who hold that the opinions proscribed
are sound, cannot possibly obey the law; whereas those who already reject them as false, accept
the law as a kind of privilege, and make such boast of it, that authority is powerless to repeal
it, even if such a course be subsequently desired.

... And, lastly, how many schisms have arisen in the Church from the attempt of the authorities
to decide by law the intricacies of theological controversy! If men were not allured by the
hope of getting the law and the authorities on their side, of triumphing over their adversaries
in the sight of an applauding multitude, and of acquiring honorable distinctions, they would
not strive so maliciously, nor would such fury sway their minds. This is taught not only by
reason but by daily examples, for laws of this kind prescribing what every man shall believe
and forbidding any one to speak or write to the contrary, have often been passed as sops or
concessions to the anger of those who cannot tolerate men of enlightenment, and who, by such
harsh and crooked enactments, can easily turn the devotion of the masses into fury and direct
it against whom they will.

How much better would it be to restrain popular anger and fury, instead of passing useless
laws, which can only be broken by those who love virtue and the liberal arts, thus paring down
the state till it is too small to harbor men of talent. What greater misfortune for a state
can be conceived than that honorable men should be sent like criminals into exile, because
they hold diverse opinions which they cannot disguise? What, I say, can be more hurtful than
that men who have committed no crime or wickedness should, simply because they are enlightened,
be treated as enemies and put to death, and that the scaffold, the terror of evil-doers, should
become the arena where the highest examples of tolerance and virtue are displayed to the people
with all the marks of ignominy that authority can devise?

He that knows himself to be upright does not fear the death of a criminal, and shrinks from
no punishment. His mind is not wrung with remorse for any disgraceful deed. He holds that death
in a good cause is no punishment, but an honor, and that death for freedom is glory.

What purpose, then, is served by the death of such men, what example is proclaimed? The cause
for which they die is unknown to the idle and the foolish, hateful to the turbulent, loved
by the upright. The only lesson we can draw from such scenes is to flatter the persecutor,
or else to imitate the victim.

If formal assent is not to be esteemed above conviction, and if governments are to retain a
firm hold of authority and not be compelled to yield to agitators, it is imperative that freedom
of judgment should be granted, so that men may live together in harmony, however diverse, or
even openly contradictory their opinions may be. We cannot doubt that such is the best system
of government and open to the fewest objections, since it is the one most in harmony with human
nature. In a democracy (the most natural form of government) every one submits to the control
of authority over his actions, but not over his judgment and reason; that is, seeing that all
cannot think alike, the voice of the majority has the force of law, subject to repeal if circumstances
bring about a change of opinion. In proportion as the power of free judgment is withheld we
depart from the natural condition of mankind, and consequently the government becomes more
tyrannical.

In order to prove that from such freedom no inconvenience arises which cannot easily be checked
by the exercise of the sovereign power, and that men's actions can easily be kept in bounds,
though their opinions be at open variance, it will be well to cite an example. Such an one
is not very far to seek. The city of Amsterdam reaps the fruit of this freedom in its own great
prosperity and in the admiration of all other people. For in this most flourishing state, and
most splendid city, men of every nation and religion live together in the greatest harmony,
and ask no questions before trusting their goods to a fellow-citizen, save whether he be rich
or poor, and whether he generally acts honestly, or the reverse. His religion and sect is considered
of no importance: for it has no effect before the judges in gaining or losing a cause, and
there is no sect so despised that its followers, provided that they harm no one, pay every
man his due, and live uprightly, are deprived of the protection of the magisterial authority.

On the other hand, when the religious controversy between Remonstrants and Counter-Remonstrants
began to be taken up by politicians and the States, it grew into a schism, and abundantly showed
that laws dealing with religion and seeking to settle its controversies are much more calculated
to irritate than to reform, and that they give rise to extreme license. Further, it was seen
that schisms do not originate in a love of truth, which is a source of courtesy and gentleness,
but rather in an inordinate desire for supremacy. From all these considerations it is clearer
than the sun at noonday, that the true schismatics are those who condemn other men's writings,
and seditiously stir up the quarrelsome masses against their authors, rather than those authors
themselves, who generally write only for the learned, and appeal solely to reason. In fact,
the real disturbers of the peace are those who, in a free state, seek to curtail the liberty
of judgment which they are unable to tyrannize over.

I have thus shown:--I. That it is impossible to deprive men of the liberty of saying what they
think. II. That such liberty can be conceded to every man without injury to the rights and
authority of the sovereign power, and that every man may retain it without injury to such rights,
provided that he does not presume upon it to the extent of introducing any new rights into
the state, or acting in any way contrary to the existing laws. III. That every man may enjoy
this liberty without detriment to the public peace, and that no inconveniences arise therefrom
which cannot easily be checked. IV. That every man may enjoy it without injury to his allegiance.
V. That laws dealing with speculative problems are entirely useless. VI. Lastly, that not only
may such liberty be granted without prejudice to the public peace, to loyalty, and to the rights
of rulers, but that it is even necessary for their preservation. For when people try to take
it away, and bring to trial, not only the acts which alone are capable of offending, but also
the opinions of mankind, they only succeed in surrounding their victims with an appearance
of martyrdom, and raise feelings of pity and revenge rather than of terror. Uprightness and
good faith are thus corrupted, flatterers and traitors are encouraged, and sectarians triumph,
inasmuch as concessions have been made to their animosity, and they have gained the state sanction
for the doctrines of which they are the interpreters. Hence they arrogate to themselves the
state authority and rights, and do not scruple to assert that they have been directly chosen
by God, and that their laws are Divine, whereas the laws of the state are human, and should
therefore yield obedience to the laws of God--in other words, to their own laws. Every one
must see that this is not a state of affairs conducive to public welfare. Wherefore, the safest
way for a state is to lay down the rule that religion is comprised solely in the exercise of
charity and justice, and that the rights of rulers in sacred, no less than in secular matters,
should merely have to do with actions, but that every man should think what he likes and say
what he thinks.

FOOTNOTES:

[41] From the Tr. Th.-P., ch. xx, same title.

CHAPTER XIX

OF HUMAN FREEDOM

Introductory

I pass at length to the other part of ethics which concerns the method or way which leads to
liberty. In [the following], therefore, I shall treat of the power of reason, showing how much
reason itself can control the emotions, and then what is freedom of mind or blessedness. Thence
we shall see how much stronger the wise man is than the ignorant. In what manner and what way
the intellect should be rendered perfect, and with what art the body is to be cared for in
order that it may properly perform its functions, I have nothing to do with here; for the former
belongs to logic, the latter to medicine. I shall occupy myself here, as I have said, solely
with the power of the mind or of reason, first of all showing the extent and nature of the
authority which it has over the emotions in restraining them and governing them; for that we
have not absolute authority over them we have already demonstrated. The Stoics indeed thought
that the emotions depend absolutely on our will, and that we are absolutely masters over them;
but they were driven, by the contradiction of experience, though not by their own principles,
to confess that not a little practice and study are required in order to restrain and govern
the emotions. This one of them attempted to illustrate, if I remember rightly, by the example
of two dogs, one of a domestic and the other of a hunting breed; for he was able by habit to
make the house dog hunt, and the hunting dog, on the contrary, to desist from running after hares.

To the Stoical opinion Descartes much inclines. He affirms that the soul or mind is united
specially to a certain part of the brain called the pineal gland, which the mind by the mere
exercise of the will is able to move in different ways, and by whose help the mind perceives
all the movements which are excited in the body and external objects. This gland, he affirms,
is suspended in the middle of the brain in such a manner that it can be moved by the least
motion of the animal spirits. Again, he affirms that any variation in the manner in which the
animal spirits impinge upon this gland is followed by a variation in the manner in which it
is suspended in the middle of the brain, and moreover that the number of different impressions
on the gland is the same as that of the different external objects which propel the animal
spirits toward it. Hence it comes to pass that if the gland, by the will of the soul moving
it in different directions, be afterwards suspended in this or that way in which it had once
been suspended by the spirits agitated in this or that way, then the gland itself will propel
and determine the animal spirits themselves in the same way as that in which they had before
been repelled by a similar suspension of the gland. Moreover, he affirmed that each volition
of the mind is united in Nature to a certain motion of the gland. For example, if a person
wishes to behold a remote object, this volition will cause the pupil of the eye to dilate,
but if he thinks merely of the dilation of the pupil, to have that volition will profit him
nothing, because Nature has not connected a motion of the gland which serves to impel the animal
spirits towards the optic nerve in a way suitable for dilation or contraction of the pupil
with the volition or dilation or contraction, but only with the volition of beholding objects
afar off or close at hand. Finally, he maintained that although each motion of this gland appears
to be connected by Nature from the commencement of our life with an individual thought, these
motions can nevertheless be connected by habit with other thoughts, a proposition which he
attempts to demonstrate in his "Passions of the Soul" (art. 50, pt. 1).

From this he concludes that there is no mind so feeble that it cannot, when properly directed,
acquire absolute power over its passions; for passions, as defined by him, are "perceptions,
or sensations, or emotions of the soul which are related to it specially, and which (N.B.)
are produced, preserved, and strengthened by some motion of the spirits." (See the "Passions
of Soul," art. 27, pt. 1.) But since it is possible to join to a certain volition any motion
of the gland, and consequently of the spirits, and since the determination of the will depends
solely on our power, we shall be able to acquire absolute mastery over our passions provided
only we determine our will by fixed and firm decisions by which we desire to direct our actions
and bind with these decisions the movements of the passions we wish to have.

So far as I can gather from his own words, this is the opinion of that distinguished man, and
I could scarcely have believed it possible for one so great to have put it forward if it had
been less subtle. I can hardly wonder enough that a philosopher who firmly resolved to make
no deduction except from self-evident principles, and to affirm nothing but what he clearly
and distinctly perceived, and who blamed all the Schoolmen because they desired to explain
obscure matters by occult qualities, should accept a hypothesis more occult than any occult
quality.

What does he understand, I ask, by the union of the mind and body? What clear and distinct
conception has he of thought intimately connected with a certain small portion of matter? I
wish that he had explained this union by its proximate cause. But he conceived the mind to
be so distinct from the body that he was able to assign no single cause of this union, nor
of the mind itself, but was obliged to have recourse to the cause of the whole universe, that
is to say, to God. Again, I should like to know how many degrees of motion the mind can give
to that pineal gland, and with how great a power the mind can hold it suspended. For I do not
understand whether this gland is acted on by the mind more slowly or more quickly than by the
animal spirits, and whether the movements of the passions, which we have so closely bound with
firm decisions, might not be separated from them again by bodily causes, from which it would
follow that although the mind had firmly determined to meet danger, and had joined to this
decision the motion of boldness, the sight of the danger might cause the gland to be suspended
in such a manner that the mind could think of nothing but flight. Indeed, since there is no
relation between the will and motion, so there is no comparison between the power or strength
of the body and that of the mind, and consequently the strength of the body can never be determined
by the strength of the mind. It is to be remembered also that this gland is not found to be
so situated in the middle of the brain that it can be driven about so easily and in so many
ways, and that all the nerves are not extended to the cavities of the brain.

Lastly, I omit all that Descartes asserts concerning the will and the freedom of the will,
since I have shown over and over again that it is false. Therefore, inasmuch as the power of
the mind, as I have shown above, is determined by intelligence alone, we shall determine by
the knowledge of the mind alone the remedies against the emotions--remedies which every one,
I believe, has experienced, although there may not have been any accurate observation or distinct
perception of them, and from this knowledge of the mind alone shall we deduce everything which
relates to its blessedness.

Axioms

I. If two contrary actions be excited in the same subject, a change must necessarily take place
in both, or in one alone, until they cease to be contrary.

II. The power of an emotion is limited by the power of its cause, in so far as the essence
of the emotion is manifested or limited by the essence of the cause itself.

The Strength of the Emotions

The emotion towards an object which we imagine to be free is greater than towards one which
is necessary, and consequently still greater than towards one which we imagine as possible
or contingent. But to imagine an object as free can be nothing else than to imagine it simply,
while we know not the causes by which it was determined to action. An emotion, therefore, towards
an object which we simply imagine is, other things being equal, greater than towards one which
we imagine as necessary, possible, or contingent, and consequently greatest of all.

The mind understands all things to be necessary and determined by an infinite chain of causes
to existence and action, and therefore so far enables itself to suffer less from the emotions
which arise from these things, and to be less affected towards them.

The more this knowledge that things are necessary is applied to individual things which we
imagine more distinctly and more vividly, the greater is this power of the mind over the emotions--a
fact to which experience also testifies. For we see that sorrow for the loss of anything good
is diminished if the person who has lost it considers that it could not by any possibility
have been preserved. So also we see that nobody pities an infant because it does not know how
to speak, walk, or reason, and lives so many years not conscious, as it were, of itself. But
if a number of human beings were born adult, and only a few here and there were born infants,
every one would pity the infants, because we should then consider infancy not as a thing natural
and necessary, but as a defect or fault of Nature. Many other facts of a similar kind we might
observe.

We do not contemplate an object as absent by reason of the emotion by which we imagine it,
but by reason of the fact that the body is affected with another modification, which excludes
the existence of that object. The emotion, therefore, which is related to an object which we
contemplate as absent, is not of such a nature as to overcome the other actions and power of
man, but, on the contrary, is of such a nature that it can in some way be restrained by those
modifications which exclude the existence of its external cause. But the emotion which arises
from reason is necessarily related to the common properties of things, which we always contemplate
as present for nothing can exist which excludes their present existence, and which we always
imagine in the same way. This emotion, therefore, always remains the same, and consequently
the emotions which are contrary to it, and which are not maintained by their external cause,
must more and more accommodate themselves to it until they are no longer contrary to it. So
far, therefore, the emotion which springs from reason is the stronger.

A number of simultaneous causes can do more than if they were fewer, and therefore the greater
the number of the simultaneous causes by which an emotion is excited, the greater it is.

An emotion is bad or injurious only in so far as it hinders the mind from thinking and therefore
that emotion by which the mind is determined to the contemplation of a number of objects at
the same time is less injurious than another emotion equally great which holds the mind in
the contemplation of one object alone or of a few objects, so that it cannot think of others.
Again, since the essence of the mind, that is to say, its power, consists in thought alone,
the mind suffers less through an emotion by which it is determined to the contemplation of
a number of objects at the same time than through an emotion equally great which holds it occupied
in the contemplation of one object alone or of a few objects. Finally, this emotion, in so
far as it is related to a number of external causes, is therefore less towards each.

The Power of the Intellect Over the Emotions

I

General Principles

The order and connection of ideas is the same as the order and connection of things, and vice
versa, the order and connection of things is the same as the order and connection of ideas.
Therefore, as the order and connection of ideas in the mind is according to the order and connection
of the modifications of the body it follows vice versa, that the order and connection of the
modifications of the body is according to the order and connection in the mind of the thoughts
and ideas of things.

If we detach an emotion of the mind from the thought of an external cause and connect it with
other thoughts, then the love or hatred towards the external cause and the fluctuations of
the mind which arise from these emotions will be destroyed.

An emotion which is a passion is a confused idea. If, therefore, we form a clear and distinct
idea of this emotion, the idea will not be distinguished--except by reason--from this emotion,
in so far as the emotion is related to the mind alone, and therefore the emotion will cease
to be a passion.

In proportion, then, as we know an emotion better is it more within our control, and the less
does the mind suffer from it.

Those things which are common to all cannot be otherwise than adequately conceived and therefore
there is no modification of the body of which we cannot form some clear and distinct conception.

Hence it follows that there is no emotion of which we cannot form some clear and distinct conception.
For an emotion is an idea of a modification of the body, and this idea therefore must involve
some clear and distinct conception.

Since nothing exists from which some effect does not follow, and since we understand clearly
and distinctly everything which follows from an idea which is adequate in us, it is a necessary
consequence that every one has the power, partly at least, if not absolutely, of understanding
clearly and distinctly himself and his emotions, and consequently of bringing it to pass that
he suffers less from them. We have therefore mainly to strive to acquire a clear and distinct
knowledge as far as possible of each emotion, so that the mind may be led to pass from the
emotion to think those things which it perceives clearly and distinctly, and with which it
is entirely satisfied, and to strive also that the emotion may be separated from the thought
of an external cause and connected with true thoughts. Thus not only love, hatred, etc., will
be destroyed, but also the appetites or desires to which the emotion gives rise cannot be excessive.
For it is above everything to be observed that the appetite by which a man is said to act is
one and the same appetite as that by which he is said to suffer. For example, we have shown
that human nature is so constituted that every one desires that other people should live according
to his way of thinking, a desire which in a man who is not guided by reason is a passion which
is called ambition, and is not very different from pride; while, on the other hand, in a man
who lives according to the dictates of reason it is an action or virtue which is called piety.
In the same manner, all the appetites or desires are passions only in so far as they arise
from inadequate ideas, and are classed among the virtues whenever they are excited or begotten
by adequate ideas; for all the desires by which we are determined to any action may arise either
from adequate or inadequate ideas. To return, therefore, to the point from which we set out:
there is no remedy within our power which can be conceived more excellent for the emotions
than that which consists in true knowledge of them, since the mind possesses no other power
than that of thinking and forming adequate ideas, as we have shown above.

II

The Natural Basis of Rational Control

The greater the number of objects to which an image or emotion is related, the greater is the
number of causes by which it can be excited and cherished. All these causes the mind contemplates
simultaneously by means of the emotion (by hypothesis), and therefore the more constant is
the emotion, or the more frequently does it present itself, and the more does it occupy the mind.

Things which we clearly and distinctly understand are either the common properties of things
or what are deduced from them, and consequently are more frequently excited in us; and therefore
it is easier for us to contemplate other things together with these which we clearly and distinctly
understand than with any others, and consequently it is easier to connect things with these
which we clearly and distinctly understand than with any others.

The greater the number of other things with which any image is connected, the more frequently
does it present itself. For the greater the number of other things with which an image is connected,
the greater is the number of causes by which it may be excited.

There is no modification of the body of which the mind cannot form some clear and distinct
conception and therefore it can cause all the modifications of the body to be related to the
idea of God.

III

The Function of the Intellectual Order

The emotions which are contrary to our nature, that is to say, which are evil, are evil so
far as they hinder the mind from understanding. So long, therefore, as we are not agitated
by emotions which are contrary to our nature, so long the power of the mind by which it endeavors
to understand things is not hindered, and therefore so long does it possess the power of forming
clear and distinct ideas, and of deducing them the one from the other. So long, consequently,
do we possess the power of arranging and connecting the modifications of the body according
to the order of the intellect.

Through this power of properly arranging and connecting the modifications of the body we can
prevent ourselves from being easily affected by evil emotions. For a greater power is required
to restrain emotions which are arranged and connected according to the order of the intellect
than is required to restrain those which are uncertain and unsettled. The best thing, therefore,
we can do, so long as we lack a perfect knowledge of our emotions, is to conceive a right rule
of life, or sure maxims (dogmata) of life--to commit these latter to memory, and constantly
to apply them to the particular cases which frequently meet us in life, so that our imagination
may be widely affected by them, and they may always be ready to hand. For example, amongst
the maxims of life we have placed this, that hatred is to be conquered by love or generosity,
and is not to be met with hatred in return. But in order that we may always have this prescript
of reason in readiness whenever it will be of service, we must think over and often meditate
upon the common injuries inflicted by men, and consider how and in what way they may best be
repelled by generosity; for thus we shall connect the image of injury with the imagination
of this maxim, and it will be at hand whenever an injury is offered to us. If we also continually
have regard to our own true profit, and the good which follows from mutual friendship and common
fellowship, and remember that the highest peace of mind arises from a right rule of life, and
also that man, like other things, acts according to the necessity of Nature, then the injury
or the hatred which usually arises from that necessity will occupy but the least part of the
imagination, and will be easily overcome: or supposing that the anger which generally arises
from the greatest injuries is not so easily overcome, it will nevertheless be overcome, although
not without fluctuation of mind, in a far shorter space of time than would have been necessary
if we had not possessed those maxims on which we had thus meditated beforehand.

Concerning strength of mind, we must reflect in the same way for the purpose of getting rid
of fear, that is to say, we must often enumerate and imagine the common dangers of life, and
think upon the manner in which they can best be avoided and overcome by presence of mind and
courage. It is to be observed, however, that in the ordering of our thoughts and images we
must always look to those qualities which in each thing are good, so that we may be determined
to action always by an emotion of joy.

For example, if a man sees that he pursues glory too eagerly, let him think on its proper use,
for what end it is to be followed, and by what means it can be obtained; but let him not think
upon its abuse and vanity, and on the inconstancy of men, and things of this sort, about which
no one thinks unless through disease of mind. For with such thoughts do those who are ambitious
greatly torment themselves when they despair of obtaining the honors for which they are striving;
and while they vomit forth rage, wish to be thought wise. Indeed it is certain that those covet
glory the most who are loudest in declaiming against its abuse and the vanity of the world.
Nor is this a peculiarity of the ambitious, but is common to all to whom fortune is adverse
and who are impotent in mind; for we see that a poor and avaricious man is never weary of speaking
about the abuse of money and the vices of the rich, thereby achieving nothing save to torment
himself and show to others that he is unable to bear with equanimity not only his own poverty
but also the wealth of others. So also a man who has not been well deceived by his mistress
thinks of nothing but the fickleness of women, their faithlessness, and their other oft-proclaimed
failing--all of which he forgets as soon as he is taken into favor by his mistress again. He,
therefore, who desires to govern his emotions and appetites from a love of liberty alone will
strive as much as he can to know virtues and their causes, and to fill his mind with that joy
which springs from a true knowledge of them. Least of all will he desire to contemplate the
vices of men and disparage men, or to delight in a false show of liberty. He who will diligently
observe these things (and they are not difficult), and will continue to practice them, will
assuredly in a short space of time be able for the most part to direct his actions in accordance
with the command of reason.

IV

Summary

I have, in what has preceded, included all the remedies for the emotions, that is to say, everything
which the mind, considered in itself alone, can do against them. It appears therefrom that
the power of the mind over the emotions consists--

1. In the knowledge itself of the emotions.

2. In the separation by the mind of the emotions from the thought of an external cause, which
we imagine confusedly.

3. In duration, in which the emotions which are related to objects we understand surpass those
related to objects conceived in a mutilated or confused manner.

4. In the multitude of causes by which the emotions which are related to the common properties
of things or to God are nourished.

5. In the order in which the mind can arrange its emotions and connect them one with the other.

But that this power of the mind over the emotions may be better understood, it is to be carefully
observed that we call the emotions great when we compare the emotion of one man with that of
another, and see that one man is agitated more than another by the same emotion, or when we
compare the emotions of one and the same man with one another, and discover that he is affected
or moved more by one emotion than by another.

For the power of any emotion is limited by the power of the external cause as compared with
our own power. But the power of the mind is limited solely by knowledge, whilst impotence or
passion is estimated solely by privation of knowledge, or, in other words, by that through
which ideas are called inadequate; and it therefore follows that that mind suffers the most
whose largest part consists of inadequate ideas, so that it is distinguished rather by what
it suffers than by what it does, while, on the contrary, that mind acts the most whose largest
part consists of adequate ideas, so that although it may possess as many inadequate ideas as
the first, it is nevertheless distinguished rather by those which belong to human virtue than
by those which are a sign of human impotence. Again, it is to be observed that our sorrows
and misfortunes mainly proceed from too much love towards an object which is subject to many
changes, and which we can never possess. For no one is troubled or anxious about any object
he does not love, neither do wrongs, suspicions, hatreds, etc., arise except from love towards
objects of which no one can be truly the possessor.

From all this we easily conceive what is the power which clear and distinct knowledge, and
especially that third kind of knowledge whose foundation is the knowledge itself of God, possesses
over the emotions; the power, namely, by which it is able, in so far as they are passions,
if not actually to destroy them, at least to make them constitute the smallest part of the
mind. Moreover, it begets a love towards an immutable and eternal object of which we are really
partakers; a love which therefore cannot be vitiated by the defects which are in common love,
but which can always become greater and greater, occupy the largest part of the mind, and thoroughly
affect it.

I have now concluded all that I had to say relating to this present life. For any one who will
attend to what has been urged will easily be able to see the truth of what I said--that in
these few words all the remedies for the emotions are comprehended. It is time, therefore,
that I should now pass to the consideration of those matters which appertain to the duration
of the mind without relation to the body.

CHAPTER XX

OF HUMAN BLESSEDNESS AND THE ETERNITY OF THE MIND

Human Blessedness: The Intellectual Love of God

I

The third kind of knowledge proceeds from an adequate idea of certain attributes of God to
an adequate knowledge of the essence of things; and the more we understand things in this manner,
the more we understand God; and therefore the highest virtue of the mind, that is to say, the
power or nature of the mind, or the highest effort, is to understand things by the third kind
of knowledge.

The better the mind is adapted to understand things by the third kind of knowledge, the more
it desires to understand them by this kind of knowledge.

The highest virtue of the mind is to know God, or to understand things by the third kind of
knowledge. This virtue is greater the more the mind knows things by this kind of knowledge,
and therefore he who knows things by this kind of knowledge passes to the highest human perfection,
and consequently is affected with the highest joy, which is accompanied with the idea of himself
and his own virtue; and therefore from this kind of knowledge arises the highest possible peace
of mind.

The effort or the desire to know things by the third kind of knowledge cannot arise from the
first kind, but may arise from the second kind of knowledge. This proposition is self-evident.
For everything that we clearly and distinctly understand, we understand either through itself
or through something which is conceived through itself; or, in other words, ideas which are
clear and distinct in us, or which are related to the third kind of knowledge, cannot follow
from mutilated and confused ideas, which are related to the first kind of knowledge, but from
adequate ideas, that is to say, from the second and third kinds of knowledge.

II

