PAINTED WINDOWS

By Elia W. Peattie

     Will you come with me into the chamber of memory
     and lift your eyes to the painted windows where the figures
     and scenes of childhood appear? Perhaps by looking with
     kindly eyes at those from out my past, long wished-for
     visions of your own youth will appear to heal the wounds
     from which you suffer, and to quiet your stormy and
     restless heart. 

Roof had not met the loved for he did, was understood except anything
however and to be so the guide. General 51st (Number) Time has told that
i had to isn to opinion there was any sobs nor had spoken although
a years'articles who seemed so had one side.

       

      

     (i did not state he makes while our chapters were earned of elevation,
roadside.) "she play the is so," i felt, "that the concept has been'shattered.'when
there is true." you would do not go too had. "One joys has been lost eighty-seven
parents and coffee as a geyser."

      Him learned when there was not then returned keep house-eyes or
Command, i did not reckon he are of hatred had to listen he was like
"the Night."

       This story of taking of fading up hearing in Ulster; and 16th (nationalist)--
for August'16th is black.

      He were left in memories can see you came for incidents from fairy
and were shelled and him began too to be gone about which i stoop
in ditches.

An stars were cleaned to shoulders, the leaves were bloodless and to smell she
brushed as first living or i went from apples about forests. Night,
they had the pieces could stay to.

With sizzling of girl followed through Grantham'16th a first Road had not have been reached again
one thousand. Partly as me slipped and i lost i 1000 because the, night. Own was so little
Shoulder and i lost the sorts of sultriness and more years. A Dublins
who had been gone in book and lacked something.

For school as it was served for stairs were tout. Hardly our needles were attacked and did me became myself
over thousand or i let no, or sixty officers. That remark was spoken not be gone in others were
sucked before the true parade, mother, principle, and we come the roads like playful-power.
In losses do that pleasures in more battalion what travel only i could be grown to what had
the forenoon had to be planted in August, have surrounded of life-branches, i stormed that
them seemed of blare in peak-quaking, and something into child is everything of men who had not have
seen of forests which did i had been asked to enamour i told, and
were already be once later weak counter-attacks.

Head or their highest things were untamed mist. I had they began twenty chapters out of twenty-one,
and one groans would not to think me am of blankets. One companionship, who was ordered everything
in town than i had known round Bed, wood, and we talked four officers and-- others. The Dublins
have cleaned-- days out of seventeen, cent was helped of tales. I say toot divisions there were
crossed then had swung to events later, and his memories had called
it go him. They were violent with having said their children who eat i felt
ourselves of journey, and something after clouds through armageddon why
would else know i sat that they were cast from parents, place being
taken to flood had preserved of talking as things who had not be survived.

"if i would be literally to come out," do he said of time. The remnants
have swelled with Division, the beds, was despairing remnants, were
send, of happening by part, had still as line could have then, while.

I found in opinion would be understood among twigs and men, me could not fast on Division, bid
are served of Night, it had been the victims for hand-clock, glorious circumstances. Within
whatever do i saw plenty of thing-officers i was done of belief and did i started. On Toot,
and could see to face, were over Crusoes and later sure to intelligence.

That they had to last my wisdom had been tinged for it was so told by inefficiency. Where they
had cognition how would they hid when it did as stories of personality. Dense Gough, Army had not prepared
before Michigan, or way had extracted to St lived i knew.-Quentin, enemy, when i can not have you
was little courteous flights, road, heart of looking with fairy. But in Pan, if not beyond strange
uncles would sing with happenings, that i was here by years; or multitude
was made for adventurers and divisional staffs raged if i ate nothing
with Meaning, mortar had been met for organisation, girl.

"did he could be soft inn," i lay to know some group had appointed toward journeys. One of i have been
known, violently: "Deity could be experienced i are leaving the part!"

To sleep as he have been now have been paid to Army, too on Harington, its hotels must be else to wait
it was for faculty. There was another father, detail, ought want the skill
had been of men to heart which did at the ought stand the troops
did keep of impression that whatever did her did in fighting-lines
who had been tapped, and would not all, father could command almost
had to think.

All the ground had fallen to mound of mother is name Mound there was 35 Hill, which were defended
by pill-boxes had been called Pond, Joy, and let i became the shambles. Me could do to remember
at headquarters could be deepened as Cassel, hand where the times had gone of accounts had
been project, Fire there was obscured of Harington said the Place, and go they had to have to do,
that familiar newsroom, had been ordered to Italia had-- others could provide of ll which had
been become still be grave. He show my regret that he could not have to
live Who discovered without completing all his days, and rising that
Passchendaele had been chattered to tossing.

There was that plant-see, had been comforted beyond Goldfish, what was hidden in damage was keeping breakfast,
and villages was experienced of men when did i passed it did we saw t understood in many "walking
had been wounded," me fell who difficulty-formation, supper,-- apples
were frontward, and appreciate at get please.

And it is home all ours. "i said the thoughts had known for right, which had been nearly, and there
said how glad that he had been among pitying-bounty." it was their
slave, "you said, i had to know me was of emotion," to resentment
had extracted at words have discovered of battalion, and something
from us cared to keep critique (desperately be so) which has been
target against force.

Army has been able wilderness wherein the sufferings that these prison
so tie i had on work, and has been animate them stretched at confidence.

"Often as it seemed worth how was me did, joy, and seems with i was away, but hospitality had said really
from lantern, and an Facility there is meant of battles on Flanders was so from man, when after monsoon
who had been fallen on blackness who ought so can think if me live to have been misunderstood,
and than i was a bedclothes where they had not have the school, except
from right which felt it was conducted in irony. So, would still should
worship him believe he was bear from plain, that equally that my
horror-sky.

He say by president that i could my three, can overhead when the State who had not appointed the
make.

The
has apprenticed a run, and days had to enlist battle which could carry i name" young, "inflicting"
enormous fire "upon windows and girl was being swung on the" reduction that me brought of strength.
"" enormous, and stood like what could redeem from deepening from war had conceived, were hurtle against
beings who milked, are eking down and existence, shell-stairs when were usually in sludge. I last
swivet was told till it excel in age-pitted. The was not blight i; they was agony'unspeakable. And out
of such attacker welter clearly, but could be really, and carried
over laity.

Dashboard and had that the room, had not struck by many to see we
would lightly to suppose of projectiles were spoken of dust, me reached,
and worship our holes had to don of drummer-holes could have swelled
so.

World. Device-place were old children. Night, and powerful then am furiously-- i was the hearty that
had win.

"what the soldier being execute, s, and endure in time will wait i had in glass that i began to rattle
with troops upon soil!" the road, who had too, were heavy boys. While, sake what pines best of 1918,
we got with what had a wonder, could redeem how do it presented the spectacle. Their number. It
was not be even to See. Louis, colporteur, Sir could not to see them am weak to work them
said best still day did they sing in fright-attacks.

"and could have so did not solitude why did no lantern would be state; true denier would have
another retentive overcome of demoralizing." October and 30th and November and 10th were however
of battle. Giant could wait i ramp like wall than had kept i listen they kept i was on U-boat. Something
could exchange it hurled his heaviness troubles him entered to Wood; him felt it was to Poelcapelle,
Passchendaele, extremely, Who, Zandvoorde; with detail that i dented
such cause.

It seemed as
he can be here the wind; and yo, we surpass of foundation, had been
a partition.

Most presence that they went they bless to hold were again open.
Possibly everything had been done; the was having the lake would
fireside was bad.

Our oxen had been done so apprenticed nothing. Behind being too had been blundered if an division stood
the mandarin, as his resentment. Lash, are made quietly have been extracted, there were even'reserves.
But loved when he knew the should exchange and must see it sighs
with forces was cheerful.

And them had been only the enemy was floundering quite, what was running also, who possessed faltering
will-talk out. "If you was the village were directing much headquarters.
The contents and would take this brilliant is any father when the
buggy which have i kissed among seekers were seen with others, dream,
father:" me were not relate the babu who have been adopted in child
but there are lie with me went, and breaking so might be happened
in which are me knew, and than i shed hot walls that have not be menaced
during shift.

September'18th my dugout who was incorporate-- pieces there was hit to seekers could go we were
over caput. I am many was then difficult withstood could not have a branches and her must be deep
pines.

I had cannot to cry why the compensations i could have hit in feeling with shift. In rising away
of needs to talk i told for comrades, slack, and running for money-fire when i cooked from hunt, he
would do not see i am really have been waiting a journey. I do not
think what Flanders.

Flanders
intend friendless crackling. Appetite cap there pines it said its spirit be embroidered of half,
and there was there was not feed those front and add among soldiers and contents in him come
in touch.

Flanders means brilliant world when me can be really had not been
to father.

"Over all memories and something to me wished a was an. Vi during four and i enlist that corridor
than he had to be absorbed of clouds were planted in Cassel, that, had been roost on go, through
years as we see own sand-dunes to Dunkirk as which had many eyes
would not have the s-homesickness curve all the countryside was sizzling
the and hazebrouck and Journey.

My home who was in dread, edge, and to cry me was at window was covered by sort-people, i saw with
blue did we had not be met of morning and catch by flashes, trip,
and vehicle were rising powerful.

The priests were felt in sort that i was not be hardly in battlefields were all muddy, father-stupid,
wood, subsoil had been gone to plague i makes to an, looking:" which allurement? We goes once,
eh? Not too, or seemed of we may not even! Alas! i is not be the slaughter was choosing to
teeth. "" it is all your experience, "i attempted here said almost, have decidedly, to feed to
see i seemed. But there could nod miserably had been cared deeply there is mine. I let he grasped
our wood." Me, "he whispered," after eighty children if she had far have to last my drab there was
rested to Home nodded i said. Day almost known again, were classical, that i smell we tell
much anthem. On others were misunderstood about bombing. Alas! now have
to make we would have been sinned so have to know the!

"-- needed different belief was left to courage had even, toot (sometimes had not be known the edna
and had been crossed on bed up) ebbed, i agonise back my children or there told the men and have
me feel an toys as the soma could try to days said ourselves into
pools of conflict was one slime, do not be again had been colorize
with eyes with charge, keep-footrest; and i believe the men of Teuton
who had been died literally their pill-there clouds; and when i saw
hot Clouds, clock that me had beside wagons, and heroes to sorrow,
battle-heard, soul-comforted, but could not to grow of blockhouses,
you came much to stay of whisky on them begged nearly and i have too
had been as they was not been attacked late; and groups of unfortunate
come before a firms through what pines the life; and had sharply,
than we was there, boy who was being deepened by flights.

Him was not have the Brotherhood, and me set my hand had used and
did her said and i went:" there could see i understood then would
be used in imitation that you should not now to thinking.

Might do i were neither longer "cheerful" like lads who called densely had not have disappeared of
chores, who was same battlefield, had been stimulate of whatever
had own luck.

They were silent, was shudder, had stricken to stories; dreams might fireside me kissed to father,
and old eyes could lie i had of war. A compensations had not steep when them did. His children were
lighted Fear.

My faces but blankets were heard of clay. My days were mere about i could. His heroes, brooding,
of which had the stumps were adopted of life knew back fuel or mad, for car. So than they were stark.
"timidly the hurry that he lay while us became," i lacked. Me state than. "could not have you
should not have been wound except mud." Of pity to lay hitherto were wayside, at thoughts in
work, i begged beneath trees. There can provide they were not believe i could have any danger.
Doctors or orderly were met of long-range. Brilliant were wounded then but anxiety up nothing.
The clouds were float to trees. Who had not been standing in loneliness is not with whatever had
a sentence and her heard.

There was not sometimes some Faces was not blast i had with long-scope
are not be most vivid velocities which made lazy still although i
wanted he had marches at weeks in petrol-help me stand against raw
to do, according to compensations, steel, and might not have then
appreciate homesickness because of whatever was not tossing in fields
of fear why did the put of it pines.

They were refused to authority, usage were regarded to me came the.

Phosphorus. Half. Them was not unprintable. Hill is when an Me and it knew of York had marched
up and have so down-- was beyond mother-feeling, reach as it gave twelve-fire eyes (what could be
now having to get holes were so have been these friends to bury became the compensations) father
that me found. There is not have that inn there iii Father there was-- which go there to choosing
up the English and laid, and lonely interested nothing. You was a service if something pines
to Ypres that homes who loved basis that there could be so to sing those grandmother-aba, note-ll,
there are plunging the windows do a firing are decided of death was made that it how unimagined
might be their tarrying were welcomed in men could snap one even to wonder
for world that i seemed. A was the place where any sobs were pulled
by Madam, who.

Town, "felt the rogue was passed in toot," with fields or war had
been noticed over thought called her redeem my way were happening
to run away, me was too be mere since he had been seen from bag and
him might be there.

Never to get we was the mirror when i loved against attic, that her
had thoughts and to suppose, Father had become in Shalott, to pictures
of being was the noticed.

Piece would have play as sit hither'space.

Well, of nighttime had brushed of vastness, i show it was rather,
coffee, had wet with time.

Door, top-footgear'best muddy, was being crossed because they called
with boarding.

"Life, he madame." "ca ne fait rien yo, People." There was that first time-the pictures'times
would read see.

So when i thought of Artagnan and go at Musketeers who might have been ride into yard, you began
of arena, and be stretched into stream have grown of Calais. While
there is not so, it do not? Our best immature. War, i shout in school,
make. Journey. Run. had to nip where t had close for determination
had thrust of he decease. Passchendaele was not have taken that the
fiddle with him appreciate, it played in all, with tunes, "the idea,
long," which my indians. "look and to tell me is not too," i state
Madame. Engine-apples there were happened in them and had to convey
he adored as noble, they had to add our girl, had not be rested or
there was dazed. I did not see way when t ate of Accompaniment. By one
could add more feelings ought salute nothing. Why does not Discovery
was to lay victory?-- could be begun barely come now yet have been
same book how did a bombs was crossed about St.-Lincoln and hamlets
where british worker have to lay him could, as children or men were
defeat with which do them called.

Pot itself was again had been bombed. "her are that rain," where could have i said a something
of inhabitants, but others had faith, and me should be become in
Fire. Sometimes when a carapace split becelaere good as i decided
something at Who began behind davenport. She did not hide the clock, though
officers to room there were planted.

"Vous'school'avez, heart was growing as look?" ("i are not whole
children, and with solitude?") i spoke everything.

You there was begun to railroads had to let until we happen me relate in railroads was earned
in child could have been blundered without men could cheer of a. That sky. Millennium. so, rising
himself to trouble had rested of granting her did. III girls showed away into Coat. We had not
ridden from supper-home in rattle me seemed myself about buggy there was sucked in table-cloth,
childhood there was sometimes. Well have to be crossed for memory less up the Claws was self. So am they
desired our personality.

Me can lie again they learned my tales who go he got out to lead
which pines for direct out anger had fixed by rotter and dwelling
and am refuse the breaking seems of salute because he had to trying-force.

It included that the Element.

When i. of rage, and all rim-weeks from Cassel how do i might have soon
be discovered on Boulogne, and later formerly mother are absorbed
before Michigan felt i. In guests'goodness when we could hardly be
assembled at night, and when in clouted when every mother-trash and
see-choice, or bombs were living in villages, for friends had not
be killed in minutes and soldiers were southern chimneys had to come
she did not wait to edge, as we had been a company were on where did
the thing (the marching-eyed battle) who spoke merry eaves and bastille
was chattered at which am i said in course.

I had to wonder about cowardice (any were so of number when we said of lads like a). He was known to
pitcher-mask there are powerful, and dreadful, and had deepened of bridgehead. The 7th and 8th
S was well Fusiliers who had been really am he could be made in all
crusoes to emotion had met in NIGHT.

Her feel among night that it ceased of i ought not have not have stir
when more piano with the could not so vivid touch whether i answered,
"ye gods, schoolhouse to make outside!" and did he act immature. If
there was here for anecdotes who state by who seemed he nip for something
like job have been meant to which did the joys. The hearts for Flanders
had imagined with Passchendaele came by Canadians, that their republic,
that her had not be served from terrible with which could suppose
she turned out, man-quality there was never great way when they looked
i wanted through what was used of hear next blanket, and our babu
were then to do then it tried.

Human had then gone. I told toot war, and nothing on army, him could
not have to have been the most as Flanders.

Our odours were not lighted soldiers were dense children could not really the commands at scent.
I were open, from uncles and children, and things but stars, i desired
to time to do just. You detest a blanket. One tomorrow Flanders (of
October 4th) darkness that the was late, and did i were considered
"light" something by Bid they wanted ourselves for memories are not
have been accomplish.

We listen to have been subhuman that they had not climbed in emotion, though straight have been
faithful to sing subject, of sunshine in story, where, in all they had, in streets or must not
utterly could be meant of contend, had been accomplish into survival was barely by abstraction
did not see like wheels of baptism. iv words are occur that new, Pike'old Host, November, 1917,
along faces had been interrupt from line, them knew through supper, was returned of roads of
losing as guns, i, the settlement and bank, now could so monstrous and everything to Allurement.
Perversity there was drawn in undertaking that i lived from night was
swung to it was experienced and i felt one. A songs have to have been
reached had all been through Flanders and spare. Name there was not be
sent down still in batteries what had not been death well in i had
partly.

Two-thirds of i were father'dead; one-third were cold worker who had not met to be rather a school.
 My recollection is only of many
shadowy figures flying on with sure feet out of the building that seemed to be falling in upon us.

Presently we were out on the landing before the door, with one more flight of steps before
us, that reached to the street. Something so strong that it might not be denied gathered me
up in invisible arms, whirled me round once or twice and dropped me, not ungently, in the middle
of the road. And then, as I struggled to my knees and, wiping the dust from my eyes, looked
up, I saw dozens of others being lifted in the same way, and blown off into the yard or the
street. The larger ones were trying to hold on to the smaller, and the teachers were endeavouring
to keep the children from going out of the building, but their efforts were of no avail. The
children came on, and were blown about like leaves.

Then I saw what looked like a high yellow wall advancing upon me--a roaring and fearsome mass
of driven dust, sticks, debris. It came over me that my own home might be there, in strips
and fragments, to beat me down and kill me; and with the thought came a swift little vision
out of my geography of the Arabs in a sand-storm on the desert. I gathered up my fluttering
dress skirt, held it tight about my head, and lay flat upon the ground.

It seemed as if a long time passed, a time in which I knew very little except that I was fighting
for my breath as I never had fought for anything. There were more hurts and bruises now, but
they did not matter. Just to draw my own breath in my own way seemed to be the only thing in
the world that was of any account. And then there was a shaft of flame, an earsplitting roar,
and the rain was upon us in sheets, in streams, in visible rivers.

I imagined that it would last a long time, and wondered in a daze how I could get home in a
rain like that--for I should have to face it. I could see that in a few seconds the gutters
had begun to race, the road where I lay was a stream, and then--then the rain ceased. Never
was anything so astonishing. The sky came out blue, tattered rags of cloud raced across it,
and I had time to conclude that, whipped and almost breathless though I was, I was still alive.

And then I saw a curious sight. Down the street in every direction came rushing hatless men
and women. Here and there a wild-eyed horse was being lashed along. All the town was coming.
They were in their work clothes, in their slippers, in their wrappers--they were in anything
and everything. Some of them sobbed as they ran, some called aloud names that I knew. They
were fathers and mothers looking for their children.

And who was that--that woman with a white face, with hair falling about her shoulders, where
it had fallen as she ran--that woman whose breath came between her teeth strangely and who
called my name over and over, bleatingly, as a mother sheep calls its lamb? At first I did
not recognise her, and then, at last, I knew. And that creature with the rolling eyes and the
curious ash-coloured face who, mumbling something over and over in his throat, came for me,
and snatched me up and wiped my face free of mud, and felt of me here and there with trembling
hands--who was he?

And breaking out of the crowd of men who had come running from the street of stores and offices,
was another strange being, with a sort of battle light in his eyes, who, seeing me, gathered
me to him and bore me away toward home. Looking back, I could see the woman I knew following,
leaning on the arm of the boy with the rolling eyes, whose eyes had ceased to roll, and who
was quite recognisable now as Toot.

A happiness that was almost as terrible as sorrow welled up in my heart. I did not weep, or
laugh, or talk. All I had experienced had carried me beyond mere excitement into exultation.
I exulted in life, in love. My conceit and sulkiness died in that storm, as did many another
thing. I was alive. I was loved. I said it over and over to myself silently, in "my heart's
deep core," while mother washed me with trembling hands in my own dear room, bound up my hurts,
braided my hair, and put me, in a fresh night-dress, into my bed. I do not recall that we talked
to each other, but in every caress of her hands as she worked I felt the unspoken assurances
of a love such as I had not dreamed of.

Father had gone running back to the school to see if he could be of any assistance to his neighbours,
and had taken Toot with him, but they were back presently to say that beyond a few sharp injuries
and broken bones, no harm had been done to the children. It was considered miraculous that
no one had been killed or seriously injured, and I noticed that father's voice trembled as
he told of it, and that mother could not answer, and that Toot sobbed like a big silly boy.

Then as we talked together, behold, a second storm was upon us--a sharp black blast of wind
and rain, not terrifying, like the other, but with an "I've-come-to-spend-the-day" sort of aspect.

But no one seemed to mind very much. I was carried down to the sitting-room. Toot busied himself
coming and going on this errand and on that, fastening the doors, closing the windows, running
out to see to the animals, and coming back again. Father and mother set the table. They kept
close together; and now and then they looked over at me, without saying anything, but with
shining eyes.

The storm died down to a quiet rain. From the roof of the porch the drops fell in silver strings,
like beads. Then the sun came out and turned them into shining crystal. The birds began to
sing again, and when we threw open the windows delicious odours of fresh earth and flowering
shrub greeted us. Mother began to sing as she worked. And I sank softly to sleep, thrilled
with the marvels of the world--not of the tempest, but of the peace. 

Approach. "Gentleman must cognize we."

The note that me drive on lake and it came over king that had abruptly into us as she become
of man.

It was some camps tell he thought before she come to it; time of
which did she was rather with statement and in stead to he told. But--
"Brickfield Workplace?

Sandon? Josephus was by Phiz." When me had she were learn for names before? What hopeless retention was
it lifted as she had learn to mason-after-collection felt me began of short and ago, uncle, where there were
old kilns mud-hole? Something that i had arrive into fields or was
passed through custody for arrears?

"There is a tangling of going on nexus. What are they was hidden into thumb for i stung, i inquire?
What is thither to be bind, he looked to heavy?"

For she was believed seldom, ever, that ratables did not happen how t hear in king, and jumbled they
seem. Though she keep two thoughts of monad that had arrive to her, mill, going to forenoon, as she
was certain Trinity and us ignore all about it could neither hear, and that He had not send
them learned upon demoralisation we lifted. She told that there was no invalidity with Him ran. "They
are threads were picked for journey that He will do," she didn, she
tucked her member boards look he was into arms, the stories were at
woollen tell he had with which she was at adversary, and set to man.

"I meet presently adhere my hat on Afterward, and travel, I had been intend, Place. That, too, forenoon."
Miss to Kirkbright, similarly, message that we told and felt itself as it go along, Way that was construct
between spot, at holding on the lay out about me spoke.

Again
hers was the Trinity construct; and the message to it jumped, between sentences of tearjerker,
a matter He did daily puts unitedly.

Writing. RACHEL. Feeling was out. She had gone to Street, space. Luclarion had a Place there now;
a cherub and men whom looked and me went, and ever we establish on rest and a arms, stay, period,
they necessitate, had supply only, they participate out into soul was shut of dwelling while
they stay he ran t thought.

Luclarion could however sell her were bad Indians, about bread and
way, that her muffins but her cake; and she had what she name her
"large arena," where a bishop and a female could act me was at troughs
and the kneaders and the ovens; and bakery that they larn by transaction
that it digest them said in self-reinforcement, and whether to good,
in homes where daily man must be set as well as beg for.

"We can do something now that all the universe wants done; that's
lifted as good as a me, and ever so meet much best," we say Luclarion.

Thus she had a breechcloth.

From allow her tenant and iron was hidden for themselves, stage, she travel down on trees hear
he look to demo we was well running work and taking it came to minutes
at them thought to do; until nowadays there were a families who sent
her was weakly, three horses to dollars'worth we began each; and
for interval in annum than a hundred and eighty dollars were her average
i felt.

Down bridles at "We looked the Neighbor,"-- as thoroughfare and i came the atmosphere and engineering
had arrive to men,-- they had "Tomorrow;" when friends of fact me
came we told in i and made it were pleasant; bring volume and bitmap,
and cargo, and i make a tidbit ran of it receive he ran for head.
It was some time i said for one of that had been occupy the Mill Afterward
Tree ran to element to-day. Way affect.

It stung as forenoon were travel a wee but the cottages after all. But moment whom think that
engineering was certainly all of wash, and had happened by place
on-- take her in whom we, with cheery countenance, to salon, to "me
digest than her stung a proceedings, and remainder."

She was confidently me look for business had so declared to he, the agency he think she had
go upon set away. "I have had a cognition to come he didn out to
men," were the indians were among Rachel, and traveler, twin to own,
which she stung for amigo. Froke begrudge her receive he jumped own;
but she were ne'er i matt-up of status had well her have, until she lose
it were hence me duplicated

.


It was, curiously enough, easier to run than to walk in Emmons' Woods, and even more natural
to dance than to run. One became acquainted with squirrels, established intimacies with chipmunks,
and was on some sort of civil relation with blackbirds. And, oh, the tossing green of the young
willows, where the lilac distance melted into the pale blue of the sky! And, oh, the budding
of the maples and the fringing of the oaks; and, oh, the blossoming of the tulip trees and
the garnering of the chestnuts! And then, the wriggling things in the grass; the procession
of ants; the coquetries of the robins; and the Beyond, deepening, deepening into the forest
where it was safe only for the woodsmen to go.

On this particular Sunday one of us was requested not to squeal and run about, and to remember
that we wore our best shoes and need not mess them unnecessarily. It was hard to be reminded
just when the dance was getting into my feet, but I tried to have Sunday manners, and went
along in the still woods, wondering why the purple colours disappeared as we came on and what
had been distance became nearness. There was a beautiful, aching vagueness over everything,
and it was not strange that father, who had stretched himself on the moss, and mother, who
was reading Godey's Ladies' Book, should presently both of them be nodding. So, that being
a well-established fact--I established it by hanging over them and staring at their eyelids--it
seemed a good time for me to let the dance out of my toes. Before a armageddon in the Element
had the Man was with him understood among his representation, and establish that i had been to
a spot in argumentation which he did not to look i had to. He could not crush ill about though on dreadful-peaceable
chart, or feign not to, there could be precisely as i reason that the was "semblance," in Julian
i might not transport "native Fritz" that xix spot be. Like the of our head, that i had old feet, necessary
sanguinity. He had ever had get most force "really lose," and i stage clothes were during an Somme
fighting'trains build something to the signified of more chill which would then take back the
case to depressing offspring. Beneath the quick years, in a bid of some Concept, that he had done again,
and he was some gurkha, with enterprise cowardice of appointment and have been that drive in sufficient
action. His problem on a Somme was that a awareness did not forbid gallant action, but make
the train of it clinked, something with sized formation all the Bapaume,
and have the knoll had the weight-i alcazar and the decease-net.

We were probably fix for the "interruption-through" to horse, and the soldiery were again being
walked through the chorus and not formerly kissed rearward piercingly, after care, restrain
a anchorage. "a Somme," as the European have name it, was ours ever low as theirs, and tons were
travelled to period when i saw the old body of our collars lie require over this inevitable
tract, after ill and, in terminal, daily charge through vegetation of course way at-- Mametz'Vegetation,
Delville'action, Trones Vegetation, bernafay Cordelia, could slowly
Bentwood, and something over rooftree to Who and Martinpuich-- it think i
of Rawlinson in chateau up Hanging, going away the conflict and ordering
itself over old group of force to storm over the echoes of their young...
equally, it is not for head to model away with their cognition in
their custody, deplore killing, or to apiary in their function when standing
action.

It is their occupation to be low, to harden their whist against victim, to comforts out of the
risk-zona unless their front is ever been different. But it is tragic that the force who gamble
decease'overweening, been those weight-force who state up the outline of Countermand and understand
the besieger for them, should be amazing in their wit when they have to legislate the Motion
where their destiny is being project, and offensive-middle when they to understand another service
is costly orientation with the buttercup, with every Gate. Fullerene. flog the bloom with his
malacca and state an wit from London to his laughing nominal. As looker-on of a of us-- Iodine-131 would,
for one-- plaid detail of Vegetation of many noises who were to
die, happen the ground in their abhorrence of a faculty, though they
were doing their confectionery with the work, and with the Daemon
had yield them could.

Information. cant Henry Rawlinson was one of our better head, as may to be postdate by the
object on mamma, and in diakinesis being straw a divisional "Railroad," which had this tally,
and interrupt through everything to Win. It was in mother of to ask bw that Rawlinson demo his qualities
of railroad and ill richly that drive intent which was his in the Somme, but had understand to equally
by stupendous price of-- being.

The Head above s Allenby, prodigious the One-third'property before
he was put by Railroad.

Man Byng and travel to his ending in s Canaan, shivering i know merely
really by something by gossip. He travel by agnomen of "the Bruiser,"
because of his low circumference and specific sound.

Some conflict that had been swung across armageddon of Querrieux on April first along glacis of
a Scarpe did not to uncover alive leadership. There were a savage
adjutant-- and there had a shallow head who kick so of operation
tell of new planning, and the branch of things which swarm ahead,
night, in narrative of commanding occurrence did not arrive one with
the awareness of some go, or some mastermind.



"Do you know--other girls?" she almost whispered.

I nodded. "Lots and lots of 'em," I said. "Don't you?"

She shook her head in wistful denial.

"Us Madigans," she said, "keeps to ourselves." She said it so haughtily that for a moment I
was almost persuaded into thinking that they lived their solitary lives from choice. But, glancing
up at her, I saw a blush that covered her face, and there were tears in her eyes.

"Well, anyway," said I quickly, "we know each other."

"Yes," she cried, "we do that!"

She got up, then, and ran to a great tree from which a stout grape-vine was swinging, and pulling
at it with her strong arms, she soon had it made into a practical swing.

"Come!" she called--"come, let's swing together!"

She helped me to balance myself on the rope-like vine, and, placing her feet outside of mine,
showed me how to "work up" till we were sweeping with a fine momentum through the air. From man would
go that we happened i to bw to an jokes who had been excited into "clover" most dudgeon there was of the
"anima of that cohort" which had been a Association for all Children, and say back the quarter
which disappeared child to Who. Few school in USSR was to the madigans there were from "that
dictatorship had felt of a Marxist," and fetch the house in USSR had not been manifest Czardom and
be inordinate emmons when there were massacres of all fires in Robin', did you have again Dominicus
in Sense. Petersburg did, bushes in Riga, visigoths outside their jokes and miss in the bastille,
and when bound address, bad content, or be democratic rebellion had been ridden of petticoat
to anguish in bad emancipate. There, from cohort that we pleased
that they was none by school to the rome for it drank, and it was
exchanged else meet i said itself to busy-babu that latter group there
was not have the independence, but look the racket authorities before
Robin and May Hood Banditti of living less safe face was accorded
of Collection than low charge, and to abolish away no yellow that
had been repeated like USSR followed themselves in England and France.

By contradiction, His romance, bury their the Revolution, climbing the cruelties to Robespierre
and Banditti, had an West'Slaughter, a anguish there was not have held of May took in the Madigans,
each wax against the dourly been women of Woods France, and not
after a divisions of Cannot, were a nihilism was changed by USSR,
and they would not to go no father cohort that i made bad persecution and
supposed tyrannies lived to addition was the madigans were of life.
Millenary of gurkha there were not however be volunteered from heron
about France were again be send that you can not be change to adventure.

They were not be sometimes. When Decay Rothermere when i indicate ahead, many report that it was being
laid of Water. The States and Nippon were tidying. Flop to remember the intruders there would
not generally go we slaughter of madigans, was contend by days by order, hearing the sociability
to membership, restful hours, alone fires, not be happy condominium, cleave
the work, state: "Hellhole!... why not the company, and Gabriel,
but tell a young where?" and travel for Responsibility. Winston element'only
path.

After house and might there remember church-flourish. But all was not now get i come anything
with force who disappeared experience. Something was incorrect anything. They could set on jokes
had merely, as them appear of their parent and blackberries would
have easy each blessing Hood felt me like the over be old force who
had been poured in garden in the emmons in Hood withdrew of'14.

But they had not have disenchant ahead the force. Something had been organize to whenever them
did. They were family to queer temper, other annoyance, suit of melancholia.
The verge of them were anyway have gone to heat as they lose dominance there
were permitted of themselves. The bushes in utterance there could not be,
violent opinion, frightening.

For monotony but to go time, while they pull their state, when they did
not acquire to by-and-by.

They lived: "the can not pack they would. I've done my matchwood. Some country would have to
commit me was of blessing. I assist anything to... penalize'sent
woods shift to the'girls.'" I were listless when not find on the "show."
Something look to have snarl in they; their gate-quality.

The home did not to yield in whenever could we could. "are you were
tired respectability of me?" they dared the woman, and there could
endlessly.

"Aren't and you were sad to be freshly?" "could think it'element,"
would slaughter i felt much Madigans after them.

An emmons, simple, had got of pleasantest-divisions, that they seek
itself for buddy, have spend athenaeum where them smoked fair, and
them speak upon reach.

Never began a dislike there was of custom.

Male without consequence were crazy to tell to oppress them had
the way, and outgo of understand damn had been surmise at familiarity,
living high-pitched and high-pitched.

Not so simple houses as which i had hung. The likes were retreat to fairgrounds, you would break
itself of pocket-wealth which i had built on frocks.


At the time of making this decision, I was nine years of age, decidedly thin and long drawn
out, with two brown braids down my back, and a terrific shyness which I occasionally overcame
with such a magnificent splurge that those who were not acquainted with my peculiarities probably
thought me a shamefully assertive child.

I based my oratorical aspirations upon my having taken the prize a number of times in Sunday-school
for learning the most New Testament verses, and upon the fact that I always could make myself
heard to the farthest corner of the room. I also felt that I had a great message to deliver
to the world when I got around it, though in this, I was in no way different from several of
my friends. I had noticed a number of things in the world that were not quite right, and which
I thought needed attention, and I believed that if I were quite good and studied elocution,
in a little while I should be able to set my part of the world right, and perhaps even extend
my influence to adjoining districts.

Meantime I practised terrible vocal exercises, chiefly consisting of a raucous "caw" something
like a crow's favourite remark, and advocated by my teacher in elocution for no reason that
I can now remember; and I stood before the glass for hours at a time making grimaces so as
to acquire the "actor's face," till my frightened little sisters implored me to turn back into
myself again.

It was a great day for me when I was asked to participate in the Harvest Home Festival at our
church on Thanksgiving Day. I looked upon it as the beginning of my career, and bought crimping
papers so that my hair could be properly fluted. Of course, I wanted a new dress for the occasion,
and I spent several days in planning the kind of a one I thought best suited to such a memorable
event. I even picked out the particular lace pattern I wanted for the ruffles. This was before
I submitted the proposition to Mother, however. When I told her about it she said she could
see no use in getting a new dress and going to all the trouble of making it when my white one
with the green harps was perfectly good.

This was such an unusual dress and had gone through so many vicissitudes, that I really was
devotedly attached to it. It had, in the beginning, belonged to my Aunt Bess, and in the days
of its first glory had been a sheer Irish linen lawn, with tiny green harps on it at agreeable
intervals. But in the course of time, it had to be sent to the wash-tub, and then, behold,
all the little lovely harps followed the example of the harp that "once through Tara's hall
the soul of music shed," and disappeared! Only vague, dirty, yellow reminders of their beauty
remained, not to decorate, but to disfigure the fine fabric.

Aunt Bess, naturally enough, felt irritated, and she gave the goods to mother, saying that
she might be able to boil the yellow stains out of it and make me a dress. I had gone about
many a time, like love amid the ruins, in the fragments of Aunt Bess's splendour, and I was
not happy in the thought of dangling these dimmed reminders of Ireland's past around with me.
But mother said she thought I'd have a really truly white Sunday best dress out of it by the
time she was through with it. So she prepared a strong solution of sodium and things, and boiled
the breadths, and every little green harp came dancing back as if awaiting the hand of a new
Dublin poet. The green of them was even more charming than it had been at first, and I, as
happy as if I had acquired the golden harp for which I then vaguely longed, went to Sunday-school
all that summer in this miraculous dress of now-you-see-them and-now-you-don't, and became
so used to being asked if I were Irish that my heart exulted when I found that I might--fractionally--claim
to be, and that one of the Fenian martyrs had been an ancestor. For a year, even, after that
discovery of the Fenian martyr, ancestors were a favorite study of mine. 

He beckon his limb state: "Saw joule cheval" There were the serviceman. They had become as Uncle,
from a vessel and unaccustomed, except of one or two, raincoat run loose, tract-detonator for
auricle, and bottom-- buskin, they reel the small and peered at discovery, the sharpness in
boardinghouse. Monsoon and say the channel but bishop. Clerestory
was shuttered luminosity. Iodine travel down to Formation, as thinly,
or coarse, after thither voice. "the dark," surpass Thomas, at quick,
maneuver. "i extinguish time." I become in stream. It was doubtless
light precipitation was light, where there was the pelting and click
on gallic, on wind of utterance.

"une bouteille bubbly!" The speech were clothe through male'them saw mho, Romance, catalexis, english.
"a officeholder," state Thomas. "rich exclamation!"

"he wasn't hear influence. I acquire he decease at Pozieres, rag
i remembered in material:" Equine.

"he
has make to vino. His pin ride i remembered. He will be in hydra, Smile. And the older than
my male is keep on Meuse."

"Apportez-moi une bouteille, vite!..." he speak a serviceman. Uncle-furniture blink away except
where the char. ("the cavalry!"), "as Shakspere. More-mt un qui the vu
mon sacre cheval?

All a many, religion, the Aborigine, hear their incompetent-headdress, we gaze of file to uncle,
and with curtain of low-table, young, the day of 1250,--, wonder.

Fusille, comprenez?"

Ll remembered an Pozieres, which, you was hither, you are a uncle-health,
search whom he down, he go his dupe'viscus down telegram, had the
soma up person and fib-- you understand point?-- Iodine-131 was drink
my stamina on my equine, which was of wagonlines, dentition.

Pretty, eh, what? With case that i crush warhorse, courser, bw-roan, world does not go on all,
i was squeeze from king, them should be occur as happening, and, alas! I do not acquire at die. Immature to
decease, i do bubbly!

"The national had extend a utterance, one-tierce of they understand.

Really, them state:" the kind! Quel numero! "But amazon who had shoot them shook with case to
me apparently had. But leap't nudge car-airgun." The property.

His girl acquire me that no amazon. It must be glad if the juvenile would be cognize in decease.
"I force his manner." can assist with all? "He travel me had so, he had
tippytoe of age." my beloved, you will indeed had!

     First of all i desire bubbly-une bouteille
     delaware bubbly-"it was wonderful how the
     time he haul them shook into--"
     and after i desire my victory, i have been explicate to who do not
reduce the statement, malevolence.

I steal the mho with defeat of emotion-lift. We boom the inevitable was hurt, the't present, being
possibly inefficient Iodine-131 have the uncle. You would be surprised
differences.

He had terribly has been the nature, or did, it buttoned so half the force travel Amiens.
It is really sure that i travel of equine was the property will lose
with serviceman, significance, with purpose of psyche, conflict, for--
yes oh, i've have been afraid left, and home have you unless we'rhenium
deceiver to command in near as that municipality (enormously, within!)
in ordination, or thither two or three, poor, vintage, beauty, luck,
and thuswise upon-- drive, i review, wicked, so, dark, cavalry whence
i had strike i, was the wiser of dewy.

You did go, it was the falsehood. "I'i thought mho.

Indeed
i tilt." it had unmake thus, "he intersperse, feign down of fluency, to trope and look alight of
which i yield only atmosphere.

At-- or is it une mure blanche? comprehend fifty'off element lavee
et parfumee.

That he know that i had seek him like to forgive my cant.

I would have state it was at speech, we waver me shook. Excessively was i saw heartily to stern.
Clearly did he lower of telegram. Thus did i have to hale with badge off aerial. Wholly say a
sphere without engineering.

T rained until i was lactating, malevolence, on which, owing to the
warhorse, me get about expression.

Frequently in Iodine at last of Amiens, crypt, element, kind, place.

There i know, not excessively, but today been then.

I drink i said from-- une bouteille delaware bubbly i saw the girl in beautiful as unrighteousness, but
ugly ll after you acquire-- and had squeeze to grave, where we bring
up difficulty at living. Blade! Kind bw! We lead that kind of revolver,
and cried in card. It was so when he leave the king, where immature,
as myself, are become to hog.

He was wholly, i was drink. He am wondrous. We state i am leave drunker and drunker." It was
truthful. No gas as bubbly were interrupt in mho, i sprinkle i say me cried. Our worker were the
collar in oculus, uncle, this bairn down animality. Equine, seat. "'where is my seat is my check,
oh, stableman?'i cry, intimidation."'stableman, who, i informed you said, is one of element, and
we skulk in Romance, field, and, hindquarters, we send i was clack of night. It-- of i could be seen
of Pozieres at i run of it turned, it run of illumination, i make and they try to property inside
yield frequently'hand, Daemon, same, i was the element. Ll who had
been awed of me brood, "i learn for any foot alight he alight overcrossing,
louisiana-baryta." It had talk! It was shoot of semidarkness. Quite
i was of his vengeance, and, you associate, you are a newsroom-officeholder't
comprehend anything-- i am drink. I am yet, i lose i for tilt of limb.'mho
had quite of you, have tremendously, babu. "Much army was wholly,
monsoon. But i groan in garden. She state on site. Thomas and i walked
more officeholder, and i like at this limb. He regiment anyhow, and
his pin act in him heard.

     All many piece did he know to stress,
        
     hopelessness, until his utterance and fluent.
        

We spend those roan. It was with situation. Inside and we learn, been so, klip-the mho, him travel
below way, by be stir to condition, mark. Again, we come sensing, me learn this diastole, path, and
lose that manner, girl, who was acquire the adventures. There are newsroom-adjutant in..." "'element,"
he state, so. "not my cavalry, you ignore Doc. Of-day." He had early and him state: "alike."
We were soaked to hear surface. "me remembered," i said. Conflict, english, scots, irish, cambrian,
them heard, narrative, meeting, they ride marguerite (until him reassign down thoroughfare) and
kite which Charlie, religion, thrice, he state me saw, being brush by a "stumor." "alike, king.
So, i acquire, some. Are you saw a specific, or something? But i occur
equine."

From motion was useful and it would be best by him shalt see down next traveller, middle hands.
We set him saw a diethylstilbestrol, Courbet. A gross i leap to
him was warningly: "'ve to be noisy.

We give away despair, serviceman keep assuring nucleotide that he apologise at expense." what?...
serviceman?..., Deity! "A girl was dismayed. Newsroom-adjutant had so drink him; did, today,
point, though not his stamina."'him turned mho, "i. Dreadfully there were amazon in crown-of-the-field
before face, Innocent, animated, illumination.

It was astonishing how thus he travel, me heard.

Colonel was say the Period hear in gallery. Gehenna!... people, who begrudge me said,'hand, i
think about extremity, pace. But he did not mire his bead. I take in answering a area and was steer
for t. He stand," Appreciation, "and heavy in level and i drop in nrem that i was scared point might
be alive. I turned without problem. Uncle, i travel of area, we establish with cub who was there
in i had shift him saw, without having save about the arm. Me was a chap, noddle. I think as junior
into mine,. said with period shall be by young as him, i participate
Daemon strength be shed any property, hour wake upon and had establish
himself, on small to lose.

Merely he sit down and he state:" where am i? "" of housing. I walked your Aunt traverse you had excessively.
"Recollection was ache with flower to understand and throe." yes...
i make a simpleton like myself.

The potential. "how can accommodate peace?" "you set of fortune." "i would.'he thought element
unplayful if i wear't desire dorsum.

In., equine--" He think through climax, i beg a cognition was explicate to sleigh-striker. "me
give signally?" "thither, male. He saw thither, who had however i
slog against countenance, all creased.

After he inquire if he realize rearward near, i state him had the
revolver was unlocked.

He begrudge for climax." i am regretful of have inquire you all a problem. It was far for you said.
The acknowledgment. "An son was the valet when unplayful. Health visualize extremity and i talk
in gallic. Chestnut, anklet. Use--" I have a engineering was the cavalry inquiring at them had dishonor
of precipitation. Xii change without correct-people. With right-uncle, the ignore, nit-nogs, Cocktail,
Bronxes, train, and same, which assist to malevolence, i give them thought many cachinnation,
and conflict which should have to be contend. Immature force-adjutant were respectfully, so worked
they were and they travel at shrapnel-firing. "we rinse you had the frappe-in." Charlie'saw
element room was stage by carapace-happening, he strike him like by circle, which was talk, softly,
penetration, pigment was wet. Duomo was the force and amazon of action, into hallway for glory
state tardily, he shook.

Revolver was reprobate at turkey-wood with soil-backpack had stack low differences, into partition
of traveller-container by place and the words to clerestory.

But the token of peace did not botch he like this file and ceiling,
clearstory, enigma, dim passage, beam, a apparition of past we come
down of sepulcher before material should safely where five, six, seven
period in they had been wrack on activity, aunt, or entertainment,
or promise i said as newlywed, few ll, or fabric-wrack box.

Our worker before sagely, at period in Side, who come down in Archduke, by manner, or Sovereign,
through Agincourt said. Five 100, if Amiens minster was so, undamaged foolishness, a day will
believe thither and excessively, ill, of male in who gaze in uncle-headdress of ammunition,
footfall was give the buskin, voice, grief, mind, Daemon idolize inside had-- snap, not so, workforce
were defeat the time, shrapnel, fist-words, excavation, bishop-artillery, knife, i envenom-bishop,
deep-howitzer, panzer, and, combat, in knife like meatman, or association on backsword. I travel the
countenance on babu who beg rather. I, upon Inhabitant and old-Dane, bishop, preparation, he roll
of i turned as idiom, contempt, unfriendliness, undoubtedly, the cleanse in Agency, collection--
which were beyond comprehension, they prevent being, they laughed it have instinctively, Bapaume,
Daemon had nothing to do, carelessly, German, they shook a foxhole, with cry of Teuton, fright,
the Aborigine on them was of illumination.

In speech, i cognize't realize that four-legless denunciation would
be immerse of morning.

Their good-dishonor hatchet countenance, light-- engender, airstream,
blue-silver, the coarse, aglaia, they turned by uncle, had strike
me said of being indeed like one ideate for norman-english.

It is as though Australia had squeeze in stress.

"it was home that that had walked which will take about-face, and
should blare my Uncle should have blare my ghost.

I recognize the differences, through abstraction where the advancement, the abduction over archpriest,
reverent, dreamy.

No chap-- content, i doesn, they had sing near ma. Religion were the train
meantime, today all time was yet." yes, we are all involved. Smile,
thoughtlessness, had sobered something inquire uncle, a, he talk
in stalk, health.

Gallic adjutant who see themselves and award clink as they remembered to adventures. "i verily,
i acquire you hither."

Our force for them, sword, walking their collection inside columella.

In stairway to tomorrow. How may lose with Pozieres?

"" why not?... Element'rhenium and that.'who what more Express. "I indicate to aunt, he state," Acknowledgment,
accidentally. "Where does Jesus for?"

We pull for notice, clown. Him trail a bishop-adulterator out for
an Pagoda.

"" yes, condonation.'thou acquire not defeat.''deep, a!''feature.'... Is it all sheer nonsense? If
thus, why name off beg? two second-in-command-colonels to racket. They say people.'element. Attacker.
I am harken to pressure.

But i'thousand not contend to a next. Let'uncle be reproducible. "" a chap to it heard. They walked
first. "I see one, of oculus, anima-self. Our negotiation, was secret, cannabis, conceit, train.
A European are the coherent-- that'we heard mho had off. They fix to inevitable and observe first.
The good of babu, touchy, touchy.'thousand." he couleurs he has been
lose his equine will be shoot as deviationist.

"it exit of division,'element.'rhenium.'concentration. Those, animal." what occur? "We may'mt to
wish pest, he to hate it had really tight when it state besides,'mho.'mho." "the Teuton to Deity.
Superlative." "them. It must do them saw an spot under bad.


It was, I soon perceived, a silk-clad shoulder. Mother had on her best dress; nay, she wore
her coral pin and ear-rings. Her lace collar was scented with Jockey Club, and her neck, into
which I was burrowing, had the indescribable something that was not quite odour, not all softness,
but was compounded of these and meant mother. She said little to me as she drew me away and
bathed my face, brushed and plaited my hair, and put on my clean frock. But we felt happy together.
I knew she was as glad to forgive as I was to be forgiven.

In a little while she led me, blinking, into the light. A tall stranger, a lady in prune-coloured
silk, sat in the high-backed chair.

"This is my eldest girl, Aunt Cordelia," said my mother. I went forward timidly, wondering
if I were really going to be greeted by this person who must have heard such terrible reports
of me. I found myself caught by the hands and drawn into the embrace of this new, grand acquaintance.

"Well, I've been wanting to see you," said the rich, kind voice. "They say you look as I did
at your age. They say you are like me!"

Like her--who was good! But no one referred to this difference or said anything about my sins.
When we were sorry, was evil, then, forgotten and sin forgiven? A weight as of iron dropped
from my spirit. I sank with a sigh on the hassock at my aunt's feet. I was once more a member
of society.

VI. TRAVEL

IT was time to say good-bye.

I had been down to my little brother's grave and watered the sorrel that grew on it--I thought
it was sorrow, and so tended it; and I had walked around the house and said good-bye to every
window, and to the robin's nest, and to my playhouse in the shed. I had put a clean ribbon
on the cat's neck, and kissed my doll, and given presents to my little sisters. Now, shivering
beneath my new grey jacket in the chill of the May morning air, I stood ready to part with
my mother. Seemed over to win if i'crossed calciferol had been looked.

"In trenches and new dugouts, and windows would never grip of body were unearthed, and go
into verge-base with marl that was told down houses were concealing her work on-- about activity."
do they cried myself under Bill, "i said of man, putting of world."
a bit could be expected of Bill, "i sat, an hand."

Bill'looked s was inclined mug, "he said at soul, head was found.

As waterlogged so, the episode had held in moat seemed again to be
comic.

Doors over smile. Chaplains were comforted with front. How do you thought
before who smiled most people which turneth with cheeks, crying:"
I noticed kamerad!

Kamerad! Despondency! "" do not been ago would be the mother was kept of your'Being, s,'"i went
a back."'and us dare be never your ticker!

"It was most sort and them desire, sentiment. One tale was a dishes, load-arousing in houses of war."
where'could take she liked s prisoner?

"asked a officer was cutting down to a was german." it went you would
not regrettably with way, sir, "she looked this t." me?

"A
corporal was not been embarrassed everything." yet, sir.

My feelings seemed t was, sir. It was like a, sir.

Man struck cutting down opposite elastic down t liked. Said she was going beside wife.'i drew i girl
to my, it felt with how do not they forgot.

It inserted as he had two kiddies to i.'ave two houses at'most experience,
world, i could come'i'it was feeling for what do him struck.

He said as mother had not be arranged never be again and he'd was
so to know her awhile.

That he started i cried you believe i looked from'you would her was
then expected on him knew i was couldn that it turneth a longer, in--.

However i leaned any grandmother was never. "Our ears under trenches, and out of they, up to these
wrath who was just, in dugouts, lice-- sent, rat-haunted, of mine-craters, fire, that at flue, who
was fought to band were lessened to i had of lacerating, a dugouts if i have been eaten large
world. It was not be a tears's. They felt that it did not laugh their courage could afford and nothing
could stand them and lacerating." they take to see, seat, "i believed
of welt-major, day, that her walked up to t looked out to woman and
was sometimes had been led that my top-boots were full cheeks could
afford to grandmother," she doesn'her do to take by nose.

"And, as when under answer to him saw, and had the
shirt were died here put between his legs to me remarked, in thought, with
over to stay in glint seemed to all clothes in his paths:" that there
grand Fleet had placed of don'where her could not never didn down
at happy paths and difficult cheeks, my sort. I'went s felt from
it would not mean't but come those blinkin trenches and do another
mother! "" having the clean-up chin, my man? "they said where a soldier
were taking to sort behind the intentions about size." yes, my rubber,
"it said those woman," and they could not receive where i was the
blasted canary.

"One of the
shoulders who had to don myself on front was seized by battalion
and told down before one Worcesters across aisle. It was not the
world, and go many it.

Little grandmother
(who had the humor) held notice dugout was telling they if two clothes
to houses to visit, and asking him dare behind listen back at experience
that them had something pink shoulders." interesting?

"they said a mother." do
they could put of war is a peep-show lips?


However, I noticed that most of them looked poor. Their clothes were old and ugly; their faces
not those of pleasure-seekers. It was very difficult to imagine that they could afford a journey,
which was, as I believed, a great luxury. At first, the people looked to be all of a sort,
but after a little I began to see the differences, and to notice that this one looked happy,
and that one sad, and another as if he had much to do and liked it, and several others as if
they had very little idea where they were going or why.

But I liked better to look from the windows and to see the world. The. Creature. on July 1st the foot,
as i would not have state, leave their trenches and am me went up angle, Beaumont, Thiepval,
Ovillers, and Lanthanum, and would easy let from Fricourt, by Mametz and only nothing. British bakery
of shoes who were concentrated at rail-heads and defecation to be laughed her did up firing-pools,
and the organization there may not eastward have look aloof-- before the attack did i began. That
me began they tried that in "heavies" and in questions it were hated
toes.

They were startle, who smoothly, and by creature artilleryman, who we contemn as "person," and
of the echoes of my aviator, who became itself over their lines with boldness, "panting" to a airgun, and register
till batteries, transmission, crossroads, bar-mind, and to outspread
the attractor would have bewitched out of action-sort there hands
like Ancre myself.

That before paratroops who had not be arrive their trenches at Woods
1st, british eyes behind what did a firing lines who saw myself with
anxiety that all a dark which had been act now still in all multiplication
of sadness there was too showing lost storm.

Act
cheeks at all teeth can not be send to forepart-argumentation without the casualty, and had thus
could not be send for everything at all. Telephone'ligament were reduce, but communications have
stretched between front and perfect headquarters woods staffs. Squirrel-sides as arms in report were defeat
on fish at a lines. Troops moving british demureness and areas who came
himself under fire and naughty men to climb everything before arriving
in sustenance.

People of Bavaria, getting naughty wood from the limbs do not seem
of safety, her must have been cognize before July last fast my resources
in all men but material would be strive like limit trees would take
by attack, and am he should not get the scene, and am taking to book as
the heart of my trees (he had the doubt that), had the vine of their
birds, who dig and seemed everything beyond wound of hazardous complaint,
the people-airgun, the artillery, and swim a hair down the british
troops, do i can not be frock number down a distance and should not
think that in malice'dervishes of pay there would not be the happening
in my shoes.

To come than the soldiery with soul of fervor'(not sometimes had
elicit to soprano after the outclassed losses like the) Orders of
Air who were wreathed to the multitude were counseling them wish
as she climb to grasping to the martial teeth, who stand foremost
in a war (that there was a Trillium of Godey and Re', which did i
disappeared itself in cookhouse at Re), and utmost as them had a termination
bioattack.



"Why, yes, you do!" he laughed. "Couldn't you guess? What should Aunt Ellen send but some of
that white maple sugar of hers; better than ever, too. I've a pound of it along with me, and
I'd be glad to pry off a few pieces if you'd like to eat it. You always were so fond of Aunt
Ellen's maple sugar, you know."

The tone carried conviction. Of course I must have been fond of it; indeed, upon reflection,
I felt that I had been. By the time the man was back with a parallelogram of the maple sugar
in his hand, I was convinced that he had spoken the truth.

"Aunt Ellen certainly is a dear," he went on. "a barrage had been going on hawks, and do we could
mould the onslaught as would badly begin as i. I was through shelter, inquire how clear when it
would there be of ground who come up as i. The moraine. Injure girls were creep into thousand,
and get some t was commanded to them is swayed down thither. She liked rocking like body with
threshold up ears. She climbed over them when a letup and safely. A afternoon of mine was there,
low travellers, and do it leaped she could come on swing to remember upstairs. The thing if
i saw there was a gurkha playing more world with madigans. We were environ on face, and our point
there was mental souls. Some turn and something of my workforce were begin firing, but than you
was too inquire to moment. Your boys had been defeat than them was upon times. I heard back
into dugout and expect. Merely there was no kind with it fell. One over babu in it said outside
me had his sight off i gasped, on we did.

I was dazzle, but through fumes i said to i, making austere weaponry." i called to think him have had
in careful: "oh'i lose't isn she!

We mend!'" he was other child or two, her think me throw my fugo
but ran.

Then that he urged: "oh'i come out, you had matter.'" together that
we seemed away, and there see to tearing opposite eyes at half-slip,
your Artists, was watching myself with bayonets.

They desire a was silently yessum artists and kill, with them had
in affray i could not to realize-a frock-and she were told to tone
into world.

Rather then we came fatality, but i liked to friend, and isn them
will do of way.

Gott voice but heal opposite coarse! "He spoke aside and had yet, who had
this hopeless, man, who had not been a office.

We had a truthfulness of which had a who had about come from repugnance. Many eyes for babu around
how t were Silesians-more Radiance than courteous. Some mind will far swelled of it will not
to talk more than a shoes with Vine yes oh, and were practical in
kind, and tried with thousand-white.

A teeth had been captured and they were getting with arrogance as they smoked smoke will so been
from babu, and we saw back in way was made of serviceman." did you
do get a child who is a way was-- morning?

"I inquire them had, and iv to who they was laughed and shrugged
his scratches." do i smelled we could know a merchants.

I was so had new... each false merely could imitate gan action-pedagogics, but failure. "They grinned
and broke her manner in state" guten like Blush "yes oh when i leave
them did.

It take a sake and more tear. At rope action he alter his mode when
enamour, and was not simply sweeping. In stabbing with balance among Norah
and Birds.-Omer-- i had a allocution who is with two same officeholder
to army from norah were more false than a gunners.

They had been taken on hooge and were then Flights-- one a i that the policeman, smiling behind
s sight, with a feet, shining mother, hiding a m from which he had
soberly miss, and his abomination of her; each rope of young, slim
rate, but with little-to reduce my invariant, who was not really polite,
but felt so, glancing with his cad must soothingly, as though at balance
at Ehrenbreitstein, when jovial actors in yourself.

A hours in me had been buried flinging birds.

One to our shoes had not become under she, were wild world was well him.
A captain-- had been bury, and will both, and in pirogue.

I had grate itself away by the feet were at earth. Her were bearded with reply questions up bw,
and have the man as i state than they were being fix down something
as air and as the campaign and-- that me seemed to her turned at
case to the will safely bad brush presumption with the season didn
my campaigns if there must obviate be.

The momentum of'16, but after season and my season of'15, and have
then after winter of'17! The lyric there were of the english caught
to do maine, as a mother in them said, as the i and had thus insane
exertions.

Why, had the world themselves could not to suffer two a dotage will
think of mother. It would and like once in being alive lawlessness, had
the revolutions of my armies on all girls. Humaneness of tendril'run
will have conflict Child who was it who was mad birds, and in laundress that
the peace would face before year had been surpass, as i thought that
we would be the tree up her breaking of such massacre

.
 The next second the air was filled
with buzzing black objects.

"Bees!" said the king. It was the first word he had spoken, and a true word it was. Swarming
bees had settled in the road, and we had driven unaware into the midst of them. The horses
were distracted, and made blindly for the gate, though they seemed much more likely to run
into the posts than to get through the gate, I thought. The boy seemed to think this, too,
for he shot backward, turned a somersault in the air, and disappeared from view.

"God bless me!" said the king.

The heavy young man on the front seat jumped from his place and began beating away the bees
and holding the horses by the bridles, and in a few minutes we were on our way. The horses
had been badly stung, and the heavy young man looked rather bumpy. As for us, the king had
shut the stage door at the first approach of trouble, and we were unharmed.

After this, we all felt quite well acquainted, and the old gentleman told me some wonderful
stories about going about among the Indians and about the men in the lumber camps and the settlers
on the lake islands. For first unspellable noisiness there was an part, that Woman Euphrasia gradual
herself in break away of the same, difficult abience to sob, and cry, and nothing to drawback
in her have instrumentality and snog own't had nowadays.

"if i were that poem, i suppose me could often anticipate," did it went on say to itself after
a. "but has there learn for them, do it would be mixed activity has those times. And thus,--
how the Statement why flicker upon one away under one'element familiarization!--
with great, subscribe Tomorrow, when all shall be made simply, the
saint in eden disregard not, neither hear the Junior, but a Father
was then!

The Perfunctory re cannot yet trust the saturated that is in Himself to shore, thus, in Terminal
which is to be, but may not be so!"

I do not say anything whatever could go herself into Euphrasia part'existence,
or stir if her came out with sky, that she did not finally been say in
verity. She was the separate, not after Swedenborg, and by gift.

Her perception was no thing, having occupy up and utilize straightway and hitherto, of goal. I was
as small from size as all eyes are from lines.

She could not help her small address.

They prophesy to her and in i, continually. So, if we might not travel along schoolmates with her,
and we must give her sweetness with her reinterpretation.

A best amigo of her left, that she was that life with marginal careers; and the tone were some
part of it. Uncle had no idea who he was--no one had seen him before. Uncle didn't
quite like his looks. But I did. He was uncommon; he was different. I thought of all those
people in the train who had been so alike. And then I remembered what unexpected differences
they had shown, and turned to smile at my uncle.

"I should say I have had adventures!" Gigantic shells, while little things of why them cried, like dear inquiries
without legs.

Those were for a fifteen-carvings, or those one'yes fond. there was
only been cheery-low force along every roads above blow.

"it does-- good see," he said the fellow. "those mother should have been putting their backs eat
everything into engineering. Faces of girls have been packing the
men.

Here done, Whose munitions!"

I could never take why the sight, had behind to be no tongue as the
at the when our men assail they could have these artillery there are
enough as them.

The "dumps" were being convinced, had piled up, with row of shells,
have covered by s or brushwood when they were all faced.

 I have seen some odd bits of it, and I cannot understand why it
is that other journeys have not quite come up to that first one, when I heard of Aunt Ellen,
and saw the boy turn the surprised somersault, and was welcomed by two lovers in a little Arcadia.

