This was simple and clear, and yet, with cruel inconsistency, whenever he escaped from this
nightmare it was to suffer and cry out at the vision of Ona starving. They had put him in jail,
and they would keep him here a long time, years maybe. And Ona would surely not go to work
again, broken and crushed as she was. And Elzbieta and Marija, too, might lose their places--if
that hell fiend Connor chose to set to work to ruin them, they would all be turned out. And
even if he did not, they could not live--even if the boys left school again, they could surely
not pay all the bills without him and Ona. They had only a few dollars now--they had just paid
the rent of the house a week ago, and that after it was two weeks overdue. So it would be due
again in a week! They would have no money to pay it then--and they would lose the house, after
all their long, heartbreaking struggle. Three times now the agent had warned him that he would
not tolerate another delay. Perhaps it was very base of Jurgis to be thinking about the house
when he had the other unspeakable thing to fill his mind; yet, how much he had suffered for
this house, how much they had all of them suffered! It was their one hope of respite, as long
as they lived; they had put all their money into it--and they were working people, poor people,
whose money was their strength, the very substance of them, body and soul, the thing by which
they lived and for lack of which they died.

And they would lose it all; they would be turned out into the streets, and have to hide in
some icy garret, and live or die as best they could! Jurgis had all the night--and all of many
more nights--to think about this, and he saw the thing in its details; he lived it all, as
if he were there. They would sell their furniture, and then run into debt at the stores, and
then be refused credit; they would borrow a little from the Szedvilases, whose delicatessen
store was tottering on the brink of ruin; the neighbors would come and help them a little--poor,
sick Jadvyga would bring a few spare pennies, as she always did when people were starving,
and Tamoszius Kuszleika would bring them the proceeds of a night's fiddling. So they would
struggle to hang on until he got out of jail--or would they know that he was in jail, would
they be able to find out anything about him? Would they be allowed to see him--or was it to
be part of his punishment to be kept in ignorance about their fate?

His mind would hang upon the worst possibilities; he saw Ona ill and tortured, Marija out of
her place, little Stanislovas unable to get to work for the snow, the whole family turned out
on the street. God Almighty! would they actually let them lie down in the street and die? Would
there be no help even then--would they wander about in the snow till they froze? Jurgis had
never seen any dead bodies in the streets, but he had seen people evicted and disappear, no
one knew where; and though the city had a relief bureau, though there was a charity organization
society in the stockyards district, in all his life there he had never heard of either of them.
They did not advertise their activities, having more calls than they could attend to without that.

--So on until morning. Then he had another ride in the patrol wagon, along with the drunken
wife-beater and the maniac, several "plain drunks" and "saloon fighters," a burglar, and two
men who had been arrested for stealing meat from the packing houses. Along with them he was
driven into a large, white-walled room, stale-smelling and crowded. In front, upon a raised
platform behind a rail, sat a stout, florid-faced personage, with a nose broken out in purple
blotches.

Our friend realized vaguely that he was about to be tried. He wondered what for--whether or
not his victim might be dead, and if so, what they would do with him. Hang him, perhaps, or
beat him to death--nothing would have surprised Jurgis, who knew little of the laws. Yet he
had picked up gossip enough to have it occur to him that the loud-voiced man upon the bench
might be the notorious Justice Callahan, about whom the people of Packingtown spoke with bated
breath.

"Pat" Callahan--"Growler" Pat, as he had been known before he ascended the bench--had begun
life as a butcher boy and a bruiser of local reputation; he had gone into politics almost as
soon as he had learned to talk, and had held two offices at once before he was old enough to
vote. If Scully was the thumb, Pat Callahan was the first finger of the unseen hand whereby
the packers held down the people of the district. No politician in Chicago ranked higher in
their confidence; he had been at it a long time--had been the business agent in the city council
of old Durham, the self-made merchant, way back in the early days, when the whole city of Chicago
had been up at auction. "Growler" Pat had given up holding city offices very early in his career--caring
only for party power, and giving the rest of his time to superintending his dives and brothels.
Of late years, however, since his children were growing up, he had begun to value respectability,
and had had himself made a magistrate; a position for which he was admirably fitted, because
of his strong conservatism and his contempt for "foreigners."

Jurgis sat gazing about the room for an hour or two; he was in hopes that some one of the family
would come, but in this he was disappointed. Finally, he was led before the bar, and a lawyer
for the company appeared against him. Connor was under the doctor's care, the lawyer explained
briefly, and if his Honor would hold the prisoner for a week--"Three hundred dollars," said
his Honor, promptly.

Jurgis was staring from the judge to the lawyer in perplexity. "Have you any one to go on your
bond?" demanded the judge, and then a clerk who stood at Jurgis' elbow explained to him what
this meant. The latter shook his head, and before he realized what had happened the policemen
were leading him away again. They took him to a room where other prisoners were waiting and
here he stayed until court adjourned, when he had another long and bitterly cold ride in a
patrol wagon to the county jail, which is on the north side of the city, and nine or ten miles
from the stockyards.

Here they searched Jurgis, leaving him only his money, which consisted of fifteen cents. Then
they led him to a room and told him to strip for a bath; after which he had to walk down a
long gallery, past the grated cell doors of the inmates of the jail. This was a great event
to the latter--the daily review of the new arrivals, all stark naked, and many and diverting
were the comments. Jurgis was required to stay in the bath longer than any one, in the vain
hope of getting out of him a few of his phosphates and acids. The prisoners roomed two in a
cell, but that day there was one left over, and he was the one.

The cells were in tiers, opening upon galleries. His cell was about five feet by seven in size,
with a stone floor and a heavy wooden bench built into it. There was no window--the only light
came from windows near the roof at one end of the court outside. There were two bunks, one
above the other, each with a straw mattress and a pair of gray blankets--the latter stiff as
boards with filth, and alive with fleas, bedbugs, and lice. When Jurgis lifted up the mattress
he discovered beneath it a layer of scurrying roaches, almost as badly frightened as himself.

Here they brought him more "duffers and dope," with the addition of a bowl of soup. Many of
the prisoners had their meals brought in from a restaurant, but Jurgis had no money for that.
Some had books to read and cards to play, with candles to burn by night, but Jurgis was all
alone in darkness and silence. He could not sleep again; there was the same maddening procession
of thoughts that lashed him like whips upon his naked back. When night fell he was pacing up
and down his cell like a wild beast that breaks its teeth upon the bars of its cage. Now and
then in his frenzy he would fling himself against the walls of the place, beating his hands
upon them. They cut him and bruised him--they were cold and merciless as the men who had built
them.

In the distance there was a church-tower bell that tolled the hours one by one. When it came
to midnight Jurgis was lying upon the floor with his head in his arms, listening. Instead of
falling silent at the end, the bell broke into a sudden clangor. Jurgis raised his head; what
could that mean--a fire? God! Suppose there were to be a fire in this jail! But then he made
out a melody in the ringing; there were chimes. And they seemed to waken the city--all around,
far and near, there were bells, ringing wild music; for fully a minute Jurgis lay lost in wonder,
before, all at once, the meaning of it broke over him--that this was Christmas Eve!

Christmas Eve--he had forgotten it entirely! There was a breaking of floodgates, a whirl of
new memories and new griefs rushing into his mind. In far Lithuania they had celebrated Christmas;
and it came to him as if it had been yesterday--himself a little child, with his lost brother
and his dead father in the cabin--in the deep black forest, where the snow fell all day and
all night and buried them from the world. It was too far off for Santa Claus in Lithuania,
but it was not too far for peace and good will to men, for the wonder-bearing vision of the
Christ Child. And even in Packingtown they had not forgotten it--some gleam of it had never
failed to break their darkness. Last Christmas Eve and all Christmas Day Jurgis had toiled
on the killing beds, and Ona at wrapping hams, and still they had found strength enough to
take the children for a walk upon the avenue, to see the store windows all decorated with Christmas
trees and ablaze with electric lights. In one window there would be live geese, in another
marvels in sugar--pink and white canes big enough for ogres, and cakes with cherubs upon them;
in a third there would be rows of fat yellow turkeys, decorated with rosettes, and rabbits
and squirrels hanging; in a fourth would be a fairyland of toys--lovely dolls with pink dresses,
and woolly sheep and drums and soldier hats. Nor did they have to go without their share of
all this, either. The last time they had had a big basket with them and all their Christmas
marketing to do--a roast of pork and a cabbage and some rye bread, and a pair of mittens for
Ona, and a rubber doll that squeaked, and a little green cornucopia full of candy to be hung
from the gas jet and gazed at by half a dozen pairs of longing eyes.

Even half a year of the sausage machines and the fertilizer mill had not been able to kill
the thought of Christmas in them; there was a choking in Jurgis' throat as he recalled that
the very night Ona had not come home Teta Elzbieta had taken him aside and shown him an old
valentine that she had picked up in a paper store for three cents--dingy and shopworn, but
with bright colors, and figures of angels and doves. She had wiped all the specks off this,
and was going to set it on the mantel, where the children could see it. Great sobs shook Jurgis
at this memory--they would spend their Christmas in misery and despair, with him in prison
and Ona ill and their home in desolation. Ah, it was too cruel! Why at least had they not left
him alone--why, after they had shut him in jail, must they be ringing Christmas chimes in his ears!

But no, their bells were not ringing for him--their Christmas was not meant for him, they were
simply not counting him at all. He was of no consequence--he was flung aside, like a bit of
trash, the carcass of some animal. It was horrible, horrible! His wife might be dying, his
baby might be starving, his whole family might be perishing in the cold--and all the while
they were ringing their Christmas chimes! And the bitter mockery of it--all this was punishment
for him! They put him in a place where the snow could not beat in, where the cold could not
eat through his bones; they brought him food and drink--why, in the name of heaven, if they
must punish him, did they not put his family in jail and leave him outside--why could they
find no better way to punish him than to leave three weak women and six helpless children to
starve and freeze? That was their law, that was their justice!

Jurgis stood upright; trembling with passion, his hands clenched and his arms upraised, his
whole soul ablaze with hatred and defiance. Ten thousand curses upon them and their law! Their
justice--it was a lie, it was a lie, a hideous, brutal lie, a thing too black and hateful for
any world but a world of nightmares. It was a sham and a loathsome mockery. There was no justice,
there was no right, anywhere in it--it was only force, it was tyranny, the will and the power,
reckless and unrestrained! They had ground him beneath their heel, they had devoured all his
substance; they had murdered his old father, they had broken and wrecked his wife, they had
crushed and cowed his whole family; and now they were through with him, they had no further
use for him--and because he had interfered with them, had gotten in their way, this was what
they had done to him! They had put him behind bars, as if he had been a wild beast, a thing
without sense or reason, without rights, without affections, without feelings. Nay, they would
not even have treated a beast as they had treated him! Would any man in his senses have trapped
a wild thing in its lair, and left its young behind to die?

These midnight hours were fateful ones to Jurgis; in them was the beginning of his rebellion,
of his outlawry and his unbelief. He had no wit to trace back the social crime to its far sources--he
could not say that it was the thing men have called "the system" that was crushing him to the
earth that it was the packers, his masters, who had bought up the law of the land, and had
dealt out their brutal will to him from the seat of justice. He only knew that he was wronged,
and that the world had wronged him; that the law, that society, with all its powers, had declared
itself his foe. And every hour his soul grew blacker, every hour he dreamed new dreams of vengeance,
of defiance, of raging, frenzied hate.

So wrote a poet, to whom the world had dealt its justice--

           I know not whether Laws be right,
            Or whether Laws be wrong;
          All that we know who lie in gaol
            Is that the wall is strong.
          And they do well to hide their hell,
            For in it things are done
          That Son of God nor son of Man
            Ever should look upon!

Chapter 17

At seven o'clock the next morning Jurgis was let out to get water to wash his cell--a duty
which he performed faithfully, but which most of the prisoners were accustomed to shirk, until
their cells became so filthy that the guards interposed. Then he had more "duffers and dope,"
and afterward was allowed three hours for exercise, in a long, cement-walked court roofed with
glass. Here were all the inmates of the jail crowded together. At one side of the court was
a place for visitors, cut off by two heavy wire screens, a foot apart, so that nothing could
be passed in to the prisoners; here Jurgis watched anxiously, but there came no one to see him.

Soon after he went back to his cell, a keeper opened the door to let in another prisoner. He
was a dapper young fellow, with a light brown mustache and blue eyes, and a graceful figure.
He nodded to Jurgis, and then, as the keeper closed the door upon him, began gazing critically
about him.

"Well, pal," he said, as his glance encountered Jurgis again, "good morning."

"Good morning," said Jurgis.

"A rum go for Christmas, eh?" added the other.

Jurgis nodded.

The newcomer went to the bunks and inspected the blankets; he lifted up the mattress, and then
dropped it with an exclamation. "My God!" he said, "that's the worst yet."

He glanced at Jurgis again. "Looks as if it hadn't been slept in last night. Couldn't stand
it, eh?"

"I didn't want to sleep last night," said Jurgis.

"When did you come in?"

"Yesterday."

The other had another look around, and then wrinkled up his nose. "There's the devil of a stink
in here," he said, suddenly. "What is it?"

"It's me," said Jurgis.

"You?"

"Yes, me."

"Didn't they make you wash?"

"Yes, but this don't wash."

"What is it?"

"Fertilizer."

"Fertilizer! The deuce! What are you?"

"I work in the stockyards--at least I did until the other day. It's in my clothes."

"That's a new one on me," said the newcomer. "I thought I'd been up against 'em all. What are
you in for?"

"I hit my boss." "Oh--that's it. What did he do?"

"He--he treated me mean."

"I see. You're what's called an honest workingman!"

"What are you?" Jurgis asked.

"I?" The other laughed. "They say I'm a cracksman," he said.

"What's that?" asked Jurgis.

"Safes, and such things," answered the other.

"Oh," said Jurgis, wonderingly, and stated at the speaker in awe. "You mean you break into
them--you--you--"

"Yes," laughed the other, "that's what they say."

He did not look to be over twenty-two or three, though, as Jurgis found afterward, he was thirty.
He spoke like a man of education, like what the world calls a "gentleman."

"Is that what you're here for?" Jurgis inquired.

"No," was the answer. "I'm here for disorderly conduct. They were mad because they couldn't
get any evidence.

"What's your name?" the young fellow continued after a pause. "My name's Duane--Jack Duane.
I've more than a dozen, but that's my company one." He seated himself on the floor with his
back to the wall and his legs crossed, and went on talking easily; he soon put Jurgis on a
friendly footing--he was evidently a man of the world, used to getting on, and not too proud
to hold conversation with a mere laboring man. He drew Jurgis out, and heard all about his
life all but the one unmentionable thing; and then he told stories about his own life. He was
a great one for stories, not always of the choicest. Being sent to jail had apparently not
disturbed his cheerfulness; he had "done time" twice before, it seemed, and he took it all
with a frolic welcome. What with women and wine and the excitement of his vocation, a man could
afford to rest now and then.

Naturally, the aspect of prison life was changed for Jurgis by the arrival of a cell mate.
He could not turn his face to the wall and sulk, he had to speak when he was spoken to; nor
could he help being interested in the conversation of Duane--the first educated man with whom
he had ever talked. How could he help listening with wonder while the other told of midnight
ventures and perilous escapes, of feastings and orgies, of fortunes squandered in a night?
The young fellow had an amused contempt for Jurgis, as a sort of working mule; he, too, had
felt the world's injustice, but instead of bearing it patiently, he had struck back, and struck
hard. He was striking all the time--there was war between him and society. He was a genial
freebooter, living off the enemy, without fear or shame. He was not always victorious, but
then defeat did not mean annihilation, and need not break his spirit.

Withal he was a goodhearted fellow--too much so, it appeared. His story came out, not in the
first day, nor the second, but in the long hours that dragged by, in which they had nothing
to do but talk and nothing to talk of but themselves. Jack Duane was from the East; he was
a college-bred man--had been studying electrical engineering. Then his father had met with
misfortune in business and killed himself; and there had been his mother and a younger brother
and sister. Also, there was an invention of Duane's; Jurgis could not understand it clearly,
but it had to do with telegraphing, and it was a very important thing--there were fortunes
in it, millions upon millions of dollars. And Duane had been robbed of it by a great company,
and got tangled up in lawsuits and lost all his money. Then somebody had given him a tip on
a horse race, and he had tried to retrieve his fortune with another person's money, and had
to run away, and all the rest had come from that. The other asked him what had led him to safebreaking--to
Jurgis a wild and appalling occupation to think about. A man he had met, his cell mate had
replied--one thing leads to another. Didn't he ever wonder about his family, Jurgis asked.
Sometimes, the other answered, but not often--he didn't allow it. Thinking about it would make
it no better. This wasn't a world in which a man had any business with a family; sooner or
later Jurgis would find that out also, and give up the fight and shift for himself.

Jurgis was so transparently what he pretended to be that his cell mate was as open with him
as a child; it was pleasant to tell him adventures, he was so full of wonder and admiration,
he was so new to the ways of the country. Duane did not even bother to keep back names and
places--he told all his triumphs and his failures, his loves and his griefs. Also he introduced
Jurgis to many of the other prisoners, nearly half of whom he knew by name. The crowd had already
given Jurgis a name--they called him "he stinker." This was cruel, but they meant no harm by
it, and he took it with a goodnatured grin.

Our friend had caught now and then a whiff from the sewers over which he lived, but this was
the first time that he had ever been splashed by their filth. This jail was a Noah's ark of
the city's crime--there were murderers, "hold-up men" and burglars, embezzlers, counterfeiters
and forgers, bigamists, "shoplifters," "confidence men," petty thieves and pickpockets, gamblers
and procurers, brawlers, beggars, tramps and drunkards; they were black and white, old and
young, Americans and natives of every nation under the sun. There were hardened criminals and
innocent men too poor to give bail; old men, and boys literally not yet in their teens. They
were the drainage of the great festering ulcer of society; they were hideous to look upon,
sickening to talk to. All life had turned to rottenness and stench in them--love was a beastliness,
joy was a snare, and God was an imprecation. They strolled here and there about the courtyard,
and Jurgis listened to them. He was ignorant and they were wise; they had been everywhere and
tried everything. They could tell the whole hateful story of it, set forth the inner soul of
a city in which justice and honor, women's bodies and men's souls, were for sale in the marketplace,
and human beings writhed and fought and fell upon each other like wolves in a pit; in which
lusts were raging fires, and men were fuel, and humanity was festering and stewing and wallowing
in its own corruption. Into this wild-beast tangle these men had been born without their consent,
they had taken part in it because they could not help it; that they were in jail was no disgrace
to them, for the game had never been fair, the dice were loaded. They were swindlers and thieves
of pennies and dimes, and they had been trapped and put out of the way by the swindlers and
thieves of millions of dollars.

To most of this Jurgis tried not to listen. They frightened him with their savage mockery;
and all the while his heart was far away, where his loved ones were calling. Now and then in
the midst of it his thoughts would take flight; and then the tears would come into his eyes--and
he would be called back by the jeering laughter of his companions.

He spent a week in this company, and during all that time he had no word from his home. He
paid one of his fifteen cents for a postal card, and his companion wrote a note to the family,
telling them where he was and when he would be tried. There came no answer to it, however,
and at last, the day before New Year's, Jurgis bade good-by to Jack Duane. The latter gave
him his address, or rather the address of his mistress, and made Jurgis promise to look him
up. "Maybe I could help you out of a hole some day," he said, and added that he was sorry to
have him go. Jurgis rode in the patrol wagon back to Justice Callahan's court for trial.

One of the first things he made out as he entered the room was Teta Elzbieta and little Kotrina,
looking pale and frightened, seated far in the rear. His heart began to pound, but he did not
dare to try to signal to them, and neither did Elzbieta. He took his seat in the prisoners'
pen and sat gazing at them in helpless agony. He saw that Ona was not with them, and was full
of foreboding as to what that might mean. He spent half an hour brooding over this--and then
suddenly he straightened up and the blood rushed into his face. A man had come in--Jurgis could
not see his features for the bandages that swathed him, but he knew the burly figure. It was
Connor! A trembling seized him, and his limbs bent as if for a spring. Then suddenly he felt
a hand on his collar, and heard a voice behind him: "Sit down, you son of a--!"

He subsided, but he never took his eyes off his enemy. The fellow was still alive, which was
a disappointment, in one way; and yet it was pleasant to see him, all in penitential plasters.
He and the company lawyer, who was with him, came and took seats within the judge's railing;
and a minute later the clerk called Jurgis' name, and the policeman jerked him to his feet
and led him before the bar, gripping him tightly by the arm, lest he should spring upon the boss.

Jurgis listened while the man entered the witness chair, took the oath, and told his story.
The wife of the prisoner had been employed in a department near him, and had been discharged
for impudence to him. Half an hour later he had been violently attacked, knocked down, and
almost choked to death. He had brought witnesses--

"They will probably not be necessary," observed the judge and he turned to Jurgis. "You admit
attacking the plaintiff?" he asked.

"Him?" inquired Jurgis, pointing at the boss.

"Yes," said the judge. "I hit him, sir," said Jurgis.

"Say 'your Honor,'" said the officer, pinching his arm hard.

"Your Honor," said Jurgis, obediently.

"You tried to choke him?"

"Yes, sir, your Honor."

"Ever been arrested before?"

"No, sir, your Honor."

"What have you to say for yourself?"

Jurgis hesitated. What had he to say? In two years and a half he had learned to speak English
for practical purposes, but these had never included the statement that some one had intimidated
and seduced his wife. He tried once or twice, stammering and balking, to the annoyance of the
judge, who was gasping from the odor of fertilizer. Finally, the prisoner made it understood
that his vocabulary was inadequate, and there stepped up a dapper young man with waxed mustaches,
bidding him speak in any language he knew.

Jurgis began; supposing that he would be given time, he explained how the boss had taken advantage
of his wife's position to make advances to her and had threatened her with the loss of her
place. When the interpreter had translated this, the judge, whose calendar was crowded, and
whose automobile was ordered for a certain hour, interrupted with the remark: "Oh, I see. Well,
if he made love to your wife, why didn't she complain to the superintendent or leave the place?"

Jurgis hesitated, somewhat taken aback; he began to explain that they were very poor--that
work was hard to get--

"I see," said Justice Callahan; "so instead you thought you would knock him down." He turned
to the plaintiff, inquiring, "Is there any truth in this story, Mr. Connor?"

"Not a particle, your Honor," said the boss. "It is very unpleasant--they tell some such tale
every time you have to discharge a woman--"

"Yes, I know," said the judge. "I hear it often enough. The fellow seems to have handled you
pretty roughly. Thirty days and costs. Next case."

Jurgis had been listening in perplexity. It was only when the policeman who had him by the
arm turned and started to lead him away that he realized that sentence had been passed. He
gazed round him wildly. "Thirty days!" he panted and then he whirled upon the judge. "What
will my family do?" he cried frantically. "I have a wife and baby, sir, and they have no money--my
God, they will starve to death!"

"You would have done well to think about them before you committed the assault," said the judge
dryly, as he turned to look at the next prisoner.

Jurgis would have spoken again, but the policeman had seized him by the collar and was twisting
it, and a second policeman was making for him with evidently hostile intentions. So he let
them lead him away. Far down the room he saw Elzbieta and Kotrina, risen from their seats,
staring in fright; he made one effort to go to them, and then, brought back by another twist
at his throat, he bowed his head and gave up the struggle. They thrust him into a cell room,
where other prisoners were waiting; and as soon as court had adjourned they led him down with
them into the "Black Maria," and drove him away.

This time Jurgis was bound for the "Bridewell," a petty jail where Cook County prisoners serve
their time. It was even filthier and more crowded than the county jail; all the smaller fry
out of the latter had been sifted into it--the petty thieves and swindlers, the brawlers and
vagrants. For his cell mate Jurgis had an Italian fruit seller who had refused to pay his graft
to the policeman, and been arrested for carrying a large pocketknife; as he did not understand
a word of English our friend was glad when he left. He gave place to a Norwegian sailor, who
had lost half an ear in a drunken brawl, and who proved to be quarrelsome, cursing Jurgis because
he moved in his bunk and caused the roaches to drop upon the lower one. It would have been
quite intolerable, staying in a cell with this wild beast, but for the fact that all day long
the prisoners were put at work breaking stone.

Ten days of his thirty Jurgis spent thus, without hearing a word from his family; then one
day a keeper came and informed him that there was a visitor to see him. Jurgis turned white,
and so weak at the knees that he could hardly leave his cell.

The man led him down the corridor and a flight of steps to the visitors' room, which was barred
like a cell. Through the grating Jurgis could see some one sitting in a chair; and as he came
into the room the person started up, and he saw that it was little Stanislovas. At the sight
of some one from home the big fellow nearly went to pieces--he had to steady himself by a chair,
and he put his other hand to his forehead, as if to clear away a mist. "Well?" he said, weakly.

Little Stanislovas was also trembling, and all but too frightened to speak. "They--they sent
me to tell you--" he said, with a gulp.

"Well?" Jurgis repeated. He followed the boy's glance to where the keeper was standing watching
them. "Never mind that," Jurgis cried, wildly. "How are they?"

"Ona is very sick," Stanislovas said; "and we are almost starving. We can't get along; we thought
you might be able to help us."

Jurgis gripped the chair tighter; there were beads of perspiration on his forehead, and his
hand shook. "I--can't help you," he said.

"Ona lies in her room all day," the boy went on, breathlessly. "She won't eat anything, and
she cries all the time. She won't tell what is the matter and she won't go to work at all.
Then a long time ago the man came for the rent. He was very cross. He came again last week.
He said he would turn us out of the house. And then Marija--"

A sob choked Stanislovas, and he stopped. "What's the matter with Marija?" cried Jurgis.

"She's cut her hand!" said the boy. "She's cut it bad, this time, worse than before. She can't
work and it's all turning green, and the company doctor says she may--she may have to have
it cut off. And Marija cries all the time--her money is nearly all gone, too, and we can't
pay the rent and the interest on the house; and we have no coal and nothing more to eat, and
the man at the store, he says--"

The little fellow stopped again, beginning to whimper. "Go on!" the other panted in frenzy--"Go
on!"

"I--I will," sobbed Stanislovas. "It's so--so cold all the time. And last Sunday it snowed
again--a deep, deep snow--and I couldn't--couldn't get to work."

"God!" Jurgis half shouted, and he took a step toward the child. There was an old hatred between
them because of the snow--ever since that dreadful morning when the boy had had his fingers
frozen and Jurgis had had to beat him to send him to work. Now he clenched his hands, looking
as if he would try to break through the grating. "You little villain," he cried, "you didn't try!"

"I did--I did!" wailed Stanislovas, shrinking from him in terror. "I tried all day--two days.
Elzbieta was with me, and she couldn't either. We couldn't walk at all, it was so deep. And
we had nothing to eat, and oh, it was so cold! I tried, and then the third day Ona went with me--"

"Ona!"

"Yes. She tried to get to work, too. She had to. We were all starving. But she had lost her
place--"

Jurgis reeled, and gave a gasp. "She went back to that place?" he screamed. "She tried to,"
said Stanislovas, gazing at him in perplexity. "Why not, Jurgis?"

The man breathed hard, three or four times. "Go--on," he panted, finally.

"I went with her," said Stanislovas, "but Miss Henderson wouldn't take her back. And Connor
saw her and cursed her. He was still bandaged up--why did you hit him, Jurgis?" (There was
some fascinating mystery about this, the little fellow knew; but he could get no satisfaction.)

Jurgis could not speak; he could only stare, his eyes starting out. "She has been trying to
get other work," the boy went on; "but she's so weak she can't keep up. And my boss would not
take me back, either--Ona says he knows Connor, and that's the reason; they've all got a grudge
against us now. So I've got to go downtown and sell papers with the rest of the boys and Kotrina--"

"Kotrina!"

"Yes, she's been selling papers, too. She does best, because she's a girl. Only the cold is
so bad--it's terrible coming home at night, Jurgis. Sometimes they can't come home at all--I'm
going to try to find them tonight and sleep where they do, it's so late and it's such a long
ways home. I've had to walk, and I didn't know where it was--I don't know how to get back,
either. Only mother said I must come, because you would want to know, and maybe somebody would
help your family when they had put you in jail so you couldn't work. And I walked all day to
get here--and I only had a piece of bread for breakfast, Jurgis. Mother hasn't any work either,
because the sausage department is shut down; and she goes and begs at houses with a basket,
and people give her food. Only she didn't get much yesterday; it was too cold for her fingers,
and today she was crying--"

So little Stanislovas went on, sobbing as he talked; and Jurgis stood, gripping the table tightly,
saying not a word, but feeling that his head would burst; it was like having weights piled
upon him, one after another, crushing the life out of him. He struggled and fought within himself--as
if in some terrible nightmare, in which a man suffers an agony, and cannot lift his hand, nor
cry out, but feels that he is going mad, that his brain is on fire--

Just when it seemed to him that another turn of the screw would kill him, little Stanislovas
stopped. "You cannot help us?" he said weakly.

Jurgis shook his head.

"They won't give you anything here?"

He shook it again.

"When are you coming out?"

"Three weeks yet," Jurgis answered.

And the boy gazed around him uncertainly. "Then I might as well go," he said.

Jurgis nodded. Then, suddenly recollecting, he put his hand into his pocket and drew it out,
shaking. "Here," he said, holding out the fourteen cents. "Take this to them."

And Stanislovas took it, and after a little more hesitation, started for the door. "Good-by,
Jurgis," he said, and the other noticed that he walked unsteadily as he passed out of sight.

For a minute or so Jurgis stood clinging to his chair, reeling and swaying; then the keeper
touched him on the arm, and he turned and went back to breaking stone.

Chapter 18

Jurgis did not get out of the Bridewell quite as soon as he had expected. To his sentence there
were added "court costs" of a dollar and a half--he was supposed to pay for the trouble of
putting him in jail, and not having the money, was obliged to work it off by three days more
of toil. Nobody had taken the trouble to tell him this--only after counting the days and looking
forward to the end in an agony of impatience, when the hour came that he expected to be free
he found himself still set at the stone heap, and laughed at when he ventured to protest. Then
he concluded he must have counted wrong; but as another day passed, he gave up all hope--and
was sunk in the depths of despair, when one morning after breakfast a keeper came to him with
the word that his time was up at last. So he doffed his prison garb, and put on his old fertilizer
clothing, and heard the door of the prison clang behind him.

He stood upon the steps, bewildered; he could hardly believe that it was true,--that the sky
was above him again and the open street before him; that he was a free man. But then the cold
began to strike through his clothes, and he started quickly away.

There had been a heavy snow, and now a thaw had set in; fine sleety rain was falling, driven
by a wind that pierced Jurgis to the bone. He had not stopped for his-overcoat when he set
out to "do up" Connor, and so his rides in the patrol wagons had been cruel experiences; his
clothing was old and worn thin, and it never had been very warm. Now as he trudged on the rain
soon wet it through; there were six inches of watery slush on the sidewalks, so that his feet
would soon have been soaked, even had there been no holes in his shoes.

Jurgis had had enough to eat in the jail, and the work had been the least trying of any that
he had done since he came to Chicago; but even so, he had not grown strong--the fear and grief
that had preyed upon his mind had worn him thin. Now he shivered and shrunk from the rain,
hiding his hands in his pockets and hunching his shoulders together. The Bridewell grounds
were on the outskirts of the city and the country around them was unsettled and wild--on one
side was the big drainage canal, and on the other a maze of railroad tracks, and so the wind
had full sweep.

After walking a ways, Jurgis met a little ragamuffin whom he hailed: "Hey, sonny!" The boy
cocked one eye at him--he knew that Jurgis was a "jailbird" by his shaven head. "Wot yer want?"
he queried.

"How do you go to the stockyards?" Jurgis demanded.

"I don't go," replied the boy.

Jurgis hesitated a moment, nonplussed. Then he said, "I mean which is the way?"

"Why don't yer say so then?" was the response, and the boy pointed to the northwest, across
the tracks. "That way."

"How far is it?" Jurgis asked. "I dunno," said the other. "Mebbe twenty miles or so."

"Twenty miles!" Jurgis echoed, and his face fell. He had to walk every foot of it, for they
had turned him out of jail without a penny in his pockets.

Yet, when he once got started, and his blood had warmed with walking, he forgot everything
in the fever of his thoughts. All the dreadful imaginations that had haunted him in his cell
now rushed into his mind at once. The agony was almost over--he was going to find out; and
he clenched his hands in his pockets as he strode, following his flying desire, almost at a
run. Ona--the baby--the family--the house--he would know the truth about them all! And he was
coming to the rescue--he was free again! His hands were his own, and he could help them, he
could do battle for them against the world.

For an hour or so he walked thus, and then he began to look about him. He seemed to be leaving
the city altogether. The street was turning into a country road, leading out to the westward;
there were snow-covered fields on either side of him. Soon he met a farmer driving a two-horse
wagon loaded with straw, and he stopped him.

"Is this the way to the stockyards?" he asked.

The farmer scratched his head. "I dunno jest where they be," he said. "But they're in the city
somewhere, and you're going dead away from it now."

Jurgis looked dazed. "I was told this was the way," he said.

"Who told you?"

"A boy."

"Well, mebbe he was playing a joke on ye. The best thing ye kin do is to go back, and when
ye git into town ask a policeman. I'd take ye in, only I've come a long ways an' I'm loaded
heavy. Git up!"

So Jurgis turned and followed, and toward the end of the morning he began to see Chicago again.
Past endless blocks of two-story shanties he walked, along wooden sidewalks and unpaved pathways
treacherous with deep slush holes. Every few blocks there would be a railroad crossing on the
level with the sidewalk, a deathtrap for the unwary; long freight trains would be passing,
the cars clanking and crashing together, and Jurgis would pace about waiting, burning up with
a fever of impatience. Occasionally the cars would stop for some minutes, and wagons and streetcars
would crowd together waiting, the drivers swearing at each other, or hiding beneath umbrellas
out of the rain; at such times Jurgis would dodge under the gates and run across the tracks
and between the cars, taking his life into his hands.

He crossed a long bridge over a river frozen solid and covered with slush. Not even on the
river bank was the snow white--the rain which fell was a diluted solution of smoke, and Jurgis'
hands and face were streaked with black. Then he came into the business part of the city, where
the streets were sewers of inky blackness, with horses sleeping and plunging, and women and
children flying across in panic-stricken droves. These streets were huge canyons formed by
towering black buildings, echoing with the clang of car gongs and the shouts of drivers; the
people who swarmed in them were as busy as ants--all hurrying breathlessly, never stopping
to look at anything nor at each other. The solitary trampish-looking foreigner, with water-soaked
clothing and haggard face and anxious eyes, was as much alone as he hurried past them, as much
unheeded and as lost, as if he had been a thousand miles deep in a wilderness.

A policeman gave him his direction and told him that he had five miles to go. He came again
to the slum districts, to avenues of saloons and cheap stores, with long dingy red factory
buildings, and coalyards and railroad tracks; and then Jurgis lifted up his head and began
to sniff the air like a startled animal--scenting the far-off odor of home. It was late afternoon
then, and he was hungry, but the dinner invitations hung out of the saloons were not for him.

So he came at last to the stockyards, to the black volcanoes of smoke and the lowing cattle
and the stench. Then, seeing a crowded car, his impatience got the better of him and he jumped
aboard, hiding behind another man, unnoticed by the conductor. In ten minutes more he had reached
his street, and home.

He was half running as he came round the corner. There was the house, at any rate--and then
suddenly he stopped and stared. What was the matter with the house?

Jurgis looked twice, bewildered; then he glanced at the house next door and at the one beyond--then
at the saloon on the corner. Yes, it was the right place, quite certainly--he had not made
any mistake. But the house--the house was a different color!

He came a couple of steps nearer. Yes; it had been gray and now it was yellow! The trimmings
around the windows had been red, and now they were green! It was all newly painted! How strange
it made it seem!

Jurgis went closer yet, but keeping on the other side of the street. A sudden and horrible
spasm of fear had come over him. His knees were shaking beneath him, and his mind was in a
whirl. New paint on the house, and new weatherboards, where the old had begun to rot off, and
the agent had got after them! New shingles over the hole in the roof, too, the hole that had
for six months been the bane of his soul--he having no money to have it fixed and no time to
fix it himself, and the rain leaking in, and overflowing the pots and pans he put to catch
it, and flooding the attic and loosening the plaster. And now it was fixed! And the broken
windowpane replaced! And curtains in the windows! New, white curtains, stiff and shiny!

Then suddenly the front door opened. Jurgis stood, his chest heaving as he struggled to catch
his breath. A boy had come out, a stranger to him; a big, fat, rosy-cheeked youngster, such
as had never been seen in his home before.

Jurgis stared at the boy, fascinated. He came down the steps whistling, kicking off the snow.
He stopped at the foot, and picked up some, and then leaned against the railing, making a snowball.
A moment later he looked around and saw Jurgis, and their eyes met; it was a hostile glance,
the boy evidently thinking that the other had suspicions of the snowball. When Jurgis started
slowly across the street toward him, he gave a quick glance about, meditating retreat, but
then he concluded to stand his ground.

Jurgis took hold of the railing of the steps, for he was a little unsteady. "What--what are
you doing here?" he managed to gasp.

"Go on!" said the boy.

"You--" Jurgis tried again. "What do you want here?"

"Me?" answered the boy, angrily. "I live here."

"You live here!" Jurgis panted. He turned white and clung more tightly to the railing. "You
live here! Then where's my family?"

The boy looked surprised. "Your family!" he echoed.

And Jurgis started toward him. "I--this is my house!" he cried.

"Come off!" said the boy; then suddenly the door upstairs opened, and he called: "Hey, ma!
Here's a fellow says he owns this house."

A stout Irishwoman came to the top of the steps. "What's that?" she demanded.

Jurgis turned toward her. "Where is my family?" he cried, wildly. "I left them here! This is
my home! What are you doing in my home?"

The woman stared at him in frightened wonder, she must have thought she was dealing with a
maniac--Jurgis looked like one. "Your home!" she echoed.

"My home!" he half shrieked. "I lived here, I tell you."

"You must be mistaken," she answered him. "No one ever lived here. This is a new house. They
told us so. They--"

"What have they done with my family?" shouted Jurgis, frantically.

A light had begun to break upon the woman; perhaps she had had doubts of what "they" had told
her. "I don't know where your family is," she said. "I bought the house only three days ago,
and there was nobody here, and they told me it was all new. Do you really mean you had ever
rented it?"

"Rented it!" panted Jurgis. "I bought it! I paid for it! I own it! And they--my God, can't
you tell me where my people went?"

She made him understand at last that she knew nothing. Jurgis' brain was so confused that he
could not grasp the situation. It was as if his family had been wiped out of existence; as
if they were proving to be dream people, who never had existed at all. He was quite lost--but
then suddenly he thought of Grandmother Majauszkiene, who lived in the next block. She would
know! He turned and started at a run.

Grandmother Majauszkiene came to the door herself. She cried out when she saw Jurgis, wild-eyed
and shaking. Yes, yes, she could tell him. The family had moved; they had not been able to
pay the rent and they had been turned out into the snow, and the house had been repainted and
sold again the next week. No, she had not heard how they were, but she could tell him that
they had gone back to Aniele Jukniene, with whom they had stayed when they first came to the
yards. Wouldn't Jurgis come in and rest? It was certainly too bad--if only he had not got into
jail--

And so Jurgis turned and staggered away. He did not go very far round the corner he gave out
completely, and sat down on the steps of a saloon, and hid his face in his hands, and shook
all over with dry, racking sobs.

Their home! Their home! They had lost it! Grief, despair, rage, overwhelmed him--what was any
imagination of the thing to this heartbreaking, crushing reality of it--to the sight of strange
people living in his house, hanging their curtains to his windows, staring at him with hostile
eyes! It was monstrous, it was unthinkable--they could not do it--it could not be true! Only
think what he had suffered for that house--what miseries they had all suffered for it--the
price they had paid for it!

The whole long agony came back to him. Their sacrifices in the beginning, their three hundred
dollars that they had scraped together, all they owned in the world, all that stood between
them and starvation! And then their toil, month by month, to get together the twelve dollars,
and the interest as well, and now and then the taxes, and the other charges, and the repairs,
and what not! Why, they had put their very souls into their payments on that house, they had
paid for it with their sweat and tears--yes, more, with their very lifeblood. Dede Antanas
had died of the struggle to earn that money--he would have been alive and strong today if he
had not had to work in Durham's dark cellars to earn his share. And Ona, too, had given her
health and strength to pay for it--she was wrecked and ruined because of it; and so was he,
who had been a big, strong man three years ago, and now sat here shivering, broken, cowed,
weeping like a hysterical child. Ah! they had cast their all into the fight; and they had lost,
they had lost! All that they had paid was gone--every cent of it. And their house was gone--they
were back where they had started from, flung out into the cold to starve and freeze!

Jurgis could see all the truth now--could see himself, through the whole long course of events,
the victim of ravenous vultures that had torn into his vitals and devoured him; of fiends that
had racked and tortured him, mocking him, meantime, jeering in his face. Ah, God, the horror
of it, the monstrous, hideous, demoniacal wickedness of it! He and his family, helpless women
and children, struggling to live, ignorant and defenseless and forlorn as they were--and the
enemies that had been lurking for them, crouching upon their trail and thirsting for their
blood! That first lying circular, that smooth-tongued slippery agent! That trap of the extra
payments, the interest, and all the other charges that they had not the means to pay, and would
never have attempted to pay! And then all the tricks of the packers, their masters, the tyrants
who ruled them--the shutdowns and the scarcity of work, the irregular hours and the cruel speeding-up,
the lowering of wages, the raising of prices! The mercilessness of nature about them, of heat
and cold, rain and snow; the mercilessness of the city, of the country in which they lived,
of its laws and customs that they did not understand! All of these things had worked together
for the company that had marked them for its prey and was waiting for its chance. And now,
with this last hideous injustice, its time had come, and it had turned them out bag and baggage,
and taken their house and sold it again! And they could do nothing, they were tied hand and
foot--the law was against them, the whole machinery of society was at their oppressors' command!
If Jurgis so much as raised a hand against them, back he would go into that wild-beast pen
from which he had just escaped!

To get up and go away was to give up, to acknowledge defeat, to leave the strange family in
possession; and Jurgis might have sat shivering in the rain for hours before he could do that,
had it not been for the thought of his family. It might be that he had worse things yet to
learn--and so he got to his feet and started away, walking on, wearily, half-dazed.

To Aniele's house, in back of the yards, was a good two miles; the distance had never seemed
longer to Jurgis, and when he saw the familiar dingy-gray shanty his heart was beating fast.
He ran up the steps and began to hammer upon the door.

The old woman herself came to open it. She had shrunk all up with her rheumatism since Jurgis
had seen her last, and her yellow parchment face stared up at him from a little above the level
of the doorknob. She gave a start when she saw him. "Is Ona here?" he cried, breathlessly.

"Yes," was the answer, "she's here."

"How--" Jurgis began, and then stopped short, clutching convulsively at the side of the door.
From somewhere within the house had come a sudden cry, a wild, horrible scream of anguish.
And the voice was Ona's. For a moment Jurgis stood half-paralyzed with fright; then he bounded
past the old woman and into the room.

It was Aniele's kitchen, and huddled round the stove were half a dozen women, pale and frightened.
One of them started to her feet as Jurgis entered; she was haggard and frightfully thin, with
one arm tied up in bandages--he hardly realized that it was Marija. He looked first for Ona;
then, not seeing her, he stared at the women, expecting them to speak. But they sat dumb, gazing
back at him, panic-stricken; and a second later came another piercing scream.

It was from the rear of the house, and upstairs. Jurgis bounded to a door of the room and flung
it open; there was a ladder leading through a trap door to the garret, and he was at the foot
of it when suddenly he heard a voice behind him, and saw Marija at his heels. She seized him
by the sleeve with her good hand, panting wildly, "No, no, Jurgis! Stop!"

"What do you mean?" he gasped.

"You mustn't go up," she cried.

Jurgis was half-crazed with bewilderment and fright. "What's the matter?" he shouted. "What is it?"

Marija clung to him tightly; he could hear Ona sobbing and moaning above, and he fought to
get away and climb up, without waiting for her reply. "No, no," she rushed on. "Jurgis! You
mustn't go up! It's--it's the child!"

"The child?" he echoed in perplexity. "Antanas?"

Marija answered him, in a whisper: "The new one!"

And then Jurgis went limp, and caught himself on the ladder. He stared at her as if she were
a ghost. "The new one!" he gasped. "But it isn't time," he added, wildly.

Marija nodded. "I know," she said; "but it's come."

And then again came Ona's scream, smiting him like a blow in the face, making him wince and
turn white. Her voice died away into a wail--then he heard her sobbing again, "My God--let
me die, let me die!" And Marija hung her arms about him, crying: "Come out! Come away!"

She dragged him back into the kitchen, half carrying him, for he had gone all to pieces. It
was as if the pillars of his soul had fallen in--he was blasted with horror. In the room he
sank into a chair, trembling like a leaf, Marija still holding him, and the women staring at
him in dumb, helpless fright.

And then again Ona cried out; he could hear it nearly as plainly here, and he staggered to
his feet. "How long has this been going on?" he panted.

"Not very long," Marija answered, and then, at a signal from Aniele, she rushed on: "You go
away, Jurgis you can't help--go away and come back later. It's all right--it's--"

"Who's with her?" Jurgis demanded; and then, seeing Marija hesitating, he cried again, "Who's
with her?"

"She's--she's all right," she answered. "Elzbieta's with her."

"But the doctor!" he panted. "Some one who knows!"

He seized Marija by the arm; she trembled, and her voice sank beneath a whisper as she replied,
"We--we have no money." Then, frightened at the look on his face, she exclaimed: "It's all
right, Jurgis! You don't understand--go away--go away! Ah, if you only had waited!"

Above her protests Jurgis heard Ona again; he was almost out of his mind. It was all new to
him, raw and horrible--it had fallen upon him like a lightning stroke. When little Antanas
was born he had been at work, and had known nothing about it until it was over; and now he
was not to be controlled. The frightened women were at their wits' end; one after another they
tried to reason with him, to make him understand that this was the lot of woman. In the end
they half drove him out into the rain, where he began to pace up and down, bareheaded and frantic.
Because he could hear Ona from the street, he would first go away to escape the sounds, and
then come back because he could not help it. At the end of a quarter of an hour he rushed up
the steps again, and for fear that he would break in the door they had to open it and let him in.

There was no arguing with him. They could not tell him that all was going well--how could they
know, he cried--why, she was dying, she was being torn to pieces! Listen to her--listen! Why,
it was monstrous--it could not be allowed--there must be some help for it! Had they tried to
get a doctor? They might pay him afterward--they could promise--

"We couldn't promise, Jurgis," protested Marija. "We had no money--we have scarcely been able
to keep alive."

"But I can work," Jurgis exclaimed. "I can earn money!"

"Yes," she answered--"but we thought you were in jail. How could we know when you would return?
They will not work for nothing."

Marija went on to tell how she had tried to find a midwife, and how they had demanded ten,
fifteen, even twenty-five dollars, and that in cash. "And I had only a quarter," she said.
"I have spent every cent of my money--all that I had in the bank; and I owe the doctor who
has been coming to see me, and he has stopped because he thinks I don't mean to pay him. And
we owe Aniele for two weeks' rent, and she is nearly starving, and is afraid of being turned
out. We have been borrowing and begging to keep alive, and there is nothing more we can do--"

"And the children?" cried Jurgis.

"The children have not been home for three days, the weather has been so bad. They could not
know what is happening--it came suddenly, two months before we expected it."

Jurgis was standing by the table, and he caught himself with his hand; his head sank and his
arms shook--it looked as if he were going to collapse. Then suddenly Aniele got up and came
hobbling toward him, fumbling in her skirt pocket. She drew out a dirty rag, in one corner
of which she had something tied.

"Here, Jurgis!" she said, "I have some money. Palauk! See!"

She unwrapped it and counted it out--thirty-four cents. "You go, now," she said, "and try and
get somebody yourself. And maybe the rest can help--give him some money, you; he will pay you
back some day, and it will do him good to have something to think about, even if he doesn't
succeed. When he comes back, maybe it will be over."

And so the other women turned out the contents of their pocketbooks; most of them had only
pennies and nickels, but they gave him all. Mrs. Olszewski, who lived next door, and had a
husband who was a skilled cattle butcher, but a drinking man, gave nearly half a dollar, enough
to raise the whole sum to a dollar and a quarter. Then Jurgis thrust it into his pocket, still
holding it tightly in his fist, and started away at a run.

Chapter 19

"Madame Haupt Hebamme", ran a sign, swinging from a second-story window over a saloon on the
avenue; at a side door was another sign, with a hand pointing up a dingy flight of stairs.
Jurgis went up them, three at a time.

Madame Haupt was frying pork and onions, and had her door half open to let out the smoke. When
he tried to knock upon it, it swung open the rest of the way, and he had a glimpse of her,
with a black bottle turned up to her lips. Then he knocked louder, and she started and put
it away. She was a Dutchwoman, enormously fat--when she walked she rolled like a small boat
on the ocean, and the dishes in the cupboard jostled each other. She wore a filthy blue wrapper,
and her teeth were black.

"Vot is it?" she said, when she saw Jurgis.

He had run like mad all the way and was so out of breath he could hardly speak. His hair was
flying and his eyes wild--he looked like a man that had risen from the tomb. "My wife!" he
panted. "Come quickly!" Madame Haupt set the frying pan to one side and wiped her hands on
her wrapper.

"You vant me to come for a case?" she inquired.

"Yes," gasped Jurgis.

"I haf yust come back from a case," she said. "I haf had no time to eat my dinner. Still--if
it is so bad--"

"Yes--it is!" cried he. "Vell, den, perhaps--vot you pay?"

"I--I--how much do you want?" Jurgis stammered.

"Tventy-five dollars." His face fell. "I can't pay that," he said.

The woman was watching him narrowly. "How much do you pay?" she demanded.

"Must I pay now--right away?"

"Yes; all my customers do."

"I--I haven't much money," Jurgis began in an agony of dread. "I've been in--in trouble--and
my money is gone. But I'll pay you--every cent--just as soon as I can; I can work--"

"Vot is your work?"

"I have no place now. I must get one. But I--"

"How much haf you got now?"

He could hardly bring himself to reply. When he said "A dollar and a quarter," the woman laughed
in his face.

"I vould not put on my hat for a dollar and a quarter," she said.

"It's all I've got," he pleaded, his voice breaking. "I must get some one--my wife will die.
I can't help it--I--"

Madame Haupt had put back her pork and onions on the stove. She turned to him and answered,
out of the steam and noise: "Git me ten dollars cash, und so you can pay me the rest next mont'."

"I can't do it--I haven't got it!" Jurgis protested. "I tell you I have only a dollar and a
quarter."

The woman turned to her work. "I don't believe you," she said. "Dot is all to try to sheat
me. Vot is de reason a big man like you has got only a dollar und a quarter?"

"I've just been in jail," Jurgis cried--he was ready to get down upon his knees to the woman--"and
I had no money before, and my family has almost starved."

"Vere is your friends, dot ought to help you?"

"They are all poor," he answered. "They gave me this. I have done everything I can--"

"Haven't you got notting you can sell?"

"I have nothing, I tell you--I have nothing," he cried, frantically.

"Can't you borrow it, den? Don't your store people trust you?" Then, as he shook his head,
she went on: "Listen to me--if you git me you vill be glad of it. I vill save your wife und
baby for you, and it vill not seem like mooch to you in de end. If you loose dem now how you
tink you feel den? Und here is a lady dot knows her business--I could send you to people in
dis block, und dey vould tell you--"

Madame Haupt was pointing her cooking-fork at Jurgis persuasively; but her words were more
than he could bear. He flung up his hands with a gesture of despair and turned and started
away. "It's no use," he exclaimed--but suddenly he heard the woman's voice behind him again--

"I vill make it five dollars for you."

She followed behind him, arguing with him. "You vill be foolish not to take such an offer,"
she said. "You von't find nobody go out on a rainy day like dis for less. Vy, I haf never took
a case in my life so sheap as dot. I couldn't pay mine room rent--"

Jurgis interrupted her with an oath of rage. "If I haven't got it," he shouted, "how can I
pay it? Damn it, I would pay you if I could, but I tell you I haven't got it. I haven't got
it! Do you hear me I haven't got it!"

He turned and started away again. He was halfway down the stairs before Madame Haupt could
shout to him: "Vait! I vill go mit you! Come back!"

He went back into the room again.

"It is not goot to tink of anybody suffering," she said, in a melancholy voice. "I might as
vell go mit you for noffing as vot you offer me, but I vill try to help you. How far is it?"

"Three or four blocks from here."

"Tree or four! Und so I shall get soaked! Gott in Himmel, it ought to be vorth more! Vun dollar
und a quarter, und a day like dis!--But you understand now--you vill pay me de rest of twenty-five
dollars soon?"

"As soon as I can."

"Some time dis mont'?"

"Yes, within a month," said poor Jurgis. "Anything! Hurry up!"

"Vere is de dollar und a quarter?" persisted Madame Haupt, relentlessly.

Jurgis put the money on the table and the woman counted it and stowed it away. Then she wiped
her greasy hands again and proceeded to get ready, complaining all the time; she was so fat
that it was painful for her to move, and she grunted and gasped at every step. She took off
her wrapper without even taking the trouble to turn her back to Jurgis, and put on her corsets
and dress. Then there was a black bonnet which had to be adjusted carefully, and an umbrella
which was mislaid, and a bag full of necessaries which had to be collected from here and there--the
man being nearly crazy with anxiety in the meantime. When they were on the street he kept about
four paces ahead of her, turning now and then, as if he could hurry her on by the force of
his desire. But Madame Haupt could only go so far at a step, and it took all her attention
to get the needed breath for that.

They came at last to the house, and to the group of frightened women in the kitchen. It was
not over yet, Jurgis learned--he heard Ona crying still; and meantime Madame Haupt removed
her bonnet and laid it on the mantelpiece, and got out of her bag, first an old dress and then
a saucer of goose grease, which she proceeded to rub upon her hands. The more cases this goose
grease is used in, the better luck it brings to the midwife, and so she keeps it upon her kitchen
mantelpiece or stowed away in a cupboard with her dirty clothes, for months, and sometimes
even for years.

Then they escorted her to the ladder, and Jurgis heard her give an exclamation of dismay. "Gott
in Himmel, vot for haf you brought me to a place like dis? I could not climb up dot ladder.
I could not git troo a trap door! I vill not try it--vy, I might kill myself already. Vot sort
of a place is dot for a woman to bear a child in--up in a garret, mit only a ladder to it?
You ought to be ashamed of yourselves!" Jurgis stood in the doorway and listened to her scolding,
half drowning out the horrible moans and screams of Ona.

At last Aniele succeeded in pacifying her, and she essayed the ascent; then, however, she had
to be stopped while the old woman cautioned her about the floor of the garret. They had no
real floor--they had laid old boards in one part to make a place for the family to live; it
was all right and safe there, but the other part of the garret had only the joists of the floor,
and the lath and plaster of the ceiling below, and if one stepped on this there would be a
catastrophe. As it was half dark up above, perhaps one of the others had best go up first with
a candle. Then there were more outcries and threatening, until at last Jurgis had a vision
of a pair of elephantine legs disappearing through the trap door, and felt the house shake
as Madame Haupt started to walk. Then suddenly Aniele came to him and took him by the arm.

"Now," she said, "you go away. Do as I tell you--you have done all you can, and you are only
in the way. Go away and stay away."

"But where shall I go?" Jurgis asked, helplessly.

"I don't know where," she answered. "Go on the street, if there is no other place--only go!
And stay all night!"

In the end she and Marija pushed him out of the door and shut it behind him. It was just about
sundown, and it was turning cold--the rain had changed to snow, and the slush was freezing.
Jurgis shivered in his thin clothing, and put his hands into his pockets and started away.
He had not eaten since morning, and he felt weak and ill; with a sudden throb of hope he recollected
he was only a few blocks from the saloon where he had been wont to eat his dinner. They might
have mercy on him there, or he might meet a friend. He set out for the place as fast as he
could walk.

"Hello, Jack," said the saloonkeeper, when he entered--they call all foreigners and unskilled
men "Jack" in Packingtown. "Where've you been?"

Jurgis went straight to the bar. "I've been in jail," he said, "and I've just got out. I walked
home all the way, and I've not a cent, and had nothing to eat since this morning. And I've
lost my home, and my wife's ill, and I'm done up."

The saloonkeeper gazed at him, with his haggard white face and his blue trembling lips. Then
he pushed a big bottle toward him. "Fill her up!" he said.

Jurgis could hardly hold the bottle, his hands shook so.

"Don't be afraid," said the saloonkeeper, "fill her up!"

So Jurgis drank a large glass of whisky, and then turned to the lunch counter, in obedience
to the other's suggestion. He ate all he dared, stuffing it in as fast as he could; and then,
after trying to speak his gratitude, he went and sat down by the big red stove in the middle
of the room.

It was too good to last, however--like all things in this hard world. His soaked clothing began
to steam, and the horrible stench of fertilizer to fill the room. In an hour or so the packing
houses would be closing and the men coming in from their work; and they would not come into
a place that smelt of Jurgis. Also it was Saturday night, and in a couple of hours would come
a violin and a cornet, and in the rear part of the saloon the families of the neighborhood
would dance and feast upon wienerwurst and lager, until two or three o'clock in the morning.
The saloon-keeper coughed once or twice, and then remarked, "Say, Jack, I'm afraid you'll have
to quit."

He was used to the sight of human wrecks, this saloonkeeper; he "fired" dozens of them every
night, just as haggard and cold and forlorn as this one. But they were all men who had given
up and been counted out, while Jurgis was still in the fight, and had reminders of decency
about him. As he got up meekly, the other reflected that he had always been a steady man, and
might soon be a good customer again. "You've been up against it, I see," he said. "Come this way."

In the rear of the saloon were the cellar stairs. There was a door above and another below,
both safely padlocked, making the stairs an admirable place to stow away a customer who might
still chance to have money, or a political light whom it was not advisable to kick out of doors.

So Jurgis spent the night. The whisky had only half warmed him, and he could not sleep, exhausted
as he was; he would nod forward, and then start up, shivering with the cold, and begin to remember
again. Hour after hour passed, until he could only persuade himself that it was not morning
by the sounds of music and laughter and singing that were to be heard from the room. When at
last these ceased, he expected that he would be turned out into the street; as this did not
happen, he fell to wondering whether the man had forgotten him.

In the end, when the silence and suspense were no longer to be borne, he got up and hammered
on the door; and the proprietor came, yawning and rubbing his eyes. He was keeping open all
night, and dozing between customers.

"I want to go home," Jurgis said. "I'm worried about my wife--I can't wait any longer."

"Why the hell didn't you say so before?" said the man. "I thought you didn't have any home
to go to." Jurgis went outside. It was four o'clock in the morning, and as black as night.
There were three or four inches of fresh snow on the ground, and the flakes were falling thick
and fast. He turned toward Aniele's and started at a run.

There was a light burning in the kitchen window and the blinds were drawn. The door was unlocked
and Jurgis rushed in.

Aniele, Marija, and the rest of the women were huddled about the stove, exactly as before;
with them were several newcomers, Jurgis noticed--also he noticed that the house was silent.

"Well?" he said.

No one answered him, they sat staring at him with their pale faces. He cried again: "Well?"

And then, by the light of the smoky lamp, he saw Marija who sat nearest him, shaking her head
slowly. "Not yet," she said.

And Jurgis gave a cry of dismay. "Not yet?"

Again Marija's head shook. The poor fellow stood dumfounded. "I don't hear her," he gasped.

"She's been quiet a long time," replied the other.

There was another pause--broken suddenly by a voice from the attic: "Hello, there!"

Several of the women ran into the next room, while Marija sprang toward Jurgis. "Wait here!"
she cried, and the two stood, pale and trembling, listening. In a few moments it became clear
that Madame Haupt was engaged in descending the ladder, scolding and exhorting again, while
the ladder creaked in protest. In a moment or two she reached the ground, angry and breathless,
and they heard her coming into the room. Jurgis gave one glance at her, and then turned white
and reeled. She had her jacket off, like one of the workers on the killing beds. Her hands
and arms were smeared with blood, and blood was splashed upon her clothing and her face.

She stood breathing hard, and gazing about her; no one made a sound. "I haf done my best,"
she began suddenly. "I can do noffing more--dere is no use to try."

Again there was silence.

"It ain't my fault," she said. "You had ought to haf had a doctor, und not vaited so long--it
vas too late already ven I come." Once more there was deathlike stillness. Marija was clutching
Jurgis with all the power of her one well arm.

Then suddenly Madame Haupt turned to Aniele. "You haf not got something to drink, hey?" she
queried. "Some brandy?"

Aniele shook her head.

"Herr Gott!" exclaimed Madame Haupt. "Such people! Perhaps you vill give me someting to eat
den--I haf had noffing since yesterday morning, und I haf vorked myself near to death here.
If I could haf known it vas like dis, I vould never haf come for such money as you gif me."
At this moment she chanced to look round, and saw Jurgis: She shook her finger at him. "You
understand me," she said, "you pays me dot money yust de same! It is not my fault dat you send
for me so late I can't help your vife. It is not my fault if der baby comes mit one arm first,
so dot I can't save it. I haf tried all night, und in dot place vere it is not fit for dogs
to be born, und mit notting to eat only vot I brings in mine own pockets."

Here Madame Haupt paused for a moment to get her breath; and Marija, seeing the beads of sweat
on Jurgis's forehead, and feeling the quivering of his frame, broke out in a low voice: "How
is Ona?"

"How is she?" echoed Madame Haupt. "How do you tink she can be ven you leave her to kill herself
so? I told dem dot ven they send for de priest. She is young, und she might haf got over it,
und been vell und strong, if she had been treated right. She fight hard, dot girl--she is not
yet quite dead."

And Jurgis gave a frantic scream. "Dead!"

"She vill die, of course," said the other angrily. "Der baby is dead now."

The garret was lighted by a candle stuck upon a board; it had almost burned itself out, and
was sputtering and smoking as Jurgis rushed up the ladder. He could make out dimly in one corner
a pallet of rags and old blankets, spread upon the floor; at the foot of it was a crucifix,
and near it a priest muttering a prayer. In a far corner crouched Elzbieta, moaning and wailing.
Upon the pallet lay Ona.

She was covered with a blanket, but he could see her shoulders and one arm lying bare; she
was so shrunken he would scarcely have known her--she was all but a skeleton, and as white
as a piece of chalk. Her eyelids were closed, and she lay still as death. He staggered toward
her and fell upon his knees with a cry of anguish: "Ona! Ona!"

She did not stir. He caught her hand in his, and began to clasp it frantically, calling: "Look
at me! Answer me! It is Jurgis come back--don't you hear me?"

There was the faintest quivering of the eyelids, and he called again in frenzy: "Ona! Ona!"

Then suddenly her eyes opened one instant. One instant she looked at him--there was a flash
of recognition between them, he saw her afar off, as through a dim vista, standing forlorn.
He stretched out his arms to her, he called her in wild despair; a fearful yearning surged
up in him, hunger for her that was agony, desire that was a new being born within him, tearing
his heartstrings, torturing him. But it was all in vain--she faded from him, she slipped back
and was gone. And a wail of anguish burst from him, great sobs shook all his frame, and hot
tears ran down his cheeks and fell upon her. He clutched her hands, he shook her, he caught
her in his arms and pressed her to him but she lay cold and still--she was gone--she was gone!

The word rang through him like the sound of a bell, echoing in the far depths of him, making
forgotten chords to vibrate, old shadowy fears to stir--fears of the dark, fears of the void,
fears of annihilation. She was dead! She was dead! He would never see her again, never hear
her again! An icy horror of loneliness seized him; he saw himself standing apart and watching
all the world fade away from him--a world of shadows, of fickle dreams. He was like a little
child, in his fright and grief; he called and called, and got no answer, and his cries of despair
echoed through the house, making the women downstairs draw nearer to each other in fear. He
was inconsolable, beside himself--the priest came and laid his hand upon his shoulder and whispered
to him, but he heard not a sound. He was gone away himself, stumbling through the shadows,
and groping after the soul that had fled.

So he lay. The gray dawn came up and crept into the attic. The priest left, the women left,
and he was alone with the still, white figure--quieter now, but moaning and shuddering, wrestling
with the grisly fiend. Now and then he would raise himself and stare at the white mask before
him, then hide his eyes because he could not bear it. Dead! dead! And she was only a girl,
she was barely eighteen! Her life had hardly begun--and here she lay murdered--mangled, tortured
to death!

It was morning when he rose up and came down into the kitchen--haggard and ashen gray, reeling
and dazed. More of the neighbors had come in, and they stared at him in silence as he sank
down upon a chair by the table and buried his face in his arms.

A few minutes later the front door opened; a blast of cold and snow rushed in, and behind it
little Kotrina, breathless from running, and blue with the cold. "I'm home again!" she exclaimed.
"I could hardly--"

And then, seeing Jurgis, she stopped with an exclamation. Looking from one to another she saw
that something had happened, and she asked, in a lower voice: "What's the matter?"

Before anyone could reply, Jurgis started up; he went toward her, walking unsteadily. "Where
have you been?" he demanded.

"Selling papers with the boys," she said. "The snow--"

"Have you any money?" he demanded.

"Yes."

"How much?"

"Nearly three dollars, Jurgis."

"Give it to me."

Kotrina, frightened by his manner, glanced at the others. "Give it to me!" he commanded again,
and she put her hand into her pocket and pulled out a lump of coins tied in a bit of rag. Jurgis
took it without a word, and went out of the door and down the street.

Three doors away was a saloon. "Whisky," he said, as he entered, and as the man pushed him
some, he tore at the rag with his teeth and pulled out half a dollar. "How much is the bottle?"
he said. "I want to get drunk."

Chapter 20

But a big man cannot stay drunk very long on three dollars. That was Sunday morning, and Monday
night Jurgis came home, sober and sick, realizing that he had spent every cent the family owned,
and had not bought a single instant's forgetfulness with it.

Ona was not yet buried; but the police had been notified, and on the morrow they would put
the body in a pine coffin and take it to the potter's field. Elzbieta was out begging now,
a few pennies from each of the neighbors, to get enough to pay for a mass for her; and the
children were upstairs starving to death, while he, good-for-nothing rascal, had been spending
their money on drink. So spoke Aniele, scornfully, and when he started toward the fire she
added the information that her kitchen was no longer for him to fill with his phosphate stinks.
She had crowded all her boarders into one room on Ona's account, but now he could go up in
the garret where he belonged--and not there much longer, either, if he did not pay her some rent.

Jurgis went without a word, and, stepping over half a dozen sleeping boarders in the next room,
ascended the ladder. It was dark up above; they could not afford any light; also it was nearly
as cold as outdoors. In a corner, as far away from the corpse as possible, sat Marija, holding
little Antanas in her one good arm and trying to soothe him to sleep. In another corner crouched
poor little Juozapas, wailing because he had had nothing to eat all day. Marija said not a
word to Jurgis; he crept in like a whipped cur, and went and sat down by the body.

Perhaps he ought to have meditated upon the hunger of the children, and upon his own baseness;
but he thought only of Ona, he gave himself up again to the luxury of grief. He shed no tears,
being ashamed to make a sound; he sat motionless and shuddering with his anguish. He had never
dreamed how much he loved Ona, until now that she was gone; until now that he sat here, knowing
that on the morrow they would take her away, and that he would never lay eyes upon her again--never
all the days of his life. His old love, which had been starved to death, beaten to death, awoke
in him again; the floodgates of memory were lifted--he saw all their life together, saw her
as he had seen her in Lithuania, the first day at the fair, beautiful as the flowers, singing
like a bird. He saw her as he had married her, with all her tenderness, with her heart of wonder;
the very words she had spoken seemed to ring now in his ears, the tears she had shed to be
wet upon his cheek. The long, cruel battle with misery and hunger had hardened and embittered
him, but it had not changed her--she had been the same hungry soul to the end, stretching out
her arms to him, pleading with him, begging him for love and tenderness. And she had suffered--so
cruelly she had suffered, such agonies, such infamies--ah, God, the memory of them was not
to be borne. What a monster of wickedness, of heartlessness, he had been! Every angry word
that he had ever spoken came back to him and cut him like a knife; every selfish act that he
had done--with what torments he paid for them now! And such devotion and awe as welled up in
his soul--now that it could never be spoken, now that it was too late, too late! His bosom-was
choking with it, bursting with it; he crouched here in the darkness beside her, stretching
out his arms to her--and she was gone forever, she was dead! He could have screamed aloud with
the horror and despair of it; a sweat of agony beaded his forehead, yet he dared not make a
sound--he scarcely dared to breathe, because of his shame and loathing of himself.

Late at night came Elzbieta, having gotten the money for a mass, and paid for it in advance,
lest she should be tempted too sorely at home. She brought also a bit of stale rye bread that
some one had given her, and with that they quieted the children and got them to sleep. Then
she came over to Jurgis and sat down beside him.

She said not a word of reproach--she and Marija had chosen that course before; she would only
plead with him, here by the corpse of his dead wife. Already Elzbieta had choked down her tears,
grief being crowded out of her soul by fear. She had to bury one of her children--but then
she had done it three times before, and each time risen up and gone back to take up the battle
for the rest. Elzbieta was one of the primitive creatures: like the angleworm, which goes on
living though cut in half; like a hen, which, deprived of her chickens one by one, will mother
the last that is left her. She did this because it was her nature--she asked no questions about
the justice of it, nor the worth-whileness of life in which destruction and death ran riot.

And this old common-sense view she labored to impress upon Jurgis, pleading with him with tears
in her eyes. Ona was dead, but the others were left and they must be saved. She did not ask
for her own children. She and Marija could care for them somehow, but there was Antanas, his
own son. Ona had given Antanas to him--the little fellow was the only remembrance of her that
he had; he must treasure it and protect it, he must show himself a man. He knew what Ona would
have had him do, what she would ask of him at this moment, if she could speak to him. It was
a terrible thing that she should have died as she had; but the life had been too hard for her,
and she had to go. It was terrible that they were not able to bury her, that he could not even
have a day to mourn her--but so it was. Their fate was pressing; they had not a cent, and the
children would perish--some money must be had. Could he not be a man for Ona's sake, and pull
himself together? In a little while they would be out of danger--now that they had given up
the house they could live more cheaply, and with all the children working they could get along,
if only he would not go to pieces. So Elzbieta went on, with feverish intensity. It was a struggle
for life with her; she was not afraid that Jurgis would go on drinking, for he had no money
for that, but she was wild with dread at the thought that he might desert them, might take
to the road, as Jonas had done.

But with Ona's dead body beneath his eyes, Jurgis could not well think of treason to his child.
Yes, he said, he would try, for the sake of Antanas. He would give the little fellow his chance--would
get to work at once, yes, tomorrow, without even waiting for Ona to be buried. They might trust
him, he would keep his word, come what might.

And so he was out before daylight the next morning, headache, heartache, and all. He went straight
to Graham's fertilizer mill, to see if he could get back his job. But the boss shook his head
when he saw him--no, his place had been filled long ago, and there was no room for him.

"Do you think there will be?" Jurgis asked. "I may have to wait."

"No," said the other, "it will not be worth your while to wait--there will be nothing for you
here."

Jurgis stood gazing at him in perplexity. "What is the matter?" he asked. "Didn't I do my work?"

The other met his look with one of cold indifference, and answered, "There will be nothing
for you here, I said."

Jurgis had his suspicions as to the dreadful meaning of that incident, and he went away with
a sinking at the heart. He went and took his stand with the mob of hungry wretches who were
standing about in the snow before the time station. Here he stayed, breakfastless, for two
hours, until the throng was driven away by the clubs of the police. There was no work for him
that day.

Jurgis had made a good many acquaintances in his long services at the yards--there were saloonkeepers
who would trust him for a drink and a sandwich, and members of his old union who would lend
him a dime at a pinch. It was not a question of life and death for him, therefore; he might
hunt all day, and come again on the morrow, and try hanging on thus for weeks, like hundreds
and thousands of others. Meantime, Teta Elzbieta would go and beg, over in the Hyde Park district,
and the children would bring home enough to pacify Aniele, and keep them all alive.

It was at the end of a week of this sort of waiting, roaming about in the bitter winds or loafing
in saloons, that Jurgis stumbled on a chance in one of the cellars of Jones's big packing plant.
He saw a foreman passing the open doorway, and hailed him for a job.

"Push a truck?" inquired the man, and Jurgis answered, "Yes, sir!" before the words were well
out of his mouth.

"What's your name?" demanded the other.

"Jurgis Rudkus."

"Worked in the yards before?"

"Yes."

"Whereabouts?"

"Two places--Brown's killing beds and Durham's fertilizer mill."

"Why did you leave there?"

"The first time I had an accident, and the last time I was sent up for a month."

"I see. Well, I'll give you a trial. Come early tomorrow and ask for Mr. Thomas."

So Jurgis rushed home with the wild tidings that he had a job--that the terrible siege was
over. The remnants of the family had quite a celebration that night; and in the morning Jurgis
was at the place half an hour before the time of opening. The foreman came in shortly afterward,
and when he saw Jurgis he frowned.

"Oh," he said, "I promised you a job, didn't I?"

"Yes, sir," said Jurgis.

"Well, I'm sorry, but I made a mistake. I can't use you."

Jurgis stared, dumfounded. "What's the matter?" he gasped.

"Nothing," said the man, "only I can't use you."

There was the same cold, hostile stare that he had had from the boss of the fertilizer mill.
He knew that there was no use in saying a word, and he turned and went away.

Out in the saloons the men could tell him all about the meaning of it; they gazed at him with
pitying eyes--poor devil, he was blacklisted! What had he done? they asked--knocked down his
boss? Good heavens, then he might have known! Why, he stood as much chance of getting a job
in Packingtown as of being chosen mayor of Chicago. Why had he wasted his time hunting? They
had him on a secret list in every office, big and little, in the place. They had his name by
this time in St. Louis and New York, in Omaha and Boston, in Kansas City and St. Joseph. He
was condemned and sentenced, without trial and without appeal; he could never work for the
packers again--he could not even clean cattle pens or drive a truck in any place where they
controlled. He might try it, if he chose, as hundreds had tried it, and found out for themselves.
He would never be told anything about it; he would never get any more satisfaction than he
had gotten just now; but he would always find when the time came that he was not needed. It
would not do for him to give any other name, either--they had company "spotters" for just that
purpose, and he wouldn't keep a job in Packingtown three days. It was worth a fortune to the
packers to keep their blacklist effective, as a warning to the men and a means of keeping down
union agitation and political discontent.

Jurgis went home, carrying these new tidings to the family council. It was a most cruel thing;
here in this district was his home, such as it was, the place he was used to and the friends
he knew--and now every possibility of employment in it was closed to him. There was nothing
in Packingtown but packing houses; and so it was the same thing as evicting him from his home.

He and the two women spent all day and half the night discussing it. It would be convenient,
downtown, to the children's place of work; but then Marija was on the road to recovery, and
had hopes of getting a job in the yards; and though she did not see her old-time lover once
a month, because of the misery of their state, yet she could not make up her mind to go away
and give him up forever. Then, too, Elzbieta had heard something about a chance to scrub floors
in Durham's offices and was waiting every day for word. In the end it was decided that Jurgis
should go downtown to strike out for himself, and they would decide after he got a job. As
there was no one from whom he could borrow there, and he dared not beg for fear of being arrested,
it was arranged that every day he should meet one of the children and be given fifteen cents
of their earnings, upon which he could keep going. Then all day he was to pace the streets
with hundreds and thousands of other homeless wretches inquiring at stores, warehouses, and
factories for a chance; and at night he was to crawl into some doorway or underneath a truck,
and hide there until midnight, when he might get into one of the station houses, and spread
a newspaper upon the floor, and lie down in the midst of a throng of "bums" and beggars, reeking
with alcohol and tobacco, and filthy with vermin and disease.

So for two weeks more Jurgis fought with the demon of despair. Once he got a chance to load
a truck for half a day, and again he carried an old woman's valise and was given a quarter.
This let him into a lodginghouse on several nights when he might otherwise have frozen to death;
and it also gave him a chance now and then to buy a newspaper in the morning and hunt up jobs
while his rivals were watching and waiting for a paper to be thrown away. This, however, was
really not the advantage it seemed, for the newspaper advertisements were a cause of much loss
of precious time and of many weary journeys. A full half of these were "fakes," put in by the
endless variety of establishments which preyed upon the helpless ignorance of the unemployed.
If Jurgis lost only his time, it was because he had nothing else to lose; whenever a smooth-tongued
agent would tell him of the wonderful positions he had on hand, he could only shake his head
sorrowfully and say that he had not the necessary dollar to deposit; when it was explained
to him what "big money" he and all his family could make by coloring photographs, he could
only promise to come in again when he had two dollars to invest in the outfit.

In the end Jurgis got a chance through an accidental meeting with an old-time acquaintance
of his union days. He met this man on his way to work in the giant factories of the Harvester
Trust; and his friend told him to come along and he would speak a good word for him to his
boss, whom he knew well. So Jurgis trudged four or five miles, and passed through a waiting
throng of unemployed at the gate under the escort of his friend. His knees nearly gave way
beneath him when the foreman, after looking him over and questioning him, told him that he
could find an opening for him.

How much this accident meant to Jurgis he realized only by stages; for he found that the harvester
works were the sort of place to which philanthropists and reformers pointed with pride. It
had some thought for its employees; its workshops were big and roomy, it provided a restaurant
where the workmen could buy good food at cost, it had even a reading room, and decent places
where its girl-hands could rest; also the work was free from many of the elements of filth
and repulsiveness that prevailed at the stockyards. Day after day Jurgis discovered these things--things
never expected nor dreamed of by him--until this new place came to seem a kind of a heaven to him.

It was an enormous establishment, covering a hundred and sixty acres of ground, employing five
thousand people, and turning out over three hundred thousand machines every year--a good part
of all the harvesting and mowing machines used in the country. Jurgis saw very little of it,
of course--it was all specialized work, the same as at the stockyards; each one of the hundreds
of parts of a mowing machine was made separately, and sometimes handled by hundreds of men.
Where Jurgis worked there was a machine which cut and stamped a certain piece of steel about
two square inches in size; the pieces came tumbling out upon a tray, and all that human hands
had to do was to pile them in regular rows, and change the trays at intervals. This was done
by a single boy, who stood with eyes and thought centered upon it, and fingers flying so fast
that the sounds of the bits of steel striking upon each other was like the music of an express
train as one hears it in a sleeping car at night. This was "piece-work," of course; and besides
it was made certain that the boy did not idle, by setting the machine to match the highest
possible speed of human hands. Thirty thousand of these pieces he handled every day, nine or
ten million every year--how many in a lifetime it rested with the gods to say. Near by him
men sat bending over whirling grindstones, putting the finishing touches to the steel knives
of the reaper; picking them out of a basket with the right hand, pressing first one side and
then the other against the stone and finally dropping them with the left hand into another
basket. One of these men told Jurgis that he had sharpened three thousand pieces of steel a
day for thirteen years. In the next room were wonderful machines that ate up long steel rods
by slow stages, cutting them off, seizing the pieces, stamping heads upon them, grinding them
and polishing them, threading them, and finally dropping them into a basket, all ready to bolt
the harvesters together. From yet another machine came tens of thousands of steel burs to fit
upon these bolts. In other places all these various parts were dipped into troughs of paint
and hung up to dry, and then slid along on trolleys to a room where men streaked them with
red and yellow, so that they might look cheerful in the harvest fields.

Jurgis's friend worked upstairs in the casting rooms, and his task was to make the molds of
a certain part. He shoveled black sand into an iron receptacle and pounded it tight and set
it aside to harden; then it would be taken out, and molten iron poured into it. This man, too,
was paid by the mold--or rather for perfect castings, nearly half his work going for naught.
You might see him, along with dozens of others, toiling like one possessed by a whole community
of demons; his arms working like the driving rods of an engine, his long, black hair flying
wild, his eyes starting out, the sweat rolling in rivers down his face. When he had shoveled
the mold full of sand, and reached for the pounder to pound it with, it was after the manner
of a canoeist running rapids and seizing a pole at sight of a submerged rock. All day long
this man would toil thus, his whole being centered upon the purpose of making twenty-three
instead of twenty-two and a half cents an hour; and then his product would be reckoned up by
the census taker, and jubilant captains of industry would boast of it in their banquet halls,
telling how our workers are nearly twice as efficient as those of any other country. If we
are the greatest nation the sun ever shone upon, it would seem to be mainly because we have
been able to goad our wage-earners to this pitch of frenzy; though there are a few other things
that are great among us including our drink-bill, which is a billion and a quarter of dollars
a year, and doubling itself every decade.

There was a machine which stamped out the iron plates, and then another which, with a mighty
thud, mashed them to the shape of the sitting-down portion of the American farmer. Then they
were piled upon a truck, and it was Jurgis's task to wheel them to the room where the machines
were "assembled." This was child's play for him, and he got a dollar and seventy-five cents
a day for it; on Saturday he paid Aniele the seventy-five cents a week he owed her for the
use of her garret, and also redeemed his overcoat, which Elzbieta had put in pawn when he was
in jail.

This last was a great blessing. A man cannot go about in midwinter in Chicago with no overcoat
and not pay for it, and Jurgis had to walk or ride five or six miles back and forth to his
work. It so happened that half of this was in one direction and half in another, necessitating
a change of cars; the law required that transfers be given at all intersecting points, but
the railway corporation had gotten round this by arranging a pretense at separate ownership.
So whenever he wished to ride, he had to pay ten cents each way, or over ten per cent of his
income to this power, which had gotten its franchises long ago by buying up the city council,
in the face of popular clamor amounting almost to a rebellion. Tired as he felt at night, and
dark and bitter cold as it was in the morning, Jurgis generally chose to walk; at the hours
other workmen were traveling, the streetcar monopoly saw fit to put on so few cars that there
would be men hanging to every foot of the backs of them and often crouching upon the snow-covered
roof. Of course the doors could never be closed, and so the cars were as cold as outdoors;
Jurgis, like many others, found it better to spend his fare for a drink and a free lunch, to
give him strength to walk.

These, however, were all slight matters to a man who had escaped from Durham's fertilizer mill.
Jurgis began to pick up heart again and to make plans. He had lost his house but then the awful
load of the rent and interest was off his shoulders, and when Marija was well again they could
start over and save. In the shop where he worked was a man, a Lithuanian like himself, whom
the others spoke of in admiring whispers, because of the mighty feats he was performing. All
day he sat at a machine turning bolts; and then in the evening he went to the public school
to study English and learn to read. In addition, because he had a family of eight children
to support and his earnings were not enough, on Saturdays and Sundays he served as a watchman;
he was required to press two buttons at opposite ends of a building every five minutes, and
as the walk only took him two minutes, he had three minutes to study between each trip. Jurgis
felt jealous of this fellow; for that was the sort of thing he himself had dreamed of, two
or three years ago. He might do it even yet, if he had a fair chance--he might attract attention
and become a skilled man or a boss, as some had done in this place. Suppose that Marija could
get a job in the big mill where they made binder twine--then they would move into this neighborhood,
and he would really have a chance. With a hope like that, there was some use in living; to
find a place where you were treated like a human being--by God! he would show them how he could
appreciate it. He laughed to himself as he thought how he would hang on to this job!

And then one afternoon, the ninth of his work in the place, when he went to get his overcoat
he saw a group of men crowded before a placard on the door, and when he went over and asked
what it was, they told him that beginning with the morrow his department of the harvester works
would be closed until further notice!

Chapter 21

That was the way they did it! There was not half an hour's warning--the works were closed!
It had happened that way before, said the men, and it would happen that way forever. They had
made all the harvesting machines that the world needed, and now they had to wait till some
wore out! It was nobody's fault--that was the way of it; and thousands of men and women were
turned out in the dead of winter, to live upon their savings if they had any, and otherwise
to die. So many tens of thousands already in the city, homeless and begging for work, and now
several thousand more added to them!

Jurgis walked home-with his pittance of pay in his pocket, heartbroken, overwhelmed. One more
bandage had been torn from his eyes, one more pitfall was revealed to him! Of what help was
kindness and decency on the part of employers--when they could not keep a job for him, when
there were more harvesting machines made than the world was able to buy! What a hellish mockery
it was, anyway, that a man should slave to make harvesting machines for the country, only to
be turned out to starve for doing his duty too well!

It took him two days to get over this heartsickening disappointment. He did not drink anything,
because Elzbieta got his money for safekeeping, and knew him too well to be in the least frightened
by his angry demands. He stayed up in the garret however, and sulked--what was the use of a
man's hunting a job when it was taken from him before he had time to learn the work? But then
their money was going again, and little Antanas was hungry, and crying with the bitter cold
of the garret. Also Madame Haupt, the midwife, was after him for some money. So he went out
once more.

For another ten days he roamed the streets and alleys of the huge city, sick and hungry, begging
for any work. He tried in stores and offices, in restaurants and hotels, along the docks and
in the railroad yards, in warehouses and mills and factories where they made products that
went to every corner of the world. There were often one or two chances--but there were always
a hundred men for every chance, and his turn would not come. At night he crept into sheds and
cellars and doorways--until there came a spell of belated winter weather, with a raging gale,
and the thermometer five degrees below zero at sundown and falling all night. Then Jurgis fought
like a wild beast to get into the big Harrison Street police station, and slept down in a corridor,
crowded with two other men upon a single step.

He had to fight often in these days to fight for a place near the factory gates, and now and
again with gangs on the street. He found, for instance, that the business of carrying satchels
for railroad passengers was a pre-empted one--whenever he essayed it, eight or ten men and
boys would fall upon him and force him to run for his life. They always had the policeman "squared,"
and so there was no use in expecting protection.

That Jurgis did not starve to death was due solely to the pittance the children brought him.
And even this was never certain. For one thing the cold was almost more than the children could
bear; and then they, too, were in perpetual peril from rivals who plundered and beat them.
The law was against them, too--little Vilimas, who was really eleven, but did not look to be
eight, was stopped on the streets by a severe old lady in spectacles, who told him that he
was too young to be working and that if he did not stop selling papers she would send a truant
officer after him. Also one night a strange man caught little Kotrina by the arm and tried
to persuade her into a dark cellarway, an experience which filled her with such terror that
she was hardly to be kept at work.

At last, on a Sunday, as there was no use looking for work, Jurgis went home by stealing rides
on the cars. He found that they had been waiting for him for three days--there was a chance
of a job for him.

It was quite a story. Little Juozapas, who was near crazy with hunger these days, had gone
out on the street to beg for himself. Juozapas had only one leg, having been run over by a
wagon when a little child, but he had got himself a broomstick, which he put under his arm
for a crutch. He had fallen in with some other children and found the way to Mike Scully's
dump, which lay three or four blocks away. To this place there came every day many hundreds
of wagonloads of garbage and trash from the lake front, where the rich people lived; and in
the heaps the children raked for food--there were hunks of bread and potato peelings and apple
cores and meat bones, all of it half frozen and quite unspoiled. Little Juozapas gorged himself,
and came home with a newspaper full, which he was feeding to Antanas when his mother came in.
Elzbieta was horrified, for she did not believe that the food out of the dumps was fit to eat.
The next day, however, when no harm came of it and Juozapas began to cry with hunger, she gave
in and said that he might go again. And that afternoon he came home with a story of how while
he had been digging away with a stick, a lady upon the street had called him. A real fine lady,
the little boy explained, a beautiful lady; and she wanted to know all about him, and whether
he got the garbage for chickens, and why he walked with a broomstick, and why Ona had died,
and how Jurgis had come to go to jail, and what was the matter with Marija, and everything.
In the end she had asked where he lived, and said that she was coming to see him, and bring
him a new crutch to walk with. She had on a hat with a bird upon it, Juozapas added, and a
long fur snake around her neck.

She really came, the very next morning, and climbed the ladder to the garret, and stood and
stared about her, turning pale at the sight of the blood stains on the floor where Ona had
died. She was a "settlement worker," she explained to Elzbieta--she lived around on Ashland
Avenue. Elzbieta knew the place, over a feed store; somebody had wanted her to go there, but
she had not cared to, for she thought that it must have something to do with religion, and
the priest did not like her to have anything to do with strange religions. They were rich people
who came to live there to find out about the poor people; but what good they expected it would
do them to know, one could not imagine. So spoke Elzbieta, naively, and the young lady laughed
and was rather at a loss for an answer--she stood and gazed about her, and thought of a cynical
remark that had been made to her, that she was standing upon the brink of the pit of hell and
throwing in snowballs to lower the temperature.

Elzbieta was glad to have somebody to listen, and she told all their woes--what had happened
to Ona, and the jail, and the loss of their home, and Marija's accident, and how Ona had died,
and how Jurgis could get no work. As she listened the pretty young lady's eyes filled with
tears, and in the midst of it she burst into weeping and hid her face on Elzbieta's shoulder,
quite regardless of the fact that the woman had on a dirty old wrapper and that the garret
was full of fleas. Poor Elzbieta was ashamed of herself for having told so woeful a tale, and
the other had to beg and plead with her to get her to go on. The end of it was that the young
lady sent them a basket of things to eat, and left a letter that Jurgis was to take to a gentleman
who was superintendent in one of the mills of the great steelworks in South Chicago. "He will
get Jurgis something to do," the young lady had said, and added, smiling through her tears--"If
he doesn't, he will never marry me."

The steel-works were fifteen miles away, and as usual it was so contrived that one had to pay
two fares to get there. Far and wide the sky was flaring with the red glare that leaped from
rows of towering chimneys--for it was pitch dark when Jurgis arrived. The vast works, a city
in themselves, were surrounded by a stockade; and already a full hundred men were waiting at
the gate where new hands were taken on. Soon after daybreak whistles began to blow, and then
suddenly thousands of men appeared, streaming from saloons and boardinghouses across the way,
leaping from trolley cars that passed--it seemed as if they rose out of the ground, in the
dim gray light. A river of them poured in through the gate--and then gradually ebbed away again,
until there were only a few late ones running, and the watchman pacing up and down, and the
hungry strangers stamping and shivering.

Jurgis presented his precious letter. The gatekeeper was surly, and put him through a catechism,
but he insisted that he knew nothing, and as he had taken the precaution to seal his letter,
there was nothing for the gatekeeper to do but send it to the person to whom it was addressed.
A messenger came back to say that Jurgis should wait, and so he came inside of the gate, perhaps
not sorry enough that there were others less fortunate watching him with greedy eyes. The great
mills were getting under way--one could hear a vast stirring, a rolling and rumbling and hammering.
Little by little the scene grew plain: towering, black buildings here and there, long rows
of shops and sheds, little railways branching everywhere, bare gray cinders underfoot and oceans
of billowing black smoke above. On one side of the grounds ran a railroad with a dozen tracks,
and on the other side lay the lake, where steamers came to load.

Jurgis had time enough to stare and speculate, for it was two hours before he was summoned.
He went into the office building, where a company timekeeper interviewed him. The superintendent
was busy, he said, but he (the timekeeper) would try to find Jurgis a job. He had never worked
in a steel mill before? But he was ready for anything? Well, then, they would go and see.

So they began a tour, among sights that made Jurgis stare amazed. He wondered if ever he could
get used to working in a place like this, where the air shook with deafening thunder, and whistles
shrieked warnings on all sides of him at once; where miniature steam engines came rushing upon
him, and sizzling, quivering, white-hot masses of metal sped past him, and explosions of fire
and flaming sparks dazzled him and scorched his face. Then men in these mills were all black
with soot, and hollow-eyed and gaunt; they worked with fierce intensity, rushing here and there,
and never lifting their eyes from their tasks. Jurgis clung to his guide like a scared child
to its nurse, and while the latter hailed one foreman after another to ask if they could use
another unskilled man, he stared about him and marveled.

He was taken to the Bessemer furnace, where they made billets of steel--a domelike building,
the size of a big theater. Jurgis stood where the balcony of the theater would have been, and
opposite, by the stage, he saw three giant caldrons, big enough for all the devils of hell
to brew their broth in, full of something white and blinding, bubbling and splashing, roaring
as if volcanoes were blowing through it--one had to shout to be heard in the place. Liquid
fire would leap from these caldrons and scatter like bombs below--and men were working there,
seeming careless, so that Jurgis caught his breath with fright. Then a whistle would toot,
and across the curtain of the theater would come a little engine with a carload of something
to be dumped into one of the receptacles; and then another whistle would toot, down by the
stage, and another train would back up--and suddenly, without an instant's warning, one of
the giant kettles began to tilt and topple, flinging out a jet of hissing, roaring flame. Jurgis
shrank back appalled, for he thought it was an accident; there fell a pillar of white flame,
dazzling as the sun, swishing like a huge tree falling in the forest. A torrent of sparks swept
all the way across the building, overwhelming everything, hiding it from sight; and then Jurgis
looked through the fingers of his hands, and saw pouring out of the caldron a cascade of living,
leaping fire, white with a whiteness not of earth, scorching the eyeballs. Incandescent rainbows
shone above it, blue, red, and golden lights played about it; but the stream itself was white,
ineffable. Out of regions of wonder it streamed, the very river of life; and the soul leaped
up at the sight of it, fled back upon it, swift and resistless, back into far-off lands, where
beauty and terror dwell. Then the great caldron tilted back again, empty, and Jurgis saw to
his relief that no one was hurt, and turned and followed his guide out into the sunlight.

They went through the blast furnaces, through rolling mills where bars of steel were tossed
about and chopped like bits of cheese. All around and above giant machine arms were flying,
giant wheels were turning, great hammers crashing; traveling cranes creaked and groaned overhead,
reaching down iron hands and seizing iron prey--it was like standing in the center of the earth,
where the machinery of time was revolving.

By and by they came to the place where steel rails were made; and Jurgis heard a toot behind
him, and jumped out of the way of a car with a white-hot ingot upon it, the size of a man's
body. There was a sudden crash and the car came to a halt, and the ingot toppled out upon a
moving platform, where steel fingers and arms seized hold of it, punching it and prodding it
into place, and hurrying it into the grip of huge rollers. Then it came out upon the other
side, and there were more crashings and clatterings, and over it was flopped, like a pancake
on a gridiron, and seized again and rushed back at you through another squeezer. So amid deafening
uproar it clattered to and fro, growing thinner and flatter and longer. The ingot seemed almost
a living thing; it did not want to run this mad course, but it was in the grip of fate, it
was tumbled on, screeching and clanking and shivering in protest. By and by it was long and
thin, a great red snake escaped from purgatory; and then, as it slid through the rollers, you
would have sworn that it was alive--it writhed and squirmed, and wriggles and shudders passed
out through its tail, all but flinging it off by their violence. There was no rest for it until
it was cold and black--and then it needed only to be cut and straightened to be ready for a
railroad.

It was at the end of this rail's progress that Jurgis got his chance. They had to be moved
by men with crowbars, and the boss here could use another man. So he took off his coat and
set to work on the spot.

It took him two hours to get to this place every day and cost him a dollar and twenty cents
a week. As this was out of the question, he wrapped his bedding in a bundle and took it with
him, and one of his fellow workingmen introduced him to a Polish lodginghouse, where he might
have the privilege of sleeping upon the floor for ten cents a night. He got his meals at free-lunch
counters, and every Saturday night he went home--bedding and all--and took the greater part
of his money to the family. Elzbieta was sorry for this arrangement, for she feared that it
would get him into the habit of living without them, and once a week was not very often for
him to see his baby; but there was no other way of arranging it. There was no chance for a
woman at the steelworks, and Marija was now ready for work again, and lured on from day to
day by the hope of finding it at the yards.

In a week Jurgis got over his sense of helplessness and bewilderment in the rail mill. He learned
to find his way about and to take all the miracles and terrors for granted, to work without
hearing the rumbling and crashing. From blind fear he went to the other extreme; he became
reckless and indifferent, like all the rest of the men, who took but little thought of themselves
in the ardor of their work. It was wonderful, when one came to think of it, that these men
should have taken an interest in the work they did--they had no share in it--they were paid
by the hour, and paid no more for being interested. Also they knew that if they were hurt they
would be flung aside and forgotten--and still they would hurry to their task by dangerous short
cuts, would use methods that were quicker and more effective in spite of the fact that they
were also risky. His fourth day at his work Jurgis saw a man stumble while running in front
of a car, and have his foot mashed off, and before he had been there three weeks he was witness
of a yet more dreadful accident. There was a row of brick furnaces, shining white through every
crack with the molten steel inside. Some of these were bulging dangerously, yet men worked
before them, wearing blue glasses when they opened and shut the doors. One morning as Jurgis
was passing, a furnace blew out, spraying two men with a shower of liquid fire. As they lay
screaming and rolling upon the ground in agony, Jurgis rushed to help them, and as a result
he lost a good part of the skin from the inside of one of his hands. The company doctor bandaged
it up, but he got no other thanks from any one, and was laid up for eight working days without
any pay.

Most fortunately, at this juncture, Elzbieta got the long-awaited chance to go at five o'clock
in the morning and help scrub the office floors of one of the packers. Jurgis came home and
covered himself with blankets to keep warm, and divided his time between sleeping and playing
with little Antanas. Juozapas was away raking in the dump a good part of the time, and Elzbieta
and Marija were hunting for more work.

Antanas was now over a year and a half old, and was a perfect talking machine. He learned so
fast that every week when Jurgis came home it seemed to him as if he had a new child. He would
sit down and listen and stare at him, and give vent to delighted exclamations--"Palauk! Muma!
Tu mano szirdele!" The little fellow was now really the one delight that Jurgis had in the
world--his one hope, his one victory. Thank God, Antanas was a boy! And he was as tough as
a pine knot, and with the appetite of a wolf. Nothing had hurt him, and nothing could hurt
him; he had come through all the suffering and deprivation unscathed--only shriller-voiced
and more determined in his grip upon life. He was a terrible child to manage, was Antanas,
but his father did not mind that--he would watch him and smile to himself with satisfaction.
The more of a fighter he was the better--he would need to fight before he got through.

Jurgis had got the habit of buying the Sunday paper whenever he had the money; a most wonderful
paper could be had for only five cents, a whole armful, with all the news of the world set
forth in big headlines, that Jurgis could spell out slowly, with the children to help him at
the long words. There was battle and murder and sudden death--it was marvelous how they ever
heard about so many entertaining and thrilling happenings; the stories must be all true, for
surely no man could have made such things up, and besides, there were pictures of them all,
as real as life. One of these papers was as good as a circus, and nearly as good as a spree--certainly
a most wonderful treat for a workingman, who was tired out and stupefied, and had never had
any education, and whose work was one dull, sordid grind, day after day, and year after year,
with never a sight of a green field nor an hour's entertainment, nor anything but liquor to
stimulate his imagination. Among other things, these papers had pages full of comical pictures,
and these were the main joy in life to little Antanas. He treasured them up, and would drag
them out and make his father tell him about them; there were all sorts of animals among them,
and Antanas could tell the names of all of them, lying upon the floor for hours and pointing
them out with his chubby little fingers. Whenever the story was plain enough for Jurgis to
make out, Antanas would have it repeated to him, and then he would remember it, prattling funny
little sentences and mixing it up with other stories in an irresistible fashion. Also his quaint
pronunciation of words was such a delight--and the phrases he would pick up and remember, the
most outlandish and impossible things! The first time that the little rascal burst out with
"God damn," his father nearly rolled off the chair with glee; but in the end he was sorry for
this, for Antanas was soon "God-damning" everything and everybody.

And then, when he was able to use his hands, Jurgis took his bedding again and went back to
his task of shifting rails. It was now April, and the snow had given place to cold rains, and
the unpaved street in front of Aniele's house was turned into a canal. Jurgis would have to
wade through it to get home, and if it was late he might easily get stuck to his waist in the
mire. But he did not mind this much--it was a promise that summer was coming. Marija had now
gotten a place as beef-trimmer in one of the smaller packing plants; and he told himself that
he had learned his lesson now, and would meet with no more accidents--so that at last there
was prospect of an end to their long agony. They could save money again, and when another winter
came they would have a comfortable place; and the children would be off the streets and in
school again, and they might set to work to nurse back into life their habits of decency and
kindness. So once more Jurgis began to make plans and dream dreams.

And then one Saturday night he jumped off the car and started home, with the sun shining low
under the edge of a bank of clouds that had been pouring floods of water into the mud-soaked
street. There was a rainbow in the sky, and another in his breast--for he had thirty-six hours'
rest before him, and a chance to see his family. Then suddenly he came in sight of the house,
and noticed that there was a crowd before the door. He ran up the steps and pushed his way
in, and saw Aniele's kitchen crowded with excited women. It reminded him so vividly of the
time when he had come home from jail and found Ona dying, that his heart almost stood still.
"What's the matter?" he cried.

A dead silence had fallen in the room, and he saw that every one was staring at him. "What's
the matter?" he exclaimed again.

And then, up in the garret, he heard sounds of wailing, in Marija's voice. He started for the
ladder--and Aniele seized him by the arm. "No, no!" she exclaimed. "Don't go up there!"

"What is it?" he shouted.

And the old woman answered him weakly: "It's Antanas. He's dead. He was drowned out in the street!"

Chapter 22

Jurgis took the news in a peculiar way. He turned deadly pale, but he caught himself, and for
half a minute stood in the middle of the room, clenching his hands tightly and setting his
teeth. Then he pushed Aniele aside and strode into the next room and climbed the ladder.

In the corner was a blanket, with a form half showing beneath it; and beside it lay Elzbieta,
whether crying or in a faint, Jurgis could not tell. Marija was pacing the room, screaming
and wringing her hands. He clenched his hands tighter yet, and his voice was hard as he spoke.

"How did it happen?" he asked.

Marija scarcely heard him in her agony. He repeated the question, louder and yet more harshly.
"He fell off the sidewalk!" she wailed. The sidewalk in front of the house was a platform made
of half-rotten boards, about five feet above the level of the sunken street.

"How did he come to be there?" he demanded.

"He went--he went out to play," Marija sobbed, her voice choking her. "We couldn't make him
stay in. He must have got caught in the mud!"

"Are you sure that he is dead?" he demanded.

"Ai! ai!" she wailed. "Yes; we had the doctor."

Then Jurgis stood a few seconds, wavering. He did not shed a tear. He took one glance more
at the blanket with the little form beneath it, and then turned suddenly to the ladder and
climbed down again. A silence fell once more in the room as he entered. He went straight to
the door, passed out, and started down the street.

When his wife had died, Jurgis made for the nearest saloon, but he did not do that now, though
he had his week's wages in his pocket. He walked and walked, seeing nothing, splashing through
mud and water. Later on he sat down upon a step and hid his face in his hands and for half
an hour or so he did not move. Now and then he would whisper to himself: "Dead! Dead!"

Finally, he got up and walked on again. It was about sunset, and he went on and on until it
was dark, when he was stopped by a railroad crossing. The gates were down, and a long train
of freight cars was thundering by. He stood and watched it; and all at once a wild impulse
seized him, a thought that had been lurking within him, unspoken, unrecognized, leaped into
sudden life. He started down the track, and when he was past the gate-keeper's shanty he sprang
forward and swung himself on to one of the cars.

By and by the train stopped again, and Jurgis sprang down and ran under the car, and hid himself
upon the truck. Here he sat, and when the train started again, he fought a battle with his
soul. He gripped his hands and set his teeth together--he had not wept, and he would not--not
a tear! It was past and over, and he was done with it--he would fling it off his shoulders,
be free of it, the whole business, that night. It should go like a black, hateful nightmare,
and in the morning he would be a new man. And every time that a thought of it assailed him--a
tender memory, a trace of a tear--he rose up, cursing with rage, and pounded it down.

He was fighting for his life; he gnashed his teeth together in his desperation. He had been
a fool, a fool! He had wasted his life, he had wrecked himself, with his accursed weakness;
and now he was done with it--he would tear it out of him, root and branch! There should be
no more tears and no more tenderness; he had had enough of them--they had sold him into slavery!
Now he was going to be free, to tear off his shackles, to rise up and fight. He was glad that
the end had come--it had to come some time, and it was just as well now. This was no world
for women and children, and the sooner they got out of it the better for them. Whatever Antanas
might suffer where he was, he could suffer no more than he would have had he stayed upon earth.
And meantime his father had thought the last thought about him that he meant to; he was going
to think of himself, he was going to fight for himself, against the world that had baffled
him and tortured him!

So he went on, tearing up all the flowers from the garden of his soul, and setting his heel
upon them. The train thundered deafeningly, and a storm of dust blew in his face; but though
it stopped now and then through the night, he clung where he was--he would cling there until
he was driven off, for every mile that he got from Packingtown meant another load from his mind.

Whenever the cars stopped a warm breeze blew upon him, a breeze laden with the perfume of fresh
fields, of honeysuckle and clover. He snuffed it, and it made his heart beat wildly--he was
out in the country again! He was going to live in the country! When the dawn came he was peering
out with hungry eyes, getting glimpses of meadows and woods and rivers. At last he could stand
it no longer, and when the train stopped again he crawled out. Upon the top of the car was
a brakeman, who shook his fist and swore; Jurgis waved his hand derisively, and started across
the country.

Only think that he had been a countryman all his life; and for three long years he had never
seen a country sight nor heard a country sound! Excepting for that one walk when he left jail,
when he was too much worried to notice anything, and for a few times that he had rested in
the city parks in the winter time when he was out of work, he had literally never seen a tree!
And now he felt like a bird lifted up and borne away upon a gale; he stopped and stared at
each new sight of wonder--at a herd of cows, and a meadow full of daisies, at hedgerows set
thick with June roses, at little birds singing in the trees.

Then he came to a farm-house, and after getting himself a stick for protection, he approached
it. The farmer was greasing a wagon in front of the barn, and Jurgis went to him. "I would
like to get some breakfast, please," he said.

"Do you want to work?" said the farmer.

"No," said Jurgis. "I don't."

"Then you can't get anything here," snapped the other.

"I meant to pay for it," said Jurgis.

"Oh," said the farmer; and then added sarcastically, "We don't serve breakfast after 7 A.M."

"I am very hungry," said Jurgis gravely; "I would like to buy some food."

"Ask the woman," said the farmer, nodding over his shoulder. The "woman" was more tractable,
and for a dime Jurgis secured two thick sandwiches and a piece of pie and two apples. He walked
off eating the pie, as the least convenient thing to carry. In a few minutes he came to a stream,
and he climbed a fence and walked down the bank, along a woodland path. By and by he found
a comfortable spot, and there he devoured his meal, slaking his thirst at the stream. Then
he lay for hours, just gazing and drinking in joy; until at last he felt sleepy, and lay down
in the shade of a bush.

When he awoke the sun was shining hot in his face. He sat up and stretched his arms, and then
gazed at the water sliding by. There was a deep pool, sheltered and silent, below him, and
a sudden wonderful idea rushed upon him. He might have a bath! The water was free, and he might
get into it--all the way into it! It would be the first time that he had been all the way into
the water since he left Lithuania!

When Jurgis had first come to the stockyards he had been as clean as any workingman could well
be. But later on, what with sickness and cold and hunger and discouragement, and the filthiness
of his work, and the vermin in his home, he had given up washing in winter, and in summer only
as much of him as would go into a basin. He had had a shower bath in jail, but nothing since--and
now he would have a swim!

The water was warm, and he splashed about like a very boy in his glee. Afterward he sat down
in the water near the bank, and proceeded to scrub himself--soberly and methodically, scouring
every inch of him with sand. While he was doing it he would do it thoroughly, and see how it
felt to be clean. He even scrubbed his head with sand, and combed what the men called "crumbs"
out of his long, black hair, holding his head under water as long as he could, to see if he
could not kill them all. Then, seeing that the sun was still hot, he took his clothes from
the bank and proceeded to wash them, piece by piece; as the dirt and grease went floating off
downstream he grunted with satisfaction and soused the clothes again, venturing even to dream
that he might get rid of the fertilizer.

He hung them all up, and while they were drying he lay down in the sun and had another long
sleep. They were hot and stiff as boards on top, and a little damp on the underside, when he
awakened; but being hungry, he put them on and set out again. He had no knife, but with some
labor he broke himself a good stout club, and, armed with this, he marched down the road again.

Before long he came to a big farmhouse, and turned up the lane that led to it. It was just
suppertime, and the farmer was washing his hands at the kitchen door. "Please, sir," said Jurgis,
"can I have something to eat? I can pay." To which the farmer responded promptly, "We don't
feed tramps here. Get out!"

Jurgis went without a word; but as he passed round the barn he came to a freshly ploughed and
harrowed field, in which the farmer had set out some young peach trees; and as he walked he
jerked up a row of them by the roots, more than a hundred trees in all, before he reached the
end of the field. That was his answer, and it showed his mood; from now on he was fighting,
and the man who hit him would get all that he gave, every time.

Beyond the orchard Jurgis struck through a patch of woods, and then a field of winter grain,
and came at last to another road. Before long he saw another farmhouse, and, as it was beginning
to cloud over a little, he asked here for shelter as well as food. Seeing the farmer eying
him dubiously, he added, "I'll be glad to sleep in the barn."

"Well, I dunno," said the other. "Do you smoke?"

"Sometimes," said Jurgis, "but I'll do it out of doors." When the man had assented, he inquired,
"How much will it cost me? I haven't very much money."

"I reckon about twenty cents for supper," replied the farmer. "I won't charge ye for the barn."

So Jurgis went in, and sat down at the table with the farmer's wife and half a dozen children.
It was a bountiful meal--there were baked beans and mashed potatoes and asparagus chopped and
stewed, and a dish of strawberries, and great, thick slices of bread, and a pitcher of milk.
Jurgis had not had such a feast since his wedding day, and he made a mighty effort to put in
his twenty cents' worth.

They were all of them too hungry to talk; but afterward they sat upon the steps and smoked,
and the farmer questioned his guest. When Jurgis had explained that he was a workingman from
Chicago, and that he did not know just whither he was bound, the other said, "Why don't you
stay here and work for me?"

"I'm not looking for work just now," Jurgis answered.

"I'll pay ye good," said the other, eying his big form--"a dollar a day and board ye. Help's
terrible scarce round here."

"Is that winter as well as summer?" Jurgis demanded quickly.

"N--no," said the farmer; "I couldn't keep ye after November--I ain't got a big enough place
for that."

"I see," said the other, "that's what I thought. When you get through working your horses this
fall, will you turn them out in the snow?" (Jurgis was beginning to think for himself nowadays.)

"It ain't quite the same," the farmer answered, seeing the point. "There ought to be work a
strong fellow like you can find to do, in the cities, or some place, in the winter time."

"Yes," said Jurgis, "that's what they all think; and so they crowd into the cities, and when
they have to beg or steal to live, then people ask 'em why they don't go into the country,
where help is scarce." The farmer meditated awhile.

"How about when your money's gone?" he inquired, finally. "You'll have to, then, won't you?"

"Wait till she's gone," said Jurgis; "then I'll see."

He had a long sleep in the barn and then a big breakfast of coffee and bread and oatmeal and
stewed cherries, for which the man charged him only fifteen cents, perhaps having been influenced
by his arguments. Then Jurgis bade farewell, and went on his way.

Such was the beginning of his life as a tramp. It was seldom he got as fair treatment as from
this last farmer, and so as time went on he learned to shun the houses and to prefer sleeping
in the fields. When it rained he would find a deserted building, if he could, and if not, he
would wait until after dark and then, with his stick ready, begin a stealthy approach upon
a barn. Generally he could get in before the dog got scent of him, and then he would hide in
the hay and be safe until morning; if not, and the dog attacked him, he would rise up and make
a retreat in battle order. Jurgis was not the mighty man he had once been, but his arms were
still good, and there were few farm dogs he needed to hit more than once.

Before long there came raspberries, and then blackberries, to help him save his money; and
there were apples in the orchards and potatoes in the ground--he learned to note the places
and fill his pockets after dark. Twice he even managed to capture a chicken, and had a feast,
once in a deserted barn and the other time in a lonely spot alongside of a stream. When all
of these things failed him he used his money carefully, but without worry--for he saw that
he could earn more whenever he chose. Half an hour's chopping wood in his lively fashion was
enough to bring him a meal, and when the farmer had seen him working he would sometimes try
to bribe him to stay.

But Jurgis was not staying. He was a free man now, a buccaneer. The old wanderlust had got
into his blood, the joy of the unbound life, the joy of seeking, of hoping without limit. There
were mishaps and discomforts--but at least there was always something new; and only think what
it meant to a man who for years had been penned up in one place, seeing nothing but one dreary
prospect of shanties and factories, to be suddenly set loose beneath the open sky, to behold
new landscapes, new places, and new people every hour! To a man whose whole life had consisted
of doing one certain thing all day, until he was so exhausted that he could only lie down and
sleep until the next day--and to be now his own master, working as he pleased and when he pleased,
and facing a new adventure every hour!

Then, too, his health came back to him, all his lost youthful vigor, his joy and power that
he had mourned and forgotten! It came with a sudden rush, bewildering him, startling him; it
was as if his dead childhood had come back to him, laughing and calling! What with plenty to
eat and fresh air and exercise that was taken as it pleased him, he would waken from his sleep
and start off not knowing what to do with his energy, stretching his arms, laughing, singing
old songs of home that came back to him. Now and then, of course, he could not help but think
of little Antanas, whom he should never see again, whose little voice he should never hear;
and then he would have to battle with himself. Sometimes at night he would waken dreaming of
Ona, and stretch out his arms to her, and wet the ground with his tears. But in the morning
he would get up and shake himself, and stride away again to battle with the world.

He never asked where he was nor where he was going; the country was big enough, he knew, and
there was no danger of his coming to the end of it. And of course he could always have company
for the asking--everywhere he went there were men living just as he lived, and whom he was
welcome to join. He was a stranger at the business, but they were not clannish, and they taught
him all their tricks--what towns and villages it was best to keep away from, and how to read
the secret signs upon the fences, and when to beg and when to steal, and just how to do both.
They laughed at his ideas of paying for anything with money or with work--for they got all
they wanted without either. Now and then Jurgis camped out with a gang of them in some woodland
haunt, and foraged with them in the neighborhood at night. And then among them some one would
"take a shine" to him, and they would go off together and travel for a week, exchanging reminiscences.

Of these professional tramps a great many had, of course, been shiftless and vicious all their
lives. But the vast majority of them had been workingmen, had fought the long fight as Jurgis
had, and found that it was a losing fight, and given up. Later on he encountered yet another
sort of men, those from whose ranks the tramps were recruited, men who were homeless and wandering,
but still seeking work--seeking it in the harvest fields. Of these there was an army, the huge
surplus labor army of society; called into being under the stern system of nature, to do the
casual work of the world, the tasks which were transient and irregular, and yet which had to
be done. They did not know that they were such, of course; they only knew that they sought
the job, and that the job was fleeting. In the early summer they would be in Texas, and as
the crops were ready they would follow north with the season, ending with the fall in Manitoba.
Then they would seek out the big lumber camps, where there was winter work; or failing in this,
would drift to the cities, and live upon what they had managed to save, with the help of such
transient work as was there the loading and unloading of steamships and drays, the digging
of ditches and the shoveling of snow. If there were more of them on hand than chanced to be
needed, the weaker ones died off of cold and hunger, again according to the stern system of nature.

It was in the latter part of July, when Jurgis was in Missouri, that he came upon the harvest
work. Here were crops that men had worked for three or four months to prepare, and of which
they would lose nearly all unless they could find others to help them for a week or two. So
all over the land there was a cry for labor--agencies were set up and all the cities were drained
of men, even college boys were brought by the carload, and hordes of frantic farmers would
hold up trains and carry off wagonloads of men by main force. Not that they did not pay them
well--any man could get two dollars a day and his board, and the best men could get two dollars
and a half or three.

The harvest-fever was in the very air, and no man with any spirit in him could be in that region
and not catch it. Jurgis joined a gang and worked from dawn till dark, eighteen hours a day,
for two weeks without a break. Then he had a sum of money that would have been a fortune to
him in the old days of misery--but what could he do with it now? To be sure he might have put
it in a bank, and, if he were fortunate, get it back again when he wanted it. But Jurgis was
now a homeless man, wandering over a continent; and what did he know about banking and drafts
and letters of credit? If he carried the money about with him, he would surely be robbed in
the end; and so what was there for him to do but enjoy it while he could? On a Saturday night
he drifted into a town with his fellows; and because it was raining, and there was no other
place provided for him, he went to a saloon. And there were some who treated him and whom he
had to treat, and there was laughter and singing and good cheer; and then out of the rear part
of the saloon a girl's face, red-cheeked and merry, smiled at Jurgis, and his heart thumped
suddenly in his throat. He nodded to her, and she came and sat by him, and they had more drink,
and then he went upstairs into a room with her, and the wild beast rose up within him and screamed,
as it has screamed in the Jungle from the dawn of time. And then because of his memories and
his shame, he was glad when others joined them, men and women; and they had more drink and
spent the night in wild rioting and debauchery. In the van of the surplus-labor army, there
followed another, an army of women, they also struggling for life under the stern system of
nature. Because there were rich men who sought pleasure, there had been ease and plenty for
them so long as they were young and beautiful; and later on, when they were crowded out by
others younger and more beautiful, they went out to follow upon the trail of the workingmen.
Sometimes they came of themselves, and the saloon-keepers shared with them; or sometimes they
were handled by agencies, the same as the labor army. They were in the towns in harvest time,
near the lumber camps in the winter, in the cities when the men came there; if a regiment were
encamped, or a railroad or canal being made, or a great exposition getting ready, the crowd
of women were on hand, living in shanties or saloons or tenement rooms, sometimes eight or
ten of them together.

In the morning Jurgis had not a cent, and he went out upon the road again. He was sick and
disgusted, but after the new plan of his life, he crushed his feelings down. He had made a
fool of himself, but he could not help it now--all he could do was to see that it did not happen
again. So he tramped on until exercise and fresh air banished his headache, and his strength
and joy returned. This happened to him every time, for Jurgis was still a creature of impulse,
and his pleasures had not yet become business. It would be a long time before he could be like
the majority of these men of the road, who roamed until the hunger for drink and for women
mastered them, and then went to work with a purpose in mind, and stopped when they had the
price of a spree.

On the contrary, try as he would, Jurgis could not help being made miserable by his conscience.
It was the ghost that would not down. It would come upon him in the most unexpected places--sometimes
it fairly drove him to drink.

One night he was caught by a thunderstorm, and he sought shelter in a little house just outside
of a town. It was a working-man's home, and the owner was a Slav like himself, a new emigrant
from White Russia; he bade Jurgis welcome in his home language, and told him to come to the
kitchen-fire and dry himself. He had no bed for him, but there was straw in the garret, and
he could make out. The man's wife was cooking the supper, and their children were playing about
on the floor. Jurgis sat and exchanged thoughts with him about the old country, and the places
where they had been and the work they had done. Then they ate, and afterward sat and smoked
and talked more about America, and how they found it. In the middle of a sentence, however,
Jurgis stopped, seeing that the woman had brought a big basin of water and was proceeding to
undress her youngest baby. The rest had crawled into the closet where they slept, but the baby
was to have a bath, the workingman explained. The nights had begun to be chilly, and his mother,
ignorant as to the climate in America, had sewed him up for the winter; then it had turned
warm again, and some kind of a rash had broken out on the child. The doctor had said she must
bathe him every night, and she, foolish woman, believed him.

Jurgis scarcely heard the explanation; he was watching the baby. He was about a year old, and
a sturdy little fellow, with soft fat legs, and a round ball of a stomach, and eyes as black
as coals. His pimples did not seem to bother him much, and he was wild with glee over the bath,
kicking and squirming and chuckling with delight, pulling at his mother's face and then at
his own little toes. When she put him into the basin he sat in the midst of it and grinned,
splashing the water over himself and squealing like a little pig. He spoke in Russian, of which
Jurgis knew some; he spoke it with the quaintest of baby accents--and every word of it brought
back to Jurgis some word of his own dead little one, and stabbed him like a knife. He sat perfectly
motionless, silent, but gripping his hands tightly, while a storm gathered in his bosom and
a flood heaped itself up behind his eyes. And in the end he could bear it no more, but buried
his face in his hands and burst into tears, to the alarm and amazement of his hosts. Between
the shame of this and his woe Jurgis could not stand it, and got up and rushed out into the rain.

He went on and on down the road, finally coming to a black woods, where he hid and wept as
if his heart would break. Ah, what agony was that, what despair, when the tomb of memory was
rent open and the ghosts of his old life came forth to scourge him! What terror to see what
he had been and now could never be--to see Ona and his child and his own dead self stretching
out their arms to him, calling to him across a bottomless abyss--and to know that they were
gone from him forever, and he writhing and suffocating in the mire of his own vileness!

Chapter 23

Early in the fall Jurgis set out for Chicago again. All the joy went out of tramping as soon
as a man could not keep warm in the hay; and, like many thousands of others, he deluded himself
with the hope that by coming early he could avoid the rush. He brought fifteen dollars with
him, hidden away in one of his shoes, a sum which had been saved from the saloon-keepers, not
so much by his conscience, as by the fear which filled him at the thought of being out of work
in the city in the winter time.

He traveled upon the railroad with several other men, hiding in freight cars at night, and
liable to be thrown off at any time, regardless of the speed of the train. When he reached
the city he left the rest, for he had money and they did not, and he meant to save himself
in this fight. He would bring to it all the skill that practice had brought him, and he would
stand, whoever fell. On fair nights he would sleep in the park or on a truck or an empty barrel
or box, and when it was rainy or cold he would stow himself upon a shelf in a ten-cent lodginghouse,
or pay three cents for the privileges of a "squatter" in a tenement hallway. He would eat at
free lunches, five cents a meal, and never a cent more--so he might keep alive for two months
and more, and in that time he would surely find a job. He would have to bid farewell to his
summer cleanliness, of course, for he would come out of the first night's lodging with his
clothes alive with vermin. There was no place in the city where he could wash even his face,
unless he went down to the lake front--and there it would soon be all ice.

First he went to the steel mill and the harvester works, and found that his places there had
been filled long ago. He was careful to keep away from the stockyards--he was a single man
now, he told himself, and he meant to stay one, to have his wages for his own when he got a
job. He began the long, weary round of factories and warehouses, tramping all day, from one
end of the city to the other, finding everywhere from ten to a hundred men ahead of him. He
watched the newspapers, too--but no longer was he to be taken in by smooth-spoken agents. He
had been told of all those tricks while "on the road."

In the end it was through a newspaper that he got a job, after nearly a month of seeking. It
was a call for a hundred laborers, and though he thought it was a "fake," he went because the
place was near by. He found a line of men a block long, but as a wagon chanced to come out
of an alley and break the line, he saw his chance and sprang to seize a place. Men threatened
him and tried to throw him out, but he cursed and made a disturbance to attract a policeman,
upon which they subsided, knowing that if the latter interfered it would be to "fire" them all.

An hour or two later he entered a room and confronted a big Irishman behind a desk.

"Ever worked in Chicago before?" the man inquired; and whether it was a good angel that put
it into Jurgis's mind, or an intuition of his sharpened wits, he was moved to answer, "No, sir."

"Where do you come from?"

"Kansas City, sir."

"Any references?"

"No, sir. I'm just an unskilled man. I've got good arms."

"I want men for hard work--it's all underground, digging tunnels for telephones. Maybe it won't
suit you."

"I'm willing, sir--anything for me. What's the pay?"

"Fifteen cents an hour."

"I'm willing, sir."

"All right; go back there and give your name."

So within half an hour he was at work, far underneath the streets of the city. The tunnel was
a peculiar one for telephone wires; it was about eight feet high, and with a level floor nearly
as wide. It had innumerable branches--a perfect spider web beneath the city; Jurgis walked
over half a mile with his gang to the place where they were to work. Stranger yet, the tunnel
was lighted by electricity, and upon it was laid a double-tracked, narrow-gauge railroad!

But Jurgis was not there to ask questions, and he did not give the matter a thought. It was
nearly a year afterward that he finally learned the meaning of this whole affair. The City
Council had passed a quiet and innocent little bill allowing a company to construct telephone
conduits under the city streets; and upon the strength of this, a great corporation had proceeded
to tunnel all Chicago with a system of railway freight-subways. In the city there was a combination
of employers, representing hundreds of millions of capital, and formed for the purpose of crushing
the labor unions. The chief union which troubled it was the teamsters'; and when these freight
tunnels were completed, connecting all the big factories and stores with the railroad depots,
they would have the teamsters' union by the throat. Now and then there were rumors and murmurs
in the Board of Aldermen, and once there was a committee to investigate--but each time another
small fortune was paid over, and the rumors died away; until at last the city woke up with
a start to find the work completed. There was a tremendous scandal, of course; it was found
that the city records had been falsified and other crimes committed, and some of Chicago's
big capitalists got into jail--figuratively speaking. The aldermen declared that they had had
no idea of it all, in spite of the fact that the main entrance to the work had been in the
rear of the saloon of one of them.

