To the accomplished lover great and wonderful is prayer; the more completely the mind and heart
are lifted up in it, the slower the wording. The greater the prayer, the shorter in words,
though the longer the saying of it, for each syllable will needs be held up upon the soul before
God, slowly and, as it were, in a casket of fire, and with marvellous joy. And there are prayers
without words, and others without even thoughts, in which the soul in a great stillness passes
up like an incense to the Most High. This is very pure, great love; wonderful, high bliss.

* * *

In the earlier stages of progress, when the heart and mind suffer from frequent inconstancy,
loss of warmth, even total losses of love, set the heart and mind to recall to themselves by
reading or thinking some favourite aspect of their Lord Jesus Christ. It may be His gentleness,
or His marvellous forgiveness, as to Peter when "He turned and looked at him" after the denial;
for so He turns and looks upon ourselves. Or it may be His sweetness that most draws us. But
let us fasten the heart and mind upon whichever it may be, and in the warmth of admiration
love will return to us.

* * *

The mode of entrance into active contemplation I would try to convey in this way. The body
must be placed either sitting or kneeling, and supported, or flat on the back as though dead.
Now the mind must commence to fold itself, closing forwards as an open rose might close her
petals to a bud again, for every thought and image must be laid away and nothing left but a
great forward-moving love intention. Out glides the mind all smooth and swift, and plunges
deep, then takes an upward curve and up and on till willingly it faints, the creature dies,
and consciousness is taken over by the soul, which, quickly coming to the trysting-place, spreads
herself and there awaits the revelations of her God. To my feeling this final complete passing
over of consciousness from the mind to the soul is by act and will of God only, and cannot
be performed by will of the creature, and is the fundamental difference between the contemplation
of Nature and the contemplation of God. The creature worships, but the soul alone knows contact.
And yet the mode of contemplation is a far simpler thing than all these words--it is the very
essence of simplicity itself; and in this sublime adventure we are really conscious of no mode
nor plan nor flight, nought but the mighty need of spirit to Spirit and love to Love.

* * *

The picking out and choosing of certain persons, and the naming of them "elect" and "chosen"
souls, when I first read of it, filled me with such a sinking that I tried, when coming upon
the words, not to admit the meaning of them into myself; for that some should be chosen and
some not I felt to be favouritism, and could not understand or see the justice of it. I never
ask questions. He left me in this condition for eighteen months. Then He led me to an explanation
sufficient for me. The way He showed it me was not by comparisons with great things--angels
and saints and holy persons; but by that humble creature, man's friend, the dog, He showed
me the elect creature. It was this way.

One evening as I passed through the city I had one of those sudden strong impulses (by which
He guides us) to go to a certain and particular cinematograph exhibition. I was very tired,
and tried to put away the thought, but it pressed in the way that I know, and I knew it better
to go. I sat for an hour seeing things that had no interest for me, and wondering why I should
have had to come, when at last a film was shown of war-dogs in training--dogs trained especially
to assist men and to carry their messages.

These dogs were especially selected, not for their charm of outward appearance, but for their
inward capacities; not for an especial love of the dog (or favouritism), but for that which
they were willing to learn how to do. The qualifications for (s)election were willingness,
obedience, fidelity, endurance. Once chosen they were set apart. Then commenced the training,
and we were shown how man put his will through the dog: he was able to do this only because
of the willingness of the dog. The purport of the training was to carry a message for his master
wherever his master willed. He must go instantly and at full speed; he must leap any obstacle;
he must turn away from his own kind if they should entice him to linger on the way; he must
subdue all his natural desires and instincts entirely to his master's desires; he must be indifferent
to danger. And to secure this he was fired over by numbers of men, difficulties were set for
him, and he was distracted from his straight course by a number of tests. Yet we saw the brave
and faithful creatures running on their way at their fullest speed until, exhausted and breathless
but filled with joy of love and willingness, they reached the journey's end, to be caressed
and cared for beyond other dogs until the next occasion should arise. Then we were shown the
dog in his fully-trained condition. His master could now always rely upon him. A dog always
ready, always faithful and self-forgetful, was then set apart into a still smaller and more
(s)elect group and surrounded with most especial care and love. Never would it want for anything.
In this there was justice. Forsaking all their natural ways, these dogs had submitted themselves
wholly, in loving willingness, to their master's will, and he in return would lavish all his
best on them. It was but just. Oh, how my heart leaped over it! At last I understood--for as
the dog, so the human creature. We become chosen souls, not for our own sakes (which had always
seemed to me such favouritism), but for our willingness to learn our Master's Will. And what
is His will and what is His work? Of many, many kinds, and this is shown to the soul in her
training. But the hardest to learn is not that of the worker, but of the messenger and lover.
As the messenger, to take His messages, in whatever direction, instantly and correctly, and
to take back the answer from man to Himself--which is to say, to hold before Him the needs
of man on the fire of the soul, known to most persons under the name of prayer. And as the
lover, to sing to Him with never-failing joyful love and thanks.

But the learning and work of the soul is not so simple as that of the dog, who carries the
message in writing upon his collar. The soul can have no written paper to assist her, and long
and painful is her training; and exquisitely sweet it is when, having swiftly and accurately
taken the message, she waits before Him for the rapture of those caresses that she knows so well.

How I was spurred! For I said, "Shall dogs outdo us in love and devotion?" Only in a condition
of total submission, self-forgetfulness, self-abnegation, can the soul either receive or deliver
her message. In this way she is justified of the joys of her election. The dog, faithful in
all ways to his master, receives in return all praise and all meats, whatever he desires. The
faithful soul also receives all praise and all meats, both spiritual and carnal, for nothing
of earthly needs will lack her if she asks; and without asking, her needs are mysteriously
and completely given her.

