And this will help us to estimate at its true value the argument which lost John Henry Newman
to rational religion and won him for Roman Catholicism.  What finally decided him that the
Ultramontane version of religion was the true one, was the famous Securus judicat orbis terrarum
of Augustine.  The verdict of the world is against you, he had urged against the Donatists,
and what was conclusive against them appeared to be conclusive against Anglicans, who could
only appeal for support to their own kith and kindred.  However that may be, what answer is
forthcoming to the retort which the phenomena of to-day unmistakably suggest?  If the universal
consent of the fourth century, semi-barbarous, uneducated, profoundly credulous, and avowedly
uncritical, serves to prove the truth of that form of Gnosticism known as orthodoxy, what are
we to say of the uniform rejection of it, as such, by the decidedly cultivated intellect of
the nineteenth century? If the prior unanimity was adequate to prove its dogmatic truth, why
should not the spectacle offered by educated Europe and America be sufficient to show its groundlessness?
Whatever it may be to "babes" and "little ones" to whom it loves to appeal from the "undue
exaltation of intellect" which can see no basis whatsoever on which to rest the historical
Christianity of the Churches, certain it is to those who know, it is among those things which
"have their day and cease to be". It cannot be a cathedral vast as the race, it can never be
more than a system among systems, a chapel isolated in the infinite.

The truth of this will be more clearly seen if we reflect on the nature of the claim of the
Churches to be in exclusive possession of Divine knowledge, the sole revealer of God to man.
Ever since the words of the Gnostic gospeller, "He shall lead you unto all truth," were written,
it has been claimed that the authentic medium of Divine communications has been a corporation
or a book, one or the other being affirmed to be an exhaustive and infallible philosophy of
God and man. Solomon is said to have had grievous misgivings as to the Lord of heaven and earth
being enclosed within the temple he had built, but no such anxieties beset the framers of the
Nicene or Athanasian Creeds, or their imitators in subsequent ages.  What a spectacle for gods
and men! "All truth" summed up in Thirty-nine Articles, or a score of Oecumenical Councils!
It is the profanity, I had almost said the sacrilege, of it, which is so shocking to the instinctive
reverence of our minds.  And what truths, too, are commended to our keeping in these canons
and articles!  Beginning with the natural depravity of human affections, purposely inflicted
upon us because of another's transgression, we are taught, as a direct corollary from this,
that the Deity is no more moral in his emotions than ourselves; for, in order to right the
first wrong, he is made to perpetrate another which no one would hesitate to pronounce immoral
in us, viz., the chastisement of the innocent in the place of the guilty.  We need say nothing
of the lie direct and overwhelming which the unanswerable facts of science, in many of its
departments, give to the whole story of "the fall" of a first man, and the consequent superstructure
which the perverse ingenuity of man has erected upon it.  We need only confine ourselves to
the plain fact that the so-called scheme is an outrage upon the ethical nature of man, and
therefore that it can never have emanated from God.  In the latest explanations of "the Atonement,"
the Anglican theologians explain it away, "the redemption" of Jesus being no more than the
example of his saintly life and his uncomplaining submission to death.  The angry God, who
will not relax his frown save at the sight of blood, is conveniently forgotten in the more
refined circles of ecclesiasticism, and is now left to the meditations of Little Bethel or
Breton peasants.

And this is a Divine revelation, a heavenly system of truth so far beyond human reason, and
so intrinsically unrelated to any of our faculties, that it could never have been discovered
by man's intelligence, but only preternaturally communicated from without!  To Paul, who is
alone responsible for the famous scheme, this is the "wisdom hidden from the ages, which none
of the princes of this world ever knew"--his peculiar way of describing the superiority of
his teaching to that of the Greek masters like Plato and Aristotle.  But the civilised world--the
orbis terrarum of the nineteenth century--holds with Socrates that the moral law is supreme
over gods and men, and believes that Mill and Carlyle are safer guides when they teach, that
no less than the best moral emotion discoverable in man may be ascribed to the God of men.
"Depend upon it," says the great man of his hero, Frederick the Great, "it is flatly inconceivable
that moral emotion could have been put into him by an entity which had none of its own."

Meanwhile, if the universe be good at heart, if reason be indeed its soul, the tendencies of
modern thought must be leading mankind to some predestined end.  The movements known to history
as the Renaissance, Reformation and Revolution, accomplished results which must endure to all
time; they marked the great stages in humanity's onward march. To-day, when systems and schemes
of religion are going to pieces like the dust of the dead, when mystery and miracle are becoming
unthinkable things in a world where all is law; when the most imposing pretensions are subjected
to so minute and pitiless an analysis; when every dogma of council or creed can be tracked
and traced with an unerring precision to root ideas which govern the human mind in its undeveloped
stages; to-day, when, in spite of the destructive work being done, a reverence and a true zeal
for truth reigns as it never did before in this world's history, when the sense of the responsibility
and solemnity of life weighs upon men so profoundly, there must, I say, be some goal towards
which humanity is moving, there must be some synthesis which shall reconcile for them their
aspirations and their knowledge, some harmony which shall resolve the discordant notes of life--in
a word, there must be some

        Far-off, Divine event
  Towards which the whole creation moves.

What is that event?  Unless a man is prepared to say that the present chaotic condition of
religious thought is to perpetuate itself, or that we are to revert to the ideal of mediaevalism--a
world iron-bound by the dogmatism of self-appointed representatives of "all truth,"--or unless
we are to expect a mental paralysis consequent upon a universal scepticism, there must be some
definite bourne for which the forces now at work in humanity are making.  We are not able to
believe in the perpetuity of an unstable equilibrium in the world of mind any more than in
the universe of matter, nor does history show any warrant for the expectation that the world
will return to the discarded ideal of a mediaeval theocracy, nor does the language of modern
agnosticism, with its hesitations and falterings, encourage one to believe that therein is
a solution, complete and final, of those obstinate questionings which beset us.  No; we believe
with Kant in the indestructibility of the religious sentiment.  We hold that if the soul of
man have not whereon to feed, it will feed upon itself to its own destruction.  We are persuaded
that the Infinite which is necessary to explain the finite, is alone adequate to satisfy its
desires.  Our faith is in a "religion within the boundaries of mere reason".

In the first place, its beliefs are the one element of truth in all the "little systems" of
this and of all time.  It is here they touch the confines of the eternal.  It is in this centre
of changeless truth that all their wandering, broken lights do meet.  This is the one reality
behind the phantoms and phenomena wherewith they have been perplexing and confusing man's thoughts;
it is at the same time the great ideal, the passion for which is the star of life.

What a majestic source of unity is there here!  The soul positively thrills at the thought
of the boundless possibilities of good which centre in this conception of religion.  That which
the faiths of the world aspired to do, might hope to become an accomplished fact did their
votaries believe with Shelley that only

  The One remains, the many change and pass;

did they obey the ancient prophet's command, "Depart from your idols". For what are all the
current creeds and orthodoxies of every age and land but so many "idols of the market place,"
veritable simulacra or images of something ineffable, beyond the power of man's mind to completely
conceive, or of his stammering tongue to utter?  They served their purpose in the childhood
of humanity, they were schoolmasters to train it to higher things, tabernacles of skins wherein
to enshrine the Holy of Holies in rude and uncultured times.  But now that humanity is reaching
the full stature of its manhood, is it not time to preach from the house-tops what philosophers
have been thinking ever since the emancipation of European intellect, aye and before it too,
in the great Moorish schools, which sprung up before the scholasticism of the middle ages?
Is it not time that intelligent clergymen of every school in Christendom should openly declare
in their pulpits what they think, believe and discuss in the privacies of their studies?

If truth is the one thing which never yet did men any harm, tell them that the universe is
not built upon the narrow plan they had been taught of old; that its age is immeasurable; that
man has been an inhabitant of this fragment of it for a hundred thousand years at least; that
there never was any such being as a first man, some seven thousand years old; that his existence,
his history, is a myth, traced upon the cylinders of Babylon; that man never fell except to
himself and his own conscience; that the "redemption" scheme is an idiosyncrasy of Paul; that
a priesthood is avowedly a pagan conception, and sacrifice a relic of barbarism.  Tell them
this, for you know it is true, and that your creeds and confessions are false.  Speak out as
your conscience bids you speak, that yours is no temple of truth, no cathedral vast enough
to hold the race, nothing but the dim shadow of a great reality, one of "the many which change
and pass," a spot in boundless space, "a chapel in the infinite".

For the truth of rational religion is that into which all that is true in lesser faiths resolves
itself.  Where they agree with it they are in agreement amongst themselves.  Where they depart
from it, there begins discord--sure sign of error--the confusion and strife of tongues, the
jangling contradictions of men.  Are we then dangerously out of the way in believing that that
wherein all the sons of men unite is the veritable goal towards which they are consciously
or unconsciously reaching--

  Tendentes manus ripae ulterioris amore?

And there is one other unmistakable evidence that the stream of tendency is in our direction.
I allude to the predominant influence in our age of science, not merely physical, but science
in all its departments.  It is welcome to us as the very handwriting of the Eternal, as a revelation
of the workings of the Infinite Mind.  Every new discovery is welcomed by us as a further revelation
of the Being who "is for ever reason".

But to the "little systems" science can only be welcome in so far as it fits in with the petty
scale upon which their theologies and theosophies have constructed the universe.  At first,
everything is passionately denied, a cry of horror goes up in the land that science is engaged
in an attempt to dethrone the God of their theology.  And then a few years elapse, and for
very shame's sake they set about explaining how that the "God of knowledge" [1] has much in
common with their theosophical Deity, and that by a dexterous manipulation of infallible texts
and articles of religion, a modus vivendi may be arranged between the two.  This is the kind
of dialectic that goes on at every Church Congress--men who know in their hearts that the "inspired"
anthropology of the Bible is contradicted, fully, flatly, irreconcilably, by the undeniable
facts discovered by science, continue to mystify themselves and their hearers alike by all
the pleadings, glosses, evasions and refinements at their command, with a view to what they
call a "reconciliation between science and religion".

Science and religion, we protest, need no reconciliation, for they never were at war.  Not
religion, but pseudo-philosophy and so-called theology--this it is to which science is an implacable
and irreconcilable foe.  And she will never cease from her determined opposition until the
ecclesiastical idol vacates the very last niche it occupies in its "chapel," clothes itself
with the white robe of contrition, and sits humbly upon the stool of repentance awaiting a
scientific absolution.

For us, such reconciliation is an unmeaning phrase.  We never professed to follow aught but
reason's kindly light, for that we know to be the Divine Light in us.  And, therefore, all
that comes to us in reason's name, comes accredited, as though from the innermost court of
the Great Presence itself.  We discard nothing but what offends reason and its ascertained
laws; we bring everything before its bar.  Science is to us a Divine revelation, its teachings
are among our inspired literature. No need therefore of reconciliation between religion and
science when we resolve both, as in a final synthesis, into the root fact of all this wondrous
universe--eternal reason.  And because of this, a faith such as ours is part of the order of
imperishable realities, for the kingdom of reason, like the throne of the Eternal, is for ever
and ever.

[1] Deus Scientiarum Dominus.

XVII.

"THE OVER-SOUL."

The most serious errors in the philosophical and religious domains are generally found to be
nothing but the exaggeration, or the minimising, of a truth, very much as evil, physical and
moral, is often the privation of a corresponding good, the absence of something which ought
to be present.  Year by year the vast majority of religionists in this Western world are seriously
engaged in the commemoration of a transcendent mystery, the humanisation, or incarnation, of
the Deity in the person of the Prophet of Nazara.  As might be expected, the upholders of this
belief are by no means all agreed as to the manner in which this momentous event came about,
and, while there are many prepared to speak of "Our Lord Jesus Christ"--and we certainly feel
no difficulty in so speaking of an elevated and saintly spirit such as he--all are not prepared
to subscribe to the precise formulation of the mystery as given in an Athanasian creed, or
a homily of a fourth century father.  Beyond admitting in a general and rather vague way that
Jesus is "Divine," many people are not prepared to go.  They would shrink from saying that
he was the Infinite and Eternal, from whom all things derive their being; they see no necessity
for believing in the story of his miracles, or the legendary account of his appearance in this
world; above all, his virginal conception and birth they often repudiate in terms.  They are
coming to see--these open-minded men and women of the Anglican body--that the pre-eminence
of Jesus must rest, not upon miracles, but on morals; that it is not his mystic offices, but
his moral grandeur, which makes him to be so great a figure in history.  In a word, that it
is not his miracles which prove his teaching, but his teaching must authenticate his miracles.

Now, all this is, of course, very hopeful, and makes directly for that reconstruction of religion
on an ethical basis which we conceive it our duty to press upon the attention of our age. 
Venerable to us is the memory and teaching of the last of the noble line of Jewish seers. 
Not one of the masters of the Church ethical, whom we obediently follow, but has exhausted,
one might say, the possibilities of speech in their reverence and admiration for the great
spirit of Jesus.  When Immanuel Kant published the Critique of the Practical Reason, old men
and thinkers of the Fatherland were moved to tears at the thought that the great deliverance
had come at last, that a man had at length arisen who had penetrated to the core the significance
of the great prophet's teaching.  The only true commentator on Jesus and his religion is Immanuel
Kant.  Heretofore, men have followed Paul, Athanasius and Augustine; it is high time the ethics
of Kant were substituted in colleges and seminaries of the clergy, and our ministers of religion
taught to interpret the Gospel from the standpoint of the moral law instead of the imaginary
dogmatics of Paul, and the dialectics of Athanasius and Augustine.

But the doctrine of incarnation unquestionably embodies a great element of truth, which it
were our very serious loss to overlook.  It supplies us with an admirable illustration of what
was asserted in the beginning, namely, that an error is but a truth misstated, either by excess
or defect.  The Christian, or rather the ancient, orthodox presentation of the dogma errs in
both ways.  By excess, because it proclaims a man to be the personal Deity, that the flesh
and blood of a mortal being is adorable, as is the highest Being, with the supreme offices
of religion.  It proclaims that Jesus was not a human individual or person at all, but a Divine
being energising in two natures, the Divine and the human, so that when he used the pronoun
"I," it was the Deity himself, not a man, who spoke.  I say this is a gross misstatement by
exaggeration, unknown to the prophet himself, unknown to his followers and biographers, and
unknown to many Christian writers before the fatal epoch of Athanasius, who emphatically assert
that Jesus is not to be worshipped as the Father.[1]  The doctrine errs also by defect, because
it fails to recognise the divinity of all the sons of the Supreme.  Jesus is made to be exclusively
Divine, the sole possessor of Divine sonship, and only through him are others put in the way
of attaining to the same privilege.  "But as many as received him," says the Alexandrian rhapsodist
who wrote the prologue to the fourth gospel, "he gave them the power or the faculty to be made
the sons of God, as many as believe in his name."

This account of the matter we conceive to be immeasurably below the truth.  No mediator is
needed between the soul and the Soul of our souls; no intercessor or redeemer.  This perverse
conception originated in the supposition that man was, and is, a fallen and a falling being,
owing to the fatal legacy bequeathed by our presumptive parent, Adam; but Genesis being wholly
and avowedly mythical in its opening chapters, the Pauline dialectic in the fifth chapter of
the Romans falls to the ground, and with it the laborious argumentations of the epistle to
the Hebrews, which essays to prove that the most sternly anti-sacerdotal prophet who ever lived
was a full-fledged priest; the man who never conducted a ritualistic service in his life set
forth as "a high priest for ever according to the order of Melchisedech," the only and eternal
redeemer of humanity from the consequences of the misdeeds of an aboriginal parent who had
no existence.  No; before Agamemnon men were brave, before Aristides they were just, before
Jesus they were in their innermost selves divine, and this in essence is the doctrine of the
"Over-soul," associated, as far as this expression goes, with the name of the latest of the
prophets of ethics, Emerson.

We are all incarnations, flesh-takings, of the infinite.  Not only so, but the very unconscious
universe, the silent, but ever-living nature is but the garment which clothes the Invisible,
and in clothing reveals him; the beauty of nature is the veil, growing slenderer with every
fresh access of knowledge, which scarce conceals the Great Presence. Vanini was thrust into
the dungeons of the Inquisition at Naples on a charge of atheism.  "Atheism!" contemptuously
retorted the wretched captive, "I could prove God from that straw," picking up with his feet
a fragment of the bed on which he lay in fetters.  For the universal Life was in the straw.
The life in that slender ear is one with the mighty pulsations of the ocean, the growth of
the forest, and of the world of men, and the illimitable stars beyond.  The being is one, the
life is one, and above all, the mind, the exclusive endowment of man, is one too--one in us,
one in the Supreme; we share it, for "we also are his offspring".  There is only one Soul--the
Divine, and the souls of the sons of men are, not so much images of that, made in its likeness,
as it itself, in essence one, yet, participately, in every human being.  "I have said, ye are
gods, and sons of the Most High, every one," quoted Jesus with approval.  So says Emerson,
and this is his doctrine of the "Over-soul".

After thus indicating in general outline the essential features of this culminating teaching
of ethical religion, it may be well to trace its historical development.  It will be found
to be, not an original speculation of our own teacher, but a precious belief held by elect
souls in all ages to embody the truth of the relations between what is called the Divine and
the human.  I say "called" because this doctrine annihilates the distinction.  As the electricity
in the atmosphere may annihilate space by enabling us to flash a thought instantaneously even
to a world whose distance is measured in millions of miles, so does this sublime conception
of the great Oneness shatter the foundations on which all outside redemptions, priests, sacrifices,
formalisms, rituals, sacraments, devilry, hell fire, and the rest repose, by showing every
man that he is his own priest and sacrificer.  No anointing or ordering can make him more than
he is in himself (not through Christ or any man), the true-born son of God, one in nature with
whatsoever is Highest in existence.  Boldly does Emerson fling out his challenge--

  Draw it thou canst the mystic line,
  Rightly severing his from thine,
  Which is human, which Divine.

We cannot.  In our innermost selves we are Divine.  We may say with Emerson, on the heights
of the holy mount, when we have by long thought realised the truth, and by living the life
which is alone worthy of such a conception, "I the imperfect adore my own Perfect".  We seek
to pray, we would fain worship.  Then look no more into the skies; there is nought but vapour
there and the silent worlds that shine eternally. Look not in the churches and the temples,
for they are made by men's hands, empty of the Divine Presence as a mausoleum is of life. 
Let us look into ourselves for the true Shekinah, the true manifestation of the Divine, nay,
the truly Divine is there.  The Good in man, that is God; that alone is worthy of our adoration
and our love.

I do not think it can be questioned that this is a noble conception of man and God and their
mutual relations, and as far as one can judge of the trend of modern thought, it would appear
that only on some such grounds is the intelligence of the age prepared to recognise theism
as a possible belief.  The conception of the Deity as a Being anterior to creation in existence,
eternally dissevered from it in being, an external object, so to speak, of admiration, reverence
and fear, seems incomprehensible to the modern mind.  It certainly did to the whole idealist
school of Germany, to such thinkers as Hegel, Schelling and Fichte, to deeply religious spirits
like Coleridge and Wordsworth, to Emerson in America, and Carlyle in England.  The "immeasurable
clergyman" [2] view of the Deity, seated somewhere in the skies, and listening all day and
night to the Hallelujah Chorus, is now wholly and absolutely impossible outside little Bethel
and Bibliolatry.

But the truth must be confessed that in refusing to acknowledge what one may call an outside
deity, an "absentee god," who pays periodical visits to his creation and acts only at the instant
request of prayer, we are reverting to religious ideals that had their home in the land of
the Indus and the Ganges, a thousand years before Christianity was heard of.  It is the knowledge
of this fact that fills one with stupefaction when we think of Exeter Hall and the type of
Christian missioner who goes out to assail the venerable beliefs of Hindooism, when our cultivated
men, our Emersons, Coleridges, Carlyles and Wordsworths, are positively reverting to the ideals
of ancient India. The doctrine of the Over-soul, essentially shared in by all men; the belief
that man is not in name, but in reality, not through the vicarious intercessions of another,
but by his own nature, a Divine son, is in essence a form of Hindoo thought, and the recent
translations of their sacred books enable us to read that truth there.

The Jewish conception of the Deity was utterly opposed to this.  In that theology the Supreme
Being was ever transcendent, and probably Jesus, a son of Israel, was not greatly removed from
this belief. "Salvation is of the Jews," he proclaimed.  Certainly there are no indications
in the three earlier gospels of any such teaching as that of Emerson, though it is found, in
suggestion at least, in the fourth gospel.  Christ is made to say in one of those lengthy speeches
at the close of the book, "If any man will keep my words, I will come to him and my Father
will come to him, and we will take up our abode with him;" and again, "I and the Father are
one".  Here is a suggestion, faint enough, of the teaching that the Divine is present in the
hearts of the just, of the ethically good, but there is a world of difference between that
and the essential Divinity of every human soul, because part of the Over-soul, which is one
in all men.  No; Jesus was a son of Israel, and his ideals were those of his race.  The few
words quoted from the fourth gospel are in the spirit of the larger belief, but they are Neo-Platonic
in their origin, as is the whole Johannine gospel, and cannot be taken as fairly representing
the mind of the greatest of the Jewish seers.  If we would see the Eastern teaching in the
West, we must search, not the Old or New Testament, but the pages of the Alexandrian School,
of Philo, and above all, of Plotinus, who believed that the supreme truths were learnt, not
by study, nor by revelation from without, but in an ecstasy of the soul, losing itself in the
contemplation of the Divine--in the "flight of the alone to the Alone".

