In these golden latter August days, Nature has come to a serene equilibrium. Having flowered
and fruited, she is enjoying herself. I can see how things are going: it is a down-hill business
after this; but, for the time being, it is like swinging in a hammock,--such a delicious air,
such a graceful repose! I take off my hat as I stroll into the garden and look about; and it
does seem as if Nature had sounded a truce. I did n't ask for it. I went out with a hoe; but
the serene sweetness disarms me. Thrice is he armed who has a long-handled hoe, with a double
blade. Yet to-day I am almost ashamed to appear in such a belligerent fashion, with this terrible
mitrailleuse of gardening.

The tomatoes are getting tired of ripening, and are beginning to go into a worthless condition,--green.
The cucumbers cumber the ground,--great yellow, over-ripe objects, no more to be compared to
the crisp beauty of their youth than is the fat swine of the sty to the clean little pig. The
nutmeg-melons, having covered themselves with delicate lace-work, are now ready to leave the
vine. I know they are ripe if they come easily off the stem.

Moral Observations.--You can tell when people are ripe by their willingness to let go. Richness
and ripeness are not exactly the same. The rich are apt to hang to the stem with tenacity.
I have nothing against the rich. If I were not virtuous, I should like to be rich. But we cannot
have everything, as the man said when he was down with small-pox and cholera, and the yellow
fever came into the neighborhood.

Now, the grapes, soaked in this liquid gold, called air, begin to turn, mindful of the injunction,
"to turn or burn." The clusters under the leaves are getting quite purple, but look better
than they taste. I think there is no danger but they will be gathered as soon as they are ripe.
One of the blessings of having an open garden is, that I do not have to watch my fruit: a dozen
youngsters do that, and let it waste no time after it matures. I wish it were possible to grow
a variety of grape like the explosive bullets, that should explode in the stomach: the vine
would make such a nice border for the garden,--a masked battery of grape. The pears, too, are
getting russet and heavy; and here and there amid the shining leaves one gleams as ruddy as
the cheek of the Nutbrown Maid. The Flemish Beauties come off readily from the stem, if I take
them in my hand: they say all kinds of beauty come off by handling.

The garden is peace as much as if it were an empire. Even the man's cow lies down under the
tree where the man has tied her, with such an air of contentment, that I have small desire
to disturb her. She is chewing my cud as if it were hers. Well, eat on and chew on, melancholy
brute. I have not the heart to tell the man to take you away: and it would do no good if I
had; he wouldn't do it. The man has not a taking way. Munch on, ruminant creature.

The frost will soon come; the grass will be brown. I will be charitable while this blessed
lull continues: for our benevolences must soon be turned to other and more distant objects,--the
amelioration of the condition of the Jews, the education of theological young men in the West,
and the like.

I do not know that these appearances are deceitful; but I sufficiently know that this is a
wicked world, to be glad that I have taken it on shares. In fact, I could not pick the pears
alone, not to speak of eating them. When I climb the trees, and throw down the dusky fruit,
Polly catches it in her apron; nearly always, however, letting go when it drops, the fall is
so sudden. The sun gets in her face; and, every time a pear comes down it is a surprise, like
having a tooth out, she says.

"If I could n't hold an apron better than that!"

But the sentence is not finished: it is useless to finish that sort of a sentence in this delicious
weather. Besides, conversation is dangerous. As, for instance, towards evening I am preparing
a bed for a sowing of turnips,--not that I like turnips in the least; but this is the season
to sow them. Polly comes out, and extemporizes her usual seat to "consult me" about matters
while I work. I well know that something is coming.

"This is a rotation of crops, is n't it?"

"Yes: I have rotated the gone-to-seed lettuce off, and expect to rotate the turnips in; it
is a political fashion."

"Is n't it a shame that the tomatoes are all getting ripe at once? What a lot of squashes!
I wish we had an oyster-bed. Do you want me to help you any more than I am helping?"

"No, I thank you." (I wonder what all this is about?)

"Don't you think we could sell some strawberries next year?"

"By all means, sell anything. We shall no doubt get rich out of this acre."

"Don't be foolish."

And now!

"Don't you think it would be nice to have a?"....

And Polly unfolds a small scheme of benevolence, which is not quite enough to break me, and
is really to be executed in an economical manner. "Would n't that be nice?"

"Oh, yes! And where is the money to come from?"

"I thought we had agreed to sell the strawberries."

"Certainly. But I think we would make more money if we sold the plants now."

"Well," said Polly, concluding the whole matter, "I am going to do it." And, having thus "consulted"
me, Polly goes away; and I put in the turnip-seeds quite thick, determined to raise enough
to sell. But not even this mercenary thought can ruffle my mind as I rake off the loamy bed.
I notice, however, that the spring smell has gone out of the dirt. That went into the first crop.

In this peaceful unison with yielding nature, I was a little taken aback to find that a new
enemy had turned up. The celery had just rubbed through the fiery scorching of the drought,
and stood a faint chance to grow; when I noticed on the green leaves a big green-and-black
worm, called, I believe, the celery-worm: but I don't know who called him; I am sure I did
not. It was almost ludicrous that he should turn up here, just at the end of the season, when
I supposed that my war with the living animals was over. Yet he was, no doubt, predestinated;
for he went to work as cheerfully as if he had arrived in June, when everything was fresh and
vigorous. It beats me--Nature does. I doubt not, that, if I were to leave my garden now for
a week, it would n't know me on my return. The patch I scratched over for the turnips, and
left as clean as earth, is already full of ambitious "pusley," which grows with all the confidence
of youth and the skill of old age. It beats the serpent as an emblem of immortality. While
all the others of us in the garden rest and sit in comfort a moment, upon the summit of the
summer, it is as rampant and vicious as ever. It accepts no armistice.

FIFTEENTH WEEK

It is said that absence conquers all things, love included; but it has a contrary effect on
a garden. I was absent for two or three weeks. I left my garden a paradise, as paradises go
in this protoplastic world; and when I returned, the trail of the serpent was over it all,
so to speak. (This is in addition to the actual snakes in it, which are large enough to strangle
children of average size.) I asked Polly if she had seen to the garden while I was away, and
she said she had. I found that all the melons had been seen to, and the early grapes and pears.
The green worm had also seen to about half the celery; and a large flock of apparently perfectly
domesticated chickens were roaming over the ground, gossiping in the hot September sun, and
picking up any odd trifle that might be left. On the whole, the garden could not have been
better seen to; though it would take a sharp eye to see the potato-vines amid the rampant grass
and weeds.

The new strawberry-plants, for one thing, had taken advantage of my absence. Every one of them
had sent out as many scarlet runners as an Indian tribe has. Some of them had blossomed; and
a few had gone so far as to bear ripe berries,--long, pear-shaped fruit, hanging like the ear-pendants
of an East Indian bride. I could not but admire the persistence of these zealous plants, which
seemed determined to propagate themselves both by seeds and roots, and make sure of immortality
in some way. Even the Colfax variety was as ambitious as the others. After having seen the
declining letter of Mr. Colfax, I did not suppose that this vine would run any more, and intended
to root it out. But one can never say what these politicians mean; and I shall let this variety
grow until after the next election, at least; although I hear that the fruit is small, and
rather sour. If there is any variety of strawberries that really declines to run, and devotes
itself to a private life of fruit-bearing, I should like to get it. I may mention here, since
we are on politics, that the Doolittle raspberries had sprawled all over the strawberry-bed's:
so true is it that politics makes strange bedfellows.

But another enemy had come into the strawberries, which, after all that has been said in these
papers, I am almost ashamed to mention. But does the preacher in the pulpit, Sunday after Sunday,
year after year, shrink from speaking of sin? I refer, of course, to the greatest enemy of
mankind, "p-sl-y." The ground was carpeted with it. I should think that this was the tenth
crop of the season; and it was as good as the first. I see no reason why our northern soil
is not as prolific as that of the tropics, and will not produce as many crops in the year.
The mistake we make is in trying to force things that are not natural to it. I have no doubt
that, if we turn our attention to "pusley," we can beat the world.

I had no idea, until recently, how generally this simple and thrifty plant is feared and hated.
Far beyond what I had regarded as the bounds of civilization, it is held as one of the mysteries
of a fallen world; accompanying the home missionary on his wanderings, and preceding the footsteps
of the Tract Society. I was not long ago in the Adirondacks. We had built a camp for the night,
in the heart of the woods, high up on John's Brook and near the foot of Mount Marcy: I can
see the lovely spot now. It was on the bank of the crystal, rocky stream, at the foot of high
and slender falls, which poured into a broad amber basin. Out of this basin we had just taken
trout enough for our supper, which had been killed, and roasted over the fire on sharp sticks,
and eaten before they had an opportunity to feel the chill of this deceitful world. We were
lying under the hut of spruce-bark, on fragrant hemlock-boughs, talking, after supper. In front
of us was a huge fire of birchlogs; and over it we could see the top of the falls glistening
in the moonlight; and the roar of the falls, and the brawling of the stream near us, filled
all the ancient woods. It was a scene upon which one would think no thought of sin could enter.
We were talking with old Phelps, the guide. Old Phelps is at once guide, philosopher, and friend.
He knows the woods and streams and mountains, and their savage inhabitants, as well as we know
all our rich relations and what they are doing; and in lonely bear-hunts and sable-trappings
he has thought out and solved most of the problems of life. As he stands in his wood-gear,
he is as grizzly as an old cedar-tree; and he speaks in a high falsetto voice, which would
be invaluable to a boatswain in a storm at sea.

We had been talking of all subjects about which rational men are interested,--bears, panthers,
trapping, the habits of trout, the tariff, the internal revenue (to wit the injustice of laying
such a tax on tobacco, and none on dogs:--"There ain't no dog in the United States," says the
guide, at the top of his voice, "that earns his living"), the Adventists, the Gorner Grat,
Horace Greeley, religion, the propagation of seeds in the wilderness (as, for instance, where
were the seeds lying for ages that spring up into certain plants and flowers as soon as a spot
is cleared anywhere in the most remote forest; and why does a growth of oak-trees always come
up after a growth of pine has been removed?)--in short, we had pretty nearly reached a solution
of many mysteries, when Phelps suddenly exclaimed with uncommon energy,-- "Wall, there's one
thing that beats me!"

"What's that?" we asked with undisguised curiosity.

"That's 'pusley'!" he replied, in the tone of a man who has come to one door in life which
is hopelessly shut, and from which he retires in despair.

"Where it comes from I don't know, nor what to do with it. It's in my garden; and I can't get
rid of it. It beats me."

About "pusley" the guide had no theory and no hope. A feeling of awe came over me, as we lay
there at midnight, hushed by the sound of the stream and the rising wind in the spruce-tops.
Then man can go nowhere that "pusley" will not attend him. Though he camp on the Upper Au Sable,
or penetrate the forest where rolls the Allegash, and hear no sound save his own allegations,
he will not escape it. It has entered the happy valley of Keene, although there is yet no church
there, and only a feeble school part of the year. Sin travels faster than they that ride in
chariots. I take my hoe, and begin; but I feel that I am warring against something whose roots
take hold on H.

By the time a man gets to be eighty, he learns that he is compassed by limitations, and that
there has been a natural boundary set to his individual powers. As he goes on in life, he begins
to doubt his ability to destroy all evil and to reform all abuses, and to suspect that there
will be much left to do after he has done. I stepped into my garden in the spring, not doubting
that I should be easily master of the weeds. I have simply learned that an institution which
is at least six thousand years old, and I believe six millions, is not to be put down in one
season.

I have been digging my potatoes, if anybody cares to know it. I planted them in what are called
"Early Rose,"--the rows a little less than three feet apart; but the vines came to an early
close in the drought. Digging potatoes is a pleasant, soothing occupation, but not poetical.
It is good for the mind, unless they are too small (as many of mine are), when it begets a
want of gratitude to the bountiful earth. What small potatoes we all are, compared with what
we might be! We don't plow deep enough, any of us, for one thing. I shall put in the plow next
year, and give the tubers room enough. I think they felt the lack of it this year: many of
them seemed ashamed to come out so small. There is great pleasure in turning out the brown-jacketed
fellows into the sunshine of a royal September day, and seeing them glisten as they lie thickly
strewn on the warm soil. Life has few such moments. But then they must be picked up. The picking-up,
in this world, is always the unpleasant part of it.

SIXTEENTH WEEK

I do not hold myself bound to answer the question, Does gardening pay? It is so difficult to
define what is meant by paying. There is a popular notion that, unless a thing pays, you had
better let it alone; and I may say that there is a public opinion that will not let a man or
woman continue in the indulgence of a fancy that does not pay. And public opinion is stronger
than the legislature, and nearly as strong as the ten commandments: I therefore yield to popular
clamor when I discuss the profit of my garden.

As I look at it, you might as well ask, Does a sunset pay? I know that a sunset is commonly
looked on as a cheap entertainment; but it is really one of the most expensive. It is true
that we can all have front seats, and we do not exactly need to dress for it as we do for the
opera; but the conditions under which it is to be enjoyed are rather dear. Among them I should
name a good suit of clothes, including some trifling ornament,--not including back hair for
one sex, or the parting of it in the middle for the other. I should add also a good dinner,
well cooked and digestible; and the cost of a fair education, extended, perhaps, through generations
in which sensibility and love of beauty grew. What I mean is, that if a man is hungry and naked,
and half a savage, or with the love of beauty undeveloped in him, a sunset is thrown away on
him: so that it appears that the conditions of the enjoyment of a sunset are as costly as anything
in our civilization.

Of course there is no such thing as absolute value in this world. You can only estimate what
a thing is worth to you. Does gardening in a city pay? You might as well ask if it pays to
keep hens, or a trotting-horse, or to wear a gold ring, or to keep your lawn cut, or your hair
cut. It is as you like it. In a certain sense, it is a sort of profanation to consider if my
garden pays, or to set a money-value upon my delight in it. I fear that you could not put it
in money. Job had the right idea in his mind when he asked, "Is there any taste in the white
of an egg?" Suppose there is not! What! shall I set a price upon the tender asparagus or the
crisp lettuce, which made the sweet spring a reality? Shall I turn into merchandise the red
strawberry, the pale green pea, the high-flavored raspberry, the sanguinary beet, that love-plant
the tomato, and the corn which did not waste its sweetness on the desert air, but, after flowing
in a sweet rill through all our summer life, mingled at last with the engaging bean in a pool
of succotash? Shall I compute in figures what daily freshness and health and delight the garden
yields, let alone the large crop of anticipation I gathered as soon as the first seeds got
above ground? I appeal to any gardening man of sound mind, if that which pays him best in gardening
is not that which he cannot show in his trial-balance. Yet I yield to public opinion, when
I proceed to make such a balance; and I do it with the utmost confidence in figures.

I select as a representative vegetable, in order to estimate the cost of gardening, the potato.
In my statement, I shall not include the interest on the value of the land. I throw in the
land, because it would otherwise have stood idle: the thing generally raised on city land is
taxes. I therefore make the following statement of the cost and income of my potato-crop, a
part of it estimated in connection with other garden labor. I have tried to make it so as to
satisfy the income-tax collector:--

    Plowing.......................................$0.50
    Seed..........................................$1.50
    Manure........................................ 8.00
    Assistance in planting and digging, 3 days.... 6.75
    Labor of self in planting, hoeing, digging,
         picking up, 5 days at 17 cents........... 0.85
                                                 ------
                       Total Cost................$17.60

    Two thousand five hundred mealy potatoes,
         at 2 cents..............................$50.00
    Small potatoes given to neighbor's pig........  .50

                       Total return..............$50.50

                  Balance, profit in cellar......$32.90

Some of these items need explanation. I have charged nothing for my own time waiting for the
potatoes to grow. My time in hoeing, fighting weeds, etc., is put in at five days: it may have
been a little more. Nor have I put in anything for cooling drinks while hoeing. I leave this
out from principle, because I always recommend water to others. I had some difficulty in fixing
the rate of my own wages. It was the first time I had an opportunity of paying what I thought
labor was worth; and I determined to make a good thing of it for once. I figured it right down
to European prices,--seventeen cents a day for unskilled labor. Of course, I boarded myself.
I ought to say that I fixed the wages after the work was done, or I might have been tempted
to do as some masons did who worked for me at four dollars a day. They lay in the shade and
slept the sleep of honest toil full half the time, at least all the time I was away. I have
reason to believe that when the wages of mechanics are raised to eight and ten dollars a day,
the workmen will not come at all: they will merely send their cards.

I do not see any possible fault in the above figures. I ought to say that I deferred putting
a value on the potatoes until I had footed up the debit column. This is always the safest way
to do. I had twenty-five bushels. I roughly estimated that there are one hundred good ones
to the bushel. Making my own market price, I asked two cents apiece for them. This I should
have considered dirt cheap last June, when I was going down the rows with the hoe. If any one
thinks that two cents each is high, let him try to raise them.

Nature is "awful smart." I intend to be complimentary in saying so. She shows it in little
things. I have mentioned my attempt to put in a few modest turnips, near the close of the season.
I sowed the seeds, by the way, in the most liberal manner. Into three or four short rows I
presume I put enough to sow an acre; and they all came up,--came up as thick as grass, as crowded
and useless as babies in a Chinese village. Of course, they had to be thinned out; that is,
pretty much all pulled up; and it took me a long time; for it takes a conscientious man some
time to decide which are the best and healthiest plants to spare. After all, I spared too many.
That is the great danger everywhere in this world (it may not be in the next): things are too
thick; we lose all in grasping for too much. The Scotch say, that no man ought to thin out
his own turnips, because he will not sacrifice enough to leave room for the remainder to grow:
he should get his neighbor, who does not care for the plants, to do it. But this is mere talk,
and aside from the point: if there is anything I desire to avoid in these agricultural papers,
it is digression. I did think that putting in these turnips so late in the season, when general
activity has ceased, and in a remote part of the garden, they would pass unnoticed. But Nature
never even winks, as I can see. The tender blades were scarcely out of the ground when she
sent a small black fly, which seemed to have been born and held in reserve for this purpose,--to
cut the leaves. They speedily made lace-work of the whole bed. Thus everything appears to have
its special enemy,--except, perhaps, p----y: nothing ever troubles that.

Did the Concord Grape ever come to more luscious perfection than this year? or yield so abundantly?
The golden sunshine has passed into them, and distended their purple skins almost to bursting.
Such heavy clusters! such bloom! such sweetness! such meat and drink in their round globes!
What a fine fellow Bacchus would have been, if he had only signed the pledge when he was a
young man! I have taken off clusters that were as compact and almost as large as the Black
Hamburgs. It is slow work picking them. I do not see how the gatherers for the vintage ever
get off enough. It takes so long to disentangle the bunches from the leaves and the interlacing
vines and the supporting tendrils; and then I like to hold up each bunch and look at it in
the sunlight, and get the fragrance and the bloom of it, and show it to Polly, who is making
herself useful, as taster and companion, at the foot of the ladder, before dropping it into
the basket. But we have other company. The robin, the most knowing and greedy bird out of paradise
(I trust he will always be kept out), has discovered that the grape-crop is uncommonly good,
and has come back, with his whole tribe and family, larger than it was in pea-time. He knows
the ripest bunches as well as anybody, and tries them all. If he would take a whole bunch here
and there, say half the number, and be off with it, I should not so much care. But he will
not. He pecks away at all the bunches, and spoils as many as he can. It is time he went south.

There is no prettier sight, to my eye, than a gardener on a ladder in his grape-arbor, in these
golden days, selecting the heaviest clusters of grapes, and handing them down to one and another
of a group of neighbors and friends, who stand under the shade of the leaves, flecked with
the sunlight, and cry, "How sweet!" "What nice ones!" and the like,--remarks encouraging to
the man on the ladder. It is great pleasure to see people eat grapes.

Moral Truth.--I have no doubt that grapes taste best in other people's mouths. It is an old
notion that it is easier to be generous than to be stingy. I am convinced that the majority
of people would be generous from selfish motives, if they had the opportunity.

Philosophical Observation.--Nothing shows one who his friends are like prosperity and ripe
fruit. I had a good friend in the country, whom I almost never visited except in cherry-time.
By your fruits you shall know them.

SEVENTEENTH WEEK

I like to go into the garden these warm latter days, and muse. To muse is to sit in the sun,
and not think of anything. I am not sure but goodness comes out of people who bask in the sun,
as it does out of a sweet apple roasted before the fire. The late September and October sun
of this latitude is something like the sun of extreme Lower Italy: you can stand a good deal
of it, and apparently soak a winter supply into the system. If one only could take in his winter
fuel in this way! The next great discovery will, very likely, be the conservation of sunlight.
In the correlation of forces, I look to see the day when the superfluous sunshine will be utilized;
as, for instance, that which has burned up my celery this year will be converted into a force
to work the garden.

This sitting in the sun amid the evidences of a ripe year is the easiest part of gardening
I have experienced. But what a combat has gone on here! What vegetable passions have run the
whole gamut of ambition, selfishness, greed of place, fruition, satiety, and now rest here
in the truce of exhaustion! What a battle-field, if one may look upon it so! The corn has lost
its ammunition, and stacked arms in a slovenly, militia sort of style. The ground vines are
torn, trampled, and withered; and the ungathered cucumbers, worthless melons, and golden squashes
lie about like the spent bombs and exploded shells of a battle-field. So the cannon-balls lay
on the sandy plain before Fort Fisher after the capture. So the great grassy meadow at Munich,
any morning during the October Fest, is strewn with empty beermugs. History constantly repeats
itself. There is a large crop of moral reflections in my garden, which anybody is at liberty
to gather who passes this way.

I have tried to get in anything that offered temptation to sin. There would be no thieves if
there was nothing to steal; and I suppose, in the thieves' catechism, the provider is as bad
as the thief; and, probably, I am to blame for leaving out a few winter pears, which some predatory
boy carried off on Sunday. At first I was angry, and said I should like to have caught the
urchin in the act; but, on second thought, I was glad I did not. The interview could not have
been pleasant: I shouldn't have known what to do with him. The chances are, that he would have
escaped away with his pockets full, and jibed at me from a safe distance. And, if I had got
my hands on him, I should have been still more embarrassed. If I had flogged him, he would
have got over it a good deal sooner than I should. That sort of boy does not mind castigation
any more than he does tearing his trousers in the briers. If I had treated him with kindness,
and conciliated him with grapes, showing him the enormity of his offense, I suppose he would
have come the next night, and taken the remainder of the grapes. The truth is, that the public
morality is lax on the subject of fruit. If anybody puts arsenic or gunpowder into his watermelons,
he is universally denounced as a stingy old murderer by the community. A great many people
regard growing fruit as lawful prey, who would not think of breaking into your cellar to take
it. I found a man once in my raspberry-bushes, early in the season, when we were waiting for
a dishful to ripen. Upon inquiring what he was about, he said he was only eating some; and
the operation seemed to be so natural and simple, that I disliked to disturb him. And I am
not very sure that one has a right to the whole of an abundant crop of fruit until he has gathered
it. At least, in a city garden, one might as well conform his theory to the practice of the
community.

As for children (and it sometimes looks as if the chief products of my garden were small boys
and hens), it is admitted that they are barbarians. There is no exception among them to this
condition of barbarism. This is not to say that they are not attractive; for they have the
virtues as well as the vices of a primitive people. It is held by some naturalists that the
child is only a zoophyte, with a stomach, and feelers radiating from it in search of something
to fill it. It is true that a child is always hungry all over: but he is also curious all over;
and his curiosity is excited about as early as his hunger. He immediately begins to put out
his moral feelers into the unknown and the infinite to discover what sort of an existence this
is into which he has come. His imagination is quite as hungry as his stomach. And again and
again it is stronger than his other appetites. You can easily engage his imagination in a story
which will make him forget his dinner. He is credulous and superstitious, and open to all wonder.
In this, he is exactly like the savage races. Both gorge themselves on the marvelous; and all
the unknown is marvelous to them. I know the general impression is that children must be governed
through their stomachs. I think they can be controlled quite as well through their curiosity;
that being the more craving and imperious of the two. I have seen children follow about a person
who told them stories, and interested them with his charming talk, as greedily as if his pockets
had been full of bon-bons.

Perhaps this fact has no practical relation to gardening; but it occurs to me that, if I should
paper the outside of my high board fence with the leaves of "The Arabian Nights," it would
afford me a good deal of protection,--more, in fact, than spikes in the top, which tear trousers
and encourage profanity, but do not save much fruit. A spiked fence is a challenge to any boy
of spirit. But if the fence were papered with fairy-tales, would he not stop to read them until
it was too late for him to climb into the garden? I don't know. Human nature is vicious. The
boy might regard the picture of the garden of the Hesperides only as an advertisement of what
was over the fence. I begin to find that the problem of raising fruit is nothing to that of
getting it after it has matured. So long as the law, just in many respects, is in force against
shooting birds and small boys, the gardener may sow in tears and reap in vain.

