+91. Eighth Experiment.+--I closed the hole in the bottle at A (Fig. 5) with a cork, as also
the tube B, and then filled the bottle with fire-air (§ 30, e.). Then I had at hand the glass
C, in which I had placed 2 large bees, and had provided some honey for their stay. I opened
the stopped-up tube, placed this glass over it as quickly as possible, and pressed it into
the ring of pitch. I afterwards placed the whole in the dish D, which I had filled with milk
of lime, and withdrew the cork at A. In this case I observed the milk of lime to rise a little
into the bottle every day, and after 8 days had elapsed the bottle was almost completely filled
with it, and the bees were dead.

+92. Ninth Experiment.+--Plants, however, will not grow noticeably in pure fire-air. I filled
with this air a bottle capable of holding 16 ounces of water, and which contained 4 peas (§
88). They got roots, but did not grow up at all; with milk of lime the twelfth part was absorbed.
I then filled this air into another bottle which also contained 4 peas. After 14 days they
had got roots, but also did not grow up, and with milk of lime likewise only the twelfth part
was absorbed. I repeated this experiment 3 times more with the same air, and it was observed
that the fourth and fifth times the peas had grown upwards a little. There still remained one-half
of the whole air, and in this fire could still burn. There is no doubt that the whole quantity
of fire-air could have been converted into aerial acid if I had continued the operation longer.
It may also be observed that the peas act more strongly upon the fire-air when they send out
roots than subsequently.

+93.+ Hence it is the fire-air by means of which the circulation of the blood and of the juices
in animals and plants is so fully maintained. Still it is a peculiar circumstance that blood
and the lungs have not such action upon fire-air as insects and plants have, for the latter
convert it into aerial acid, and the former into vitiated air (§§ 29, 89, 90). It is not so
easy to furnish the reason for this, yet I will risk it. It is known that the acids lose those
properties by which they reveal themselves as acids, by the addition of the inflammable substance,
as sulphur, the elastic acid of nitre, regulus of arsenic, sugar, and the like, plainly shew.
I am inclined to believe that fire-air consists of a subtle acid substance united with phlogiston,
and it is probable that all acids derive their origin from fire-air. Now, if this air penetrates
into plants, these must attract the phlogiston, and consequently the acid, which manifests
itself as aerial acid, must be produced. This they again give up. The objection that so great
a quantity of aerial acid is nevertheless obtained in the destruction of plants, and that,
consequently, these must attract the aerial acid, has no weight, since otherwise the air in
my vessels in which the peas were contained must have become for the most part lost, which,
however, did not take place.... If plants abstract the phlogiston from the air, the aerial
acid must be lighter. But experiment shows me the opposite; I found it, after careful weighing,
somewhat heavier, but this is not contrary to my opinion; as it is known that all acids retain
water strongly, the aerial acid must possess the same property, and this may consequently cause
the most of the weight. If all this is accurate, another question then arises: Why do not blood
and the lungs likewise convert fire-air into such an aerial acid? I take the liberty here also
of giving my opinion of this, for how would all these laboriously executed experiments help
me if I had not the hope of coming by means of them nearer to my ultimate object, the truth?
Phlogiston, which makes most substances with which it unites liquid as well as mobile and elastic,
must have the same effect upon blood. The globules of blood must attract it from the air through
the small pores of the lungs. By this union they become separated from one another, and are
consequently made more liquid. They then appear bright red (§ 89). They must, however, give
this attracted phlogiston up again during the circulation, and in consequence, be placed in
a condition to absorb the inflammable substance anew from the air at that place where they
are in the most intimate contact with it, that is, in the lungs. Where this phlogiston has
gone to during the circulation of the blood, I leave to others to ascertain. The attraction
which the blood has for phlogiston cannot be so strong as that with which plants and insects
attract it from the air, and then the blood cannot convert air into aerial acid; still it becomes
converted into an air which lies midway between fire-air and aerial acid, that is, a vitiated
air; for it unites neither with lime nor with water after the manner of fire-air and it extinguishes
fire, after that of aerial acid. But that the blood really attracts the inflammable substance
I have additional experiment to prove, since I have removed phlogiston by help of my lungs
from inflammable air, and have converted this into vitiated air.

I filled a bladder with the air which one obtains from iron filings and vitriolic acid (§ 30,
c.), and respired it in the manner previously described (§ 84). I was only able to inhale it
20 times, and after I had somewhat recovered, I expelled the air once more from my lungs as
completely as possible, and again inhaled this inflammable air: after 10 inhalations I was
compelled to desist from it, and observed that it could no longer be kindled, and also would
not unite with lime water. In one word it was a vitiated air.

I kept a piece of sulphur in continuous ebullition over the fire in a retort, capable of holding
12 ounces of water, with an empty bladder attached in place of a receiver, the retort also
placed so that the sulphur which rose into the neck could run back again. After all had become
cold, I found the air neither increased nor diminished: it smelt slightly hepatic, and extinguished
a burning candle. I shall prove further on that sulphur can unite with more phlogiston; and
it seems to me to follow from this experiment that something inflammable from the air had deposited
itself upon the sulphur, and that the air had thereby acquired the property of a vitiated air.
It is, however, also remarkable that other bodies which attract the inflammable substance more
strongly, as for example, the fuming acid of nitre, do not abstract it from the air. It is
likewise strange that I was able to inhale the inflammable air into my lungs only 20 times;
and I observe here as something peculiar that, if I mistake not, I became very warm a quarter
of an hour afterwards. It is also to be observed that fire-air, vitiated by the lungs, extinguishes
fire; why does not the aerial acid attract the phlogiston again? why not also the vitiated
air? Mr. Priestley indeed has accomplished this, but it did not succeed with me however much
I also wished it. He has converted aerial acid into wholesome air by means of a mixture of
iron filings, sulphur, and some water. When I desired to repeat this experiment, the aerial
acid was always absorbed by the iron filings. I likewise powdered finely some iron filings
which had been fused together with excess of sulphur, moistened this with water, and preserved
it in a bottle which was filled with aerial acid: but with the same result. After 2 two days
the aerial acid was almost entirely absorbed. This philosopher also says that he has made vitiated
air wholesome again by agitation with water. I must admit, however, that with me this likewise
failed. I filled a flask one fourth part with vitiated air, and the remainder with fresh water;
I closed the flask very tightly, and shook it up and down for almost a whole hour. Then when
I collected this air in a bladder, and from this in a bottle, I found that the candle was extinguished
afterwards as it was before. He mixed with water, by agitation, the inflammable air from metals;
this also would not succeed with me, although I used only little inflammable air, and much
water. He also observed that plants made vitiated air wholesome again. It follows from my experiments
that they vitiate air. I kept plants, in the dark as well as exposed to sunlight, in a flask
which was filled with vitiated air and carefully secured (which careful securing must really
be attended to). I tested a little of this air every 2 days, and always found it vitiated.

+94.+ Water has the peculiar property of separating the proximate constituents of air; of uniting
with fire-air; and of entering into no kind of union with vitiated air. (1.) I filled a large
bottle with boiled water which had been cooled shortly before, and permitted the tenth part
to run out. I then placed the bottle, inverted and open, in a vessel with water. I observed
the quantity of air to diminish a little every day, and when this diminution ceased, I collected
the remaining air first in a bladder (§ 30, h.), and from the bladder in a bottle (§ 30, c.),
and brought a burning candle into the bottle; it had scarcely reached the mouth when it went
out. (2.) I then took the same kind of water freed from air, filled a bottle with it, and permitted
the tenth part of it to run into a bladder filled with vitiated air. I next placed the bottle,
inverted, in a vessel with water, and observed the space which the air occupied in it. I found,
14 days afterwards, that the water had not absorbed the smallest quantity of it. (3.) I placed
a large bottle, from which the bottom was knocked out, in a deep kettle with water, so that
the water outside reached above the top of the bottle. I then tied a bladder, empty of air,
over the top of the bottle, and made the water boil up once over the fire. The air which was
in that portion of the water contained under the bottle rose into the bladder; and after I
had tied up the bladder, and detached it front the bottle, I filled a phial with it, and put
a small burning candle into it; it burned there more brightly than in ordinary air.

This fire-air, dissolved in water, must be as indispensable for aquatic animals as for those
which live upon the earth. They must draw it into their bodies, and convert it either into
aerial acid or into vitiated air. Into whichever kind it is, however, it must always become
separated from the water again, for as aerial acid it does not remain with the water in the
open air, and vitiated air cannot unite with water at all (No. 2), the water is then in a condition
again to absorb fire-air anew, and to convey it to the animals. My experiments made with respect
to this matter agree with this entirely. I allowed a few leeches to remain in a bottle, which
was half filled with water and well closed, until they died. I then examined the air standing
over this water. It had no smell, nor had the water; it appeared to have increased a little
and it extinguished fire. It seems that these creatures live only upon the phlogiston in fire-air,
perhaps also upon the heat. I have preserved them alive in water, and that the same water,
for two years; the bottle was only tied over with gauze. I have a convenient method to ascertain
whether fire-air is present in water or not. I take, for example, an ounce of it, and add to
it about 4 drops of a solution of vitriol of iron, and 2 drops of a solution of alkali of tartar
which has been somewhat diluted with water. A dark green precipitate is immediately formed,
which, however becomes yellow in a couple of minutes if the water contains fire-air; but if
the water has been boiled, and has become cold without access of air, or if it is even a recently
distilled water, the precipitate retains its green colour, and does not become yellow sooner
than an hour afterwards, and not yellow at all if it is protected from access of air in full
bottles. I have already shown (§ 15) that the green precipitate of iron owes its colour to
phlogiston which still adheres to the earth, and it follows from this that fire-air, although
not in the elastic condition, is able to attract phlogiston. The following experiment likewise
shewed me that aquatic animals take fire-air from the water. I placed a leech in a bottle which
was completely filled with water, and was protected from every kind of air. After two days
it was almost dead. I then examined the water in the manner described above, and found that
the earth of iron retained its green colour. The swelling up of peas in cold water is to be
ascribed mainly to the fire-air present in the water. If a bottle is filled full of water and
a few peas are placed in it, after 24 hours the water contains aerial acid it is true, but
no fire-air. In water boiled and become cold, peas swell up only a little. I perceive in this
the reason why the waters distilled from plants not only lose their smell, but why also a mucilaginous
substance settles to the bottom, when the bottles are frequently opened, whereas the same waters,
in perfectly full bottles, retain their smell and clearness unchanged. All plants communicate
to water some mucilaginous material which is carried over along with it. Fire-air is the chief
cause of this corruption; if this enters the water again, it attracts to itself the inflammable
substance from the subtle oily and mucilaginous matter, and alters the whole of the water.

       *       *       *       *       *

All bold text has been surrounded by + signs. Italic text is denoted by underscores.