Meanwhile Anson was not altogether free from anxiety. It was true that his ships were repaired,
but many of his men remained on land to recover their strength, and but a small number of able-bodied
seamen remained on board with him. The roadstead being lined with coral, great precautions
were necessary to save the cables from being cut, but in spite of them, at new moon, a sudden
tempest arose and broke the ship loose. The anchors held well, but the hawsers gave way, and
the Centurion was carried out to sea. The thunder growled ceaselessly, and the rain fell with
such violence, that the signals of distress which were given by the crew were not even heard.
Anson, most of his officers, and a large part of the crew, numbering one hundred and thirteen
persons, remained on land and found themselves deprived of the only means they possessed of
leaving Tinian. Their despair was great, their consternation inexpressible. But Anson, with
his energy and endless resources, soon roused his companions from their despair! One vessel,
that which they had captured from the Spaniards, still remained to them, and it occurred to
them to lengthen it, until it could contain them all with the necessary provisions for a voyage
to China. However, after nineteen days, the Centurion returned, and the English, embarking
in her upon the 21st of October, were not long in reaching Macao, putting into a friendly and
civilized port for the first time since their departure from England, two years before.

"Macao," says Anson, "formerly rich, well populated, and capable of self-defence against the
Chinese Government, is greatly shorn of its ancient splendour! Although still inhabited by
the Portuguese and ruled by a Governor, nominated by the King of Portugal, it is at the mercy
of the Chinese, who can starve the inhabitants, or take possession of it, for which reasons
the Portuguese Governor is very careful not to offend them."

Anson was forced to write an imperious letter to the Chinese Governor, before he could obtain
permission to buy, even at high prices, the provisions and stores he required. He then publicly
announced his intention of leaving for Batavia and set sail on the 19th of April, 1743. But,
instead of steering for the Dutch possession, he directed his course towards the Philippine
Islands, where, for several days, he awaited the arrival of the galleon returning from Acapulco,
laden with the proceeds of the sale of her rich cargo. These vessels usually carried forty-four
guns, and were manned by a crew of over 500 men. Anson had only 200 sailors, of whom thirty
were but lads, but this disproportion did not deter him, for he had the expectation of rich
booty, and the cupidity of his men was sufficient guarantee of their courage.

"Why," asked Anson one day of his steward, "why do you no longer give us mutton for dinner?
Have we eaten all the sheep we bought in China?"

"Pray excuse me, Commodore," replied the steward, "but I am reserving the only two which remain
for the Captain of the galleon."

No one, not even the steward, doubted of success! Anson well understood how to secure it, and
the efficiency of his men compensated for their reduced numbers. The struggle was hot, the
straw mats which filled the rigging of the galleon took fire and the flames rose as high as
the mizen mast. The Spaniards found the double enemies too much! After a sharp contest of two
hours, during which sixty-seven of their men were killed and eighty-four wounded, they surrendered.

It was a rich prize, 1,313,842 "pieces of eight,"[1] and 35,682 ounces of ingot silver, with
other merchandise of little value in comparison with the money. This booty, added to others,
amounted to nearly 400,000l, without taking into account the vessels, goods, &c., of the Spaniards
which the English squadron had burnt or destroyed, and which could not be reckoned at less
than 600,000l.

[Footnote 1: A Spanish coin, so called, because it represents the eighth of a doubloon, it
is worth about nine shillings English money.]

Anson convoyed his prize to the Canton River, where he sold it much below its value, for 6000
piastres. He left on the 10th of December, and reached Spithead on the 15th of June, 1744,
after an absence of three years and nine months. He made a triumphal entry into London. The
half-million of money, which was the result of his numerous prizes, was conveyed through the
city in thirty-two chariots, to the sound of trumpets and beating of drums and amidst the shouts
of the people.

The money was divided between himself, his officers, and men; the king himself could not claim
a share.

Anson was created rear-admiral shortly after his return, and received important commands.

In 1747, he captured the Marquis of La Jonquière Taffanel, after an heroic struggle. For this
exploit, he was made First Lord of the Admiralty and Admiral.

In 1758, he covered the attempted descent of the English near St. Malo, and died in London
a short time after his return.

CHAPTER II. CAPTAIN COOK'S PREDECESSORS.

As early as 1669, Roggewein the elder had petitioned the Dutch West India Company for three
armed vessels, in order to prosecute his discoveries in the Pacific Ocean. His project was
favourably received, but a coolness in the relations between Spain and Holland forced the Batavian
government to relinquish the expedition for a time. Upon his death-bed Roggewein forced from
his son Jacob a promise to carry the plan he had conceived into execution.

Circumstances, over which he had no control, for a long time hindered the fulfilment of his
promise. It was only after several voyages in the Indian seas, after having even been judge
in the Batavian Justice Court, that at length Jacob Roggewein was in a position to take the
necessary steps with the West India Company. We have no means of finding out Roggewein's age
in 1721, or of ascertaining what were his claims to the command of an expedition of discovery.
Most biographical dictionaries honour him with but a slight mention, perhaps of a couple of
lines, and Fleurieu, in his learned and exhaustive account of the Dutch navigator, was unable
to find out anything certain about him.

Moreover, the narrative of the voyage was written not by Roggewein, but by a German named Behrens.
We may, therefore, with some justice, attribute the obscurities and contradictions of the particulars
given, and their general want of accuracy, rather to the narrator than to the navigator. It
even appears sometimes (and this is far from improbable), that Roggewein was ignorant of the
voyages and discoveries of his predecessors and contemporaries.

Upon the 21st of August, 1721, three vessels set sail from Texel, under his command. They were,
the Eagle of 36 guns, and with a crew of 111 men, the Tienhoven of 28 guns and 100 men, Captain
James Bauman, and the galley African of 14 guns and a crew of 60 men, Captain Henry Rosenthal.
Their voyage across the Atlantic afforded no particulars of interest. Touching at Rio, Roggewein
went in search of an island which he named Auke's Magdeland, and which would appear to be the
same as the Land of the Virgin, Hawkins' Virginia, and the Archipelago of the Falkland, or
Malouine Islands, unless indeed it was Southern Georgia. Although these islands were then well
known, it would appear that the Dutch knew little of their whereabouts, as after vainly seeking
the Falkland Isles, they set to work to look for the island St. Louis, belonging to the French,
apparently quite unaware that they belonged to the same group.

There are few lands indeed which have borne so many different names as Pepys Isles, Conti Isles,
and many which we need not mention. It would be easy to count up a dozen.

After discovering, or rather noticing an island below the parallel of the Straits of Magellan,
about twenty-four leagues from the American continent, of two hundred leagues in circumference,
which he named South Belgium, Roggewein passed through the Straits of Lemaire, or possibly
was carried by the current to 62-1/2 degrees of southern latitude. Finally, he regained the
coast of Chili; and cast anchor opposite the island of Mocha, which he found deserted. He afterwards
reached Juan Fernandez, where he met with the Tienhoven, from which he had been separated since
the 21st of December.

The vessels left this harbour before the end of March, and steered to the west-north-west,
in search of the land discovered by Davis, between 27 degrees and 28 degrees south.

After a search of several days, Roggewein sighted an island upon the 6th of April, 1722, which
he named Easter Island.

We will not stop to enumerate the exaggerated dimensions claimed for this island by the Dutch
navigator, nor to notice his observations of the manners and customs of the inhabitants. We
shall have occasion to refer to them in dealing with the more detailed and reliable accounts
of Cook and La Perouse. "But," said Fleurieu, "we shall vainly look in this narrative for any
sign of learning on the part of Roggewein's sergeant-major." After describing the Banana, of
which the leaves are six or eight feet high, and two or three wide, he adds that this was the
leaf with which our first parents covered their nakedness after the Fall; and to make it clearer,
further remarks that those who accept this view, do so on account of this leaf being the largest
of all the plants growing either in eastern or western countries, thereby plainly indicating
his notion of the proportions of Adam and Eve.

A native came on board the Eagle. He delighted every one by his good humour, gaiety, and friendly
demonstrations.

In the morning Roggewein distinguished an eager multitude upon the shore, which was adorned
with high statues, who awaited the arrival of the strangers with impatient curiosity. For no
discoverable purpose a gun was fired, one of the natives was killed, and the multitude fled
in every direction,--soon, however, to return in greater haste. Roggewein, at the head of 150
men, fired a volley, stretching a number of victims on the ground. Overcome with terror, the
natives hastened to appease their terrible visitors by offering them all they possessed.

Fleurieu is of opinion that Easter Island and Davis Land are not identical; but in spite of
the reasons with which he supports his opinions, and the differences which he points out in
the situation and description of the two islands, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion
that Roggewein and Davis's discoveries are one and the same. No other island answering to the
description is to be found in these latitudes, which are now thoroughly well known.

A violent storm of wind drove Roggewein from his anchorage on the eastern side of the island,
and obliged him to make for the west-north-west. He traversed the sea called Mauvaise by Schouten,
and having sailed eight hundred leagues from Easter Island, fell in with what he took to be
the Isle of Dogs, so called by Schouten. Roggewein named it Carlshoff, a name which it still
retains.

The squadron passed this island in the night, without touching at it, and was forced in the
following night, by the wind and adverse currents, to the midst of a group of low islands,
which were quite unexpectedly encountered. The African was dashed against a coral rock, and
the two consorts narrowly escaped the same fate. Only after five days of unceasing effort,
of danger and anxiety, the crew succeeded in extricating the vessels and in regaining the open sea.

The natives of this group were tall, with long and flowing hair. They painted their bodies
in various colours. It is generally agreed now to recognize in Roggewein's description of the
Pernicious Islands, the group to which Cook gave the name of Palliser Isles.

On the morning succeeding the day in which he had so narrowly escaped the dangers of the Pernicious
Islands, Roggewein discovered an island to which he gave the name of Aurora. Lying low, it
was scarcely visible above the water, and had the sun not shone out, the Tienhoven would have
been lost upon it.

As night approached, new land was perceived, to which the name of Vesper was given, and it
is difficult to decide whether or no it belonged to the Palliser group.

Roggewein continued to sail between the 15th and 16th degrees, and was not long in finding
himself "all of a sudden" in the midst of islands which were half submerged.

"As we approached them," says Behrens, "we saw an immense number of canoes navigating the coasts,
and we concluded that the islands were well populated. Upon nearing the land we discovered
that it consisted of a mass of different islands, situated close the one to the other, and
we were insensibly drawn in amongst them. We began to fear that we should be unable to extricate
ourselves. The admiral sent one of the pilots up to the look-out to ascertain how we could
get free of them.

"We owed our safety to the calm that prevailed. The slightest movement of the water would have
run our ships upon the rocks, without the possibility of assistance reaching us. As it was,
we got away without any accident worth mentioning. These islands are six in number, all very
pleasant, and taken together may extend some thirty leagues. They are situated twenty-five
leagues westward of the Pernicious Islands. We named them the Labyrinth, because we could only
leave them by a circuitous route."

Many authors identify this group with Byron's Prince of Wales Islands. Fleurieu holds a different
opinion. Dumont d'Urville thinks them identical with the group of Vliegen, already seen by
Schouten and Lemaire.

After navigating for three days in a westerly direction, the Dutch caught sight of a beautiful
island. Cocoa-nuts, palm-trees, and luxuriant verdure testified to its fertility. But finding
it impossible to anchor there, the officers and crews were obliged to visit it in well-armed
detachments.

Once more the Dutch needlessly shed the blood of an inoffensive population which had awaited
them upon the shore, and whose only fault consisted in their numbers.

After this execution, worthy rather of barbarians than of civilized men, they endeavoured to
persuade the natives to return, by offering presents to the chiefs, and by deceitful protestations
of friendship. But they were not to be deceived by the latter, and having enticed the sailors
into the interior, the inhabitants rushed upon them and attacked them with stones. Although
a volley of bullets stretched a number upon the ground, they still bravely persisted in attacking
the strangers, and forced them to re-embark, carrying with them their dead and wounded.

Of course the Dutch cried treason, not knowing how to find epithets strong enough for the treachery
and disloyalty of their adversaries. But, who struck the first blow? Who was the aggressor?
Even admitting that a few thefts were committed, which is probable enough, was it necessary
to visit them with so severe a punishment, to revenge upon an entire population the wrong-doing
of a few individuals, who after all can have had no very strict notions of honesty?

In spite of their losses, the Dutch called this island, in memory of the refreshment they had
enjoyed there, Recreation Island. Roggewein gives its situation as below the sixth parallel,
but his longitude is so incorrect, that it is impossible to depend upon it.

The question now arises, whether the captain should prosecute his search for the Island Espirito
Santo de Quiros in the west, or whether, on the contrary, he should sail northward and reach
the East Indies during the favourable season?

The counsel of war, which Roggewein called to the consideration of this question, chose the
latter alternative.

The third day after this decision, three islands were simultaneously discovered. They received
the name of Bauman, after the captain of the Tienhoven, who was the first to catch sight of
them. The natives came round the vessels to traffic, whilst an immense crowd of the inhabitants
lined the shore, armed with bows and spears. They were white skinned, and only differed from
Europeans in appearance, when very much tanned by the sun. Their bodies were not painted. A
strip of stuff, artistically arranged and fringed, covered them from the waist to the heels.
Hats of the same material protected their heads and necklaces of sweet-smelling flowers, adorned
their necks.

"It must be confessed," says Behrens, "that this is the most civilized nation, as well as the
most honest, which we have met with in the southern seas. Charmed with our arrival, they received
us like gods, and when we showed our intention of leaving, they testified most lively regrets."

From the description, these would appear to have been the inhabitants of the Navigators Islands.

After having encountered the islands which Roggewein believed to be Cocoa and Traitor Islands,
already visited by Schouten and Lemaire, and which Fleurieu, imagining them to be a Dutch discovery,
named Roggewein Islands; after having caught sight of Tienhoven and Groningue Islands, which
were believed by Pingré to be identical with Santa Cruz of Mendana, the expedition finally
reached the coast of New Ireland. Here the discoverers perpetrated new massacres. From thence
they went to the shores of New Guinea, and after crossing the Moluccas, cast anchor at Batavia.

There their fellow-countrymen, less humane than many of the tribes they had visited, confiscated
the two vessels, imprisoned the officers and sailors indiscriminately, and sent them to Europe
to take their trial. They had committed the unpardonable crime of having entered countries
belonging to the East India Company, whilst they themselves were in the employ of the West
India Company.

The result was a trial, and the East India Company was compelled to restore all that it had
appropriated, and to pay heavy damages.

We lose all sight of Roggewein after his arrival at Texel upon the 11th July, 1723, and no
details are to be obtained of the last years of his life. Grateful thanks are due to Fleurieu
for having unravelled this "chaotic" narrative, and for having thrown some light upon an expedition
which deserves to be better known.

Upon the 17th of June, 1764, Commodore Byron received instructions signed by the Lord of the
Admiralty. They were to the following effect,--"As nothing contributes more to the glory of
this nation, in its character of a maritime power, to the dignity of the British crown, and
to the progress of its national commerce and navigation, than the discovery of new regions;
and as there is every reason for believing in the existence of lands and islands in great numbers,
between the Cape of Good Hope and the Straits of Magellan, which have been hitherto unknown
to the European powers, and which are situated in latitudes suitable for navigation, and in
climates productive of different marketable commodities; and as moreover, his Majesty's islands,
called Pepys and Falkland Islands, situated as will be described, have not been sufficiently
examined for a just appreciation of their shores and productions, although they were discovered
by English navigators; his Majesty, taking all these considerations into account, and conceiving
the existing state of profound peace now enjoyed by his subjects especially suitable for such
an undertaking, has decided to put it into execution."

Upon what seaman would the choice of the English Government fall?

Commodore John Byron, born on the 8th of November, 1723, was the man selected. From his earliest
years, he had shown an enthusiastic love of seafaring life, and at the age of seventeen had
offered his services upon one of the vessels that formed Admiral Anson's squadron, when it
was sent out for the destruction of Spanish settlements upon the Pacific coast.

We have already given an account of the troubles which befell this expedition before the incredible
fortune which was to distinguish its last voyage.

The vessel upon which Byron embarked was the Wager. It was wrecked in passing through the Straits
of Magellan, and the crew being taken prisoners by the Spaniards, were sent to Chili. After
a captivity which lasted at least three years, Byron effected his escape, and was rescued by
a vessel from St. Malo, which took him to Europe. He returned at once to service, and distinguished
himself in various encounters during the war with France. Doubtless it was the recollection
of his first voyage round the world, so disastrously interrupted, which procured for him the
distinction conferred upon him by the Admiralty.

The vessels entrusted to him were carefully armed. The Dauphin was a sixth-rate man-of-war,
and carried 24 guns, 150 sailors, 3 lieutenants, and 37 petty officers. The Tamar was a sloop
of 16 guns, and 90 sailors, 3 lieutenants, 27 petty officers, commanded by Captain Mouat.

The start was not fortunate. The expedition left the Downs upon the 21st of June, but the Dauphin
grounded before leaving the Thames, and was obliged to put into Plymouth for repairs.

Upon the 3rd of July, anchor was finally weighed, and ten days later, Byron put in at Funchal
in the Island of Madeira for refreshments. He was forced to halt again at Cape Verd Islands,
to take in water, that with which he was supplied having become rapidly wasted.

Nothing further occurred to interrupt the voyage, until the two English vessels sighted Cape Frio.

Byron remarked a singular fact, since fully verified, that the copper sheathing of his vessels
appeared to disperse the fish, which he expected to meet with in large quantities.

The tropical heat, and constant rains, had struck down a large proportion of the crew, hence
the urgent need of rest and of fresh victuals which they experienced.

These they hoped to find at Rio de Janeiro, where they arrived on the 12th December. Byron
was warmly welcomed by the viceroy, and thus describes his first interview.

"When I made my visit, I was received in the greatest state, about sixty officers were drawn
up by the palace. The guard was under arms. They were fine, well-drilled men. His Excellency
accompanied by the nobility received me on the staircase. Fifteen salutes from the neighbouring
fort honoured my arrival. We then entered the audience-chamber, and after a conversation of
a quarter of an hour, I took my leave, and was conducted back with the same ceremonies."

We shall see a little later how slightly the reception given to Captain Cook some years afterwards
resembled that just related.

The Commodore obtained ready permission to disembark his sick, and found every facility for
revictualling. His sole cause of complaint was the repeated endeavour of the Portuguese to
tempt his sailors to desert.

The insupportable heat experienced by the crew shortened their stay at Rio. Upon the 16th of
October, anchor was weighed, but it was five days before a land breeze allowed the vessels
to gain the open sea.

Up to this moment, the destination of the expedition had been kept secret. Byron now summoned
the captain of the Tamar on board, and in the presence of the assembled sailors, read his instructions.

These enjoined him not to proceed to the East Indies, as had been supposed, but to prosecute
discoveries, which might prove of great importance to England in the southern seas. With this
object the Lords of the Admiralty promised double pay to the crew, with future advancement
and enjoyments, if they were pleased with their services. The second part of this short harangue
was the most acceptable to the sailors and was received by them with joyous demonstrations.

Until the 29th of October no incident occurred in their passage. Upon that date sudden and
violent squalls succeeded each other and culminated in a fearful tempest, the violence of which
was so great that the Commodore ordered four guns to be thrown overboard, to avoid foundering.
In the morning the weather moderated somewhat, but it was as cold as in England at the same
time of year, although in this quarter of the globe the month of November answers to the month
of May. As the wind continued to drive the vessel eastward, Byron began to think that he should
experience great difficulty in avoiding the east of Patagonia.

Suddenly, upon the 12th of November, although no land was marked on the chart in this position,
a repeated cry of "Land! land ahead!" arose. Clouds at this moment obscured almost the entire
horizon, and it thundered and lightened without intermission.

"It seemed to me," says Byron, "that what had at first appeared to be an island, was really
two steep mountains, but, upon looking windward, it was apparent that the land which belonged
to these mountains stretched far to the south-east." Consequently, he steered south-west. "I
sent some officers to the masthead to watch the wind, and to verify the discovery. They unanimously
asserted that they saw a great extent of country. We then went E.S.E. The land appeared to
present entirely the same appearance. The mountains looked blue, as is often the case in dark
and rainy weather, when one is near them. Shortly afterwards, several of our number fancied
they could distinguish waves breaking upon a sandy shore, but after steering with the utmost
caution for an hour, that which we had taken for land disappeared suddenly, and we were convinced
to our amazement that it had been only a land of fog! I have passed all my life at sea," continues
Byron, "since I was twenty-seven, but I never could have conceived so complete and sustained
an illusion.

"There is no doubt, that had the weather not cleared so suddenly as it did, we should one and
all on board have declared that we had discovered land in this latitude. We were then in latitude
43 degrees 46 minutes S. and longitude 60 degrees 5 minutes W."

The next morning a terrible gale of wind arose, heralded by the piercing cries of many hundred
birds flying before it. It lasted only twenty minutes--sufficiently long, however, to throw
the vessel on its beam end before it was possible to let go the halliards. At the same moment
a blow from the sheet of the mainsail overthrew the first lieutenant, and sent him rolling
to a distance, while the mizen-mast, which was not entirely lowered, was torn to pieces.

The following days were not much more favourable. Moreover, the ship had sunk so little, that
she drifted away as the wind freshened. After such a troublesome voyage, we may guess how gladly
Byron reached Penguin Island and Port Desire on the 24th of November. But the delights of this
station did not by any means equal the anticipations of the crew.

The English sailors landed and upon advancing into the interior, met only with a desert country,
and sandy hills, without a single tree. They found no game, but they saw a few guanacos too
far off for a shot; they were, however, able to catch some large hares, which were not difficult
to secure. The seals and sea birds, however, furnished food for an entire fleet.

Badly situated and badly sheltered, Port Desire offered the further inconvenience that only
brackish water could be procured there. Not a trace of inhabitants was to be found! A long
stay in this place being useless and dangerous, Byron started in search of Pepys Island on
the 25th.

The position of this island was most uncertain. Halley placed it 80 degrees east of the continent.
Cowley, the only person who asserted that he had seen it, declared it was about 47 degrees
latitude, S., but did not fix its longitude. Here then was an interesting problem to solve.

After having explored to the N., to the S., and to the E., Byron, satisfied that this island
was imaginary, set sail for the Sebaldines, in haste to reach the first possible port where
he could obtain food and water, of which he had pressing need. A storm overtook him, during
which the waves were so terrific, that Byron declared he had never seen them equalled, even
when he doubled Cape Horn with Admiral Anson. This danger surmounted, he recognized Cape Virgin,
which forms the northern entrance to the Straits of Magellan.

As soon as the vessels neared the shore, the sailors distinguished a crowd of men on horseback,
who set up a white tent, and signed to them to land. Curious to see these Patagonians, about
whom preceding navigators had so disagreed, Byron landed with a strong detachment of armed
soldiers.

He found nearly 500 men, most of them on horseback, of gigantic stature, and looking like monsters
in human shape. Their bodies were painted in the most hideous manner, their faces traced with
various coloured lines, their eyes encircled with blue, black, or red, so that they had the
appearance of wearing enormous spectacles. Almost all were naked, with the exception of a skin
thrown over their shoulders--the wool inside, and a few of them wore boots. Truly, a singular
costume! primitive and not expensive!

With them were numbers of dogs and of very small horses, excessively ugly, but not the less
extremely swift.

The women rode on horseback like the men without stirrups, and all galloped on the shore, although
it was covered with immense stones and very slippery.

The interview was friendly. Byron distributed numbers of toys, ribbons, glass trinkets, and
tobacco, to the crowd of giants.

As soon as he had brought the Dauphin to the wind, Byron entered the Straits of Magellan with
the tide. It was not his intention to cross it, but merely to find a safe and commodious harbour,
where he might secure wood and water before starting in his search for the Falkland Islands.

On leaving the second outlet, he met with St. Elizabeth, St. Bartholomew, and St. George Islands,
and Sandy Point. Near the last he found a delicious country, springs, woods, fields covered
with flowers, which shed an exquisite perfume in the air. The country was swarming with hundreds
of birds, of which one species received the name of the "Painted Goose," from the exceeding
brilliancy of its plumage. But nowhere could a spot be found where the ship's boat could approach
without extreme danger. The water was shallow everywhere, and the breakers were heavy. Fish
of many kinds--more especially mullets,--geese, snipe, teal, and other birds of excellent flavour,
were caught and killed by the crew.

Byron was obliged to continue his voyage to Port Famine, which he reached on the 27th of December.

"We were sheltered from all winds," he says, "with the exception of the south-east, which rarely
blows, and no damage could accrue to vessels which might be driven on shore in the bay, because
of the profound calm that prevails. Wood enough floated near the shore to stock a thousand
vessels, so we had no need to go and cut it in the forest.

"The River Sedger ran at the bottom of the bay, the water of which is excellent. Its banks
are planted with large and beautiful trees, excellent for masts; parrots, and birds of brilliant
plumage thronged the branches." Abundance reigned in Famine Port during Byron's stay.

As soon as his crew were completely recovered from their fatigue and the ships well provisioned,
the Commodore, on the 5th of January, 1765, resumed his search for the Falkland Islands. Seven
days later, he discovered a land in which he fancied he recognized the Islands of Sebald de
Wert, but upon nearing them he found that what he had taken for three islands, was, in reality,
but one, which extended far south. He had no remaining doubt that he had found the group marked
upon the charts of the time as New Ireland, 51 degrees south latitude, and 63 degrees, 32 minutes
west longitude.

First of all, Byron steered clear of them, fearing to be thrown upon a coast with which he
was unacquainted, and after this summary bearing, a detachment was selected to skirt the coast
as closely as possible, and look for a safe and commodious harbour--which was soon met with.
It received the name of Port Egmont, in honour of Earl Egmont, First Lord of the Admiralty.

"I did not expect," says Byron, "that it would be possible to find so good a harbour. The depth
was excellent, the supply of water easy; all the ships of England might be anchored there in
shelter from winds.

"Geese, ducks, and teal abounded to such an extent, that the sailors were tired of eating them.
Want of wood was general, with the exception of some trunks of trees which floated by the shore,
and which were apparently brought here from the Strait of Magellan.

"The wild sorel and celery, both excellent anti-scorbutics, were to be found in abundance.
Sea-calves and seals, as well as penguins, were so numerous that it was impossible to walk
upon the strand without seeing them rush away in herds. Animals resembling wolves, but more
like foxes in shape, with the exception of their height and tails, several times attacked the
sailors, who had great difficulty in defending themselves. It would be no easy task to guess
how they came here, distant as the country is from any other continent,--by at least a hundred
leagues; or to imagine where they found shelter, in a country barren of vegetation, producing
only rushes, sword-grass, and not a single tree."

The account of this portion of Byron's voyage, in Didot's biography, is a tissue of errors.

"The flotilla," says M. Alfred de Lacaze, "became entangled in the Straits of Magellan, and
was forced to put into a bay near Port Famine, which was named Port Egmont." A singular mistake,
which proves how lightly the articles of this important collection were sometimes written.

Byron took possession of Port Egmont and the adjacent isles, called Falkland, in the name of
the King of England. Cowley had named them Pepys Islands, but in all probability the first
discoverer was Captain Davis in 1592. Two years later Sir Richard Hawkins found land which
was thought to be the same, and named it Virginia, in honour of his queen Elizabeth. Lastly,
vessels from St. Malo visited this group, and no doubt it was owing to this fact that Frezier
called them the Malouines Islands.

After having named a number of rocks, islets, and capes, Byron left Port Egmont on the 27th
of January, and set sail for Port Desire, which he reached nine days later. There he found
the Florida--a transport vessel, which had brought from England the provisions and necessary
appliances for his long voyage.

But this anchorage was too dangerous. The Florida and the Tamar were in too bad a condition
to be equal to the long operation of transhipment. Byron therefore sent one of his petty officers,
who had a thorough knowledge of the Strait of Magellan, on board the Florida, and with his
two consorts set sail for Port Famine. He met with a French ship so many times in the straits,
that it appeared as if she were bent upon the same course as himself. Upon returning to England,
he ascertained that she was the Aigle, Captain M. de Bougainville, who was coasting Patagonia
in search of the wood needed by the French colony in the Falkland Islands.

During the various excursions in the straits, the English expedition received several visits
from the inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego.

"I have never seen such wretched beings," says Byron; "they were entirely naked, with the exception
of a skin thrown across the shoulders. They offered me the bows and arrows with which they
were armed in exchange for beads, necklaces, and other trifles. Their arrows, which were two
feet long, were made of cane, and pointed with greenish stone; the bows were three feet long
and were furnished with catgut for strings.

"Their nourishment consisted of certain fruits, mussels, and the remains of putrid fish thrown
upon the beach during the storms. Pigs only could have relished their food. It consisted of
large pieces of whale, already putrified, the odour of which impregnated the air for some distance.
One of them tore the carrion in pieces with his teeth, and handed the bits to his companions,
who devoured them with the voracity of wild beasts.

"Several of these miserable beings decided to come on board. Wishing to give them a pleasant
reception, one of my petty officers played the violin and the sailors danced. This delighted
them. Anxious to show their appreciation, one of their number hastened to his pirogue (small
boat) and returned with a little bag of wolf-skin, containing a red ointment, with which he
rubbed the face of the violinist. He was anxious to pay me the same attention, but I drew back.
He then tried every means of overcoming my delicacy, and I had great difficulty in avoiding
the mark of esteem he was so anxious to give me."

It will not be out of place here to record the opinion held by Byron, an experienced seaman,
upon the advantages and disadvantages offered to the passage through the Straits of Magellan.
He does not agree with the majority of navigators who have visited these latitudes. He says,--

"Our account of the difficulties and dangers we encountered may lead to the idea that it is
not prudent to attempt this passage, and that ships leaving Europe for the southern seas, should
prefer to double Cape Horn. I am by no means of this opinion, although I have twice doubled
Cape Horn. There is one season in the year when not only one ship, but an entire fleet, might
safely cross the straits, and to profit by this season one should enter them in the month of
December. One inestimable advantage which should weigh with all navigators is that celery,
scurvy-grass, fruits, and other anti-scorbutic vegetables abound. Such obstacles as we encountered,
and which delayed us from the 17th of February till the 8th of April in the straits, were mainly
due to the equinoctial season, a season which is invariably stormy, and which, more than once,
tried our patience."

Until the 26th of April, the day upon which they found Mas-a-Fuero, belonging to the Juan Fernandez
group, Byron had sailed to the N.W. He hastened to disembark several sailors, who after obtaining
water and wood, chased wild goats, which they found better flavoured than venison in England.

During their stay in this port, a singular fact occurred. A violent surf broke over the shore,
and prevented the shore-boats from reaching the strand. Although he was provided with a life-belt,
one of the sailors, who could not swim, refused to jump into the sea to reach the boat. Threatened
with being left alone on the island, he still persistently refused to venture, when one of
his companions cleverly encircled his waist with a cord, in which he had made a running knot,
and one end of which was made fast to the boat. When he reached the vessel, Hawksworth's narrative
relates, that the unfortunate fellow had swallowed so much water that he appeared lifeless.
He was accordingly hung up by the heels, whereupon he soon regained his senses, and the next
day was completely restored. But in spite of this truly wonderful recovery, we can hardly venture
to recommend this course of treatment to humane rescue societies.

Leaving Mas-a-Fuero, Byron changed his route, with the intention of seeking Davis Land, now
known as Easter Island, which was placed by geographers in 27 degrees 30 minutes, a hundred
leagues westward of the American coast. Eight days were devoted to this search.

Having found nothing after this cruise, which he was unable to prolong, Byron, following his
intention of visiting the Solomon group, steered for the north-west. Upon the 22nd of May scurvy
broke out on board the vessels, and quickly made alarming havoc.

Fortunately land was perceived from the look-out on the 7th of June in 140 degrees 58 minutes
west longitude.

Next day, the fleet neared two islands, which presented an attractive appearance.

Large bushy trees, shrubs and groves were seen, and a number of natives who hastened to the
shore and lighted fires.

Byron sent a boat in search of anchorage. It returned without having found the requisite depth
at a cable's length from shore.

The unfortunate victims of scurvy who had crawled on to the forecastle, cast looks of sorrowful
longing at the fertile islands, which held the remedy for their sufferings and which Nature
placed beyond their reach!

The narrative says,--

"They saw the cocoa-trees in abundance, laden with fruit, the milk of which is probably the
most powerful anti-scorbutic in the world. They had reason for supposing that limes, bananas,
and other tropical fruits abounded, and to add to their torments they saw the shells of tortoises
floating on the shore."

All these delights, which would have restored them to vigour, were no more attainable than
if they had been separated by half the globe, but the sight of them increased the misery of
their privations.

Byron was anxious to curtail the tantalizing misery of his unfortunate crew, and giving the
name of Disappointment Islands to the group, he set sail once more on the 8th of June.

The very next day he found a new land, long, flat, covered with cocoa-nut trees. In its midst
was a lake with a little islet. This feature alone was indicative of the madreporic formation
of the soil, simple deposit, which was not yet, but which in time would become, an island.
The boat sent to sound met in every direction with a coast as steep as a wall.

Meanwhile the natives made hostile demonstrations. Two men entered the boat. One stole a sailor's
waistcoat, another put out his hand for the quarter-master's cocked hat, but not knowing how
to deal with it, pulled it towards him, instead of lifting it up, which gave the quarter-master
an opportunity of interfering with his intention. Two large pirogues, each manned by thirty
paddlers, showed an intention of attacking the vessels, but the latter immediately chased them.
Just as they were running ashore a struggle ensued, and the English, all but overwhelmed by
numbers, were forced to use their arms. Three or four natives were killed.

Next day, the sailors and such of the sick as could leave their hammocks landed.

The natives, intimidated by the lesson they had received in the evening, remained in concealment,
whilst the English picked cocoa-nuts, and gathered anti-scorbutic plants. These timely refreshments
were so useful that in a few days there was not a sick man on board.

Parrots, rarely beautiful, and tame doves, and several kinds of unknown birds composed the
fauna of the island, which received the name of King George--that which was discovered afterwards
was called Prince of Wales' Island. All these lands belonged to the Pomotou group, which is
also known as the Low Islands, a very suitable name for this archipelago.

On the 21st again a new chain of islands surrounded by breakers was sighted. Byron did not
attempt a thorough investigation of these, as to do so he would have incurred risks out of
proportion to the benefit to be gained. He called them the Dangerous Islands.

Six days later, Duke of York Island was discovered. The English found no inhabitants, but carried
off two hundred cocoa-nuts, which appeared to them of inestimable value.

A little farther, in latitude 1 degree 18 minutes south, longitude 173 degrees 46 minutes west,
a desert island received the name of Byron; it was situated eastward of the Gilbert group.

The heat was overwhelming, and the sailors, weakened, by their long voyage and want of proper
food, in addition to the putrid water they had been forced to drink, were almost all attacked
by dysentery.

At length, on the 28th of July, Byron joyfully recognized Saypan and Tinian Islands, which
form part of the Marianne or Ladrone Islands, and he prepared to anchor in the very spot where
Lord Anson had cast anchor with the Centurion. Tents were immediately prepared for the sufferers
from scurvy. Almost all the sailors had been attacked by this terrible disease, many even had
been at the point of death. The captain undertook to explore the dense wood which extended
to the very edge of the shore, in search of the lovely country so enthusiastically described
in the account written by Lord Anson's chaplain. How far were these enchanting descriptions
from the truth! Impenetrable forests met him on every side, overgrown plants, briars, and tangled
shrubs, at every step caught and tore his clothes. At the same time the explorers were attacked
and stung by clouds of mosquitoes. Game was scarce and wild, the water detestable, the roadstead
was never more dangerous than at this season.

The halt was made, therefore, under unfortunate auspices. Still, in the end limes, bitter oranges,
cocoa-nuts, bread-fruits, guavas, and others were found. But although these productions were
beneficial to the invalids, who were shortly restored to vigour, the malarious atmosphere caused
such violent fever that two sailors succumbed to it. In addition, the rain fell unceasingly
and the heat was overpowering. Byron says that he never experienced such terrific heat, even
in his visits to the coast of Guinea, the East Indies, or St. Thomas Island, which is immediately
below the equator.

Fowls and wild pigs which weighed about 2 cwt. each, were easily procurable, but had to be
eaten immediately, as in less than a hour decomposition took place. Lastly, the fish caught
upon this shore was so unwholesome, that even those who ate it in moderation became dangerously
ill, and risked their lives.

After a stay of nine weeks, the two ships, amply provisioned, left the port of Tinian. Byron
continued his route to the north, after having passed Anatacan Island, already discovered by
Anson. He hoped to meet the N.E. monsoon before reaching the Bashees, which form the extreme
north of the Philippines. Upon the 22nd he perceived Grafton Island, the most northerly of
this group, and upon the 3rd of November he arrived at Timoan, which had been mentioned by
Dampier as a favourable place for procuring provisions. The natives, however, who are of Malay
descent, refused the offer of hatchets, knives, and iron instruments in exchange for fowls--they
demanded rupees. Finally they accepted some handkerchiefs in payment of a dozen fowls, a goat
and its kid. Fortunately fish was abundant, as it would have been impossible to procure fresh
victuals.

Byron set sail once more on the 7th November, passed Poulo Condor at a distance, stopped at
Poulo Taya, where he encountered a vessel bearing Dutch colours, but which was manned entirely
by Malays. Reaching Sumatra, he explored the coast and cast anchor at Batavia, the principal
seat of Dutch power in the East Indies, on the 20th November.

At this time there were more than one hundred ships, large and small, in this roadstead, so
flourishing was the trade of the East India Company at this epoch. The town was at the height
of its prosperity. Its large and open thoroughfares, its admirable canals, bordered by pine-trees,
its regular buildings, singularly recalled the cities of the Netherlands.

Portuguese, Chinese, English, Dutch, Persians, Moors, and Malays, mixed in the streets, and
transacted business. Fêtes, receptions, gaieties of every kind impressed new comers with a
high idea of the prosperity of the town, and contributed to make their stay a pleasant one.
The sole drawback, and it was a serious one to crews after so long a voyage, was the unhealthiness
of the locality, where endemic fevers abound. Byron being aware of this, hurried the embarkation
of his provisions, and set sail after an interval of twelve days.

Short as their stay had been, it had been too long. The fleet had scarcely reached the strait
of the sound, before a malignant fever broke out among the crew, disabling half their number,
and ending in the death of three sailors.

After forty-eight days' navigation, Byron perceived the coast of Africa, and cast anchor three
days later in Table Bay.

Cape Town furnished all that he could require. Provisions, water, medicines, were all shipped
with a rapidity which sufficiently indicated their anxiety to return, and once more the prow
of the vessel was directed homewards.

Two incidents occurred on the passage across the Atlantic, thus described by Byron.

"Off St. Helena, in fine weather, and with a favourable wind, the vessel, then at a considerable
distance from land, received a shock which was as severe as if she had struck on a rock. Its
violence so alarmed us that we all ran to the bridge. Our fears were dissipated when we saw
the sea tinged with blood to a great distance. We concluded that we had come in contact with
a whale or a grampus, and that our ship had apparently received no damage, which was true."

A few days later, however, the Tamar was found to be in such a dilapidated state, such grave
injuries were discovered in her rudder, that it was necessary to invent something to replace
it, and to enable her to reach the Antilles, it being too great a risk to allow her to continue
her voyage.

Upon the 9th of May, 1766, the Dauphin anchored in the Downs, after a voyage round the world
which had lasted for twenty-three months.

This was the most fortunate of all the circumnavigation voyages undertaken by the English.
Up to this date, no purely scientific voyage had been attempted. If it was less fruitful of
results than had been anticipated, the fault lay not so much with the captain as with the Lords
of the Admiralty. They were not sufficiently accurate in their instructions, and had not taken
the trouble (as was done in later voyages) of sending special professors of the various branches
of science with the expedition.

Full justice, however, was paid to Byron. The title of Admiral was conferred on him, and an
important command in the East Indies was entrusted to him. But we have no interest in the latter
part of his life, which ended in 1786, and to that, therefore, we need not allude.

Admirable indeed is the training acquired in these voyages round the world. In them the crew,
the officers, and sailors, are constantly brought face to face with unforeseen difficulties
and dangers, which call forth the best qualities of the sailor, the soldier, and the man!

If France succumbed to the naval superiority of Great Britain during the revolutionary and
imperial wars, was it not fully as much owing to this stern training of the British seaman,
as to the internal dissensions which deprived France of the services of the greater part of
her naval staff?

Be this as it may, the English Admiralty, shortly after Byron's return, organized a new expedition.
Their preparations appear to have been far too hasty. The Dauphin only anchored in the Downs
at the beginning of May, and six weeks later, on the 19th of June, Captain Samuel Wallis received
the command.

This officer, after attaining the highest rank in the military marine service, had been entrusted
with an important command in Canada, and had assisted in the capture of Louisburgh. We cannot
tell what qualities commended him to the Admiralty in preference to his companions in arms,
but in any case, the noble lords had no reason to regret their decision. Wallis hastened the
needful preparations on board the Dauphin, and on the 21st of August (less than a month after
receiving his commission), he joined the sloop Swallow and the Prince Frederick in Plymouth
Harbour.

The latter was in charge of Lieutenant Brine, the former was commanded by Philip Carteret.
Both were most distinguished officers who had just returned from a voyage round the world with
Commodore Byron, and whose reputation was destined to be increased by their second voyage.

The Swallow, unfortunately, appears to have been quite unfit for the service demanded of her.
Having already been thirty years in service, the sheathing was very much worn, and her keel
was not studded with nails, which might have served instead of sheathing to protect her from
parasites. Again the provisions and marketable commodities were so unequally divided, that
the Swallow received much less than the Dauphin. Carteret begged in vain for a rope yarn, a
forge, and various things which his experience told him would be indispensable.

This rebuff confirmed Carteret in his notion that he should not get further than the Falkland
Isles, but none the less he took every precaution which his experience dictated to him.

As soon as the equipment was complete, on the 22nd of April 1766, the vessels set sail. It
did not take Wallis long to find out that the Swallow was a bad sailer, and that he might anticipate
much trouble during his voyage. However, no accident happened during the voyage to Madeira,
where the vessels put in to revictual.

Upon leaving the port, the commander supplied Carteret with a copy of his instructions, and
selected Port Famine, in the Strait of Magellan, as a rendezvous, in case of separation.

Their stay at Port Praya, in the Island of Santiago, was shortened on account of the ravages
committed there by the small-pox, and Wallis would not even allow his crew to land. Shortly
after leaving the Equator, the Prince Frederick gave signs of distress, and it was necessary
to send the carpenter on board to stop up a leak on the larboard side. This vessel, which was
provided with inferior provisions, counted already a number of sick among her crew.

Towards eight o'clock in the evening of the 19th of November, the crews perceived in the N.E.
a meteor of extraordinary appearance, moving in a straight line towards the S.W. with marvellous
rapidity. It was visible for almost a minute, and left behind a trail of light, so bright that
the deck was illuminated as if it were mid-day.

On the 8th of December, the coast of Patagonia was at last visible. Wallis skirted it until
he reached Cape Virgin, where he landed with the armed detachments of the Swallow and Prince
Frederick. A crowd of natives awaited them upon the shore, and received with apparent satisfaction
the knives, scissors, and other trifles which it was usual to distribute upon such occasions,
but they would not part with guanacos, ostriches, or any other game which were seen in their
possession for any consideration. Wallis says,--

"We took the measure of the largest of them, one was six feet six inches in height, several
were five feet five inches, but the average was five foot six, or six feet."

It must be remembered that these were English feet, which are only 305 millemetres.

If these natives were not quite so tall as the giants mentioned by previous navigators, they
were very little less striking.

"Each one," continues the narrative, "carried a strange kind of weapon, it consisted of two
round stones, covered with copper, each of which weighed about a pound, and they were attached
at both ends to a cord about eight feet long. They used them like slings, holding one of the
stones in the hand, and whirling the other round the head until it attained sufficient velocity,
when they threw it towards the object they wished to strike. They managed this weapon so adroitly
that they could strike a butt no larger than a shilling with both stones, at a distance of
fifteen roods. They did not, however, employ it in chasing guanacos or ostriches."

Wallis conducted eight of these Patagonians on board. They did not appear surprised, as one
would have expected, at the number of new and extraordinary things they met with. They advanced,
retired, made a thousand grimaces before the mirrors, shouted with laughter, and conversed
animatedly among themselves. Their attention was attracted by the pigs for a moment, but they
were immensely amused with the guinea fowls and turkeys. It was difficulty to persuade them
to leave the vessel. At last they returned to the shore, singing and making signs of delight
to their countrymen who awaited them on the bank.

On the 17th of December, Wallis signalled the Swallow to head the squadron for the passage
of the Straits of Magellan.

At Port Famine the commander had two tents erected on shore for the sick, the wood-cutters,
and the sailors. Fish in sufficient quantities for each day's meal, abundance of celery, and
acid fruits similar to cranberries and barberries, were to be found in this harbour, and in
the course of about a fortnight these remedies completely restored the numerous sufferers from
scurvy. The vessels were repaired and partially calked, the sails were mended, the rigging,
which had been a good deal strained, was overhauled and repaired, and all was soon ready for
sea again.

But Wallis first ordered a large quantity of wood to be cut and conveyed on board the Prince
Frederick, for transport to the Falkland Isles, where it is not obtainable. At the same time
he had hundreds of young trees carefully dug up, and the roots covered in their native soil
to facilitate their transplantation in Port Egmont, that in taking root--as there was reason
to hope they would--they might supply the barren archipelago with this precious commodity.

Lastly, the provisions were divided between the Dauphin and the Swallow. The former taking
sufficient for a year, the latter for ten months.

We will not enlarge upon the different incidents which befell the two ships in the Straits
of Magellan, such as sudden gales, tempests and snowstorms, irregular and rapid currents, heavy
seas and fogs, which more than once brought the vessels within an inch of destruction. The
Swallow especially, was in such a dilapidated condition, that Carteret besought Wallis to consider
his vessel no longer of any use in the expedition, and to tell him what course should best
be pursued for the public good.

Wallis replied, "The orders of the Admiralty are concise, and you must conform to them, and
accompany the Dauphin as long as possible. I am aware that the Swallow is a bad sailer; I will
accommodate myself to her speed, and follow her movements, for it is most important that in
case of accident to one of the ships, the other should be within reach, to give all the assistance
in her power."

Carteret had nothing to urge in reply, but he augured badly for the result of the expedition.

As the ships approached the opening of the straits on the Pacific side, the weather became
abominable. A thick fog, falls of snow and rain, currents which sent the vessels on to the
breakers, a chopping sea, contributed to detain the navigators in the straits until the 10th
of April. On that day, the Dauphin and Swallow were separated off Cape Pilar, and could not
find each other, Wallis not having fixed a rendezvous in case of separation.

Before we follow Wallis on his voyage across the Pacific, we will give a short account of the
wretched natives of Tierra del Fuego, and of the general appearance of their country. These
wretches, who were as miserable and debased as possible, subsisted upon the raw flesh of seals
and penguins.

"One of our men," says Wallis, "who fished with a line, bestowed a live fish, which he had
just caught, and which was about the size of a herring, upon one of these Americans. He took
it with the eagerness of a dog snatching a bone. He commenced operations by killing the fish
with a bite near the gills, and proceeded to devour it, beginning at the head and finishing
at the tail, without rejecting the bones, fins, scales, or entrails. In fact, these people
swallowed everything that was offered to them, cooked or uncooked, fresh or salt, but they
refused all drink but water. Their sole covering was a miserable seal-skin reaching to the
knees. Their weapons were javelins tipped with a fish-bone. They all suffered from bad eyes,
which the English attributed to their custom of living in smoke to protect themselves from
mosquitos. Lastly, they emitted a most offensive smell, only to be likened to that of foxes,
which doubtless arose from their excessively filthy habits."

Although certainly not inviting, this picture is graphic, as all navigators testify. It would
appear that progress is not possible to these savages, so nearly allied to brutes. Civilization
is a dead letter to them, and they still vegetate like their forefathers, with no wish to improve,
and with no ambition to attain a more comfortable existence. Wallis continues,--

"Thus we quitted this savage and uninhabitable region, where for four months we had been in
constant danger of shipwreck, where in the height of summer the weather is foggy, cold, and
stormy, where almost all the valleys are without verdure, and the mountains without woods,
in short where the land which one can see rather resembles the ruins of a world, than the abode
of living creatures."

Wallis was scarcely free of the strait, when he set sail westward in spite of dense fogs, and
with high wind and such a heavy sea, that for weeks together there was not a dry corner in
the ship.

The constant exposure to damp engendered cold and severe fevers, to which scurvy shortly succeeded.
Upon reaching 32 degrees south latitude, and 100 degrees west longitude, the navigator steered
due north.

Upon the 6th of June, two islands were discovered amidst general rejoicings.

The ships' boats, well armed and equipped, reached the shore under command of Lieutenant Furneaux.
A quantity of cocoa-nuts and anti-scorbutic plants were obtained, but although the English
found huts and sheds, they did not meet with a single inhabitant. This island was discovered
on the eve of Whitsunday and hence received the name Whitsunday.

It is situated in 19 degrees 26 minutes south latitude, and 137 degrees 56' minutes west longitude.
Like the following islands, it belongs to the Pomotou group.

Next day, the English endeavoured to make overtures to the inhabitants of another island, but
the natives appeared so ill-disposed and the coast was so steep, that it was impossible to
land. After tacking about all night, Wallis despatched the boats, with orders not to use violence
to the inhabitants if they could avoid it, or unless absolutely obliged.

As Lieutenant Furneaux approached the land, he was astonished by the sight of two large pirogues
with double masts, in which the natives were on the eve of embarking.

As soon as they had done so, the English landed, and searched the island thoroughly. They discovered
several pits full of good water. The soil was firm, sandy, covered with trees, more especially
cocoanut-trees, palm-trees, and sprinkled with anti-scorbutic plants. The narrative says,--

"The natives of this island were of moderate stature. Their skin was brown, and they had long
black hair, straggling over the shoulders. The men were finely formed, and the women were beautiful.
Some coarse material formed their garment, which was tied round the waist, and appeared to
be intended to be raised round the shoulders. In the afternoon, Wallis sent the lieutenant
to procure water and to take possession of the island in the name of King George III. It was
called Queen Charlotte's Island, in honour of the English queen."

After reconnoitring personally, Wallis determined to remain in this region for a week, in order
to profit by the facilities it afforded for provisioning.

In their walks the English met with working implements made of shells, and sharpened stones
shaped like axes, scissors, and awls. They also noticed boats in course of construction, made
of boards joined together. But they were most of all astonished at meeting with tombs upon
which the dead bodies were exposed under a sort of awning, and where they putrified in the
open air.

When they quitted the island, they left hatchets, nails, bottles, and other things as reparation
for any damage they might have committed.

The 17th century teamed with philanthropic aspirations! And from the accounts of all navigators
one is led to believe that the theory so much advocated was put into practice upon most occasions.
Humanity had made great strides. Difference of colour no longer presented an insuperable barrier
to a man's being treated as a brother, and the convention which at the close of the century
ordered the freedom of the black, set a seal to the convictions of numbers.

The Dauphin discovered new land, the same day that she left Queen Charlotte's Island. It lay
to the westward, but after cruising along the coast, the vessel was unable to find anchorage.
Lying low, it was covered with trees, neither cocoa-nuts nor inhabitants were to be found,
and it evidently was merely a rendezvous for the hunters and fishers of the neighbouring islands.
Wallis therefore decided not to stop. It received the name of Egmont, in honour of Earl Egmont,
then chief Lord of the Admiralty. The following days brought new discoveries. Gloucester, Cumberland,
William, Henry, and Osnaburgh Islands, were sighted in succession. Lieutenant Furneaux was
able to procure provisions without landing at the last named.

Observing several large pirogues on the beach, he drew the conclusion that other and perhaps
larger islands would be found at no great distance, where they would probably find abundant
provisions, and to which access might be less difficult. His pre-vision was right. As the sun
rose upon the 19th, the English sailors were astonished at finding themselves surrounded by
pirogues of all sizes, having on board no less than eight hundred natives. After having consulted
together at some distance, a few of the natives approached, holding in their hands banana branches.
They were on the point of climbing up the vessels, when an absurd accident interrupted these
cordial relations.

One of them had climbed into the gangway when a goat ran at him. Turning he perceived the strange
animal upon its hind legs preparing to attack him again. Overcome with terror, he jumped back
into the sea, an example quickly followed by the others. It recalled the incident of the sheep
of Panurge.

Recovering from this alarm, they again climbed into the ship, and brought all their cunning
to bear upon petty thefts. However, only one officer had his hat stolen. The vessel all the
time was following the coast in search of a fitting harbour, whilst the boats coasted the shore
for soundings.

The English had never found a more picturesque and attractive country in any of their voyages.
On the shore, the huts of the natives were sheltered by shady woods, in which flourished graceful
clusters of cocoanut-trees. Graduated chains of hills, with wooded summits, and the silver
sheen of rivers glistening amid the verdure as they found their way to the sea, added to the
beauty of the interior.

The boats sent to take soundings were suddenly surrounded at the entrance of a large bay by
a crowd of pirogues. Wallis, to avoid a collision, gave the order for the discharge from the
swivel gun above the natives' heads, but although the noise terrified them, they still continued
their approach.

The captain accordingly ordered his boats to make for the shore, and the natives finding themselves
disregarded, threw some sharp stones which wounded a few sailors. But the captains of the boats
replied to this attack by a volley of bullets, which injured one of them, and was followed
by the flight of the rest.

The Dauphin anchored next day at the mouth of a large river in twenty fathoms of water. The
sailors rejoiced universally. The natives immediately surrounded them with pirogues, bringing
pigs, fowls, and various fruits, which were quickly exchanged for hardware and nails. One of
the boats employed in taking soundings, however, was attacked by blows from paddles and sticks,
and the sailors were forced to use their weapons. One native was killed, a second severely
wounded, and the rest jumped into the water. Seeing that they were not pursued, and conscious
that they themselves had been the aggressors, they returned to traffic with the Dauphin as
if nothing had happened. Upon returning on board, the officers reported that the natives had
invited them to land, more especially the women, with unequivocal gestures, and that moreover,
there was excellent anchorage near the shore within reach of water.

The only inconvenience arose from a considerable swell. The Dauphin accordingly weighed anchor
and proceeded into the open sea to run with the wind, when all at once Wallis perceived a bay
seven or eight miles distant, which he determined to reach. The captain was soon to experience
the truth of the proverb which asserts that one had better leave well alone.

Although soundings were taken by the boats as they advanced, the Dauphin struck on a rock and
damaged her forepart. The usual measures in such a case were taken immediately, but outside
the chain of madreporic rocks no depth could be sounded. It was consequently impossible to
cast anchor, or to use the capstan. What course had best be pursued in this critical situation?
The vessel beat violently against the rocks, and a host of pirogues waited in expectation of
a shipwreck, eager to clutch their prey. Fortunately at the end of an hour a favourable breeze
rising, disengaged the Dauphin, and wafted her into good anchorage. The damage done was not
serious, and was as easily repaired as forgotten.

Wallis, rendered prudent by the constant efforts of the natives, divided his men into four
parties, one of which was always to be armed. And he ordered guns to be fired. But after one
or two rounds the number of pirogues increased, and no longer laden with poultry, they appeared
to be filled with stones. The crews of the larger vessels also were augmented.

All at once upon a given signal a storm of pebbles fell upon the ship. Wallis ordered a general
discharge, and had two guns loaded with fine shot. The natives, after some slight hesitation
and disorder, returned to the attack with great bravery; and the captain, noticing the constantly
increasing numbers of the assailants, was not without anxiety as to the result, when an unexpected
event put an end to the contest.

Among the pirogues which attacked the Dauphin most energetically, was one which appeared to
contain a chief, as from it the signal of attack was given. A well-directed shot cut this double
pirogue in two.

This was enough to decide the natives upon retreat. They set about it so precipitately that
in less than half an hour not a single boat remained in sight. The vessel was then towed into
port, and so placed as to protect the disembarkation. Lieutenant Furneaux landed at the head
of a strong detachment of sailors and marines, and planting the English flag, took possession
of the island in the name of the King of England, in whose honour it was named George the Third.
The natives called it Tahiti.

After prostrating themselves, and offering various marks of repentance, the natives appeared
anxious to commence friendly and honest business with the English, but fortunately Wallis,
who was detained on board by severe illness, perceived preparations for a simultaneous attack
by land and sea upon the men sent to find water. The shorter the struggle the less the loss!
Acting upon which principle, directly the natives came within gunshot range, a few discharges
dispersed their fleet.

To put a stop to these attempts, it was necessary to make an example. Wallis decided with regret
that it was so. He accordingly sent a detachment on shore at once with his carpenters, ordering
them to destroy every pirogue which was hauled up on the beach. More than fifty, many of them
sixty feet long, were hacked to pieces. Upon this the Tahitians decided to give in. They brought
pigs, dogs, stuffs, and fruits to the shore, placed them there, and then withdrew. The English
left in exchange hatchets and toys which were carried off to the forest with many delighted
gestures.

Peace was established, and from the morrow a regular and abundant traffic commenced, which
supplied the ships with the fresh provisions needed by the crews. There was ground for hope
that these amicable relations would continue during their stay in the island, now that the
natives had once realized the power and effect of the strangers' weapons. Wallis, therefore,
ordered a tent to be prepared near the water supply, and disembarked all the sufferers from
scurvy, whilst the healthy members of his company were engaged in repairing the rigging, mending
the sails, and calking and repainting the vessel, putting her, in short, in a condition fitted
for the long journey which was to take her to England.

At this juncture Wallis's illness assumed an alarming character. The first lieutenant was in
hardly better health. All the responsibility of the expedition fell upon Furneaux, who was
quite equal to the task. After a rest of fifteen days, during which the peace had not been
disturbed, Wallis found all his invalids restored to health.

Provisions, however, became less plentiful. The natives, spoilt by the abundance of nails and
hatchets, became more exacting.

Upon the 15th of July, a tall woman, apparently some forty-five years of age, of majestic appearance,
and who seemed to be much respected by the natives, came on board the Dauphin. Wallis at once
perceived by the dignity of her deportment, and the freedom of her manner, peculiar to persons
habituated to command, that she was of high station. He presented her with a blue mantle, a
looking-glass, and other gewgaws, which she received with an expression of profound contentment.
Upon leaving the vessel she invited the captain to land, and to pay her a visit. Wallis, although
still very weak, did not fail to comply with this request next day. He was conducted to a large
hut, which covered about 327 feet in length, and 42 in width. The roof was constructed of palm
leaves and was supported by fifty-three pillars.

A considerable crowd, collected together by the event, lined the approach, and received him
respectfully. The visit was enlivened by a comical incident. The surgeon of the vessel, who
perspired greatly from the effects of the walk, to relieve himself took off his wig. A sudden
exclamation from one of the Indians at this sight, drew general attention to the prodigy, and
all fixed their eyes upon it. The whole assemblage remained perfectly still for some moments,
in the silence of astonishment, which could not have been greater if they had seen one of our
company decapitated.

Next day, a messenger, sent to convey a present to Queen Oberoa, in acknowledgment of her gracious
reception, found her giving a feast to several hundred persons.

Her servants carried the dishes to her already prepared, the meat in cocoa-nut shells, and
the shell fish in a sort of wooden trough, similar to those used by our butchers. She herself
distributed them with her own hands to each of her guests, who were sitting and standing all
round the house. When this was over, she seated herself upon a sort of raised dais, and two
women beside her gave her her food. They offered the viands to her in their fingers; and she
had only to take the trouble to open her mouth.

The consequences of this exchange of civilities were speedily felt. The market was once more
fully supplied with provisions, although no longer at the same low price as upon the first
arrival of the English.

Lieutenant Furneaux reconnoitred the length of the coast westward, to gain an idea of the island,
and to see what it was possible to obtain from it. The English were everywhere well received.
They found a pleasant country, densely populated, whose inhabitants appeared in no hurry to
sell their commodities. All their working implements were either of stone or of bone, which
led Lieutenant Furneaux to infer that the Tahitians possess no metals.

As they had no earthenware vessels, they had no idea that water could be heated. They discovered
it one day when the queen dined on board. One of the principal members of her suite, having
seen the surgeon pour water from the boiler into the teapot, turned the tap and received the
scalding liquor upon his hand. Finding himself burnt, he uttered most frightful screams, and
ran round the cabin making most extravagant gestures. His companions, unable to imagine what
had happened to him, stared at him with mingled astonishment and fear. The surgeon hastened
to interfere, but for a long time the poor Tahitian refused to be comforted.

Some days later, Wallis discovered that his sailors stole nails to give them to the native
women. They even went so far as to raise the planks of the ship to obtain screws, nails, bolts,
and all the bits of iron which united them to the timbers. Wallis treated the offence rigorously,
but nothing availed, and in spite of the precaution he took, of allowing no one to leave the
vessel without being searched, these robberies constantly occurred.

An expedition, undertaken into the interior, discovered a large valley watered by a beautiful
river. Everywhere the soil was carefully cultivated, and arrangements had been made for watering
the gardens and the fruit plantations. Farther penetrations into the interior proved the capacious
windings of the river; the valley narrowed, the hills were succeeded by mountains, at every
step the way became more difficult. A peak, distant about six miles from the place of landing,
was climbed, in the hope of thus discovering the entire island, even to its smallest recesses.
But the view was intercepted by yet higher mountains. On the side towards the sea, however,
nothing interfered with the magnificent view which stretched before their gaze, everywhere
hills, covered with magnificent woods, upon whose verdant slopes the huts of the natives stood
out clearly, and in the valleys with their numberless cabins, and gardens surrounded by hedges,
the scenes were still more enchanting. The sugar cane, ginger plant, tamarind and tree ferns,
with cocoanut-trees, furnished the principal resources of this fertile country.

Wallis, wishing to enrich it still more with the productions of our own climate, caused peach,
cherry, and plum stones to be planted, as well as lemon, orange and lime pips, and sowed quantities
of vegetable seeds. At the same time he gave the queen a present of a cat about to kitten,
of two cocks, fowls, geese, and other domestic animals, which he hoped might breed well.

However, time pressed, and Wallis decided to leave. When he announced his intention to the
queen, she threw herself upon a seat and cried for a long time, with so much grief that it
was impossible to comfort her. She remained upon the vessel up to the last moment, and as it
set sail "embraced us," says Wallis, "in the tenderest way, weeping plenteously, and our friends
the Tahitians bade us farewell, with so much sorrow, and in so touching a manner, that I felt
heavy-hearted, and my eyes filled with tears." The uncourteous reception of the English, and
the repeated attempts made by the natives to seize the vessel, would hardly have led to the
idea of a painful separation! However, as the proverb has it, All's well that ends well!

Of Wallis' observations of the manners and customs of the island, we shall only enumerate the
few following, as we shall have occasion to return to them again in relating the voyages undertaken
by Bougainville and Cook.

Tall, well built, active, slightly dark in complexion, the natives were clothed in a species
of white stuff made from the bark of trees. Two pieces of stuff completed their costume, one
was square and looked like a blanket. The head was thrust through a hole in the centre, and
it recalled the "zarapo" of the Mexicans, and the "poncho" of the South American Indian. The
second piece was rolled round the body, without being tightened. Almost all, men and women,
tattoo their bodies with black lines close together, representing different figures. The operation
was thus performed: the pattern was pricked in the skin, and the holes filled with a sort of
paste composed of oil and grease, which left an indelible mark.

Civilization has little advanced. We have already stated that the Tahitians did not understand
earthenware vessels. Wallis, therefore, presented the queen with a saucepan, which everybody
flocked to inspect with extreme curiosity.

As to religion, the captain found no trace of that! He only noticed that upon entering certain
places, which he took to be cemeteries, they maintained a respectful appearance, and wore mourning
apparel.

One of the natives, more disposed than his companions to adopt English manners, was presented
with a complete suit of clothes, which became him very well. Jonathan--so they had named him,
was quite proud of his new outfit. To put the finishing touch to his manners, he desired to
learn the use of a fork. But habit was too strong for him! his hands always went to his mouth!
and the bit of meat at the end of the fork, found its way to his ear.

It was the 27th of July, when Wallis left the George III. Island. After coasting Duke of York
Island, he discovered several islands or islets in succession, upon which he did not touch.
For example, Charles Saunders, Lord Howe, Scilly, Boscawen, and Keppel Islands, where the hostile
character of the natives, and the difficulty of disembarkation prevented his landing.

Winter was now to begin in the southern region. The vessel leaked in all directions, the stern
especially was much strained by the rudder. Was it wise, under such circumstances, to sail
for Cape Horn or the Straits of Magellan? Would it not be running the risk of certain shipwreck?
Would it not be better to reach Tinian or Batavia, where repairs were possible, and to return
to Europe by the Cape of Good Hope?

Wallis decided upon the latter course. He steered for the north-west, and upon the 19th of
September, after a voyage which was too fortunate to supply any incidents, he cast anchor in
the Tinian harbour.

The incidents which marked Byron's stay in this place were repeated, with far too much regularity.
Wallis could not rejoice over its facilities for provisioning, or the temperature of the country,
any more than his predecessors. But the sufferers from scurvy recovered in a short time, the
sails were mended, and the vessel calked and repaired, and the crew had the unexpected good
fortune of catching no fever.

On the 16th October, 1769, the Dauphin returned to sea, but this time, she encountered a succession
of frightful storms, which tore the sails, reopened the leakage, broke the rudder, and carried
away the poop with all that was to be found on the forecastle.

However, the Bashees were rounded, and Formosa Strait crossed, Sandy Isle, Small Key, Long
Island, and New Island were recognized, as also, Condor, Timor, Aros, and Pisang, Pulo-Taya,
Pulo-Toté, and Sumatra, before the arrival at Batavia, which took place upon the 30th of November.

We have already had occasion to mention the localities which witnessed the completion of the
voyage. It is enough to state that from Batavia, where the crews took the fever, Wallis proceeded
by the Cape, thence to St. Helena, and finally arrived in the Downs, on the 20th of May, 1768,
after six hundred and thirty-seven days' voyage.

It is to be regretted that Hawkesworth has not reproduced the instructions Wallis received
from the Admiralty. Without knowing what they were, we cannot decide whether this brave sailor
carried out the orders he had received au pied de la lettre. We have seen that he followed
with little variation the route traced by his predecessors, in the Pacific Ocean. In fact,
nearly all had approached by the dangerous archipelago, leaving unexplored that portion of
Oceania, where islands are most numerous, and where Cook was later to make such important discoveries.

Clever as a navigator, Wallis understood how to obtain from a hasty and incomplete equipment
unexpected resources, which enabled him to bring an adventurous enterprise to a successful
close. He is equally to be honoured for his humanity and the efforts he made to collect reliable
information of the countries he visited. Had he only been accompanied by special men of science,
there is no doubt that their scientific harvest would have been abundant.

The fault lay with the Admiralty.

We have related how, on the 10th of April, 1767, as the Dauphin and the Swallow entered the
Pacific, the former, carried away by a strong breeze, had lost sight of the latter, and had
been unable to follow her. This separation was most unfortunate for Captain Carteret. He knew
better than any of his crew the dilapidated condition of his vessel and the insufficiency of
his provisions. In short, he was well aware that he could only hope to meet the Dauphin in
England, as no plan of operation had been arranged, and no rendezvous had been named--a grave
omission on Wallis' part, who was aware of the condition of his consort.

Nevertheless, Carteret allowed none of his apprehensions to come to the knowledge of the crew.
At first the detestable weather experienced by the Swallow upon the Pacific Ocean (most misleading
name), allowed no time for reflection. The dangers of the passing moment, in which there was
every prospect of their being engulfed, hid from them the perils of the future.

Carteret steered for the north, by the coast of Chili. Upon investigating the quantity of soft
water which he had on board, he found it quite insufficient for the voyage he had undertaken.
He determined therefore, before setting sail for the west, to take in water at Juan Fernandez,
or at Mas-a-Fuero.

The weather continued wretched. Upon the evening of the 27th a sudden squall was followed by
a rising wind, which carried the vessel straight to the Cape. The violence of the storm failed
to carry away the masts or to founder the ship. The tempest continued in all its fury, and
the sails being extremely wet, clung round the masts and rigging so closely, that it was impossible
to work them. Next day a sudden wave broke the mizen-mast, just where there was a flaw in the
sail, and submerged the vessels for a few moments. The storm only abated sufficiently to allow
the crew of the Swallow time to recover a little, and to repair the worst damage; then recommenced,
and continued with violent squalls until the 7th of May. The wind then became favourable, and
three days later Juan Fernandez was reached.

Carteret was not aware that the Spaniards had fortified this island. He was, therefore, extremely
surprised at seeing a large number of men upon the shore, and at perceiving a battery of four
pieces on the beach, and a fort, pierced with twenty embrasures and surmounted by the Spanish
flag, upon a hill.

The rising wind prevented an entrance into Cumberland Bay, and after cruising about for an
entire day, Carteret was obliged to content himself with reaching Mas-a-Fuero. But he met the
same obstacles, and the surge which broke upon the shore interfered with his operations, and
it was only with the utmost difficulty that he succeeded in shipping a few casks of water.
Some of the crew, who had been forced by the state of the sea to remain on land, killed guinea
fowls enough to feed the entire crew. These, with the exception of some seals and plenty of
fish, were the sole result of a stay, marked by a succession of squalls and storms, which constantly
placed the ship in danger.

Carteret, who, owing to unfavourable winds, had had several opportunities of noticing Mas-a-Fuero,
corrected many of the errors in the account of Lord Anson's voyage, and furnished many details
of inestimable use to navigators.

On leaving Mas-a-Fuero, Carteret steered northward in the hope of meeting the south-eastern
trade wind. Carried farther than he had counted upon, he determined to seek St. Ambrose, and
St. Felix Island, or the island of St. Paul. Now that the Spaniards had taken possession of
and fortified Juan Fernandez, those islands might be of great value to the English in the event
of war.

But Mr. Green's charts and the "Elements of Navigation" by Robertson did not tally as to their
situation. Carteret, having most confidence in the latter work, sought for them in the north,
and failed to find them. In re-reading the description given by Waser, Davis' surgeon, he thought
these two islands were identical with the land met with by that filibuster, in his route to
the south of the Galapagos Islands, and that Davis' Land did not exist. This caused a double
error, that of identifying St. Felix Island with Davis' Land, and of denying the existence
of the latter, which is in reality Easter Island.

"At this parallel," says Carteret, that is in 18 degrees west from his point of departure,
"we had fresh breezes, and a strong northerly current, and other reasons for conjecturing that
we were near Davis' Land, which we were seeking so carefully. But a stiff breeze rising again,
we steered quarter S.W. and reached 28-1/2 degrees southern latitude, from which it follows
that if this land or anything answering to it exists, I must infallibly have fallen in with
it, or at least have seen it. I afterwards remained in 28 degrees south latitude, and 40 degrees
west of my point of departure, and as far as I can conjecture 121 degrees west London."

All the navigators combined in insisting upon the existence of a southern continent. Carteret
could not conceive that Davis' Land was but a small island, a spot lost in the immensity of
the ocean. As he found no continent, he decided upon the non-existence of Davis' Land. It was
precisely in this way that he was misled.

Carteret continued his search until the 7th of June. He was in 28 degrees south latitude and
112 degrees west longitude, that is to say, he was in the immediate neighbourhood of Easter
Island. It was still the depth of winter. The sea ran continually high, violent and variable
winds, dull, foggy, and cold weather was accompanied by thunder, rain, and snow. No doubt it
was owing to the great darkness, and to the thick fog, which hid the sun for several days,
that Carteret failed to perceive Easter Island, for many signs, such as the number of birds,
floating seaweeds, &c., announced the neighbourhood of land.

These atmospheric troubles again retarded the voyage, in addition to which the Swallow was
as bad a sailer as possible, and one may guess at the weariness, the preoccupation, even the
mental suffering of the captain, who saw his crew on the point of starvation. But in spite
of all, the voyage was continued by day and night in a westerly direction until the 2nd of
July. Upon this day land was discovered to the north, and on the morrow, Carteret was sufficiently
close to recognize it. It was only a great rock five miles in circumference, covered with trees,
which appeared uninhabited, but the swell, so prevalent at this time of year, prevented the
vessel coming alongside. It was named Pitcairn, after the first discoverer. In these latitudes,
the sailors, previously in good health, felt the first attacks of scurvy.

Upon the 11th, a new land was seen in 22 degrees southern latitude, and 145 degrees 34 minutes
longitude. It received the name of Osnaburgh in honour of the king's second son.

Next day Carteret sent an expedition to two more islands, where neither eatables nor water
were found. The sailors caught many birds in their hands, as they were so tame that they did
not fly at the approach of man.

All these islands belonged to the Dangerous group, a long chain of low islands, clusters of
which were the despair of all navigators, for the few resources they offered. Carteret thought
he recognized Quiros in the land discovered, but this place, which is called by the natives
Tahiti, is situated more to the north.

Sickness, however, increased daily. The adverse winds, but especially the damage the ship had
sustained, made her progress very slow. Carteret thought it necessary to follow the route upon
which he was most likely to obtain provisions and the needful repairs.

"My intention in the event of my ship being repaired," says Carteret, "was to continue my voyage
to the south upon the return of a favourable season, with a view to new discoveries in that
quarter of the world. In fact, I had settled in my own mind, if I could find a continent where
sufficient provisions were procurable, to remain near its coast until the sun had passed the
Equator, then to gain a distant southern latitude and to proceed westward towards the Cape
of Good Hope, and to return eastward after touching at the Falkland Islands, should it be necessary,
and thence to proceed quickly to Europe."

These laudable intentions show Carteret to have been a true explorer, rather stimulated than
intimidated by danger, but it proved impossible to carry them into execution.

The trade wind was only met on the 16th, and the weather remained detestable. Above all, although
Carteret navigated in the neighbourhood of Danger Island, discovered in 1765 by Byron, and
by others, he saw no land.

"We probably were close by land," he says, "which the fog prevented our seeing, for in these
waters numbers of birds constantly flew round the ship. Commodore Byron in his last voyage
had passed the northern limits of this portion of the ocean, in which the Solomon Islands are
said to be situated, and as I have been myself beyond the southern limit without seeing them,
I have good reasons for thinking, that if these islands exist they have been badly marked on
all the charts."

This last supposition is correct, but the Solomon Islands do exist, and Carteret stopped there
a few days later without recognizing them. The victuals were now all but consumed or tainted,
the rigging and the sails torn by the tempest, half the crew on the sick list, when a fresh
alarm for the captain arose. A leak was reported, just below the load water-line; it was impossible
to stop it, as long as they were in the open sea. By unexpected good fortune land was seen
on the morrow. Needless to say what cries of delight, what acclamations followed this discovery.
To use Carteret's own comparison, the feelings of surprise and comfort experienced by the crew
can only be likened to those of a criminal, who at the last moment on the scaffold receives
a reprieve! It was Nitendit Island, already discovered by Mendana.

No sooner was the anchor cast than landing was hurried, in search of water supply. The natives
were black, with woolly hair, and perfectly naked. They appeared upon the shore, but fled again
before the boat could come up with them.

The leader of the landing-party described the country as wild, bristling with mountains and
impenetrable forests of trees and shrubs reaching to the shore itself, through which ran a
fine current of fresh water.

The following day, the master was sent in search of an easier landing-place, with orders to
propitiate the natives, if possible, by presents. He was expressly enjoined not to expose himself
to danger, to return if several pirogues advanced against him, not to leave the boat himself,
and not to allow more than two men to land at once, whilst the remainder held themselves on
the defensive.

Carteret, at the same time, sent his ship's boat on shore for water. Some natives attacked
it with arrows, which fortunately hit no one.

Meantime, the sloop regained the Swallow, the master had three arrows in his body, and half
his crew were so dangerously wounded that three sailors and he himself died a few days later.

This is what had happened. Landing the fifth in succession, in a spot where he had noticed
huts, he entered into friendly traffic with the natives. The latter soon increased in numbers,
and several large pirogues advanced towards his sloop, and he was unable to rejoin it until
the very moment when the attack commenced. Pursued by the arrows of the natives, who waded
up to their shoulders into the water, chased by pirogues, he only succeeded in escaping after
having killed several natives and foundered one of their boats.

This effort to find a more favourable spot where he might run the Swallow ashore, having ended
so unfortunately, Carteret heaved his ship down where he was, and efforts were made to stop
the leak. If the carpenter, the only healthy man on board, did not succeed in perfectly stopping
it, he at least considerably diminished it.

Whilst a fresh landing for water was sought, the fire of the guns was directed upon the woods
as well as volleys of musketry from the sloop. Still the sailors worked for a quarter of an
hour, when they were attacked by a shower of arrows which grievously wounded one or two in
the breast. The same measures were necessary each time they fetched water.

At this juncture, thirty of the crew became incapable of performing their duty. The master
died of his wounds. Lieutenant Gower was very ill. Carteret himself, attacked by a bilious
and inflammatory illness, was forced to keep his bed.

These three were the only officers capable of navigating the Swallow to England, and they were
on the point of succumbing.

To stay the ravages of disease, it was necessary to procure provisions at all costs, and this
was utterly impossible in this spot. Carteret weighed anchor on the 17th of August, after calling
the island Egmont, in honour of the Lord of the Admiralty, and the bay where he had anchored,
Swallow. Although convinced that it was identical with the land named Santa Cruz by the Spaniards,
the navigator nevertheless followed the prevailing mania of giving new appellations to all
the places he visited. He then coasted the shore for a short distance, and ascertained that
the population was large. He had many a crow to pick with the natives. These obstacles, and
moreover the impossibility of procuring provisions, prevented Carteret's reconnoitring the
other islands of this group, upon which he bestowed the name of Queen Charlotte.

"The inhabitants of Egmont Isle," he says, "are extremely agile, active, and vigorous. They
appear to live as well in water as on land, for they are continually jumping from their pirogues
into the sea. One of the arrows which they sent passed through the planks of the boat, and
dangerously wounded the officer at the poop in the thigh.

"Their arrows are tipped with stone, and we saw no metal of any kind in their possession. The
country in general is covered with woods and mountains and interspersed with a great number
of valleys."

On the 18th of August, 1767, Carteret left this group with the intention of regaining Great
Britain. He fully expected to meet with an island on his passage, where he might be more fortunate.
And on the 20th, he actually did so, discovering a little low island, which he named Gower,
where cocoa-nuts were procurable. Next day he encountered Simpson and Carteret Islands, and
a group of new islands which he took to be the Ohang Java, discovered by Tasman; then successively
Sir Charles Hardy and Winchelsea Islands, which he did not consider as belonging to the Solomon
Archipelago, the Island of St. John, so-called by Schouten, and finally that of New Britain,
which he gained on the 28th of August.

Carteret coasted this island, in search of a safe and convenient port, and stopped in various
bays, where he obtained water, wood, cocoa, nutmegs, aloes, sugar-canes, bamboos, and palm-cabbages.

"This cabbage," he says, "is white, crisp, of a substance filled with sugar. Eaten raw, the
flavour resembles that of a chestnut, and boiled it is superior to the best parsnip. We cut
it into small strips, and boiled it in the broth made from our cakes, and this broth, afterwards
thickened with oatmeal furnished us with a good meal."

The wood was all alive with pigeons, turtle-doves, parroquets, and other unknown birds. The
English visited several deserted huts.

If an idea of the civilization of a people can be drawn from their dwellings, these islanders
were on the lowest rung of the social ladder, for their huts were the most miserable Carteret
had ever seen.

The commander profited by his stay in this place, by once more overhauling the Swallow, and
attending to the leak, which the carpenters doctored as well as they could. The sheathing was
greatly worn, and the keel quite gnawed away by worms; they coated it with pitch and warm tar
mixed together.

On the 7th of September, Carteret accomplished the ridiculous ceremony of taking possession
of the country in the name of George III., he then despatched one of his boats upon a reconnoitring
expedition, which returned with a quantity of cocoa and palm-cabbages, most precious provision
for the sick on board.

In spite of the fact that the monsoon would soon blow from the east for a long time, Carteret,
alive to the dilapidated condition of his ship, determined to start for Batavia, where he hoped
to make up his crew, and to repair the Swallow.

Upon the 9th September, therefore, he left Carteret harbour, the best which he had met with
since leaving the Straits of Magellan.

He soon penetrated to a gulf to which Dampier had given the name of St. George Bay, and was
not long in reconnoitring for a strait which separated New Britain and New Ireland. This passage
he found and named St. George. He describes it in his narrative with a care which should certainly
have earned for him the thanks of all his contemporary navigators. He then followed the coast
of New Ireland to its southern extremity. Near a little island, which he named Sandwich, Carteret
had some dealings with the natives.

"These natives," he says "are black, and have woolly hair like negroes, but they have not flat
noses or large lips. We imagine them to be of the same race as the inhabitants of Egmont Island.
Like them they are entirely naked, if we except some ornaments of shells which they attach
to their arms and legs. At the same time, they have adopted a fashion, without which our fashionable
men and women are not supposed to be perfectly dressed. They powder their hair or rather the
wool on their heads white, from which it follows that the fashion of wearing powder is probably
of greater antiquity and of more extended fashion than we would have generally supposed. They
are armed with spears and large sticks in the shape of clubs, but we perceived neither bows
nor arrows."

At the south-western extremity of New Ireland Carteret found another land, to which he gave
the name of New Hanover, and shortly afterwards the group of the Duke of Portland.

Although all this portion of the narrative of his voyage, in countries unknown before his time,
abounds in precious details, Carteret, a far more able and zealous navigator than his predecessors
Byron and Wallis, makes excuses for not having collected more facts.

"The description of the country," he says, "and of its productions and inhabitants, would have
been far more complete and detailed had I not been so weakened and overcome by the illness
to which I had succumbed through the duties which devolved upon me from want of officers. When
I could scarcely drag myself along, I was obliged to take watch after watch and to share in
other labours with my lieutenant, who was also in a bad state of health."

After leaving St. George's Strait, the route was westward. Carteret discovered several other
islands, but illness for several days prevented his coming on deck, and therefore he could
not determine their position. He named them Admiralty Islands, and after two attacks, found
himself forced to employ fire-arms to repulse the natives.

He afterwards reconnoitred Durour and Matty Islands and the Cuedes, whose inhabitants were
quite delighted at receiving bits of an iron hoop. Carteret affirms, that he might have bought
all the productions of this country for a few iron instruments. Although they are the neighbours
of New Guinea, and of the groups they had just explored, these natives were not black, but
copper coloured. They had very long black hair, regular features, and brilliantly white teeth.
Of medium height, strong and active, they were cheerful and friendly, and came on board fearlessly.
One of them even asked permission to accompany Carteret upon his voyage, and in spite of all
the representations of his countrymen and even of the captain, he refused to leave the Swallow.
Carteret, meeting with so decided a will, consented, but the poor Indian, who had received
the name of Joseph Freewill, soon faded away and died at Celebes.

On the 29th October, the English reached the north-eastern portion of Mindanao. Always on the
look-out for fresh water and provisions, Carteret in vain looked for the bay which Dampier
had spoken of as abounding in game. A little farther off he found a watering-place, but the
hostile demonstrations of the inhabitants forced him to re-embark.

After leaving Mindanao, the captain sailed for the Straits of Macassar, between the islands
of Borneo and Celebes. They entered it on the 14th of November. The vessel then proceeded with
so much difficulty that she only accomplished twenty-eight leagues in fifteen days.

"Ill," he says, "weakened, dying, tortured by the sight of lands which we could not reach,
exposed to tempests which we found it impossible to overcome, we were attacked by a pirate!"

The latter, hoping to find the English crew asleep, attacked the Swallow in the middle of the
night. But far from allowing themselves to be cowed by this new danger, the sailors defended
themselves with so much courage and skill, that they succeeded in foundering the Malay prah.

On the 12th of December Carteret sorrowfully perceived that the western monsoon had commenced.
The Swallow was in no condition to struggle against this wind and current to reach Batavia
by the west. He must then content himself with gaining Macassar, then the principal colony
of the Dutch in the Celebes Islands.

When the English arrived, it was thirty-five weeks since they left the Straits of Magellan.

Anchor was scarcely cast, when a Dutchman, sent by the governor, came on board the Swallow.
He appeared much alarmed on finding that the vessel belonged to the English marine service.
In the morning, therefore, when Carteret sent his lieutenant, Mr. Gower, to ask for access
to the port in order to secure provisions for his dying crew, and to repair his dilapidated
ship, and await the return of the monsoon, not only could he not obtain permission to land,
but the Dutch hastened to collect their forces and arm their vessels. Finally, after five hours,
the governor's reply was brought on board. It was a refusal couched in terms as little polite
as they were equivocal. The English were simultaneously forbidden to land at any port under
Dutch government.

All Carteret's representations, his remarks upon the inhumanity of the refusal, even his hostile
demonstrations, had no other result than the sale of a few provisions, and permission to proceed
to a small neighbouring bay.

He would find there, he was told, certain shelter from the monsoon, and might set up a hospital
for his sick, that indeed he could procure more plentiful provisions there than in Macassar,
from whence they would send him all that he could need. Fearing death by starvation and foundering,
it was necessary to overlook these exactions, and Carteret proceeded to the roadstead of Bonthain.

There the sick, installed in a house, found themselves prohibited from going more than thirty
roods from their hospital.

They were kept under guard, and could not communicate with the natives. Lastly they were forbidden
to buy anything excepting through the agency of the Dutch soldiers, who strangely abused their
power, often making more than a thousand per cent. profit. All the complaints of the English
were useless. They were forced to submit during their stay, to a surveillance to the last degree
humiliating. It was only on the 22nd of May, 1768, on the return of the monsoon, that Captain
Carteret was able to leave Bonthain, after a long series of annoyances, vexations, and alarms,
which it is impossible to give in detail and which had sorely tried his patience.

"Celebes," he says, "is the key to the Moluccas, or Spice Islands, which are necessarily under
the power of the people who are masters of this island. The town of Macassar is built upon
a promontory, and is watered by one or two rivers which cross it or flow in its vicinity. The
ground is even and beautiful in appearance. There are many plantations and cocoa-nut woods,
interspersed with houses, which convey the idea that it is well populated.

"At Bonthain the beef is excellent, but it is difficult to procure enough of it to feed a fleet.
Fowls, and as much rice and fruits as can be wished, are procurable. The woods abound with
wild pigs, which are to be had cheap, because the natives, being Mohamedans, do not eat them."

These details, however incomplete, had great interest at the time they were collected, and
we go so far as to believe, that even now, some hundred years since they were first written,
they yet contain a certain amount of truth. No incident marked the voyage to Batavia. After
several delays, caused by the desire of the Dutch Company to make Carteret give them a testimonial
as to the treatment he had met with from the government of Macassar, and which he steadily
refused, Carteret at last obtained permission to repair his vessel.

On the 15th of September, the Swallow, partially refitted, set sail. She was reinforced with
a supplementary number of English sailors, without which it would have been impossible to regain
Europe. Eighty of her original crew were dead, and eighty more were so reduced that seven of
their number died before they reached the Cape.

After a stay in this port, a most salutary one for the crew, which lasted until the 6th of
January, 1769, Carteret set out once more, and a little beyond Ascension Island, at which he
had touched, he met a French vessel. It was the frigate, La Boudeuse, with which Bougainville
had just been round the world.

On the 20th of March the Swallow anchored in Spithead roadstead, after thirty-one months of
a voyage as painful as it had been dangerous.

All Carteret's nautical ability, all his sang-froid, all his enthusiasm were needed to save
so inefficient a vessel from destruction, and to make important discoveries, under such conditions.
If the perils of the voyage, add lustre to his renown, the shame of such a miserable equipment
falls upon the English Admiralty, who, despising the representations of an able captain, risked
his life and the lives of his crew upon so long a voyage.

III.

Bougainville--A notary's son metamorphosed--Colonization of the Malouine Islands--Buenos Ayres
and Rio Janeiro--The Malouines relinquished to the Spaniards--Hydrography of the Strait of
Magellan-- The Pecherais--The Quatre Facardius--Tahiti--Incidents of the stay there--Productions
of the country and manners of the inhabitants-- Samoa Islands--The Land of the Holy Spirit
or the New Hebrides--The Louisiade--The Anchorite Isles--New Guinea--Boutan--From Batavia to
St. Malo.

Whilst Wallis completed his voyage round the world, and Carteret continued his long and hazardous
circumnavigation, a fresh expedition was organized for the purpose of prosecuting new discoveries
in the Southern Seas.

Under the old régime, when all was arbitrary, titles, rank, and places were obtained by interest.
It was therefore not surprising that a military officer, who left the army scarcely four years
before with the rank of colonel, to enter the navy as a captain, should obtain this important
command.

Strangely enough, this singular measure was amply justified, thanks to the talents possessed
by the favoured recipient.

Louis Antoine de Bougainville was born at Paris, on the 13th of November, 1729. The son of
a notary, he was destined for the bar, and was already an advocate. But having no taste for
his father's profession, he devoted himself to the sciences, and published a Treatise on the
Integral Calculus, whilst he obtained a commission in the Black Musqueteers.

Of the three careers he thus entered upon, he entirely abandoned the two first, slightly neglected
the third, for the sake of a fourth--diplomacy, and finally left it entirely for a fifth--the
naval service. He was destined to die a member of the senate after a sixth metamorphosis.

First aide-de-camp to Chevret, then Secretary of the Embassy in London, where he was made a
member of the Royal Society, he left Brest in 1756, with the rank of captain of Dragoons, to
rejoin Montcalm in Canada. Becoming aide-de-camp to this general, he distinguished himself
on various occasions, and obtained the confidence of his chief, who sent him to France to ask
for reinforcements.

That unhappy country was just then overwhelmed with reverses in Europe, and had need of all
her resources. Therefore, when young Bougainville entered upon the object of his mission to
M. de Choiseul, the minister answered brusquely,--

"When the house is on fire, one does not worry oneself about the stables!"

"At least," replied Bougainville, "no one can say that you speak like a horse!"

This sally was too witty and too stinging to conciliate the minister. Ultimately Madame de
Pompadour, who appreciated witty people, introduced Bougainville to the king, and although
he did not succeed in obtaining much for his general, he gained a colonelcy, and the order
of St. Louis for himself, although he had only seen seven years' service. Returning to Canada
he was anxious to justify Louis XIV.'s confidence, and distinguished himself in various matters.
After the loss of the colony he served in Germany under M. de Choiseul-Stainville.

His military career was cut short by the peace of 1763. His active spirit and love of movement
rebelled against a garrison life. He conceived the strange idea of colonizing the Falkland
Islands in the extreme south of South America, and of conveying there free of expense the emigrants
from Canada who had settled in France to escape the tyrannous yoke of England. Carried away
by this idea, he addressed himself to certain privateers at St. Malo, who, from the commencement
of the century, had been in the habit of visiting the group, and who had named them Malouine
Islands.

Having gained their confidence, Bougainville brought the advantages (however problematical)
of this colony to the minister's notice, maintaining that the fortunate situation of the island,
would secure a good resting-place for ships going to the Southern Seas. Having high interest,
he obtained the authority he desired, and received his nomination as ship-captain.

It was the year 1763. There is little reason to suppose, that marine officers, who had passed
all the grades of the service, looked with gratification upon an appointment which no past
event justified. But that mattered little to the Minister of Marine, M. de Choiseul-Stainville.
Bougainville had served under him, and was far too grand a personage to trouble himself about
the grumbling of the ship's officers.

Bougainville having brought his uncle and cousin, MM. de Nerville and d'Arboulin, to look favourably
upon his venture, caused the Eagle of twenty guns, and the Sphinx of twelve, to be built at
St. Malo, under the auspices of M. Guzot Duclos. Upon these he embarked several Canadian families.

Leaving St. Malo on the 15th of September, 1763, he rested at St. Catherine's Island, on the
coast of Brazil, and at Montevideo, where he took horses and cattle, and landed at the Malouines
in a large bay, which appeared to him wholly suited to his purpose, but he was not long in
discovering that what had been taken by preceding navigators for woods of moderate height,
were only reeds. Not a tree, not a shrub grew in the islands. Fortunately an excellent turf
did for fuel in their stead, whilst fish and game offered good resources.

The colony consisted at first of only twenty-nine persons, for whom huts were built and also
a provision warehouse. At the same time a fort, capable of holding fourteen guns, was planned
and commenced. M. de Nerville agreed to remain at the head of the establishment, whilst Bougainville
returned to France on the 5th of April. There he recruited some more colonists, and took a
considerable cargo of provisions of every kind, which he disembarked on the 5th of January,
1765. He then went to the Strait of Magellan in search of a cargo of wood, and having, as we
have already narrated, met Commodore Byron's squadron, followed it to Port Famine.

There he took in more than ten thousand saplings of different growths, which he intended to
transport to the Malouines. When he left the group on the 27th of April following, the colony
already numbered eighty persons, comprising a staff paid by the king. Towards the end of 1765,
the same two vessels were sent back with provisions and new colonists.

The colony was beginning to make a show, when the English settled themselves in Port Egmont,
reconnoitred by Byron. At the same time Captain Macbride attempted to obtain possession of
the colony, on the ground that the land belonged to the English king, although Byron had not
recognized the Malouines in 1765, and the French had then been settled there two years.

In the meantime Spain laid claim to it in her turn, as a dependency of Southern America. England
and France were equally adverse to a breach of the peace, for the sake of this archipelago,
which was of so little commercial value, and Bougainville was forced to relinquish his undertaking
on condition that the Spanish Government indemnified him for his expenses. In addition, he
was ordered by the French Government to facilitate the restoration of the Malouines to the
Spanish Commissioners.

This foolish attempt at colonization was the origin and groundwork of Bougainville's good fortune,
for in order to make use of the last equipment, the minister ordered Bougainville to return
by the South Sea, and to make discoveries.

In the early days of November, 1766, Bougainville repaired to Nantes, where his second in command,
M. Duclos-Guiyot, captain of the fire-ship, and an able and veteran sailor, who grew grey in
the inferior rank because he was not noble, superintended the equipment of the frigate La Boudeuse,
of twenty-six guns.

Bougainville left the roadstead of Minden at the mouth of the Loire, on the 15th of November,
for the La Plata river, where he hoped to find two Spanish vessels, the Esmeralda and the Liebre.
But scarcely had the Boudeuse gained the open sea when a furious tempest arose. The frigate,
the rigging of which was new, sustained such serious damages that it was necessary to put for
repairs into Brest, which she entered on the 21st November. This experience sufficed to convince
the captain that the Boudeuse was but little fitted for the voyage he had before him. He therefore
had the masts shortened, and changed his artillery for less heavy pieces, but in spite of these
modifications, the Boudeuse was not fit for the heavy seas and storms of Cape Horn. However,
the rendezvous with the Spaniards was arranged, and Bougainville was obliged to put to sea.
The staff of the frigate consisted of eleven officers and three volunteers, among whom was
the Prince of Nassau-Sieghen. The crew comprised 203 sailors, boys, and servants.

As far as La Plata the sea was calm enough to allow of Bougainville's making many observations
on the currents, a frequent source of the errors made by navigators in their reckonings.

On the 31st of January, La Boudeuse anchored in Montevideo Bay, where the two Spanish frigates
had been awaiting her for a month, under the command of Don Philippe Pelicis Puente.

The long stay Bougainville made in this part, and also at Buenos Ayres, enabled him to collect
facts about the city, and the manners of the inhabitants, which are too curious to be passed
over in silence. Buenos Ayres appeared to them too large for its population, which amounted
only to 20,000, the reason being that the houses are of only one story, and have large courts
or gardens. Not only has this town no fort, but it has not even a jetty. Thus ships are forced
to discharge their cargoes on to lighters, which convey them to the little river, where carts
come to take the bales and convey them to the town.

The number of religious communities, both male and female, in Buenos Ayres, adds to the originality
of its character.

Bougainville says, "The year is full of Saint days, which are celebrated by processions and
fireworks. Religious ceremonies supply the place of theatres. The Jesuits incite the women
to greater austerity in their piety than any other order. Attached to their convent they have
an institution intitled, Casa de los egericios de las mugeres, that is, 'house for the devotion
of women.' Women and girls, without the permission of husbands or fathers, enter the retreat
for twelve days, to increase their sanctity."

They were lodged and boarded at the expense of the company. No man ever set foot in this sanctuary
unless in the cowl of St. Ignatius. Servants even of the female sex were not allowed to accompany
their mistresses. The devotional services consisted of meditation, prayer, catechizings, confession,
and flagellation. "We were shown the stains on the walls of the chapel, made by the blood which
flowed under the hands of these Magdalens as they did penance."

The environs of the town were well cultivated and brightened by a large number of country houses
named "quentas," but scarcely two or at most three leagues from Buenos Ayres were immense plains,
with scarcely a single undulation, given up to bulls and horses, which are almost the only
inhabitants. Bougainville says,--

"These animals were so abundant, that travellers, when they needed food, would kill a bull,
consume what they could eat, and leave the rest to be devoured by wild dogs and tigers."

The Spaniards had not yet succeeded in subduing the Indian tribes on the two shores of the
La Plata River. They were called "Indios bravos."

"They are of medium height, very ugly, and almost all infected with the itch. Their complexions
are very dark, and the grease with which they perpetually rub themselves, makes them even blacker.
Their sole garment is the skin of the roe-buck, which reaches to the heels, and in which they
wrap themselves.

"These Indians pass their lives on horseback, at least near the Spanish settlement. They occasionally
come there with their wives to buy eau de cologne, and they never cease drinking until drunkenness
literally deprives them of the power to move. Sometimes they assemble in droves of two or three
hundred to carry off the cattle from the Spanish lands, or to attack the caravans of travellers.

"They pillaged, massacred, and carried off slaves. It was an evil without remedy. How was it
possible to subdue a wandering nation in a vast and uncultivated country where it was difficult
even to meet with them?

"Commerce was far from flourishing, as no European merchandise was allowed to pass by land
to Peru or Chili."

Nevertheless Bougainville saw a vessel leaving Buenos Ayres carrying a million piastres, "And
if," adds he, "all the inhabitants of this country had the traffic of their hides in Europe,
that of itself would be enough to enrich them."

The anchorage of Montevideo was safe, although several times they were visited by "pamperos,"
a scourge of the South-West, accompanied by violent tempests. The town offered nothing of interest.
The environs are so uncultivated that it is necessary to import flour, biscuits, and everything
necessary for the boats. But fruits, such as figs, peaches, apples, lemons, &c., are plentiful,
as well as the same quantity of butcher's meat as in the rest of the country.

These documents, which are a hundred years old, are curious when compared with those furnished
by contemporary navigators, especially by M. Emile Daireaux, in his work on La Plata. In many
respects this picture is still correct, but there are other details (such for instance as regards
instruction, of which Bougainville could not speak, as it did not exist) in which it has made
immense progress. When the victuals, the provision of water, and the cattle were embarked,
the three vessels set sail on the 28th of February, 1767, for the Malouines. The voyage was
not fortunate. Variable winds, heavy weather, and a running sea, caused much damage to the
Boudeuse. On the 23rd of March she cast anchor in French Bay, where she was joined on the morrow
by the two Spanish vessels, which had been much tried by the tempest.

Upon the 1st of April the restitution of the colony to the Spaniards was solemnized. Very few
French profited by their king's permission to remain in the Malouines; almost all preferred
to embark upon the Spanish frigates upon their leaving Montevideo. As for Bougainville, he
was forced to await the provisions, which the fly-boat Etoile was to bring him, and which was
to accompany him upon his voyage round the world.

However, the months of March, April, and May passed, and no Etoile appeared. It was impossible
to cross the Pacific with only six months' provisions, which was all the Boudeuse carried.

Bougainville decided at last, on the 2nd of June, to reach Rio Janeiro, which he had mentioned
to M. de la Gerandais, the commander of the Etoile as a rendezvous, should unforeseen circumstances
prevent his reaching the Malouines.

The crossing was made with such favourable weather, that only eighteen days were needed to
reach the Portuguese Colony. The Etoile, which had been awaiting her for four days, had left
France later than was expected. She had been forced to seek shelter from the tempest at Montevideo,
from whence, following her instructions she gained Rio.

Well received by the Count of Acunha, Viceroy of Brazil, the French had opportunities of seeing
the comedies of Metastasio given at the opera by a Mulatto troupe, and of hearing the works
of the great Italian masters executed by a bad orchestra, conducted by a deformed abbé in ecclesiastical
dress.

But the cordial relations with the viceroy were not lasting. Bougainville, who with the viceroy's
permission had made some purchase, found the delivery of it refused for no reason. He was forbidden
to take wood he needed from the royal timber-yard, although he had concluded a contract for
it, and lastly, he was prevented from lodging with his staff, during the repairs of the Boudeuse,
in a house near the town, placed at his disposal by a friend. To avoid altercation, Bougainville
hurried the preparations for departure.

Before leaving the capital of Brazil, the French commander entered into various details of
the beauty of the port, and the picturesque nature of its surroundings, and finished by a very
curious digression upon the prodigious riches of the country, of which the port was the emporium.

"The mines called 'general,'" he says, "are the nearest to the town, although they are seventy-five
leagues away from it. They yield the king a yearly revenue by his right to a fifth share of
at least a hundred and twelve arobas of gold. In 1762, they brought him in a hundred and nineteen.
Under the captaincy of the 'general' mines, those of the 'Rio des Morts,' Sabara, and Sero
Frio were included--the last named, in addition to all the gold it produces, yields all the
diamonds which come from the Brazils. No precious stones, except diamonds, are contraband.
They belonged to the speculators, who were obliged to keep an exact account of the diamonds
they find and to restore them to the possession of an intendant named by the king for this
purpose. He immediately places them in a casket bound with iron, and fastened with three locks.
He retains one key, the king has another, and the 'Provedor de hacienda reale' the third. This
casket is enclosed in a second, stamped with the seals of the three persons named, and containing
the three keys of the smaller one."

But in spite of all these precautions, and the severe punishment visited upon diamond robberies,
an enormous contraband trade was carried on. It was, however, not the only source of revenue;
and Bougainville calculated, that deducting the maintenance of troops, the pay of the civil
officers, and all the expenses of the administration, the King of Portugal drew no less than
ten million francs from the Brazils.

From Rio to Montevideo no incident occurred, but upon the Plata, during a storm, the Etoile
was run down by a Spanish vessel, which broke her bowsprit, her beak head, and much of her
rigging. The damages and the shock increased the leak of the ship, and forced her to return
to Encenada de Baragan, where repairs were more easily managed than at Montevideo. It was impossible
therefore to leave the river until the 14th of November.

Thirteen days later, both ships came in sight of Virgin Cape at the entrance to the Strait
of Magellan, which they hastened to enter.

Possession Bay, the first they met with, is a large space, open to all winds and offering very
bad anchorage. From Virgin Cape to Orange Cape is about fifteen leagues, and the strait is
throughout seven or eight leagues wide. The first narrow entrance was easily passed, and anchor
cast in Boucault Bay, where half a score of officers and men landed.

They soon made acquaintance with the Patagonians, and exchanged a few trifles, precious to
the natives, for swansdown and gunaco skins.

The inhabitants were tall, but none of them reached six feet.

"What struck me as gigantic in their proportions," says Bougainville, "was their enormous breadth
of shoulder, the size of their heads, and the thickness of their limbs. They are robust and
well-nourished, their muscles are sinewy, their flesh firm, and in fact they are men who, having
lived in the open air and drawn their nourishment from juicy aliments, have reached their highest
point of development."

The distance from the first to the second opening may have been six or seven leagues, and was
passed without accident. This opening is only one and a half leagues in width, and four in
length. In this part of the strait the ships easily reconnoitred St. Bartholomew and St. Elizabeth
Islands.

At the latter the French landed. They found neither wood nor water. It was an absolutely desert
land.

Leaving this place, the American side of the strait is amply furnished with wood. But although
the first advances had been fortunate, Bougainville was to find plenty to try his patience.

The distinctive character of the climate lies in the rapid atmospheric changes, which succeeded
each other so quickly that it is quite impossible to forecast their sudden and dangerous variations.
Hence the damages which it is impossible to foresee, which retard the passage of the ships,
even if they do not force them to seek shelter for repairs.

Guyot-Duclos Bay provides an excellent anchorage, with six or eight fathoms of water and sound
bottom. Bougainville remained there long enough to fill several casks, and endeavoured to procure
fresh meat, but he only met with a few wild animals. St. Anne's point was reached. At that
place Sarmiento had founded the colony of Philippeville in 1581.

In a preceding volume we have narrated the fearful catastrophe which procured the name of Port
Famine for this spot.

The French reconnoitred several bays, capes, and harbours at which they touched. They were
Bougainville Bay, where the Etoile was repainted, Port Beau Bassin, Cormadière Bay, off the
coast of Tierra del Fuego, and Cape Forward, which forms the most southerly point of the strait
and of Patagonia, Cascade Bay in Tierra del Fuego, the safety, easy anchorage, and facilities
for procuring water and wood of which, render it a most desirable haven for navigators.

The various ports which Bougainville discovered are particularly valuable, as they offer favourable
points for doubling Cape Forward, one of the most difficult routes for sailors on account of
the violent and contrary winds which prevail there.

The year 1768 opened for the adventurers in Fortescue Bay, below which is Port Galant, the
plan of which had been taken with great exactitude by M. de Gennes. Detestable weather, of
which the worst winter in Paris can give no idea, detained the French expedition for three
weeks. It was visited by a band of Pecheians, the inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego, who boarded
the ship.

"We made them sing," says the narrative, "dance, listen to instruments, and above all eat.
Everything was pleasant to them, bread, salt meat, tallow, they devoured everything that was
given them. They showed no surprise either at the sight of the vessels or that of the various
objects which were shown to them, no doubt because to feel surprise at works of art, one must
have elementary ideas. These men, akin to brutes, treated chef-d'oeuvres of human industry
as they treated the laws and phenomena of nature.

"These savages are small, ugly, thin, and smell abominably. They are all but naked, having
only clothing of seal-skin too small to cover them.

"These women are hideous, and the men appear to care little for them. They live all together,
men and women and children, in one hut, in the centre of which a fire is lighted.

"Their food is chiefly shell-fish. Still they have dogs and snares set with whalebone. On the
whole they appear to be a good sort of people, but so weak that one overlooks their faults.

"Of all the savages I have met with, the Pecherais are the most destitute."

A painful event occurred whilst the crew were in this port. A child of about twelve years of
age came on board, and glass beads and bits of glass were given to it, with no suspicion of
the use to which they would be put. It would appear that these savages are in the habit of
stuffing pieces of talc down their throats as talismans. This boy no doubt meant to do the
same with the glass, for when they landed they found him vomiting violently and spitting blood.
His throat and gums were lacerated and bleeding. In spite of the enchantments and violent rubbings
of a juggler, or perhaps on account of this not too effective treatment, the poor child suffered
dreadfully, and died shortly afterwards. This was the signal for a precipitate flight of the
Pecherais. They no doubt entertained a fear that the French had cast a spell upon them, and
that they would all die in a similar manner.

On the 16th of January, in endeavouring to reach Rupert Isle, the Boudeuse was driven by the
currents half a cable's length from the shore. The anchor which was then heaved, gave way,
and without the least land-breeze the vessel stranded.

It was necessary to regain Galant Harbour. It was just time, for next day a fearful storm was
raging.

"After experiencing constantly adverse and variable winds for twenty-six days in Port Galant,
thirty-six hours favourable breeze, for which we had not dared to hope, sufficed to take us
into the Pacific Ocean. This I believe to be a solitary instance of a voyage without anchorage
from Port Galant to the narrow channel. I estimate the entire length of this strait, from Virgin
Cape to Cape Peliers, at about 114 leagues.

"We took fifty-two days to accomplish it. In spite of the difficulties we met with in the passage
of the Straits of Magellan" (and in this Bougainville entirely agrees with Byron), "I should
advise this route, in preference to that by Cape Horn from September to the end of March. During
the remaining months of the year I should prefer the open sea.

"Contrary winds and heavy seas are not dangerous, whilst it is not wise to grope one's way
between two coasts. One is sure to be detained for some time in the strait, but this delay
is not time wholly lost. One meets with water in abundance, wood and shell-fish, and occasionally
very good fish. And I am decidedly of opinion that a crew reaching the Pacific by doubling
Cape Horn suffers more from the ravages of scurvy than that which proceeds by the Straits of
Magellan."

Bougainville's opinion has met with many opposers up to the present time, and the route which
he lauds so highly has been almost abandoned by navigators. One strong reason for which is
that steam has completely transformed maritime experience, and entirely changed nautical science.

Scarcely had he entered the Southern Sea, when Bougainville, to his intense surprise, found
the winds southerly. He was therefore obliged to relinquish his intention of reaching Juan
Fernandez.

Bougainville had agreed with M. de la Giraudais, captain of the Etoile, that if a larger stretch
of sea was discovered, the two vessels should separate, but not lose sight of each other, and
that every evening the bugle should recall them within half a league of each other, so that,
in the event of the Boudeuse encountering danger, the Etoile might avoid it.

Bougainville for some time sought Easter Island in vain. At last he fell in during the month
of March with the lands and islands erroneously marked upon M. Bellin's chart as Quiros Islands.
On the 22nd of the same month he met with four islets, to which he gave the name of Quatre
Facardins, which belonged to the Dangerous group, a set of madreporic islets, low and damp,
which all navigators who have visited the Pacific Ocean by way of the Straits of Magellan appear
to have noticed.

A little further discovery was made, of a fertile island inhabited by entirely naked savages,
who were armed with long spears, which they brandished with menacing gestures, and thus it
obtained the name of Lancers Island.

We need not refer to what we have already repeatedly said of the nature of these islands, the
difficulty of access to them, their wild and inhospitable inhabitants. Cook calls this very
Lancers Island, Thrum Cape, and the island of La Harpe, which Bougainville found on the 24th,
is identical with Cook's Bow Island.

The captain, knowing that Roggewein had nearly perished in these latitudes, and thinking the
interest of their exploration not worth the risk to be run, proceeded southward and soon lost
sight of this immense archipelago, which extends in length 500 leagues, and contains at least
sixty islands or groups.

Upon the 2nd of April Bougainville perceived a high and steep mountain, to which he gave the
name of La Boudeuse. It was Maïtea Island, already called La Dezana by Quiros. On the 4th at
sunrise the vessel reached Tahiti, a long island consisting of two peninsulas, united by a
tongue of land no more than a mile in width.

More than 100 pirogues hastened to surround the two vessels. They were laden with cocoa-nuts
and many delicious fruits which were readily exchanged for all sorts of trifles.

When night fell, the shore was illuminated by a thousand fires, to which the crew responded
by throwing rockets.

"The appearance of this shore," says Bougainville, "raised like an amphitheatre, offered a
most attractive picture. Although the mountains are high, the land nowhere shows its nakedness,
being covered with wood. We could scarcely credit our sight, when we perceived a peak, covered
with trees, which rose above the level of the mountains in the southern portion of the island.
It appeared only thirty fathoms in diameter, and decreased in size at its summit. At a distance
it might have been taken for an immense pyramid, adorned with foliage by a clever decorator.
The least elevated portions of the country are intersected by fields and groves. And the entire
length of the coast, upon the shore below the higher level, is a stretch of low land, unbroken
and covered by plantations. There, amid the bananas, cocoa-nut and other fruit-trees we saw
the huts of the natives."

The whole of the morrow was spent in barter. The natives, in addition to fruits, offered fowls,
pigeons, fishing instruments, working implements, stuffs, and shells, for which they asked
nails and earrings.

Upon the morning of the 6th, after three days devoted to tacking about and reconnoitring the
coast in search of a roadstead, Bougainville decided to cast anchor in the bay he had seen
the first day of his arrival.

"The number of pirogues round our vessels," he says, "was so great, that we had immense trouble
in making way through the crowd and noise. All approached crying, 'Tayo,' friend, and offering
a thousand marks of friendship. The pirogues were full of women, who might vie with most Europeans
in pleasant features, and who certainly excelled them in beauty of form."

Bougainville's cook managed to escape, in spite of all prohibitions, and gained the shore.
But he had no sooner landed, than he was surrounded by a vast crowd, who entirely undressed
him to investigate his body. Not knowing what they were going to do with him, he thought himself
lost, when the natives restored his clothes, and conducted him to the vessel more dead than
alive. Bougainville wished to reprimand him, but the poor fellow assured him, that however
he might threaten him, he could never equal the terrors of his visit on shore.

As soon as the ship could heave to, Bougainville landed with some of his officers to reconnoitre
the watering-place. An enormous crowd immediately surrounded him, and examined him with great
curiosity, all the time crying "Tayo! Tayo!" One of the natives received them in his house,
and served them with fruits, grilled fish, and water. As they regained the shore, a native
of fine appearance, lying under a tree, offered them a share of the shade.

"We accepted it," says Bougainville, "and the man at once bent towards us, and in a gentle
way, sung, to the sound of a flute which another Indian blew with his nose, a song which was
no doubt anacreontic. It was a charming scene, worthy of the pencil of Boucher. Four natives
came with great confidence to sup and sleep on board. We had the flute, bassoon, and violin
played for them, and treated them to fireworks composed of rockets and serpents. This display
excited both surprise and fear."

Before giving further extracts from Bougainville's narrative, it appears apropos to warn the
reader not to accept these descriptions au pied de la lettre. The fertile imagination of the
narrator embellished everything. Not content with the ravishing scenes under his eyes, the
picturesque reality is not enough for him, and he adds new delights to the picture, which only
overload it. He does this almost unconsciously. None the less, his descriptions should be received
with great caution. We find a strange example of this tendency of the age, in the narrative
of Cook's second voyage. Mr. Hodges, the painter who was attached to the expedition, wishing
to reproduce the disembarkation of the English on the island of Middleburgh, paints personages
who have not the smallest resemblance to the dwellers in the ocean regions, and whose togas
give them the appearance of being contemporaries of Cæsar or of Augustus. Yet he had the originals
before his eyes, and nothing could have been easier to him than to depict the scene as it really
was.

We know better how to respect truth in these days. No additions, no embellishments are found
in the narratives of our navigators. And if sometimes they prove but dry accounts, which give
little pleasure to the general public, they are sure to contain the elements of earnest study
for the scientific man, and the basis of works for the advancement of science.

With this preamble, let us follow the narrator.

Bougainville established his sick and his water-casks upon the shore of a small river which
ran at the bottom of the bay, under a guard for their security. These precautions were not
taken without arousing the susceptibility and distrust of the natives. They had no objection
to seeing the strangers walk about their island all day, but they expected them to return on
board at night. Bougainville persisted, and at last he was obliged to fix the length of his stay.

At this juncture, harmony was restored. A large shed was prepared for the sufferers from scurvy,
in number thirty-four, and for their guard, which consisted of thirty men. The shed was closed
on all sides and only one opening left, to which the natives crowded with the wares they wished
to exchange. The only trouble they had was in keeping an eye upon everything that was brought
on shore, for "there are no more adroit sharpers in Europe than these folks." Following a laudable
custom, now becoming general, Bougainville presented the chief of this settlement with a pair
of turkeys, and ducks and drakes, and then cleared a piece of land, where he sowed corn, wheat,
rice, maize, onions, &c.

On the 10th, a native was killed by a gunshot. All Bougainville's inquiries failed to find
out the perpetrator of this abominable assassination. Apparently the natives thought the victim
in the wrong, for they continued to frequent the market with their former confidence.

The captain, however, knew that the harbour was not well-sheltered, and the bottom was entirely
coral.

On the 12th, during a storm of wind, the Boudeuse, whose anchor cable had been cut by the coral,
caused great injuries to the Etoile, upon which she was driven. Whilst all on board were busily
occupied in repairing these injuries, and a boat had been despatched in search of a second
passage, by means of which the ships might have left with any wind, Bougainville learned that
three natives had been killed or wounded in their cabins by bayonets, and that owing to the
general alarm all the inhabitants had hurried to the interior.

In spite of the risk run by his ships, the captain at once landed, and put the supposed perpetrators
of this outrage (which might have brought the entire population upon the French) into irons.
Thanks to these rigorous measures the natives calmed down, and the night passed without incident.

Still, Bougainville's worst apprehensions were not upon this score. He returned on board as
soon as possible. But for a breeze which opportunely sprang up, both vessels would have been
driven on shore by a strong squall, accompanied by a swell and thunder. The anchor cables broke,
and the vessels had a narrow escape of striking on the breakers, where they must speedily have
been demolished. Fortunately the Etoile was able to gain the open, and was soon followed by
the Boudeuse, leaving in this foreign roadstead six anchors, which might have been of great
use during the rest of the voyage.

So soon as they perceived the approaching departure of the French, the natives came in crowds
with provisions of every variety. One of them, named Aotourou, asked, and finally obtained,
permission to accompany Bougainville on his voyage. After his arrival in Europe, Aotourou lived
eleven months in Paris, where he was received with cordiality and welcome in the highest society.
In 1770, when he returned to his native land, the government took an opportunity of conveying
him to the Isle of France. He was to return to Tahiti as soon as the weather permitted, but
he died in the island without having been able to convey to his land the useful implements,
grains, and cattle, which had been given to him by the French Government.

Tahiti, which was named Nouvelle Cythère by Bougainville, on account of the beauty of the women,
is the largest of the Society's group. Although it was visited, as we have already narrated,
by Wallis, we will give a little information which we owe to Bougainville.

The principal productions were cocoas, bananas, bread fruits, yams, sugar cane, &c. M. de Commerson,
naturalist, who was on board the Etoile, recognized the Indian flora. The only quadrupeds were
pigs, dogs, and rats, who multiplied rapidly.

Bougainville says, "The climate is so healthy that in spite of our fatigues, although our people
were perpetually in the water, and under a burning sun, sleeping on the naked soil under the
stars, no one was ill. The sufferers from scurvy whom we disembarked, and who had not enjoyed
a single night's sleep, regained their strength, and were so soon restored, that some of them
were completely cured on board."

In addition to this, the health and strength of the natives, who live in cabins open to every
wind, and who scarcely cover the ground, which serves them as a bed, with a few leaves, the
happy old age to which they easily attain, the sharpness of all their senses, and the singular
beauty of their teeth, which they preserve to the greatest age, all testify to the salubrity
of the climate, and the efficiency of the rules followed by the inhabitants.

In character the people seem gentle and good. It would not appear that they have civil wars
among themselves, although the country is divided into little portions under independent chiefs.
They are constantly at war with the inhabitants of the neighbouring islands. Not satisfied
with massacring the men and male children taken in arms, they skin their chins with the beard,
and keep this hideous trophy. Bougainville could only obtain very vague information of their
ceremonies and religion. But he could at least assert the reverence they pay their dead. They
preserve the corpses for a long time in the open air, on a sort of scaffold sheltered by a
shed. In spite of the odour of decomposition, the women go every day to weep near the monuments,
and bedew the sad relics of their beloved ones with their tears and with cocoa-nut oil.

The soil is so productive, and requires so little cultivation, that men and women live in a
state of almost entire idleness. Therefore it is not astonishing that the sole care of the
latter is to be pleasing. Dancing, singing, long conversations, teeming with gaiety, have developed
a mobility of expression among the Tahitans, surprising even to the French, a people who themselves
have not the reputation of being serious, possibly because they are more lively than those
who reproach them with levity.

It is impossible to fix a native's attention. A trifle strikes them, but nothing occupies them.
In spite of their want of reflection they were clever and industrious. Their pirogues were
constructed after a fashion equally ingenious and solid. Their fish-hooks and all their fishing
implements were of delicate workmanship. Their nets were like those of Europeans. Their stuffs
manufactured of the bark of a tree, were generally woven and dyed of various colours.

In fact Bougainville's impression of the Tahitan people was that they were "lazzaroni."

At eight o'clock on the 16th of April, Bougainville was about ten leagues north of Tahiti,
when he perceived land to windward. Although it had the appearance of three islands, it was
in reality but one. It was named Oumaita after Aotourou. The captain, not thinking it wise
to stop there, steered so as to avoid the Pernicious Islands, of which Roggewein's disaster
had made him afraid. During the remainder of the month of April the weather was fine, with
little wind.

On the 3rd of May, Bougainville bore down towards a new land, which he had just discovered,
and was not long in finding others on the same day. The coasts of the largest one were steep;
in point of fact, it was simply a mountain covered with trees to its summit, with neither valley
nor sea coast. Some fires were seen there, cabins built under the shade of the cocoanut-trees,
and some thirty men running on the shore. In the evening, several pirogues approached the vessels,
and after a little natural hesitation, exchanges commenced. The natives demanded pieces of
red cloth in exchange for cocoa-nuts, yams, and far less beautiful stuffs than those of the
Tahitans; they disdainfully refused iron, nails, and earrings, which had been so appreciated
elsewhere in the Bourbon Archipelago, as Bougainville had named the Tahitan group. The natives
had their breasts and thighs painted dark blue; they wore no beards; their hair was drawn into
tufts on the top of their heads.

Next day, fresh islands belonging to the archipelago were seen. The natives, who appeared very
savage, would not approach the vessels.

"The longitude of these islands," says the narrative, "is pretty nearly similar to that which
Abel Tasman reckoned it when he discovered Amsterdam and Rotterdam Islands, the Pilstaars,
Prince William Island, and the low lands of Fleemskerk. It is also approximate to that assigned
for the Solomon Islands. Besides the pirogues which we have seen rowing in the open sea, and
to the south, indicate other islands in this locality. Thus it appears likely that these lands
form an extended chain in the same parallel. The islands comprising the Navigator Archipelago,
lie below the fourteenth southern parallel, between 170 degrees and 172 degrees west longitude
from Paris."

As fresh victuals diminished, scurvy again began to appear. It was necessary to think of putting
into a port again. On the 22nd and the following days of the same month, Pentecost Island,
Aurora and Leper Islands, which belong to the archipelago of New Hebrides, were reconnoitred.
They had been discovered by Quiros in 1606. The landing appearing easy, the captain determined
to send an expedition on shore, which would bring back cocoa-nuts and other antiscorbutic fruits.
Bougainville joined them during the day. The sailors cut wood, and the natives aided in shipping
it. But in spite of this apparent good feeling, the natives were still distrustful, and carried
their weapons in their hands. Those who possessed none, held large stones, all ready to throw.

As soon as the boats were laden with fruit and wood, Bougainville re-embarked his men. The
natives then approached in great numbers, and discharged a shower of arrows, lances, and javelins,
some even entered the water, the better to aim at the French. Several gunshots, fired into
the air, having no effect, a well-directed general volley soon put the natives to flight.

A few days later, a boat seeking anchorage upon the coast of the Leper Islands, was in danger
of attack. Two arrows aimed at them served as a pretext for the first discharge, which was
speedily followed by a fire so well directed, that Bougainville believed his crew in danger.
The number of victims was very large, the natives uttered piercing cries as they fled to the
woods. It was a regular massacre. The captain, uneasy at the prolonged firing, sent another
boat to the help of the first, when he saw it doubling a point, He therefore signalled for
their return. "I took measures," he said, "that we should never again be dishonoured by such
an abuse of our superior forces."

The easy abuse of their powers by captains is truly sad! The mania for destroying life needlessly,
even without any object, raises one's indignation! To whatever nation explorers belong we find
them guilty of the same acts. The reproach, therefore, belongs not to a particular nation,
but to humanity at large.

Having obtained the commodities he needed, Bougainville regained the sea.

It would appear that the navigator aimed at making many discoveries, for he only reconnoitred
the lands he found very superficially and hastily, and of all the charts which accompany the
narrative, and there are many of them, not one gives an entire archipelago, or settles the
various questions to which a new discovery gives rise. Captain Cook did not proceed in this
way. His explorations, always conducted with care, and with rare perseverance, are for that
very reason far superior in value to those of the French explorer.

The lands which the French now encountered, were no other than St. Esprit, Mallicolo, and St.
Bartholomew, and the islets belonging to the latter. Although he was perfectly aware that these
islands were identical with the Tierra del Espiritu Santo of Quiros, Bougainville could not
refrain from bestowing a new name upon them, and called them the Archipelago des "Grandes Cyclades,"
to which however, the name of New Hebrides has been given in preference. "I readily believed,"
he says, "that it was its extreme southern point which Roggewein saw under the eleventh parallel,
and which he named Tienhoven and Groningue. But when we arrived there everything led us to
believe that we were in the southern land of Espiritu Santo. Every appearance seemed to coincide
with Quiros's narrative, and the discoveries we made every day encouraged us in our search.
It is singular that precisely in the same latitude and longitude as that which Quiros gives
to his St. Philip and St. James' Bays, upon a shore which at first sight appeared like a continent,
we found a passage equal in size to that which he gives to the opening of his bays. Did the
Spanish navigator see badly, or did he wish to hide his discoveries?

"Had geographers merely guessed in making the Tierra del Espiritu Santo identical with New
Guinea? To ascertain the truth, we must follow the same parallel for over 350 leagues. I resolved
upon doing so, although the state and quantity of our provisions warned us to seek a European
settlement as soon as possible. It will be seen that we narrowly escaped being the victims
of our own persistance."

Whilst Bougainville was in these latitudes certain business matters required his presence on
board the Etoile, and he there found out a singular fact, which had already been largely discussed
by his crew. M. de Commerson had a servant named Barré. Indefatigable, intelligent, and already
an experienced botanist, Barré had been seen taking an active part in the herborising excursions,
carrying boxes, provisions, the weapons, and books of plants, with endurance which obtained
from the botanist, the nickname of his beast of burden. For some time past Barré had been supposed
to be a woman. His smooth face, the tone of his voice, his reserve, and certain other signs,
appeared to justify the supposition, when on arriving at Tahiti suspicions were changed into
certainty. M. de Commerson landed to botanize, and according to custom Barré followed him with
the boxes, when he was surrounded by natives, who, exclaiming that it was a woman, were disposed
to verify their opinion. A midshipman, M. Bommand, had the greatest trouble in rescuing her
from the natives, and escorting her back to the ship. When Bougainville visited the Etoile,
he received Barré's confession. In tears, the assistant botanist confessed her sex, and excused
herself for having deceived her master, by presenting herself in man's clothes, at the very
moment of embarkation. Having no family, and having been ruined by a law-suit, this girl had
donned man's clothes to insure respect. She was aware, before she embarked, that she was going
on a voyage round the world, and the prospect, far from frightening her, only confirmed her
in her resolution.

"She will be the first woman who has been round the world," says Bougainville, "and I must
do her the justice to admit that she has conducted herself with the most scrupulous discretion.
She is neither ugly nor pretty, and at most is only twenty-six or twenty-seven years old. It
must be admitted that had the two vessels suffered shipwreck upon a desert island, it would
have been a singular experience for Barré."

The expedition lost sight of land on the 29th of May. The route was directed westward. On the
4th of June, a very dangerous rock, so slightly above water that at two leagues' distant it
was not visible from the look-out, was discovered in latitude 15 degrees 50 minutes, and 148
degrees 10 minutes longitude. The constant recurrence of breakers, trunks of trees in large
quantities, fruits and sea wrack, and the smoothness of the sea, all indicated the neighbourhood
of extensive land to the south-east. It was New Holland. Bougainville determined to leave these
dangerous latitudes, where he was likely to meet with nothing but barren lands, and a sea strewn
with rocks and full of shallows. There were other urgent reasons for changing the route, provisions
were getting low, the salt meat was so tainted, that the rats caught on board were eaten in
preference. Bread enough for two months, and vegetables for forty days alone remained. All
clamoured for a return to the north.

Unfortunately the south winds had ceased, and when they re-commenced, they brought the expedition
within an inch of destruction.

On the 10th of June land was seen to the north. It was the bottom of the Gulf of the Louisiade,
which had received the name of Cul-de-sac de l'Orangerie. The country was magnificent. On the
sea shore, a low land covered with trees and shrubs, the balmy odours of which reached the
ships, rose like an amphitheatre towards the mountains, whose summits were lost in the skies.
However, it was impossible to visit this rich and fertile country, but, on the other hand,
desirable to find to the east a passage to the south of New Guinea, which, by way of the Gulf
of Carpentaria, would have led direct to the Moluccas. Did such a passage exist? Nothing was
more problematic, for the notion was that land had been seen extending far to the westward.
It was needful to hurry as fast as possible from the gulf where the ships had so incautiously
involved themselves.

But there is a wide difference between a wish and its fulfilment! The two vessels strove in
vain up to the 21st of June to transport themselves to the west, from this coast, which was
so full of rocks and breakers, and upon which the wind and currents bade fair to swallow them
up. The fog and rain continued so closely with them, that the frigate could only proceed in
company with the Etoile by a constant firing of guns. When the wind changed, they profited
by it, and immediately proceeded to the open sea--but it soon veered again, and continued east-south-east,
and thus they speedily lost the ground they had gained.

During this terrible cruise, the rations of bread and vegetables were obliged to be reduced,
consumption of old leather was threatened with severe punishment, and the last goat on board
was sacrificed.

It is difficult for the reader, tranquilly sitting in his chimney-corner, to imagine the anxiety
of a voyage in these unknown seas,--threatened with the unexpected appearance of rocks and
breakers, with contrary winds, unknown currents, and a fog which concealed all dangers. Cape
Deliverance was only rounded on the 26th. It was now possible to start for the north-north-east.

Two days later, when they had made about sixty leagues northward, some islands were perceived
ahead. Bougainville imagined they were a part of the Louisiade group, but they are more generally
accepted as belonging to the Solomon Archipelago, which Carteret, who saw them the preceding
year, as little imagined that he had reached, as the French navigator.

Several pirogues speedily surrounded the two ships. They were manned by natives, blacker than
Africans, with long curling red hair. Armed with javelins, they uttered shrill cries, and showed
dispositions far from peaceful. It was useless to attempt to reach them. The surge broke violently,
and the coast was so narrow that it scarcely seemed as if there were one at all.

Surrounded on all sides by islands, and in a thick fog, Bougainville steered by instinct in
a passage only four or five leagues in width, and with a sea so rough that the Etoile was forced
to close her hatchways.

Upon the eastern coast a pretty bay was perceived, which promised good anchorage. Boats were
told off to sound it. Whilst they were thus engaged, ten or more pirogues, upon which some
hundred and fifty men armed with bucklers, lances, and bows, were embarked, advanced against
them. The pirogues divided into two parties to surround the French boats. As soon as they were
within sufficient reach, the natives showered a storm of arrows and javelins upon the boats.
The first discharge failed to stop them. A second was necessary to disperse them. Two pirogues,
the crews of which had jumped into the sea, were captured. Of great length and well made, these
boats were decorated in front with a man's head carved, the eyes of which were formed of mother
of pearl, the ears of tortoise-shell, and the lips painted red.

The water in which this combat took place was called the Warrior River, and the island received
the name of Choiseul, in honour of the French Minister of Marine.

On leaving this strait a new land was discovered--Bougainville Island, the southern extremity
of which, called Laverdy Cape, appears to join Bouka Island. The latter, which Carteret had
seen the preceding year, and which he named Winchelsea, appeared densely populated--if the
cabins which abounded were any criterion.

The inhabitants, whom Bougainville classifies as Negroes, probably to distinguish them from
the Polynesians and Malays, are Papuans, of the same race as the inhabitants of New Guinea.
Their short curly hair was painted red, and the betel-nut, which they perpetually chewed, had
communicated the same colour to their teeth. The coast with its cocoanut and other trees, promised
plentiful refreshments, but contrary winds and currents quickly drew the ships away.

On the 6th of July Bougainville cast anchor on the southern coast of New Ireland, which had
been discovered by Schouten, in Port Praslin, at the very point where Carteret had stopped.

"We sent our casks on shore," says the narrative, "and began to collect water and wood, and
commence washing, all of which was most necessary. The disembarkation was splendid--upon fine
sand, with neither rock nor wave.

"Four streams flowed into the harbour in a space measuring four hundred paces. We selected
three, according to custom; one to supply water for La Boudeuse, one for the Etoile, and one
for washing purposes. Wood was plentiful on the shore, and there were various kinds of it,
all good for burning, and several first-rate for carpentery, joinery, and even toy-making.

"The two vessels were in hearing of each other and close to the shore. Again this part and
its neighbourhood to a great distance were uninhabited--a fact which secured us precious peace
and liberty. We could not have hoped for a surer anchorage, or a more convenient spot for water,
wood, or the various repairs needed by the vessels. We were able to send the sufferers from
scurvy to range the woods. But with all these advantages, the port had a few inconveniences.
In spite of active search, neither cocoanut-trees nor bananas were to be found, nor any of
the resources which either by consent or by force, could have been gained in an inhabited country.
Fish was not abundant, and we could expect only safety and strictly necessary things. There
was every fear that the sick would not re-establish their health. We had indeed no serious
cases, but several were infected, and no improvement took place, and their malady could not
have increased more rapidly."

They had been only a few days in port, when a sailor found a leaden plate upon which was an
inscription in English. It was easy to guess that they had found the very spot where Carteret
had made a stay the preceding year.

The resources offered by this country to sportsmen were mediocre in the extreme. They did indeed
catch sight of a few boars or wild pigs, but it was impossible to hit them. To make up for
this they shot most beautiful pigeons, the bodies and necks of grey-white, and of golden green
plumage, turtle-doves, parroquets, crested birds, and a species of crow, whose cry was so like
the baying of a dog, as to be mistaken for it. The trees were large and magnificent, amongst
them the betel, the areca, and the pepper-tree. Malignant reptiles swarm in these marshy lands,
and in the ancient forests, serpents, scorpions, and other venomous reptiles abounded. Unfortunately,
they were not only to be found on land. A sailor in search of marteaux, a very rare kind of
bivalve mussel, was stung by a serpent. The fearful suffering and violent convulsions which
followed only subsided at the expiration of five or six hours, and at last, the theriac which
was administered to him after the bite, effected a cure. This accident was a sad damper to
conchological enthusiasm. Upon the 22nd, after a severe storm, the ships were sensible of several
slight earthquakes, the sea rose and fell several times in succession, which greatly alarmed
the sailors who were occupied in fishing.

In spite of the rain and ceaseless storms which continued daily, a detachment started to search
the interior for Bourbon palms, palm-trees, and turtle-doves. They expected to find wonders,
but returned oftenest empty-handed and with the one result of being wet to the skin. A natural
curiosity at some distance from the anchorage, a thousand times more beautiful than the wonders
invented for the ornament of kingly palaces, attracted numberless visitors, who could never
tire of admiring it. It was a waterfall, too beautiful for description! To form any idea of
its beauty, it would be necessary to reproduce by the brush the sparkling gleam of the spray
lit up by the rays of the sun, the vaporous shade of the tropical trees which dipped their
branches into the water, and the fantastic display of light over a magnificent country, not
yet spoiled by the hand of man!

As soon as the weather changed, the ships left Port Praslin, to follow the coast of New Guinea,
until the 3rd of August. The Etoile was attacked by hundreds of pirogues, and forced to return
the stones and arrows that assailed her by a few gunshots, which put the assailants to flight.
On the 4th the islands named Matthias and Stormy by Dampier were sighted. Three days later
Anchorite Island was recognized, so called because a number of pirogues occupied in fishing,
took no notice of the Etoile and Boudeuse, disdaining to enter into relations with the strangers.
After passing a series of islets half under water, upon which the vessels nearly struck, and
which were named the Echiquiers by Bougainville, the coast of New Guinea appeared. Steep and
mountainous, it ran west-north-west. On the 12th a large bay was discovered, but the currents,
which so far had been unfavourable, were equally so in carrying the boats far from it. It was
visible at a distance of twenty leagues from two gigantic mountains, Cyclops and Bougainville.

The Arimoa Islands, the largest of which is only four miles in length, were next seen, but
the bad weather and the currents forced the two vessels to remain in the open sea and relinquish
all exploration. It was necessary, however, to maintain a close watch in order to avoid missing
the outlet into the Indian Ocean. Mispulu and Waigiou, the last at the extreme north of New
Guinea, were passed in succession.

The "Canal des Français," the outlet for ships from this mass of little islands and rocks,
was passed without mishap. From thence Bougainville penetrated to the Molucca Archipelago,
where he reckoned upon finding the fresh provisions requisite for the forty-five sufferers
from scurvy on board.

In absolute ignorance of the events which had occurred in Europe since he left it, Bougainville
would not run the risk of visiting a colony in which he was not the strongest power. The small
Dutch establishment, Boeton or Bourou Island, suited him perfectly, all the more that provisions
were easily obtained there. The crew received orders to enter the Gulf of Cajeti with the greatest
delight. No one on board had escaped scurvy, and half the crew, Bougainville says, were quite
unfit for duty.

"The victuals remaining to us were so tainted and ill-smelling, that the worst moments of our
sad days were those when we were obliged to partake of such disgusting and unwholesome viands.

"The charms of Boeton Island were enhanced by our wretched situation.

"About midnight a delicious odour, emanating from the aromatic plants with which the Molucca
Islands are covered, had been wafted several leagues out to sea, and was hailed by us as a
forerunner of the end of our woes.

"The appearance of the moderately sized town, situated below the gulf, with vessels at anchor,
and cattle grazing in the pastures that surrounded it, caused pleasure in which I participated,
but which I cannot describe."

Scarcely had the Boudeuse and the Etoile cast anchor, than the resident governor sent two soldiers
to inquire of the French captain what reason he could assign for stopping at this place, when
he must be aware that entrance was permitted to the ships of the India Company only. Bougainville
immediately sent an officer to explain that hunger and sickness forced him to enter the first
port which presented itself in his route. Also, that he would leave Boeton as soon as he had
received the aid of which he had urgent need. The resident at once sent him the order of the
Governor of Amboyna, which expressly forbade his receiving any strange ship in his harbour,
and begged Bougainville to make a written declaration of the reason for his putting into port,
in order that he might prove to his superior that he had not infringed his orders except under
paramount necessity.

As soon as Bougainville had signed a certificate to this effect, cordiality was established
with the Dutch. The resident entertained the officers at his own table, and a contract was
concluded for provisions and fresh meat. Bread gave place to rice, the usual food of the Dutch,
and fresh vegetables which are not usually cultivated in the island, were provided for the
crews by the resident, who obtained them from the Company's gardens. It would have been desirable
for the re-establishment of the health of the crew, that the stay at this port could have been
prolonged, but the end of the monsoon warned Bougainville to set out for Batavia.

The captain left Boeton on the 7th of September, convinced that navigation in the Molucca Archipelago
was not so difficult as it suited the Dutch to affirm. As for trusting to French charts, they
were of no use, being more qualified to mislead vessels than to guide them.

Bougainville therefore directed his course through the Straits of Button and Saleyer; a route
which, though commonly used by the Dutch, is but little known to other nations. The narrative
therefore carefully describes, with mention of every cape, the course he took. We will not
dwell upon this part of the voyage, although it is very instructive, and on that account interesting
to seafaring men.

On the 28th of September, ten months and a half after leaving Montevideo, the Etoile and the
Boudeuse arrived at Batavia, one of the finest colonies in the world. After touching at the
Isle of France, the Cape of Good Hope, and Ascension Island, near which he met Carteret, Bougainville
entered St. Malo on the 16th of February, 1769, having lost only seven men, in the two years
and four months which had elapsed since he left Nantes.

The remaining particulars of the career of this fortunate navigator do not concern our purpose,
and may be dismissed briefly.

He took part in the American war, and in 1781 participated in an honourable combat before Port
Royal off Martinique. Made Chief of the fleet in 1780, he, ten years later, received a commission
to re-establish order in the mutinous fleet of M. d'Albert de Rions. Created vice-admiral in
1792, he did not think it right to accept a high rank, which was, to use his own words, "a
title without duties."

Nominated first to the Bureau of Longitudes, and then to the Institute, raised to the rank
of senator, created a count by Napoleon I., Bougainville died full of years and honours, on
the 31st of August, 1811.

Bougainville acquired popularity as the first Frenchman who accomplished a voyage round the
world. Though the merit of discovering and reconnoitring, if not of exploring, many groups
of islands little known and quite neglected before his time, has been ascribed to him, he owes
his reputation rather to the charm and easy animation of his narrative, than to his labours.
If he is better known than many other French naval officers, his competitors, it is not so
much because he accomplished more than they, as because his style of narrating his adventures
charmed his contemporaries.

As for Guyot Duclos, his secondary share in the enterprise, and his plebeian rank, excluded
him from reward. He was afterwards given the cross of St. Louis, but he earned the title by
his rescue of the Belle Poule. Although he was born in 1722, and had been in the navy since
the year 1734, he was still only lieutenant in 1791. A succession of ministers of new views
was needed to obtain the rank of ship-captain for him: a tardy recompense of long and signal
services. Guyot Duclos died at St. Servan on the 10th March, 1794.

In narrating the career of a distinguished man, it is well to neglect none of those details
which may appear of but slight importance. They acquire significance as indications of a vocation
unknown even to its subject, and throw a light upon the character under consideration. For
these reasons we shall dwell a little upon the humble beginning of the career of one of the
most illustrious navigators whom England boasts.

James Cook was born at Marton, in Yorkshire, on the 27th of October, 1728. He was the ninth
child of a farm servant, and a peasant woman named Grace. When scarcely eight years of age
little James assisted his father in the rough toil of the farm of Airy Holme, near Ayton. His
amiability, and love of work, attracted the interest of the farmer, who had him taught to read.

When he was thirteen years of age, he was apprenticed to William Sanderson, a linendraper at
Snaith, a fishing-hamlet of some importance. But young Cook found little pleasure in an employment
which kept him behind a counter, and he spent every leisure moment in chatting with the sailors
who visited the port. Gaining his father's consent, James soon left the linendraper's, to engage
himself as ship-boy, to Messrs. Walker, whose boats carried coal from England to Ireland.

Successively ship-lad, sailor, and master, Cook rapidly learned all the details of his profession.

In the spring of 1755, as the first hostilities between England and France broke out, the boat
upon which Cook served was anchored in the Thames. The navy was recruited in those days by
means of pressgangs. At first Cook hid himself, but afterwards, urged no doubt by a presentiment,
he engaged himself on board the Eagle, a vessel of sixty guns, to the command of which Sir
Hugh Palliser was soon appointed.

Intelligent, active, thoroughly at home in all the details of the service, Cook was noticed
by the officers, and attracted the attention of his captain, who in a short time received a
letter of warm recommendation from the member for Scarborough, sent in accordance with the
pressing solicitations of all the inhabitants of Ayton, for young Cook, who shortly afterwards
received a warrant as boatswain. He embarked upon the Mercury, bound for Canada, upon the 15th
of May, 1759, and joined the fleet of Sir Charles Saunders, who, in conjunction with General
Wolfe, conducted the siege of Quebec.

In that campaign Cook found the first opportunity of distinguishing himself. Ordered off to
sound the St. Lawrence between Orleans Island and the northern shore of the river, he executed
his task with much skill, and drew up a chart of the channel in spite of the difficulties and
dangers of the enterprise. His hydrographical sketch was acknowledged to be so exact and complete
that he received orders to examine the channels of the river below Quebec. This duty he performed
so well that his chart of the St. Lawrence was published by the English Admiralty. After the
capture of Quebec, Cook passed on to the Northumberland, under command of Lord Colville, and
profited by his stay on the shores of Newfoundland to devote himself to astronomy. Important
operations were now entrusted to him. He drew up the plan of Placentia, and took the bearings
of St. Peter and Miquelon.

In 1764 he was made naval engineer for Newfoundland and Labrador, and was employed for three
consecutive years in hydrographical tasks, which obtained for him the notice of the ministry,
and helped to correct innumerable errors in the maps of America.

At the same time he addressed a treatise to the Royal Society of London, upon an eclipse of
the sun, which he had observed in Newfoundland in 1766.

This document appeared in the "Philosophical Transactions." Cook was not long in receiving
a due reward for so much, and such successful labour, and for his patient studies, the more
meritorious, as he had had few opportunities, and was self-taught.

A scientific question of the highest importance, viz., the transit of Venus across the sun's
disc, which had been announced for 1769, was eagerly discussed by all the scientists of the
day. The English Government, confident that this observation could only be effectually made
in the Pacific Sea, resolved to send a scientific expedition thither.

The command was offered to the famous hydrographer A. Dalrymple, equally celebrated for his
astronomical investigations, and his geographical discoveries in the southern seas. But he
was so exacting in his demands, and so persevering in his request for a commission as ship's
captain, which Sir Edward Hawker as obstinately refused, that the Secretary of the Admiralty
proposed another commander for the projected enterprise.

His choice fell upon James Cook, who was cordially recommended by Sir Hugh Palliser, and to
him therefore the command of the Endeavour was given, whilst he was at the same time raised
to the rank of ship's lieutenant.

Cook was now forty years of age. This was his first appointment in the Royal Navy. The mission
entrusted to him called for varied qualifications, rarely to be met with in a sailor. For,
although the observation of the transit of Venus was the principal object of the voyage, it
was by no means the only one. Cook was also to make a voyage of discovery in the Pacific Ocean.
But the humbly born Yorkshire lad was destined to prove himself equal to his task.

Whilst the Endeavour was being equipped, her crew of eighty-four men chosen, her store of eighteen
months' provision embarked, her ten guns and twelve swivel guns, with the needful ammunition,
shipped, Captain Wallis arrived in England. He had accomplished his voyage round the world.
He was consulted as to the best spot for the observation of the transit of Venus, and he selected
an island which he had discovered, and which was named by him after George III. It was later
known by its native name of Tahiti. From this spot therefore Cook was to take observations.

Charles Green, assistant to Dr. Bradley, of Greenwich Observatory, embarked with him. To Green
was entrusted the astronomical department, Doctor Solander, a Swedish doctor of medicine, a
disciple of Linnæus, and professor at the British Museum, undertook the botanical part. Finally,
Sir Joseph Banks joined the expedition, out of simple interest, anxious to employ his energy
and fortune. After leaving Oxford, Sir Joseph Banks had visited the Newfoundland coast and
Labrador, and had there acquired a taste for botany. Two painters accompanied the expedition,
one a landscape and portrait painter, the other a scientific draughtsman. In addition to these
persons, the company comprised a secretary and four servants, two of whom were negroes.

The Endeavour left Plymouth upon the 26th of August, 1768, and put into port at Funchal, in
the island of Madeira, on the 13th of September, to obtain fresh fruit and make discoveries.
The expedition met with a cordial reception.

During their visit to a convent, the staff of the Endeavour were entreated by the poor immured
recluses to let them know when it would thunder, and to find a spring of fresh water for them,
which they sorely needed, in the interior of the convent. With all their learning, Banks, Solander,
and Cook found it impossible to satisfy these demands.

From Madeira to Rio de Janeiro, where the expedition arrived on the 13th of November, no incident
interrupted the voyage, but Cook's reception by the Portuguese was hardly what he expected.
The whole time of his stay in port was spent in disputes with the viceroy, a man of little
knowledge, and quite incapable of understanding the scientific aspect of the expedition. However,
he could not well refuse to supply the English with fresh provisions, of which they had absolutely
none left. As, however, Cook was passing Fort Santa Cruz on leaving the bay, two shots were
fired after him, whereupon he immediately cast anchor, and demanded the meaning of the insult.
The viceroy replied that the commandant of the Fort had orders to allow no vessel to leave
the bay without his having received notice, and although Captain Cook had notified his intention
to the viceroy, it had, by pure neglect, not been communicated to the Commandant of the Fort.
Was this an intentional act of discourtesy on the part of the viceroy? or was it simple heedlessness?

If the viceroy was equally negligent in all the details of his administration, the Portuguese
colony must have been well regulated!

Cook entered the Straits of Lemaire on the 14th of January, 1769. Kippis, in his Life of Captain
Cook, gives the following account:--

"The sea ran so high, that the water was above Cape San Diego, and the vessel was so driven
by the wind that her bowsprit was constantly under water. Next day anchor was cast in a small
harbour, which was recognized as Port Maurice, and soon afterwards they anchored in the Bay
of Good Success. Whilst the Endeavour remained off this spot a strange and untoward adventure
befell Banks, Solander, Dr. Green, and Monkhouse, the surgeon of the vessel, and their attendants.
They were proceeding towards a mountain in search of plants, and as they climbed it they were
surprised by cold, so penetrating and sudden, that they were all in danger of perishing. Dr.
Solander was seized with vertigo, two negro servants died on the spot, finally the gentlemen
were only able to regain the vessel after a lapse of two days. They rejoiced in their deliverance,
with a joy which can only be estimated by those who have escaped similar dangers, whilst Cook
showed a lively pleasure in the cessation of the anxiety their absence had caused him. This
event gave them a proof of the severity of the climate."

It was the middle of summer in this part of the world, and the day, when the cold surprised
them, had begun as warmly as an ordinary May morning in England.

James Cook was enabled to make some curious observations upon the savage inhabitants of those
desolate regions. Destitute of the necessaries of life, without clothes, without efficient
shelter from the almost perpetual severity of this glacial latitude, unarmed, and unlearned
in any industrial art which would enable them to construct the more necessary utensils, they
passed a miserable life, and could only exist with difficulty. In spite of these facts, of
all the articles offered in exchange they invariably chose the least useful. They joyfully
accepted bracelets and necklaces, and rejected hatchets, knives, and fish-hooks. Careless of
what we consider valuables, our superfluities were their necessaries.

Cook had reason to congratulate himself upon the selection of this route. He took thirty days
to double Tierra del Fuego, from the date of his entrance into the Straits of Lemaire to his
arrival, three degrees north of Magellan. No doubt a much longer time would have been needed,
if he had followed the winding course of the Strait of Magellan. His very exact astronomical
observations, in which Green joined him, and the directions he gave for this dangerous navigation,
smoothed the difficulties of his successors, and rectified the charts of L'Hermite, Lemaire,
and Schouten.

Cook noticed no current of any importance from the 21st January, the day upon which he doubled
Cape Horn, to the 1st of March, in a distance of one hundred and sixty leagues of sea. He discovered
a good many islands in the Dangerous Archipelago, which he respectively named, Lagoon, Arch,
Groups, Birds, and Chain Islands. The greater number were inhabited and were covered with vegetation,
which to sailors who for three months had seen only sea and sky, and the frozen rocks of Tierra
del Fuego, appeared luxuriant. Soon they found Martea Island, which Wallis had named Osnaburgh,
and on the next day, 11th of June, the island of Tahiti was reached.

Two days later, the Endeavour cast anchor in Port Matavai, called Port Royal by Wallis, and
where that captain had had a struggle with the natives, over whom, however, he had triumphed
without much difficulty. Cook, aware of the incidents of his predecessor's stay in this port,
wished above all to avoid similar scenes. Moreover, it was essential to the success of his
observations that no interruption or distraction should occur. His first care was to read out
standing orders to his crew, which they were forbidden under heavy penalties to infringe. He
first declared that he intended in every possible way to cultivate friendly relations with
the natives, then he selected those who were to buy the needed provisions, and forbade all
others to attempt any sort of traffic without special permission. Finally, the men who landed
were on no pretext to leave their posts, and if any soldier or workman parted with his arms
or implements, not only would the price be deducted from his wages, but he would be punished
in proportion to the exigency of the case.

In addition to this, to guard the observers from attack, Cook decided on constructing a sort
of fort, in which they might be sheltered within gun range of the Endeavour. He then landed
with Messrs. Banks, Solander, and Green, soon found a favourable spot, and in presence of the
natives immediately traced out the extent of land he intended to occupy. One of them, named
Owhaw, who had had friendly intercourse with Wallis, was particularly profuse in his protestations
of friendship.

As soon as the plan of the fort was fixed, Cook left thirteen men and an officer in charge
of the tents, and accompanied his associates into the interior of the island. But he was speedily
recalled by the sound of firing.

A very painful incident, the consequences of which might have been serious, had occasioned this.

One of the natives had surprised a sentinel near the tents, and had possessed himself of his
gun. A general discharge was immediately directed upon the inoffensive crowd, but fortunately
no one was injured. The robber meantime was pursued and killed.

A great commotion ensued, and Cook was profuse in his protestations, to pacify the natives.
He promised payment for all that he required for the construction of his fort, and would not
allow a tree to be felled without their sanction. Finally, he had the butcher of the Endeavour
mast-headed and flogged, for threatening the wife of one of the chiefs with death.

This proceeding effaced the recollection of the painful antecedents, and with the exception
of some thieving by the natives, the friendly relations remained undisturbed.

And now the moment for the execution of the primary object of the voyage approached. Cook accordingly
took steps for putting the instructions he had received into effect. With this view, he despatched
observers with Sir Joseph Banks to Eimeo, one of the neighbouring isles.

Four others proceeded to a favourable distance from the fort, where Cook himself proposed to
await the transit of the planet. Hence the point of observation was called Point Venus.

The night preceding the observation passed with many fears of unfavourable weather, but on
the 3rd of June, the sun rose in all its glory, and not a cloud troubled the observers throughout
the day.

The observations, according to W. de Tonnelle's article in "Nature," for the 28th of March,
1874, were most fatiguing for the astronomers, for they began at twenty-one minutes after nine
in the morning, and only terminated at ten minutes after three in the afternoon, at which moment
the heat was stifling. The thermometer registered 120 degrees Fahrenheit. Cook assures us,
and we can readily believe it, that he himself was not certain of the end of his observation.
In such thermetrical conditions, the human organism, admirable instrument as it is, loses its
powers.

On passing the sun, the rim of Venus was elongated as though attracted. A black point or dark
ligament, a little less dark than the body of the star, was formed; the same phenomenon occurred
upon the second interior contact.

"The observation," says Cook, "was made with equal success at the fort, and by those I had
sent to the east of the island. From the rising to the setting of the sun, not a single cloud
obscured the sky, and Mr. Green, Dr. Solander, and myself, observed the entire transit of Venus
with the greatest ease. Mr. Green's telescope and mine were of equal power, and that of Dr.
Solander still stronger. We noted a luminous atmosphere or fog surrounding the planet, which
rendered the actual moment of contact and especially of interior contacts somewhat indistinct.
To this fact it is owing that our observations varied somewhat one from the other."

Whilst the officers and savants were engaged in this important observation, some of the crew,
forcing an entrance into the storeroom, stole a hundredweight of nails. This was a grave offence,
and one which might have had disastrous results for the expedition. The market was at once
glutted with that one article of traffic, and as the natives testified an immoderate desire
to possess it, there was every reason to anticipate an increase in their demands. One of the
thieves was detected, but only seventy nails were found in his possession, and the application
of eighty lashes failed to make him betray his accomplices.

Other incidents of this kind constantly occurred, but friendly relations were not seriously
disturbed. The officers were free to make incursions into the interior of the island to prosecute
scientific investigations, and to inquire into the manners of the inhabitants.

In one of these excursions, Sir Joseph Banks met a band of itinerant musicians and improvisatori.
They were somewhat surprised to find that the arrival of the English, and the various incidents
of their stay formed the subjects of native songs. Banks followed the river which flows into
the sea at Matavai, some distance into the interior, and found traces of a long extinct volcano.
He planted, and also distributed among the population a large number of kitchen-garden seeds,
such as water-melons, oranges, lemons, &c., and planned a garden near the fort, where he sowed
many of the seeds he had selected at Rio Janeiro.

Cook, and his principal assistants, wished to accomplish the circumnavigation of the island,
which they estimated at thirty nautical leagues. During this voyage they entered into amicable
relations with the chiefs of different districts, and collected a mass of information as to
the manners and customs of the natives.

A curious custom was that of allowing the dead to decompose in the open air, and of burying
the bones only. The corpse was placed in a hut about fifteen feet in length, and eleven in
height, and of proportionate width. One end was closed up, and the three other sides shut in
by trellis-work of twigs. The board upon which the corpse rested was five feet above the earth.
There the dead body was laid, covered in stuffs, with its club and stone hatchet. Cocoa-nuts,
wreathed together, were hung at the open end of the tent; half a cocoa-nut, filled with soft
water, was placed outside, and a bag containing some bits of toasted bread, was attached to
a post. This species of monument is called Toupapow. Whence could that singular method of raising
the dead above the ground until the flesh was decayed by putrefaction have been derived! It
is quite impossible to find out. Cook could only ascertain that the cemeteries called Morai,
are places where the natives observe certain religious customs, and that they always betrayed
some uneasiness when the English approached.

One of their most delicate dishes was dog. Those intended for the table never ate meat, but
were fed upon bread-fruits, cocoa-nuts, yams, and other vegetables. The flesh placed in a hole
upon hot stones covered with green leaves, was stewed down in four hours. Cook, who partook
of it, says it has a delicious flavour.

On the 7th of July, preparations for departure began. In a short time the doors and palings
were removed, and the walls demolished. At this moment, one of the natives, who had received
the English with cordiality, came on board with a young lad of about thirteen years of age,
who acted as his servant. He was named Tupia. Formerly first minister to Queen Oberea, he was
afterwards one of the principal priests of Tahiti. He asked to be allowed to go to England.
Many reasons combined to decide Cook upon permitting this. Thoroughly acquainted (as a necessary
consequence of his high functions) with all the particulars concerning Tahiti, this native
would be able to give the most circumstantial details of his compatriots, and at the same time
to initiate them into the civilized customs of the Europeans. Finally, he had visited the neighbouring
islands and perfectly understood the navigation of those latitudes.

On the 13th of July there was a crowd on board the Endeavour. The natives came to bid farewell
to their English friends, and to their countryman Tupia. Some overcome with silent sorrow shed
tears, others, on the contrary, uttered piercing cries, with less of true grief than of affectation
in their demonstrations.

In the immediate neighbourhood of Tahiti were to be found, according to Tupia, four islands,
Huaheine, Ulieta, Otaha, and Bolabola. He asserted that wild pigs, fowls, and other needful
provisions could easily be obtained there. These commodities had become scarce in the latter
part of the stay at Matavai. Cook, however, preferred visiting a small island called Tethuroa,
about eight miles north of Tahiti, but the natives had no regular settlement, and he therefore
considered it useless to wait there.

When they came in sight of Huaheine, several pirogues approached the Endeavour, and it was
only after they had recognized Tupia that the natives consented to come on board. King Oreá,
who was among the passengers, was greatly surprised at all the vessel contained. Soon reassured
by the welcome of the English, he became so familiar as to wish to exchange names with Cook.
During the entire stay in port, he always called himself "Cookee," and gave his own name to
the captain. Anchor was cast in a convenient harbour, and the officers of this vessel on landing
found the manners, the language, and the productions of this island identical with those of Tahiti.

Seven or eight leagues south-west lay Ulietea. Cook landed there also, and solemnly took possession
of this and the three neighbouring isles. He also profited by his stay to make hydrographical
surveys of the shores, whilst a leak which had been found in the gun-room of the Endeavour,
was attended to. After reconnoitring various other small islands, Cook gave the entire group
the name of Society Isles.

Cook sailed on the 7th of August; six days later he reconnoitred the island of Oteroah. The
hostile demonstrations of the natives prevented the Endeavour from remaining. She set sail
for the south.

On the 25th of August, the anniversary of their departure from England was celebrated by the
crew. On the 1st of September, in 40 degrees 22 minutes S. Lat., 174 degrees 29 minutes E.
Long., the sea, agitated by a west wind, became very rough. The Endeavour was obliged to put
her head to the north, and to run before the storm. Up to the 3rd the weather continued the
same, then it abated and it was possible to resume the westward route.

In a few days, sundry indications of an island or a continent appeared, such as floating weeds,
land-birds, &c.

On the 5th of October the colour of the sea changed, and on the morning of the 6th, a coast
running west by north-west was perceived. Nearer approach showed it to be of great extent.
Unanimous opinion decided that the famous continent, so long looked for, so necessary for the
equipoise of the world, known to cosmographers, as the "Unknown land of the South," was at
last discovered!

This land was the eastern shore of the most northerly of the two islands which have received
the name of New Zealand.

Smoke was perceived at different points, and the details of the shore were soon mastered. The
hills were covered with verdure, and large trees were distinguishable in the valleys. Then
houses were perceived, then pirogues, then the natives assembled on the strand. And lastly,
a pallisade, high and regularly built, surrounded the summit of the hill. Opinions varied as
to the nature of this object; some declaring it to be a deer park, others a cattle enclosure,
not to speak of many equally ingenious surmises, which were all proved false, when later it
turned out to be a "pah."

Towards four o'clock on the afternoon of the 8th of October, anchor was cast in a bay at the
mouth of a little river. On either side were white rocks; in the middle a brownish plain, rising
by degrees, and joining by successive levels a chain of mountains, which appeared far in the
interior. Such was the aspect of this portion of the shore.

Cook, Banks, and Solander entered two small boats, accompanied by a part of the crew. As they
approached the spot where the natives were assembled, the latter fled; this, however, did not
prevent the English from landing, leaving four lads to guard one of the boats, whilst the other
remained at sea.

They had proceeded only a short distance from the boat, when four men, armed with long spears,
emerged from the wood, and threw themselves upon it to take possession of it. They would have
succeeded with ease, had not the crew of the boat out at sea perceived them, and cried out
to the lads to let it drift with the current. They were pursued so closely by the enemy, that
the master of the pinnace discharged his gun over the heads of the natives.

After a moment's hesitation, the natives continued their pursuit, when a second discharge stretched
one of them dead on the spot. His companions made an effort to carry him away with them, but
were obliged to abandon the attempt, as it retarded their flight. Hearing the firing, the officers
who had landed went back to the vessel, whence they soon heard the natives returning to the
shore, eagerly discussing the event.

Still Cook desired to have friendly intercourse with them. He ordered three boats to be manned,
and landed with Banks, Solander, and Tupia. Fifty or more natives seated on the shore awaited
them. They were armed with long lances, and an instrument made of green talc, and highly polished,
a foot long, which perhaps weighed four or five pounds. This was the "patou-patou," or toki,
a kind of battle-axe, in talc or bone, with a very sharp edge. All rose at once and signed
to the English to keep their distance.

As soon as the marines landed, Cook and his companions advanced to the natives, whom Tupia
told that the English had come with peaceful intentions, that they only wished for water and
provisions, that they would pay for all that was brought them with iron, of which he explained
the use. They saw, with pleasure, that the people, whose language was only a dialect of that
spoken by the Tahitans, perfectly understood them. After some parleying, about thirty of the
natives crossed the river. The strangers gave them iron and glass wares, on which they set
no store; but one of them, having succeeded in possessing himself secretly of Mr. Green's cutlass,
the others recommenced their hostile demonstrations, and it was necessary to fire at the robber,
who was hit, when they all threw themselves into the river to gain the opposite shore.

The various attempts at commercial intercourse with the people ended too unfortunately for
Cook to persevere in them any longer. He therefore decided to find a watering-place elsewhere.
Meanwhile, two pirogues, which were trying to regain the shore, were perceived. Cook took measures
to intercept them; one escaped by rapid paddling, the other was caught, and although Tupia
assured the natives that the English came as friends, they seized their weapons, and commenced
attacking them. A discharge killed four, and three others, who threw themselves into the sea,
were seized after a fierce resistance.

The reflections which this sad incident suggested to Captain Cook, are much to his honour.
They are in strong contradistinction to the ordinary method of proceeding then in vogue, and
deserve to be repeated verbatim.

"I cannot disguise from myself," he says, "that all humane and sensible people will blame me
for having fired upon these unfortunate Indians, and I should be forced to blame myself for
such an act of violence if I thought of it in cold blood. They certainly did not deserve death
for refusing to trust to my promises, and to come on board, even if they suspected no danger;
but my commission by its nature obliged me to take observations of their country, and I could
only do so by penetrating into the interior, either by open force or by gaining the confidence
and good will of the natives. I had tried unsuccessfully by means of presents and my anxiety
to avoid new hostilities led me to attempt having some of them on board, as the sole method
of persuading them that far from wishing to hurt them, we were disposed to be of use to them.
So far, my intentions were certainly not criminal. It is true that during the struggle, which
was unexpected by me, our victory might have been equally complete without taking the lives
of four of these Indians, but it must also be remembered that in such a situation, the command
to fire having once been given, one is no longer in a position to proscribe it, or to lighten
its effect."

The natives were welcomed on board, with every possible demonstration, if not to make them
forget, at least to make them less sensible of the pain of remembering their capture, they
were loaded with presents, adorned with bracelets and necklaces, but when they were told to
land, they all declared, as the boats were directed to the mouth of the river, that it was
an enemy's country, and that they would be killed and eaten. However, they were put on shore,
and there is no reason to suppose that anything painful came of their adventure.

Next day, the 11th of October, Cook left this miserable settlement. He named it Poverty Bay,
because of all that he needed he had been able to procure but one thing--wood. Poverty Bay,
in 38 degrees 42 minutes S. Lat., and 181 degrees 36 minutes W. Long., is of horse-shoe shape,
and affords good anchorage, although it is open to the winds between south and east.

Cook continued along the coast in a southerly direction, naming the most remarkable points,
and bestowing the name of Portland upon an island which resembled that of the same name in
the English Channel. His relations with the natives were everywhere inimical; if they did not
break out into open outrage, it was owing to the English patience under every provocation.

One day several pirogues surrounded the ship, and nails and glassware were exchanged for fish;
when the natives seized Tayeto, Tupia's servant, and quickly paddled off.

As it was necessary to fire at the robbers, the little Tahitan profited by the confusion, and
jumping into the sea was soon picked up by the pinnace of the Endeavour.

On the 17th of October, Cook, not having been able to find a suitable harbour, and considering
himself, as the sea became more and more rough, to be losing time which might be better employed
in reconnoitring the northern coast, tacked round and returned the way he had come.

On the 23rd of October, the Endeavour reached a bay called Tedago, where no swell was perceptible.
The water was excellent, and it was easy to procure provisions, the more so as the natives
appeared friendly.

After having arranged everything for the safety of the workers, Messrs. Banks and Solander
landed and collected plants, and in their walk they found many things worthy of note. Below
the valley, surrounded by steep mountains, arose a rock so perforated, that from one side the
sea could be seen through it, and from the other the long range of hills.

Returning on board, the excursionists were stopped by an old man, who insisted upon their taking
part in the military exercises of the country with the lance and the patou-patou.

In the course of another walk, Dr. Solander bought a top exactly resembling European tops,
and the natives made signs to show him that he must whip it to make it go.

Upon an island to the left of the bay, the English saw the largest pirogue they had yet met
with. It was no less than sixty-eight feet long, five wide, and three feet six inches high.
It had in front a sculpture in relief, of grotesque taste, in which the lines were spiral and
the figures strangely contorted.

On the 30th of October, as soon as he was supplied with wood and water, Cook set sail and continued
along the coast towards the north.

Near an island, to which Cook had given the name of Mayor, the natives behaved most insolently,
and were greater thieves than any previously encountered. It was, however, necessary to make
a stay of five or six days in this district, to observe the transit of Mercury. With a view
to impressing upon the natives that the English were not to be illused with impunity, a robber
who had taken a piece of cloth was fired upon with grape shot, but although he received the
discharge in the back, it had no more effect upon him than a violent blow with a rattan. But
a bullet which struck the water and returning to the surface passed several times over the
pirogues, struck such terror into the hearts of the natives, that they hastily paddled to the
shore.

On the 9th of November, Cook and Green landed to observe the transit of Mercury. Green only
observed the passing, while Cook took the altitude of the sun.

It is not our intention to follow the navigators in their thorough exploration of New Zealand.

The same incidents were endlessly repeated, and the recital of the similar struggles with the
natives, with descriptions of natural beauty, however attractive in themselves, could not but
pall upon the reader. It is better, therefore, to pass rapidly over the hydrographic portion
of the voyage, in order to devote ourselves to our picture of the manners of the natives, now
so widely modified.

Mercury Bay is situated at the foot of the long divided peninsula which, running from the east
to the north-east, forms the northern extremity of New Zealand. On the 15th of November, as
the Endeavour left the bay, several boats advanced towards her.

"Two of their number," says the narrative, "which carried about sixty armed men, approached
within hearing, and the natives began their war-song, but seeing that this attracted little
attention, they began throwing stones at the English, and paddled along the shore. Soon they
returned to the charge, evidently determined to fight the navigators, and encouraging themselves
with their war cry."

Without being incited to it, Tupia addressed them reproachfully, and told them that the English
had arms, and were in a position to overpower them instantly. But they valiantly replied,--

"Come to land, and we will kill you all!"

"Directly," replied Tupia, "but why insult us as long as we are at sea? We have no wish to
fight, and we will not accept your challenge, because there is no quarrel between us. The sea
does not belong to you any more than to our ship."

Tupia had not been credited with so much simple and true eloquence, and it surprised Cook and
the other English.

Whilst he was in the bay of the islands, the captain reconnoitred a considerable river, which
he named after the Thames. It was shaded with trees, of the same species as those on Poverty
Island. One of them measured nineteen feet in circumference at the height of six feet above
the ground, another was not less than ninety feet long from the root to the lowest branches.

Although quarrels with the natives were frequent, the latter were not invariably in the wrong.

Kippis relates as follows:--

"Some of the men on board, who, after the Indians had once been found in fault, did not fail
to exhibit a severity worthy of Lycurgus, thought fit to enter a New Zealand plantation, and
to carry off a quantity of potatoes. Captain Cook condemned them to a dozen stripes each. Two
of them received them peaceably, but the third persisted that it was no crime for an Englishman
to pillage Indian plantations. Cook's method of dealing with this casuist was to send him to
the bottom of the hold until he agreed to receive six additional stripes."

On the 30th of December the English doubled a cape which they took to be that of Maria Van
Diemen, discovered by Tasman, but they were so assailed by threatening winds, that Cook only
accomplished ten leagues in three weeks. Fortunately they kept at a uniform distance from shore
all the time, otherwise we should probably have been spared the recital of their further adventures.

On the 16th of January, 1770, after naming various portions of the eastern shore, Cook arrived
in sight of an imposing peak, which was covered with snow, and which he named Mount Egmont
in honour of the earl of that name.

Scarcely had he doubled the peak, when he found that the coast described the arc of a circle.
It was split up into numberless roadsteads, which Cook determined to enter, in order to allow
of his ship being repaired and keeled.

He landed at the bottom of a creek where he found a fine river and plenty of trees, for the
forest only ceased at the sea for want of soil.

The amicable relations with the natives at this point enabled him to inquire if they had ever
seen a vessel like the Endeavour. But he found that even the traditions of Tasman's visit were
forgotten, although he was only fifteen miles south of Assassin Bay.

In one of the provision baskets of the Zealanders ten half gnawed bones were found. They did
not look like a dog's bones, and on nearer inspection they turned out to be human remains.
The natives in reply to the questions put to them, asserted that they were in the habit of
eating their enemies. A few days later, they brought on board the Endeavour seven human heads,
to which hair and flesh still adhered, but the brains as being delicate morsels, were already
picked. The flesh was soft, and no doubt was preserved from decay by some ingredient, for it
had no unpleasant odour. Banks bought one of these heads after some difficulty, but he could
not induce the old man who brought it to part with a second, probably because the New Zealanders
considered them as trophies, and testimonies to their bravery.

The succeeding days were devoted to a visit to the environs, and to some walks in the neighbourhood.
During one of these excursions Cook, having climbed a high hill, distinctly perceived the whole
of the strait to which he had given the name of Queen Charlotte, and the opposite shore, which
appeared to him about four leagues distant.

A fog made it impossible for him to see further to the south-east, but he had discerned enough
to assure him that it was the final extent of the large island of which he had followed all
the windings. He had now only to finish his discoveries in the south, which he proposed to
do as soon as he had satisfied himself that Queen Charlotte's Sound was really a strait.

Cook visited a pah in the neighbourhood. Built upon a little island or inaccessible rock, the
pah was merely a fortified village. The natives most frequently add to the natural defences
by fortifications, which render the approach still more perilous. Many were defended by a double
ditch, the inner one having a parapet and double palisade. The second ditch was at least eighty
feet in depth. On the inside of the palisade, at the height of twenty feet, was a raised platform
forty feet long by six wide. Supported on two large poles, it was intended to hold the defenders
of the place, who from thence could easily overwhelm the attacking party with darts and stones,
of which an enormous supply was always ready in case of need.

These strongholds cannot be forced, unless by means of a long blockade the inmates should be
compelled to surrender.

"It is surprising," as Cook remarks, "that the industry and care employed by them in building
places so well adapted for defence, almost without the use of instruments, should not by the
same means, have led them to invent a single weapon of any importance, with the sole exception
of the spear they throw with the hand. They do not understand the use of a bow to throw a dart,
or of a sling to fling a stone, which is the more astonishing, as the invention of slings,
and bows and arrows is far more simple than the construction of these works by the people,
and moreover these two weapons are met with in almost all parts of the world, in the most savage
countries."

On the 6th of February, Cook left the bay, and set sail for the east, in the hope of discovering
the entrance to the strait before the ebb of the tide. At seven in the evening, the vessel
was driven by the violence of the current to the close neighbourhood of a small island, outside
Cape Koamaroo. Sharply pointed rocks rose from the sea. The danger increased momentarily, one
only hope of saving the ship remained. It was attempted and succeeded. A cable's length was
the distance between the Endeavour and the rock when anchor was cast, in seventy-five fathoms
of water. Fortunately the anchor found a hold, and the current changing its direction after
touching the island, carried the vessel past the rock. But she was not yet in safety, for she
was still in the midst of rocks, and the current made five miles an hour.

However, the current decreased, the vessel righted herself, and the wind becoming favourable,
she was speedily carried to the narrowest part of the strait, which she crossed without difficulty.

The most northerly island of New Zealand, which is named Eaheinomauwe, was, however, as yet
only partially known, there still remained some fifteen leagues unexplored.

A few officers affirmed from this that it was a continent, and not an island, which was contrary
to Cook's view. But although his own mind was made up, the captain directed his navigation
with a view to clear up any doubt which might remain in the minds of his officers. After two
days' voyage, in which Cape Palliser was passed, he called them up on the quarter deck and
asked if they were satisfied. As they replied in the affirmative, Cook gave up his idea of
returning to the most southerly point he had reached on the eastern coast of Eaheinomauwe,
and determined to prolong his cruise the entire length of the land which he had found, and
which was named Tawai-Pounamow.

The coast was more sterile, and appeared uninhabited. It was necessary to keep four or five
leagues from the shore.

On the night of the 9th of March the Endeavour passed over several rocks, and in the morning
the crew discovered what dangers they had escaped. They named these reefs the Snares, as they
appeared placed there to surprise unsuspecting navigators.

Next day, Cook reconnoitred what appeared to him to be the extreme south of New Zealand, and
called it South Cape. It was the point of Steward Island. Great waves from the south-west burst
over the vessel as it doubled this cape, which convinced Captain Cook that there was no land
in that quarter. He therefore returned to the northern route, to complete the circumnavigation
of New Zealand by the eastern coast.

Almost at the southern extremity of this coast, a bay was discovered, which received the name
of Dusky. This region was sterile, steep, covered with snow. Dusky Bay was three or four miles
in width at its entrance, and appeared as deep as it was wide. Several islands were contained
in it, behind which a vessel would have excellent shelter; but Cook thought it prudent not
to remain there, as he knew that the wind, which would enable him to leave the bay, blew only
once a month in these latitudes. He differed upon this point with several of his officers,
who thinking only of the present advantage, did not reflect upon the inconveniences of a stay
in port, the duration of which would be uncertain.

No incident occurred during the navigation of the eastern coast of Tawai-Pounamow.

From Dusky Bay, according to Cook, to 44 degrees 20 minutes latitude, there is a straight chain
of hills which rise directly from the sea, and are covered with forests. Behind and close to
these hills, are mountains which form another chain of prodigious height, composed of barren
and jagged rocks, excepting in the parts where they are covered with snow, mostly in large
masses. It is impossible to conceive a wilder prospect, or a more savage and frightful one
than this country from the sea, because from every point of view nothing is visible but the
summits of rocks; so close to each other that in lieu of valleys there are only fissures between
them. From 44 degrees 20 minutes to 42 degrees 8 minutes the aspect varies, the mountains are
in the interior, hills and fruitful valleys border the coast.

From 42 degrees 8 minutes to the 41 degrees 30 minutes the coast inclines vertically to the
sea, and is covered with dark forests. The Endeavour, moreover, was too far from the shore,
and the weather was too dark for it to be possible to distinguish minor details. After achieving
the circumnavigation of the country, the vessel regained the entrance to Queen Charlotte Sound.

Cook took in water and wood; then he decided on returning to England, following the route which
permitted him best to fulfil the object of his voyage. To his keen regret, for he had greatly
wished to decide whether or no the southern continent existed, it was as impossible for him
to return to Europe by Cape Horn as by the Cape of Good Hope.

In the middle of winter, in an extreme southerly latitude his vessel was in no condition to
bring the enterprise to a successful issue. He had no choice, therefore, but to take the route
for the East Indies, and to this end to steer westward to the eastern shores of New Holland.

But before proceeding to the narration of the incidents of the second part of the campaign,
it will be better to glance backward and to summarize the information upon the situation, productions,
and inhabitants of New Zealand which the navigators had accumulated.

We have already seen that this land had been discovered by Abel Tasman, and we have noted those
incidents which were marked with traces of bloodshed when it was reconnoitred by the Dutch
captain. With the exception of Tasman, in 1642, no European captain had ever visited its shores.
It was so far unknown, that it was not even decided whether it formed a part of the southern
continent, as Tasman supposed, when he named it Staten Island. To Cook belongs the credit of
determining its position and of tracing the coasts of these two large islands, situated between
34 degrees and 48 degrees S. Lat. 180 degrees and 194 degrees W. Long.

Tawai-Pounamow was mountainous, sterile, and apparently very sparsely populated. Eaheinomauwe
presented an attractive appearance, in its hills, mountains, and valleys covered with wood,
and watered by bright flowing streams. Cook formed an opinion of the climate upon the remarks
made by Banks and Solander, that,--

"If the English settled in this country, it would cost them but little care and work to cultivate
all that they needed in great abundance."

As for quadrupeds, New Zealand afforded an asylum for dogs and rats only, the former reserved
for food. But if the fauna was poor, the flora was rich. Among the vegetable products which
attracted the English most, was one of which the narrative says,--

"The natives used as hemp and flax, a plant which surpasses all those used for the same purposes
in other countries. The ordinary dress of the New Zealanders is composed of leaves of this
plant, with very little preparation. They fabricate their cords, lines, and ropes from it,
and they are much stronger than those made with hemp, and to which they can be compared. From
the same plant, prepared in another way, they draw long thin fibres, lustrous as silk and white
as snow. Their best stuffs are manufactured from these fibres, and are of extraordinary strength.
Their nets, of an enormous size, are composed of these leaves, the work simply consists in
cutting them into suitable lengths and fastening them together." This wonderful plant, which
was so enthusiastically described, in the lyrical account just quoted, and in the hardly less
exuberant one which La Billadière afterwards gave of it, is known in our day as phornium tenax.

It was really necessary to subdue the expectations that these narratives excited! According
to the eminent chemist Ducharte, the prolonged action of the damp heat, and above all bleaching,
disintegrates the cellular particles of this plant, and after one or two washings, the tissues
which are fabricated from it, are reduced to tow. Still it forms a considerable article of
commerce. Mr. Alfred Kennedy, in his very curious work on New Zealand, tells us that in 1865,
only fifteen bales of phornium were exported, that four years later the export amounted to
the almost incredible number of 12,162 bales, and in 1870 to 32,820 bales, valued at 132,578l.

The inhabitants were tall and well proportioned, alert, vigorous, and intelligent. The women
had not the delicate organization, and grace of form, which distinguish them in other countries;
dressed like the men, they were recognizable only by their sweetness of voice and liveliness
of expression. Although the natives of the same tribe were affectionate in their relations
to each other, they were implacable to their enemies, and they gave no quarter; the dead bodies
of their enemies afforded horrible festivities, which the want of other animal food explains,
but can hardly excuse.

"Perhaps," says Cook, "it appears strange that there were frequent wars in a country where
so few advantages follow victory." But besides the need of procuring meat, which led to the
frequency of these wars, another cause for them, unknown to Cook, existed in the fact that
the population consisted of two distinct races, naturally enemies of each other.

Ancient tradition has it that the Maories came in the first instance, some thirteen hundred
years ago, from the Sandwich Islands. There is reason for believing this to be correct, when
one reflects that the beautiful Polynesian race peopled all the archipelago sprinkled throughout
the Pacific Ocean.

Leaving Haouaikai, which must be identical with Hawai, of the Sandwich Islands, or Sanaï of
the Navigator Archipelago, the Maories had repelled or possibly driven back the aboriginal
population. In truth, the earliest colonists noticed two distinctly separate types in the New
Zealanders. The one, and most important, unmistakably recalled the natives of Hawaii, the Marquisas,
and Tonga Islands, whilst the other offered many resemblances to the Melanesian races.

These particulars, collected by Freycinet, and recently confirmed by Hochsetten, are in perfect
accord with the singular fact, recorded by Cook, that Tupia, a native of Tahiti, made himself
readily understood by the New Zealanders.

The migrations of the Polynesian tribes are thoroughly understood in these days, thanks to
the wider knowledge of languages and anthropology, but they were scarcely suspected in the
time of Cook, who, indeed, was one of the first to collect legends on the subject.

"Every one of these tribes," he says, "traditionally believes that his forefathers came years
ago from another country, and they all assert from the same tradition, that the country was
called Heawise." The country at this time produced only one quadruped, the dog, and that was
an alien. Thus the New Zealanders had no means of subsistence, but vegetables and a few fowls
unknown to the English. Fortunately the inhabitants were saved from death by starvation by
the abundance of fish. Accustomed to war, and looking upon all strangers as enemies, possibly
seeing in them merely an edible commodity, the natives naturally attacked the English.

Once convinced, however, of the utter inadequacy of their weapons, and of the powers of their
adversaries, once convinced that the new comers avoided using those instruments which produced
such terrific effects, they treated the navigators as friends, and conducted themselves towards
them with surprising loyalty.

If the natives usually met with by the navigators had little idea of decency or modesty, the
same was not true of the New Zealanders, and Cook gives a curious example of this fact. Although
not so clean as the natives of Tahiti, whose climate is much warmer, and although they bathed
less often, they took a pride in their persons, and showed a certain coquetry. For instance,
they greased their hair with an oil or fat obtained from fishes or birds, which becoming rank
after awhile, made them as disagreeable to a refined sense of smell as the Hottentots.

They were in the habit of tatooing themselves, and some of their tatoo designs demonstrated
wonderful skill, and taste certainly not to be expected among this primitive race.

The English were greatly surprised to find that the women devoted less attention to their attire
than the men. Their hair was cut short and without ornament, and they wore clothes similar
to those of their husbands. Their sole attempt at coquetry consisted in fastening the most
extraordinary things to their ears, stuffs, feathers, fish-bones, bits of wood, not to mention
green talc needles, the nails and teeth of their deceased parents, and generally everything
they could lay hands on, which they suspended by means of thread.

This recalls an adventure related by Cook, which happened to a Tahitan woman. This woman, envious
of all she saw, wanted to have a padlock attached to her ear. She was allowed to take it, and
then the key was thrown into the sea before her. After a certain time, either because the weight
of this singular ornament worried her, or because she wished to replace it by another, she
begged to have it removed. The request was refused, upon the ground that her demand was foolish,
and that as she had wished for this singular ear-ring, it was fair that she should put up with
its inconveniences.

The clothing of the New Zealanders consisted of one piece of stuff, something between reed
or cloth, attached to the shoulders and falling to the knees, and of a second rolled round
the waist, which reached to the ground. But the latter was not an invariable part of their
dress. Thus, when they had on only the upper part of their costume, and they squatted, they
presented the appearance of thatched roofs.

Their coverings were sometimes trimmed in a most elegant manner, by means of various coloured
fringes, and more rarely with dogskin cut into strips. But the industry of these people was
especially shown in the construction of their pirogues.

Their war-vessels contained from forty to fifty armed men, and one of them, measured at Ulaga,
was no less than sixty-eight feet long. It was beautifully ornamented with open work and decorated
with fringes of black feathers. The smaller ones generally had poles. Occasionally two pirogues
were joined together. The fishing-boats were ornamented at the prow and the poop by the face
of a grinning man with hideous features, lolling tongue and eyes made of white shells. Two
pirogues were often coupled, and the very smallest carried only the poles needed to preserve
their equilibrium.

"The usual cause of illnesses," remarks Cook, "being intemperance and want of exercise, it
is not surprising that these people rejoice in perfect health. Each time that we went to their
settlements, men, women, and children surrounded us, excited by the same curiosity which caused
us to look at them. We never saw one who appeared affected by illness, and amongst all that
we saw naked we never remarked the smallest eruption on the skin, nor any trace of spots or sores."

II.

Reconnoitring the Eastern Coast of Australia--Remarks on the natives and productions of the
country--The Endeavour stranded--Perpetual dangers of navigation--Crossing Torres Straits--The
natives of New Guinea--Return to England.

On the 31st of March, Cook left Cape Farewell and New Zealand, steering westward. On the 19th
of April, he perceived land which extended from north-east to west, in 37 degrees 58 minutes
S. Lat. and 210 degrees 39 minutes W. Long.

In his opinion, judging by Tasman's chart, this was the country called Van Diemen's Land. In
any case, he was unable to ascertain whether the portion of the coast before him belonged to
Tasmania. He named all the points on his northern voyage, Hick's Point, Ram Head, Cape Howe,
Dromedary Mount, Upright Point, Pigeon House, &c.

This part of Australia is mountainous, and covered with various kinds of trees.

Smoke announced it to be inhabited, but the sparse population ran away as soon as the English
prepared to land.

The first natives seen were armed with long lances and a piece of wood shaped like a scimitar.
This was the famous "boomerang," so effective a weapon in the hands of the natives, so useless
in that of Europeans.

The faces of the natives were covered with white powder, their bodies were striped with lines
of the same colour, which, passing obliquely across the chest, resembled the shoulder-belts
of soldiers. On their thighs and legs they had circles of the same kind, which would have appeared
like gaiters had not the natives been entirely naked.

A little further on the English once more attempted to land. But two natives whom they had
previously endeavoured to propitiate by throwing them nails, glassware, and other trifles,
made such menacing demonstrations, that they were obliged to fire over their heads. At first
they seemed stunned by the detonation, but as they found that they were not wounded, they commenced
hostilities by throwing stones and javelins. A volley of bullets struck the oldest in his legs.
The unfortunate native rushed at once to one of the cabins, but returned with a shield to continue
the fight, which was shortly ended, when he was convinced of his powerlessness.

The English seized the opportunity to land, and reach the houses, where they found several
spears. In the same bay, they landed some casks for water, but communication with the natives
was hopeless; they fled immediately on the advance of the English.

During an excursion on land, Cook, Banks, and Solander found traces of various animals. The
birds were plentiful, and remarkably beautiful. The great number of plants discovered by the
naturalists in this part, induced Cook to give it the name of Botany Bay. "This bay is," he
says, "large, safe, and convenient; it is situated in 34 degrees S. Lat., and 208 degrees 37
minutes W. Long." Wood and water were easily procurable there.

"The trees," according to Cook, "were at least as large as the oaks of England, and I saw one
which somewhat resembled them. It is that one which distils a red gum like 'Dragon's blood.'"

No doubt this was a species of Eucalyptus. Among the various kinds of fishes which abound in
these latitudes is the thorn-back skate, one of which, even after cleaning, weighed three hundred
and thirty-six pounds.

On the 6th of May, Cook left Botany Bay, and continued to coast to the north at two or three
miles distance from the shore. The navigation along this coast was sufficiently monotonous.
The only incidents which imparted a slight animation, were the sudden and unexpected differences
in the depth of the sea, caused by the line of breakers which it was necessary to avoid.

Landing a little further on, the navigators ascertained that the country was inferior to that
surrounding Botany Bay.

The soil was dry and sandy, the sides of the hills were sparsely covered with isolated trees
and free from brush-wood. The sailors killed a bustard, which was pronounced to be the best
game eaten since leaving England. Hence, this point was named Bustard Bay. Numbers of bivalves
were found there, especially small pearl oysters.

On the 25th of May, the Endeavour being a mile from land, was opposite a point which exactly
crossed the Tropic of Capricorn. The following day, it was ascertained that the sea rose and
fell seven feet. The flow was westward, and the ebb eastward, just the reverse of the case
in Botany Bay. In this spot islands were numerous, the channel narrow and very shallow.

On the 29th, Cook landed with Banks and Solander in a large bay, in search of a spot where
he could have the keel and bottom of his vessel repaired, but they were scarcely on terra firma,
when they found their progress impeded by a thick shrub, prickly and studded with sharp seeds,
no doubt a species of "spinifex," which clung to the clothes, pierced them, and penetrated
the flesh. At the same time, myriads of gnats and mosquitoes attacked them, and covered them
with painful bites.

A suitable spot for repairs was found, but a watering-place was sought in vain. Gum-trees growing
here and there were covered with enormous ants' nests, and soon deprived of gum by those insects.
Numerous brilliantly-coloured butterflies hovered over the explorers.

These were curious facts, interesting from more than one point of view, but they failed to
satisfy the captain, who was eager to replenish his water supply.

From the first, the great defect of this country was apparent. It consists in the absence of
streams, springs, and rivers!

A second excursion made during the evening of the same day was equally barren of good results.
Cook ascertained that the bay was very deep, and decided on making the circuit of it in the
morning.

He soon discovered that the width of the channel by which he entered increased rapidly, and
that it ultimately formed a vast lake communicating with the sea to the north-west. Another
arm stretched eastwards, and it was conceivable that the lake had a second outlet into the
sea at the bottom of the bay.

Cook named this part of Australia New South Wales. Sterile, sandy, dry, it lacked all that
was most necessary for the establishment of a colony. And the English could not ascertain from
their cursory inspection or hydrographical examination that, mineralogically speaking, it was
one of the richest countries of the New World.

The navigation was monotonously continued from the 31st of May to the 10th of June. On this
latter date the Endeavour, after passing safely along an unknown coast, in the midst of shallows
and breakers, for a space of 22 degrees or 1300 miles, was all at once exposed to a greater
danger than any which had been apprehended.

They were in 16 degrees S. Lat. and 214 degrees 39 minutes W. Long. when Cook, seeing two islets
lying low and covered with trees, gave orders to keep well out to sea during the night, so
as to look for the islands discovered by Quiros in these latitudes, an archipelago which some
geographers had maintained was united to the mainland.

Shortly after nine in the evening the soundings taken every quarter of an hour showed constantly
decreasing depth. All crowded to the deck. The water became deeper. It was concluded that the
vessel had passed over the extremity of the sand-banks seen at sunset, and all rejoiced at
escape from danger. When the depth increased, Cook and all but the officers of the watch retired
to their berths, but at eleven o'clock the sounding-line, after indicating twenty fathoms,
suddenly recorded seventeen, and before it was possible to cast anchor, the Endeavour had touched,
and beaten by the waves, struck upon a rock.

The situation was a serious one. The Endeavour, raised by a wave over the ridge of a reef,
had fallen again into a hollow in the rock, and by the moonlight, portions of the false keel
and the sheathing could be seen floating.

Unfortunately the accident happened at high water. It was useless therefore to count upon the
assistance of the tide to release the ship. Without loss of time the guns, barrels, casks,
ballast, and all that could lighten the vessel, were thrown overboard. The vessel still struck
against the rock. The sloop was put to sea, the sails and topsails were lowered, the tow-lines
were thrown to the starboard, and the captain was about to order the anchor to be cast on the
same side, when it was discovered that the water was deeper at the stern. But although the
capstan was vigorously worked, it was impossible to move the vessel.

Daybreak disclosed the position in all its horrors. Land was eight leagues distant, not a single
isle was visible between the ship and land where refuge might be found if, as was to be feared,
the vessel broke up. Although she had been lightened of fifty tons weight, the sea only gained
a foot and a half.

Fortunately the wind fell, otherwise the Endeavour must soon have been a wreck. However, the
leak increased rapidly, although the pumps were worked incessantly. A third was put into action.
The alternative was dreadful! If the vessel were freed, it must sink when no longer sustained
by the rock, while if it remained fixed, it must be demolished by the waves which rent its
planks asunder. The boats were too small to carry all the crew to land at one time.

Under such circumstances was there not danger that discipline would be thrown to the winds?
Who could tell whether a fratricidal struggle might not ensue? And even should some of the
sailors reach land, what fate could be in store for them upon an inhospitable shore, where
nets and fire-arms would scarcely procure them nourishment?

What would become of those who were obliged to remain on board? Every one shared these fears,
but so strong a sense of duty prevailed, so much was the captain beloved by his crew, that
the terrors of the situation evoked no single cry, no disorder of any kind. The strength of
the men not employed at the pumps was wisely harboured for the moment when their fate should
be decided.

Measures were so skilfully taken, that when the sea rose to its height, all the officers and
crew worked the capstan, and as the vessel was disengaged from the rock, it was ascertained
that she drew no more water than when on the reef. But the sailors were exhausted after twenty-four
hours of such terrible anxiety. It was necessary to change the hands at the pumps every five
minutes.

A new disaster was now added. The man whose duty it was to measure the water in the hold, announced
that it had increased to eighteen inches in a few moments. Fortunately the mistake of the measure
taken was immediately ascertained, and the crew were so overjoyed that they fancied all danger
over.

An officer named Monkhouse conceived an excellent idea. He applied a sort of cap to the stern,
which he filled in with wool, rope-yarn, and the intestines of the animals slaughtered on board,
and so effected a stoppage of the leak. From this time the men, who spoke of driving the vessel
on a coast to reconstruct another from its ruins, which might take them to the East Indies,
thought only of finding a suitable harbour for the purpose.

The desirable harbour was reached on the 17th of June, at the mouth of a current which Cook
called Endeavour River.

The necessary labours for the careening of the vessel were at once begun and carried on with
the utmost rapidity.

The sick were landed, and the staff visited the land several times, in the hope of killing
some game, and procuring fresh meat for the sufferers from scurvy. Tupia saw an animal which
Banks, from his description, imagined to have been a wolf. But a few days later several others
were seen, who jumped upon their fore feet, and took enormous leaps. They were kangaroos, marsupial
animals, only met with in Australia, and which had never before seen a European. The natives
in this spot appeared far less savage than on other parts of the coast. They not only allowed
the English to approach, but treated them cordially, and remained several days with them.

The narrative says,--

"They were usually of medium height, but their limbs were remarkably small. Their skin was
the colour of soot, or rather, it might be described as of deep chocolate colour. Their hair
was black and not woolly, and was cut short; some wore it plaited, some curled. Various portions
of their bodies were painted red, and one of them had white stripes on his lips and breast
which he called 'carbanda.' Their features were far from disagreeable; they had very bright
eyes, white and even teeth, and their voices were sweet and musical. Some among them wore a
nose-ornament which Cook had not met with in New Zealand. It was a bone, as large as a finger,
passed through the cartilage.

"A little later a quarrel arose. The crew had taken possession of some tortoises which the
natives claimed, without having in the least assisted in capturing them. When they found that
their demand was not acceded to, they retired in fury, and set fire to the shrubs in the midst
of which the English encampment was situated. The latter lost all their combustible commodities
in the conflagration, and the fire, leaping from hill to hill, afforded a magnificent spectacle
during the night."

Meantime Messrs. Banks, Solander, and others, enjoyed many successful hunts. They killed kangaroos,
opossums, a species of pole-cat, wolves, and various kinds of serpents, some of which were
venomous. They also saw numbers of birds, kites, hawks, cockatoos, orioles, paroquets, pigeons,
and other unknown birds.

After leaving Endeavour River, Cook had good opportunities of testing the difficulties of navigation
in these latitudes. Rocks and shallows abounded. It was necessary to cast anchor in the evening,
for it was impossible to proceed at night through this labyrinth of rocks without striking.
The sea, as far as the eye could reach, appeared to dash upon one line of rocks more violently
than upon the others; this appeared to be the last.

Upon arriving there, after five days' struggle with a contrary wind, Cook discovered three
islands stretching four or five leagues to the north. But his difficulties were not over. The
vessel was once more surrounded by reefs and chains of low islets, amongst which it was impossible
to venture.

Cook was inclined to think it would be more prudent to return and seek another passage. But
such a détour would have consumed too much time, and have retarded his arrival in the East
Indies. Moreover there was an insurmountable obstacle to this course. Three months' provisions
were all that remained.

The situation appeared desperate, and Cook decided to steer as far as possible from the coast,
and to try and pass the exterior line of rocks. He soon found a channel, which shortly brought
them to the open sea.

"So happy a change in the situation," says Kippis, "was received with delight. The English
were full of it, and openly expressed their joy. For nearly three months they had been in perpetual
danger. When at night they rested at anchor, the sound of an angry sea forced them to remember
that they were surrounded by rocks, and that, should the cable break, shipwreck was inevitable.
They had travelled over 360 miles, and were forced to keep a man incessantly throwing the line
and sounding the rocks through which they navigated. Possibly no other vessel could furnish
an example of such continued effort."

Had they not just escaped so terrible a danger, the English would have had cause for uneasiness
in reflecting upon the length of way that remained to them across a sea but little known, upon
a vessel which let in nine inches of water in an hour. With pumps out of repair and provisions
almost consumed, the navigators only escaped these terrible dangers to be exposed on the 16th
of April to a peril of equal magnitude.

Carried by the waves to a line of rocks above which the sea spray washed to a prodigious height,
making it impossible to cast anchor; without a breath of wind, they had but one resource, to
lower boats to tow the vessel off. In spite of the sailors' efforts the Endeavour was still
only 100 paces from the reef, when a light breeze, so slight that under better circumstances
no one would have noticed it, arose and disengaged the vessel. But ten minutes later it fell,
the currents strongly returned, and the Endeavour was once more carried within 200 feet of
the breakers.

After many unsuccessful attempts, a narrow opening was perceived.

