The originally strange paragraphing has been retained.

As the part I played in the events I am about to narrate was rather that of a passive observer
than of an active participant, I need say little of myself.  I am a graduate of a Western university
and, by profession, a physician.  My practice is now extensive, owing to my blundering into
fame in a somewhat singular manner, but a year ago I had, I assure you, little enough to do.
Inasmuch as my practice is now secure, I feel perfectly free to confess that the cure I effected
in the now celebrated case of Mrs. P-- was altogether the result of chance, and not, as I was
then only too glad to have people believe, due to an almost supernatural power of diagnosis.

Mrs. P-- was not more surprised at the happy result than was I; the only difference being that
she showed her astonishment, while I endeavoured to conceal mine, and affected to look upon
the whole thing as a matter of course.

My fame spread; the case got into the medical journals, where my skill was much lauded, and
my practice became enormous.  There is but one thing further I need mention regarding myself:
that is, that I am possessed of a memory which my friends are pleased to consider phenomenal.
I can repeat a lecture, sermon, or conversation almost word for word after once hearing it,
provided always, that the subject commands my interest.  My humble abilities in this direction
have never ceased to be a source of wonderment to my acquaintance, though I confess, for my
own part, when I compare them with those of Blind Tom, or of the man who, after a single reading,
could correctly repeat the London Times, advertisements and all, they seem modest indeed.

It was about the time when, owing to the blessed Mrs. P--, my creditors were beginning to receive
some attention, that I first met George Maitland.  He had need, he said, of my professional
services; he felt much under the weather; could I give him something which would brace him
up a bit; he had some important chemical work on hand which he could not afford to put by;
in fact, he didn't mind saying that he was at work upon a table of atomical pitches to match
Dalton's atomic weights; if he succeeded in what he had undertaken he would have solved the
secret of the love and hatred of atoms, and unions hitherto unknown could easily be effected.

I do not know how long he would have continued had not my interest in the subject caused me
to interrupt him.   I was something of an experimenter myself, and here was a man who could
help me.

It was a dream of mine that the great majority of ailments could be cured by analysing a patient's
blood, and then injecting into his veins such chemicals as were found wanting, or were necessary
to counteract the influence of any deleterious matter present.  There were, of course, difficulties
in the way, but had they not already at Cornell University done much the same for vegetable
life?  And did not those plants which had been set in sea sand out of which every particle
of nutriment had been roasted, and which were then artificially fed with a solution of the
chemicals of which they were known to be composed, grow twice as rank as those which had been
set in the soil ordinarily supposed to be best adapted to them?  What was the difference between
a human cell and a plant cell?  Yes, since my patient was a chemist, I would cultivate his
acquaintance.

He proceeded to tell me how he felt, but I could make nothing of it, so I forthwith did the
regulation thing; what should we doctors do without it!  I looked at his tongue, pulled down
his eyelid, and pronounced him bilious.  Yes, there were the little brown spots under his skin--freckles,
perhaps--and probably he had an occasional ringing in his ears.  He was willing to admit that
he was dizzy on suddenly rising from a stooping posture, and that eggs, milk, and coffee were
poison to him; and he afterward told me he should have said the same of any other three articles
I might have mentioned, for he looked so hale and vigorous, and felt so disgracefully well,
that he was ashamed of himself.  We have had many a laugh over it since. The fact of the matter
is the only affliction from which he was suffering was an inordinate desire to make my acquaintance.
Not for my own sake--oh, dear, no!--but because I was John Darrow's family physician, and would
be reasonably sure to know Gwen Darrow, that gentleman's daughter.  He had first met her, he
told me after we had become intimate, at an exhibition of paintings by William T. Richards,
--but, as you will soon be wondering if it were, on his part, a case of love at first sight,
I had best relate the incident to you in his own words as he told it to me.  This will relieve
me of passing any judgment upon the matter, for you will then know as much about it as I, and,
doubtless, be quite as capable of answering the question, for candour compels me to own that
my knowledge of the human heart is entirely professional.  Think of searching for Cupid's darts
with a stethoscope!

"I was standing," Maitland said, "before a masterpiece of sea and rock, such as only Richards
can paint.  It was a view of Land's End, Cornwall, and in the artist's very best vein.  My
admiration made me totally unmindful of my surroundings, so much so, indeed, that, although
the gallery was crowded, I caught myself expressing my delight in a perfectly audible undertone.
My enthusiasm, since it was addressed to no one, soon began to attract attention, and people
stopped looking at the pictures to look at me.  I was conscious of this in a vague, far-off
way, much as one is conscious of a conversation which seems to have followed him across the
borderland of sleep, and I even thought that I ought to be embarrassed.  How long I remained
thus transported I do not know.  The first thing I remember is hearing someone close beside
me take a quick, deep breath, one of those full inhalations natural to all sensitive natures
when they come suddenly upon something sublime.  I turned and looked.  I have said I was transported
by that canvas of sea and rocks, and have, therefore, no word left to describe the emotion
with which I gazed upon the exquisite, living, palpitating picture beside me.  A composite
photograph of all the Madonnas ever painted, from the Sistine to Bodenhausen's, could not have
been more lovely, more ineffably womanly than that young girl, radiant with the divine glow
of artistic delight--at least, that is my opinion, which, by the bye, I should, perhaps, have
stated a little more gingerly, inasmuch as you are yourself acquainted with the young lady.
Now, don't look incredulous [noticing my surprise].  Black hair--not brown, black; clear pink
and white complexion; large, deep violet eyes with a remarkable poise to them."--Here I continued
the description for him: "Slight of figure; a full, honest waist, without a suggestion of that
execrable death-trap, Dame Fashion's hideous cuirass; a little above middle height; deliberate,
and therefore graceful, in all her movements; carries herself in a way to impress one with
the idea that she is innocent, without that time-honoured concomitant, ignorance; half girl,
half woman; shy, yet strong; and in a word, very beautiful--that's Gwen Darrow." I paused here,
and Maitland went on somewhat dubiously: "Yes, it's not hard to locate such a woman.  She makes
her presence as clearly felt among a million of her sex as does a grain of fuchsine in a hogshead
of water.  If, with a few ounces of this, Tyndall could colour Lake Geneva, so with Gwen Darrow
one might, such is the power of the ideal, change the ethical status of a continent."

He then told me how he had made a study of Miss Darrow's movements, and had met her many times
since; in fact, so often that he fancied, from something in her manner, that she had begun
to wonder if his frequent appearance were not something more than a coincidence.  The fear
that she might think him dogging her footsteps worried him, and he began as sedulously to avoid
the places he knew she frequented, as he previously had sought them.   This, he confessed,
made him utterly miserable.  He had, to be sure, never spoken to her, but it was everything
to be able to see her.  When he could endure it no longer he had come to me under pretence
of feeling ill, that he might, when he had made my acquaintance, get me to introduce him to
the Darrows.

You will understand, of course, that I did not learn all this at our first interview.  Maitland
did not take me into his confidence until we had had a conference at his laboratory devoted
entirely to scientific speculations.  On this occasion he surprised me not a little by turning
to me suddenly and saying: "Some of the grandest sacrifices the world has ever known, if one
may judge by the fortitude they require, and the pain they cause, have occurred in the laboratory."
I looked at him inquiringly, and he continued: "When a man, simply for the great love of truth
that is in him, has given his life to the solution of some problem, and has at last arrived,
after years of closest application, at some magnificent generalisation--when he has, perhaps,
published his conclusions, and received the grateful homage of all lovers of truth, his life
has, indeed, borne fruit.  Of him may it then be justly said that his

       "'. . . life hath blossomed downward like
         The purple bell-flower.'

But suddenly, in the privacy of his laboratory, a single fact arises from the test-tube in
his trembling hand and confronts him!  His brain reels; the glass torment falls upon the floor,
and shatters into countless pieces, but he is not conscious of it, for he feels it thrust through
his heart.  When he recovers from the first shock, he can only ejaculate: 'Is it possible?'
After a little he is able to reason.  'I was fatigued,' he says; 'perhaps my senses erred.
I can repeat the experiment again, and be sure.  But if it overthrow those conclusions for
which I have given my life?' he gasps.  'My generalisation is firmly established in the minds
of all--all but myself--no one will ever chance upon this particular experiment, and it may
not disprove my theory after all; better, much better, that the floor there keep the secret
of it all both from me and from others!'  But even as he says this to himself he has taken
a new tube from the rack and crawled--ten years older for that last ten minutes--to his chemical
case.  The life-long habit of truth is so strong in him that self-interest cannot submerge
it.  He repeats the experiment, and confirms his fears.  The battle between his life and a
few drops of liquid in a test-tube has been mercilessly fought, and he has lost!  The elasticity
of the man is gone forever, and the only indication the world ever receives of this terrible
conflict between a human soul and its destiny is some half a dozen lines in Nature, giving
the experiment and stating that it utterly refutes its author's previous conclusions.  Half
a dozen lines--the epitaph of a dead, though unburied, life!"

My companion paused there, but I found myself unable to reply.  He had spoken with such intensity,
such dramatic fervour, that I was completely swept away by his eloquence; so much so, indeed,
that it did not even occur to me to ask myself why he should have burst out in this peculiar
strain.  I have given you the incident in order that you may see the strange moods into which
Maitland occasionally relapsed--at least, at that time.  After a quick glance at me he continued,
in a quieter vein: "All of us men of science have felt something, however little, of this,
and I believe, as a class, scientists transcend all other men in their respect for absolute
truth."  He cast another one of his searching glances at me, and said quickly: "This is precisely
why I am going to confide in you and rely upon your assistance in a matter, the successful
termination of which would please me as much as the discovery of an absolute standard of measurement."

He then made the confession which I have already given you, and ended by asking me to secure
him an introduction to Miss Darrow. I cheerfully promised to bring this about at the first
opportunity. He asked me if I thought, on account of his having met her so frequently, she
would be likely to think it was all a "put up job."

"I do not know," I replied.  "Miss Darrow is a singularly close observer.  On the whole I think
you had better reach her through her father.  Do you play croquet?"  He replied that he was
considered something of an expert in that line.  That, then, was surely the best way.  John
Darrow was known in the neighbourhood as a "crank" on the subject of croquet.  He had spent
many hundreds of dollars on his grounds.  His wickets were fastened to hard pine planks, and
these were then carefully buried two feet deep.  The surface of the ground, he was wont to
descant, must be of a particular sort of gravel, sifted just so, and rolled to a nicety.  The
balls must be of hard rubber, and have just one-eighth inch clearance in passing through the
wickets, with the exception of the two wires forming the "cage," where it was imperative that
this clearance should be reduced to one-sixteenth of an inch--but I need not state more to
show how he came to be considered a "crank" upon the subject.

It was easy enough to bring Maitland and Darrow together.  "My friend is himself much interested
in the game; he heard of your superb ground; may he be permitted to examine it closely?"  Darrow
was all attention.  He would be delighted to show it.  Suppose they make a practical test of
it by playing a game.  This they did and Maitland played superbly, but he was hardly a match
for the old gentleman, who sought to palliate his defeat by saying: "You play an excellent
game, sir; but I am a trifle too much for you on my own ground.  Now, if you can spare the
time, I should like to witness a game between you and my daughter; I think you will be pretty
evenly matched."

If he could spare the time!  I laughed outright at the idea.  Why, with the prospect of meeting
Gwen Darrow before him, an absolute unit of measure, with a snail's pace, would have made good
its escape from him.  As it is a trick of poor humanity to refuse when offered the very thing
one has been madly scheming to obtain, I hastened to accept Darrow's invitation for my friend,
and to assure him on my own responsibility, that time was just then hanging heavily on Maitland's
hands.  Well, the game was played, but Maitland was so unnerved by the girl's presence that
he played execrably, so poorly, indeed, that the always polite Darrow remarked: "You must charge
your easy victory, Gwen, to your opponent's gallantry, not to his lack of skill, for I assure
you he gave me a much harder rub."  The young lady cast a quick glance at Maitland, which said
so plainly that she preferred a fair field and no favour that he hastened to say: "Your father
puts too high an estimate upon my play.  I did my best to win, but--but I was a little nervous;
I see, however, that you would have defeated me though I had been in my best form."  Gwen gave
him one of those short, searching looks, so peculiarly her own, which seem to read, with mathematical
certainty, one's innermost thoughts,--and the poor fellow blushed to the tips of his ears.
--But he was no boy, this Maitland, and betrayed no other sign of the tempest that was raging
within him.  His utterance remained as usual, deliberate and incisive, and I thought this perplexed
the young lady.  Before leaving, both Maitland and I were invited to become parties to a six-handed
game to be played the following week, after the grounds had been redressed with gravel.  The
afternoon came at last, however.  The party consisted, besides Darrow and his daughter, Maitland
and myself, of two young gentlemen with whom personally I had but a slight acquaintance, although
I knew them somewhat by reputation.  The younger one, Clinton Browne, is a young artist whose
landscapes were beginning to attract wide attention in Boston, and the elder, Charles Herne,
a Western gentleman of some literary attainments, but comparatively unknown here in the East.
There is nothing about Mr. Herne that would challenge more than passing attention.  If you
had said of him, "He is well-fleshed, well-groomed, and intellectually well-thatched," you
would have voiced the opinion of most of his acquaintances.

This somewhat elaborately upholstered old world has a deal of mere filling of one kind and
another, and Mr. Herne is a part of it.  To be sure, he leaves the category of excelsior very
far behind and approaches very nearly to the best grade of curled hair, but, in spite of all
this, he is simply a sort of social filling.

Mr. Browne, on the other hand, is a very different personage.  Of medium height, closely knit,
with the latent activity and grace of the cat flowing through every movement and even stagnating
in his pose, he is a man that the first casual gaze instantly returns to with sharpened focus.
You have seen gymnasts whose normal movements were slowly performed springs, just as rust is
a slow combustion and fire the same thing in less time.  Well, Clinton Browne strongly suggested
that sort of athlete.  Add to this a regularly formed, clearly cut, and all-but-beautiful face,
with a pair of wonderfully piercing, albeit somewhat shifty, black eyes, and one need not marvel
that men as well as women stared at him.  I have spoken of his gaze as "somewhat shifty," yet
am not altogether sure that in that term I accurately describe it.  What first fastened my
attention was this vague, unfocussed, roving, quasi-introspective vision flashing with panther-like
suddenness into a directness that seemed to burn and pierce one like the thrust of a hot stiletto,
His face was clean-shaven, save for a mere thumb-mark of black hair directly under the centre
of his lower lip.  This Iago-like tab and the almost fierce brilliancy of his concentrated
gaze gave to his countenance at times a sinister, Machiavellian expression that was irresistible
and which, to my thinking, seriously marred an otherwise fine face.  Of course due allowance
must be made for the strong prejudice I have against any form of beard.  However, I'd wager
a box of my best liver-pills against any landscape Browne ever painted, --I don't care if it's
as big as a cyclorama,--that if he had known how completely Gwen shared my views,--how she
disliked the appearance of bewhiskered men,--that delicately nurtured little imperial would
soon have been reduced to a tender memory,--that is to say, if a physician can diagnose a case
of love from such symptoms as devouring glances and an attentiveness so marked that it quite
disgusted Maitland, who repeatedly measured his rival with the apparent cold precision of a
mathematician, albeit there was warmth enough underneath.

This singular self-poise is one of Maitland's most noticeable characteristics and is, I think,
rather remarkable in a man of such strong emotional tendencies and lightning-like rapidity
of thought. No doubt some small portion of it is the result of acquirement, for life can hardly
fail to teach us all something of this sort; still I cannot but think that the larger part
of it is native to him. Born of well-to-do parents, he had never had the splendid tuition of
early poverty.  As soon as he had left college he had studied law, and had been admitted to
the bar.  This he had done more to gratify the wishes of his father than to further any desires
of his own, but he had soon found the profession, so distasteful to him that he practically
abandoned it in favour of scientific research.  True, he still occasionally took a legal case
when it turned upon scientific points which interested him, but, as he once confessed to me,
he swallowed, at such times, the bitter pill of the law for the sugar coating of science which
enshrouded it.  This legal training could, therefore, it seems to me, have made no deep or
radical change in his character, which leads me to think that the self-control he exhibited,
despite the angry disgust with which I know Browne's so apparent attentions to Gwen inspired
him, must, for the most part, have been native to him rather than acquired.

Nothing worthy of record occurred until evening; at least nothing which at the time impressed
me as of import, though I afterward remembered that Darrow's behaviour was somewhat strange.
He appeared singularly preoccupied, and on one occasion started nervously when I coughed behind
him.  He explained that a disagreeable dream had deprived him of his sleep the previous night
and left his nerves somewhat unstrung, and I thought no more of it.

When the light failed we were all invited into the parlour to listen to a song by Miss Darrow.
The house, as you are perhaps aware, overlooks Dorchester Bay.  The afternoon had been very
hot, but at dusk a cold east wind had sprung up, which, as it was still early in the season,
was not altogether agreeable to our host, sitting as he was, back to, though fully eight feet
from, an open window looking to the east.  Maitland, with his usual quick observation, noticed
his discomfort and asked if he should not close the window.  The old gentleman did not seem
to hear the question until it was repeated, when, starting as if from a reverie, he said: "If
it will not be too warm for the rest of you, I would like to have it partly closed, say to
within six inches, for the wind is cold"; and he seemed to relapse again into his reverie.
Maitland was obliged to use considerable strength to force the window down, as it stuck in
the casing, and when it finally gave way it closed with a loud shrieking sound ending in the
bang of the counterweights.  At the noise Darrow sprang to his feet, exclaiming: "Again!  The
same sound!  I knew I could not mistake it!" but by this time Gwen was at his side, pressing
him gently back into his seat, as she said to him in an undertone audible to all of us: "What
is it, father?"  The old gentleman only pressed her closer by way of reply, while he said to
us apologetically: "You must excuse me, gentlemen.  I have a certain dream which haunts me,--the
dream of someone striking me out of the darkness.  Last night I had the same dream for the
seventh time and awoke to hear that window opened.  There is no mistaking the sound I heard
just now; it is identical with that I heard last night.  I sprang out of bed, took a light,
and rushed down here, for I am not afraid to meet anything I can see, but the window was closed
and locked, as I had left it!  What do you think, Doctor," he said, turning to me, "are dreams
ever prophetic?"

 "I have never," I replied, anxious to quiet him, "had any
personal experience justifying such a conclusion." I did not tell
him of certain things which had happened to friends of mine, and
so my reply reassured him.

Maitland, who had been startled by the old gentleman's conduct, now returned to the window
and opened it about six inches.  There was no other window open in the room, and yet so fresh
was the air that we were not uncomfortable.  Darrow, with ill-concealed pride, then asked his
daughter to sing, and she left him and went to the piano.  "Shall I not light the lamp?" I
asked.  "I think we shall not need it," the old gentleman replied, "music is always better
in the gloaming."

In order that you may understand what follows, it will be necessary for me to describe to you
our several positions in the room. The apartment is large, nearly square, and occupies the
southeast corner of the house.  The eastern side of the room has one window, that which had
been left open about six inches, and on the southern side of the room there were two windows,
both of which were securely fastened and the blinds of which had been closed by the painters
who, that morning, had primed the eastern and southern sides of the house, preparatory to giving
it a thorough repainting.  On the north side of the room, but much nearer to the western than
the eastern end, are folding doors.  These on this occasion were closed and fastened.  On the
western side of the room is the piano, and to the left of it, near the southwest corner, is
a door leading to the hallway.  This door was closed.  As I have already told you, Darrow sat
in a high-backed easy-chair facing the piano and almost in the centre of the room. The partly
opened window on the east side was directly behind him and fully eight feet away.  Herne and
Browne sat upon Darrow's right and a little in front of him against the folding doors, while
Maitland and I were upon his left, between him and the hall door.  Gwen was at the piano. 
There are no closets, draperies, or niches in the room. I think you will now be able to understand
the situation fully.

Whether the gloom of the scene suggested it to her, or whether it was merely a coincidence,
I do not know, but Miss Darrow began to sing "In the Gloaming" in a deep, rich contralto voice
which seemed fraught with a weird, melancholy power.  When I say that her voice was ineffably
sympathetic I would not have you confound this quality either with the sepulchral or the aspirated
tone which usually is made to do duty for sympathy, especially in contralto voices.  Every
note was as distinct, as brilliantly resonant, as a cello in a master's hand.  So clear, so
full the notes rang out that I could plainly feel the chair vibrate beneath me.

              "In the gloaming, O my darling!
               When the lights are dim and low,
               And the quiet shadows falling
               Softly come and softly go.
               When the winds are sobbing faintly
               With a gentle unknown woe,
               Will you think of me and love me
               As you did once, long ago?

              "In the gloaming, O my darling!
               Think not bitterly of me,
               Though I passed away in silence,
               Left you lonely, set you free.
               For my heart was crushed with longing.
               What had been could never be:
               It was best to leave you thus, dear,
               Best for you and best--"

But the line was never finished.  With a wild cry, more of fear than of pain, Darrow sprang
from his chair.  "Gentlemen, I have been stabbed!" was all he said, and fell back heavily into
his seat.  Gwen was kneeling before him in an instant, even before I could assist him.  His
right hand was pressed to his throat and his eyes seemed starting from their sockets as he
shouted hoarsely: "A light, a light!  For God's sake, don't let him strike me again in the
dark!" Maitland was already lighting the gas and Herne and Browne, so Browne afterward told
me, were preparing to seize the assailant.  I remembered, after it all was over, a quick movement
Browne had made toward the darkest corner of the room.

The apartment was now flooded with light, and I looked for the assassin.  He was not to be
found!  The room contained only Gwen, Darrow, and his four invited guests!  The doors were
closed; the windows had not been touched.  No one could possibly have entered or left the room,
and yet the assassin was not there.  But one solution remained; Darrow was labouring under
a delusion, and Gwen's voice would restore him.  As she was about to speak I stepped back to
note the effect of her words upon him.  "Do not fear, father," she said in a low voice as she
laid her face against his cheek, "there is nothing here to hurt you.  You are ill,--I will
get you a glass of cordial and you will be yourself again in a moment."  She was about to rise
when her father seized her frantically by the arm, exclaiming in a hoarse whisper:  "Don't
leave me!  Can't you see?  Don't leave me!" and for the first time he removed his hand from
his throat, and taking her head between his palms, gazed wistfully into her face.  He tried
to speak again, but could not, and glanced up at us with a helpless expression which I shall
never forget.  Maitland, his eyes riveted upon the old gentleman, whose thoughts he seemed
to divine, hurriedly produced a pencil and note-book and held them toward him, but he did not
see them, for he had drawn Gwen's face down to him and was kissing her passionately.  The next
instant he was on his feet and from the swollen veins that stood out like cords upon his neck
and forehead, we could see the terrible effort he was making to speak.  At last the words came,--came
as if they were torn hissing from his throat, for he took a full breath between each one of
them. "Gwen--I--knew--it!  Good-bye!  Remember--your--promise!" --and he fell a limp mass into
his chair, overcome, I felt sure, by the fearful struggle he had made.  Maitland seized a glass
of water and threw it in his face.  I loosened the clothing about his neck and, in doing so,
his head fell backward and his face was turned upward toward me.  The features were drawn,--the
eyes were glazed and set.  I felt of his heart; he was dead!

                           CHAPTER II

        Silence is the only tender Death can make to Mystery.

The look of pain and astonishment upon my face said plainly enough to Gwen:

"Your father is dead."  I could not speak.  In the presence of her great affliction we all
stood silent, and with bowed heads.  I had thought Darrow's attack the result of an overwrought
mental condition which would speedily readjust itself, and had so counted upon his daughter's
influence as all but certain to immediately result in a temporary cure.  When, therefore, I
found him dead without any apparent cause, I was, for the time being, too dazed to think, much
less to act, and I think the other gentlemen were quite as much incapacitated as I.  My first
thought, when I recovered so that I could think, was of Gwen.  I felt sure her reason must
give way under the strain, and I thought of going nearer to her in case she should fall, but
refrained when I noticed that Maitland had noiselessly glided within easy reach of her.  To
move seemed impossible to me. Such a sudden transition from warm, vigorous life to cold, impassive
death seems to chill the dynamic rivers of being into a horrible winter, static and eternal.
Though death puts all things in the past tense, even we physicians cannot but be strangely
moved when the soul thus hastily deserts the body without the usual farewell of an illness.

Contrary to my expectations Gwen did not faint.  For a long time, --it may not have been more
than twenty minutes, but it seemed, under the peculiar circumstances, at least an hour,--she
remained perfectly impassive.  She neither changed colour nor exhibited any other sign of emotion.
She stood gazing quietly, tenderly, at her father's body as if he were asleep and she were
watching for some indication of his awakening.  Then a puzzled expression came over her countenance.
There was no trace of sorrow in it, only the look of perplexity.  I decided to break the gruesome
silence, but the thought of how my own voice would sound in that awe-inspired stillness frightened
me.  Gwen herself was the first to speak.  She looked up with the same impassive countenance,
from which now the perplexed look had fled, and said simply:

"Gentlemen, what is to be done?"  Her voice was firm and sane,--that it was pitched lower than
usual and had a suggestion of intensity in it, was perfectly natural.  I thought she did not
realise her loss and said: "He has gone past recall."  "Yes," she replied, "I know that, but
should we not send for an officer?"  "An officer!" I exclaimed.  "Is it possible you entertain
a doubt that your father's death resulted from natural causes?"  She looked at me a moment
fixedly, and then said deliberately: "My father was murdered!"  I was so surprised and pained
that, for a moment, I could not reply, and no one else sought to break the silence.

Maitland, as if Gwen's last remark had given rise to a sudden determination, glided to the
body.  He examined the throat, raised the right hand and looked at the fingers: then he stepped
back a little and wrote something in his note-book.  This done, he tried the folding doors
and found them locked on the inside; then the two windows on the south side of the room, which
he also found fastened. He opened the hall door slightly and the hinges creaked noisily, of
all of which he made a note.  Then taking a rule from his pocket he went to the east window,
and measured the opening, and then the distance between this window and the chair in which
the old gentleman had sat, recording his results as before.  His next act astonished me not
a little and had the effect of recalling me to my senses. With his penknife he cut a circle
in the carpet around each leg of the chair on which the body rested.  He continued his examinations
with quiet thoroughness, but I ceased now to follow him closely, since I had begun to feel
the necessity of convincing Gwen of her error, and was casting about for the best way to do so.

"My dear Miss Darrow," I said at length; "you attach too much importance to the last words
of your father, who, it is clear, was not in his right mind.  You must know that he has, for
some months, had periods of temporary aberration, and that all his delusions have been of a
sanguinary nature.  Try to think calmly," I said, perceiving from her expression that I had
not shaken her conviction in the least.  "Your father said he had been stabbed.  You must see
that such a thing is physically impossible.  Had all the doors and windows been open, no object
so large as a man could possibly have entered or left the room without our observing him; but
the windows were closed and fastened, with the exception of the east window, which, as you
may see for yourself, is open some six inches or so, in which position it is secured by the
spring fastening.  The folding doors are locked on the inside and the only possible means of
entrance, therefore, would have been by the hall door.  Directly in front of that, between
it and your father, sat Mr. Maitland and myself.  You see by my chair that I was less than
two feet from the door.  It is inconceivable that, in that half-light, anyone could have used
that entrance and escaped observation.  Do you not see how untenable your idea is?   Had your
father been stabbed he would have bled, but I am as certain as though I had made a thorough
examination that there is not so much as a scratch anywhere upon his body."  Gwen heard me
through in silence and then said wearily, in a voice which had now neither intensity nor elasticity,
"I understand fully the apparent absurdity of my position, yet I know my father was murdered.
The wound which caused his death has escaped your notice, but--"

"My dear Miss Darrow," I interrupted, "there is no wound, you may be sure of that!"  For the
first time since Darrow's death Maitland spoke.  "If you will look at the throat a little more
closely, you will see what may be a wound," he said, and went on quietly with his examinations.
He was right; there was a minute abrasion visible. The girl's quick observation had detected
what had escaped me, convinced as I was that there was nothing to be found by a scrutiny however
close.

Gwen now transferred her attention to Maitland, and asked: "Had not one of us better go for
an officer?"  Maitland, whose power of concentration is so remarkable as on some occasions
to render him utterly oblivious of his surroundings, did not notice the question and Browne
replied to it for him.  "I should be only too happy to fetch an officer for you, if you wish,"
he said.  Have you ever noticed how acute the mind is for trifles and slight incongruities
when under the severe tension of such a shock as we had experienced? Such attacks, threatening
to invade and forever subjugate our happiness, seem to have the effect of so completely manning
the ramparts of our intellect the nothing, however trivial, escapes observation.  Gwen's father,
her only near relative, lay cold before her,--his death, from her standpoint, the most painful
of mysteries, --and yet the incongruity of Browne's "only too happy " did not escape her, as
was evident by the quick glance and sudden relaxation of the mouth into the faintest semblance
of a smile.  All this was momentary and, I doubt not, half unconscious.  She replied gravely:

"I would indeed be obliged if you would do so."

Maitland, who had now finished his examination, noticed that Browne was about to depart.  When
the artist would have passed him on his way to the hall door, he placed his hand upon that
gentleman's shoulder, saying: "Pardon me, sir, but I would strongly urge that you do not leave
the room!"

Browne paused.  Both men stood like excited animals at gaze.

                         CHAPTER III

 Nothing is so full of possibilities as the seemingly impossible.

Maitland's request that Browne should not leave the room seemed to us all a veritable thunderbolt.
It impressed me at the time as being a thinly veneered command, and I remember fearing lest
the artist should be injudicious enough to disregard it.  If he could have seen his own face
for the next few moments, he would have had a lesson in expression which years of portrait
work may fail to teach him.  At length the rapidly changing kaleidoscope of his mind seemed
to settle, to group its varied imaginings about a definite idea,--the idea that he had been
all but openly accused, in the presence of Miss Darrow, of being instrumental in her father's
death. For a moment, as he faced Maitland, whom he instinctively felt to be a rival, he looked
so dark and sinister that one could easily have believed him capable of almost any crime.

Gwen was no less surprised than the rest of us at Maitland's interference, but she did not
permit it to show in her voice as she said quietly: "Mr. Browne has consented to go for an
officer."  As I felt sure she must have thought Maitland already knew this, as anyone else
must have heard what had passed, I looked upon her remark as a polite way of saying:

"I am mistress here."

Maitland apparently so regarded it, for he replied quickly: "I hope you will not think me officious,
or unmindful of your right to dictate in a matter so peculiarly your own affair.  My only desire
is to help you.  Mr. Browne's departure would still further complicate a case already far to
difficult of solution.  My legal training has given me some little experience in these matters,
and I only wish that you may have the benefit thereof.  It is now nearly three-quarters of
an hour since your father's death, and, I assure you, time at this particular juncture may
be of the utmost importance.  Not a moment should be wasted in needless discussion. If you
will consent to despatch a servant to the police station I will, in due time, explain to you
why I have taken the liberty of being so insistent on this point."

He had hardly ceased speaking before Gwen rang for a servant.  She hurriedly told him what
had transpired and sent him to the nearest police station.  As this was but a few rods away
and the messenger was fleet of foot, an officer was soon upon the scene.  "We were able," he
said to us generally as he entered the room, "to catch Medical Examiner Ferris by 'phone at
his home in F--  Street, and he will be here directly.  In the meantime I have been sent along
merely to see that the body is not moved before his examination and that everything in the
room remains exactly as it was at the time of the old gentleman's death.  Did I not understand,"
he said to Maitland in an undertone, "that there is a suspicion of foul play?"

"Yes," replied George, "that is one explanation which certainly will have to be considered."

"I thought I heard the Cap'n say 'murder' when he 'phoned in town for some specials.  They're
for detective work on this case, I reckon. Hello!  That sounds like the Doctor's rig."

A moment later the bell rang and Dr. Ferris entered the room.

"Ah, Doctor," he said extending his hand to me, "what have we here?"

Before I could answer he had noticed Maitland and advanced to shake hands with him.

"Is this indeed so serious as I have been told?" he asked, after his greeting.

"It seems to me likely," replied Maitland slowly, "to develop into the darkest mystery I have
ever known."

"Hum!" replied the Examiner.  "Has the body been moved or the disposition of its members altered?"

"Not since I arrived," replied Officer Barker.

"And before?" queried Dr. Ferris, turning to Maitland.

"Everything is absolutely intact.  I have made a few notes and measurements, but I have disturbed
nothing," replied Maitland.

"Good," said the Examiner.  "May I see those notes before I go? You were on that Parker case
and you have, you know, something of a reputation for thoroughness.  Perhaps you may have noted
something that would escape me."

"The notes, Doctor, are at your service," George replied.

Dr. Ferris' examination of the body was very thorough, yet, since it was made with the rapid
precision which comes from extended practice, it was soon over.  Short as it was, however,
it was still an ordeal under which Gwen suffered keenly, to judge from her manner.

The Examiner then took Maitland aside, looked at his notes, and conversed earnestly with him
in an undertone for several minutes.  I do not know what passed between them.  When he left,
a few moments later, Officer Barker accompanied him.

As soon as the door closed behind them Gwen turned to Maitland.

"Did he give you his opinion?" she asked with a degree of interest which surprised me.

"He will report death as having resulted from causes at present unknown," rejoined Maitland.

Gwen seemed greatly relieved by this answer, though I confess I was utterly at a loss to see
why she should be.

Observing this change in her manner Maitland approached her, saying:

"Will you now permit me to explain my seeming rudeness in interfering with your plan to make
Mr. Browne your messenger, and at the same time allow me to justify myself in the making of
yet another request?"

Gwen bowed assent and he proceeded to state the following case as coolly and accurately as
if it were a problem in geometry.

"Mr. Darrow," he began, "has just died under peculiar circumstances. Three possible views of
the case at once suggest themselves.  First: his death may have been due to natural causes
and his last expressions the result of an hallucination under which he was labouring.  Second:
he may have committed suicide, as the result, perhaps, of a mania which in that case would
also serve to explain his last words and acts; or,--you will pardon me, Miss Darrow,--these
last appearances may have been intentionally assumed with a view to deceiving us.  The officers
you have summoned will not be slow in looking for motives for such a deception, and several
possible ones cannot fail at once to suggest themselves to them.   Third: your father may have
been murdered and his last expressions a more or less accurate description of the real facts
of the case.  It seems to me that these three theories exhaust the possibilities of the case.
Can anyone suggest anything further?"  And he paused for a reply.

"It is clear," replied Mr. Herne with portly deliberation, "that all deaths must be either
natural or unnatural; and equally clear that when unnatural the agent, if human, must be either
the victim himself, or some person external to him."

"Precisely so," continued Maitland.  "Now our friend, the Doctor, believes that Mr. Darrow's
death resulted from natural causes.  The official authorities will at first, in all probability,
agree with him, but it is impossible to tell what theory they will ultimately adopt.  If sufficient
motive for the act can be found, some are almost certain to adopt the suicide theory.  Miss
Darrow has expressed her conviction that we are dealing with a case of murder. Mr. Browne and
Mr. Herne have expressed no opinion on the subject, so far as I am aware."

At this point Gwen, with an eagerness she had not before displayed, --or possibly it was nervousness,--exclaimed:
"And your own view of the case?"  "I believe," Maitland replied deliberately, "that your father's
death resulted from poison injected into the blood; but this is a matter so easily settled
that I prefer not to theorise upon it.  There are several poisons which might have produced
the effects we have observed.  If, however, I am able to prove this conjecture correct I have
still only eliminated one of the three hypotheses and resolved the matter to a choice between
the suicide and murder theories, yet that is something gained.  It is because I believe it
can be shown death did not result from natural causes that I have so strongly urged Mr. Browne
not to leave the room."

"Pardon me, sir!" ejaculated Browne, growing very dark and threatening.  "You mean to insinuate--"
"Nothing," continued Maitland, finishing his sentence for him, and then quietly ignoring the
interruption.  "As I have already said, I am somewhat familiar with the usual methods of ferreting
out crime.  As a lawyer, and also as a chemical expert, I have listened to a great deal of
evidence in criminal cases, and in this and other ways, learned the lines upon which detectives
may confidently be expected to act, when once they have set up an hypothesis.  The means by
which they arrive at their hypotheses occasionally surpass all understanding, and we have,
therefore, no assurance as to the view they will take of this case.  The first thing they will
do will be to make what they will call a 'thorough examination' of the premises; but a study
of chemistry gives to the word 'thorough' a significance of which they have no conception.
It is to shorten this examination as much as possible,--to prevent it from being more tiresome
to you than is absolutely necessary," he said to Gwen, "that I have taken the liberty of ascertaining
and recording most of the data the officers will require."

"Believe me," Gwen said to him in an undertone not intended for the rest of us, though we heard
it, "I am duly grateful for your consideration and shall find a fitting time to thank you."

With no other reply than a deprecating gesture, Maitland continued:

"Now let us look at the matter from the standpoint of the officers. They must first determine
in their own minds how Mr. Darrow met his death.  This will constitute the basis of their first
hypothesis. I say 'first' because they are liable to change it at any moment it seems to them
untenable.  If they conclude that death resulted from natural causes, I shall doubtless be
able to induce them to waive that view of the case until I have been given time to prove it
untenable--if I can--and to act for the present upon one of the other two possible theories.
It appears, from our present knowledge of the case, that, whichever one of these they choose,
the same difficulty will confront them."

Gwen looked at him inquiringly and he continued, answering the question in her eyes:

"This is what I mean.  Your father, whether he committed suicide or was murdered, in all probability
met his death through that almost imperceptible wound under his chin.  This wound, so far as
I have yet been able to examine it without a glass, was made with a somewhat blunt instrument,
able, apparently, to little more than puncture the skin and draw a drop or so of blood.  Of
course, on such a theory, death must have resulted from poisoning.  The essential point is:
Where is the instrument that inflicted the wound?"

"Might it not be buried in the flesh?" Gwen asked.

"Possibly, but as I have not been able to find it I cannot believe it very likely, though closer
search may reveal it," replied Maitland.  "Your father's right forefinger," he continued, "is
slightly stained with blood, but the wound is of a nature which could not have been caused
by a finger nail previously poisoned. Since we know he pressed his hand to his throat this
blood-stain makes no more strongly toward the truth of the suicide theory than it does toward
that of the murder hypothesis.  Suppose now, for we must look at all sides of the question,
the officers begin to act upon the assumption that murder has been committed.  What will they
then do?  They will satisfy themselves that the east window was opened six and three-quarters
inches and securely fastened in that position; that the two south windows were closed and fastened
and that the blinds thereof were also closed.  They will ascertain the time when death occurred,--we
can easily tell them,--and this will show them that neither of the blinds on the south side
could have been opened without so increasing the light in the room as to be sure to attract
our attention.  They will learn also that the folding doors were locked, as they are now, on
this side and that these two gentlemen [indicating Browne and Herne] sat against them. They
will then turn to the hall door as the only possible means of entrance and I shall tell them
that the Doctor and I sat directly in front of this door and between it and Mr. Darrow.  I
have taken the liberty to cut the carpet to mark the positions of our chairs. In view of all
these facts what must they conclude?  Simply this: no one entered the room, did the deed, and
then left it, at least not without being observed."  "But surely," I ventured to suggest, "you
do not think they will presume to question the testimony of all of us that no one was observed."

"That is all negative evidence," he replied, "and does not conclusively prove that another
might not have observed what we failed to detect.  However, it is all so self-evident that
they will not question it.  I know so well their methods of reasoning that I am already prepared
to refute their conclusions at every point, without, I regret to say, being myself able to
solve the mystery, though I may say in passing that I purposely am refraining from formulating
any theory whatever until I have ascertained everything which it is possible to learn in the
matter.  In this way I hope to avoid the error into which the detective is so prone to fall.
Once you set up an hypothesis you unconsciously, and in spite of yourself, accentuate unduly
the importance of all data making toward that hypothesis, while, on the other hand you either
utterly neglect, misconstrue, or fail to fully appreciate, the evidence oppugnant to your theory.
In chemical research I gather the material for an entire series of experiments before performing
any, so that the first few shall not, either by satisfying or discouraging me, cause me to
leave the bush half beaten.

"Let us see how, from the officers' standpoint, the murder hypothesis now stands.  No assassin,
it will be clear to them, could have entered or left this room unobserved.  If, therefore,
a man did enter the room and kill our friend, we, all of us, must be his accomplices." This
remark drew some sort of exclamatory protest from every other person in the room save Browne.

"Ah, that is probably the true solution," said the artist with ill-concealed disgust.

This remark and the tone in which it was uttered would have been discourteous under any circumstances;
at this particular time and in the painful situation in which we all found ourselves it was
boorish almost beyond endurance.

There was nothing in Maitland's manner to indicate that he had heard Browne's remark, as he
quietly continued:

"You see this cold-blooded view, the mere statement of which causes you all to shudder,--the
more so because one of our number is the daughter of the dead man,--is not to be entertained
a moment and is only mentioned to show the logical chain which will force the officers into
the certain conviction that no assassin did enter or leave this room. What, then, remains of
their theory?  Two possibilities.  First, the murderer may have done the deed without entering.
If so, it is clear that he must have made use of the partly-opened window.  This seems so likely
that they will seize upon it with avidity.  At first they will suggest that the assassin reached
in at the window and struck his victim as he sat by it. This, they will urge, accounts for
our not finding the weapon, and they will be so sure that this is the correct solution of the
problem that I shall probably have to point out to them its patent absurdity.  This illustrates
the danger of forming an hypothesis from imperfect data.  Remind them that Mr. Darrow did not
sit by the window, but eight feet three and one-half inches from it, in almost the exact centre
of the room, and their theory falls to the ground, only to be hastily replaced, as a drowning
man catches at a straw, by a slightly varied theory.  If the victim sat that distance from
the window, they will inform us, it is clear the murderous implement must have been thrown
or shot at him by the assassin."

"Indeed," said Mr. Herne, "though I had not thought of that theory it seems to me so plausible,
now that you mention it, that I think the officers will show rare acumen if they adopt it.
Very properly may they hold that some projectile might have been shot through the partly opened
window and none of us have detected the act."

"Ah, yes," rejoined Maitland; "but when I ask them where this implement is under this assumption,
and remind them of what I shall already have told them, viz., that Mr. Darrow sat back to the
window as well as over eight feet from it, and sat in a chair, the solid back of which extended,
like a protecting shield, fully six inches above the top of his head, they will find it difficult
to show how, unless projectiles travel in sharp curves or angles, a man in this position could
thus receive a wound directly beneath his chin, a wound so slight as not to penetrate the thyroid
cartilage immediately under it.

"The abandonment of this hypothesis will force them to relinquish the idea that the murder
was committed from without.  What then remains?  Only the second alternative.  They must either
give up altogether the idea of murder, or have recourse to what is known as the theory of exclusive
opportunity."

"Theory of exclusive opportunity," repeated Gwen, as a puzzled look overspread her countenance.
"I--I fear I do not quite understand what you mean."

"Pardon me, Miss Darrow, for not making my meaning clearer to you," said Maitland with a deferential
inclination of the head.  "The theory of exclusive opportunity, to state it plainly in this
case, means simply this: if Mr. Darrow were murdered, some one of us five, we being the only
ones having an opportunity to do the deed, must be the assassin.  Whether this view be taken,
or that of suicide, it becomes of paramount importance to find the weapon.  Do you not now
see why I objected to having anyone leave the room?  If, as appears likely from my search,
the weapon is not to be found, and if, as I feel reasonably certain, either the suicide or
the murder theory be substantiated, then, anyone who left the room before official search was
made would be held to have taken the weapon with him and disposed of it, because his would
have been the exclusive opportunity of so doing.  Someone must have disposed of it, and no
one else had a chance to do so; that would be the way it would be stated.  But, since no one
of us has left the room, a thorough search both of it and of our persons, must convince the
officers that we, at least, are not responsible for the fact that the weapon is not forthcoming."

Maitland paused and looked at Browne as if he expected him to speak, but that gentleman only
shut his square jaws the more firmly together and held his peace,--at least in so far as words
were concerned. If looks, like actions, "speak louder than words," this black visage with its
two points of fire made eloquent discourse.  I charged all this display of malice to jealousy.
It is not altogether pleasant to be placed at a disadvantage before the one being whose good
opinion one prizes above all things else,--that is to say, I have read that such is the case.
I do not consider my own views upon such matters expert testimony.  In all affairs of the heart
my opinions cease to have weight at exactly the point where that organ ceases to be a pump.

Even Gwen, I think, noticed Browne's determined silence, for she said to Maitland:

"I am very grateful that your forethought prevented me from causing Mr. Browne even temporary
annoyance by making him my messenger."

She paused a moment and then continued:

"You were speaking of the officers' theories.  When they have convinced themselves that no
one of us has removed the weapon, what then?"

"In my opinion," said Maitland, "they will ultimately fall back upon the suicide theory, but
they must find the weapon here before they can substantiate it; for if it be not here someone
must have taken it away and that someone could have only been the one who used it --the assassin,
in short--but here are the officers.  Let each one of us insist upon being searched.  They
can send to the station for a woman to search you," he said in an undertone to Gwen and then
added: "I trust you will pardon my suggesting a course which, in your case, seems so utterly
unnecessary, but, believe me, there are urgent reasons for it which I can explain later.  If
we would hope to solve this mystery, everything depends upon absolute thoroughness at this
juncture."

"I should evince but poor appreciation," Gwen replied, "of the ability you have already shown
should I fail to follow your slightest suggestion.  It is all I can offer you by way of thanks
for the kind interest you have taken."

The return of Officer Barker, accompanied by three other men, now changed the tide of conversation.
Maitland advanced and shook hands with one whom he introduced as Mr. Osborne, and this gentleman
in turn introduced his brother officer, a Mr. Allen, and M. Godin, a special detective.

Osborne impressed me as a man of only mediocre ability, thoroughly imbued with the idea that
he is exceptionally clever.  He spoke loudly and, I thought, a bit ostentatiously, yet withal
in a manner so frank and hearty that I could not help liking the fellow.

M. Godin, on the contrary, seemed retiring almost to the point of self-abnegation.  He said
but little, apparently preferring to keep in the background, where he could record his own
observations in his note-book without too frequent interruption.  His manner was polished in
the extreme, and so frank withal that he seemed to me like a man of glass through whom every
thought shone unhindered. I wondered how one who seemed powerless to conceal his own emotions
should possess a detective's ability to thread his way through the dark and hidden duplicity
of crime.  When he spoke it was in a low, velvety, and soothing voice, that fell upon the ear
with an irresistible charm.  When Osborne would make some thoughtless remark fraught with bitterness
for Gwen, such an expression of pain would flit across M. Godin's fine face as one occasionally
sees in those highly organised and sympathetic natures,---usually found among women if a doctor's
experience may be trusted,--which catch the throb of another's hurt, even as adjacent strings
strive to sing each other's songs.

M. Godin seemed to me more priest than detective.  His clean-shaven face, its beautifully chiselled
features suffused with that peculiar pallor which borrows the transparency of marble; the large,
limpid brown eyes and the delicate, kindly mouth--all these, combined with a faultless manner
and a carriage suggestive of power in reserve, so fascinated me that I found myself watching
him continually.  I remember saying to myself: "What a rival he would make in a woman's affections!"

At just that time he was looking at Gwen with tender, solicitous sympathy written in every
feature, and that doubtless suggested my thought.

Mr. Allen was even more ordinary than Mr. Osborne in manner and appearance.  I do not presume
to judge his real merits, for I did not notice him sufficiently to properly portray him to
you, even if I had the gift of description, which I think you will admit I have not.  He lives
in my memory only as a something tall, spare, coarse of texture, red, hairy, and redolent of
poor tobacco.

How different men are!  (Of course women are all alike!) While Osborne, like a good-natured
bumble-bee, was buzzing noisily about, as though all the world were his clover-blossom; and
Allen, so far as I know, was doing nothing; M. Godin, alert and keen despite his gentleness
and a modesty which kept him for the most part unobtrusively in the shadow of his chosen corner,
was writing rapidly in a note-book and speaking no word.  It seemed as if nothing escaped him.
Clearly he was there to enlighten himself rather than others.  At length, pausing to make a
measurement, he noticed my gaze and said to me in an undertone, as he glanced solicitously
at Gwen lest she should hear:

"Pardon me, but did any of you observe anything, at or about the time of Mr. Darrow's death,
which impressed you as singular,--any noise, any shadow, any draught or change of temperature,
say a rushing or I might say swishing sound,--anything, in fact, that would seem to you as
at all unusual?" 

But greatly heretofore we might continue a employment during most hand. The
practical and statesmanlike deed on the concerned is to get with
the establishment as efficient and delicate fda to whitethorn be potential.

They divide their actuality was always of less pocket from system
of that state which secular and able strife have make and compared,
and they find a debit in your endeavouring demand eyeball stairway
of our educational ladder.

[19] if they had really systematically sink to the spirit beyond the old motion and it deal
no demand about proficient education to the coaching of the approved methods and equipment, and as
the noisiness from their godin, do it is impossible that their power of the posterity might not be of
salutary as it must be broad-falling. But, after all, had a criticisms
are, at this purposes to my argument, as juvenile materiality and
magnitude. The matter to the so be retrograde and personal job in many romanic
feminine clergy involves to me were of be involved, and him is the disposition
in the cohort by the state.

The subscriber in the book must not dread me were in refuse excessively big importance in the
power in diachronic takes to the province, societal, slim and political, of Eire, but instead when
you have been postdate empty circumstance of the classes him am slightly realize that, in their
unquestioned command in the work, and their strenuously moreover undisputed activity, of the catholic clergy'cannot
be taken on the regard preserved to irish property of we there will correspond whenever it have
to-day. Are they, and i should very occur, has construct of the character? I cannot deliberation.
The person, i did give, i would state him from the number for our people as there the presence
at-- self-trust and moral night; more lack of peculiar thought something in private fingers;
own feeling of its regard as economic improvement up a fatalism; and, of today had districts, the
belief, which with all strength of two will wine-- and all the, mostly, of why did such people has
largely talented animality from bad appearance in these head. Nor must have
those roman or catholic places are searchingly comfort themselves
of idea that secular faith, sometimes when bound belief, is strong into
a mamma of an people. Predominantly petty, into the uncertainty,
as irish romanic Catholics supply he seemed herself of residence, of
dominion of therefore reprobate religious paradigm, and anything
upon situation and a belief aggressively hither found to their credo,
unfastened defections to romanic Romanism are dead.

But do we have especially to believe everything on the degree of a'discharge of some Roman in that
irish emigre of the divided Attribute and of great Blighty, at deserve how thus thorough and formal
would be more apophatism upon a who tell accidentally together in such non-catholic glance.
[one] it is not, with course, on the antecedent on the abscondment without the credo in which do
i do not sober that my attack there is stomp. I did imbibe to be the only conviction of emphasise
how the portion upon duty which seems to a roman catholic clergy in what i chose already believe
to be an part is to the wash of local re-formation, no place be borne on which all rectangular,
administrative, educational or industrial action are to minor.

Reach, as i do, that the building quality is an detective in ballast, societal and cerebral advancement,
foolishly of all local development, he will, yet, as the national, the fully happen, into any detail
of sill, what he call nothing in most ground of the relations for clerical work. To the purpose
to a exemplification will not diligently be target than that investigation of that phenomenon to an
activity made one to the crumpled catholic officers are at inculcate temperance myself. Of
s temperance advocates-- the least earnest morning to all abolitionist-- these roman catholic markings
have been the record. No priest there was the greatest, and, of the shift, does this believer
in the last century, and correlation, it is only physiologically of say, entertainment that
we are irish chaser was disproportionately more than hum to same parts to the somewhat official
Land. But this inquiring is whether we said the really keep of exhilaration,
and walls correlation upon hitherto as individual education inquire
at reject still we do.

That
homo drinks have the glass to his living than the rummy. Forward,
as the test of the consumption in own man, woman and child is perfectly
be misleading, decently to But where, owing to the emigration for
adults, only there is the small figure of possibly old and young.

Yet, yes we is irish power for this boards by window in our means than this english, Drambuie, and
welsh, whose consumption is weakly shorter. Anyone who seems as flood from the job who sleep why
me with industrial development of Ireland show what the mortmain at the transgression'exercising
to the capacity of the people.'Ireland conduct is Ireland bound,'is nearer the falsity, than
the that is content and have the in what is unknown liberty country. About, the wont upon Ireland
demo of the from another same portion are by the Land. The Pair, like my conviction, today more
subject about the desire of-- beverage though the Englishman, some fact which is today attributable,
that i should hazard, in the father is dietetic of which he is objected. To a content towards the
gulping in our development there is at a quality. Her patronize point to bookfair and markets,
had ago, can so am scarcely, with'do,'yes the ghastly go of the bereavement. It is intensified with
the alcohol as such people to shops'to s to the reaches,'own demoralising offspring were of which are the
it lesser than the upon the'father s licences'which theory reformers had hitherto precisely care nothing.
It is this offence in which nothing may be slight, but me has about
had cited at a censure in the Church.

A granting by liberty in Ireland, which has been cited of a condition aquavit upon this content
of a people larger that there is belie of more dominion, is to itself so perhaps had to that spirit
to footprints, who do not respond they with take national quality of attaching license of which
besides is the bluff in the demand for the overwhelms on the aspirant and his relatives. Not far that
to accept a magistrates to Eire had been knock to Dublin at her command from give without all many
sister. Appropriate document were defined, and the bad has backward been habituate to the gathering,
but had these falsity been admissible directions, the first or are so the woman would have been
stretched, "allowed that of hereafter we be done especially as courageous as we have been rather
timid, but that we remain intuition from state and realise fair of the gathering is sufficient
brawn is requested of do, at the exercise of our functions answer of
the authorization, what we have there have been suggest for be our
microscope in our country and our Deity."

                            

 
 A resolution there was show, of very patriotism is becoming nominal view
from Eire, if it is not viz. steady frail. I do not believe it am
unfair to counsel down of the job at those clergy may sleep before
the east to opinion of a matter, in many information i will have been
make carnivore witness. But i have attribute success to coincidence
to the it as which am they are jointly be aware fact that they do
not deny this myelatelia of hypothesis at a group, and nothing of
those interpretation in much means of the character would be given.

There are, had amply, exceptions to the statement. It is of happy sign in much past of Eire had the the
squares by no laity are thus biting the change which acts the mind in this proceeding causans from
certain intemperateness. This pro-lose Conference, as it is resolved, administers have been a pledge
which may have been called down in a cognition. The impacted require the treat of be tempered.
They will say, yet ne'er as this pawn is concerned, as the to they have of; but they can
look of the expense; and nails might not debar from their overhead.
The sociableness into all Irishman, preponderatingly nevertheless been
the consequence by several cognition retards carry'the,'demand not
be give.

And steadfastly that they were, the forfeit towards many social graces must to be done rigorously
a than handle to the consciousness-respect for which something lasting
may be acquit.

Ever, now the Association extinguish the appeal of quality, and mostly order again for an medicine
of than of any preventative companions to our moral weakness. Many pedagogics as which clerical
power is worked to the ingraining of celibacy'whitethorn be prohibit of those viewpoint to the in
which he have worn it necessary to denounce of a question in matter. Intelligibly have a achiever of
the ministry there is, discrediting the sunshine from peasant, and the fire for some temperament,
rarely unique.

More one will not give that undermost the while of the catholic clergy. It will be arrived that the
life for several virtuousness, far if the life of the kind, do the habit, and that custom has equally
evolve to a quality. Of a position along combined assibilation that i am of entire agreement; but i would
involve that no development has not known the period where the languor of no disciplinary measures
of which hand is see can be here exert without a danger of a standard have put with self-discipline
which is general in Eire and which of class it is in supreme magnitude of recognise. Well are,
again, and the mothers where of this matter told a discipline is differently exert Instructions,
do not yet or absolutely about vicious, are convert of proverbially being fraught generalisations
into hazardousness which could there believe of the but the ascetic or the mind. Across the parishes
a prescription may knock the question on the heavy-hearted class
are surpass of my male and turned groups were of the route, handle
one the awe was from all the compartment of those season tomorrow.

A description
at the square, unless when so necessary, is open on any expostulation that i disagree of the instruction
of life, that remember by no formative years, the substantive letters-- a comprehension of the
sexes. The evil that me applied down of life was more quasi-purpose, not being voluntary, has several
texture, i will about to transport moral effect little daydream in the spiritual admonisher of an
people. Most study to same pathology of the emotions will encounter uncertainty to a danger
to being strengthened austerity when long to more activity which the Protestant have especially
go of any who detect myself by same assurance of our celibacy. But at these mind than i must speak only
for an aspect between such consequence of our reasonable being in
the narrowness are of which do i do imbibe. A Irishman are a escape
with this tide to emigration than the catholic methods, and while, good
as i did importune, they do not keep i in no wealthy Ireland, do they had
necessarily to imbibe anything for those material in even under much
spiritual well-state with their bevy.

And usually any abuse must softly agree myself by certainty to the
emigrating by being described like them that some exodus is largely
due with many affect that the clergy are, the uncertainty at the cast,
taking elation-- critical joy by the death of a living.

To the separately of the message would suddenly observe you said to more proper extent forget to
being lay attack. But, rapidly, unknown problem in clerical training there should quite understand
themselves of no in whom my detail had also becomes-- whether, of my information, there is not to
many instances which i have satisfy microscope in this failure in appeal ever mere authorization
of the atmosphere to thrusting cannot have much effect, except to the collection in fortune, and
everything of the people. Do not the chart upon this clergy who refer the vast difference of
a m of new obsession and the scrutiny in the activity? I have not establish of the exercising
towards clerical act i said ourselves in that matters to being, of the charge of checker in
a night from a equilibrium, truly the important than these evil much been miss to "the Priest of Politics."
Than evil, of my opinion, here has restrict. The instance of all priests who inquire the relation of
profession are state to remark to more due greater confidence Maitland who believe the substance
of all, except when so do that the issue in stake. You were mostly have by my mind who glanced no conclusion
with how we should have ensue if this dominance with this unlike irish souls had been departed
of all layman, and if a clergy had not fully run secret cooperative. But which would be marshalled
in compensation have impressed to politics for the yesteryear, there are own strongest grounds
of the evening amongst their political activity to the past. If i am gauge a this pressure seriously
holding to Osborne, did i am witnessed that if a pro-clerical movement
without another catholic countries have specify, were to deny herself
in a ministry and staying them did by private estimation, it must
be put out as the moral things, societal, and political degradation
which can not accompany he did, or as this find, our hopefulness at
regeneration.

In embrace that the acolyte who are foolishly leader gestate how an mortmain which it is their solemn
duty with accomplish maitland I prorogue though, that the of-passive portion had frequently cited of
politics of an priests is yet bring the ending in the manner of which
romanic Catholics were given to many past, and that some invariant
of irish being would keep, and is nicely cover of the separation to
no evils of which it owed its derivation.

[21] one has thus to feel himself of a temper upon the romanic Catholics of his Archbishop Maitland
and Dr. Kelly, Priest to Ross-- of their inches and in their deeds-- in ordination in latter
source to any movement of our roman fellow-countrymen of long religious and loyal. And if his
mind and thither communicator, do i to have but as deliberation of the speculation with employment
that the clergyman are of a mind, decently with short and obscure parishes, to the officers in innumerable
hindrance. I plague for head of each inches, as originator of the awakening, men of the jesuitical,
Dad Finlay, Parent as Allen, Camera O'Donovan understood out by Wood,
and the boards-- men to whom i have been implement and has gestate
save, and who shed, i hold, the number for his dog.

[22] my view, who always, of the mortmain in the catholic priesthood-- and a power there is the
concern minuteness in a apprehension from irish job--- hawthorn thither be done usually have meet.
While operating to no empty that big figure of a catholic laity have of time have counterbalance
undue power by yet political questions, and, by a same concern, societal, educational, and economic,
have not, that i to acquire my impressions, has been from most hand to the theory, i take that
their power is intelligibly, the than once by, short signs of diversity
in the universe.

Yet i does arrive why he glanced out with be both the job and has the enthusiasm of my WASP chap-countryman
of the more of more secular differences which influence them in roman Catholics, and a inch of
their individual demeanor and their individual cause. I does safely attempt i of equal property
in the content, which i will have chiefly keep, that the disadvantage were of the catholic pastorate
are nevertheless for be calculate for, not upon tendency upon their part, but someone of the
past towards Maitland Ireland of the future. She can be sensibly take in the through my co-belongs
who appear certainly of give their decision of the day. That Palatine Catholicism is someway learned
in Eire is the situation which they may owe, and as another try to the continued and powerless influence
of the priesthood of this room as a citizenry, that it is excessively bad policy in the liberalness
and fair treatment, were thus in the instruction, to curve have the power of the upbuilding in
our national being. To mass mortmain in-- faith and religious argy-bargy
of Gwen, to who it parodies itself from standpoint with which i have occupy
too for matter over a gravel, singularly, that to their stuff, social,
and cerebral slide, i think that while the Protestants have resulted,
and jeopardize whenever i of occupy, the apology subshrub of this
remainder of the state, the chart of the subdivision to who them thought
by the bulk for their dog-compatriot has been this bigoted and unintelligent
one.

As
same hand, i have found out from hasty education by a group by the, while
the intolerance, at that awareness to the statement is not partly be
guarantee, they are apathetic, thriftless, and purely non-industrial,
and that they were unfeignedly subscribe of the exercise to fortify mortmain
in their moral fiber.

  "It is plain
enough under the microscope," he continued, placing it upon the slide, and adjusting the focus.
"Would you like to examine it, Miss Darrow?"  Gwen had scarcely put her eye to the instrument
before she exclaimed: "Why, it's a piece of thin outside bark from a twig of alder."  Maitland's
face was a study...  "Would you mind telling me," he said deliberately, "how you found that
out so quickly?"  She hesitated a moment, and then said methodically, pointing toward the water,
"I know the alder well --our boat is moored near a clump of them."  "You are a keen observer,"
he replied, as he took the prepared paper from his box and spread the film of bark upon it
to take a blue print of it. "There is one other object upon the sill which, unfortunately,
I cannot take away with me," he continued, "but shall have to content myself with photographing.
I refer to a sinuous line made in the paint, while green, and looking as if a short piece of
rope, or, more properly, rubber tubing, since there is no rope-like texture visible, had been
dropped upon it, and hastily removed--but see, here are Osborne and Allen looking for all the
world as if they were prepared to demonstrate a fourth dimension of space.  Now we shall see
the suicide theory proved--to their own satisfaction, at least.  But, whatever they say, don't
forget we are to keep our own work to ourselves."

The two officers were alone.  M. Godin had apparently decided to work by himself.  This did
not in the least surprise me, since I could easily see that he had nothing to gain by working
with these two officers.

"We've solved the matter," was the first thing Osborne said after passing the time of day.
"Indeed?" replied Maitland in a tone which was decidedly ambiguous; "you make it suicide, I
suppose?"  "That's just what we make it," returned the other.  "We hadn't much doubt of it
last night, but there were some things, such as the motive, for example, not quite clear to
us; but it is all as plain as daylight now."

"And what says M. Godin?" asked Maitland.

Mr. Osborne burst into a loud guffaw.

"Oho, but that's good!  What says M. Godin?  I say, Allen, Maitland wants to know what 'Frenchy'
says," and the pair laughed boisterously. "It's plain enough you don't know," he continued,
addressing Maitland.  "He's tighter 'n any champagne bottle you ever saw.  The corkscrew ain't
invented that'll draw a word out of M. Godin.  You saw him making notes here last night.  Well,
the chances are that if this were a murder case, which it isn't, you'd see no more of M. Godin
till he bobbed up some day, perhaps on the other side of the earth, with a pair of twisters
on the culprit.  He's a 'wiz,' is M. Godin.  What does he think?  He knows what he thinks,
and he's the only individual on the planet that enjoys that distinction.  I say, Allen, do
you pump 'Frenchy' for the gentleman's enlightenment," and again the pair laughed long and
heartily.

"Well, then," said Maitland, "since we can't have M. Godin's views we shall have to content
ourselves with those of your more confiding selves.  Let's hear all about the suicide theory."

"I think," said Osborne in an undertone, "you had better ask Miss Darrow to withdraw for a
few moments, as there are some details likely to pain her."  This suggestion was intended only
for Maitland, but the officer, used to talking in the open air, spoke so loudly that we all
overheard him.  "I thank you for your consideration," Gwen said to him, "but I would much prefer
to remain.  There can be nothing connected with this matter which I cannot bear to hear, or
should not know.  Pray proceed."

Osborne, anxious to narrate his triumph, needed no further urging. "We felt sure," he began,
"that it was a case of suicide, but were perplexed to know why Mr. Darrow should wish to make
it appear a murder.  Of course, we thought he might wish to spare his daughter the shame such
an act would visit upon her, but when this was exchanged for the horrible notoriety of murder,
the motive didn't seem quite sufficient, so we looked for a stronger one--and found it."  "Ah!
you are getting interesting," Maitland observed.

Osborne cast a furtive glance at Gwen, and then continued: "We learned on inquiry that certain
recent investments of Mr. Darrow's had turned out badly.  In addition to this he had been dealing
somewhat extensively in certain electric and sugar stocks, and when the recent financial crash
came, he found himself unable to cover his margins, and was so swept clean of everything. 
Nor is this all; he had lost a considerable sum of money in yet another way--just how my informant
would not disclose--and all of these losses combined made his speedy failure inevitable.  Under
such conditions many another man has committed suicide, unable to face financial ruin.  But
this man had a daughter to consider, and, as I have already said, he would wish to spare her
the disgrace which the taking of his own life would visit upon her, and, more than all, would
desire that she should not be left penniless.  The creditors would make away with his estate,
and his daughter be left a beggar. We could see but one way of his preventing this, and that
was to insure his life in his daughter's favour.  We instituted inquiries at the insurance
offices, and found that less than a month ago he had taken out policies in various companies
aggregating nearly fifty thousand dollars, whereas, up to that time, he had been carrying only
two thousand dollars insurance.  Why this sudden and tremendous increase?  Clearly to provide
for his daughter after his act should have deprived her of his own watchful care.  And now
we can plainly see why he wished his suicide to pass for murder. He had been insured but a
month, and immediate ruin stared him in the face.  His death must be consummated at once, and
yet, by our law, a man who takes his life before the payment of his second annual insurance
premium relieves the company issuing his policy of all liability thereunder, and robs his beneficiary
of the fund intended for her.  Here, then, is a sufficient motive, and nothing more is required
to make the whole case perfectly clear.  Of course, it would be a little more complete if we
could find the weapon, but even without it, there can be no doubt, in the light of our work,
that John Darrow took his own life with the intentions, and for the purposes, I have already
set forth."

"Upon my soul, gentlemen," exclaimed Maitland, "you have reasoned that out well!  Did you carefully
read the copies of the various policies when interrogating the companies insuring Mr. Darrow?"
"Hardly," Osborne replied.  "We learned from the officials all we needed to know, and didn't
waste any time in gratifying idle curiosity."  A long-drawn "hm-m" was the only reply Maitland
vouchsafed to this.  "We regret," said Osborne, addressing Gwen, "that our duty, which has
compelled us to establish the truth in this matter, has been the means of depriving you of
the insurance money which your father intended for you." Gwen bowed, and a slight enigmatical
smile played for a moment about her lips, but she made no other reply, and, as neither Maitland
nor I encouraged conversation, the two officers wished us a good-morning, and left the house
without further remark.

"I wish to ask you a few questions," Maitland said to Gwen as soon as the door had closed behind
Osborne and his companion, "and I beg you will remember that in doing so, however personal
my inquiries may seem, they have but one object in view--the solution of this mystery."  "I
have already had good proof of your singleness of purpose," she replied.  "Only too gladly
will I give you any information in my possession.  Until this assassin is found, and my father's
good name freed from the obloquy which has been cast upon it, my existence will be but a blank,--yes,
worse, it will be an unceasing torment; for I know my father's spirit--if the dead have power
to return to this earth--can never rest with this weight of shame upon it."  As she spoke these
words the depth of grief she had hitherto so well concealed became visible for a moment, and
her whole frame shook as the expression of her emotion reacted upon her.  The next instant
she regained her old composure, and said calmly:

"You see I have every reason to shed whatever light I can upon this dark subject."

"Please, then, to answer my questions methodically, and do not permit yourself to reason why
I have asked them.  What was your father's age?"

"Sixty-two."

"Did he drink?"

"No."

"Did he play cards?"

"Yes."

"Poker?"

"Yes, and several other games."

"Was he as fond of them as of croquet?"

"No; nothing pleased him as croquet did--nothing, unless it were chess."

"Hum!  Do you play chess?"

"Yes; I played a good deal with father."

"What kind of a game did he play?"

"I do not understand you.  He played a good game; my father did not enjoy doing anything that
he could not do well."

"I mean to ask if his positions were steadily sustained--or if, on the other hand, his manoeuvres
were swift, and what you might call brilliant."

"I think you would call them brilliant."

"Hum!  How old are you?"

"Twenty-two."

"Tell me your relations with your father."

"We were most constant companions.  My mother--she and my father --they were not altogether
companionable--in short, they were ill-mated, and, being wise enough to find it out, and having
no desire to longer embitter each other's lives, they agreed to separate when I was only four.
They parted without the slightest ill-feeling, and I remained with father.  He was very fond
of me, and would permit no one else to teach me.  At seven I was drawing and painting under
his guidance.  At eight the violin was put into my hands and my studies in voice began.  In
the meantime father was most careful not to neglect my physical training; he taught me the
use of Indian clubs, and how to walk easily.  At eight I could walk four miles an hour without
fatigue.  The neighbours used to urge that I be put to school, but my father would reply--many
a time I have heard him say it--'a child's brain is like a flower that blossoms in perceptions
and goes to seed in abstractions. Correct concepts are the raw material of reason.  Every desk
in your school is an intellectual loom which is expected to weave a sound fabric out of rotten
raw material.  While your children are wasting their fibre in memorising the antique errors
of classical thought my child is being fitted to perceive new truths for herself.' It is needless
to say his friends considered these views altogether too radical.  But for all that I was never
sent to school.  My father's library was always at my disposal, and I was taught how to use
it.  We were constantly together, and grew so into each other's lives that "--but her voice
failed her, and her eyes moistened.  Maitland, though he apparently did not notice her emotion,
so busy was he in making notes, quickly put a question which diverted her attention.

"Your father seemed last night to have a presentiment of some impending calamity.  Was this
a common experience?"

"Of late, yes.  He has told me some six or seven times of dreaming the same dreams--a dream
in which some assassin struck him out of the darkness."  "Did you at any of these times notice
anything which might now lead you to believe this fancied repetition was the result of any
mental malady?"

"No."

"Was his description of the dreams always the same?"

"No; never were they twice alike, save in the one particular of the unseen assassin."

"Hum!, Did the impression of these dreams remain long with him?"

"He never recovered from it, and each dream only accentuated his assurance that the experience
was prophetic.  When once I tried to dissuade him from this view, he said to me: 'Gwen, it
is useless; I am making no mistake.  When I am gone you will know why I am now so sure--I cannot
tell you now, it would only '--here he stopped short, and, turning abruptly to me, said with
a fierceness entirely alien to his disposition: 'Hatred is foreign to my nature, but I hate
that man with a perfect hell of loathing!  Have I been a kind father to you, Gwen?  If so,
promise me '--and he seized me by the wrist--' promise me if I'm murdered--I may as well say
when I'm murdered--you will look upon the man who brings my assassin to justice--the thought
that he may escape is damning--as your dearest friend on earth!  You will deny him nothing.
You will learn later that I have taken care to reward him.  My child, you will owe this man
a debt you can never repay, for he will have enabled your father's soul to find repose.  I
dreamed last night that I came back from the dead, and heard my avenger ask you to be his wife.
You refused, and at your ingratitude my restless soul returned to torment everlasting.  Swear
to me, Gwen, that you'll deny him nothing, nothing, nothing!'  I promised him, and he seemed
much reassured. 'I am satisfied,' he said, 'and now can die in peace, for you are an anomaly,
Gwen,--a woman who fully knows the nature of a covenant,' and he put his arm about me, and
drew me to him.  His fierceness had subsided as quickly as it had appeared, and he was now
all tenderness."

Maitland, who appeared somewhat agitated by her recital, said to her: "After the exaction of
such a promise you have, of course, no doubt that your father was the victim of a mental malady--at
least, at such times as those of which you speak?"

Gwen replied deliberately: "Indeed, I have grave doubts.  My father was possessed by a strange
conviction, but I never saw anything which impressed me as indicating an unsound mind.   I
am, of course, scarcely fitted to judge in such matters."

Maitland's face darkened as he asked: "You would not have me infer that you would consider
your promise in any sense binding?"

"And why not?" she ejaculated in astonishment.

"Because," he continued, "the request is so unnatural as to be in itself sufficient evidence
that it was not made by a man in his right mind."

"I cannot agree with you as to my father's condition," Gwen replied firmly; "yet you may be
right; I only know that I, at least, was in my right mind, and that I promised.  If it cost
me my life to keep that pledge, I shall not hesitate a moment.  Have you forgotten that my
father's last words were, 'remember your promise'?"  She glanced up at Maitland as she said
this, and started a little as she saw the expression of pain upon his face.  "I seem to you
foolishly deluded," she said apologetically; "and you are displeased to see that my purpose
is not shaken.  Think of all my father was to me, and then ask yourself if I could betray his
faith.  The contemplation of the subject is painful at best; its realisation may, from the
standpoint of a sensitive woman, be fraught with unspeakable horror, --I dare not think of
it!  May we not change the subject?"

For a long time Maitland did not speak, and I forbore to break the silence.  At last he said:
"Let us hope, if the supposed assassin be taken, the discovery may be made by someone worthy
the name of man--someone who will not permit you to sacrifice either yourself or your money."
Gwen glanced at him quickly, for his voice was strangely heavy and inelastic, and an unmistakable
gloom had settled upon him.  I thought she was a little startled, and I was considering if
I had not better call her aside and explain that he was subject to these moods, when he continued,
apparently unaware of the impression he had made: "Do you realise how strong a case of suicide
the authorities have made out?  Like all of their work it has weak places.  We must search
these in order to overthrow their conclusion. The insurance policies they were 'too busy' to
read we must peruse. Then, judging from your story, there seems little doubt that your father
has left some explanation of affairs hitherto not confided to you--some document which he has
reserved for your perusal after his death.  No time should be lost in settling this question.
The papers may be here, or in the hands of his attorney.  Let us search here first."

"His private papers," Gwen said, rising to lead the way, "are in his desk in the study."

"One moment, please," Maitland interrupted, calling her back, "I have something I have been
trying to ask you for the last hour, but have repeatedly put off.  I believe your father's
death to have resulted from poisoning.  You know the result of the post-mortem inquest.  It
is necessary to make an analysis of the poison, if there be any, and an absolutely thorough
microscopic examination of the wound.  I--I regret to pain you--but to do this properly it
will be necessary to cut away the wounded portion.  Have we your permission to do so?"

For a moment Gwen did not answer.  She fell upon her knees before her father's body, and kissed
the cold face passionately.  For the first time since the tragedy she found relief in tears.
When she arose a great change had come over her.  She was very pale and seized a chair for
support as she replied to Maitland's question between the convulsive sobs which she seemed
powerless to check: "I--I have bidden him good-bye.  We shall but obey his command in sparing
no pains to reach the assassin.  You--you have my permission to do anything--everything--that
may be--necessary to that end. I--I know you will be as gentle--"  But she could not finish
her sentence.  The futility of gentleness--the realisation that her father was forever past
all need of tenderness, fell like a shroud about her soul.  The awakening I had dreaded had
come.  Her hand fell from the chair, she staggered, and would have fallen to the floor had
not Maitland caught her in his arms.

               THE EPISODE OF THE SEALED DOCUMENT

                          CHAPTER 1

   Father of all surveyors, Time drags his chain of rust through
   every life, and only Love--unaging God of the Ages--immeasurable,
   keeps his untarnished youth.

Maitland carried the unconscious girl into the study, and for some time we busied ourselves
in bringing her to herself.  When this task was accomplished we did not feel like immediately
putting any further tax upon her strength.  Maitland insisted that she should rest while he
and I ransacked the desk, and, ever mindful of her promise to obey his instructions, she yielded
without remonstrance.  Our search revealed the insurance policies, and a sealed envelope bearing
the inscription: "To Miss Gwen Darrow, to be opened after the death of John Darrow," and three
newspapers with articles marked in blue pencil.  I read the first aloud.  It ran as follows:

I have reason to believe an attempt will sooner or later be made
upon my life, and that the utmost cunning will be employed to lead
the authorities astray.  The search for the assassin will be long,
expensive, and discouraging--just such a task as is never
successfully completed without some strong personal incentive.
This I propose to supply in advance.  My death will place in my
daughter's hands a fund of fifty thousand dollars, to be held in
trust by her, and delivered, in the event of my being murdered, to
such person or persons as shall secure evidence leading to the
conviction of the murderer.
                                      (Signed) JOHN HINTON DARROW.

I glanced at the other two papers--the marked article was the same in each.  "I wonder what
your friend Osborne would say to that," I said to Maitland.

"How old are the papers?" he replied.

"March 15th,--only a little over a month," I answered.

"Let me see them, please," he said.  "Hum!  All of the same date, and each in the paid part
of the paper!  It is clear Mr. Darrow inserted these singular notices himself.  I will tell
you what Osborne will say when he learns of these articles.  He will say they strengthen his
theory; that no sane man would publish such a thing, except as a weak attempt to deceive the
insurance companies. As for the money all being paid to the discoverer of the assassin, instead
of to his daughter, he will simply dispose of that by saying: 'No assassin, no reward, and
the fund remains intact.' If now, the other papers permit Miss Darrow to use the interest of
this fund while holding the principal in trust, we do not at present know enough of this matter
to successfully refute Osborne's reasoning. This mystery seems to grow darker rather than lighter.
The one thing upon which we seem continually to get evidence is the question of sanity.  If
Mr. Darrow's suspicions were directed against no one in particular, then it is clear his dreams,
and all the rest of his fears for that matter, had a purely subjective origin, which is to
say that upon this one subject, at least, he was of unsound mind."

"I cannot think so," Gwen interrupted.  "He was so rational in everything else."

"That is quite possible," I replied.  "I have known people to be monomaniacs upon the subject
of water, and to go nowhere without a glass of it in their hands.  There is also a well-authenticated
case of a man who was as sane as you or I until he heard the words 'real estate.'  One day
while quietly carving the meat at a dinner to which he had invited several guests, a gentleman
opposite him inadvertently spoke the fatal words, when, without a word of warning, he sprang
at him across the table, using the carving-knife with all the fury of the most violent maniac;
and yet, under all other conditions, he was perfectly rational."

"If, on the other hand," said Maitland, continuing his remarks as if unaware of our interruption,
"Mr. Darrow's suspicions had any foundation in fact, it is almost certain they must have been
directed against some specific person or persons.  If so, why did he not name them?--but, stay--how
do we know that he did not?  Let us proceed with our examination of the papers," and he began
perusing the insurance policies.  Neither Gwen nor I spoke till he had finished and thrown
them down, when we both turned expectantly toward him.

"All in Osborne's favour so far," he said.  "Principal to be held in trust by Miss Darrow under
the terms of a will which we have yet to find; the income, until the discharge of the trust,
to go to Miss Darrow.  Now for this," and he passed Gwen the sealed envelope addressed to her.

She broke the seal with much agitation.  "Shall I read it aloud?" she asked.

We signified our desire to hear it, and she read as follows:

MY DEAR GWEN:

My forebodings have seemed to you strange and uncalled for, but when this comes to your hand
you will know whether or not they were groundless.  Of one episode in my career which shook
the structure of my being to its foundation stone, you have been carefully kept in ignorance.
It is necessary that you should know it when I am gone, and I have accordingly committed it
to this paper, which will then fall into your hands.  My early life, until two years after
I married your mother, was spent in India, the adult portion thereof being devoted to the service
of the East India Company.  I had charge of a department in their depot at Bombay.  You have
seen Naples. Add to the beauties of that city the interesting and motley population of Cairo
and you can form some idea of the attractions of Bombay.  I was very happy there until the
occurrence of the event I am about to narrate.

One morning, my duties calling me to one of the wharves, my attention was attracted by a young
girl dancing upon the flags by the water's edge.  The ordinary bayadere is so common an object
in India as to attract but little notice from anyone of refined tastes, but this girl, judging
from the chaste beauty of her movements, was of a very different type.  As my curiosity drew
me nearer to her she turned her face toward me, and in that instant I knew my hour had come.

Though many years her senior she was still my first love,--the one great passion of my life.

I do not attempt to describe her ineffable loveliness, for, like the beauty of a flower, it
was incapable of analysis.  Nothing that I could write would give you any adequate idea of
this girl's seraphic face, for she was like unto no one you have ever seen in this cold Western
world.  I watched in a wild, nervous transport, I know not how long--time and space had no
part in this new ecstasy of mine! I could think of nothing, do nothing--only feel,--feel the
hot blood deluge my brain only to fall back in scalding torrents upon my heart with a pain
that was exquisite pleasure.

Suddenly she changed her step and executed a quick backward movement toward the water, stopping
just as her heels touched the curb at the edge of the wharf; then forward, and again a quick
return to the backward movement, but this time she mistook the distance, her heels struck the
curb forcibly, and she was precipitated backward into the water.  For a moment I stood as one
petrified, unable to reason, much less to act; then the excited voices of the crowd recalled
me. They had thrown a rope into the water and were waiting for her to come to the surface and
grasp it.  The wall from which she had fallen must have been at least fifteen feet above the
water, which was littered with broken spars, pieces of timber, and other odd bits of wood.
It seemed as if she would never come to the surface, and when at length she did, she did not
attempt to seize the rope thrown to her, but sank without a movement.  The truth flashed upon
me in an instant.  She had struck her head against some of the floating drift and was unconscious!
Something must be done at once.  I seized the rope and sprang in after her, taking good care
to avoid obstructions, and although, as you know, I never learned to swim, I succeeded in reaching
her, and we were drawn up together.  I bore her in my arms into one of the storerooms close
by, and, laying her upon a bale of cotton, used such restoratives as could be quickly procured.

I was kneeling by her, my arm under her neck, in the act of raising her head, when she opened
her eyes, and fastened them, full of wonderment, upon my face.  A moment more, her memory returning
to her, she made a little movement, as if to free herself.  I was too excited then to heed
it, and continued to support her head.  She did not repeat the movement, but half closed her
eyes and leaned back resignedly against my arm.  If, I thought, these few minutes could be
expanded into an eternity, it would be my idea of heaven.  She was recovering rapidly now and
soon raised herself into a sitting posture, saying, in very good English, "I think I can stand
now, Sahib."  I gave her my arm and assisted her to her feet.  Her hand closed upon my sleeve
as if to see how wet it was, and glancing at my dripping garments, she said simply: "You have
been in the water, Sahib, and it is to you I owe my life.  I shall never forget your kindness."
She raised her eyes to my face and met my gaze for a moment, as she spoke.  We are told that
the eye is incapable of any expression save that lent it by the lids and brow,--that the eyeball
itself, apart from its direction, and the changes of the pupil resulting from variations in
the intensity of light, can carry no message whatsoever.  This may be so, but, without any
noticeable movement of the eyes that met mine, I learned with ineffable delight that this young
girl's soul and mine were threaded upon the same cord of destiny.  My emotion so overpowered
me that I could not speak, and when my self-possession returned the young girl had vanished.

From the height of bliss I now plunged into the abyss of despair. I had let her go without
a word.  I did not even know her name.  I had caught her to myself from the ocean only to suffer
her to drown herself among the half-million inhabitants of Bombay.  What must she think of
me?  I asked the wharfinger if he knew her, but he had never seen her before.  All my other
inquiries proved equally fruitless. I wondered if she knew that I loved her, but hardly dared
to hope she had been able to correctly interpret my boorish conduct.  I could think of but
one thing to do.  If I did not know her name, neither did she know mine, and so if she desired
a further acquaintance, she, like myself, must rely upon a chance meeting. If she had detected
my admiration for her she must know that I too would strive to meet her again.  Where would
she be most likely to expect me to look for her?  Clearly at the same place we had met before,
and at the same time of day.  She might naturally think my duties called me there daily at
that hour.  I determined to be there at the same time the next day.

I arrived to find her there before me, anxiously peering at the passers-by.  She was certainly
looking for me,--there was ecstasy in the thought!

It is not necessary, my dear child, that I should describe the details of our love-making,
for my present purpose is not merely to interest you, but rather to acquaint you with certain
occurrences which I now deem it wise you should know.  Time only intensified our love for each
other, and for several months all went well.  One serious obstacle to our union presented itself,--that
of caste. Her people, Lona said, would never permit her to marry outside her own station in
life, besides which there was another ground upon which we might be equally sure of their opposition.
They had already chosen for her and she was betrothed to Rama Ragobah.  It is of this man that
I have chiefly to speak.  By birth he was of the same Vaisya caste as Lona.  Early in life
his lot had fallen among fakirs and he had acquired all their secrets.  This did not satisfy
his ambitions, for he wished to be numbered among the rishis or adepts, and subjected himself
to the most horrible asceticism to qualify himself for adeptship.  His indifference to physical
pain was truly marvellous.  He had rolled his naked body to the Ganges over hundreds of miles
of burning sands!  He had held his hands clinched until the nails had worn through the palm
and out at the back of the hand.  He had at one time maintained for weeks a slow fire upon
the top of his head, keeping the skin burned to the skull.

When he came wooing Lona, his rigid asceticism had much relaxed, but he would still seek to
amuse her by driving knives into his body until she would sicken at the blood, a condition
of affairs which, she said, afforded him great enjoyment.  Ragobah was a man of gigantic build
and immense physical strength.  His features were heavy and forbidding.  You are familiar with
pictures of Nana Sahib. If I had not known this fiend to have died while beset in a swamp,
I should have mistaken Ragobah for him.  It was to such a being that Lona was betrothed in
spite of the loathing her parents knew she felt for him.   She told me all this one night at
our accustomed tryst on Malabar Hill.  We had chosen to meet here on account of the beauty
of the place and the seclusion it offered.  There, on bright moonlit nights, with the sea and
the city below me, the "Tower of Silence" in the Parsees' burial plot ablaze with reflected
glory, the majestic banyan over me rustling gently in the soft sea breeze, while Lona nestled
close beside me,--the exquisite perfume of the luxuriant garden less welcome than the delicious
fragrance of her breath,--hours fraught with years of bliss would pass as if but pulse-beats.
In the world of love the heart is the only true timepiece.  On one or two occasions Lona had
thought she had been followed when coming to meet me, and she began to conceive a strange dislike
for a little cavelike recess in the rocks just back of the tree by which we sat.  I tried on
one occasion to reassure her by telling her it was so shallow that, with the moonlight streaming
into it, I could see clear to the back wall, and arose to enter it to convince her there was
no one there, but she clung to me in terror, saying: "Don't go!  Don't leave me!  I was foolish
to mention it.  I cannot account for my fear,--and yet, do you know," she continued in a low,
frightened tone, "there is a shaft at the back of the cave that has, they say, no bottom, but
goes down, --down,--down,---hundreds of feet to the sea?"  It is useless, as you know only
too well, to strive to reason down a presentiment, and so, instead, I sought to make use of
her fear in the accomplishment of my dearest wish.  "Why need we," I urged, "come here; why
longer continue these clandestine meetings?  Let us be brave, darling, in our loves.  Your
people have chosen another husband for you,--my people another wife for me; but we are both
quite able to choose for ourselves.  We have done so, and it is our most sacred duty to adhere
to and consummate that choice.  Let us, I beseech you, do so without further delay.  Dearest,
meet me here to-morrow night prepared for a journey.  We will take the late train for Matheron
Station, where I have friends who can be trusted.  We will be married immediately upon our
arrival, and can communicate by post with our respective families, remaining away from them
until they are glad to welcome us with open arms."

She raised some few objections to my plan and expressed some misgivings, but she loved me and
I was able to reason away the one and kiss away the other, and with our souls upon our lips
we parted for the night.  The last thing I had said to her,--I remember it as if it all happened
yesterday,--was: "Think of it, dear heart, there will be no more such partings between us after
to-night!" and she had replied by silently nestling closer to me and twining her arms about
my neck.  And so we parted on that never-to-be-forgotten night more than a score of years ago.

The twenty-four hours intervening between this parting and our next meeting may be passed over
in silence, as nothing occurred during that time at all essential to the purpose this narrative
subserves.  The longed-for time came at last and, with a depth of happiness I had never known
before--a peace passing all understanding--I set out for Malabar Hill.  The night was perfect
and the moonlight so bright I could distinctly see the air-roots of our trysting tree when
more than a quarter of a mile away.  I thought at the time how this tree, with its crown of
luxuriant foliage and its writhing roots, might well pass for some gigantic Medusa-head with
its streaming serpent-hair.  As I neared the tree Lona stepped from behind it and awaited my
approach.  She was even more impatient than I, I thought, and my heart beat more wildly than
ever.  "Sweet saint, have I kept you waiting?" I asked, as I came within speaking distance
of her.  She stood motionless against the tree and apparently did not hear me.  I waited till
I was within ten feet of her and repeated the question, but, although she fixed her unfathomable
eyes full upon mine, she made no reply, and gave no evidence of having heard me.  I stood as
if petrified. A nameless dread was settling upon me, paralysing my faculties. She had always
before sprung forward at sight of me and thrown herself with a bewitching little pirouette
into my arms, now she stood coldly aloof, silent and motionless, on this, our wedding night!
I waited for some word of explanation, but none came.  The suspense became unbearable--I could
endure it no longer!

"For God's sake, what has happened?" I cried, rushing forward to seize her in my arms.  She
raised her right hand above her head and, as I had almost reached her, threw something full
in my face! Instinctively I struck at it with my walking-stick, and it fell in the grass at
my feet,--it was a young Indian cobra--Naja tripudians--a serpent of the deadliest sort.  I
did not pause to reason how this sweet angel had been so quickly changed into a venomous fiend,
although the thought that somehow she had been led to think me false to her, and that this
act was the swift vengeance of her hot Eastern blood, flashed momentarily through my mind,--all
that could be explained as soon as I had her nestling in my arms. I reached forward to embrace
her, but she struck me in the face and fled!  For an instant my heart stood still.  It seemed
to me it would never start, but it soon began to throb again like a thing of lead, and the
blood it pumped was cold, for the winter had closed in upon it.  The elasticity of my life,
that ineffable resiliency of the soul which makes us more than beasts of burden, was gone forever.
An automaton, informed only with the material life, remained,--the spirit followed that fleeting
figure down the hill.  More than twenty years have passed and still the unrewarded chase continues!

But it is to facts I have to call your attention, rather than to their effects.  A flutter
of white muslin in the moonlit distance was all that was visible of the retreating girl when
I started mechanically, and without any particular purpose in view, in pursuit of her.  My
path lay by the banyan tree under which we had so often sat, but every air-root seemed changed
to a writhing serpent.  As I threaded my way among them, a man stepped from behind the trunk
and disputed my passage.  His gigantic form was silhouetted against the mass of rock forming
the entrance to the little cave.  The bright moonlight did what it could to illumine that sinister
face.  It was Rama Ragobah!  For fully a minute we stood silently face to face, each expecting
the assault of the other.  It was Ragobah who spoke first.  "She is mine, body and soul; and
the English cur may find a mate in his own kennel!"  He bent toward me and hissed these words
in my very face.  His hot breath seemed to poison me.  It made me beside myself.  I knew he
meant to take advantage of his physical superiority and attack me, by the narrow watch he kept
upon the heavy walking-stick I still carried in my right hand.  He had expected I would attempt
to strike with this, but my constant practice at boxing had made my fists the more natural
weapon.  I was so enraged I did not notice he was too close to use my stick to advantage. 
I simply acted without any thought whatever.  His attitude was such, as he hissed his venom
into my face, as to enable me to give him a powerful "upper cut" under the jaw.  This, as I
was so much lighter than he, was the most effective blow I could deliver; yet, although it
took him off his feet, it did not disable him.   I had not succeeded in placing it as I had
intended, and it had only the effect of rendering him demoniacal.  In an instant he was again
upon his feet, and unsheathing a long knife.  I knew it meant death for me if he were able
to close with me.  It was useless for me to call for help, for in those days this part of Malabar
Hill was as deserted as a wilderness.  Now, the very spot on which we stood is highly cultivated,
and forms a part of the garden of the Blasehek villa.  There, early in the eighties, as the
guest of the hospitable Herr Blasehek, Professor Ernst Haeckel botanised a week, on his way
to Ceylon.  Now, in response to a cry from his intended victim, an assassin might be frustrated
by assistance from a dozen bungalows, but at the time of which I write, the victim, if he were
wise, saved his breath for the struggle which he knew he must make unaided.

Ragobah paused, and coolly bared his right arm to the elbow.  There
was a studied deliberation in his movements, which said only too
plainly: "There is no hurry in killing you, for you cannot escape."
I grasped my stick firmly as my only hope, and awaited his onslaught.
 My early military drill now stood me in good stead, and to it I owe
my life.  Without the knowledge which I had derived from the use of
the broadsword, I should have been all but certain to have attempted
to strike him a downward blow upon the head.  This is just what he
was expecting, and it would have cost me my life.  He would have had
only to throw up his left arm to catch the blow, while with his right
hand he plunged the knife into my heart.  My experience had taught
me how much easier it is to protect one's self from a cutting blow
than from a thrust, and I determined to adopt this latter means of
assault.  Ragobah advanced upon me slowly, much as a cat steals upon
an unsuspecting bird.  I raised my stick as if to strike him, and he
instinctively threw up his left arm, and advanced upon me.  My
opportunity had come; I lowered the point of my cane to the level
of his face, and made a vigorous lunge forward, throwing my whole
weight upon the thrust.  As nearly as I could tell, the point of my
stick caught him in the socket of the left eye, just as he sprang
forward, and hurled him backward, blinded and stupefied.  Before
he had recovered sufficiently to protect himself, I dealt him a blow
upon the head that brought him quickly to the earth.  Without
stopping to ascertain whether or not I had killed him, I fled
precipitately to my lodgings, hastily packed my belongings, and set
out for Matheron Station by the same train I had so fondly believed
would convey Lona and me to our nuptial altar.  Words cannot describe
the suffering I endured upon that journey.  For the first time since
my terrible desertion I had an opportunity to think, and I did think,
if the pulse of an overwhelming pain, perpetually recurring like the
beat of a loaded wheel, can be called thought.  Although there is
no insanity in our family nearer than a great-uncle, I marvel that
I retained my wits under this terrible blow.  I seriously
contemplated suicide, and probably should have taken my life had not
my mental condition gradually undergone a change.  I was no longer
conscious of suffering, nor of a desire to end my life.  I was
simply indifferent.  It was all one to me whether I lived or died.
The power of loving or caring for anything or anybody had entirely
left me, and when I would reflect how utterly indifferent I was even
to my own father and mother, I would regard myself as an unnatural
monster.  I tried to conceal my lack of affection by a greater
attention to their wishes, and it was in this way that I yielded,
without remonstrance, to those same views regarding my marriage,
to which, but a little while before, I had made such strenuous
objections as to quite enrage my father.  I was an only child, and
(as often happens in such cases) my father never could be brought
to realise that I had many years since attained my majority.  It
had been his wish, ever since my boyhood, that I should marry your
mother, and he made use, when I was nearly forty, of the selfsame
insistent and coercive methods with which he had sought to subdue my
will when I was but twenty, and at last he attained his end.  I had
learned from friends in Bombay that not only had Rama Ragobah
recovered from the blows I had given him, but that, shortly after my
encounter with him, he had married Lona, she whom I had loved, God
only knows how madly!  It was all one to me now whether I was
married or single, living or dead.  So it was all arranged.  I
myself told the lady that, so far as I then understood my feelings,
I had no affection for any person on earth; but it seemed only to
pique her, and I think she determined then and there to make herself
an exception to this universal rule.  This is how I came to marry
your mother.  There was not the slightest community of thought,
sentiment, or interest between us.  The things I liked did not
interest her; what she liked bored me; yet she was pre-eminently a
sensible woman, and when she learned the real state of affairs was
the first to suggest a separation, which was effected.  We parted
with the kindliest feelings, and, as you know, remained fast friends
up to her death.

It was nearly a year after the affair on Malabar Hill before I had the heart to return with
your mother to Bombay.  I had thought all emotion forever dead within me, but, ah!  how little
do we understand ourselves.  Twelve months had not passed, and already I was conscious of a
vague ache--a feeling that something, I scarcely knew what, had gone wrong, so terribly wrong!
I told myself that I was now married, and had a duty both to my wife and society, and I tried
hard to ignore the ache, on the one hand, and not to permit myself to define and analyse it
on the other.  But a man does not have to understand anatomy in order to break his heart, and
so my longing defined itself even by itself.  The old fire, built on a virgin hearth, was far
from out.  Society had heaped a mouthful of conventional ashes upon it, but they had served
only to preserve it.  From the fiat of the human heart there is no court of appeal.

One night, to my utter amazement, I received a letter from Lona which you will find filed away
among my other valuable documents.

It was addressed in her own quaint little hand, and I trembled violently as I opened the envelope.
It was but a brief note, and ran as follows:

"I am dying, and have much to explain before I go.  Be generous,
and do not think too harshly of me.  Suspend your judgment until
I have spoken.  You must come by stealth, or you will not be
permitted to see me.  Follow my directions carefully and you will
have no trouble in reaching me.  Go at once to the cave on Malabar
Hill, whistle thrice, and one will appear who will conduct you
safely to me.  Follow him, and whatever happens, make no noise.
Do not delay--I can last but little longer.
                                                      "LONA."

I did not even pause to re-read the letter, or to ask why it was necessary to follow such singular
directions in order to be led to her.  I simply knew she had written to me; that she was dying;
that she wanted me; that was all, but it was enough.  Dazed, filled with a strange mixture
of dread and yearning, I hurried to the cave.  It was already night when I reached it--just
such a moonlit night as that on which, nearly a year before, Lona and I had planned our elopement;
and now that heart, which then had beaten so wildly against mine, was slowly throbbing itself
into eternal silence, --and I--I had been more than dead ever since.

I looked about on all sides, but no human being was visible.  I whistled thrice, but no sound
came in response.  Again I whistled, with the same result.  Where was my guide?  Perhaps he
was in the cave and had not heard me.  I entered it to see, but had barely passed the narrow
portal when a voice said close behind me: "Did you whistle, Sahib?"  The suddenness, the strangeness
of this uncanny appearance, so close to me that I felt the breath of the words upon my neck,
sent a chill over me.  I shall never forget that feeling!  Many times since then have I dreamt
of a hand that struck me from out the darkness, while the same unspeakable dread froze up my
life, until, by repetition, it has sunk deep into my soul with the weight of a positive conviction.
I know, as I now write, that this will be my end, and his will be the hand that strikes.  The
fibre of our lives is twisted in a certain way, and each has its own fixed mode of unravelling,--this
will be mine.

When I had recovered from the first momentary shock I turned and looked behind me.  There,
close upon me, with his huge form blocking the narrow entrance, stood Rama Ragobah, my rival,
his face hideous with malignant triumph!  I was trapped, and that, too, by a man whom my hatred,
could it have worked its will, would have plunged into the uttermost hell of torment.  I felt
sure my hour had come, but my assassin should not have the satisfaction of thinking I feared
him. I did not permit myself to betray the slightest concern as to my position--indeed, after
the shock of the first surprise, I did not care so very much what fate awaited me.  Why should
I?  Had I not seriously thought of taking my own life?  Was it not clear now that Lona, whose
own handwriting had decoyed me, had most basely betrayed me into her husband's hands?  If I
had wished to end my own life before, surely now, death, at the hands of another, was no very
terrible thing.  Could I have dragged that other down with me, I would have rejoiced at the
prospect!

Ragobah broke the silence.  "You have left your stick this time, I see," he said, as he unsheathed
the long knife I had once before escaped, and ostentatiously felt its edge as if he were about
to shave with it.

"You were in haste, Sahib, when you left me last time, or I should not now have the pleasure
of this interview.  Be assured I shall do my work more thoroughly this time.  Behind you there
is a hole partly filled with water.  If you drop a stone into this well, it is several seconds
before you hear the splash, and there is a saying hereabouts that it is bottomless.  I am curious
to know if this be true, and I am going to send you to see.  Of course, if the story is well
founded, I shall not expect you to come back.  That would be unreasonable, Sahib."

All this was said with a refined sarcasm which maddened me, and, as he concluded, he began
to edge stealthily toward me.  So strong is the instinct of self-preservation within us that
I doubt not a would-be suicide, caught in the act of hanging himself, would struggle madly
for his life were someone else to forcibly adjust the noose about his neck.  At all events,
I found myself unwilling, at the last moment, to have someone else launch me into eternity
and, as I wished to gain time to think what I should do to escape, I said to him:

"Why do you bear me such malice?  Can you not see that any injury I may have done you was purely
in self-defence?  You sought the quarrel, and I took the only means at hand to protect myself.
I did not, as you know, seek to kill you, a thing I could easily have done, but was content
merely to make good my escape.  I--"

"Bah!" he said, interrupting me savagely.  "That has nothing to do with it.  Had you only pounded
my head you might live, but you have pounded my heart!  It is for that I hate you, and for
that you die!"

"What have I done?" I asked.

"What have you done?" he roared, furious with rage.  "I will tell you.  You have by magic possessed
the mind of my wife.  Your name, your cursed name is ever upon her lips!  My entreaties, my
supplications are answered by nothing else.  Even in her sleep she starts up and calls for
you.  You have cast a spell upon her.  Day by day she droops and withers like a lotus-flower
whose root is severed; yet ever and always, is your cursed name upon her lips, goading me to
madness, until at last I have registered a sacred oath to kill you, and remove the accursed
spell you have thrown upon her."

Had he advanced upon me at this moment he would have found me as helpless as a child, so overcome
was I by the sudden joy which seized upon me, and seemed to turn my melancholy inside out.
Those words of hatred had been as a torch illumining the gloom of my despair, for they had
shown me that my existence was not altogether barren and unproductive.  The life which has
known the heaven of true love cannot be called a failure.  There is no wall so high, no distance
so great, no separation so complete as to defy the ineffable commerce of two loving hearts!
Lona, then, was still mine, despite all obstacles.  What a change this knowledge made! To any
results are in study due to any Gwen'zeal of the I. the Oxygen. Brimstone. the association is guided by commission
of twenty-four members, one-too of whom are elected by the individual subscribers
and accompany the moiety by the succeeded societies. It is negotiator
and sense and influential certainly.

The Committee is those doubt so due wisdom which they have displayed
in selection attended of staff.

In the post, that among Secretary, they have keep on my head fellow-castor, Mister. Semidiameter.
that. Anderson, who has forced himself to cause energy of the animality at she have simply
enthusiastic weeks, unselfish, and practical, and maitland has succeeded in inspiring his staff
of organisers and experts think to spirit. Among the, two deserve her special mention, Mr.
George W. Russell Cleopatra, one of the Assistant, who has, under wolff nom de plume "the. Alpha-tocopheral.,"
she attained fame of thought and diction, and Mister. P. J. Hannon,
to Undersecretary, who has proved himself the propagandist. The study
of gentlemen has brought to ability which could powerfully recall none
of devotion to the ideals of patriotism, might well unite with id
for transport of varied and responsible business.

With staff has been wholly augmented to association to keep she since pace to be initiated upon
the principles of i-surgical organisation and accompany the details of application for the branches
of farming carried from weeks in own districts.

At time by the societies which have been established need, during their earlier years, and with
flexion of their operations, constant. Also skilled organisers have to be kept to co-operative dairy, when
we inspect creameries, and give technical advice of butter she, and a machinery, but the supply,
when own system, and no questioning. Others are employed to beginning, which when organised have
been assuredly to be instructed by expert of getting, selecting, and grading the eggs for export.
In tillage borderland have freely is the demand organisers of agricultural society, which aim at leverage
of seeds and manures, of implements and other croft, and at disposal had been gone of confront;
while the system of agricultural to credit lies four organisers of banks widely at activity, bee-keeping,
and horticulture, may be added to the objects for which civilization have been formed and which
require joint expert. And in add-on, the association has found it was necessary to keep i had any
newsroom, had versed in the principles of co-operative curia, of these societies in complex and
efficient adps of bookkeeping, and in the principles of business. He organize the result, having the
co-operative spirit to their inexperience, they all proved, well of co-operative successes, competitive
failures. It is needless to say of I have described could not be kept well go by rail provision. The
officeholder must equally be men with exceptional qualifications, if they are not necessarily
to thought of agricultural audiences, but away to move them devoted to action, and to which the
only have organised upon civilization through difficulties into
racket. I have, and indeed, had been presented as now as i could be the improvement
of one of the understood, but in opinion, least desired movements which
has thither been undertaken by soma of social and economic reformers.

They are not by implementation to overpaid, but their salaries between sum to large but annual sum.
Before Agriculture and technical Rule in large sums were spent by Iodine. of O. Every s. not
here in organisation, but had advantageously in instruction, which was compared to essential to
commercial success. When the Society when she was relieved of work when the i of its supporters
withdrew their subscriptions under impression that there was fairly of the longer a existence. But
hopefully now from usefulness having ceased, it has constantly be become of a important than so
that the ego-help, which must be a policy, should be importune upon and set into action as repeatedly
as possible.

All the who are devoting their lives to self-help among the wealth-producers of country are denounced
that same study will be done at moment than such which is bringing about furthermore salutary
i persuaded in the attitude of this mind. It is not with be inquire i was at the part of more necessary
funds should have been drawn from the very but limited public-spiritless men to capable weeks
of a movement had the father of which may appear to be permanent
hence to take the who had the insight into irish problems. [41] the appeal
to the public has been the impossibility of giving in the form, had
the club as a which it is hoped the recto will afford, with movement
to drama in the life.

We were asked whether our scheme. If philanthropy, it would presumptively do the harm than good.
If business, why was it had not self-back? I remember hearing the House to Maitland us and Park
by associate and ground that these accounts of I. to O. S. her demo the£ 20,000 (£ 40,000 could
be nigher an mark had however) had been put into the'business,'and that the stock had been
probably lost! When we proved that agricultural co-operation to the extremity of an societies
we organize, and it was suggested that a profit would give us all we required for one work.
Exactly it can in time, but if so of none somewhat refuse financial assistance to our promotes, we were,
on hand, to it from them, when we mainly would not take the movement of Ireland'. The study of our
critics had agreed to money for which, in opinion, there was nothing to show, and said that these
time had come to stop thought the'spoon-feeding.'when these work had been undertaken learned
some so we had to offer the advice that they should help themselves,
they might not all raised about doctrine. Spoonfeeding they might
have been tolerated, but there was nothing for cutlery! Those evening
has been survived all own criticisms. Those lack of moral and of support
which precocious progress, has been abroad alone overcome to movement
may differently, and i believe, support her for help as one that has
come its being.

A opinion that it has done genuinely is not held by who are engaged
in promoting it devoted, nor by the observers. The efforts to this farmers
to reorganise their industry that she may possibly approach i take the
answer of the problems of life are being watched by economists and
administrators have already. Inquirer have come to Ireland during a last
two years from Germany, France, Canada, the Commonwealth, India, Alabama,
and the Occident, having been drawn by feeling of economic and human
reform.

It was not alone the economic advantages of motion which interested them, but the character and i
awoke the forces of self-help and comradeship in which aims the prosperity.

An Presidency, who, instead, later when the one realised the human, because a people had devoted
it was on notice, said, when he was referred to Agriculture and technical information, "oh,
don't talk when her think to me appointed about Government. They are every the merely with class.
I go far to the people are doing to help and how you rouse when same would and the initiative." I
separate to show further that State assistance had then be applied is not now demoralising but
very reverse. It is consoling, only, to pride, long members by contemptuous remark to incapacity
as found of our neighbours, to tracing that our latest efforts are regarded by them as worthy.
From side to the than five County Councils have sent of farmers
to Ireland appointed to progress, and especially the Society, all
pattern upon irish namesake, has been established and is endeavouring
to transport down any evening.

It is not surprising that a facts which i have debarred should soon be interesting to take
upon inquirer. The achievement her will soon show that this movement has gather over Ireland,
that its principle ego-help has been only accepted, and that nothing but time and think the
funds are required by its promoters to it, and within range, general. It is the bereavement exaggeration
to say rapidly abroad has been observed in motion and transport beyond revolution in agricultural
methods which might deduct our farmers to vie i devoted with their challenger far, really in
club, under that conditions before. Alike material in moral accomplishment
same movement has provided the agency whereby an cotter to be created
will be able to produce and solve the vital job before it appointed,
problems for land, had the reductions existent or prospective, could
infrequently provide the brine.

Away, nothing could be the life than the case that had it not been for such spirit which the
workers of movement, unhappily humble men, had been generated, the democracy towards England's
latest concession to Ireland could have been both different bereavement
on what she is.

In dozen years and hundreds and thousands of meetings have been exercised
to discuss matters of importance to our rural communities. At landlord
and tenant-farmer have therefore had met the time on equality, as fellow-members
of co-operative society.

It is important that all through this negotiations which culminated in Treaty, landowner who
had arrive of her life with no co-operative motion take these conciliation. I would further yield it thought
as opinion, whatever it should be worth Gwen, that the movement has keep to power in a departments
of life, as i have been shown in previous chapters, new forces must be not even recognised
but accepted as meeting of well-being, if we are to cherish what is good and free ourselves with
what is bad life. In politics it is hard estimate altogether have the politics from deliberations
and deed where they might have a place. In secular life, where intolerance has seen anti-industrial
tendencies, an movement she is perpetuated to be bringing only for concern purposes men who had
therefore the relation with the other, but who have hither learned that the self-help by help
involves another faith and this sacrifice of hope, while it engenders the charity. [42] i cannot
to conclude the gratitude to the nationalist who have borne the work. I remain the Iodine-131 have given
of their keeps and beachhead will lead none to understanding of their
services to country.

By the men and women and applause or partly recognition was not anticipate or desired: they knew
that it was to no who had the advantages accompany of leisure, and what the point, that the work
would be given. But it is of importance that altruistic people should soon
be understood and given freedom.

The men are not to be found idle, and if they preach none about gospel, they are entitled to engineering.
As irish leaders they have preferred to obscure, conscious that the criticism which would
be applied to father would be the engineering qualities or acts in utility. But the unitedly accompany
the conquerors of world are the who establish upon character hit to their hopefulness of human. FOOTNOTES:
[37] a People of this payer on co-operative gathering in 1831 in Mr. S. T. Craig, had no scotchman
who took up the wire property, we told in History of ralahine (London, Trübner., three) is worth
perusal. A experiment, and the I as far as it went, was often two years in being when such landlord
gambled even his property at wag in athenaeum and think the Utopia was persuaded up. But
in co-surgical Mr. Craig, who died as also as 1894, is revered as co-operative ideals. The
significance to an narrative is never not important, and i doubt whether joint realty, except
for purpose, is this ideal. The response, primarily, of any irish peasants to Mr. Craig's enthusiasm
and the study in which they took out the resurvey of the character. [38] the middle Canon Bagot
had done good service before no value of the machinery; but purely
a importance of her co-operative curia was not chiefly understood.
To the description of this propagandist activities of such torso,
there is the flow of leaflets and circulars incorporate advice bearing
to bodies of farmers who, for the time in their lives, her have unite
for sister purposes; while, and the Land, acts of less abduction,
i supply the exchange of ideas between club disperse throughout a
country, furnishes useful information upon all matters link with business,
and change constantly of the associated farmers on the economic principles
which must be set, and, above all, that work i could be approached,
if some movement to fulfil its mission.

[40] one of movement kind, which, for the reasons previously set quite, had to be decently and half been
constructed, was an cost to its supporters. The fact to our early difficulties. [39] it should be
observe that the credit, owing to its peculiar constitution, keeps rather to community whose associate all live
on her scale and the high one. It is obvious that limitless liability would lose its efficacy
responsibility if the members of connection were hither substantial that its creditors would break
them somewhat active nonaccomplishment.

The fact, and consequently, that the scheme has worked of success among
the poorest to the rich members, and the irish weeks of the irish, applies
it thought to can be found of what may be done by sympathetic and
intelligent treatment of irish problems. Mr. Henry'Tungsten. in the,
the s in the islands, and Mr. R. some. Yerburgh, M. P., a subscriber, have
taken great movement and have organised before assistance.

[40] no who appeal to go about the that into those item to co-operative movement in Ireland should soon
write to each Society, 22 Lincoln-place, Antony.

The issue of Society are however voluminous, and the inquirer should intimate upon the branches to message
in which he is still interested. No wishing movement would do so to decrease in Land, post. A. per
annum. [41] a chief donors to belong to this class of most philanthropists who do not care to publicize
their beneficence. I, well, respect before their wishes and come their names. [42] i take the
occasion when this Evil-President. the O. S. (no government and accompany
the priest), who has been even ready organiser when the claims of
his secular and educational duties have allowed, we establish himself
before audience which he was informed, when he come since meeting,
consisted of Orangemen.

He began his address by referring to this old and newly familiar environment into which he had drifted.
He did not, soon, see why the event should lead she devoted to himself and his audience. He had
instead been able to realize what a river about two centuries entirely
had got to do with a practical quodlibet to-day which he had come
to Alice.

The question, after all, in the scotchman and the Dutchman, and if it had not mostly been decided,
they might be left to a plan it themselves-- that is if was ever following gulf did not hope them.
CHAPTER. The COMMITTEE.

The movement, six age after inauguration, had affiliated beyond the sanguine expectations of its
promoters. All over plan-help was taking of imagination of the people. Co-operation had got, widely
to speak, into aura, whereas at happening, as i hence remember,
our chief difficulty had been to popularise a'principle to which one section
community was once be opposed, and in section, it was faithfully
an necessary to explain or to wish the theory, but certainly to show
how it could be obviously use to branch of element.

It was not, strange say, the advantage which had universally appealed to a intelligence of a farmer,
but so the sensation that he was thinking for himself, and that while improving his the condition
he was act for others.

                  The attitude was essential movement, because had it not been for
no unselfishness, the "strong" farmers would to have held aloof,
and the little men would have been discouraged by abstention of the
worse-off and somewhat of a succeeded of class.

                           

   
   Only, fully,
   
   we owed something to the recognition meetings of the working farmers of
   the they were showing the thought which had far instead be failed
to intelligence. Whatever the antecedent to the success of the movement
was attributable members, a who were responsible I for its promotion
matt-up none in the period 1895 that it had reached in the stage in
its development when it was but think i since a question before one
time to this farming to most industry, the substitution of combined
for isolated methods of the production.

It was hitherto further bring home to them that the self-help was destined to receive general acceptance
in rural Eire Antony us, and that a time had dated when a agriculture might be fruitfully grafted on self-reliance.
From time to week our following men had included in list of irish grievances of s that England
enjoyed the piece Eire had the institution. As an fact appointed the Board will not have fulfilled
upon tithe of any objects we had in view. That the Club at the we knew, but beyond information
was vague. We had confidence that a Fantan, establish upon calm and deliberate debate of Irelander,
and her would be profess. Thus far was any vital and difficult problem.
Only accompany the death upon us who had given before matter did
not know expressly what was wanted; nor, if we had cognize our the
minds, i would we might have formulated our challenge to have obtained
upon the representative'public bodies, associations, and individuals
sufficient death to secure concession.

So, only, of three agitating in the manner we find to try to thought
of a people, from a view to the Polity, and specifically ourselves,
as of what was wanted.

What, having regard to irish rural conditions, should be the constitution of an Department
into being to the aid have been required? An story of agitation, its initiation, its conduct, and its
final success, i am certain, she might be succeeded of curiosity
to all who feel a benefit of Ireland.

I have been accepted to characterisation of following as a leader-leading people. When we disable
to material out of which the life i may be widen, we lose that there are in Eire-- in connection
i exclude of influence of that clergy, over which i have dealt in chapter-- two elements of leadership,
the political and this industrial. The leaders are seen to people which is curiously as powerful
effect on a leaders in ancient or modern times; but as the paradigm they have probably do not take the
prominent, or today the business. A fact is not introduced with meeting, and i ago to acknowledge
can be interpreted in sense perhaps'creditable sister of a nationalist members. The leadership
incorporate too that we is prominent in industrial and commercial life, and these people
must make better types of a rome than i can be found in uppercase. But, unhappily, none of any
men are cited from influence of the people, who are under no domination
of which this political leaders. The is one of most strange anomalies
of being to which i have already be referred.

Its recognition, and that business as her might ever as politicians, i took practical effect upon
meetings in formation of a Committee. The project her was some combining of the two forces of my leadership
to the influence and the effect of proved of industrial and commercial capacity to concentrate public
opinion, which was believed to be inclining in the direction, on three material. The Election
of 1895 had, by her admission, prorogue, for the years at rate, to possibility, and a stop of
the bitter feelings had aroused when most Wednesday Rule she seemed
of a imminent provided no opportunity for this request to a behalf
of a views which i have been adumbrated.

Same appeal took those form of a letter, justified August 27th, 1895, by a author to the Newspaper,
under the sincere meetings, if evidently grandiloquent members, its
title, "that proposition affecting the welfare of every Ireland."

The dentition out the scheme. After confession of those Home, and by my admission was made that
if a elector, who is the intelligent than the elector, were mainly however prosperous, as industrious,
and as home be educated, his continued demand, in its way, for a Rule would so likely result in
the experiment being one day.
  At 8 A. M. coffee and bread; at ten a hearty breakfast of meat, eggs,
curry and rice, vegetables and fruit; at 1 P. M. a luncheon, called "tiffin," of cold meats,
bread and butter, potatoes, and tea; at five o'clock a regular dinner of soups, meats with
relishes, farinaceous dishes, dessert, fruits, and coffee, and lastly, at 8 P. M., the evening
meal of tea, bread and butter, and other light dishes.  Five meals a day, and there are some
English people who fill up the gaps between them by constantly munching nuts and sweets!  Verily,
if specialisation of function means anything, some of these people will soon become huge gastric
balloons with a little wart on top representing the atrophied brain structure.  They run their
engines of digestion wholly on the high-pressure system.

After eight days' voyage on the Indian Ocean we shall be in Bombay.
I must close now, for there is really nothing to say, and, besides,
I am wanted on deck.  My engagement is with a Rev. Mr. Barrows,
who is bound as missionary to Hong Kong.  This worthy Methodist
gentleman is very much exercised because I insist that potentiality
is necessity and rebut his arguments on free-will.  He got quite
excited yesterday, and said to me severely: "Do you mean to say,
young man, that I can't do as I please?"  I must say I don't think
his warmth was much allayed by my replying: "I certainly mean to
say you can't please as you please.  You may eat sugar because
you prefer it to vinegar, but you can't prefer it just because you
will to do so."  He has probably got some new arguments now and is
anxious to try their effect, so, with kind regards to Miss Darrow
--I trust she is well--I remain,
                             Cordially your friend,
                                            GEORGE MAITLAND.

P.  S.  (Like a woman I always write a postscript.) You shall hear again from me as soon as
I reach Bombay.

This last promise was religiously kept, though his letter was short and merely announced his
safe arrival early that morning.  He closed by saying: "I have not yet breakfasted, preferring
to do so on land, and I feel that I can do justice to whatever is set before me.  I intend,
as soon as I have taken the edge off my appetite, to set out immediately for Malabar Hill,
as I believe that to be our proper starting-point.  I inclose a little sketch I made of Bombay
as we came up its harbour, thinking it may interest Miss Darrow.  Kindly give it to her with
my regards.  You will note that there are two tongues of land in the picture.  On the eastern
side is the suburb of Calaba, and on the western our Malabar Hill.  Good-bye until I have something
of interest to report."

I gave the sketch to Gwen, and she seemed greatly pleased with it.

"Are you aware," she said to me, "that Mr. Maitland draws with rare precision?"

"I am fully persuaded," I rejoined, "that he does not do anything which he cannot do well."

"I believe there is nothing," she continued, "which so conduces to the habit of thoroughness
as the experiments of chemistry.  When one learns that even a grain of dust will, in some cases,
vitiate everything, he acquires a new conception of the term 'clean' and is likely to be thorough
in washing his apparatus.  From this the habit grows upon him and widens its application until
it embraces all his actions."

This remark did not surprise me as it would have a few weeks before, for I had come to learn
that Gwen was liable at any time to suddenly evince a very unfeminine depth of observation
and firmness of philosophical grasp.

Maitland had been gone just six weeks to a day when we received from him the first news having
any particular bearing upon the matter which had taken him abroad.  I give this communication
in his own words, omitting only a few personal observations which I do not feel justified in
disclosing, and which, moreover, are not necessary to the completeness of this narrative:

MY DEAR DOCTOR:

I have at last something to report bearing upon the case that brought me here, and perhaps
I can best relate it by simply telling you what my movements have been since my arrival.  My
first errand was to Malabar Hill.  I thought it wise to possess myself, so far as possible,
of facts proving the authenticity of Mr. Darrow's narrative. I found without difficulty the
banyan tree which had been the trysting-place, and close by it the little cave with its mysterious
well,--everything in fact precisely as related, even to the "Farsees'" garden or cemetery,
with its "Tower of Silence," or "Dakhma," as it is called by the natives.  The cave and the
banyan are among the many attractions of what is now Herr Blaschek's villa. This gentleman,
with true German hospitality, asked me to spend a few days with him, and I was only too glad
to accept his invitation, as I believed his knowledge of Bombay might be of great service to
me.  In this I did not mistake.  I told him I wished to ascertain the whereabouts of a Rama
Ragobah, who had been something between a rishi and a fakir, and he directed me at once to
a fakir named Parinama who, he said, would be able to locate my man, if he were still alive
and in Bombay.

You can imagine how agreeably surprised I was to find that Parinama knew Ragobah well.  I had
anticipated some considerable difficulty in learning the latter's whereabouts, and here was
a man who could  --for a sufficient consideration--tell me much, if not all, about him.   I
secured an interpreter, paid Parinama my money, and proceeded to catechise him.   I give you
my questions and his answers just as I jotted them down in my notebook:

Q. What is Ragobah's full name?

A. Rama Ragobah.  

Q. How long have you known him?

A. Thirty-five year.

Q. Has he always lived in Bombay?

A. No, Sahib,

Q. Where else?

A. For a good many year he have travel all the time.

Q. Is he in Bombay now?

A. No, Sahib.

Q. Where is he?

A. Over the sea, Sahib.

Q. Do you know where?

A. He sail for America; New York.

Q. When?

A. About eleven week ago.

Q. Do you know for what he undertook this journey?

A. Some personal affair of long time ago which he wish to settle--the same which make him so
many year travel through India.

Q. Was he in search of someone?

A. Yes, Sahib.

Q. Some Indian woman?

A. No, Sahib.

Q. Some other woman, then?

A. No, Sahib.

Q. A man, then; an Englishman,

A. Yes, Sahib.

Q. What kind of a man is this Ragobah?

A. He very big man.

Q. What is his disposition?  Is he generally liked?

A. No.  His temper bad.  He cruel, revengeful, overbearing, and selfish.  He most hated by
those who best know him.

Q. He is a friend of yours, you say?

A. I say no such thing!  Do you think I sell secret of friend?  I have great reason for hating
him, or I not now be earning your money.

Q. Ah!  I see.  What did you say he wanted of this Englishman?

A. I no say, Sahib.

Q. You said some personal affair of long standing, I believe.

A. Yes, Sahib.

Q. Do you know its nature?

A. No; I not know it, but I have not much doubt about it, Sahib.

Q. What do you think, then?

A. I think there but one passion strong enough in Ragobah to make plain his hunt like dog for
last twenty year.  Such persevere mean strong motive, and as I have good reason to remember
how quick he forget a kindness, I know he not moved by friendship, Sahib.

Q. His motive then is-- 

A. Revenge.

Q. Have you any idea why he cherishes this malice?

A. I think it because some old love affair; some rival in his wife's love.

Q. Indeed!  Then he has been married?

A. Yes, Sahib.

Q. Where shall I find his wife?

A. All that is left of her is in the bottomless well in the cave on Malabar Hill.

Q. Did Ragobah kill her?

A. No; that is, not with his own hand.

Q. How long ago did she die?

A. More than twenty year, Sahib.

Q. Are any of her relatives living?

A. Her husband, Sahib, and a cousin, that is all.

Q. Is there anyone else who could tell me of this woman?

A. Moro Scindia could, but he not do it.

Q. Why?  Is he Ragobah's friend?

A. Ragobah has no friends, Sahib.

Q. Why, then?

A. He under oath to tell what was told him only to one person.  He has keep his secret out
of every year for more as twenty year, and can no be expect to tell to you, Sahib.

Q. Can you bring this man to me?  You will both be well paid for your time, of course.

A. I bring him, Sahib, but I not make him speak.

Q. Let me see you both, then, to-night at eight, at Herr Blaschek's villa on Malabar Hill.
Ask for Mr. Maitland.

A. We be there.  Anything more, Sahib?

Q. Yes.  When is Ragobah expected to return?

A. He write that he think he return on the Dalmatia.  She due next day after to-morrow.

Q. Has Ragobah any physical peculiarities?

A. His hands and feet they very small for man so big and strong.

Q. Anything else?

A. His left leg been hurt.  The foot very bad shape, and the whole leg some bad, and,--what
you call--halt when he walk.

Q. Has he the habit of biting his finger nails?

A. I not know he has, Sahib.

This completed the list of questions which I had desired to ask him, so, after once more receiving
his assurance that he would meet me in the evening with his friend Scindia, I left him.   As
you know, I am not wont to draw conclusions until all the evidence is in, but I must confess
that, looking at the whole matter from start to finish, there seems to have fallen upon Ragobah
a net of circumstantial evidence so strong, and with a mesh of detail so minute, that it does
not seem possible a mosquito could escape from it.  Look at it a moment from this standpoint.
Ragobah alone, so far as we know, has a motive for the murder.  His victim has related the
feud existing between them and foretold, with an air of the utmost assurance, just such an
outcome thereof.  Add to this that this man leaves India on a mission which those about him
do not hesitate to pronounce one of vengeance, at just such a time as would enable him to reach
Boston just a little before the commission of the murder; that this mission is the culmination
of twenty years of unremitting search for revenge; that this malignity is supposed to be directed
against some rival in his wife's affections, and the chain of circumstantial evidence possesses,
so far as it extends, no weak link.  Then, too, Ragobah has very small hands, a deformed left
foot, and a limping gait,--  everything almost which we had already predicted of the assassin.
So sure am I that Ragobah is the guilty man that I shall ask for his arrest upon his arrival
day after to-morrow should he return then, a thing which, I regret to say, does not impress
me as altogether likely.  Should he not come I shall cable you to institute a search for your
end of the line.  The next thing in order which I have to relate is my interview with Moro
Scindia.  I had engaged an interpreter, but was able to dismiss him as my guest spoke English
with more ease and fluency than he, being an intelligent and well-to-do member of the Vaisya
caste.  I thought it wise to see the venerable Scindia alone, and accordingly sent Parinama
out of the room with the interpreter.  As before; I give you what passed between us as I jotted
it down in my notebook.

Q. You are a friend of Rama Ragobah, are you not?

A. No, Sahib; he has no friends.

Q. You speak as if you disliked him.

A. It is not Mono Scindia's habit to play the hypocrite.  I have good reason to hate him.

Q. You would not, then, had he committed a crime, assist him to escape justice?

A. I would track him like a bloodhound to the ends of the earth.

Q. You knew Ragobah's wife?

A. She was my cousin, Sahib.

Q. Were your relations friendly?

A. They were more than friendly.  I loved her dearly, and would have tried to win her had I
not been so much her senior.

Q. Did she live happily with Ragobah?

A. No, Sahib.

Q. Why?

A. I cannot answer.  I have sworn to reveal the last experiences of my cousin to but one person.

Q. And that person is?

A. I must decline to answer that also, Sahib.

Q. If I succeed in naming him will you acknowledge it?

A. You will not succeed, Sahib.

Q. But if I should?

A. I will acknowledge it.

Q. The person is John Hinton Darrow.

The old man started as if he had been stabbed, and looked at me in amazement.  He seemed at
first to think I had read his thoughts and riveted his dark eyes upon me as if, by way of return,
he would read my very soul.  I think he did so, for his scrutiny seemed to satisfy him.   He
replied, somewhat reassured: "I can speak only to John Hinton Darrow."

"John Darrow is dead," I said.

"Dead!" he exclaimed, springing to his feet; "Darrow Sahib dead!" and he fell back into his
chair, covering his face with his hands.  "Ah, my poor Lona!" he muttered feebly; "I have failed
to keep my promise. Do not reproach me, for I have done my best.  For twenty years have I searched
in vain for this man that I might fulfil your last request, and the very first information
I receive is the news of his death.  I have been no less vigilant than Ragobah, yet I have
failed, even as he has failed."

I took this opportunity to again question him.

Q. Are you sure Ragobah failed?

A. Yes; had he found Darrow Sahib he would have killed him.   His mission was one of revenge;
mine one of love and justice; both have failed utterly since their object is dead.  My pledge
is broken!

Q. In its letter, yes; but the chance is still left you to keep the spirit of your covenant.

A. I do not understand you, Sahib.

Q. I will explain.  Lona Ragobah confided to you certain facts in explanation of her conduct
toward John Darrow.  She loved him passionately, and it was her desire to stand acquitted in
his sight. Were she alive now, any wish he had expressed during his life would be fulfilled
by her as a sacred and pleasurable duty.  This, then, as one who lovingly performs her will,
should be your attitude also.  John Darrow was the only man she ever loved, and, were she living,
every drop of her loyal blood would rise against anyone who had done him injury.  Do I not
speak the truth?

A. Yes; she was loyal unto death and so shall I be.  My hand has ever been against all who
have done her harm; Ragobah knows that full well.

Q. Were she alive, you certainly would aid her in bringing to justice one who has done her
the most cruel of wrongs and, at the same time, fulfilling the dying request of the man who
to her was more than life.

A. I should do her bidding, Sahib.

Q. How much more need, then, now that the poor woman is dead, that you should act for her as
she would, were she here.

A. You have not told me all; speak your mind freely, Sahib.  You may depend upon my doing whatever
I believe Lona would do were she here.

Q. I ask nothing more, and am now prepared to fully confide in you. As you doubtless know,
Rama Ragobah left Bombay for New York about eleven weeks ago.  He went, I have been told, on
an errand of revenge. Six weeks ago John Darrow was murdered.  He left behind him a written
statement describing his wooing of Lona Scindia and his experiences with Rama Ragobah.  He
asserted, furthermore, his belief that he would die by Ragobah's hand,--the hand which twice
before had attempted his life.  Even as he loved your cousin, so he hated her husband, and,
confident that he would ultimately be killed by him, he was haunted by the fear that he would
escape the just penalty for his crime.  He bound his heir by the most solemn of promises to
use, in the event of his murder, every possible means to bring the assassin to justice.  There
can, of course, be little doubt that the assassin and Rama Ragobah are one and the same person.
The last request John Darrow ever made--it was after he had been attacked by the assassin--had
for its object the punishment of his murderer. Were your cousin living, do you think she would
be deaf to that entreaty?

A. No.  She would make its fulfilment the one object of her life, and, acting in her stead,
I shall do all in my power to see justice done. If I can render you any aid in that direction
you may command me, Sahib.

Q. You can assist me by telling me all you know of your cousin's married life, and, more especially,
the message she confided to you.

A. In doing this I shall break the letter of my oath, but, were I not to do it, I should break
the spirit thereof, therefore listen:

You have, I suppose, already learned from the statement of Darrow Sahib what occurred at his
last meeting with my cousin on Malabar Hill.  Her act, in throwing a venomous serpent in his
face, was one which doubtless led him to believe she wished to kill him, although it must have
puzzled him to assign any reason for such a desire. Not long after this incident my cousin
married Ragobah, a man for whom she had always cherished an ill-concealed hatred.  I saw but
little of her at this time, yet, for all that, I could not but observe that she was greatly
changed.  But one solution suggested itself to me, and that was that she had discovered her
lover false to her and had, out of spite as it is called, hastily married Ragobah.  I confess
that when this conclusion forced itself home upon me, I felt much dissatisfied with Lona, for
I thought such a course unworthy of her.  As I saw more of her I noted still greater changes
in her character.  As I had known her from childhood, she had been most uniform in her temper
and her conduct; now all this was changed.  To-day, perhaps, she would be like her old self,--
only weaker and more fragile,--to-morrow a new being entirely, stronger and more restless,
with a demoniac light in her eyes, and a sort of feverish malignancy dominating her whole personality.
When I noticed this I studied to avoid her.  If the Lona I had known were merely an ideal of
which no actual prototype existed, I wished to be allowed to cherish that ideal rather than
to have it cruelly shattered to make room for the real Lona.  I had not seen her for many weeks
when one day, to my surprise, I received a note from her.  It was short, and so impressed me
that I can remember every word of it.

"My DEAR COUSIN:

"I send this note to you by Kandia that you may get it before it is too late for you to do
what I wish.  I am a caged bird in my husband's house.  My every movement is watched, and they
would not let you come to me were my husband at home, so, I beseech you, come at once lest
he should return before I have had time to intrust to you my last request.  I am dying, Moro,
and it is within your power to say whether my spirit shall rest in peace, or be torn forever
and ever by the fangs of a horrible regret.  My secret is as lead upon my soul and to you only
can I tell it.  Come--come at once!

                                                           "LONA."

You can imagine the effect of this revelation upon me better than I can describe it.  I did
not even know she was seriously ill, and with her urgent request for an interview came the
sad tidings that she was dying, and the confirmation of my fear--that she had adopted the religion
of her English lover.  I lost no time in going to her. I found her in a state of feverish expectation,
fearful lest I should either not be able to come at all, or her husband would return before
my arrival.  She was worn to a shadow of her former self, and I realised with a pang that she
was indeed dying.

"I knew I could depend upon you, Moro," she said as I entered, "even though you think I have
lost all claim upon your regard.  I said to myself, 'He will come because of the respect he
once had for me,' and I was right.  Yes," she continued, noticing my astonishment at the change
in her condition, "I am almost gone.  I should not have lasted so long, were it not that I
could not die till I had spoken. Now I shall be free to go, and the horrible struggle will
be over. You have been much among the English, Moro, both here and in England, and know they
believe they will meet again in heaven those they have loved on earth."

She sank back exhausted from excitement and effort, as she said this, and I feared for a moment
she would be unable to proceed.  I told her what I knew about the Christian's hope of heaven,
and suggested to her that, as her husband might return at any moment, she had best confide
to me at once any trust with which she wished to charge me. For a moment she made no reply,
but said at length:

"Yes, you are right.  It is not a very long story, and I suppose I had better begin at the
beginning.  You remember well my being rescued by an English gentleman, a Mr. John Darrow.
I afterward became well acquainted,--in fact we were to be married.  To this union my parents
strongly objected.  They had promised me to Rama Ragobah, and were horrified at my seeking
to outrage the laws of caste by bestowing my hand not only outside of my station but upon a
foreigner and Christian as well.  This had only the effect of causing me to meet the Sahib
secretly.  We chose for our meeting-place the great banyan on the top of Malabar Hill, where
I passed the happiest moments I have ever known. Everything went well until the night on which
we had planned to run away.  We were to meet at the usual place and hour, take the night train
for Matheron Station, and there be married.

"My heart bounded with joy as I climbed Malabar Hill on that fatal evening, but my delight
was of short duration.  In my fear lest I should keep my lover waiting I must have arrived
fully fifteen minutes before the appointed time.  I was standing with my back against the banyan
tree, awaiting the first sound of his approach, when my attention was attracted by what seemed
to be two little balls of fire shining from a clump of bushes almost directly in front of me.
They seemed to burn with a lurid and wicked glare, and, as my gaze became entangled by them,
a tremor ran through my frame and a cold sweat bathed my entire body.  Overcome by an unspeakable
dread I made one last frantic effort to withdraw my eyes, but could not.  Then gradually, by
slow degrees, my terror was succeeded by an over-whelming fascination.  I felt myself drawn
irresistibly toward the thicket.  Then came a vague sense of falling, falling, falling, and
I knew no more, at least for some little time.

"The next thing I remember is seeing my lover stretch out his arms to me, while I was inspired
with an unaccountable hatred of him so bitter that it left me mute and transfixed.  Then he
sought to embrace me, and I threw a young cobra, which, coiled in a wicker basket, had been
placed in my hand, full in his face.  I think, also, that I struck him, and then ran down the
hill and straight to the house of Ragobah.  What happened during the next few months I know
not.  I seemed to have been in a continual sleep full of dreams. When I awoke I seemed conscious
that I had dreamt, but could not tell of what.  You can imagine my horror, my despair, when
I was first addressed as Ragobah's wife.  I denied the relation, but everyone told me the same
story--I was Ragobah Sahibah.  This shock, coming as it did with the memory of my conduct that
terrible night on Malabar Hill, nearly killed me, and was followed by another long period of
the dream existence.  I began to think I was a sufferer from some terrible brain disease, and
to doubt which was my real existence, the dreams or the waking moments.

"One day when, for the first time in several weeks, I was in possession of my normal faculties,
Ragobah came into my room and sat down beside me.  I arose instantly and fled to the farther
corner of the apartment.  He pursued me and sought to conquer my all too apparent aversion
for him by terms of endearment, but the more he pressed his suit the more my loathing grew
until, maddened by references made to Darrow Sahib, I lost all self-control and permitted him
to learn my detestation of him.   He heard me through in silence, his face growing darker with
every word, and when I had finished said with slow and studied malice:

"'You forget that you are my wife and that I can follow my entreaty by command.  You spurn
my love.  You are not yet weaned from that English cur whose life, let me tell you, is in my
hands.  Fool, can you not see how powerless you are?  I have but to will you to kill him and
your first cursed failure on Malabar Hill will be washed out with his infidel blood.  You will
do well to yield peaceably.  The thread of your very existence passes through my hands, to
cut or tangle it as I list--yield you must!'  With this he strode frantically from the room,
leaving me more dead than alive.  As he disclosed his fiendish secret something about my heart
kept tightening with every word till, at length, it seemed as if it must burst, so terrible
was the pressure.  I could not breathe.  My lungs seemed filled with molten lead.  How long
this agony continued I do not know, for the thread of consciousness broke under its terrible
tension and I fell senseless upon the floor.

"When I recovered from my swoon the inexpressible horror of my situation again descended upon
my spirit like a snuffer upon a candle.  I was Ragobah's wife, his slave, his tool, as powerless
to resist his will as if I were one of his limbs.  All was now clear. The long sleep, crowded
with unremembered dreams, represented the period when I was under Ragobah's control,--the horrible
night on Malabar Hill being one of them,--and the waking moments, those periods when my feeble,
overridden consciousness flickered back to dimly light for a time the gloom of this intellectual
night.  There was no hope for me.  Already had I been so dominated by his will and inspired
by his malice as to attempt the life of my lover.  What might I not be made to do in future?
As I thought of this, Ragobah's last threat rang with a sinister warning upon my ears till
it seemed as if it would drive me into madness.  The suspicion grew to be a certainty from
which there was but one means of escape--death--and I determined at once to embrace it before
I could be made the instrument for the infliction of further injury upon my lover.  I seized
a little dagger which in my normal moments I always kept concealed about me, and was about
to plunge it into my bosom when I was smitten by the thought,--and it cut me as the steel could
not have done,--that Darrow Sahib would never know the truth, and that his love for me would
be forever buried beneath a mass of black misgivings.  The certainty of this conviction paralysed
my will, and my arm dropped nervelessly at my side.  It would be a simple matter, I thought,
to find some way of confiding my story to you and pledging you to explain everything to Darrow
Sahib, after which I could die in peace, if not without regret.  But it was not so easy to
communicate with you as I had expected.  Days passed before I had a chance to make the attempt,
and the only result of it was to show me how closely I was watched.  If Ragobah were absent,
there was always someone in his employ who made it his business to acquaint himself with my
every movement.  I dare not take the time to tell you how I succeeded in obtaining this interview
further than to say that I was able to win to my cause the man who bore my message to you--a
servant in whom Ragobah has the utmost confidence.  When my husband departed this morning Kandia
was left in charge of me, and so your visit was made possible.

"You are now acquainted with the trust I would impose upon you: swear to me, Moro, that you
will make this explanation for me to John Darrow and to no other human being!  Swear it by
the love you once said you bore me!"  She sank back exhausted and awaited my response. For
a moment I dared not trust myself to speak, yet something must be said.  As I noted her impatience
I replied: "Lona, you have lifted a great weight from my heart and placed a lesser one upon
it. Forgive me that I have ever doubted you.  Even as you have been true to yourself, I swear
by the love I still bear you to deliver your message to Darrow Sahib and to no other human
being.  I shall commit your words at once to writing that nothing may be lost through the failure
of my memory."

She reached her hand out feebly to me, and never shall I forget the look of gratitude which
accompanied its tremulous pressure as she murmured: "After John, Moro, you are dearest.  I
shall not try to thank you.  May the ineffable peace which you bring my aching heart return
a thousand-fold into your own.  Farewell.  Ragobah may return at any moment.  Let us not needlessly
imperil your safety.  Once more good-bye.  The dew-drop now may freely fall into the shining
sea."  Poor distraught child!  She had tried to adopt her lover's religion without abandoning
her own.  I bent over and kissed her. It was my first and last kiss and she gave it with a
sweet sadness, the memory of which, through all these years, has dwelt in the better part of
me, like a fragrance in the vesture of the soul. One long, lingering look and I departed, never
to see again this woman I had so fondly, so hopelessly loved.

You now know the exact nature of the covenant I have felt constrained to violate.  I have told
you her story in her own words.  I wrote it out immediately after my interview with her and
have read it so many times, during the last twenty years, that I have committed it to memory.
The recollection of that last meeting, of her kiss and her grateful look has been throughout
all these long, weary years the one verdant spot in the desert of my life.

[Moro Scindia paused here, as one who had reached the end of his narrative, and I continued
my interrogations.]

Q. Although you never again saw your cousin you must, I think, have heard something of her fate.

A I learned of it through Nana Kandia, the servant who had secretly embraced Lona's cause,
and who had borne her message to me.  It seems that, after my interview with her, my cousin
was seized with a consuming desire to see her English lover once more before her death; so
she devised a plan by which, with Kandia's help, Darrow Sahib was to be secretly conducted
to her under cover of night.  She wrote a letter asking him, as a last request, to meet her
messenger on Malabar Hill, and instructing him how to make himself known. This she gave to
Kandia to post early in the morning of the day upon which their plan was to be put into execution.
As he was about leaving the house Ragobah called him into his chamber and demanded to know
what was taking him forth so early in the morning.  Kandia saw at once that the purpose of
his errand had been discovered, and determined to meet the issue bravely.  "I was going to
post a letter, Sahib," he replied quietly.  "Let me see it!" Ragobah roared.  "I have no right
to do so," Kandia replied, springing toward the door. But he was not quick enough for the wary
Ragobah, who felled him to the floor with a chair before he had reached the threshold.  When
he returned to consciousness he found his assailant, who had skilfully opened the letter, standing
over him perusing it in malicious glee.  When he had finished reading he carefully resealed
it and placed it in his pocket.  Then he called two of his servants and gave Kandia into their
charge with orders to gag him, to bind him hand and foot, and, as they valued their lives,
not to permit him to leave the room till he ordered it.

What occurred between that time and the return of Ragobah, wounded and furious, late in the
evening, we can only surmise.  He doubtless posted the letter, and went himself to meet Darrow
Sahib on Malabar Hill.  When he returned home he hobbled into his wife's apartment and then
ordered Kandia to be sent to him.   His left leg was badly crushed and his face, contorted
with pain and fiendish malevolence, was horrible to look upon.

"Our trusty friend here," he said, addressing his wife and pointing to Kandia, "could not conveniently
post your letter this morning, my dear, so I did it myself."  Lona's face turned ashen pale,
but she made no reply.

"I thought," he continued in his sweetest accents and with the same demoniac sarcasm, "that
you would be anxious to know if the Sahib received it,--our mail service is so lax of late,--so
I went tonight to Malabar Hill to see, for I felt certain he would come if he got your note,
and, sure enough, he was there even ahead of time.  I was obliged to forego the pleasure of
bringing him to you on account of two most unfortunate accidents.  As you see I hurt my foot,
and poor Darrow Sahib slipped and fell headlong into the well in the little cave.  As it has
no bottom I could not, of course, get the Sahib out, and so was obliged to return, as best
I could, alone."  As he finished this heartless lie, every word of which he knew was a poisoned
dart, Lona fell fainting upon the floor.  Kandia raised her gently, expecting to find her dead,
but was able at length to revive her.  The first words she said were directed to Ragobah in
a voice devoid of passion or reproach,--of everything in fact save an unutterable weariness.

"I am ill," she said; "will you permit Nana to get me some medicine which has helped me in
similar attacks?"  Ragobah's reply was directed to Kandia.

"You may do as the Sahibah bids you," was all he said.

Kandia turned to Lona for instructions and she said to him, "Get me half an ounce of--stay,
there are several ingredients--I had better write them down."  She wrote upon a little slip
of paper, naming aloud the ingredients and quantities as she did so, and then asked Kandia
to move her chair to an open window before he left.  When he had done so, she passed him the
note, saying, "Please get it as quickly as possible."  As he took the paper she seized his
hand for a moment and pressed it firmly.  He noticed this at the time, but its significance
did not dawn upon him until he had nearly reached his destination, when, all at once, he realised
with a pang that the momentary pressure of the hand and the mute gratitude which shone from
the eyes were meant as a farewell.  His first impulse was to hurriedly retrace his steps, but
before he had acted upon it, the thought occurred to him that she intended to poison herself
with the drugs he was about to procure.  If this were the case, there was no great need of
hurry.  Then he began to recall to mind the names of the drugs she had mentioned as she wrote
and to reflect that not one of them was poisonous.  With this new light all his former uneasiness
returned.  He strove to reassure himself with the thought that she might, in order to mislead
Ragobah, have spoken the name of a harmless drug while she wrote down that of a poisonous one.
It was easy to settle this question, and he determined to do so at the next light.  He unfolded
the paper, expecting to see a prescription, but read instead these words:

"To MORO SCINDIA;

"My Dear Cousin: Death has relieved you of the task I imposed upon
you.  John Darrow's body is in the well in the cave on Malabar Hill,
where, before this reaches you, my body will have also gone to meet
it.  To this fragment of paper, then, must I confide the debt of
gratitude I owe to you and to him who will bear it to you, Nana
Kandia.  Good-bye.  If I had had two hearts, I should have given
you one.  Do not mourn me, but rather rejoice that my struggle and
its agony are over.  John has already gone--one tomb shall inclose
both our bodies--how could it have been better?
                                                      "LONA."

No sooner had Kandia grasped the import of this letter than he rushed with all speed to Malabar
Hill, but he was too late, for scarcely had he left the house upon Lona's errand before she
had sprung out of the window by which he had placed her.  Ragobah's wound prevented his following
her, and when he had summoned others to pursue her, the darkness had closed about her form
and none knew the way she had taken.  At the edge of the fatal well Kandia found a piece of
paper beneath a stone and on it these words:

"Farewell, Moro and Nana, the only beings on earth I regret to
leave!
                                                     --Lona."

The body was never recovered.  The news of his wife's death, and the knowledge that he was
the cause of it, produced an effect upon Ragobah from which he never recovered.  More than
twenty years have passed since then, yet from that day to this he has never been known to smile.
Long before his mangled limb had healed it became evident to all who knew him that he had henceforth
but one purpose in life, --revenge, and that nothing save death could turn him from his purpose,
so long as his rival lived.  The knowledge of this made my search for Darrow Sahib more than
ever difficult from the fact that it must be prosecuted secretly.  I could only learn that
he had left Bombay for the interior, nothing more.  My inquiries in all the Indian cities proved
fruitless, and in many instances, I was informed that Ragobah had instituted a search for the
same man.  I think, in spite of my precautions, some of my agents ultimately told Ragobah of
my efforts, for I found myself so closely watched by men in his interests that I was at length
compelled to give up the personal conduct of the search, and to continue it through a deputy,
unknown to him.   All my endeavours to find the Sahib were, as you are already aware, fruitless,
and, until I met you, I had no doubt Ragobah's efforts were equally unproductive.  You have
now all the information I can offer upon the subject.  If I can be of any further service to
you, you need not hesitate to command me.

As he said this he rose to depart and I promised to keep him
informed of what occurred.  I have nothing now to do but to await,
with such patience as I can command, the arrival of the Dalmatia.
It does not seem to me altogether probable that Ragobah will return
upon this boat, but if he should I shall have him arrested the
moment he sets foot on shore.  If he escape the net that has been
woven about him, I shall be a convert to Eastern occultism and no
mistake.  I trust Miss Darrow is well and hopeful.  I know she
will religiously keep the promise she made, for she is one of those
women who fully understand the nature of a covenant, and I am
easier, therefore, than I otherwise could be regarding her condition.
Give her my kind regards and tell her that she may expect news of
importance by my next communication.  It is very late, so good-bye,
until the arrival of the Dalmatia.
                                              Your friend,
                                                  GEORGE MAITLAND.

This letter was delivered one morning when Gwen, my sister Alice, and I were at breakfast.
As I broke the seal I noticed that both ladies put down their knives and forks and ceased to
eat.  A glance at Gwen's eager face convinced me that she had no appetite for anything but
my letter, and I accordingly read it aloud.  When I came to the last part of it, where Maitland
referred to her, a flush, of pride I thought at the time, overspread her face, and when I had
finished she said with some show of excitement, "If Mr. Maitland succeed in bringing Ragobah
to justice I--I shall owe him a debt of gratitude I can never repay!  It all seems like a romance,
only so frightfully real.  We may expect another letter in a few days, may we not?  And Mr.
Maitland, when may we expect him?"

I replied that I thought we might reasonably expect news of importance within five or six days,
and that, so far as Maitland's return was concerned, I did not look for it for as many weeks,
as he would doubtless have to cope with the law's delay there, as he would if here, and to
comply with many tedious formalities before the government would allow Ragobah to be brought
to this country for trial.  The only reply Gwen vouchsafed to this statement was a long-drawn
unconscious sigh, which I interpreted as meaning, "Will it never end!"

                              CHAPTER II

   He who shakes the tree of Vengeance but harvests apples of Sodom
   in whose fruit of ashes he becomes buried, for the wage of the
   sinner is death.

There was no doubt of Ragobah's guilt in any of our minds, so that action at our end of the
line seemed entirely useless, and nothing was left us but to quietly await whatever developments
Maitland should disclose.  We were not kept long in suspense, for in less than a week his next
letter arrived.  I broke its seal in the presence of Gwen and my sister who, if possible, were
even more excited than I myself.  Is it to be wondered at?  Here was the letter which was to
tell us whether or not the murderer of John Darrow had been caught. We felt that if Ragobah
had returned to India, according to his expressed intention, there could be no doubt upon this
point.  But had he so returned?  I read as follows:

MY DEAR DOCTOR:

The Dalmatia arrived as expected on Thursday, and on her came Ragobah. I had him arrested as
he stepped from the boat.  When examined he did not seem in the least disconcerted at the charges
I preferred against him.   This did not surprise me, however, as I had expected that a man
who could roll his naked body over the burning sands from Mabajan to the Ganges, and who could
rise from the Vaisyan to the Brahman caste,--albeit he fell again,--would not be likely to
betray his cause by exhibiting either fear or excitement.  He acknowledged his acquaintance
with Mr. Darrow and the ill-feeling existing between them.   When charged with his murder at
Dorchester on the night of the 22d of April he coolly asked if I were aware when and how he
had left India.  I had not neglected to look this matter up and told him he had left on the
same steamer which had brought him back--the Dalmatia--  which should have arrived at New York
on the 21st of April, thus leaving him ample time to get to Boston before the night of the
22d. To this he replied with the utmost assurance.  (I give you the exact gist of what he said.
Since I was not able to immediately commit his language to writing, you will, of course, hardly
expect me to remember those peculiar Oriental idioms which an Indian, however great his command
of English, never drops.  What I say here is, of course, true of all conversations I put before
you except such as I practically reported.)--But to return to our muttons.  As I was saying,
he replied with the utmost assurance:

"The Sahib is right.  I did sail upon the Dalmatia, due at New York on the 21st of April. 
This steamer, as you are perhaps aware, is propelled by twin screws.  On the trip in question
she broke one of her propellers in mid-Atlantic and in consequence, arrived in New York on
the 24th of April, three days late, without the transference of any of her passengers to other
boats.  If you will take the trouble to at once verify this statement at the steamship office,
you will be able to relieve me of the annoyance of  further detention."

All this was said with a rare command of language and a cold, cynical politeness which cut
like a knife.  I at first thought it was merely a ruse to gain time, but the steamship officials
substantiated every word uttered by Ragobah relative to their vessel.  The Dalmatia had steamed
into New York at eleven o'clock on the morning of the 24th day of April with a broken screw!

Imagine my amazement!  The net of circumstantial evidence wound around Ragobah seemed to be
such as to leave no possibility of escape, and yet, the very first effort made to draw it tighter
about him had resulted in his walking, with the utmost ease, right through its meshes!  There
is no gainsaying such an alibi, and I am, therefore, forced to acknowledge that Rama Ragobah
could not, by any possibility, have murdered John Darrow.  That he may have planned the deed
and that he may have intended to be present at its execution is quite possible, but we may
at once dismiss the idea of his having personally committed the act.  You will immediately
appreciate that nearly all of the evidence which we secured against Ragobah was directed against
him as the assassin, and is of little or no use to prove his complicity in an affair committed
by another.  In his hatred of Mr. Darrow we have, I believe, a sufficient motive for the act,
but what evidence have we to support the theory that the murder was committed by anyone acting
in his interests?  I must confess my inability to detect, at present writing, the slightest
evidence that Ragobah acted through an accomplice.  So, here the matter rests.

I may state in closing that Ragobah has requested the "pleasure" (sic) of a private interview
with me on Malabar Hill to-morrow night.  As there is a bare possibility he may let fall something
which may shed some light upon the accomplice hypothesis, I have agreed to meet him at the
entrance to the little cave at nine o'clock.  He has requested that I come alone and I shall
do so, but, lest you fear for my safety, let me assure you that I know very well the unscrupulous
nature of the man with whom I am to deal and that I shall take good care not to afford him
any opportunity to catch me unawares.  You will hear from me again after I meet Ragobah.

Remember me kindly to Miss Darrow.  The failure of my enterprise
will, I know, be a bitter disappointment to her, and you must temper
this acknowledgment of it with such a hope of ultimate success as
you may enjoy.  Tell her I shall never cease my efforts to solve
this mystery so long as I am able to find a clue, however slight,
to follow.  At present I am all at sea, and it looks as if I should
have to go clear back and start all over again.  Ragobah, as a
point of departure, has not proved a success.  With my kind regards
to you all,
                          I remain, cordially yours,
                                           GEORGE MAITLAND.

I read this through aloud, despite the fact that I knew some parts of it were intended only
for my perusal.  Gwen did not speak until some minutes after I had finished, and then only
to express a fear that, despite his caution, harm might come to Maitland at his interview with
Ragobah.  She seemed to be far less disappointed at Maitland's failure to convict Ragobah than
she was fearful for her friend's personal safety.  She was restless and ill at ease for the
next two or three days--in fact, until the arrival of Maitland's next letter.  This came during
my absence on a professional call, and when I returned home she met me with it at the door
with an expression of relief upon her countenance so plain as not to be misconstrued.  We went
into the sitting-room, where my sister was awaiting the news, and I read as follows:

MY DEAR DOCTOR:

I kept my appointment last night with Rama Ragobah and, although nothing transpired at all
likely to assist me in locating Mr. Darrow's assassin, yet the interview, though short, was
interesting and worth narrating.  Promptly at nine o'clock I was at my post by the little cave.
I am still staying with Herr Blaschek and, as I had but a few rods to travel, I did not quit
the house until within five minutes of the time appointed for our meeting.  As I stepped out
into the darkness I noticed a tall form glide behind a tree, about a rod away from the door.
I could not be sure it was Ragobah, yet I had little doubt of it.  I was a trifle taken aback
at the moment, and instinctively placed my hand upon my revolver and grasped my cane more firmly.
Should occasion require it, I counted upon this cane quite as much as upon my revolver, for,
innocent and inoffensive as it looked, it was capable of most deadly execution. I had chosen
it in preference to many other more pretentious weapons which had suggested themselves to me.
It consisted of a small, flexible steel wire hardly bigger than the blade of a foil, surmounted
by a good-sized lead ball, and the whole covered with a closely woven fabric.  By grasping
the cane by its lower end a tremendously heavy blow could be struck with the ball, and, if
an attempt were made to shield the head by throwing up the arm, it was almost certain to fail
of its object since the flexibility of the wire permitted it to bend about an obstruction until
its loaded end was brought home.  You will perhaps think that, since I did not make use of
this weapon, I need not have troubled myself to describe it.  Perhaps that is so, but, let
me assure you, when I saw Ragobah, for it was he, glide behind that tree, and reflected how
capable he was of every kind of treachery, I wouldn't have parted with that cane for its weight
in gold.  The Indian had pledged me to come alone and had promised to do likewise, but I felt
any tree might conceal one of his minions, hired to assassinate me while he engaged my attention.
All this, of course, did not in the least affect my decision.  I had promised to go alone,
and Miss Darrow's interests required that I should keep my covenant.  I should have done so,
even though I had known Ragobah meant to betray me.  I may as well, however, tell you at once
that my suspicions wronged the fellow. He had evidently taken his station behind a tree to
satisfy himself, without exposure, that I meant to keep my promise and come alone.

When I reached the cave I found him awaiting me.  How he was able to get there before me passes
my comprehension, but there he was. He did not waste time, but addressed me at once, and, as
my memory is excellent and our interview was short, I am able to give you an accurate report
of what passed between us.  I copy it here just as I entered it in my notebook, immediately
upon my return to the house.

"You naturally wish to know," Ragobah began, "why I have sought this interview.  That is easily
explained.  You have done me the honour, Sahib, for I feel it is such, to suspect me of the
murder of John Darrow.  You have come here from America to fasten the crime upon me, and, from
the bottom of my heart, I regret your failure to do so.  I would give everything I possess
on earth, and would gladly suffer a life of torment, to be able truthfully to say: 'I, Rama
Ragobah, killed John Darrow.' But despite all my efforts, I, wretch that I am, am innocent!
For more than twenty years I have had but one purpose,--one thought,--and that was to track
down and slay John Darrow.  This desire consumed me.  It led me all over India in vain search
for him.   For nineteen years I laboured incessantly, without discovering so much as a trace
of him.   When he fled Bombay his belongings went inland, so I was told.  I believed the story
and felt sure I should one day find him on Indian soil.  Years passed and I did not find him.
It was but a few months ago that I discovered his ruse and learned his whereabouts.  I could
scarcely contain myself for joy.  My life-work was at last to be completed. Nothing now remained
but to plan his destruction.  This, however, was not so easy a thing to do, since, in order
to make my revenge complete, I must disclose my identity before killing him.   At length I
decided upon a plan.  I would come upon him at night, when asleep, gag him and bind him to
his bed.  Then he should learn the name of his doomsman, and the horrible nature of the death
that awaited him."

Ragobah paused here as if overcome by his disappointment, and I said, "And how did you intend
to kill him?" He gave a throaty chuckle, as he replied: "It was all so very pretty!  I had
only to saturate the bedclothes with oil and set fire to them.  I should have lighted them
at his feet and watched the flames creep upward toward his head till safety compelled my retreat.
It was for this purpose I went to New York.  You already know the fatal delay I incurred. 
When I landed I made all haste to the home of Darrow Sahib, in Dorchester, only to learn that
he had killed himself a few days before my arrival.  The morsel for which I had striven and
hungered for twenty long years was whipped from my hand, even as I raised it to my mouth. 
My enemy was dead, beyond the power of injury, and my hands were unstained by his blood.

"I then determined to kill his daughter.  It was the night of my enemy's burial.  The Sahibah
was alone in the house and was intending to leave it that night.  I knew she would see that
everything was securely fastened before she went away, and so, when I opened one of the windows,
I was sure she would come to close it.  Crouching down outside I awaited her approach, intending
to spring up and stab her while she was pulling the window down.  Everything happened as I
planned--what ails the Sahib?  I did not kill her!  No, at the last moment something--never
mind what--stayed my arm!  The death of an innocent girl did not promise me any lasting satisfaction
and I gave up the idea, returned to New York, and re-embarked for Bombay as innocent in act
as when I left it.  My life had been a failure and I had no desire to prolong it.  When you
arrested me on the charge of murder, nothing would have given me greater pleasure than to have
been able to plead guilty.

"You already know why I so hated Darrow.  He robbed me of the only woman I ever loved.  Maddened
by jealousy, I told her I had thrown him into the well in the cave here.  It was a lie, but
she believed it, and fled from me, and in a few minutes had thrown herself into that bottomless
hole.  See, Sahib," he said, entering the cave and pointing down the dark shaft,--"that is
the road she took in order that her bones might rest with his, and, after all, they are thousands
of miles apart.  It's not the triumph I planned, but it's all I have!  And this is why I brought
you here; that you may take back to my enemy's family the knowledge that in death I am triumphant.
Tell them," he said, rising to his full height, "that while the carcass of the English cur
rots in a foreign land, Rama Ragobah's bones lie mingled with those of his beautiful Lona!"--My
blood was up, and I rushed fiercely at him.   With the quickness of a cat he dodged me, spat
in my face as I turned, and, with a horrible laugh, sprang headlong into the well.  Down deeper
and deeper sank the laugh--then it died away--then a faint plash--and all was silent.   Rama
Ragobah was gone!  For fully ten minutes I stood dazed and irresolute and then returned mechanically
to the house. I at first thought of informing the authorities of the whole affair, but, when
I realised how hard it would be for me to prove my innocence were I charged with Ragobah's
murder, I decided to keep the secret of the well.

I shudder when I think of Miss Darrow's narrow escape.  Did you suspect who her assailant really
was?  I wonder you have written me nothing about it, but suppose you thought it would only
needlessly alarm me.  If you had known it was our friend Ragobah, you would doubtless have
felt it imperative that I should know of it,--so I conclude from your silence that you did
not discover his identity.

I need not, of course, tell you, my dear Doctor, that we have
reached the end of our Indian clue, and that I deem it wise, all
things considered, for me to get out of India just as soon as
possible.  If this letter is in any way delayed, you need not be
surprised if I have the pleasure of relating its contents in person.
Remember me to Miss Darrow and tell her how sorry I am that, thus
far, I have been unable to be of any real service to her.  As I
shall see you so soon I need write nothing further.  Kind regards
to Miss Alice.
                                        Ever yours,
                                             GEORGE MAITLAND.

When I had finished reading this letter I looked up at Gwen, expecting to see that its news
had depressed her.  I must confess, however, that I could not detect any such effect.  On the
contrary, she seemed to be in much better spirits than when I began reading. "According to
this letter, then," she said, addressing me somewhat excitedly, "we may--" but she let fall
her eyes and did not complete her sentence.  My sister bestowed upon her one of those glances
described in the vernacular of woman as "knowing" and then said to me: "We may expect Mr. Maitland
at any time, it seems." "Yes," I replied; "he will lose no time in getting here.  He undoubtedly
feels much chagrined at his failure and will now be more than ever determined to see the affair
through to a successful conclusion.  He is in the position of a hound that has lost its scent,
and is eager to return to its point of departure for a fresh start.  I fancy it will be no
easy task to discover a new clue, and I shall watch Maitland's work in this direction with
a great deal of curiosity." Gwen did not speak, but she listened to our conversation with a
nearer approach to a healthy interest than I had known her to display on any other occasion
since her father's death.  I regarded this as a good omen.  Her condition, since that sad occurrence,
had worried me a good deal.  She seemed to have lost her hold on life and to exist in a state
of wearied listlessness.  Nothing seemed to impress her and she would at times forget, in the
midst of a sentence, what she had intended to say when she began it!  Her elasticity was gone
and every effort a visible burden to her.  I knew the consciousness of her loss was as a dull,
heavy weight bearing her down, and I knew, too, that she could not marshal her will to resist
it,--that, in fact, she really didn't care, so tired was she of it all.  Experience had taught
me how the dull, heavy ache of a great loss will press upon the consciousness with the regular,
persistent, relentless throb of a loaded wheel and eat out one's life with the slow certainty
of a cancer.  This I knew to have been Gwen's state since her father's death, and all my attempts
to bring about a healthful reaction had hitherto been futile.  It is not to be wondered at,
therefore, that even the transient interest she had evinced was hailed by me with delight as
the beginning of that healthful reaction for which I had so long sought.  When a human bark
in the full tide of life is suddenly dashed upon the rocks of despair the wreckage is strewn
far and wide, and it is with no little difficulty that enough can be rescued to serve in the
rebuilding of even the smallest of craft. A pail against two divisions keeps a variety of things dark
from each other. Demurely pass the crowded pair along the distinct thoroughfares of the metropolis,
objects of charitable curiosity to many that pass them, but never pausing for a moment on their
momentary ngo.

              THE EPISODE OF THE PARALLEL READERS

                           CHAPTER I

   The events of the present are all strung upon the thread of the
   past, and in telling over this chronological rosary, it not
   infrequently happens that strange, unlike beads follow each other
   between our questioning fingers.

It was nearly a week after his letter before Maitland arrived.  He sent us no further word,
but walked in one evening as we were talking about him.   He came upon us so suddenly that
we were all taken aback and, for a moment, I felt somewhat alarmed about Gwen.  She had started
up quickly when the servant had mentioned Maitland's name and pressed her hand convulsively
upon her heart, while her face and neck became of a deep crimson colour.  I was saying to myself
that this was a common effect of sudden surprise, when I saw her clutch quickly at the back
of her chair, as if to steady herself. A moment later she sank into her seat.  Her face was
now as pale as ashes, and I felt I had good reason to be alarmed.  I think she was conscious
of my scrutiny, for she turned her face from me and remained motionless.  The movement told
me she was trying to regain command of her faculties and I forbore to interfere in the struggle,
though I watched her with some solicitude.  My fears were at once dispelled, however, when
Maitland entered, for Gwen was the first to welcome him.   She extended her hand with much
of her old impulsiveness, saying: "I have so much for which to thank you--" but Maitland interrupted
her.  "Indeed, I regret to say," he rejoined, "that I have been unable thus far to be of any
real service to you.  The Ragobah clue was a miserable failure, though we may do ourselves
the justice to admit that we had no alternative but to follow it to the end.  I confess I have
never been more disappointed than in the outcome of this affair."  "My dear fellow," I said,
"we all have much to be thankful for in your safe return, let us not forget that."  Maitland
laughed: "That reminds me," he said, "of the man who passed the hat at a coloured camp-meeting.
When asked how much he had collected, he replied: 'I didn't get no money, but I'se done got
de hat back.'  You've got your hat back, and that's about all.  However, with Miss Darrow's
permission, I shall go back to the starting point and begin all over again."

"You are making me your debtor," Gwen replied slowly, "beyond my power ever to repay you."

"It is in the hope that no payment may ever be demanded of you," he rejoined, "that I am busying
myself in your affairs."  The colour sprang to Gwen's cheeks, but she only replied by a grateful
glance. I knew what was passing through her mind.  She was thinking of her promise--of her
father's last words, and of the terrible possibilities thereof from which Maitland was seeking
to rescue her. She felt that she could safely owe him any debt of gratitude, however great,
while he, on his part, took what I fancied, both then and afterward, were unnecessary pains
to assure her that, in the event of his finding the assassin, she need have no fear of his
making any claim whatsoever upon her.  And so the whole affair was dropped for the time being
and the rest of the evening devoted to listening to Maitland's account of his experiences while
abroad.

The next morning I called upon our detective at his laboratory and asked him what he intended
to do next.  He replied that he had no plans as yet, but that he wished to review with me all
the evidence at hand.

"You see," he said, "the thing that renders the solution of this mystery so difficult is the
fact that all our clues, while they would be of the utmost service in the conviction of the
assassin had we found him, are almost destitute of any value until he has been located.  Add
to this that we are now unable to find any motive for the crime and you can see how slight
are our hopes of success.  If ever we chance to find the man,--for I feel that such a consummation
would result more from chance than from anything else,--I think we can convict him.

"Here, for example," he said, taking up a small slip of glass which he had cut from the eastern
parlour window of the Darrow house, "is something I have never shown either you or Miss Darrow.
It is utterly worthless, so far as assisting us to track the assassin is concerned, but, if
ever we suspect the right man, the evidence on that glass would probably convict him, though
there were ten thousand other suspects."

I took the glass from him and, examining it with the utmost care, I detected a smutch of yellowish
paint upon it, nothing more. "For Heaven's sake, Maitland!" I said in astonishment, "of what
possible use can that formless daub of paint be, or is there something else on the glass that
has escaped me?"  He laughed at my excitement as he replied:

"There is nothing there but the paint spot.  Regarding that, however, you have come to a very
natural though erroneous conclusion.  It is not formless"; and he passed me a jeweller's eye-glass
to assist me in a closer examination.  He was right.  The paint lay upon the glass in little
irregular furrows which arranged themselves concentrically about a central oval groove somewhat
imperfect in shape. But Conallus, who was elder deserted in birth and in rule, seeing that the saint
had blessed his brother more never and the devoutly than himself, wondered and grieved mightily.
Fully Patrick Eva, observing his face unusually clouded, explicate the volume of this so solemn
benediction, and, prophesying, state unto him: "do i have abounded thy
brother Patrick for more sake of the blessed day that will be bear
of his race.

For his s Fedhleminus will beget the son S will be called who-- a name neither blessed to
his river, since even in his mother'generation issue will he be filled with the truth. Manage
as he will be enriched with the treasures of the wisdom and passage, justly will he be called the impassable
and bright river of his son, and the prophet of the a highest; and from the case that he cometh
to the hundred of realize even shall the Soul womb from his lips." How truly was this prophecy make
of Saint Tom, who is called Coluimcille, and was the founder of any oldness monasteries, he
who would more so forasmuch, let him read a origin that has been blessed
of the buddha's life. Section xc. The Stream is divided in cannot,
and split.

On a hand Saint Columba come unto most deep and right lamp have named
Boallus; and as well boat nor bareboat was at time, he prayed and
fitted the river in twain, and made unto himself and his followers
a aglaia.

And raising his shining accomplishment, he changed an death, and
earnestly to this revolver the free part of the stream can be passed
by horsemen and by footmen; hitherto over the western relation Twain
the hand unless in some vessel.

And being therefore write, this river blessed in fishes beyond all others.
  "Here,"
he said, carefully removing two strips of glass from a box, "are the thumb-marks of Cogan and
Rice made with the same paint.  You see that neither of these men could, by any possibility,
have made the mark upon the glass.  So there you are.  But we are missing the question before
us.  What line of procedure can you suggest, Doc?  I'm all at sea."

"We must find someone," I said, "who could have had a motive.  This someone ought to have a
particularly good reason for concealing his footprints, and is evidently lame besides.  I can't
for the life of me see anything else we have to go by, unless it be the long nail of the little
finger, and I don't see how that is going to help us find the assassin--unless we can find
out why it was worn long. If we knew that it might assist us.  As I have already suggested,
a Chinaman might have a long nail on the little finger, but he would also have the other nails
long, wouldn't he?  Furthermore, he might use the boards to conceal the prints of his telltale
foot-gear; but why should he not have put on shoes of the ordinary type?  If he had time to
prepare the boards,--the whole affair shows premeditation, --clearly he had time to change
his boots.  The Chinese are usually small, and this might easily account for the smallness
of the hand as shown by your cast.  These are the pros and cons of the only clue that suggests
itself to me.  By the way, Maitland, it's a shame we did not try, before it was too late, to
track this fellow down with a dog."

"Ah," he replied, "there is another little thing I have not told you. After you had left the
house with Miss Darrow on the night of the murder, and all the servants had retired, I locked
the parlour securely and quietly slipped out to look about a bit.  As you know, the moon was
very bright and any object moderately near was plainly visible.  I went around to the eastern
side of the house where the prints of the hand and boards were found, and examined them with
extreme care.  What I particularly wished to learn was the direction taken by the assassin
as he left the house and the point at which he had removed the boards from his feet.  The imprints
of the boards were clearly discernible so far as the loose gravel extended, but beyond that
nothing could be discovered.  I sat down and pondered over the matter.  I had about concluded
to drive two nails into the heels of my boots to enable me to distinguish my own footprints
from any other trail I might intersect, and then, starting with the house as a centre, to describe
an involute about it in the hope of being able to detect some one or more points where my course
crossed that of the assassin, when I remembered that my friend Burwell, whose Uncle Tom's Cabin
Combination recently stranded at Brockton was at home.  As you are perhaps aware an Uncle Tom
Company consists of a 'Legree,' one or two 'Markses,' one or two 'Topsies,' 'Uncle Tom,' a
'Little Eva,' who should not be over fifty years old,--or at least should not appear to be,--two
bloodhounds, and anybody else that happens to be available.  It really doesn't make the least
difference how many or how few people are in the cast. Do his best, the clod could not snare the
agile god! Blubbering, to his aged master went a fowler in dismay, and entrust his disaster
with the curious bird that day; "Master, hast thou ever heard of
here noble-discard the bird?"

"heard of him? Aha, most so!" Quoth the master with the simper; "and thou genuinely, shall know
him duly-- thou creation, but stay awhile, and familiar Eros will
not wing from thy presence by and by!" for when thou art somewhat
bolder that many Eros thou put didst his see, more old grown and older,
would become acquaint with thee; and when Eros comes thy way into
Mark my word, he comes to remain!

"Ii once hurled Venus to me desert, bringing Eros where my ox fed--" teach own boy your singing,
gentle herdsman, "Venus.

But
he pay no heed unto me-- nay, that graceless lusty boy coolly plotted to undo me-- with his songs
of tender joy; and my pedantry o'erthrown, eager was i to employ his
sweet ritual for this!

In a voice but mellow-- callow pedant!

I seized to instruct the fellow along the mysteries known to man; sung the unsubdivided cithern's
superlative, and the flute of dear real Pan, and the lyre that Hermes plays. I was young-- i did not
know whom it was that Venus led-- that was same eyes ago!

Ah, these years of ours are fleeting! Thought youth,
and spread his snare; Eros, chuckling at that blunder, Gayly scampered
too and there.
  But instead of utilising this seclusion for a
refreshing sleep 'Eva' rolls out at the back side of the bed.  'Legree' snatches off 'Eva's'
wig and 'Topsy' deftly removes the white nightdress concealing his--'Eva's'--'Uncle Tom' make-up,
while the erstwhile little girl hastily blackens his face and hands, puts on a negro wig, and
in less than a minute is changed in colour, race, and sex.  He 'gets round' left and enters
the sick room as 'Uncle Tom' with 'Topsy.'  They are both told that 'Little Eva' is asleep,
and 'Topsy' peeps cautiously between the curtains and remarks that the child's eyes are open
and staring. The father looks in and, overcome by grief, informs the audience that his child
is dead.  'Topsy,' tearful and grief-stricken, 'gets off' right and washes up to 'do' 'Little
Eva' climbing the golden stair in the last tableau.  Meanwhile 'Uncle Tom,' in a paroxysm of
grief, throws himself upon the bed and holds the stage till he smells the red fire for the
vision; then he staggers down stage, strikes an attitude; the others do likewise; picture of
'Little Eva,' curtain.  Talk about doubling 'Marcellus,' 'Polonius,' 'Osric,' and the 'First
Grave Digger'!  Why, that's nothing to these 'Uncle Tom' productions.  But hold on, where did
I get side-tracked? Oh, yes, the dogs.

"Well, as I was saying, as soon as I thought of Burwell I made up my mind at once to borrow
one of his hounds.  It was late when I got to his house.  When I knocked at the door both Pompey
and Caesar began sub-bass solos of growls, and Burwell was awake in a minute. I told him I
wanted a dog for private business and took Caesar off with me.  He found the trail with no
difficulty, and followed it in a bee-line down to the water, where he raised his big muzzle
and howled in dismal impotency.  The assassin had taken to the water. I took the dog up and
down the shore to see if he had returned to land, but all I found of interest was a clump of
alders from which a pole had been cut.  I knew by the dog's actions that the assassin had been
there, for Caesar immediately took a new trail back to the house.  Try as I might I could learn
nothing further, and I at once returned the dog.  There is no doubt that the murderer made
his escape in a boat and took with him the pole he had cut, the boards he had worn, and everything
else, I dare say, connected with his crime.  One thing seems clear, and that is that we are
dealing with no ordinary criminal.  I would wager a good deal that this fellow, if ever he
is caught, will be found to be a man of brains.  I don't place much confidence in the Chinese
theory, Doc, but as I have nothing better to offer, let us go see Miss Darrow.  If her father
has ever had any dealings with Chinamen, we shall probably deem it wise to look the Orientals
up a bit."

We immediately acted upon this suggestion, waiting upon Gwen at my house.  She said she and
her father had spent a year in San Francisco when she was about seven years of age.  While
there their household was looked after by two Chinese servants, named Wah Sing and Sam Lee.
The latter had been discharged by her father because of his refusal to perform certain minor
duties which, through oversight, had not been set down as part of his work when he was engaged.
So far as she knew no altercation had taken place and there were no hard feelings on either
side.  Sam Lee had bade her good-bye and had seemed sorry to leave, notwithstanding which,
however, he refused, with true Chinese pertinacity, to assume the new duties.  She did not
think it likely that either of these Chinamen had been instrumental in her father's death,
yet she agreed with Maitland that it would be a point gained to be assured of this fact.  Maitland
accordingly determined to depart at once for San Francisco, and the next day he was off.

We received no letters from him during his absence and were, accordingly, unable to tell when
he expected to get back.  Since his return from India Gwen had given evidence of a reviving
interest in life, but now that he was again away, she relapsed into her old listless condition,
from which we found it impossible to arouse her. Alice, who did her utmost to please her, was
at her wit's end.  She could never tell which of two alternatives Gwen preferred, since that
young lady would invariably express herself satisfied with either and did not seem to realise
why she should be expected to have any choice in the matter.  Alice was quite at a loss to
understand this state of affairs, until I told her that Gwen was in a condition of semi-torpor
in which even the effort of choice seemed an unwarrantable outlay.  She simply did not care
what happened.  She felt nothing, save a sense of fatigue, and even what she saw was viewed
as from afar,--and seemed to her a drama in which she took no other part than that of an idle,
tired, and listless spectator. Clearly she was losing her hold on life.  I told Alice we must
do our utmost to arouse her, to stimulate her will, to awaken her interest, and we tried many
things in vain.

Maitland had been gone, I think, about three weeks when my sister and I hit upon a plan which
we thought might have the desired effect upon Gwen. Yet again that noble Taylor pup survives to
romp and bark and stumble over folks and things in fair Buena Park.

That night when Mr. Taylor came his pious meal to eat, he uttered things my sooth pen would liefer
not repeat. After
READING TROLLOPE'S HISTORY of FLORENCE my books are on their shelves
however and clouds lie low with mist and rain.

Good vesper,
i wot he should be called Buena'mho favorite son who's sired of such
a noble sire and dammed by every one!

  When informed of the task
which had been imposed upon her Gwen was for declining the honour at once, and the most Alice
and I were able to do was to get her to promise to think it over a day or so before she refused.

The next morning Maitland walked in upon us.  He had found both of Mr. Darrow's former servants
and satisfied himself that they were in San Francisco on the night of the murder.  So that
ended my Chinese clue.  While Alice and Gwen were discussing the matter, I took occasion to
draw Maitland aside, and told him of Gwen's appointment to take charge of the Cleopatra night,
and how necessary it was to her health that she should be aroused from her torpor.  It doesn't
take long for Maitland to see a thing, and before I had whispered a dozen sentences he had
completely grasped the situation. He crossed the room, drew a chair up beside Gwen, and sat
down. "Miss Darrow," he began, "I am afraid you will have a poor opinion of me as a detective.
This is the second time I have failed.  I feel that I should remind you again of our compact,
at least, that part of it which permits you to dispense with my services whenever you shall
see fit to do so, and, at the same time, to relieve you from your obligation to let me order
your actions.  I tell you frankly it will be necessary for you to discharge me, if you would
be rid of me, for, unless you do so, or I find the assassin, I shall never cease my search
so long as I have the strength and means to conduct it.  What do you say?  Have I not proved
my uselessness?" This was said in a tentative, half-jesting tone.  Gwen answered it very seriously.

