At the next report of a shell I ran toward the lime house, but some one tripped me up, and,
by the time I had got to my feet again, twelve or thirteen others were crowded into it. Another
negro and I reached the doorway, but we were not more than there before a mortar shell came
crushing down upon the little lime house, and all within were so mangled that their bodies
were not recognizable.

Only we two were saved. My companion had one of his legs broken, and a piece of shell had wounded
me over my right eye and cut open my under lip. At the moment I was wounded I was not unconscious,
but I did not know what had hurt me. I became almost blind from the effect of my wounds, but
not directly after I was wounded, and I felt no pain for a day or so. With other wounded I
was taken to the bombproof in the fort. I shall never forget this first and last visit to the
hospital department. To witness the rough handling of the wounded patients, to see them thrown
on a table as one would a piece of beef, and to see the doctor use his knife and saw, cutting
off a leg, or arm, and sometimes both, with as much indifference as if he were simply cutting
up beef, and to hear the doctor say, of almost every other one of these victims, after a leg
or an arm was amputated, "Put that fellow in his box," meaning his coffin, was an awful experience.
After the surgeon had asked to whom I belonged, he dressed my wounds.

My readers will remember that I stated that no big boat could run to Fort Sumter at that time,
on account of the bombardment. We had to be conveyed back to John's Island wharf in rowboats,
which was the nearest distance a steamer could go to Fort Sumter.

As one of those rowboats was pushed out to take the dead and wounded from the fort, and as
the for men were put into the boat, which was generally done before they put in the latter,
fortunately, just before the wounded were put in, a Parrott shell was fired into it from Fort
Wagner by the Union forces, which sunk both the boat and the coffins, with their remains.

My readers would ask how the Confederates disposed of the negroes who were killed in Fort Sumter.
Those who were not too badly mutilated were sent over to the city of Charleston and were buried
in a place which was set apart to bury the negroes. But others, who were so badly cut up by
shells, were put into boxes, with pieces of iron in them, and carried out a little away from
Sumter and thrown overboard.

I was then taken to John's Island wharf, and from there to the city of Charleston in a steamer,
and carried to Doctor Rag's hospital, where I stopped until September. Then I was sent back
home to my master's plantation. Quoting the exact words of Major John Johnson, a Confederate
officer under whom I was a part of the time at the above-named place, I would say: "July 7th,
Fort Sumter's third great bombardment, lasting sixty days and nights, with a total of 14,666
rounds fired at the fort, with eighty-one casualties."

WHAT TOOK PLACE AFTER.

I said that after I got well enough to travel I was sent back home to my master's plantation,
about a hundred miles from the city of Charleston, in central South Carolina. This was in September
of 1864, and I, with the rest of my fellow-negroes on this extensive plantation, and with other
slaves all over the South, were held in suspense waiting the final outcome of the emancipation
proclamation, issued January, 1863, but as the war continued, it had not taken effect until
the spring of 1865.

Here I had less work than before the war, for the nearer the war approached its close the less
the slaves had to do, as the masters were at the end of their wits what to do. In the latter
part of 1864 Gen. Sherman, with his army of a hundred thousand men and almost as many stragglers,
covered the space of about sixty miles in width while marching from Georgia through South Carolina.
The army camped around Columbia, the capital of South Carolina, for a short time. Early in
the spring of 1865 the commissary building first took fire, which soon spread to such extent
that the whole city of Columbia was consumed; just a few houses on the suburbs were left.

The commissary building was set on fire by one of the two parties, but it was never fully settled
whether it was done by Gen. Sherman's men or by the Confederates, who might have, as surmised
by some, as they had to evacuate the city, set it on fire to keep Gen. Sherman's men from getting
the food. After this Columbia was occupied by a portion of Sherman's men, while the others
marched on toward North Carolina.

THE GLORIOUS END.

In closing this brief sketch of my experiences in the war, I would ask my readers to go back
of the war a little with me. I want to show them a few of the dark pictures of the slave system.
Hark! I hear the clanking of the ploughman's chains in the fields; I hear the tramping of the
feet of the hoe-hands. I hear the coarse and harsh voice of the negro driver and the shrill
voice of the white overseer swearing at the slaves. I hear the swash of the lash upon the backs
of the unfortunates; I hear them crying for mercy from the merciless. Amidst these cruelties
I hear the fathers and mothers pour out their souls in prayer,--"O, Lord, how long!" and their
cries not only awaken the sympathy of their white brothers and sisters of the North, but also
mightily trouble the slave masters of the South.

The firing on Fort Sumter, in April of 1861, brought hope to the slaves that the long looked
for year of jubilee was near at hand. And though the South won victory after victory, and the
Union reeled to and fro like a drunken man, the negroes never lost hope, but faithfully supported
the Union cause with their prayers.

Thank God, where Christianity exists slavery cannot exist.

At last came freedom. And what joy it brought! I am now standing, in imagination, on a high
place just outside the city of Columbia, in the spring of 1865. The stars and stripes float
in the air. The sun is just making its appearance from behind the hills, and throwing its beautiful
light upon green bush and tree. The mocking birds and jay birds sing this morning more sweetly
than ever before. Beneath the flag of liberty there is congregated a perfect network of the
emancipated slaves from the different plantations, their swarthy faces, from a distance, looking
like the smooth water of a black sea. Their voices, like distant thunder, rend the air,--

    "Old master gone away, and the darkies all at home,
    There must be now the kingdom come and the year of jubilee."

The old men and women, bent over by reason of age and servitude, bound from their staves, praising
God for deliverance.