The Fireside Chats of Franklin Delano Roosevelt

Radio addresses to the American people broadcast between 1933 and 1944.

March 12, 1933.

I want to talk for a few minutes with the people of the United States about banking--with the
comparatively few who understand the mechanics of banking but more particularly with the overwhelming
majority who use banks for the making of deposits and the drawing of checks.  I want to tell
you what has been done in the last few days, why it was done, and what the next steps are going
to be.  I recognize that the many proclamations from state capitols and from Washington, the
legislation, the treasury regulations, etc., couched for the most part in banking and legal
terms should be explained for the benefit of the average citizen.  I owe this in particular
because of the fortitude and good temper with which everybody has accepted the inconvenience
and hardships of the banking holiday.  I know that when you understand what we in Washington
have been about I shall continue to have your cooperation as fully as I have had your sympathy
and help during the past week.

First of all let me state the simple fact that when you deposit money in a bank the bank does
not put the money into a safe deposit vault.  It invests your money in many different forms
of credit-- bonds, commercial paper, mortgages and many other kinds of loans. In other words,
the bank puts your money to work to keep the wheels of industry and of agriculture turning
around.  A comparatively small part of the money you put into the bank is kept in currency--
an amount which in normal times is wholly sufficient to cover the cash needs of the average
citizen.  In other words, the total amount of all the currency in the country is only a small
fraction of the total deposits in all of the banks.

What, then, happened during the last few days of February and the first few days of March?
Because of undermined confidence on the part of the public, there was a general rush by a large
portion of our population to turn bank deposits into currency or gold--a rush so great that
the soundest banks could not get enough currency to meet the demand.  The reason for this was
that on the spur of the moment it was, of course, impossible to sell perfectly sound assets
of a bank and convert them into cash except at panic prices far below their real value.

By the afternoon of March 3d scarcely a bank in the country was open to do business.  Proclamations
temporarily closing them in whole or in part had been issued by the governors in almost all
the states.

It was then that I issued the proclamation providing for the nation-wide bank holiday, and
this was the first step in the government's reconstruction of our financial and economic fabric.

The second step was the legislation promptly and patriotically passed by the Congress confirming
my proclamation and broadening my powers so that it became possible in view of the requirement
of time to extend the holiday and lift the ban of that holiday gradually.  This law also gave
authority to develop a program of rehabilitation of our banking facilities.  I want to tell
our citizens in every part of the nation that the national Congress-- Republicans and Democrats
alike--showed by this action a devotion to public welfare and a realization of the emergency
and the necessity for speed that it is difficult to match in our history.

The third stage has been the series of regulations permitting the banks to continue their functions
to take care of the distribution of food and household necessities and the payment of payrolls.

This bank holiday, while resulting in many cases in great inconvenience, is affording us the
opportunity to supply the currency necessary to meet the situation.  No sound bank is a dollar
worse off than it was when it closed its doors last Monday.  Neither is any bank which may
turn out not to be in a position for immediate opening.  The new law allows the twelve Federal
Reserve Banks to issue additional currency on good assets and thus the banks which reopen will
be able to meet every legitimate call.  The new currency is being sent out by the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing in large volume to every part of the country.  It is sound currency
because it is backed by actual, good assets.

A question you will ask is this:  why are all the banks not to be reopened at the same time?
The answer is simple.  Your government does not intend that the history of the past few years
shall be repeated.  We do not want and will not have another epidemic of bank failures.

As a result, we start tomorrow, Monday, with the opening of banks in the twelve Federal Reserve
Bank cities--those banks which on first examination by the treasury have already been found
to be all right.  This will be followed on Tuesday by the resumption of all their functions
by banks already found to be sound in cities where there are recognized clearing houses.  That
means about 250 cities of the United states.

On Wednesday and succeeding days banks in smaller places all through the country will resume
business, subject, of course, to the government's physical ability to complete its survey.
It is necessary that the reopening of banks be extended over a period in order to permit the
banks to make applications for necessary loans, to obtain currency needed to meet their requirements
and to enable the government to make common sense checkups.

Let me make it clear to you that if your bank does not open the first day you are by no means
justified in believing that it will not open.  A bank that opens on one of the subsequent days
is in exactly the same status as the bank that opens tomorrow.

I know that many people are worrying about state banks not members of the Federal Reserve System.
These banks can and will receive assistance from members banks and from the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation.  These state banks are following the same course as the national banks
except that they get their licenses to resume business from the state authorities, and these
authorities have been asked by the Secretary of the Treasury to permit their good banks to
open up on the same schedule as the national banks.  I am confident that the state banking
departments will be as careful as the national government in the policy relating to the opening
of banks and will follow the same broad policy.

It is possible that when the banks resume a very few people who have not recovered from their
fear may again begin withdrawals.  Let me make it clear that the banks will take care of all
needs--and it is my belief that hoarding during the past week has become an exceedingly unfashionable
pastime.  It needs no prophet to tell you that when the people find that they can get their
money--that they can get it when they want it for all legitimate purposes--the phantom of fear
will soon be laid.  People will again be glad to have their money where it will be safely taken
care of and where they can use it conveniently at any time.  I can assure you that it is safer
to keep your money in a reopened bank than under the mattress.

The success of our whole great national program depends, of course, upon the cooperation of
the public--on its intelligent support and use of a reliable system.

Remember that the essential accomplishment of the new legislation is that it makes it possible
for banks more readily to convert their assets into cash than was the case before.  More liberal
provision has been made for banks to borrow on these assets at the Reserve Banks and more liberal
provision has also been made for issuing currency on the security of those good assets.  This
currency is not fiat currency.  It is issued only on adequate security--and every good bank
has an abundance of such security.

One more point before I close.  There will be, of course, some banks unable to reopen without
being reorganized.  The new law allows the government to assist in making these reorganizations
quickly and effectively and even allows the government to subscribe to at least a part of new
capital which may be required.

I hope you can see from this elemental recital of what your government is doing that there
is nothing complex, or radical, in the process.

We had a bad banking situation.  Some of our bankers had shown themselves either incompetent
or dishonest in their handling of the people's funds.  They had used the money entrusted to
them in speculations and unwise loans.  This was, of course, not true in the vast majority
of our banks, but it was true in enough of them to shock the people for a time into a sense
of insecurity and to put them into a frame of mind where they did not differentiate, but seemed
to assume that the acts of a comparative few had tainted them all.  It was the government's
job to straighten out this situation and do it as quickly as possible--and the job is being
performed.

I do not promise you that every bank will be reopened or that individual losses will not be
suffered, but there will be no losses that possibly could be avoided; and there would have
been more and greater losses had we continued to drift.  I can even promise you salvation for
some at least of the sorely pressed banks.  We shall be engaged not merely in reopening sound
banks but in the creation of sound banks through reorganization.

It has been wonderful to me to catch the note of confidence from all over the country.  I can
never be sufficiently grateful to the people for the loyal support they have given me in their
acceptance of the judgment that has dictated our course, even though all our processes may
not have seemed clear to them.

After all, there is an element in the readjustment of our financial system more important than
currency, more important than gold, and that is the confidence of the people.  Confidence and
courage are the essentials of success in carrying out our plan.  You people must have faith;
you must not be stampeded by rumors or guesses.  Let us unite in banishing fear.  We have provided
the machinery to restore our financial system; it is up to you to support and make it work.

It is your problem no less than it is mine.  Together we cannot fail.

May 7, 1933.

On a Sunday night a week after my inauguration I used the radio to tell you about the banking
crisis and the measures we were taking to meet it.  I think that in that way I made clear to
the country various facts that might otherwise have been misunderstood and in general provided
a means of understanding which did much to restore confidence.

Tonight, eight weeks later, I come for the second time to give you my report; in the same spirit
and by the same means to tell you about what we have been doing and what we are planning to do.

Two months ago we were facing serious problems.  The country was dying by inches.  It was dying
because trade and commerce had declined to dangerously low levels; prices for basic commodities
were such as to destroy the value of the assets of national institutions such as banks, savings
banks, insurance companies, and others.  These institutions, because of their great needs,
were foreclosing mortgages, calling loans, refusing credit.  Thus there was actually in process
of destruction the property of millions of people who had borrowed money on that property in
terms of dollars which had had an entirely different value from the level of March, 1933. 
That situation in that crisis did not call for any complicated consideration of economic panaceas
or fancy plans.  We were faced by a condition and not a theory.

There were just two alternatives:  The first was to allow the foreclosures to continue, credit
to be withheld and money to go into hiding, and thus forcing liquidation and bankruptcy of
banks, railroads and insurance companies and a recapitalizing of all business and all property
on a lower level.  This alternative meant a continuation of what is loosely called "deflation",
the net result of which would have been extraordinary hardships on all property owners and,
incidentally, extraordinary hardships on all persons working for wages through an increase
in unemployment and a further reduction of the wage scale.

It is easy to see that the result of this course would have not only economic effects of a
very serious nature but social results that might bring incalculable harm.  Even before I was
inaugurated I came to the conclusion that such a policy was too much to ask the American people
to bear.  It involved not only a further loss of homes, farms, savings and wages but also a
loss of spiritual values--the loss of that sense of security for the present and the future
so necessary to the peace and contentment of the individual and of his family.  When you destroy
these things you will find it difficult to establish confidence of any sort in the future.
It was clear that mere appeals from Washington for confidence and the mere lending of more
money to shaky institutions could not stop this downward course.  A prompt program applied
as quickly as possible seemed to me not only justified but imperative to our national security.
The Congress, and when I say Congress I mean the members of both political parties, fully understood
this and gave me generous and intelligent support.  The members of Congress realized that the
methods of normal times had to be replaced in the emergency by measures which were suited to
the serious and pressing requirements of the moment.  There was no actual surrender of power,
Congress still retained its constitutional authority, and no one has the slightest desire to
change the balance of these powers.  The function of Congress is to decide what has to be done
and to select the appropriate agency to carry out its will.  To this policy it has strictly
adhered.  The only thing that has been happening has been to designate the President as the
agency to carry out certain of the purposes of the Congress.  This was constitutional and in
keeping with the past American tradition.

The legislation which has been passed or is in the process of enactment can properly be considered
as part of a well-grounded plan.

First, we are giving opportunity of employment to one-quarter of a million of the unemployed,
especially the young men who have dependents, to go into the forestry and flood prevention
work.  This is a big task because it means feeding, clothing and caring for nearly twice as
many men as we have in the regular army itself.  In creating this civilian conservation corps
we are killing two birds with one stone.  We are clearly enhancing the value of our natural
resources and we are relieving an appreciable amount of actual distress.  This great group
of men has entered upon its work on a purely voluntary basis; no military training is involved
and we are conserving not only our natural resources, but our human resources. One of the great
values to this work is the fact that it is direct and requires the intervention of very little
machinery.

Second, I have requested the Congress and have secured action upon a proposal to put the great
properties owned by our government at Muscle Shoals to work after long years of wasteful inaction,
and with this a broad plan for the improvement of a vast area in the Tennessee Valley.  It
will add to the comfort and happiness of hundreds of thousands of people and the incident benefits
will reach the entire nation.

Next, the Congress is about to pass legislation that will greatly ease the mortgage distress
among the farmers and the home owners of the nation, by providing for the easing of the burden
of debt now bearing so heavily upon millions of our people.

Our next step in seeking immediate relief is a grant of half a billion dollars to help the
states, counties and municipalities in their duty to care for those who need direct and immediate
relief.

The Congress also passed legislation authorizing the sale of beer in such states as desired
it.  This has already resulted in considerable reemployment and incidentally has provided much
needed tax revenue.

We are planning to ask the Congress for legislation to enable the government to undertake public
works, thus stimulating directly and indirectly the employment of many others in well-considered
projects.

Further legislation has been taken up which goes much more fundamentally into our economic
problems.  The Farm Relief Bill seeks by the use of several methods, alone or together, to
bring about an increased return to farmers for their major farm products, seeking at the same
time to prevent in the days to come disastrous overproduction which so often in the past has
kept farm commodity prices far below a reasonable return.  This measure provides wide powers
for emergencies.  The extent of its use will depend entirely upon what the future has in store.

Well-considered and conservative measures will likewise be proposed which will attempt to give
to the industrial workers of the country a more fair wage return, prevent cut-throat competition
and unduly long hours for labor, and at the same time encourage each industry to prevent overproduction.

Our Railroad Bill falls into the same class because it seeks to provide and make certain definite
planning by the railroads themselves, with the assistance of the government, to eliminate the
duplication and waste that is now resulting in railroad receiverships and continuing operating
deficits.

I am certain that the people of this country understand and approve the broad purposes behind
these new governmental policies relating to agriculture and industry and transportation.  We
found ourselves faced with more agricultural products than we could possibly consume ourselves
and surpluses which other nations did not have the cash to buy from us except at prices ruinously
low.  We found our factories able to turn out more goods than we could possibly consume, and
at the same time we were faced with a falling export demand.  We found ourselves with more
facilities to transport goods and crops than there were goods and crops to be transported.
All of this has been caused in large part by a complete lack of planning and a complete failure
to understand the danger signals that have been flying ever since the close of the World War.
The people of this country have been erroneously encouraged to believe that they could keep
on increasing the output of farm and factory indefinitely and that some magician would find
ways and means for that increased output to be consumed with reasonable profit to the producer.

Today we have reason to believe that things are a little better than they were two months ago.
Industry has picked up, railroads are carrying more freight, farm prices are better, but I
am not going to indulge in issuing proclamations of overenthusiastic assurance.  We cannot
ballyhoo ourselves back to prosperity.  I am going to be honest at all times with the people
of the country.  I do not want the people of this country to take the foolish course of letting
this improvement come back on another speculative wave. I do not want the people to believe
that because of unjustified optimism we can resume the ruinous practice of increasing our crop
output and our factory output in the hope that a kind Providence will find buyers at high prices.
Such a course may bring us immediate and false prosperity but it will be the kind of prosperity
that will lead us into another tailspin.

It is wholly wrong to call the measure that we have taken government control of farming, control
of industry, and control of transportation.  It is rather a partnership between government
and farming and industry and transportation, not partnership in profits, for the profits still
go to the citizens, but rather a partnership in planning and partnership to see that the plans
are carried out.

Let me illustrate with an example.  Take the cotton goods industry. It is probably true that
ninety percent of the cotton manufacturers would agree to eliminate starvation wages, would
agree to stop long hours of employment, would agree to stop child labor, would agree to prevent
an overproduction that would result in unsalable surpluses.  But, what good is such an agreement
if the other ten percent of cotton manufacturers pay starvation wages, require long hours,
employ children in their mills and turn out burdensome surpluses?  The unfair ten percent could
produce goods so cheaply that the fair ninety percent would be compelled to meet the unfair
conditions.  Here is where government comes in.  Government ought to have the right and will
have the right, after surveying and planning for an industry to prevent, with the assistance
of the overwhelming majority of that industry, unfair practice and to enforce this agreement
by the authority of government.  The so- called anti-trust laws were intended to prevent the
creation of monopolies.  That purpose of the anti-trust laws must be continued, but these laws
were never intended to encourage the kind of unfair competition that results in long hours,
starvation wages and overproduction.

The same principle applies to farm products and to transportation and every other field of
organized private industry.

We are working toward a definite goal, which is to prevent the return of conditions which came
very close to destroying what we call modern civilization.  The actual accomplishment of our
purpose cannot be attained in a day.  Our policies are wholly within purposes for which our
American constitutional government was established 150 years ago.

I know that the people of this country will understand this and will also understand the spirit
in which we are undertaking this policy.  I do not deny that we may make mistakes of procedure
as we carry out the policy.  I have no expectation of making a hit every time I come to bat.
What I seek is the highest possible batting average, not only for myself but for the team.
Theodore Roosevelt once said to me:  "If I can be right 75 percent of the time I shall come
up to the fullest measure of my hopes."

Much has been said of late about federal finances and inflation, the gold standard, etc.  Let
me make the facts very simple and my policy very clear.  In the first place, government credit
and government currency are really one and the same thing.  Behind government bonds there is
only a promise to pay.  Behind government currency we have, in addition to the promise to pay,
a reserve of gold and a small reserve of silver.  In this connection it is worth while remembering
that in the past the government has agreed to redeem nearly thirty billions of its debts and
its currency in gold, and private corporations in this country have agreed to redeem another
sixty or seventy billions of securities and mortgages in gold.  The government and private
corporations were making these agreements when they knew full well that all of the gold in
the United States amounted to only between three and four billions and that all of the gold
in all of the world amounted to only about eleven billions.

If the holders of these promises to pay started in to demand gold the first comers would get
gold for a few days and they would amount to about one twenty-fifth of the holders of the securities
and the currency.  The other twenty-four people out of twenty-five, who did not happen to be
at the top of the line, would be told politely that there was no more gold left.  We have decided
to treat all twenty-five in the same way in the interest of justice and the exercise of the
constitutional powers of this government.  We have placed everyone on the same basis in order
that the general good may be preserved.

Nevertheless, gold, and to a partial extent silver, are perfectly good bases for currency and
that is why I decided not to let any of the gold now in the country go out of it.

A series of conditions arose three weeks ago which very readily might have meant, first, a
drain on our gold by foreign countries, and second, as a result of that, a flight of American
capital, in the form of gold, out of our country.  It is not exaggerating the possibility to
tell you that such an occurrence might well have taken from us the major part of our gold reserve
and resulted in such a further weakening of our government and private credit as to bring on
actual panic conditions and the complete stoppage of the wheels of industry.

The administration has the definite objective of raising commodity prices to such an extent
that those who have borrowed money will, on the average, be able to repay that money in the
same kind of dollar which they borrowed.  We do not seek to let them get such a cheap dollar
that they will be able to pay back a great deal less than they borrowed.  In other words, we
seek to correct a wrong and not to create another wrong in the opposite direction.  That is
why powers are being given to the administration to provide, if necessary, for an enlargement
of credit, in order to correct the existing wrong.  These powers will be used when, as, and
if it may be necessary to accomplish the purpose.

Hand in hand with the domestic situation which, of course, is our first concern, is the world
situation, and I want to emphasize to you that the domestic situation is inevitably and deeply
tied in with the conditions in all of the other nations of the world.  In other words, we can
get, in all probability, a fair measure of prosperity to return in the United States, but it
will not be permanent unless we get a return to prosperity all over the world.

In the conferences which we have held and are holding with the leaders of other nations, we
are seeking four great objectives: First, a general reduction of armaments and through this
the removal of the fear of invasion and armed attack, and, at the same time, a reduction in
armament costs, in order to help in the balancing of government budgets and the reduction of
taxation; second, a cutting down of the trade barriers, in order to restart the flow of exchange
of crops and goods between nations; third, the setting up of a stabilization of currencies,
in order that trade can make contracts ahead; fourth, the reestablishment of friendly relations
and greater confidence between all nations.

Our foreign visitors these past three weeks have responded to these purposes in a very helpful
way.  All of the nations have suffered alike in this great depression.  They have all reached
the conclusion that each can best be helped by the common action of all.  It is in this spirit
that our visitors have met with us and discussed our common problems.  The international conference
that lies before us must succeed.  The future of the world demands it and we have each of us
pledged ourselves to the best joint efforts to this end.

To you, the people of this country, all of us, the Members of the Congress and the members
of this administration, owe a profound debt of gratitude.  Throughout the depression you have
been patient. You have granted us wide powers; you have encouraged us with a widespread approval
of our purposes.  Every ounce of strength and every resource at our command we have devoted
to the end of justifying your confidence.  We are encouraged to believe that a wise and sensible
beginning has been made.  In the present spirit of mutual confidence and mutual encouragement
we go forward.

July 24, 1933.

After the adjournment of the historical special session of the Congress five weeks ago I purposely
refrained from addressing you for two very good reasons.

First, I think that we all wanted the opportunity of a little quiet thought to examine and
assimilate in a mental picture the crowding events of the hundred days which had been devoted
to the starting of the wheels of the New Deal.

Secondly, I wanted a few weeks in which to set up the new administrative organization and to
see the first fruits of our careful planning.

I think it will interest you if I set forth the fundamentals of this planning for national
recovery; and this I am very certain will make it abundantly clear to you that all of the proposals
and all of the legislation since the fourth day of March have not been just a collection of
haphazard schemes but rather the orderly component parts of a connected and logical whole.

Long before inauguration day I became convinced that individual effort and local effort and
even disjointed federal effort had failed and of necessity would fail and, therefore, that
a rounded leadership by the federal government had become a necessity both of theory and of
fact.  Such leadership, however, had its beginning in preserving and strengthening the credit
of the United States government, because without that no leadership was a possibility. For
years the government had not lived within its income.  The immediate task was to bring our
regular expenses within our revenues.  That has been done.

It may seem inconsistent for a government to cut down its regular expenses and at the same
time to borrow and to spend billions for an emergency.  But it is not inconsistent because
a large portion of the emergency money has been paid out in the form of sound loans which will
be repaid to the treasury over a period of years; and to cover the rest of the emergency money
we have imposed taxes to pay the interest and the installments on that part of the debt.

So you will see that we have kept our credit good.  We have built a granite foundation in a
period of confusion.  That foundation of the federal credit stands there broad and sure.  It
is the base of the whole recovery plan.

Then came the part of the problem that concerned the credit of the individual citizens themselves.
You and I know of the banking crisis and of the great danger to the savings of our people.
On March sixth every national bank was closed.  One month later 90 percent of the deposits
in the national banks had been made available to the depositors.  Today only about 5 percent
of the deposits in national banks are still tied up.  The condition relating to state banks,
while not quite so good on a percentage basis, is showing a steady reduction in the total of
frozen deposits--a result much better than we had expected three months ago.

The problem of the credit of the individual was made more difficult because of another fact.
The dollar was a different dollar from the one with which the average debt had been incurred.
For this reason large numbers of people were actually losing possession of and title to their
farms and homes.  All of you know the financial steps which have been taken to correct this
inequality.  In addition the Home Loan Act, the Farm Loan Act and the Bankruptcy Act were passed.

It was a vital necessity to restore purchasing power by reducing the debt and interest charges
upon our people, but while we were helping people to save their credit it was at the same time
absolutely essential to do something about the physical needs of hundreds of thousands who
were in dire straits at that very moment. Municipal and state aid were being stretched to the
limit.  We appropriated half a billion dollars to supplement their efforts and in addition,
as you know, we have put 300,000 young men into practical and useful work in our forests and
to prevent flood and soil erosion.  The wages they earn are going in greater part to the support
of the nearly one million people who constitute their families.

In this same classification we can properly place the great public works program running to
a total of over three billion dollars--to be used for highways and ships and flood prevention
and inland navigation and thousands of self-sustaining state and municipal improvements.  Two
points should be made clear in the allotting and administration of these projects--first, we
are using the utmost care to choose labor-creating, quick-acting, useful projects, avoiding
the smell of the pork barrel; and secondly, we are hoping that at least half of the money will
come back to the government from projects which will pay for themselves over a period of years.

Thus far I have spoken primarily of the foundation stones--the measures that were necessary
to reestablish credit and to head people in the opposite direction by preventing distress and
providing as much work as possible through governmental agencies. Now I come to the links which
will build us a more lasting prosperity.  I have said that we cannot attain that in a nation
half boom and half broke.  If all of our people have work and fair wages and fair profits,
they can buy the products of their neighbors and business is good.  But if you take away the
wages and the profits of half of them, business is only half as good.  It doesn't help much
if the fortunate half is very prosperous--the best way is for everybody to be reasonably prosperous.

For many years the two great barriers to a normal prosperity have been low farm prices and
the creeping paralysis of unemployment. These factors have cut the purchasing power of the
country in half. I promised action.  Congress did its part when it passed the Farm and the
Industrial Recovery Acts.  Today we are putting these two acts to work and they will work if
people understand their plain objectives.

First the Farm Act:  It is based on the fact that the purchasing power of nearly half our population
depends on adequate prices for farm products.  We have been producing more of some crops than
we consume or can sell in a depressed world market.  The cure is not to produce so much.  Without
our help the farmers cannot get together and cut production, and the Farm Bill gives them a
method of bringing their production down to a reasonable level and of obtaining reasonable
prices for their crops.  I have clearly stated that this method is in a sense experimental,
but so far as we have gone we have reason to believe that it will produce good results.

It is obvious that if we can greatly increase the purchasing power of the tens of millions
of our people who make a living from farming and the distribution of farm crops, we will greatly
increase the consumption of those goods which are turned out by industry.

That brings me to the final step--bringing back industry along sound lines.

Last Autumn, on several occasions, I expressed my faith that we can make possible by democratic
self-discipline in industry general increases in wages and shortening of hours sufficient to
enable industry to pay its own workers enough to let those workers buy and use the things that
their labor produces.  This can be done only if we permit and encourage cooperative action
in industry because it is obvious that without united action a few selfish men in each competitive
group will pay starvation wages and insist on long hours of work.  Others in that group must
either follow suit or close up shop.  We have seen the result of action of that kind in the
continuing descent into the economic Hell of the past four years.

There is a clear way to reverse that process:  If all employers in each competitive group agree
to pay their workers the same wages-- reasonable wages--and require the same hours--reasonable
hours-- then higher wages and shorter hours will hurt no employer. Moreover, such action is
better for the employer than unemployment and low wages, because it makes more buyers for his
product.  That is the simple idea which is the very heart of the Industrial Recovery Act.

On the basis of this simple principle of everybody doing things together, we are starting out
on this nationwide attack on unemployment.  It will succeed if our people understand it--in
the big industries, in the little shops, in the great cities and in the small villages.  There
is nothing complicated about it and there is nothing particularly new in the principle.  It
goes back to the basic idea of society and of the nation itself that people acting in a group
can accomplish things which no individual acting alone could even hope to bring about.

Here is an example.  In the Cotton Textile Code and in other agreements already signed, child
labor has been abolished.  That makes me personally happier than any other one thing with which
I have been connected since I came to Washington.  In the textile industry--an industry which
came to me spontaneously and with a splendid cooperation as soon as the recovery act was signed--child
labor was an old evil.  But no employer acting alone was able to wipe it out.  If one employer
tried it, or if one state tried it, the costs of operation rose so high that it was impossible
to compete with the employers or states which had failed to act.  The moment the Recovery Act
was passed, this monstrous thing which neither opinion nor law could reach through years of
effort went out in a flash.  As a British editorial put it, we did more under a Code in one
day than they in England had been able to do under the common law in eighty-five years of effort.
I use this incident, my friends, not to boast of what has already been done but to point the
way to you for even greater cooperative efforts this summer and autumn.

We are not going through another winter like the last.  I doubt if ever any people so bravely
and cheerfully endured a season half so bitter.  We cannot ask America to continue to face
such needless hardships.  It is time for courageous action, and the Recovery Bill gives us
the means to conquer unemployment with exactly the same weapon that we have used to strike
down child labor.

The proposition is simply this:

If all employers will act together to shorten hours and raise wages we can put people back
to work.  No employer will suffer, because the relative level of competitive cost will advance
by the same amount for all.  But if any considerable group should lag or shirk, this great
opportunity will pass us by and we will go into another desperate winter.  This must not happen.

We have sent out to all employers an agreement which is the result of weeks of consultation.
This agreement checks against the voluntary codes of nearly all the large industries which
have already been submitted.  This blanket agreement carries the unanimous approval of the
three boards which I have appointed to advise in this, boards representing the great leaders
in labor, in industry and in social service.  The agreement has already brought a flood of
approval from every state, and from so wide a cross- section of the common calling of industry
that I know it is fair for all.  It is a plan--deliberate, reasonable and just--intended to
put into effect at once the most important of the broad principles which are being established,
industry by industry, through codes. Naturally, it takes a good deal of organizing and a great
many hearings and many months, to get these codes perfected and signed, and we cannot wait
for all of them to go through.  The blanket agreements, however, which I am sending to every
employer will start the wheels turning now, and not six months from now.

There are, of course, men, a few of them who might thwart this great common purpose by seeking
selfish advantage.  There are adequate penalties in the law, but I am now asking the cooperation
that comes from opinion and from conscience.  These are the only instruments we shall use in
this great summer offensive against unemployment.  But we shall use them to the limit to protect
the willing from the laggard and to make the plan succeed.

In war, in the gloom of night attack, soldiers wear a bright badge on their shoulders to be
sure that comrades do not fire on comrades.  On that principle, those who cooperate in this
program must know each other at a glance.  That is why we have provided a badge of honor for
this purpose, a simple design with a legend.  "We do our part," and I ask that all those who
join with me shall display that badge prominently.  It is essential to our purpose.

Already all the great, basic industries have come forward willingly with proposed codes, and
in these codes they accept the principles leading to mass reemployment.  But, important as
is this heartening demonstration, the richest field for results is among the small employers,
those whose contribution will give new work for from one to ten people.  These smaller employers
are indeed a vital part of the backbone of the country, and the success of our plans lies largely
in their hands.

Already the telegrams and letters are pouring into the White House--messages from employers
who ask that their names be placed on this special Roll of Honor.  They represent great corporations
and companies, and partnerships and individuals.  I ask that even before the dates set in the
agreements which we have sent out, the employers of the country who have not already done so--the
big fellows and the little fellows--shall at once write or telegraph to me personally at the
White House, expressing their intention of going through with the plan.  And it is my purpose
to keep posted in the post office of every town, a Roll of Honor of all those who join with me.

I want to take this occasion to say to the twenty-four governors who are now in conference
in San Francisco, that nothing thus far has helped in strengthening this great movement more
than their resolutions adopted at the very outset of their meeting, giving this plan their
unanimous and instant approval, and pledging to support it in their states.

To the men and women whose lives have been darkened by the fact or the fear of unemployment,
I am justified in saying a word of encouragement because the codes and the agreements already
approved, or about to be passed upon, prove that the plan does raise wages, and that it does
put people back to work.  You can look on every employer who adopts the plan as one who is
doing his part, and those employers deserve well of everyone who works for a living.  It will
be clear to you, as it is to me, that while the shirking employer may undersell his competitor,
the saving he thus makes is made at the expense of his country's welfare.

While we are making this great common effort there should be no discord and dispute. To find it would not be collating all the chronologies of fashion, because by
dint of being old wearing chisterómetro of the nearly modern era, and this illusion the delusion
that helped plush, as well smoothed with loving parental care. The other clothing, if the hat
matched in longevity, could not emulate him in the dissimulation of years of service, because
with so many twists and transformations, and many routes needle passes and iron, and were but a
shadow of what they were. A gabancillo summer clarucho, using D. Bottle at all times: his garment
was less inveterate, and he served for hide, closed to the neck, everything else that had less
than half of the pants. What was hidden beneath the garment that only God knew Ponte.

Most harmless person I do not think has ever existed, most useless, either. That Ponte had not
never served at all, as attested to his misery, impossible to hide in that sad West of your
life. Fortunilla inherited a regular, played some good destinations, and did not care or family
responsibilities, they froze in celibacy, first worship himself, after having lost too much time looking
for scruples and criteria too rigid a marriage of convenience, not found or could find, with
the goodies and perendengues he wanted. At the time there was still no word corny, Ponte Delgado
devoted his life to society, dressed with elegance affected often do not tell the rooms, because
then little used this name, but some good home podium and distinguished. The actual rooms were
few, and Frasquito, though in his old age was gala have entered them, the truth was that neither
knew the lining. In chat rooms haunting and attending dances, as well as casinos and convention
centers male Not to mention that out of tune, but neither was known for his wit, nor for that noble
blend correction and careless elegance which is true. Very estiradito always, that yes, very attentive
to his gloves, his tie, his small feet, it was pleasing to the ladies no interest one, tolerable
for men, some of which will truly estimated.

Only in our heterogeneous society, free from scruples and distinctions, that is the case a hidalguete,
holder of four homelands, or a medium-wage clerk was confused with
Marquis and blue blood counts, or the heroes of money, false centers
elegance come together and alternate operating the sumptuous life
of their business or their vanity, or by daring affairs, and those
who go to dance and eat and socialize with Ladies, no other object
than to obtain recommendations for promotion, or for a Head to miss
impunity office hours.

Do not say this for Frasquito Ponte, the which was more than a fine ragamuffins times its
social heyday. Its decadence began to manifest itself in a noticeable way to 59, fought heroically
to 68, and to come this year, marking the destination table with very black line, desplomose
the unhappy lover in the depths of misery, to rise no more. Years before, ate the last remains
of his fortune. The destination with great difficulty could get Gonzalez Bravo, took it ruthlessly
revolution did not have unemployment, there was no able to save. The wretched abode without
income the day and night, and compassion some good friends who sat at his table. But good
friends died or were tired, and relatives showed no compassion. Starved, nakedness, deprivation
of all who had been his greatest pleasure, and so tremendous crisis, his innate gentleness
and self-esteem were as a millstone around the neck so soon sank and drowned: there was a
man able to pester your friends with requests for money, vulgar saber, and only in rare Sometimes
true critical cases or threat of death in the struggle with poverty, is ventured to reach
out to demand relief, magazine, yes, to save However, a glove, although tattered and torn,
glove was the end. Before dying of hunger Vial, to do anything without dignity. It was a case
of get dressed in the tavern of Boto, to eat two cooked real, rather than be in a good house, where
if you admitted with open arms also hurt his dignity with cruel jokes, rubbing in the face his
sponging and parasitism.

With agonizing effort sought the unhappy livelihood, even those from the less lucrative but the shortness
of their talents more difficult that in all cases is difficult. Both stirred, he could finally
find some empleíllos, certainly unworthy of its previous position but allowed to live some
time without stooping. Their misery, after all, could decorated with a veneer of dignity. Receive
a short pecuniary assistance as an intern school, or as a clerk boatmen Segovia Street, to bring
the accounts and put the letters, was begging certainly, but so well disguised that there was
no disgrace to receive it. Dragged for a few years life miserable, lonely dweller neighborhoods
South, not daring to go to the Centre and North, for fear of finding
knowledge being seen worse ill shod and clothed, and having lost those
accommodations sought others accepting the order, not without scruples
and crispaduras nerve, the position of broker or salesman a soap factory,
to go from shop to shop and house to house offering gender, and placing
the items could.

But so little malice labia and the poor man unfolded chalanesco in this job, soon had to stay on the
street. Recently assigned him to the sky around the Costanilla old ladies of St. Andrew, to
take them accounts of a trade remaining wax, which liquidated, yielding stocks in small lots
parishes and congregations. Work was scarce, but he gave only two pesetas a day, with which performed
the miracle of living, agencies, food and bedding, and do not say home, because it really did
not.

Already 80, he was the terrible year for the hapless Frasquito was determined to have no home,
and after a few days of horrific crisis that could be compared to the snail, for the one to take
home with them, was understood to Bernarda Sena, the owner of the bedrooms Noon Street Grande,
willing woman and knew distinguish. For three real bed gave him a penny, and unique gift to the decency
of the customer, for only one real addition let him have his trunk inside a small room, where
he also allowed spend an hour every morning straightening her clothes, and grooming with their
sinks, cosmetic and hands of dye. Came as a corpse, and left unknown, clean, fragrant and bright
beauty.

The peseta remaining employed in eating and dressing ... Huge problem, algebra impossible!
With all its troubles, this season gave him on break, because they suffered the humiliation
ask for help, and good or bad, wrong or right, the man had a way
of living, and living and breathing, and still had plenty of time
to give some back flips and imaginary spaces.

Obdulia his honest dealings with that knowledge came from Doña Paca and trade relations of the
old chandlers with burial, father of the child, if carried to the spirit of the Ponte comfort
from the consistency of ideas, tastes and hobbies, put him in the serious commitment neglect the
needs of the mouth to buy some new boots, since that time complained bitterly exclusively serving
horribly disfigured, and all passed the needy least come with ugly foot in the regions of the
ideal.

XVII

With the terrible imbalance brought to the dwindling budget, new boots and other True redundancy
items such as cream, cards, etc., in which it was necessary invest sums on account, it was entirely
empty Frasquito belly and without knowing where or how he had to fill it. But Providence, which
never abandons the good, afforded him a remedy in the house itself Obdulia, which killed some
days hunger, begging to accompany her to lunch, and of course I had to spend not a little saliva to slow
you down, and overcome his shyness and delicacy. Benin, which he read in his face starvation,
spent less Mademoiselle labels, and served him roughly, laughing at the fuss and Repulgue that
was delicate way to acceptance.

That day, that appeared so sinister, and that the appearance of Benin
changed to one of the happier, and Frasquito Obdulia, as they realized
that the problem was solved organic repair, threw a hundred million
miles from reality, to space their souls in the rosy atmosphere of
the real sham.

Ponte's ideas were very limited: they could purchase in the twenty
years of its social heyday were petrified, not to them was amended,
nor acquired new.

Misery snatching him from his old friends and relationships, and as his body is mummified, his
thinking was becoming fossil. In its thinking, did not exceed 68 lines and 70. Knew all the
things you know world was no man fallen from a nest or clouds, judged event and innocent people
innocence. The shame of their distressing withdrawal state and therefore had no little part in
his mental backwardness and poverty of thought.

For fear of being seen had a facade, he spent weeks and even months without leaving their neighborhoods;
and as I had not imperative that the center call him, did not go to the Plaza Mayor. She continually
random centrifugal monomania, preferring for his rambling streets
dark and lost, where you rarely see a top hat.

In such places, and enjoying of rest, time without fee and loneliness, his imaginative power
was reliving the happy times, or created in these people and things to taste and miserable
as the dreamer.

In his talks with Obdulia, never ceased to refer Frasquito its social and elegant life other
times, with interesting details: how it was presented at the gatherings of lords Tal, or What
Marquise, what distinguished people he met, and what were their characters, customs and dress.
Listed the sumptuous houses where he had spent happy hours, knowing the very best of Madrid
in both sexes, and recreating with entertaining talks very nice and hobbies. When the conversation
fell on matters of art, Ponte, raving for music and the Real, humming pieces of Norma and Maria
di Rohan, who listened Obdulia ecstasy.

Other times, rushing to poetry, verses recitábale D. Gregorio Romero Larrañaga and other poets of
those times silly. The radical ignorance of the young was their own land for these trials of
literary education, it was all new, all caused the rapture would feel at seeing a creature
toys for the first time.

There is never satiated girl (who is forced to call it that, despite
being married, with the abortion appropriate) to acquire and news
reports of the life of society, because although some had knowledge
of it, by vague memories of his childhood, and so her mother was told,
was in the descriptions and most charming Ponte paintings and poetry.

No Indeed, the company Frasquito time was more beautiful than the coeval finest men funniest
ladies and spiritual. A plea for it, described the fossil elegant banquets, dances, with all its
magnificence, the buffet or snack bar, with its variety of dishes and refreshments, had love
affairs that gave their time to speak; listing the rules of good manners then, even the tiniest
details of life luxuries was in use, and did the eulogy of the beauty that shone in his time, and had
already died or were cornered oldies. No ink was left in their own little adventures, or rather
first steps of love, or the inconvenience that such abuses had with husbands escamones or siblings
susceptible. In the result, had also its corresponding match, go! with sponsors, conditions, choice
of weapons, bickering, and finally, the clash of swords, ending all in fraternal lunch. Day after
day, was counting the number of incidents of social life, which contained all the varieties
of debauchery naive, elegance poor and righteous nonsense.

It was also a great fan Frasquito stage art and represented in various roles in home theaters one
day Flower Braid of her hair. Even sandwiches recalled parliament and both works, which he repeated
with emphasis declamation, and listened with rapture Obdulia, wiped tears in his eyes, by the
a phrase of the time. He also referred, and it had to use two sessions and a half dancing costumes
gave back Maricastaña years, a woman or Baroness Marquesa for I do not know how many. Frasquito
not forget, if you lived a thousand years, this great feast, attended Calabrian bandit. And
remember everyone, absolutely everyone's costumes, and described and specified, not to mention ribbons
or gallon. Certainly preparations their dress, and steps had to be taken to procure the items
characteristics, robbed long day and night, she missed weeks at the office, and he came here the
first dismissal, and severance his first arrears.

Although in very small scale, could also meet other curious Frasquito Obdulia: curiosity, or rather
illusion of travel. Had not been around the world, but had been to Paris! and elegant, this may
suffice. Paris! And how was Paris? Obdulia eyes devoured the narrator, when referring to the
wonders hyperbolic outbursts big city, no less than in the splendid time of the Second Empire.
Ah! The Empress Eugenie, the Champs Elysees, the boulevards, Notre Dame, Palais Royal ... and that
enter description all, Mabille, the Loreto! ... Ponte was not more than six weeks, living with
a great economy, and making very good time, day and night, so it does not will be nothing to
see. In those forty-five days of freedom from Paris, enjoyed it unspeakable, and brought to Madrid
memories and impressions that count for three consecutive years. All I saw, big and small,
beautiful and strange, stuck his nose around a little girl, and not I must say that was permitted
little debauchery, desiring to know the secret charms and seductive thanks to enslave all peoples,
making them tributaries of the voluptuous Lutetia.

Just that day, while diligently sum Benina fretted in the kitchen and dining Obdulia bottle telling
things in Paris, and soon, in a picturesque story down sewers, such as climbing on the tower
of the artesian well of Grenelle.

- Too expensive to be living in Paris - said his friend -. Ah! Mr. de Ponte, that's not for poor.

-
No, do not believe you. Knowing handled, you can live as you want. I spent four Napoleons five
newspapers, and nothing I had seen. I soon learned correspondences of buses, and more distant
sites was for a few her. There Restaurane economic where you serve good food for little money. It
is true that in tips, that there call pour boire, spends more than necessary, but believe me,
gives them a taste to be seen with treated with kindness. Do not you hear more than pardon, pardon
all the time.

- But among the thousand things you saw, Ponte, you miss the best. Did you see the Great Men?

-
I'll tell you. As it was summer, the big men had gone to bathe. Victor Hugo, you know, was
emigration.

- And Lamartine, do not you see you?

- At the time, and the author of Graziella had died. One afternoon, the friends I accompanied
me on my walks home taught the Thiers, the great historian, and I also led to the cafe where,
for winter, I used to go to have a glass of beer Paul de Kock.

- Does the novels to laugh?

It's funny, but its indecency and filth annoy me.

I also saw the shoe store where you made the boots Octavio Feuillet. Certainly for me there I ordered
some, that cost me six Napoleons ... But what make, what kind! I lasted until the death of
Prim ..

- That Octavio, what is the author?

- From Sybil and other works all handsome.

- Do not Know ... I confuse him with Eugene Sue, who wrote, if I remember
correctly, the Deadly Sins and Our Lady of Paris.

- The Mysteries
of Paris, you mean.

- That ... Oh, I got bad when I read this work,
the impression I was!

- You are identified with the characters, and
lived their lives.

- Exactly.

The same thing happened to Mary or the daughter of a laborer ...».

In this Benina told them that I had prepared the pittance, and lacked
time to fall on it and do the honors due to the tortilla and marinated
pork chops with fried potatoes.

Owner of his will in any act that required finesse and good manners,
they are composed Ponte admirably with their nerves for not disclosing
the ferocity of his hunger late.

With benevolent trust, Benina would say, "Eat, eat, Mr. de Ponte, although this is not food
thin, like that you get in other houses, not hurts now ... Times are ill. We must apencar yet
...

- Lady Nina - replied the proto-cheesy - I assure you, on my word
of honor, that you an angel, I am inclined to believe that the body
you have embodied a being beneficial and mysterious, a being that
is mere personification of Providence, as understood and understand
the ancient and modern peoples.

- Válgate God knows, and salty says
what nonsense!

".

XVIII

With the substance restorative lunch, it seemed that resurrected bodies,
and spirits strengthened took flight to the higher regions.

Again installed in the cabinet Ponte Delgado told the delights of
the summer in Madrid at the time.

In the Prado met all the cream and flower. The station went well off the farm. He had visited
more than one Real time site, and had been running the sources.

"And I have not seen anything, nothing! - Obdulia exclaimed sadly, putting his beautiful eyes
a child bereavement -. Believe me, friend Ponte, which would have made me fool, if God had not
given me the ability to figure out the things I've ever seen. Can not you imagine how much I
love flowers, I'm dying for them.

In its time, mama let me have pots on the balcony, then I removed them because one day I watered
so much that rose police and threw us fine. Whenever I pass a garden, I gawk at him. Much I
would like to see those in Valencia, the Farm, in Andalusia! ... Here there are hardly any flowers,
and that we come by rail and arrive limp.

My desire is to admire in the plant.

They say there are so many kinds of roses, I want to see them, Ponte,
I want to smell their aroma.

There are large and small, crimson and white, of many varieties. I would like to see a plant jasmine
great, great, give me shade. And how would I enraptured me, seeing the thousand flowers fall on
my shoulders, and prendérseme in your hair! ... I dream of having a magnificent garden and a
stove ... Ay! these ranges with rare tropical plants and flowers, I would like to see them. I
figure, I watch the ... I am dying of grief for not being able to
possess.

- I've seen - Ponte said - that of D. José Salamanca in
its heyday.

You Figúresela bigger than this house and the next meeting. Just think palm trees and large
ferns height and cones of America with fruit. I think that I'm seeing.

- And me too. All you paint me, I see. Sometimes, dreaming, dreaming, and seeing things do not
exist, that is, exist elsewhere, I wonder: "But it could not happen that one day I had a magnificent
house, elegant lounges, stove ... and that at my table great men sit ... and I spoke with them and
they instruct me? ".

- Why has not it can be? You are very young, Obdulia, and still has much life ahead. All that you
see in dreams, see it as a real possibility to be unlikely. Give you food twenty covered, once
a week, on Wednesdays, on Mondays ... I encourage you, as old dog in society that do not put
more than twenty covered, inviting for those days very chosen people.

- Ah ... well ... best, the cream ...

- Other days, six guests, the guests intimate and nothing more persons of quality, You know
people close to you and to have love and respect.

As you are so beautiful worshipers will ... why can not avoid ... Not fail to be in any danger,
Obdulia. I advise you to be kind to everyone, very fine, very polite, but as soon as PROPASE
any, magazines dignity, and become colder than marble, and disdainful as a queen.

- That's what I thought myself, and I think all the time. I'll be so busy having fun, which I was
not anything bad happen. What a pleasure to go to all the theaters, no operating loss, or concert,
or drama or comedy feature, or release, or anything, Lord, no! Everything I see and enjoy ...
But believe me one thing and say it with heart. Amid all this hubbub, deal and I would enjoy
very much alms, would I go looking for the most destitute poor, to
succor y. ..

Anyway, I do not want there to be poor ... Right, Frasquito, not
be any?

- Certainly, madam.

You are an angel, and with the magic wand of his goodness will disappear all miseries.

- It appears to me that is true what you say. I am. You see what I get: a while ago we talked
about flowers, because I was already attached to the nose has a rich smell. Methinks I'm within
my range, seeing so many beauties, and smelling delicious fragrance. And now when we talked
about poverty relief, I came to say, 'Frasquito, bring a list of
the poor that you know, to start distributing alms.

"

- It quickly becomes, madam - Ponte said caught the imagination delirium, and thinking that should
lead the proposal with the name of the first world's needy Francisco Ponte Delgado.

- But we have to wait - Obdulia added, giving the snout against reality, to return to jump again,
like a rubber ball, and soar to the heights -.

And tell you: in that run by Madrid seeking to alleviate misery, I get tired a lot, right?

- But what do you want your cars? ... I mean, I am assuming that you have a great position.

-
I will accompany you.

- Sure.

- What you see him riding a horse down the Castellana?

- Do not say no. I have been a regular rider.

Not bad government ... Since we have spoken of carriages, I advise you not have garages ...
you mean by a renter. There are those who serve very well. You will remove a lot of headaches.

-
What do you think? - Said Obdulia and unbridled and unrestrained -.

Since I travel Where should I go first, to Germany or Switzerland?

- First to Paris ...

- But I suppose I've already seen Paris ... That's the last nail ...
And I: I say that I'm already in, and again on his way to another
country.

- The lakes of Switzerland are a fine thing.

  It is well for us to remember
that humanity is a long way from being perfect and that a selfish minority in every walk of
life--farming, business, finance and even government service itself--will always continue to
think of themselves first and their fellow-beings second.

In the working out of a great national program which seeks the primary good of the greater
number, it is true that the toes of some people are being stepped on and are going to be stepped
on. But these toes belong to the comparative few who seek to retain or to gain position or
riches or both by some short cut which is harmful to the greater good.

In the execution of the powers conferred on it by Congress, the administration needs and will
tirelessly seek the best ability that the country affords.  Public service offers better rewards
in the opportunity for service than ever before in our history--not great salaries, but enough
to live on.  In the building of this service there are coming to us men and women with ability
and courage from every part of the Union.  The days of the seeking of mere party advantage
through the misuse of public power are drawing to a close.  We are increasingly demanding and
getting devotion to the public service on the part of every member of the administration, high
and low.

The program of the past year is definitely in operation and that operation month by month is
being made to fit into the web of old and new conditions.  This process of evolution is well
illustrated by the constant changes in detailed organization and method going on in the National
Recovery Administration.  With every passing month we are making strides in the orderly handling
of the relationship between employees and employers.  Conditions differ, of course, in almost
every part of the country and in almost every industry.  Temporary methods of adjustment are
being replaced by more permanent machinery and, I am glad to say, by a growing recognition
on the part of employers and employees of the desirability of maintaining fair relationships
all around.

So also, while almost everybody has recognized the tremendous strides in the elimination of
child labor, in the payment of not less than fair minimum wages and in the shortening of hours,
we are still feeling our way in solving problems which relate to self- government in industry,
especially where such self-government tends to eliminate the fair operation of competition.

In this same process of evolution we are keeping before us the objectives of protecting on
the one hand industry against chiselers within its own ranks, and on the other hand the consumer
through the maintenance of reasonable competition for the prevention of the unfair sky-rocketing
of retail prices.

But, in addition to this our immediate task, we must still look to the larger future.  I have
pointed out to the Congress that we are seeking to find the way once more to well-known, long-established
but to some degree forgotten ideals and values.  We seek the security of the men, women and
children of the nation.

That security involves added means of providing better homes for the people of the nation.
That is the first principle of our future program.

The second is to plan the use of land and water resources of this country to the end that the
means of livelihood of our citizens may be more adequate to meet their daily needs.

And, finally, the third principle is to use the agencies of government to assist in the establishment
of means to provide sound and adequate protection against the vicissitudes of modern life--in
other words, social insurance.

Later in the year I hope to talk with you more fully about these plans.

A few timid people, who fear progress, will try to give you new and strange names for what
we are doing.  Sometimes they will call it "Fascism", sometimes "Communism", sometimes "Regimentation",
sometimes "Socialism".  But, in so doing, they are trying to make very complex and theoretical
something that is really very simple and very practical.

I believe in practical explanations and in practical policies.  I believe that what we are
doing today is a necessary fulfillment of what Americans have always been doing--a fulfillment
of old and tested American ideals.

Let me give you a simple illustration:

While I am away from Washington this summer, a long needed renovation of and addition to our
White House office building is to be started.  The architects have planned a few new rooms
built into the present all too small one-story structure.  We are going to include in this
addition and in this renovation modern electric wiring and modern plumbing and modern means
of keeping the offices cool in the hot Washington summers.  But the structural lines of the
old Executive Office Building will remain.  The artistic lines of the White House buildings
were the creation of master builders when our Republic was young.  The simplicity and the strength
of the structure remain in the face of every modern test.  But within this magnificent pattern,
the necessities of modern government business require constant reorganization and rebuilding.

If I were to listen to the arguments of some prophets of calamity who are talking these days,
I should hesitate to make these alterations.  I should fear that while I am away for a few
weeks the architects might build some strange new Gothic tower or a factory building or perhaps
a replica of the Kremlin or of the Potsdam Palace.  But I have no such fears.  The architects
and builders are men of common sense and of artistic American tastes.  They know that the principles
of harmony and of necessity itself require that the building of the new structure shall blend
with the essential lines of the old.  It is this combination of the old and the new that marks
orderly peaceful progress--not only in building buildings but in building government itself.

Our new structure is a part of and a fulfillment of the old.

All that we do seeks to fulfill the historic traditions of the American people.  Other nations
may sacrifice democracy for the transitory stimulation of old and discredited autocracies.
We are restoring confidence and well-being under the rule of the people themselves.  We remain,
as John Marshall said a century ago, "emphatically and truly, a government of the people."
Our government "in form and in substance. . . emanates from them.  Its powers are granted by
them, and are to be exercised directly on them, and for their benefits."

Before I close, I want to tell you of the interest and pleasure with which I look forward to
the trip on which I hope to start in a few days.  It is a good thing for everyone who can possibly
do so to get away at least once a year for a change of scene.  I do not want to get into the
position of not being able to see the forest because of the thickness of the trees.

I hope to visit our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico, in the Virgin Islands, in the Canal Zone
and in Hawaii.  And, incidentally, it will give me an opportunity to exchange a friendly word
of greeting to the Presidents of our sister Republics:  Haiti, Colombia and Panama.

After four weeks on board ship, I plan to land at a port in our Pacific northwest, and then
will come the best part of the whole trip, for I am hoping to inspect a number of our new great
national projects on the Columbia, Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, to see some of our national
parks and, incidentally, to learn much of actual conditions during the trip across the continent
back to Washington.

While I was in France during the War our boys used to call the United States "God's country".
Let us make it and keep it "God's country".

September 30, 1934.

Three months have passed since I talked with you shortly after the adjournment of the Congress.
Tonight I continue that report, though, because of the shortness of time, I must defer a number
of subjects to a later date.

Recently the most notable public questions that have concerned us all have had to do with industry
and labor and with respect to these, certain developments have taken place which I consider
of importance.  I am happy to report that after years of uncertainty, culminating in the collapse
of the spring of 1933, we are bringing order out of the old chaos with a greater certainty
of the employment of labor at a reasonable wage and of more business at a fair profit.  These
governmental and industrial developments hold promise of new achievements for the nation.

Men may differ as to the particular form of governmental activity with respect to industry
and business, but nearly all are agreed that private enterprise in times such as these cannot
be left without assistance and without reasonable safeguards lest it destroy not only itself
but also our processes of civilization.  The underlying necessity for such activity is indeed
as strong now as it was years ago when Elihu Root said the following very significant words:

"Instead of the give and take of free individual contract, the tremendous power of organization
has combined great aggregations of capital in enormous industrial establishments working through
vast agencies of commerce and employing great masses of men in movements of production and
transportation and trade, so great in the mass that each individual concerned in them is quite
helpless by himself.  The relations between the employer and the employed, between the owners
of aggregated capital and the units of organized labor, between the small producer, the small
trader, the consumer, and the great transporting and manufacturing and distributing agencies,
all present new questions for the solution of which the old reliance upon the free action of
individual wills appears quite inadequate.  And in many directions, the intervention of that
organized control which we call government seems necessary to produce the same result of justice
and right conduct which obtained through the attrition of individuals before the new conditions
arose."

It was in this spirit thus described by Secretary Root that we approached our task of reviving
private enterprise in March, 1933. Our first problem was, of course, the banking situation
because, as you know, the banks had collapsed.  Some banks could not be saved but the great
majority of them, either through their own resources or with government aid, have been restored
to complete public confidence.  This has given safety to millions of depositors in these banks.
Closely following this great constructive effort we have, through various federal agencies,
saved debtors and creditors alike in many other fields of enterprise, such as loans on farm
mortgages and home mortgages; loans to the railroads and insurance companies and, finally,
help for home owners and industry itself.

In all of these efforts the government has come to the assistance of business and with the
full expectation that the money used to assist these enterprises will eventually be repaid.
I believe it will be.

The second step we have taken in the restoration of normal business enterprise has been to
clean up thoroughly unwholesome conditions in the field of investment.  In this we have had
assistance from many bankers and businessmen, most of whom recognize the past evils in the
banking system, in the sale of securities, in the deliberate encouragement of stock gambling,
in the sale of unsound mortgages and in many other ways in which the public lost billions of
dollars.  They saw that without changes in the policies and methods of investment there could
be no recovery of public confidence in the security of savings.  The country now enjoys the
safety of bank savings under the new banking laws, the careful checking of new securities under
the Securities Act and the curtailment of rank stock speculation through the Securities Exchange
Act.  I sincerely hope that as a result people will be discouraged in unhappy efforts to get
rich quick by speculating in securities.  The average person almost always loses.  Only a very
small minority of the people of this country believe in gambling as a substitute for the old
philosophy of Benjamin Franklin that the way to wealth is through work.

In meeting the problems of industrial recovery the chief agency of the government has been
the National Recovery Administration.  Under its guidance, trades and industries covering over
90 percent of all industrial employees have adopted codes of fair competition, which have been
approved by the President.  Under these codes, in the industries covered, child labor has been
eliminated.  The work day and the work week have been shortened.  Minimum wages have been established
and other wages adjusted toward a rising standard of living.  The emergency purpose of the
N.R.A. was to put men to work and since its creation more than four million persons have been
reemployed, in great part through the cooperation of American business brought about under
the codes.

Benefits of the Industrial Recovery Program have come, not only to labor in the form of new
jobs, in relief from overwork and in relief from underpay, but also to the owners and managers
of industry because, together with a great increase in the payrolls, there has come a substantial
rise in the total of industrial profits--a rise from a deficit figure in the first quarter
of 1933 to a level of sustained profits within one year from the inauguration of N.R.A.

Now it should not be expected that even employed labor and capital would be completely satisfied
with present conditions.  Employed workers have not by any means all enjoyed a return to the
earnings of prosperous times, although millions of hitherto underprivileged workers are today
far better paid than ever before.  Also, billions of dollars of invested capital have today
a greater security of present and future earning power than before.  This is because of the
establishment of fair, competitive standards and because of relief from unfair competition
in wage cutting which depresses markets and destroys purchasing power.  But it is an undeniable
fact that the restoration of other billions of sound investments to a reasonable earning power
could not be brought about in one year. There is no magic formula, no economic panacea, which
could simply revive over-night the heavy industries and the trades dependent upon them.

Nevertheless the gains of trade and industry, as a whole, have been substantial.  In these
gains and in the policies of the administration there are assurances that hearten all forward-
looking men and women with the confidence that we are definitely rebuilding our political and
economic system on the lines laid down by the New Deal--lines which as I have so often made
clear, are in complete accord with the underlying principles of orderly popular government
which Americans have demanded since the white man first came to these shores.  We count, in
the future as in the past, on the driving power of individual initiative and the incentive
of fair private profit, strengthened with the acceptance of those obligations to the public
interest which rest upon us all.  We have the right to expect that this driving power will
be given patriotically and whole-heartedly to our nation.

We have passed through the formative period of code making in the National Recovery Administration
and have effected a reorganization of the N.R.A. suited to the needs of the next phase, which
is, in turn, a period of preparation for legislation which will determine its permanent form.

In this recent reorganization we have recognized three distinct functions:  first, the legislative
or policy making function; second, the administrative function of code making and revision;
and, third, the judicial function, which includes enforcement, consumer complaints and the
settlement of disputes between employers and employees and between one employer and another.

We are now prepared to move into this second phase, on the basis of our experience in the first
phase under the able and energetic leadership of General Johnson.

We shall watch carefully the working of this new machinery for the second phase of N.R.A.,
modifying it where it needs modification and finally making recommendations to the Congress,
in order that the functions of N.R.A. which have proved their worth may be made a part of the
permanent machinery of government.

Let me call your attention to the fact that the national Industrial Recovery Act gave businessmen
the opportunity they had sought for years to improve business conditions through what has been
called self-government in industry.  If the codes which have been written have been too complicated,
if they have gone too far in such matters as price fixing and limitation of production, let
it be remembered that so far as possible, consistent with the immediate public interest of
this past year and the vital necessity of improving labor conditions, the representatives of
trade and industry were permitted to write their ideas into the codes.  It is now time to review
these actions as a whole to determine through deliberative means in the light of experience,
from the standpoint of the good of the industries themselves, as well as the general public
interest, whether the methods and policies adopted in the emergency have been best calculated
to promote industrial recovery and a permanent improvement of business and labor conditions.
There may be a serious question as to the wisdom of many of those devices to control production,
or to prevent destructive price cutting which many business organizations have insisted were
necessary, or whether their effect may have been to prevent that volume of production which
would make possible lower prices and increased employment.  Another question arises as to whether
in fixing minimum wages on the basis of an hourly or weekly wage we have reached into the heart
of the problem which is to provide such annual earnings for the lowest paid worker as will
meet his minimum needs.  We also question the wisdom of extending code requirements suited
to the great industrial centers and to large employers, to the great number of small employers
in the smaller communities.

During the last twelve months our industrial recovery has been to some extent retarded by strikes,
including a few of major importance.  I would not minimize the inevitable losses to employers
and employees and to the general public through such conflicts.  But I would point out that
the extent and severity of labor disputes during this period has been far less than in any
previous, comparable period.

When the businessmen of the country were demanding the right to organize themselves adequately
to promote their legitimate interests; when the farmers were demanding legislation which would
give them opportunities and incentives to organize themselves for a common advance, it was
natural that the workers should seek and obtain a statutory declaration of their constitutional
right to organize themselves for collective bargaining as embodied in Section 7 (a) of the
national Industrial Recovery Act.

Machinery set up by the federal government has provided some new methods of adjustment.  Both
employers and employees must share the blame of not using them as fully as they should.  The
employer who turns away from impartial agencies of peace, who denies freedom of organization
to his employees, or fails to make every reasonable effort at a peaceful solution of their
differences, is not fully supporting the recovery effort of his government.  The workers who
turn away from these same impartial agencies and decline to use their good offices to gain
their ends are likewise not fully cooperating with their government.

It is time that we made a clean-cut effort to bring about that united action of management
and labor, which is one of the high purposes of the Recovery Act.  We have passed through more
than a year of education.  Step by step we have created all the government agencies necessary
to insure, as a general rule, industrial peace, with justice for all those willing to use these
agencies whenever their voluntary bargaining fails to produce a necessary agreement.

There should be at least a full and fair trial given to these means of ending industrial warfare;
and in such an effort we should be able to secure for employers and employees and consumers
the benefits that all derive from the continuous, peaceful operation of our essential enterprises.

Accordingly, I propose to confer within the coming month with small groups of those truly representative
of large employers of labor and of large groups of organized labor, in order to seek their
cooperation in establishing what I may describe as a specific trial period of industrial peace.

From those willing to join in establishing this hoped-for period of peace, I shall seek assurances
of the making and maintenance of agreements, which can be mutually relied upon, under which
wages, hours and working conditions may be determined and any later adjustments shall be made
either by agreement or, in case of disagreement, through the mediation or arbitration of state
or federal agencies.  I shall not ask either employers or employees permanently to lay aside
the weapons common to industrial war.  But I shall ask both groups to give a fair trial to
peaceful methods of adjusting their conflicts of opinion and interest, and to experiment for
a reasonable time with measures suitable to civilize our industrial civilization.

Closely allied to the N.R.A. is the program of Public Works provided for in the same Act and
designed to put more men back to work, both directly on the public works themselves, and indirectly
in the industries supplying the materials for these public works. To those who say that our
expenditures for public works and other means for recovery are a waste that we cannot afford,
I answer that no country, however rich, can afford the waste of its human resources.  Demoralization
caused by vast unemployment is our greatest extravagance.  Morally, it is the greatest menace
to our social order.  Some people try to tell me that we must make up our minds that for the
future we shall permanently have millions of unemployed just as other countries have had them
for over a decade. What may be necessary for those countries is not my responsibility to determine.
But as for this country, I stand or fall by my refusal to accept as a necessary condition of
our future a permanent army of unemployed.  On the contrary, we must make it a national principle
that we will not tolerate a large army of unemployed and that we will arrange our national
economy to end our present unemployment as soon as we can and then to take wise measures against
its return.  I do not want to think that it is the destiny of any American to remain permanently
on relief rolls.

Those, fortunately few in number, who are frightened by boldness and cowed by the necessity
for making decisions, complain that all we have done is unnecessary and subject to great risks.
Now that these people are coming out of their storm cellars, they forget that there ever was
a storm.  They point to England.  They would have you believe that England has made progress
out of her depression by a do-nothing policy, by letting nature take her course.  England has
her peculiarities and we have ours but I do not believe any intelligent observer can accuse
England of undue orthodoxy in the present emergency.

Did England let nature take her course?  No.  Did England hold to the gold standard when her
reserves were threatened?  No.  Has England gone back to the gold standard today?  No.  Did
England hesitate to call in ten billion dollars of her war bonds bearing 5 percent interest,
to issue new bonds therefore bearing only 3-1/2 percent interest, thereby saving the British
treasury one hundred and fifty million dollars a year in interest alone?  No.  And let it be
recorded that the British bankers helped.  Is it not a fact that ever since the year 1909,
Great Britain in many ways has advanced further along lines of social security than the United
States?  Is it not a fact that relations between capital and labor on the basis of collective
bargaining are much further advanced in Great Britain than in the United States?  It is perhaps
not strange that the conservative British press has told us with pardonable irony that much
of our New Deal program is only an attempt to catch up with English reforms that go back ten
years or more.

Nearly all Americans are sensible and calm people.  We do not get greatly excited nor is our
peace of mind disturbed, whether we be businessmen or workers or farmers, by awesome pronouncements
concerning the unconstitutionality of some of our measures of recovery and relief and reform.
We are not frightened by reactionary lawyers or political editors.  All of these cries have
been heard before.  More than twenty years ago, when Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson
were attempting to correct abuses in our national life, the great Chief Justice White said:

"There is great danger it seems to me to arise from the constant habit which prevails where
anything is opposed or objected to, of referring without rhyme or reason to the Constitution
as a means of preventing its accomplishment, thus creating the general impression that the
Constitution is but a barrier to progress instead of being the broad highway through which
alone true progress may be enjoyed."

In our efforts for recovery we have avoided on the one hand the theory that business should
and must be taken over into an all- embracing government.  We have avoided on the other hand
the equally untenable theory that it is an interference with liberty to offer reasonable help
when private enterprise is in need of help.  The course we have followed fits the American
practice of government--a practice of taking action step by step, of regulating only to meet
concrete needs--a practice of courageous recognition of change.  I believe with Abraham Lincoln,
that "The legitimate object of government is to do for a community of people whatever they
need to have done but cannot do at all or cannot do so well for themselves in their separate
and individual capacities."

I am not for a return to that definition of liberty under which for many years a free people
were being gradually regimented into the service of the privileged few.  I prefer and I am
sure you prefer that broader definition of liberty under which we are moving forward to greater
freedom, to greater security for the average man than he has ever known before in the history
of America.

April 28, 1935.

Since my annual message to the Congress on January fourth, last, I have not addressed the general
public over the air.  In the many weeks since that time the Congress has devoted itself to
the arduous task of formulating legislation necessary to the country's welfare.  It has made
and is making distinct progress.

Before I come to any of the specific measures, however, I want to leave in your minds one clear
fact.  The administration and the Congress are not proceeding in any haphazard fashion in this
task of government.  Each of our steps has a definite relationship to every other step.  The
job of creating a program for the nation's welfare is, in some respects, like the building
of a ship.  At different points on the coast where I often visit they build great seagoing
ships.  When one of these ships is under construction and the steel frames have been set in
the keel, it is difficult for a person who does not know ships to tell how it will finally
look when it is sailing the high seas.

It may seem confused to some, but out of the multitude of detailed parts that go into the making
of the structure the creation of a useful instrument for man ultimately comes.  It is that
way with the making of a national policy.  The objective of the nation has greatly changed
in three years.  Before that time individual self- interest and group selfishness were paramount
in public thinking. The general good was at a discount.

Three years of hard thinking have changed the picture.  More and more people, because of clearer
thinking and a better understanding, are considering the whole rather than a mere part relating
to one section or to one crop, or to one industry, or to an individual private occupation.
That is a tremendous gain for the principles of democracy.  The overwhelming majority of people
in this country know how to sift the wheat from the chaff in what they hear and what they read.
They know that the process of the constructive rebuilding of America cannot be done in a day
or a year, but that it is being done in spite of the few who seek to confuse them and to profit
by their confusion.  Americans as a whole are feeling a lot better--a lot more cheerful than
for many, many years.

The most difficult place in the world to get a clear open perspective of the country as a whole
is Washington.  That is why I occasionally leave this scene of action for a few days to go
fishing or back home to Hyde Park, so that I can have a chance to think quietly about the country
as a whole.  "To get away from the trees", as they say, "and to look at the whole forest."
This duty of seeing the country in a long-range perspective is one which, in a very special
manner, attaches to this office to which you have chosen me.  Did you ever stop to think that
there are, after all, only two positions in the nation that are filled by the vote of all of
the voters--the President and the Vice-President?  That makes it particularly necessary for
the Vice- President and for me to conceive of our duty toward the entire country.  I speak,
therefore, tonight, to and of the American people as a whole.

My most immediate concern is in carrying out the purposes of the great work program just enacted
by the Congress.  Its first objective is to put men and women now on the relief rolls to work
and, incidentally, to assist materially in our already unmistakable march toward recovery.
I shall not confuse my discussion by a multitude of figures.  So many figures are quoted to
prove so many things.  Sometimes it depends upon what paper you read and what broadcast you
hear.  Therefore, let us keep our minds on two or three simple, essential facts in connection
with this problem of unemployment.  It is true that while business and industry are definitely
better our relief rolls are still too large.  However, for the first time in five years the
relief rolls have declined instead of increased during the winter months.  They are still declining.
The simple fact is that many million more people have private work today than two years ago
today or one year ago today, and every day that passes offers more chances to work for those
who want to work.  In spite of the fact that unemployment remains a serious problem here as
in every other nation, we have come to recognize the possibility and the necessity of certain
helpful remedial measures.  These measures are of two kinds.  The first is to make provisions
intended to relieve, to minimize, and to prevent future unemployment; the second is to establish
the practical means to help those who are unemployed in this present emergency.  Our social
security legislation is an attempt to answer the first of these questions; our Works Relief
program, the second.

The program for social security now pending before the Congress is a necessary part of the
future unemployment policy of the government.  While our present and projected expenditures
for work relief are wholly within the reasonable limits of our national credit resources, it
is obvious that we cannot continue to create governmental deficits for that purpose year after
year.  We must begin now to make provision for the future.  That is why our social security
program is an important part of the complete picture.  It proposes, by means of old age pensions,
to help those who have reached the age of retirement to give up their jobs and thus give to
the younger generation greater opportunities for work and to give to all a feeling of security
as they look toward old age.

The unemployment insurance part of the legislation will not only help to guard the individual
in future periods of lay-off against dependence upon relief, but it will, by sustaining purchasing
power, cushion the shock of economic distress.  Another helpful feature of unemployment insurance
is the incentive it will give to employers to plan more carefully in order that unemployment
may be prevented by the stabilizing of employment itself.

Provisions for social security, however, are protections for the future.  Our responsibility
for the immediate necessities of the unemployed has been met by the Congress through the most
comprehensive work plan in the history of the nation.  Our problem is to put to work three
and one-half million employable persons now on the relief rolls.  It is a problem quite as
much for private industry as for the government.

We are losing no time getting the government's vast work relief program underway, and we have
every reason to believe that it should be in full swing by autumn.  In directing it, I shall
recognize six fundamental principles:

(1) The projects should be useful.

(2) Projects shall be of a nature that a considerable proportion of the money spent will go
into wages for labor.

(3) Projects will be sought which promise ultimate return to the federal treasury of a considerable
proportion of the costs.

(4) Funds allotted for each project should be actually and promptly spent and not held over
until later years.

(5) In all cases projects must be of a character to give employment to those on the relief rolls.

(6) Projects will be allocated to localities or relief areas in relation to the number of workers
on relief rolls in those areas.

I next want to make it clear exactly how we shall direct the work.

(1) I have set up a Division of Applications and Information to which all proposals for the
expenditure of money must go for preliminary study and consideration.

(2) After the Division of Applications and Information has sifted those projects, they will
be sent to an Allotment Division composed of representatives of the more important governmental
agencies charged with carrying on work relief projects.  The group will also include representatives
of cities, and of labor, farming, banking and industry. A few days to this part do not you drop by the hand. What's your hurry? Did
not have come to Passages for me? ... In addition, I note that something distracted you, that
always crosses a deep wrinkle your forehead, a sign of serious meditations ... to meet you yesterday
and today a little haggard ...

- Well, do not bring bad crib with
my face! - He said smiling under this smile shone through anger.

Indeed, the generally explore all the time Miguel's face as the sailor on the time. Sometimes
he was pale, sometimes weary, other melancholy, some overly cheerful; never failed to have something
that catches your attention. This eternal and scrupulous inspection I was flattered at first, then
I got bored a little, and had recently become irritated.

- And why you're angry, ungrateful! - Said Lucy .-- If I see your face, you do not look more than her,
everything else seems irrelevant ... Your face is the book where
I read my happiness or my misfortune.

Although it did not cause any impression metaphors of the General's love, Michael softened.

- I can not, Lucia ... If your taste trasformarte at a light and note
all the variations I experience, what do we do?

It is a test of love that I thank you.

The General thought he should continue with the same subject.

- You can not imagine, Miguel, I suffer when I see you sad, what joy when you happy ... If
you only knew! ... Al through your smile I see the world smiling, beautiful, I think the sky is always
blue, evergreen and rondoso field, and that men are all happy ... Oh, if you did, I'm sure he
would smile as long as you do now! Is not it true? ... Sometimes I rush a few thoughts so sad!
Imagination excited by love, takes many turns ... If Michael were to die! I tell myself. This
idea kills me, let me stiff, as if the sky is falling ... If you you were to die, what would the
poor Lucia? Also die of grief, and if not die, too bad for her ... I do not want to think about
it, Michael, because all saddens me. There would be no happiness possible on earth: only your
sweet memory might lend some comfort at times.

Oh, I swear that if you were to die, would keep your image in the heart until the hour of my death,
and beyond, if possible, would live in spirit with me every day, every day, without missing one,
go to visit the cemetery on your grave and leave a bunch of flowers ...

The General had used this resource many times, always with the same
success.

A Miguel Grace did not like in these gloomy ideas and tried to steer the conversation to another
point.

This time the Court lifted the couch where the two were sitting down and taking his hat. To
alleviate a bit the bad effect of this sudden movement, approached
the lady smiling and lovingly stroked her face.

- I have a letter
to the newspaper started ... I need to finish before he leaves the
post.

Farewell, my love ...

That my love was delivered in a distracted, routine, which would have mortified the Generally,
if it were not common in her speech also caress her lover.

- How quickly! Has just been with me two hours.

- Tomorrow will try to spend more time ... Today I can not.

Lucia got up too and threw her arms around the mime before. Miguel endured that embrace and
even made efforts to be excited.

- Wait a little - said the general's pulling away and taking a bunch that were on the fire
.-- Take these flowers, put them in front of you when you write, so when you lift your head remember
your Lucia.

Miguel took the bouquet and kissed him mechanically, as was his custom whenever generala gave
him some object in memory, then said goodbye.

Leaving the Challet had less oppressed heart on leaving Romeo Juliet that famous night that
the reader will surely know, but its path was at least as light. Wanted to reach the ninth time
in San Ramon Nonnato to be held for days in the church of San Pedro. Maximina saw there, which
was bound by a sympathy irresistible. And you most excited about was that she had accepted
her love without that reservation that the fear of being deceived state requires the girls, when
a young superior status goes to celebrate. Maxi was his girlfriend had no need to overcome scruples
and cautions that the calculation or evil thought enters the affecting them. He gave his heart with innocence,
like a natural thing or could not be otherwise. The only thing that made her hesitate at first
was the surprise to be directed it in preference to other young people who went around town
for much nicer, a Once convinced that it had the bad taste to find beautiful or at least sympathetic,
no far found little difference in wealth or imagined that anything
could be nothing but a pure and frivolous pastime for the young stranger.

He opened his mind love with the innocence that the flower opens its cup to the sun. And that shy
girl, melancholy and reflective, in a few days had experienced remarkable transfiguration,
joy brimming with his soul on to her attractive face did not have before, thanks to their movements,
sound to her laugh, brighten your word. This change could not pass unnoticed by anyone but Miguel
least. Observolo with pleasure, the pleasure of the artist looking at the work output of their
hands, was another incentive to stay in love without counting the fatal consequences that this could
bring honest flirtation.

When he was away from the general's house, near the shore and where Ursula was waiting with his
boat, took a look at bouquet in her hand, and thought it was great
annoying to lead the church, saying: - Where am I going with this
load of grass! - what onto the floor, and quickly followed his way
without thinking about it.

The ninth of San Ramon attracted many people to the church of San Pedro. It was a large temple,
dirty and dark until day: night, with four or five oil lamps hung here and there over long distances
gave a sinister aspect. But now the canopy of lights that burned around the image glad a very
wide circle where protruding heads of the pious women who were placed in first row. Miguel used
to enter the church through the sacristy door, and from there, taking a little head, looked across
the illuminated portion of the temple.

Maxi and her aunt were accommodated there in front, near a bench to sit at intervals rest. The
girl, imbued with a keen religious sentiment, not daring to look at Miguel; believed profane the majesty
of God's house. However, occasionally, in rare rare, authorized the raising of the eyes and throw a
quick and serious gaze, regretting I did immediately. In our youth that made him enjoy more
shy and very fast look that hot and prolonged than other women more
beautiful and more attractive had lying in the course of his life.

Although long-distance, observed this afternoon that Maxi's face was not the same other days, the melancholy,
always scattered about him, had become the deep sadness; their eyes were more frequent and
longer, and around his eyes slightly red circle clearly accused the tears spill. What happened?
he asked anxiously. Does be scolded his aunt? And wishes to conclude the ninth soon to know.

It
was dark when they left the church.

The young stranger used to wait Dona Rosalia and her niece on the porch, holy water and offer
to accompany them home in conjunction with other neighbors, which allowed him to catch up
with his girlfriend and holding her conversation apart.

All this idyllic breathed a sense of gentle happiness, which, in
contrast their refined courtly love, was causing him great delight.

After having directed insignificant questions, to which the girl
replied with a sweet and subdued voice, little more subdued than usual,
he asked bluntly:

- What is it?

... Looks like you're sad and you cried (the secret had been tuteaba
few days: she did not dare to do it occasionally, when the young man
as strongly required.)

Maximina walked in silence.

- Do you have
fought your aunt?

- No.

Was silent.

After a moment, his face getting closer, he observed that some large tears rolled down her cheeks.

-
Are you crying?

... Why? - Asked anxiously.

- Do not cry ... is not - "she lifted her eyes towards him smiling,
but cloudy with tears.

- You cry, yes, and I want to know why.

I think I have a right to it ... if I want, as you say.

It took some work still wrest their secret. At length she vented her breast and His voice cut through
the sobs:

- Today have been Paul and Second home and took me to the store before
coming Joaquina to the ninth ... and there began to make fun of me
... I said something so bad!

- What did they say?

- That V. was
laughing at me and just seemed to love me for some fun ... That how
I could figure out a rich and elegant young man had to marry me ...

-
"All that you have said? - Miguel said with irritation deaf .-- Nothing
else?

- They also told me V. I had a girlfriend ... a lady who lives
there in the way of France and that was V. to see every day ... It
seems that they came for me especially designed to this knife!

-
I do not have told you the truth.

The girl looked at him with pleading eyes.

- There's just a little difficult for this writer, who visited many days, is my girlfriend ... and
that the lady is married.

Michael had fully penetrated the soul of the child: that's why I presented
this as a impasse.

Indeed, Maximina opened more eyes expressing surprise; demanded that
the young man I swear, and once made the oath, a ray of joy illumined
his face.

- But how bad are these girls! - Exclaimed, clasping her
hands .-- Do not be afraid that God the punishment?

Miguel has sought to persuade them to not believe anything that's to say about him, thousand
protests made sincere affection, and managed to get home before dissipating the clouds that
veiled his face. Upon arrival, immediately Maximina despojose blanket and went to the kitchen,
where our young followed.

It was an hour very busy for the child: dinner host boys and many preparations required: the
maid was responsible only seasoning of the dishes, Dona Rosalia account
of the tobacconist.

Maximina lit dining lamp and put the cloth on the table: Miguel's still with his eyes: she lifted
occasionally his and sent a smile to show him the confidence he had in his words and how happy
he had done with them. Once set the table, returned to kitchen.

- We need to clean the dishes - she said the maid with the bitter tone he always used.

- Has he scrubbed V. ya?

- If I had not scrubbed, how he had to clean? What a start!

- Do not bother, Rufa - said the girl a bit shortened.

And taking a towel, sat down calmly to dry the dishes.

Miguel sat near her.

- I will tell VV. a story - said that taking another cloth for drying dishes and putting Traveling
.-- also a friend of mine from China, many years ago, told me he had come evening at a village called
Cerdópolis. As he was inside and was not surprised the name it had, not only pigs were everywhere,
in gardens, streets and even inside houses, in short, could not take a step without bumping into
any of these animaluchos.

- What smell would be there, my mother! - Maxi said.

- Atrocious! I said you could not breathe. It happened that he was taken to the home of one of
leaders of the people, but most of the houses, even of the rich, had no more rooms to the kitchen
and bedrooms. The owner introduced him to their daughters, some girls pretty ugly, with eyes
bent and feet very young ... In short, VV. have already seen some Chinese. They seemed friendly, and
my friend was very pleased with the reception they did. It was not so happy with the mother,
wife of our Chinese.

It was an old woman who was next onion chopping the fire and is now Rufa.

Maxi looked up the cook and then turned to Michael with an expression between naive and malicious,
suspecting a joke.

- When my friend went to her asking how health was not answered more that hum! even without looking
up. My friend looked surprised her husband and daughters, as saying, What have I done to this
lady to get me this? But the same him that they, rather than ashamed, looked up to heaven in a
gesture of resignation surprised him even more. They went to dinner, and my friend at dinner
and after she tried to win the sympathies, or at least the benevolence of the woman, lavishing
directing much attention and often the word. All to no avail: China's answer with his usual
grunt, or all over, with a monosyllable that revealed his temper. The husband and daughters
were happy to make the gesture of resignation and pain that every was marveling once more to the traveler.
After spending some time on desktop, he went to rest.

When morning rose, the family found very sad and as appalled.

Then asked them why they went forward bad.

- The poor mother! "- Said one of the girls.

- What happened?

Are you sick? - Asked.

- There she V.

- Where? - Said looking all around, without seeing a trace of China.

- There.

- But where?

- That pig has V. ahead.

- What! - Said my friend, believing that the Chinese had gone mad.

- Yes, sir, we knew at home this week could not happen. You, sir, apparently, do not know what
happens in this town ...

The Chinese then explained that in that
town had a disease, unfortunately very common, cerdofalgia named,
and that was the transfiguration of man into a pig.

Hence the vast number of pigs encountered on the streets. The first symptom of this disease was
bad humor: in the first degree, patients could be cured as the consumptive,
and Indeed, where one was attacked, were used to return to health
thousand kinds of parties and rejoicing, in which the whole family
took part.

Some saved, but most passed the second period, called "silence," because they spoke very little,
yet in this degree except one another. But if unfortunately entered the period of the "grunts"
time was lost thing: after some time, came the transfiguration. His wife was and two months
he was in third grade.

My friend was stunned and realized why when grunting housewife gestures
were all resignation.

At the end of his story Miguel, Maxi made superhuman efforts to contain
the laughter that escaped her mouth, seeing what had piqued that Rufa.

At that time Dona Rosalia came another lady of the same trace. Miguel left to see them hastily
and the dish cloth in her hands, lest they should see him busy task as unmanly. After changing
a few words, Maxi, without realizing what he did, he handed two plates saying

- No longer are we more than seven.

But the young man, embarrassed and very angry, they are rejected.

- Let V. .. V. Let that.

The girl blushed and cried faintly confused:

- As in the past helped me! ...

XV

"My dear sister: - Michael wrote Julia - I wonder why I stay so long in this little town, and
suppose, unwisely, I'll spend most of it in San Sebastian. Also do some reluctance that I dislike,
because they are not good in the mouth or pen from a child as innocent as you are and hope that
you remain. You're wrong on all your hypothesis. Tickets remain in (and you can start to laugh)
because I'm in love my landlady's niece. It's a girl (still laughing) that bypasses pretty nor
graceful, nor has talent, and a good education. I love what I do not know, perhaps the soul, but
not sure. What I can say is that no woman (except you) as I think so cute, so friendly and
so well educated. Has not yet reached ten and six years. If you saw what is good and humble!
Is so convinced of his insignificance, I have done as Jesus Christ; wanting to be the last, high
at first. Has spent two years in a convent Vergara and when I arrived, I was determined to
become a nun: now we went to walk the Monji. This not mean that there was a good religious Maximina,
as it is called in any state and condition of life would be good, because that God made. I spend
my times as listening to a fool, when he tells his life as a schoolgirl: the nonadas and childishness
of companions, who tells me with great warmth, delight me just as the novel more interesting:
I already know all the sisters of the school as if they had given birth, is a sister St. Onofre,
eighteen years old, beautiful, educated, but very short temper, in the convent all the world feared more
than the superior, just imagine that a girl, because expressed disgust
at glass of another, made to eat the leftovers of all the other on
a plate! There is another called Mary Relief of the same age as Maxi,
very sweet, very shy, when girls entangled in class, not having the
courage to reñirlas or punish, she started to mourn. But love my girl
was the sister San Sulpicio, an Andalusian beautiful, graceful and
attractive; four girls were madly in love with her, but which bore
the palm and reached to be her favorite after some time, was Maximina,
but the sister, who was a apparently little flirty, sometimes took
pleasure in showing great coolness mortify or adopting a continent
with her severe, until seeing his face saddened, she started laughed
and gently tugged his ear, calling it silly. One day he came up to
order move to this sister to another convent, secretly left without
saying goodbye. Who Maxi Tells? wondered all schoolgirls. Finally
a more talkative and less well intentioned than the others, it reported
sharply, my daughter received a strong blow to the heart, but tried
to hold back, because he was ashamed to burst into tears in front
of her classmates: this effort on itself cost him dearly, because
after a while she felt sick and had to unbutton dress hastily, lest
they drown.  Remember that the federal and state governments have done only broad planning.
Actual work on a given project originates in the local community.  Local needs are listed from
local information.  Local projects are decided on only after obtaining the recommendations
and help of those in the local community who are best able to give it.  And it is worthy of
note that on my entire trip, though I asked the question dozens of times, I heard no complaint
against the character of a single work relief project.

The elected heads of the states concerned, together with their state officials and their experts
from agricultural colleges and state planning boards, have shown cooperation with and approval
of the work which the federal government has headed.  I am grateful also to the men and women
in all these states who have accepted leadership in the work in their locality.

In the drought area people are not afraid to use new methods to meet changes in Nature, and
to correct mistakes of the past.  If overgrazing has injured range lands, they are willing
to reduce the grazing.  If certain wheat lands should be returned to pasture they are willing
to cooperate.  If trees should be planted as windbreaks or to stop erosion they will work with
us.  If terracing or summer fallowing or crop rotation is called for, they will carry them
out. They stand ready to fit, and not to fight, the ways of Nature.

We are helping, and shall continue to help the farmer to do those things, through local soil
conservation committees and other cooperative local, state and federal agencies of government.

I have not the time tonight to deal with other and more comprehensive agricultural policies.

With this fine help we are tiding over the present emergency.  We are going to conserve soil,
conserve water and conserve life.  We are going to have long-time defenses against both low
prices and drought.  We are going to have a farm policy that will serve the national welfare.
That is our hope for the future.

There are two reasons why I want to end by talking about reemployment.  Tomorrow is Labor Day.
The brave spirit with which so many millions of working people are winning their way out of
depression deserves respect and admiration.  It is like the courage of the farmers in the drought
areas.

That is my first reason.  The second is that healthy employment conditions stand equally with
healthy agricultural conditions as a buttress of national prosperity.  Dependable employment
at fair wages is just as important to the people in the towns and cities as good farm income
is to agriculture.  Our people must have the ability to buy the goods they manufacture and
the crops they produce.  Thus city wages and farm buying power are the two strong legs that
carry the nation forward.

Reemployment in industry is proceeding rapidly.  Government spending was in large part responsible
for keeping industry going and putting it in a position to make this reemployment possible.
Government orders were the backlog of heavy industry; government wages turned over and over
again to make consumer purchasing power and to sustain every merchant in the community.  Businessmen
with their businesses, small and large, had to be saved.  Private enterprise is necessary to
any nation which seeks to maintain the democratic form of government.  In their case, just
as certainly as in the case of drought-stricken farmers, government spending has saved.

Government having spent wisely to save it, private industry begins to take workers off the
rolls of the government relief program. Until this administration we had no free employment
service, except in a few states and cities.  Because there was no unified employment service,
the worker, forced to move as industry moved, often travelled over the country, wandering after
jobs which seemed always to travel just a little faster than he did.  He was often victimized
by fraudulent practices of employment clearing houses, and the facts of employment opportunities
were at the disposal neither of himself nor of the employer.

In 1933 the United States Employment Service was created--a cooperative state and federal enterprise,
through which the federal government matches dollar for dollar the funds provided by the states
for registering the occupations and skills of workers and for actually finding jobs for these
registered workers in private industry.  The federal-state cooperation has been splendid. 
Already employment services are operating in thirty-two states, and the areas not covered by
them are served by the federal government.

We have developed a nationwide service with seven hundred district offices and one thousand
branch offices, thus providing facilities through which labor can learn of jobs available and
employers can find workers.

Last spring I expressed the hope that employers would realize their deep responsibility to
take men off the relief rolls and give them jobs in private enterprise.  Subsequently I was
told by many employers that they were not satisfied with the information available concerning
the skill and experience of the workers on the relief rolls.  On August 25th I allocated a
relatively small sum to the employment service for the purpose of getting better and more recent
information in regard to those now actively at work on W.P.A.  Projects--information as to
their skills and previous occupations--and to keep the records of such men and women up-to-
date for maximum service in making them available to industry. Tonight I am announcing the
allocation of two and a half million dollars more to enable the Employment Service to make
an even more intensive search then it has yet been equipped to make, to find opportunities
in private employment for workers registered with it.

Tonight I urge the workers to cooperate with and take full advantage of this intensification
of the work of the Employment Service.  This does not mean that there will be any lessening
of our efforts under our W.P.A. and P.W.A. and other work relief programs until all workers
have decent jobs in private employment at decent wages.  We do not surrender our responsibility
to the unemployed.  We have had ample proof that it is the will of the American people that
those who represent them in national, state and local government should continue as long as
necessary to discharge that responsibility.  But it does mean that the government wants to
use resource to get private work for those now employed on government work, and thus to curtail
to a minimum the government expenditures for direct employment.

Tonight I ask employers, large and small, throughout the nation, to use the help of the state
and Federal Employment Service whenever in the general pick-up of business they require more
workers.

Tomorrow is Labor Day.  Labor Day in this country has never been a class holiday.  It has always
been a national holiday.  It has never had more significance as a national holiday than it
has now.  In other countries the relationship of employer and employee has been more or less
been accepted as a class relationship not readily to be broken through.  In this country we
insist, as an essential of the American way of life, that the employer-employee relationship
should be one between free men and equals.  We refuse to regard those who work with hand or
brain as different from or inferior to those who live from their property.  We insist that
labor is entitled to as much respect as property.  But our workers with hand and brain deserve
more than respect for their labor.  They deserve practical protection in the opportunity to
use their labor at a return adequate to support them at a decent and constantly rising standard
of living, and to accumulate a margin of security against the inevitable vicissitudes of life.

The average man must have that twofold opportunity if we are to avoid the growth of a class-conscious
society in this country.

There are those who fail to read both the signs of the times and American history.  They would
try to refuse the worker any effective power to bargain collectively, to earn a decent livelihood
and to acquire security.  It is those short-sighted ones, not labor, who threaten this country
with that class dissension which in other countries has led to dictatorship and the establishment
of fear and hatred as the dominant emotions in human life.

All American workers, brain workers and manual workers alike, and all the rest of us whose
well-being depends on theirs, know that our needs are one in building an orderly economic democracy
in which all can profit and in which all can be secure from the kind of faulty economic direction
which brought us to the brink of common ruin seven years ago.

There is no cleavage between white collar workers and manual workers, between artists and artisans,
musicians and mechanics, lawyers and accountants and architects and miners.

Tomorrow, Labor Day, belongs to all of us.  Tomorrow, Labor Day, symbolizes the hope of all
Americans.  Anyone who calls it a class holiday challenges the whole concept of American democracy.

The Fourth of July commemorates our political freedom--a freedom which without economic freedom
is meaningless indeed.  Labor Day symbolizes our determination to achieve an economic freedom
for the average man which will give his political freedom reality.

March 9, 1937.

Last Thursday I described in detail certain economic problems which everyone admits now face
the nation.  For the many messages which have come to me after that speech, and which it is
physically impossible to answer individually, I take this means of saying "thank you."

Tonight, sitting at my desk in the White House, I make my first radio report to the people
in my second term of office.

I am reminded of that evening in March, four years ago, when I made my first radio report to
you.  We were then in the midst of the great banking crisis.

Soon after, with the authority of the Congress, we asked the nation to turn over all of its
privately held gold, dollar for dollar, to the government of the United States.

Today's recovery proves how right that policy was.

But when, almost two years later, it came before the Supreme Court its constitutionality was
upheld only by a five-to-four vote.  The change of one vote would have thrown all the affairs
of this great Nation back into hopeless chaos.  In effect, four Justices ruled that the right
under a private contract to exact a pound of flesh was more sacred than the main objectives
of the Constitution to establish an enduring Nation.

In 1933 you and I knew that we must never let our economic system get completely out of joint
again--that we could not afford to take the risk of another great depression.

We also became convinced that the only way to avoid a repetition of those dark days was to
have a government with power to prevent and to cure the abuses and the inequalities which had
thrown that system out of joint.

We then began a program of remedying those abuses and inequalities--to give balance and stability
to our economic system--to make it bomb-proof against the causes of 1929.

Today we are only part-way through that program--and recovery is speeding up to a point where
the dangers of 1929 are again becoming possible, not this week or month perhaps, but within
a year or two.

National laws are needed to complete that program.  Individual or local or state effort alone
cannot protect us in 1937 any better than ten years ago.

It will take time--and plenty of time--to work out our remedies administratively even after
legislation is passed.  To complete our program of protection in time, therefore, we cannot
delay one moment in making certain that our national government has power to carry through.

Four years ago action did not come until the eleventh hour.  It was almost too late.

If we learned anything from the depression we will not allow ourselves to run around in new
circles of futile discussion and debate, always postponing the day of decision.

The American people have learned from the depression.  For in the last three national elections
an overwhelming majority of them voted a mandate that the Congress and the President begin
the task of providing that protection--not after long years of debate, but now.

The courts, however, have cast doubts on the ability of the elected Congress to protect us
against catastrophe by meeting squarely our modern social and economic conditions.

We are at a crisis in our ability to proceed with that protection. It is a quiet crisis.  There
are no lines of depositors outside closed banks.  But to the far-sighted it is far-reaching
in its possibilities of injury to America.

I want to talk with you very simply about the need for present action in this crisis--the need
to meet the unanswered challenge of one-third of a Nation ill-nourished, ill-clad, ill-housed.

Last Thursday I described the American form of government as a three horse team provided by
the Constitution to the American people so that their field might be plowed.  The three horses
are, of course, the three branches of government--the Congress, the Executive and the courts.
Two of the horses are pulling in unison today; the third is not.  Those who have intimated
that the President of the United States is trying to drive that team, overlook the simple fact
that the President, as Chief Executive, is himself one of the three horses.

It is the American people themselves who are in the driver's seat.

It is the American people themselves who want the furrow plowed.

It is the American people themselves who expect the third horse to pull in unison with the
other two.

I hope that you have re-read the Constitution of the United States in these past few weeks.
Like the Bible, it ought to be read again and again.

It is an easy document to understand when you remember that it was called into being because
the Articles of Confederation under which the original thirteen States tried to operate after
the Revolution showed the need of a national government with power enough to handle national
problems.  In its Preamble, the Constitution states that it was intended to form a more perfect
Union and promote the general welfare; and the powers given to the Congress to carry out those
purposes can be best described by saying that they were all the powers needed to meet each
and every problem which then had a national character and which could not be met by merely
local action.

But the framers went further.

That, my friends, is what I honestly believe to have been the clear and underlying purpose
of the patriots who wrote a federal constitution to create a national government with national
power, intended as they said, "to form a more perfect union. . . for ourselves and our posterity."

For nearly twenty years there was no conflict between the Congress and the Court.  Then Congress
passed a statute which, in 1803, the Court said violated an express provision of the Constitution.
The Court claimed the power to declare it unconstitutional and did so declare it.  But a little
later the Court itself admitted that it was an extraordinary power to exercise and through
Mr. Justice Washington laid down this limitation upon it:  "It is but a decent respect due
to the wisdom, the integrity and the patriotism of the legislative body, by which any law is
passed, to presume in favor of its validity until its violation of the Constitution is proved
beyond all reasonable doubt."

But since the rise of the modern movement for social and economic progress through legislation,
the Court has more and more often and more and more boldly asserted a power to veto laws passed
by the Congress and state legislatures in complete disregard of this original limitation.

In the last four years the sound rule of giving statutes the benefit of all reasonable doubt
has been cast aside.  The Court has been acting not as a judicial body, but as a policy-making
body.

When the Congress has sought to stabilize national agriculture, to improve the conditions of
labor, to safeguard business against unfair competition, to protect our national resources,
and in many other ways, to serve our clearly national needs, the majority of the Court has
been assuming the power to pass on the wisdom of these acts of the Congress--and to approve
or disapprove the public policy written into these laws.

That is not only my accusation.  It is the accusation of most distinguished justices of the
present Supreme Court.  I have not the time to quote to you all the language used by dissenting
justices in many of these cases.  But in the case holding the Railroad Retirement Act unconstitutional,
for instance, Chief Justice Hughes said in a dissenting opinion that the majority opinion was
"a departure from sound principles," and placed "an unwarranted limitation upon the commerce
clause."  And three other justices agreed with him.

In the case of holding the A.A.A. unconstitutional, Justice Stone said of the majority opinion
that it was a "tortured construction of the Constitution."  And two other justices agreed with him.

In the case holding the New York Minimum Wage Law unconstitutional, Justice Stone said that
the majority were actually reading into the Constitution their own "personal economic predilections,"
and that if the legislative power is not left free to choose the methods of solving the problems
of poverty, subsistence, and health of large numbers in the community, then "government is
to be rendered impotent."  And two other justices agreed with him.

In the face of these dissenting opinions, there is no basis for the claim made by some members
of the Court that something in the Constitution has compelled them regretfully to thwart the
will of the people.

In the face of such dissenting opinions, it is perfectly clear that, as Chief Justice Hughes
has said, "We are under a Constitution, but the Constitution is what the judges say it is."

The Court in addition to the proper use of its judicial functions has improperly set itself
up as a third house of the Congress--a super-legislature, as one of the justices has called
it--reading into the Constitution words and implications which are not there, and which were
never intended to be there.

We have, therefore, reached the point as a nation where we must take action to save the Constitution
from the Court and the Court from itself.  We must find a way to take an appeal from the Supreme
Court to the Constitution itself.  We want a Supreme Court which will do justice under the
Constitution--not over it.  In our courts we want a government of laws and not of men.

I want--as all Americans want--an independent judiciary as proposed by the framers of the Constitution.
That means a Supreme Court that will enforce the Constitution as written--that will refuse
to amend the Constitution by the arbitrary exercise of judicial power-- amended by judicial
say-so.  It does not mean a judiciary so independent that it can deny the existence of facts
which are universally recognized.

How then could we proceed to perform the mandate given us?  It was said in last year's Democratic
platform, "If these problems cannot be effectively solved within the Constitution, we shall
seek such clarifying amendment as will assure the power to enact those laws, adequately to
regulate commerce, protect public health and safety, and safeguard economic security."  In
other words, we said we would seek an amendment only if every other possible means by legislation
were to fail.

When I commenced to review the situation with the problem squarely before me, I came by a process
of elimination to the conclusion that, short of amendments, the only method which was clearly
constitutional, and would at the same time carry out other much needed reforms, was to infuse
new blood into all our courts.  We must have men worthy and equipped to carry out impartial
justice. But, at the same time, we must have judges who will bring to the courts a present-day
sense of the Constitution--judges who will retain in the courts the judicial functions of a
court, and reject the legislative powers which the courts have today assumed.

In forty-five out of the forty-eight states of the Union, judges are chosen not for life but
for a period of years.  In many states judges must retire at the age of seventy.  Congress
has provided financial security by offering life pensions at full pay for federal judges on
all courts who are willing to retire at seventy. In the case of Supreme Court justices, that
pension is $20,000 a year.  But all federal judges, once appointed, can, if they choose, hold
office for life, no matter how old they may get to be.

What is my proposal?  It is simply this:  whenever a judge or justice of any federal court
has reached the age of seventy and does not avail himself of the opportunity to retire on a
pension, a new member shall be appointed by the President then in office, with the approval,
as required by the Constitution, of the Senate of the United States.

That plan has two chief purposes.  By bringing into the judicial system a steady and continuing
stream of new and younger blood, I hope, first, to make the administration of all federal justice
speedier and, therefore, less costly; secondly, to bring to the decision of social and economic
problems younger men who have had personal experience and contact with modern facts and circumstances
under which average men have to live and work.  This plan will save our national Constitution
from hardening of the judicial arteries.

The number of judges to be appointed would depend wholly on the decision of present judges
now over seventy, or those who would subsequently reach the age of seventy.

If, for instance, any one of the six justices of the Supreme Court now over the age of seventy
should retire as provided under the plan, no additional place would be created.  Consequently,
although there never can be more than fifteen, there may be only fourteen, or thirteen, or
twelve.  And there may be only nine.

There is nothing novel or radical about this idea.  It seeks to maintain the federal bench
in full vigor.  It has been discussed and approved by many persons of high authority ever since
a similar proposal passed the House of Representatives in 1869.

Why was the age fixed at seventy?  Because the laws of many states, the practice of the Civil
Service, the regulations of the Army and Navy, and the rules of many of our universities and
of almost every great private business enterprise, commonly fix the retirement age at seventy
years or less.

The statute would apply to all the courts in the federal system. There is general approval
so far as the lower federal courts are concerned.  The plan has met opposition only so far
as the Supreme Court of the United States itself is concerned.  If such a plan is good for
the lower courts it certainly ought to be equally good for the highest court from which there
is no appeal.

Those opposing this plan have sought to arouse prejudice and fear by crying that I am seeking
to "pack" the Supreme Court and that a baneful precedent will be established.

What do they mean by the words "packing the Court"?

Let me answer this question with a bluntness that will end all honest misunderstanding of my
purposes.

If by that phrase "packing the Court" it is charged that I wish to place on the bench spineless
puppets who would disregard the law and would decide specific cases as I wished them to be
decided, I make this answer:  that no President fit for his office would appoint, and no Senate
of honorable men fit for their office would confirm, that kind of appointees to the Supreme Court.

But if by that phrase the charge is made that I would appoint and the Senate would confirm
justices worthy to sit beside present members of the Court who understand those modern conditions,
that I will appoint justices who will not undertake to override the judgment of the Congress
on legislative policy, that I will appoint justices who will act as justices and not as legislators--if
the appointment of such justices can be called "packing the Courts," then I say that I and
with me the vast majority of the American people favor doing just that thing--now.

Is it a dangerous precedent for the Congress to change the number of the justices?  The Congress
has always had, and will have, that power.  The number of justices has been changed several
times before, in the administration of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson-- both signers of the
Declaration of Independence--Andrew Jackson, Abraham Lincoln and Ulysses S. Grant.

I suggest only the addition of justices to the bench in accordance with a clearly defined principle
relating to a clearly defined age limit.  Fundamentally, if in the future, America cannot trust
the Congress it elects to refrain from abuse of our Constitutional usages, democracy will have
failed far beyond the importance to it of any king of precedent concerning the judiciary.

We think it so much in the public interest to maintain a vigorous judiciary that we encourage
the retirement of elderly judges by offering them a life pension at full salary.  Why then
should we leave the fulfillment of this public policy to chance or make independent on upon
the desire or prejudice of any individual justice?

It is the clear intention of our public policy to provide for a constant flow of new and younger
blood into the judiciary.  Normally every President appoints a large number of district and
circuit court judges and a few members of the Supreme Court.  Until my first term practically
every President of the United States has appointed at least one member of the Supreme Court.
President Taft appointed five members and named a Chief Justice; President Wilson, three; President
Harding, four, including a Chief Justice; President Coolidge, one; President Hoover, three,
including a Chief Justice.

Such a succession of appointments should have provided a Court well-balanced as to age.  But
chance and the disinclination of individuals to leave the Supreme bench have now given us a
Court in which five justices will be over seventy-five years of age before next June and one
over seventy.  Thus a sound public policy has been defeated.

I now propose that we establish by law an assurance against any such ill-balanced court in
the future.  I propose that hereafter, when a judge reaches the age of seventy, a new and younger
judge shall be added to the court automatically.  In this way I propose to enforce a sound
public policy by law instead of leaving the composition of our federal courts, including the
highest, to be determined by chance or the personal indecision of individuals.

If such a law as I propose is regarded as establishing a new precedent, is it not a most desirable
precedent?

Like all lawyers, like all Americans, I regret the necessity of this controversy.  But the
welfare of the United States, and indeed of the Constitution itself, is what we all must think
about first. Our difficulty with the Court today rises not from the Court as an institution
but from human beings within it.  But we cannot yield our constitutional destiny to the personal
judgment of a few men who, being fearful of the future, would deny us the necessary means of
dealing with the present.

This plan of mine is no attack on the Court; it seeks to restore the Court to its rightful
and historic place in our constitutional government and to have it resume its high task of
building anew on the Constitution "a system of living law."  The Court itself can best undo
what the Court has done.

I have thus explained to you the reasons that lie behind our efforts to secure results by legislation
within the Constitution.  I hope that thereby the difficult process of constitutional amendment
may be rendered unnecessary.  But let us examine the process.

There are many types of amendment proposed.  Each one is radically different from the other.
There is no substantial groups within the Congress or outside it who are agreed on any single
amendment.

It would take months or years to get substantial agreement upon the type and language of the
amendment.  It would take months and years thereafter to get a two-thirds majority in favor
of that amendment in both Houses of the Congress.

Then would come the long course of ratification by three-fourths of all the states.  No amendment
which any powerful economic interests or the leaders of any powerful political party have had
reason to oppose has ever been ratified within anything like a reasonable time.  And thirteen
states which contain only five percent of the voting population can block ratification even
though the thirty- five states with ninety-five percent of the population are in favor of it.

A very large percentage of newspaper publishers, Chambers of Commerce, Bar Association, Manufacturers'
Associations, who are trying to give the impression that they really do want a constitutional
amendment would be the first to exclaim as soon as an amendment was proposed, "Oh!  I was for
an amendment all right, but this amendment you proposed is not the kind of amendment that I
was thinking about.  I am therefore, going to spend my time, my efforts and my money to block
the amendment, although I would be awfully glad to help get some other kind of amendment ratified."

Two groups oppose my plan on the ground that they favor a constitutional amendment.  The first
includes those who fundamentally object to social and economic legislation along modern lines.
This is the same group who during the campaign last Fall tried to block the mandate of the people.

Now they are making a last stand.  And the strategy of that last stand is to suggest the time-consuming
process of amendment in order to kill off by delay the legislation demanded by the mandate.

To them I say:  I do not think you will be able long to fool the American people as to your
purposes.

The other groups is composed of those who honestly believe the amendment process is the best
and who would be willing to support a reasonable amendment if they could agree on one.

To them I say:  we cannot rely on an amendment as the immediate or only answer to our present
difficulties.  When the time comes for action, you will find that many of those who pretend
to support you will sabotage any constructive amendment which is proposed.  Look at these strange
bed-fellows of yours.  When before have you found them really at your side in your fights for
progress?

And remember one thing more.  Even if an amendment were passed, and even if in the years to
come it were to be ratified, its meaning would depend upon the kind of justices who would be
sitting on the Supreme Court bench.  An amendment, like the rest of the Constitution, is what
the justices say it is rather than what its framers or you might hope it is.

This proposal of mine will not infringe in the slightest upon the civil or religious liberties
so dear to every American.

My record as Governor and President proves my devotion to those liberties.  You who know me
can have no fear that I would tolerate the destruction by any branch of government of any part
of our heritage of freedom.

The present attempt by those opposed to progress to play upon the fears of danger to personal
liberty brings again to mind that crude and cruel strategy tried by the same opposition to
frighten the workers of America in a pay-envelope propaganda against the Social Security Law.
The workers were not fooled by that propaganda then. The people of America will not be fooled
by such propaganda now.

I am in favor of action through legislation:

First, because I believe that it can be passed at this session of the Congress.

Second, because it will provide a reinvigorated, liberal-minded judiciary necessary to furnish
quicker and cheaper justice from bottom to top.

Third, because it will provide a series of federal courts willing to enforce the Constitution
as written, and unwilling to assert legislative powers by writing into it their own political
and economic policies.

During the past half century the balance of power between the three great branches of the federal
government, has been tipped out of balance by the courts in direct contradiction of the high
purposes of the framers of the Constitution.  It is my purpose to restore that balance.  You
who know me will accept my solemn assurance that in a world in which democracy is under attack,
I seek to make American democracy succeed.  You and I will do our part.

October 12, 1937.

My Friends:

This afternoon I have issued a Proclamation calling a special session of the Congress to convene
on Monday, November 15, 1937.

I do this in order to give to the Congress an opportunity to consider important legislation
before the regular session in January, and to enable the Congress to avoid a lengthy session
next year, extending through the summer.

I know that many enemies of democracy will say that it is bad for business, bad for the tranquility
of the country, to have a special session--even one beginning only six weeks before the regular
session.  But I have never had sympathy with the point of view that a session of the Congress
is an unfortunate intrusion of what they call "politics" into our national affairs.  Those
who do not like democracy want to keep legislators at home.  But the Congress is an essential
instrument of democratic government; and democratic government can never be considered an intruder
into the affairs of a democratic nation.

I shall ask this special session to consider immediately certain important legislation which
my recent trip through the nation convinces me the American people immediately need.  This
does not mean that other legislation, to which I am not referring tonight, is not important
for our national well-being.  But other legislation can be more readily discussed at the regular
session.

Anyone charged with proposing or judging national policies should have first-hand knowledge
of the nation as a whole.

That is why again this year I have taken trips to all parts of the country.  Last spring I
visited the Southwest.  This summer I made several trips in the East.  Now I am just back from
a trip from a trip all the way across the continent, and later this autumn I hope to pay my
annual visit to the Southeast.

For a President especially it is a duty to think in national terms.

He must think not only of this year but of future years, when someone else will be President.

He must look beyond the average of the prosperity and well-being of the country, for averages
easily cover up danger spots of poverty and instability.

He must not let the country be deceived by a merely temporary prosperity which depends on wasteful
exploitation of resources which cannot last.

He must think not only of keeping us out of war today, but also of keeping us out of war in
generations to come.

The kind of prosperity we want is the sound and permanent kind which is not built up temporarily
at the expense of any section or any group.  And the kind of peace we want is the sound and
permanent kind, which is built on the cooperative search for peace by all the nations which
want peace.

The other day I was asked to state my outstanding impression gained on this recent trip.  I
said that it seemed to me to be the general understanding on the part of the average citizen
of the broad objectives and policies which I have just outlined.

Five years of fierce discussion and debate--five years of information through the radio and
the moving picture--have taken the whole nation to school in the nation's business.  Even those
who have most attacked our objectives have, by their very criticism, encouraged the mass of
our citizens to think about and understand the issues involved, and, understanding, to approve.

Out of that process, we have learned to think as a nation.  And out of that process we have
learned to feel ourselves a nation.  As never before in our history, each section of America
says to every other section, "Thy people shall be my people."

For most of the country this has been a good year--better in dollars and cents than for many
years--far better in the soundness of its prosperity.  And everywhere I went I found particular
optimism about the good effect on business which is expected from the steady spending by farmers
of the largest farm income in many years.

But we have not yet done all that must be done to make this prosperity stable.  The people
of the United States were checked in their efforts to prevent future piling up of huge agricultural
surpluses and the tumbling prices which inevitably follow them. They were checked in their
efforts to secure reasonable minimum wages and maximum hours and the end of child labor.  And
because they were checked, many groups in many parts of the country still have less purchasing
power and a lower standard of living than the nation as a whole can permanently allow.

Americans realize these facts.  That is why they ask government not to stop governing simply
because prosperity has come back a long way.

They do not look on government as an interloper in their affairs. On the contrary, they regard
it as the most effective form of organized self-help.

Sometimes I get bored sitting in Washington hearing certain people talk and talk about all
that government ought not do--people who got all they wanted from government back in the days
when the financial institutions and the railroads were being bailed out by the government in
1933.  It is refreshing to go out through the country and feel the common wisdom that the time
to repair the roof is when the sun is shining.

They want the financial budget balanced.  But they want the human budget balanced as well.
They want to set up a national economy which balances itself with as little government subsidy
as possible, for they realize that persistent subsidies ultimately bankrupt their government.

They are less concerned that every detail be immediately right than they are that the direction
be right.  They know that just so long as we are traveling on the right road, it does not make
much difference if occasionally we hit a "Thank you marm."

The overwhelming majority of our citizens who live by agriculture are thinking very clearly
how they want government to help them in connection with the production of crops.  They want
government help in two ways:  first, in the control of surpluses, and, second, in the proper
use of land.

The other day a reporter told me that he had never been able to understand why the government
seeks to curtail crop production and, at the same time, to open up new irrigated acres.

He was confusing two totally separate objectives.

Crop surplus control relates to the total amount of any major crop grown in the whole nation
on all cultivated land--good or bad-- control by the cooperation of the crop growers and with
the help of the government.  Land use, on the other hand, is a policy of providing each farmer
with the best quality and type of land we have, or can make available, for his part in that
total production. Adding good new land for diversified crops is offset by abandoning poor land
now uneconomically farmed.

The total amount of production largely determines the price of the crop, and, therefore, the
difference between comfort and misery for the farmer.

If we Americans were foolish enough to run every shoe factory twenty-four hours a day, seven
days a week, we would soon have more shoes than the nation could possibly buy--a surplus of
shoes so great that it would have to be destroyed, or given away, or sold at prices far below
the cost of production.  That simple law of supply and demand equally affects the price of
all our major crops.

You and I have heard big manufacturers talk about control of production by the farmer as an
indefensible "economy of scarcity." And yet these same manufacturers never hesitate to shut
down their own huge plants, throw men out of work, and cut down the purchasing power of whole
communities whenever they think that they must adjust their production to an oversupply of
the goods they make. When it is their baby who has the measles, they call it not "an economy
of scarcity" but "sound business judgment."

Of course, speaking seriously, what you and I want is such governmental rules of the game that
labor and agriculture and industry will all produce a balanced abundance without waste.

So we intend this winter to find a way to prevent four-and-a-half cent cotton, nine cent corn
and thirty cent wheat--with all the disaster those prices mean for all of us--to prevent those
prices from ever coming back again. At last he distinguished himself as a black dot there among the waves came
alongside the vessel, a man in a beret climbed quickly to the draft, and then the bridge,
and said with an accent Vizcaino

- Afternoon, D. Isidoro and the company.

They reached the mouth, which was very narrow. The practical, without losing sight of the bow of
the steam spoke cheerfully of the pilgrimage he had just left there on the top of the village.
Entered by a narrow river, between two high mountains, and soon lead to the bay, which in fact,
did not deserve such a name: it was a sort of lake, not very large, surrounded by all sides by
high mountains and the sea where communication went unnoticed, not to look far. When they entered
the twilight era. In the bay, the effect of abrupt cord surrounds it, was already low light,
the sun had long had sunk behind the mountains, and in the sky could
be seen beyond the semicircle of the moon, thin, blue and spiky, the
Hesperus winking at his side before hiding.

The village is spread across both of sides attached to the mountain, and their houses were washed
by the sea, to which residents could exit the stone stairs. Many had also a small terrace or garden
where snacking or chatted quietly taking the air, or danced and laughed, depending on the mood and
occasion. Miguel learned from the pilot that the people was divided into two parishes, the right
part is called San Pedro, left San Juan.

Front, much further away, was a group of newly built houses and stores, known of flights width or
width only.

The steamer anchored in the middle of the bay until the next day. Miguel was surprised and love
of that silent and melancholy retreat into the shadows took appearances twilight even more sad and
fantastic. The imagination began to speak a language soft and mysterious. Looked at the houses
where light is still not perceived at all, and asked: - Are the living there, away from noise,
enclosed by the natural wall, will be happier than those who live thunderous agitation in
court? Who knows! Fixed on a young couple leaning the railing of a roof and could not help envying.
Back in Madrid do not love, of sure, like this: we are requested by many wishes at once, that
the heart can not collected and live in happy contemplation of being that is worshiped. At that time
he did not remember for any of Lucia. His spirit, struck first by the sublime presence of the ocean,
and now for the sweet poetry of that lake, taking off with the tedium
of twisted and artificial life I had just left, its lie and sinful
pleasures, and joined with love the feeling of this quiet little town
that he retired and picturesque inspired.

Came to him from his meditation master, who invited him to have a
glass of gin Camera: Miguel said he wanted to jump ashore and find
lodging.

- Lose V. care, now going to be Ursula.

- Who is Ursula?

-
The juggler: she was taken ashore and the search.

And indeed, he soon came to the vapor side of a boat, and within it a young who handled the
oars with unusual skill. In Tickets, the service of the skiffs that carry people from one point to another
of the bay is in charge of women.

- Afternoon, D. Isidoro and the company.

- That I give this gentleman, Ursula.

Beware what you do with it.

(Here the captain said a great outrage, that can not be repeated.)

Ursula smiled shocked.

- There he, D. Isidoro, let him!

Jumped in the boat our young, and was driven rapidly to the shore. Ursula was a shepherdess
chunky, poorly dressed and with colors so vivid in his face, which surprised Miguel: later found
that heavy drinking liquor. He tied the boat and led to his passenger by a rough stone stairs
to the street. This was quite narrow and crooked, as Sunday, I kept having some animation in
it, the neighbors were sitting outside talking, or playing the lottery shops. Feeling the steps
of the stranger, rose face and examined him with curiosity, which
trumpeted the numbers also suspended its singing for a moment to look
at him.

In the taverns, which were not few, you could hear a lot of uproar.
It was almost night.

Ursula was through that guides the long and winding road, which was
the only one of the parish of San Pedro, a small square in the center
of a group dancing girls.

The boatman stopped in front of an old house with a shield on the door and he leaned against
the window of the shop where he had tobacconist.

He said a few words in Basque, and a woman who had leaned in to see
Michael.

- No problem - replied .-- Castilian coming for a long time
that gentleman?

- I can not say to you, Mr - said that raw .-- Probably
the whole month.

- I can offer to V. the room for now, but if a family
comes, hopefully within few days, will V. to move to the upstairs
room, which is smaller.

- I do not care: having a decent room, good
enough for me.

The woman with whom he spoke was about forty years old, was tall, stout, and although quite dejection,
his face still had signs of superior beauty. Dressed a black merino dress modest, as most
women who pass through the villages boys. Arose at this, went to the site and invited the youth
to come up with it. Miguel, Before doing so, he dismissed the boatmen,
charging that he sent the baggage.

The room where he entered was spacious, the furniture, though not wealthy, they seemed decent.

-
This is your room, now - said Dona Rosalia (such was the hostess)
.-- This is the bedroom.

Want V. bring you light?

- Until you come I do not need luggage.

- Well, excuse me V., I have abandoned the tobacconist.

And the midwife left the room leaving him alone. After he had given some laps enterádose it and
their willingness to the dim light that was there, lit a cigar, and went out the corridor and
fell face down on the iron railing, contemplating, with eyes distracted, the square dance. The
youth group danced with increasing enthusiasm and sang louder and louder. Most of them were
cool and strong but beautiful but some deserve the name of such. The movements were alive, loose,
funny: the most liked Miguel was a paste consisting of arms and turning the body to dance, jump
to the letter. Around them were many onlookers, men and women.

Group noted that they said a girl and came to sit alone under corridor
where he was, glanced at it, but can not see her face, environment
eyes again to dance.

After a while a voice vaguely perceived behind it:

- Listen - said
the voice.

But do not imagine their way to him, continued in a comfortable position.

-
Listen - repeated the voice a little stronger.

- Hey, who's going?
- Then said, turning.

In the shadows of the room could see the figure of the girl I was
before sitting under corridor.

Could have fifteen years of age, and so failed to see, had a face
round and brown, quite insignificant, and spent the braid hair yet.

-
My aunt says that if you want V. dinner - the girl said, her voice
trembling.

- If it were possible ... I have some appetite .-- And
as I wished to speak, he added, smiling kindness:

- Do not dance
V. with the other girls?

I've seen V. very alone down there in the corridor.

- Never dance - all confusing the girl replied, as if any serious misconduct against him.

- Do not know V?

- Yes, sir, I know, but ...

- Come on, do not like.

-
Before you loved me, now, not so much.

All this was said increasingly shortened, without dropping from the
lips an innocent smile and humble, that pleased Michael.

It was all I could please him: the face, without being ugly, nothing I had that could draw
attention, moreover, did not see it clearly, because of the dark that the room was.

When he said the last words, she hastily retreated.

Miguel's asked disappear:

- What is your name?

- Maxi - answered without turning his head.

Brought him shortly after dinner, the maid was an old ugly and sour, to turn limitose a lamp,
setting the table, and on it the dishes, without a word. But soon Dona Rosalia time again to
give talk, and throw it without his tongue, soltola so well that blessed lady, that before the end of
dinner and Miguel knew everything about your life.

Mrs. Rosalie was married to a former sea captain, retired early because of the trade rheumatism not
allow him to navigate. He had done some quarters, few, with their revenue, thus giving the tobacconist
and what some guests left for the summer, lived modestly, but no cheating. He had six children:
the eldest, who had nineteen years, was employed in a shop in San Sebastian, the second pilot
studying for Bilbao, the third, Adolfo, I had at home, a piece of wood that served only to give
trouble, came after two girls aged eight and ten years, and finally,
a child of five who was, by all signs, the idol of his eyes.

- And
that girl who came to ask if I wanted dinner, who?

- Ah, Maxi, poor
thing!

It's my niece, the daughter of a brother of Valentine, my husband.

Not met his mother, his father was captain of the Duero, a steam V. perhaps you've seen. That steam,
going to Manila three years ago, ran aground. My brother, regardless of whether the ship could
leave or not, he hurried to his cabin, shut himself up in it and shot himself.

- What an atrocity!

- He was so delicate, that the thought that he
could throw the blame, he amassed the trial and committed this madness.

The boat lightened the ship as a little left, because he says Valentine, the bass was Sandy, the
Bonifacio was poor which was there under the water. Maximina, of course, does not know what
the shot, believes his father died in Manila of disease. As she was alone with no father or
mother, we picked her up from school where he was, and have brought to home. What do we do? We have
many children, and is a sacrifice that we impose keeping, dressing and shoes, but something
has to do for God, truth, D. Miguel? Not bad, no sir, and you know how much to thank your guys
what they do for her ... But the poor is basically useless. It's quiet, suffering, gives no bad answer
...

- What age?

- Fifteen years is to sixteen.

- Soon to be married then.

- Oh,
God! - Dona Rosalia said with deep pity .-- I think are green, not
today beautiful girls are married have no money, how she has to marry
to be rich or pretty?

- I can not find it ugly.

- Oh, God!

Poor thing! And understands that he must think about those things. Lately it has got a lot to
the church. Confess and receive Communion every week, and hear Mass whenever she can. I let
her missing until the obligations of home, which like V. know, come
first.

I recently wrote to his uncle (because word would not dare) saying
he wanted to become a nun.

But to be a nun, D. Miguel, you need a dowry, and we can not give. Valentine was determined
to let them out of pocket, but I am opposed. When things can not, have to resign. The same gains
the sky inside than outside the convent. The poor thing I felt very much!

Gave a bad feeling so sorry for Michael. Tired of listening to his hostess, got up and under
the pretext of arranging the room, went to the bedroom. Doña Rosalia after left him alone.

That night was not easy to see the general.

His house was across the bay such time as hard-pressed to find her. Moreover, Lucia wanted
his visits were secret forever: it was necessary to know how I wanted
that done.

Determined, then wait until the next day.

It was too early to go to bed. He took his hat and cane to walk around the people. Upon leaving,
was still dancing in the square: Maxi was again sitting in the chair
looking at it.

- Good night, Maxi - said our youth approaching her.

-
Ay! Good night.

- Still to be decided V. to dance?

- No, sir.

-
Well, I did.

The girl looked surprised.

- But I want a rest next to V. Is there a chair out there?

- I'll
get it now - said very embarrassed.

And entering the tobacconist, left with one that placed well away
from yours.

Miguel, great disengage, put them close together.

As they sat down, started dancing girls to lead them stares.

The night was starry and clear or obscure.

Into conversation, talking about the dance, the time from his trip, sold out in an instant all
public areas. Maximina smiled kindly to what he said, but just answer
only in monosyllables, but she was unaware that efforts be made more
explicit.

At last dared to say:

- Do not dance V.?

- If V I had fun so far and would be within the circle - said getting
seriously.

- Yo! - Said the girl calmly.

- Yes, you .-- Miguel released
to say it Do not laugh .-- V. case: I never dreamed of dancing; but
less now that I am in such good company.

The girl was so frightened yet, he did not know thank you.

Guessing concern our young, dispensed with the usual jokes and began to treat him with more respect.
Enterose gently on the details of his life and was slowly gaining
confidence, making it speak more disengage.

But the ball was crushed. Some young people left for their homes, others, and with them some
leading men, came to sit in front of the tobacconist, for which they
Dona Rosalia consented to get more chairs and a long bench.

Miguel sat next to Maxi.

- Remove V. guitar, Dona Rosalia - said one of the girls.

- Will you sing Johnny?

Juanito was the pilot of steam where our young man had arrived. It was well-known Andalusian
in Pasajes.

As came the guitar, began to brighten up the conversation with T-shirts, polo shirts and flamenco
dancers. Miguel, to the surprise of beautiful girls that were there, leaning back in the chair,
began to speak to the ear Maximina. What do you say? Nothing, nonsense: it was going very nicely,
it was a very nice girl, she was glad to have come to stop his house,
etc. Maximina, more surprised than confusing, listened with a smile
that music so new to it (Michael, not the pilot).

Our youth spent time in the best I could, waiting for time to go
to bed.

- Why not feel V. Paulina next? - asked the girl.

- Who
is Paul?

- That girl so beautiful that it is near the door.

Miguel was inclined to view it.

- Do not look good, looks nice, in
fact - said leaning back again .-- But V. also is ... and very nice
too.

- Oh, God - the girl said, blushing.

- Go it is! - Miguel said,
laying his hand on hers and gave her an affectionate squeeze.

The girl did not move: both silent for a moment.

- Are we going to
play around with the clothes? - Said one of the young so that Johnny
had finished his repertoire.

Started the game with items. They lit a match, it was giving each other through certain words that
had to be spoken aloud, paying garment conclude that in whose hands
or go out.

Our young took little interest in the game. When the match came to him quite fallen, dropped it without
giving it to Maxi, and paid garment.

- Why has not given me? - It asked.

- Because we wanted to V. blows.

He got saloon owners of the garments, they were commanded to say yes three times and three times no,
they were made to please the audience, etc., etc. Miguel, while these operations lasted, kept deposit
from time to time some little words in the ear of Maxi. With boldness courtier's run came to
seize one of his hands and hold it in hers. Was surprised to see that she did not retreat.
She was a virgin hand, solid and cold one if not great, but perfectly machined, made him remember
the overall, long and gritty and always burning. Timidly pressed first, then more power: After
lovingly caressed her, touching her gently on top. Maximina let him do withdraw without dreaming,
like a natural thing. Not expressed even more excitement or concerns before, just took it off when
I went to use it in the game. What will this be? Miguel asked all confused. Will this girl and
such malice? Is it pure innocence? While hinting experience first, an inner voice told him otherwise;
and following it, was satisfied with tender caress and nobly so that hand gave him candidly. The
gathering broke up at last, and our young man was puzzled and thoughtful to bed, intending
to follow closely in the days Maximina.

XII

The first thing the next day morning was a message to Lucia.

"I have been here yesterday afternoon. Tell me how I get ready to see you. "He left home and
went in search of Ursula the boatmen.

So he asked her.

- Do you know the lady of General Bembo?

- Go!

- Then you will take
this letter now.

Wait reply and come away. In the I wait for spring.

Boatman took the oars, crossed the bay, tied the boat and disappeared there between trees. While
tornado with the answer, our young man was on a visit to Captain steam and the pilot of the peteneras.

Ursula
was not long in appearing again in a hurry paddling: Miguel standing
in the road so set foot on their land and received a ticket scented
hands had gotten into the breast.

So the bill said:

"Dear me: A sweet and mysterious concern last night my heart felt announced no doubt you were
near me. We can not see us as before, because Carmen has been in Madrid and I have no confidence
in the servants. It states that your letters be secret. The girl that carries it is faithful and
quiet: you can bring in your boat at ten in the evening. Entering it should light a match,
when you are in the middle of the bay another, and another at last ground when you jump on
this side. Each of these matches will answer me with same signal from the viewpoint of home.
We will meet with the garden wall.

Prudence and discretion.

Do not miss.

Yours until death,

ALFREDO.

"

In reading the letter could not help smiling, saying to herself: -
When you end this woman's adventures mania! - Concertose after the
boatman for dispatch night and said goodbye to her very quietly recommending.

When he came back into the room found it to Maxi, who was finishing fix it, and his cousin Adolf,
a thirteen to fourteen years with big cheeks, short and spiky hair and eyes full of meat, wild
and shameless. For some words failed to see from the hallway knew he had brawl between the two
cousins and guessed the cause. Adolfo was browsing through the guest's luggage and Maximina
opposed it.

When our young man entered, both were surprised, amid Maximina room with a broom in hand smiling,
leaning on a comfortable Adolfo staring grimly.

- Oh, what a worker
is Maximina! - Miguel said approaching her without regard to any Adolfo,
who had been unfriendly.

In the light of day might appreciate its shape. It was a dark pink paler than the small nose,
fresh mouth, head and forehead well shaped, brown hair and hazel eyes, neither large nor small,
lower than high, and big meat Apretadita of ways, revealing their great strength into muscle
movements. No one could call beautiful this girl with justice, and yet humble and innocent expression
of his eyes, constant smile twitched her lips, made her highly sympathetic. Her dress clear calico
with a pink scarf that covered his chest and part of the back.

On hearing the cry of Miguel, he answered with another:

- A lot,
yes!

- You bet.

So early, and already I have V. arranged the room.

- Toma, because he has sent my mother! - Adolfo said from a corner,
with a desire to mortify her cousin, but she replied quite naturally:

-
It's true, I has sent my aunt in V. left.

- And you do so prontito
what they send you like her? - Miguel said turning to the boy .--
So and you will be wise, for sure your parents send you study every
day.

Adolfo gave him a suspicious look and dropped his eyes without answering.

- I took a spin around the village - followed Maximina addressing the young - and then I Juanito
on steam.

- The town is ugly - it .-- That answered all outsiders say ...

-
And V. not say so?

- To me is like a town than another.

- Is not
gonna V. occasionally to San Sebastian?

- Almost never.

My aunt takes me when to bring some order, but round by round.

A Once I took my father (God rest his soul) to Bilbao to spend a
few days ... If I knew V. what he wants to come back!

- What then?

-
I was tired of walking from one place to another ... the theater ...
to walk ... to shops ... I was very sore feet.

They said it was because I was not used.

- She said her aunt who has been V. educated in a school ...

- Yes,
sir, two years in a convent Vergara ...

- And he liked to V. be there?

-
Very.

I've never been as happy as ever.

- So you would willingly V. with
the nuns?

- Oh, indeed!

- She wants to return and become a nun ...
but lacks mortis - said his cousin animal raw back into the conversation.

Gross

output very indignant that Michael, who led the little boy a look of contempt. Maxi had gone slightly
red.

- Do not believe V. .. Yes, I would return, but causing no harm to
anyone.

I understand that now, while girls are not old, my aunt needs me
...

- What is unusual in that V. I want? - Miguel said softly .--
That is not proof having V. a grateful heart and pious.

Maxi then blushed to the ears.

Adolfo, who certainly did not seem right that praise and wanted by all means vent his resentment,
he said, smiling stupidly

- It's a Beaton!

Spend their lives eating the saints.

- Well now was not eating the saints but sweeping - said Michel.

- It has been in the church communicant Thursday and Sunday and bring a rope attached to the body.
Want V. see?

And the great barbarian was entitled to his cousin, no doubt intending
to open the dress.

- Be still, Adolfo! - Said it, scared, nervous.

But Adolfo ignored and came to lay hands on it. Then the girl, with
a force surprised to Miguel, he refused to shake making.

  If by democratic methods people get a government strong
enough to protect them from fear and starvation, their democracy succeeds, but if they do not,
they grow impatient.  Therefore, the only sure bulwark of continuing liberty is a government
strong enough to protect the interests of the people, and a people strong enough and well enough
informed to maintain its sovereign control over its government.

We are a rich Nation; we can afford to pay for security and prosperity without having to sacrifice
our liberties into the bargain.

In the first century of our republic we were short of capital, short of workers and short of
industrial production; but we were rich in free land, free timber and free mineral wealth.
The federal government rightly assumed the duty of promoting business and relieving depression
by giving subsidies of land and other resources.

Thus, from our earliest days we have had a tradition of substantial government help to our
system of private enterprise.  But today the government no longer has vast tracts of rich land
to give away and we have discovered, too, that we must spend large sums of money to conserve
our land from further erosion and our forests from further depletion.  The situation is also
very different from the old days, because now we have plenty of capital, banks and insurance
companies loaded with idle money; plenty of industrial productive capacity and many millions
of workers looking for jobs.  It is following tradition as well as necessity, if government
strives to put idle money and idle men to work, to increase our public wealth and to build
up the health and strength of the people--and to help our system of private enterprise to function.

It is going to cost something to get out of this recession this way but the profit of getting
out of it will pay for the cost several times over.  Lost working time is lost money.  Every
day that a workman is unemployed, or a machine is unused, or a business organization is marking
time, it is a loss to the nation.  Because of idle men and idle machines this Nation lost one
hundred billion dollars between 1929 and the Spring of 1933, in less than four years.  This
year you, the people of this country, are making about twelve billion dollars less than last year.

If you think back to the experiences of the early years of this administration you will remember
the doubts and fears expressed about the rising expenses of government.  But to the surprise
of the doubters, as we proceeded to carry on the program which included Public Works and Work
Relief, the country grew richer instead of poorer.

It is worthwhile to remember that the annual national people's income was thirty billion dollars
more last year in 1937 than it was in 1932.  It is true that the national debt increased sixteen
billion dollars, but remember that in that increase must be included several billion dollars
worth of assets which eventually will reduce that debt and that many billion dollars of permanent
public improvements--schools, roads, bridges, tunnels, public buildings, parks and a host of
other things--meet your eye in every one of the thirty-one hundred counties in the United States.

No doubt you will be told that the government spending program of the past five years did not
cause the increase in our national income.  They will tell you that business revived because
of private spending and investment.  That is true in part, for the government spent only a
small part of the total.  But that government spending acted as a trigger to set off private
activity.  That is why the total addition to our national production and national income has
been so much greater than the contribution of the government itself.

In pursuance of that thought I said to the Congress today:

"I want to make it clear that we do not believe that we can get an adequate rise in national
income merely by investing, and lending or spending public funds.  It is essential in our economy
that private funds must be put to work and all of us recognize that such funds are entitled
to a fair profit."

As national income rises, "let us not forget that government expenditures will go down and
government tax receipts will go up."

The government contribution of land that we once made to business was the land of all the people.
And the government contribution of money which we now make to business ultimately comes out
of the labor of all the people.  It is, therefore, only sound morality, as well as a sound
distribution of buying power, that the benefits of the prosperity coming from this use of the
money of all the people ought to be distributed among all the people--at the bottom as well
as at the top.  Consequently, I am again expressing my hope that the Congress will enact at
this session a wage and hour bill putting a floor under industrial wages and a limit on working
hours--to ensure a better distribution of our prosperity, a better distribution of available
work, and a sounder distribution of buying power.

You may get all kinds of impressions in regard to the total cost of this new program, or in
regard to the amount that will be added to the net national debt.

It is a big program.  Last autumn in a sincere effort to bring government expenditures and
government income into closer balance, the Budget I worked out called for sharp decreases in
government spending.

In the light of present conditions those estimates were far too low.  This new program adds
two billion and sixty-two million dollars to direct treasury expenditures and another nine
hundred and fifty million dollars to government loans--the latter sum, because they are loans,
will come back to the treasury in the future.

The net effect on the debt of the government is this--between now and July 1, 1939--fifteen
months away--the treasury will have to raise less than a billion and a half dollars of new money.

Such an addition to the net debt of the United States need not give concern to any citizen,
for it will return to the people of the United States many times over in increased buying power
and eventually in much greater government tax receipts because of the increase in the citizen
income.

What I said to the Congress in the close of my message I repeat to you.

"Let us unanimously recognize the fact that the federal debt, whether it be twenty-five billions
or forty billions, can only be paid if the nation obtains a vastly increased citizen income.
I repeat that if this citizen income can be raised to eighty billion dollars a year the national
government and the overwhelming majority of state and local governments will be definitely
'out of the red.'  The higher the national income goes the faster will we be able to reduce
the total of federal and state and local debts. Viewed from every angle, today's purchasing
power--the citizens' income of today--is not at this time sufficient to drive the economic
system of America at higher speed.  Responsibility of government requires us at this time to
supplement the normal processes and in so supplementing them to make sure that the addition
is adequate.  We must start again on a long steady upward incline in national income.

". . .  And in that process, which I believe is ready to start, let us avoid the pitfalls of
the past--the overproduction, the overspeculation, and indeed all the extremes which we did
not succeed in avoiding in 1929.  In all of this, government cannot and should not act alone.
Business must help.  And I am sure business will help.

"We need more than the materials of recovery.  We need a united national will.

"We need to recognize nationally that the demands of no group, however just, can be satisfied
unless that group is prepared to share in finding a way to produce the income from which they
and all other groups can be paid. . . .  You, as the Congress, I, as the President, must by
virtue of our offices, seek the national good by preserving the balance between all groups
and all sections.

"We have at our disposal the national resources, the money, the skill of hand and head to raise
our economic level--our citizens' income.  Our capacity is limited only by our ability to work
together.  What is needed is the will.

"The time has come to bring that will into action with every driving force at our command.
And I am determined to do my share.

". . .  Certain positive requirements seem to me to accompany the will--if we have that will.

"There is placed on all of us the duty of self-restraint. . . . That is the discipline of a
democracy.  Every patriotic citizen must say to himself or herself, that immoderate statement,
appeals to prejudice, the creation of unkindness, are offenses not against an individual or
individuals, but offenses against the whole population of the United States. . . .

"Self-restraint implies restraint by articulate public opinion, trained to distinguish fact
from falsehood, trained to believe that bitterness is never a useful instrument in public affairs.
There can be no dictatorship by an individual or by a group in this Nation, save through division
fostered by hate.  Such division there must never be."

And finally I should like to say a personal word to you.

I never forget that I live in a house owned by all the American people and that I have been
given their trust.

I try always to remember that their deepest problems are human.  I constantly talk with those
who come to tell me their own points of view; with those who manage the great industries and
financial institutions of the country; with those who represent the farmer and the worker;
and often with average citizens without high position who come to this house.  And constantly
I seek to look beyond the doors of the White House, beyond the officialdom of the national
capital, into the hopes and fears of men and women in their homes.  I have travelled the country
over many times.  My friends, my enemies, my daily mail bring to me reports of what you are
thinking and hoping.  I want to be sure that neither battles nor burdens of office shall ever
blind me to an intimate knowledge of the way the American people want to live and the simple
purposes for which they put me here.

In these great problems of government I try not to forget that what really counts at the bottom
of it all is that the men and women willing to work can have a decent job to take care of themselves
and their homes and their children adequately; that the farmer, the factory worker, the storekeeper,
the gas station man, the manufacturer, the merchant--big and small--the banker who takes pride
in the help that he can give to the building of his community--that all of these can be sure
of a reasonable profit and safety for the savings they earn--not today nor tomorrow alone,
but as far ahead as they can see.

I can hear your unspoken wonder as to where we are headed in this troubled world.  I cannot
expect all of the people to understand all of the people's problems; but it is my job to try
to those problems.

I always try to remember that reconciling differences cannot satisfy everyone completely. 
Because I do not expect too much, I am not disappointed.  But I know that I must never give
up--that I must never let the greater interest of all the people down, merely because that
might be for the moment the easiest personal way out.

I believe that we have been right in the course we have charted.  To abandon our purpose of
building a greater, a more stable and a more tolerant America would be to miss the tide and
perhaps to miss the port.  I propose to sail ahead.  I feel sure that your hopes and your help
are with me.  For to reach a port, we must sail--sail, not lie at anchor, sail, not drift.

June 24, 1938.

Our government, happily, is a democracy.  As part of the democratic process, your President
is again taking an opportunity to report on the progress of national affairs, to report to
the real rulers of this country--the voting public.

The Seventy-Fifth Congress, elected in November, 1936, on a platform uncompromisingly liberal,
has adjourned.  Barring unforeseen events, there will be no session until the new Congress,
to be elected in November, assembles next January.

On the one hand, the Seventy-Fifth Congress has left many things undone.

For example, it refused to provide more businesslike machinery for running the Executive Branch
of the government.  The Congress also failed to meet my suggestion that it take the far-reaching
steps necessary to put the railroads of the country back on their feet.

But, on the other hand, the Congress, striving to carry out the platform on which most of its
members were elected, achieved more for the future good of the country than any Congress did
between the end of the World War and the spring of 1933.

I mention tonight only the more important of these achievements.

(1) It improved still further our agricultural laws to give the farmer a fairer share of the
national income, to preserve our soil, to provide an all-weather granary, to help the farm
tenant towards independence, to find new uses for farm products, and to begin crop insurance.

(2) After many requests on my part the Congress passed a Fair Labor Standards Act, commonly
called the Wages and Hours Bill.  That act-- applying to products in interstate commerce--ends
child labor, sets a floor below wages and a ceiling over hours of labor.

Except perhaps for the Social Security Act, it is the most far- reaching, the most far-sighted
program for the benefit of workers ever adopted here or in any other country.  Without question
it starts us toward a better standard of living and increases purchasing power to buy the products
of farm and factory.

Do not let any calamity-howling executive with an income of $1,000 a day, who has been turning
his employees over to the government relief rolls in order to preserve his company's undistributed
reserves, tell you--using his stockholders' money to pay the postage for his personal opinions--that
a wage of $11 a week is going to have a disastrous effect on all American industry. Fortunately
for business as a whole, and therefore for the nation, that type of executive is a rarity with
whom most business executives most heartily disagree.

(3) The Congress has provided a fact-finding Commission to find a path through the jungle of
contradictory theories about the wise business practices--to find the necessary facts for any
intelligent legislation on monopoly, on price-fixing and on the relationship between big business
and medium-sized business and little business. Different from a great part of the world, we
in America persist in our belief in individual enterprise and in the profit motive; but we
realize we must continually seek improved practices to insure the continuance of reasonable
profits, together with scientific progress, individual initiative, opportunities for the little
fellow, fair prices, decent wages and continuing employment.

(4) The Congress has coordinated the supervision of commercial aviation and air mail by establishing
a new Civil Aeronautics Authority; and it has placed all postmasters under the civil service
for the first time in our national history.

(5) The Congress set up the United States Housing Authority to help finance large-scale slum
clearance and provide low rent housing for the low income groups in our cities.  And by improving
the Federal Housing Act, the Congress made it easier for private capital to build modest homes
and low rental dwellings.

(6) The Congress has properly reduced taxes on small corporate enterprises, and has made it
easier for the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to make credit available to all business.
I think the bankers of the country can fairly be expected to participate in loans where the
government, through the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, offers to take a fair portion of
the risk.

(7) The Congress has provided additional funds for the Works Progress Administration, the Public
Works Administration, the Rural Electrification Administration, the Civilian Conservation Corps
and other agencies, in order to take care of what we hope is a temporary additional number
of unemployed at this time and to encourage production of every kind by private enterprise.

All these things together I call our program for the national defense of our economic system.
It is a program of balanced action--of moving on all fronts at once in intelligent recognition
that all of our economic problems, of every group, and of every section of the country are
essentially one problem.

(8) Finally, because of increasing armaments in other nations and an international situation
which is definitely disturbing to all of us, the Congress has authorized important additions
to the national armed defense of our shores and our people.

On another important subject the net result of a struggle in the Congress has been an important
victory for the people of the United States--what might well be called a lost battle which
won a war.

You will remember that on February 5, 1937, I sent a message to the Congress dealing with the
real need of federal court reforms of several kinds.  In one way or another, during the sessions
of this Congress, the ends--the real objectives--sought in that message, have been substantially
attained.

The attitude of the Supreme Court towards constitutional questions is entirely changed.  Its
recent decisions are eloquent testimony of a willingness to collaborate with the two other
branches of government to make democracy work.  The government has been granted the right to
protect its interests in litigation between private parties involving the constitutionality
of federal, and to appeal directly to the Supreme Court in all cases involving the constitutionality
of federal statutes; and no single judge is any longer empowered to suspend a federal statute
on his sole judgment as to its constitutionality.  Justices of the Supreme Court may now retire
at the age of seventy after ten years of service; a substantial number of additional judgeships
have been created in order to expedite the trial of cases; and finally greater flexibility
has been added to the federal judicial system by allowing judges to be assigned to congested
districts.

Another indirect accomplishment of this Congress has been its response to the devotion of the
American people to a course of sane and consistent liberalism.  The Congress has understood
that under modern conditions government has a continuing responsibility to meet continuing
problems, and that government cannot take a holiday of a year, or a month, or even a day just
because a few people are tired or frightened by the inescapable pace, fast pace, of this modern
world in which we live.

Some of my opponents and some of my associates have considered that I have a mistakenly sentimental
judgment as to the tenacity of purpose and the general level of intelligence of the American
people.

I am still convinced that the American people, since 1932, continue to insist on two requisites
of private enterprise, and the relationship of government to it.  The first is a complete honesty
at the top in looking after the use of other people's money, and in apportioning and paying
individual and corporate taxes according to ability to pay.  The second is sincere respect
for the need of all people who are at the bottom, all people at the bottom who need to get
work--and through work to get a really fair share of the good things of life, and a chance
to save and rise.

After the election of 1936 I was told, and the Congress was told, by an increasing number of
politically--and worldly--wise people that I should coast along, enjoy an easy Presidency for
four years, and not take the Democratic platform too seriously.  They told me that people were
getting weary of reform through political effort and would no longer oppose that small minority
which, in spite of its own disastrous leadership in 1929, is always eager to resume its control
over the government of the United States.

Never in our lifetime has such a concerted campaign of defeatism been thrown at the heads of
the President and the Senators and Congressmen as in the case of this Seventy-Fifth Congress.
Never before have we had so many Copperheads--and you will remember that it was the Copperheads
who, in the days of the War between the States, tried their best to make President Lincoln
and his Congress give up the fight, let the nation remain split in two and return to peace--peace
at any price.

This Congress has ended on the side of the people.  My faith in the American people--and their
faith in themselves--have been justified.  I congratulate the Congress and the leadership thereof
and I congratulate the American people on their own staying power.

One word about our economic situation.  It makes no difference to me whether you call it a
recession or a depression.  In 1932 the total national income of all the people in the country
had reached the low point of thirty-eight billion dollars in that year.  With each succeeding
year it rose.  Last year, 1937, it had risen to seventy billion dollars--despite definitely
worse business and agricultural prices in the last four months of last year.  This year, 1938,
while it is too early to do more than give an estimate, we hope that the national income will
not fall below sixty billion dollars.  We remember also that banking and business and farming
are not falling apart like the one-hoss shay, as they did in the terrible winter of 1932-1933.

Last year mistakes were made by the leaders of private enterprise, by the leaders of labor
and by the leaders of government--all three.

Last year the leaders of private enterprise pleaded for a sudden curtailment of public spending,
and said they would take up the slack.  But they made the mistake of increasing their inventories
too fast and setting many of their prices too high for their goods to sell.

Some labor leaders goaded by decades of oppression of labor made the mistake of going too far.
They were not wise in using methods which frightened many well-wishing people.  They asked
employers not only to bargain with them but to put up with jurisdictional disputes at the same
time.

Government too made mistakes--mistakes of optimism in assuming that industry and labor would
themselves make no mistakes--and government made a mistake of timing in not passing a farm
bill or a wage and hour bill last year.

As a result of the lessons of all these mistakes we hope that in the future private enterprise--capital
and labor alike--will operate more intelligently together, and operate in greater cooperation
with their own government than they have in the past. Such cooperation on the part of both
of them will be very welcome to me.  Certainly at this stage there should be a united stand
on the part of both of them to resist wage cuts which would further reduce purchasing power.

Today a great steel company announced a reduction in prices with a view to stimulating business
recovery, and I was gratified to know that this reduction involved no wage cut.  Every encouragement
ought to be given to industry which accepts the large volume and high wage policy.

If this is done, it ought to result in conditions which will replace a great part of the government
spending which the failure of cooperation has made necessary this year.

From March 4, 1933 down, not a single week has passed without a cry from the opposition, a
small opposition, a cry "to do something, to say something, to restore confidence."  There
is a very articulate group of people in this country, with plenty of ability to procure publicity
for their views, who have consistently refused to cooperate with the mass of the people, whether
things were going well or going badly, on the ground that they required more concessions to
their point of view before they would admit having what they called "confidence."

These people demanded "restoration of confidence" when the banks were closed--and demanded
it again when the banks were reopened.

They demanded "restoration of confidence" when hungry people were thronging the streets--and
again when the hungry people were fed and put to work.

They demanded "restoration of confidence" when droughts hit the country--and again now when
our fields are laden with bounteous yields and excessive crops.

They demanded "restoration of confidence" last year when the automobile industry was running
three shifts and turning out more cars than the country could buy--and again this year when
the industry is trying to get rid of an automobile surplus and has shut down its factories
as a result.

It is my belief that many of these people who have been crying aloud for "confidence" are beginning
today to realize that that hand has been overplayed, and that they are now willing to talk
cooperation instead.  It is my belief that the mass of the American people do have confidence
in themselves--have confidence in their ability, with the aid of government, to solve their
own problems.

It is because you are not satisfied, and I am not satisfied, with the progress that we have
made in finally solving our business and agricultural and social problems that I believe the
great majority of you want your own government to keep on trying to solve them.  In simple
frankness and in simple honesty, I need all the help I can get--and I see signs of getting
more help in the future from many who have fought against progress with tooth and nail.

And now following out this line of thought, I want to say a few words about the coming political
primaries.

Fifty years ago party nominations were generally made in conventions--a system typified in
the public imagination by a little group in a smoke-filled room who made out the party slates.

The direct primary was invented to make the nominating process a more democratic one--to give
the party voters themselves a chance to pick their party candidates.

What I am going to say to you tonight does not relate to the primaries of any particular political
party, but to matters of principle in all parties--Democratic, Republican, Farmer-Labor, Progressive,
Socialist or any other.  Let that be clearly understood.

It is my hope that everybody affiliated with any party will vote in the primaries, and that
every such voter will consider the fundamental principles for which his or her party is on
record. That makes for a healthy choice between the candidates of the opposing parties on Election
Day in November.

An election cannot give the country a firm sense of direction if it has two or more national
parties which merely have different names but are as alike in their principles and aims as
peas in the same pod.

In the coming primaries in all parties, there will be many clashes between two schools of thought,
generally classified as liberal and conservative.  Roughly speaking, the liberal school of
thought recognizes that the new conditions throughout the world call for new remedies.

Those of us in America who hold to this school of thought, insist that these new remedies can
be adopted and successfully maintained in this country under our present form of government
if we use government as an instrument of cooperation to provide these remedies.  We believe
that we can solve our problems through continuing effort, through democratic processes instead
of Fascism or Communism.  We are opposed to the kind of moratorium on reform which, in effect,
is reaction itself.

Be it clearly understood, however, that when I use the word "liberal," I mean the believer
in progressive principles of democratic, representative government and not the wild man who,
in effect, leans in the direction of Communism, for that is just as dangerous as Fascism itself.

The opposing or conservative school of thought, as a general proposition, does not recognize
the need for government itself to step in and take action to meet these new problems.  It believes
that individual initiative and private philanthropy will solve them--that we ought to repeal
many of the things we have done and go back, for instance, to the old gold standard, or stop
all this business of old age pensions and unemployment insurance, or repeal the Securities
and Exchange Act, or let monopolies thrive unchecked--return, in effect, to the kind of government
that we had in the twenties.

Assuming the mental capacity of all the candidates, the important question which it seems to
me the primary voter must ask is this: "To which of these general schools of thought does the
candidate belong?"

As President of the United States, I am not asking the voters of the country to vote for Democrats
next November as opposed to Republicans or members of any other party.  Nor am I, as President,
taking part in Democratic primaries.

As the head of the Democratic Party, however, charged with the responsibility of carrying out
the definitely liberal declaration of principles set forth in the 1936 Democratic platform,
I feel that I have every right to speak in those few instances where there may be a clear-cut
issue between candidates for a Democratic nomination involving these principles, or involving
a clear misuse of my own name.

Do not misunderstand me.  I certainly would not indicate a preference in a state primary merely
because a candidate, otherwise liberal in outlook, had conscientiously differed with me on
any single issue.  I should be far more concerned about the general attitude of a candidate
towards present day problems and his own inward desire to get practical needs attended to in
a practical way.  We all know that progress may be blocked by outspoken reactionaries, and
also by those who say "yes" to a progressive objective, but who always find some reason to
oppose any special specific proposal to gain that objective.  I call that type of candidate
a "yes, but" fellow.

And I am concerned about the attitude of a candidate or his sponsors with respect to the rights
of American citizens to assemble peaceably and to express publicly their views and opinions
on important social and economic issues.  There can be no constitutional democracy in any community
which denies to the individual his freedom to speak and worship as he wishes.  The American
people will not be deceived by anyone who attempts to suppress individual liberty under the
pretense of patriotism.

This being a free country with freedom of expression--especially with freedom of the press--there
will be a lot of mean blows struck between now and Election Day.  By "blows" I mean misrepresentation,
personal attack and appeals to prejudice.  It would be a lot better, of course, if campaigns
everywhere could be waged with arguments instead of with blows.

I hope the liberal candidates will confine themselves to argument and not resort to blows.
In nine cases out of ten the speaker or the writer who, seeking to influence public opinion,
descends from calm argument to unfair blows hurts himself more than his opponent.

The Chinese have a story on this--a story based on three or four thousand years of civilization:
Two Chinese coolies were arguing heatedly in the midst of a crowd.  A stranger expressed surprise
that no blows were being struck.  His Chinese friend replied:  "The man who strikes first admits
that his ideas have given out."

I know that neither in the summer primaries nor in the November elections will the American
voters fail to spot the candidate whose ideas have given out.

September 3, 1939.

My Fellow Americans and My Friends:

Tonight my single duty is to speak to the whole of America.

Until four-thirty this morning I had hoped against hope that some miracle would prevent a devastating
war in Europe and bring to an end the invasion of Poland by Germany.

For four long years a succession of actual wars and constant crises have shaken the entire
world and have threatened in each case to bring on the gigantic conflict which is today unhappily
a fact.

It is right that I should recall to your minds the consistent and at time successful efforts
of your government in these crises to throw the full weight of the United States into the cause
of peace. In spite of spreading wars I think that we have every right and every reason to maintain
as a national policy the fundamental moralities, the teachings of religion and the continuation
of efforts to restore peace--for some day, though the time may be distant, we can be of even
greater help to a crippled humanity.

It is right, too, to point out that the unfortunate events of these recent years have, without
question, been based on the use of force and the threat of force.  And it seems to me clear,
even at the outbreak of this great war, that the influence of America should be consistent
in seeking for humanity a final peace which will eliminate, as far as it is possible to do
so, the continued use of force between nations.

It is, of course, impossible to predict the future.  I have my constant stream of information
from American representatives and other sources throughout the world.  You, the people of this
country, are receiving news through your radios and your newspapers at every hour of the day.

You are, I believe, the most enlightened and the best informed people in all the world at this
moment.  You are subjected to no censorship of news, and I want to add that your government
has no information which it withholds or which it has any thought of withholding from you.

At the same time, as I told my Press Conference on Friday, it is of the highest importance
that the press and the radio use the utmost caution to discriminate between actual verified
fact on the one hand, and mere rumor on the other.

I can add to that by saying that I hope the people of this country will also discriminate most
carefully between news and rumor.  Do not believe of necessity everything you hear or read.
Check up on it first.

You must master at the outset a simple but unalterable fact in modern foreign relations between
nations.  When peace has been broken anywhere, the peace of all countries everywhere is in danger.

It is easy for you and for me to shrug our shoulders and to say that conflicts taking place
thousands of miles from the continental United States, and, indeed, thousands of miles from
the whole American Hemisphere, do not seriously affect the Americas--and that all the United
States has to do is to ignore them and go about its own business.  Passionately though we may
desire detachment, we are forced to realize that every word that comes through the air, every
ship that sails the sea, every battle that is fought does affect the American future.

Let no man or woman thoughtlessly or falsely talk of America sending its armies to European
fields.  At this moment there is being prepared a proclamation of American neutrality.  This
would have been done even if there had been no neutrality statute on the books, for this proclamation
is in accordance with international law and in accordance with American policy.

This will be followed by a Proclamation required by the existing Neutrality Act.  And I trust
that in the days to come our neutrality can be made a true neutrality.

It is of the utmost importance that the people of this country, with the best information in
the world, think things through.  The most dangerous enemies of American peace are those who,
without well-rounded information on the whole broad subject of the past, the present and the
future, undertake to speak with assumed authority, to talk in terms of glittering generalities,
to give to the nation assurances or prophecies which are of little present or future value.

I myself cannot and do not prophesy the course of events abroad-- and the reason is that because
I have of necessity such a complete picture of what is going on in every part of the world,
that I do not dare to do so.  And the other reason is that I think it is honest for me to be
honest with the people of the United States.

I cannot prophesy the immediate economic effect of this new war on our nation, but I do say
that no American has the moral right to profiteer at the expense either of his fellow citizens
or of the men, the women and the children who are living and dying in the midst of war in Europe.

Some things we do know.  Most of us in the United States believe in spiritual values.  Most
of us, regardless of what church we belong to, believe in the spirit of the New Testament--a
great teaching which opposes itself to the use of force, of armed force, of marching armies
and falling bombs.  The overwhelming masses of our people seek peace--peace at home, and the
kind of peace in other lands which will not jeopardize our peace at home.

We have certain ideas and certain ideals of national safety and we must act to preserve that
safety today and to preserve the safety of our children in future years.

That safety is and will be bound up with the safety of the Western Hemisphere and of the seas
adjacent thereto.  We seek to keep war from our own firesides by keeping war from coming to
the Americas. For that we have historic precedent that goes back to the days of the administration
of President George Washington.  It is serious enough and tragic enough to every American family
in every state in the Union to live in a world that is torn by wars on other continents.  Those
wars today affect every American home.  It is our national duty to use every effort to keep
them out of the Americas.

And at this time let me make the simple plea that partisanship and selfishness be adjourned;
and that national unity be the thought that underlies all others.

This nation will remain a neutral nation, but I cannot ask that every American remain neutral
in thought as well.  Even a neutral has a right to take account of facts.  Even a neutral cannot
be asked to close his mind or his conscience.

I have said not once but many times that I have seen war and that I hate war.  I say that again
and again.

I hope the United States will keep out of this war.  I believe that it will.  And I give you
assurance and reassurance that every effort of your government will be directed toward that end.

As long as it remains within my power to prevent, there will be no blackout of peace in the
United States.

May 26, 1940.

My Friends:

At this moment of sadness throughout most of the world, I want to talk with you about a number
of subjects that directly affect the future of the United States.  We are shocked by the almost
incredible eyewitness stories that come to us, stories of what is happening at this moment
to the civilian populations of Norway and Holland and Belgium and Luxembourg and France.

I think it is right on this Sabbath evening that I should say a word in behalf of women and
children and old men who need help-- immediate help in their present distress--help from us
across the seas, help from us who are still free to give it.

Tonight over the once peaceful roads of Belgium and France millions are now moving, running
from their homes to escape bombs and shells and fire and machine gunning, without shelter,
and almost wholly without food.  They stumble on, knowing not where the end of the road will
be.  I speak to you of these people because each one of you that is listening to me tonight
has a way of helping them.  The American Red Cross, that represents each of us, is rushing
food and clothing and medical supplies to these destitute civilian millions. Please--I beg
you--please give according to your means to your nearest Red Cross chapter, give as generously
as you can.  I ask this in the name of our common humanity.

Let us sit down together again, you and I, to consider our own pressing problems that confront us.

There are many among us who in the past closed their eyes to events abroad--because they believed
in utter good faith what some of their fellow Americans told them--that what was taking place
in Europe was none of our business; that no matter what happened over there, the United States
could always pursue its peaceful and unique course in the world.

There are many among us who closed their eyes, from lack of interest or lack of knowledge;
honestly and sincerely thinking that the many hundreds of miles of salt water made the American
Hemisphere so remote that the people of North and Central and South America could go on living
in the midst of their vast resources without reference to, or danger from, other Continents
of the world.

There are some among us who were persuaded by minority groups that we could maintain our physical
safety by retiring within our continental boundaries--the Atlantic on the east, the Pacific
on the west, Canada on the north and Mexico on the south.  I illustrated the futility--the
impossibility--of that idea in my message to the Congress last week.  Obviously, a defense
policy based on that is merely to invite future attack.

And, finally, there are a few among us who have deliberately and consciously closed their eyes
because they were determined to be opposed to their government, its foreign policy and every
other policy, to be partisan, and to believe that anything that the government did was wholly
wrong.

To those who have closed their eyes for any of these many reasons, to those who would not admit
the possibility of the approaching storm--to all of them the past two weeks have meant the
shattering of many illusions.

They have lost the illusion that we are remote and isolated and, therefore, secure against
the dangers from which no other land is free.

In some quarters, with this rude awakening has come fear, fear bordering on panic.  It is said
that we are defenseless.  It is whispered by some that, only by abandoning our freedom, our
ideals, our way of life, can we build our defenses adequately, can we match the strength of
the aggressors.

I did not share those illusions.  I do not share these fears.

Today we are now more realistic.  But let us not be calamity-howlers and discount our strength.
Let us have done with both fears and illusions.  On this Sabbath evening, in our homes in the
midst of our American families, let us calmly consider what we have done and what we must do.

In the past two or three weeks all kinds of stories have been handed out to the American public
about our lack of preparedness. It has even been charged that the money we have spent on our
military and naval forces during the last few years has gone down the rat-hole.  I think that
it is a matter of fairness to the nation that you hear the facts.

Yes, we have spent large sums of money on the national defense. This money has been used to
make our Army and Navy today the largest, the best equipped, and the best trained peace-time
military establishment in the whole history of this country.

Let me tell you just a few of the many things accomplished during the past few years.

I do not propose to go into every detail.  It is a known fact, however, that in 1933, when
this administration came into office, the United States Navy had fallen in standing among the
navies of the world, in power of ships and in efficiency, to a relatively low ebb.  The relative
fighting power on the Navy had been greatly diminished by failure to replace ships and equipment,
which had become out-of-date.

But between 1933 and this year, 1940--seven fiscal years--your government will have spent one
billion, four hundred eighty-seven million dollars more than it spent on the Navy during the
seven years that preceded 1933.

What did we get for this money?

The fighting personnel of the Navy rose from 79,000 to 145,000.

During this period 215 ships for the fighting fleet have been laid down or commissioned, practically
seven times the number in the preceding seven-year period.

Of these 215 ships we have commissioned: 12 cruisers; 63 destroyers; 26 submarines; 3 aircraft
carriers; 2 gunboats; 7 auxiliaries and many smaller craft.  And among the many ships now being
built and paid for as we build them are 8 new battleships.

Ship construction, of course, costs millions of dollars--more in the United States than anywhere
else in the world; but it is a fact that we cannot have adequate navy defense for all American
waters without ships--ships that sail the surface of the ocean, ships that move under the surface
and ships that move through the air.  And, speaking of airplanes that work with the Navy, in
1933 we had 1,127 useful aircraft and today we have 2,892 on hand and on order. Nearly all
of the old planes of 1933 have been replaced by new planes because they became obsolete or
worn out.

The Navy Is far stronger today than at any peace-time period in the whole long history of the
nation.  In hitting power and in efficiency, I would even make the assertion that it is stronger
today than it was during the World War.

The Army of the United States:  In 1933 it consisted of 122,000 enlisted men.  Now, in 1940,
that number has been practically doubled.  The Army of 1933 had been given few new implements
of war since 1919, and had been compelled to draw on old reserve stocks left over from the
World War.

The net result of all this was that our Army by l933 had very greatly declined in its ratio
of strength with the armies of Europe and of the Far East.

That was the situation I found.

But, since then, great changes have taken place.

Between 1933 and 1940--these past seven fiscal years--your government will have spent $1,292,000,000
more than it spent on the Army the previous seven years.

What did we get for this money?

The personnel of the Army, as I have said, has been almost doubled. And by the end of this
year every existing unit of the present regular Army will be equipped with its complete requirements
of modern weapons.  Existing units of the national Guard will also be largely equipped with
similar items.

Here are some striking examples taken from a large number:

Since 1933 we have actually purchased 5,640 airplanes, including the most modern type of long-range
bombers and fast pursuit planes, though, of course, many of these which were delivered four,
five, six or seven years ago have worn out through use and been scrapped.

We must remember that these planes cost money--a lot of it.  For example, one modern four-engine
long-range bombing plane costs $350,000; one modern interceptor pursuit plane costs $133,000;
one medium bomber costs $160,000.

In 1933 we had only 355 anti-aircraft guns.  We now have more than 1,700 modern anti-craft
guns of all types on hand or on order.  And you ought to know that a three-inch anti-aircraft
gun costs $40,000 without any of the fire control equipment that goes with it.

In 1933 there were only 24 modern infantry mortars in the entire Army.  We now have on hand
and on order more than 1,600.

In 1933 we had only 48 modern tanks and armored cars; today we have on hand and on order 1,700.
Each one of our heavier tanks costs $46,000.

There are many other items in which our progress since 1933 has been rapid.  And the great
proportion of this advance consists of really modern equipment.

In 1933, on the personnel side we had 1,263 Army pilots.  Today the Army alone has more than
3,000 of the best fighting flyers in the world, flyers who last year flew more than one million
hours in combat training.  That figure does not include the hundreds of splendid pilots in
the national Guard and in the organized reserves.

Within the past year the productive capacity of the aviation industry to produce military planes
has been tremendously increased.  In the past year the capacity more than doubled, but that
capacity is still inadequate.  However, the government, working with industry, is determined
to increase that capacity to meet our needs.  We intend to harness the efficient machinery
of these manufacturers to the government's program of being able to get 50,000 planes a year.

One additional word about aircraft, about which we read so much. Recent wars, including the
current war in Europe, have demonstrated beyond doubt that fighting efficiency depends on unity
of command, unity of control.

In sea operations the airplane is just as much an integral part of the unity of operations
as are the submarine, the destroyer and the battleship, and in land warfare the airplane is
just as much a part of military operations as are the tank corps, the engineers, the artillery
or the infantry itself.  Therefore, the air forces should continue to be part of the Army and Navy.

In line with my request the Congress, this week, is voting the largest appropriation ever asked
by the Army or the Navy in peacetime, and the equipment and training provided for them will
be in addition to the figures I have given you.

The world situation may so change that it will be necessary to reappraise our program at any
time.  And in such case I am confident that the Congress and the Chief Executive will work
in harmony as a team as they are doing today.

I will not hesitate at any moment to ask for additional funds when they are required.

In this era of swift, mechanized warfare, we all have to remember that what is modern today
and up-to-date, what is efficient and practical, becomes obsolete and outworn tomorrow.

Even while the production line turns out airplanes, new airplanes are being designed on the
drafting table.

Even as a cruiser slides down the launching ways, plans for improvement, plans for increased
efficiency in the next model, are taking shape in the blueprints of designers.

Every day's fighting in Europe, on land, on sea, and in the air, discloses constant changes
in methods of warfare.  We are constantly improving and redesigning, testing new weapons, learning
the lessons of the immediate war, and seeking to produce in accordance with the latest that
the brains of science can conceive.

We are calling upon the resources, the efficiency and the ingenuity of the American manufacturers
of war material of all kinds-- airplanes and tanks and guns and ships, and all the hundreds
of products that go into this material.  The government of the United States itself manufactures
few of the implements of war.  Private industry will continue to be the source of most of this
materiel, and private industry will have to be speeded up to produce it at the rate and efficiency
called for by the needs of the times.

I know that private business cannot be expected to make all of the capital investment required
for expansions of plants and factories and personnel which this program calls for at once.
It would be unfair to expect industrial corporations or their investors to do this, when there
is a chance that a change in international affairs may stop or curtail future orders a year
or two hence.

Therefore, the government of the United States stands ready to advance the necessary money
to help provide for the enlargement of factories, the establishment of new plants, the employment
of thousands of necessary workers, the development of new sources of supply for the hundreds
of raw materials required, the development of quick mass transportation of supplies.  And the
details of all of this are now being worked out in Washington, day and night.

We are calling on men now engaged in private industry to help us in carrying out this program
and you will hear more of this in detail in the next few days.

This does not mean that the men we call upon will be engaged in the actual production of this
materiel.  That will still have to be carried on in the plants and factories throughout the
land.  Private industry will have the responsibility of providing the best, speediest and most
efficient mass production of which it is capable.  The functions of the businessmen whose assistance
we are calling upon will be to coordinate this program--to see to it that all of the plants
continue to operate at maximum speed and efficiency.

Patriotic Americans of proven merit and of unquestioned ability in their special fields are
coming to Washington to help the government with their training, their experience and their
capability.

It is our purpose not only to speed up production but to increase the total facilities of the
nation in such a way that they can be further enlarged to meet emergencies of the future.

But as this program proceeds there are several things we must continue to watch and safeguard,
things which are just as important to the sound defense of a nation as physical armament itself.
While our Navy and our airplanes and our guns and our ships may be our first line of defense,
it is still clear that way down at the bottom, underlying them all, giving them their strength,
sustenance and power, are the spirit and morale of a free people.

For that reason, we must make sure, in all that we do, that there be no breakdown or cancellation
of any of the great social gains which we have made in these past years.  We have carried on
an offensive on a broad front against social and economic inequalities and abuses which had
made our society weak.  That offensive should not now be broken down by the pincers movement
of those who would use the present needs of physical military defense to destroy it.

There is nothing in our present emergency to justify making the workers of our nation toil
for longer hours than now limited by statute.  As more orders come in and as more work has
to be done, tens of thousands of people, who are now unemployed, will, I believe, receive employment.

There is nothing in our present emergency to justify a lowering of the standards of employment.
Minimum wages should not be reduced. It is my hope, indeed, that the new speed-up of production
will cause many businesses which now pay below the minimum standards to bring their wages up.

There is nothing in our present emergency to justify a breaking down of old age pensions or
of unemployment insurance.  I would rather see the systems extended to other groups who do
not now enjoy them.

There is nothing in our present emergency to justify a retreat from any of our social objectives--from
conservation of natural resources, assistance to agriculture, housing, and help to the underprivileged.

Conversely, however, I am sure that responsible leaders will not permit some specialized group,
which represents a minority of the total employees of a plant or an industry, to break up the
continuity of employment of the majority of the employees.  Let us remember that the policy
and the laws that provide for collective bargaining are still in force.  I can assure you that
labor will be adequately represented in Washington in the carrying out of this program of defense.

Also, our present emergency and a common sense of decency make it imperative that no new group
of war millionaires shall come into being in this nation as a result of the struggles abroad.
The American people will not relish the idea of any American citizen growing rich and fat in
an emergency of blood and slaughter and human suffering.

And, last of all, this emergency demands that the consumers of America be protected so that
our general cost of living can be maintained at a reasonable level.  We ought to avoid the
spiral processes of the World War, the rising spiral of costs of all kinds.  The soundest policy
is for every employer in the country to help give useful employment to the millions who are
unemployed.  By giving to those millions an increased purchasing power, the prosperity of the
whole nation will rise to a much higher level.

Today's threat to our national security is not a matter of military weapons alone.  We know
of new methods of attack.

The Trojan Horse.  The Fifth Column that betrays a nation unprepared for treachery.

Spies, saboteurs and traitors are the actors in this new strategy. With all of these we must
and will deal vigorously.

But there is an added technique for weakening a nation at its very roots, for disrupting the
entire pattern of life of a people.  And it is important that we understand it.

The method is simple.  It is, first, a dissemination of discord.  A group--not too large--a
group that may be sectional or racial or political--is encouraged to exploit its prejudices
through false slogans and emotional appeals.  The aim of those who deliberately egg on these
groups is to create confusion of counsel, public indecision, political paralysis and eventually,
a state of panic.

Sound national policies come to be viewed with a new and unreasoning skepticism, not through
the wholesome political debates of honest and free men, but through the clever schemes of foreign
agents.

As a result of these new techniques, armament programs may be dangerously delayed.  Singleness
of national purpose may be undermined.  Men can lose confidence in each other, and therefore
lose confidence in the efficacy of their own united action.  Faith and courage can yield to
doubt and fear.  The unity of the State can be so sapped that its strength is destroyed.

All this is no idle dream.  It has happened time after time, in nation after nation, during
the last two years.  Fortunately, American men and women are not easy dupes.  Campaigns of
group hatred or class struggle have never made much headway among us, and are not making headway
now.  But new forces are being unleashed, deliberately planned propaganda to divide and weaken
us in the face of danger as other nations have been weakened before.

These dividing forces are undiluted poison.  They must not be allowed to spread in the New
World as they have in the Old.  Our morale and our mental defenses must be raised up as never
before against those who would cast a smokescreen across our vision.

The development of our defense program makes it essential that each and every one of us, men
and women, feel that we have some contribution to make toward the security of our nation.

At this time, when the world--and the world includes our own American Hemisphere--when the
world is threatened by forces of destruction, it is my resolve and yours to build up our armed
defenses.

We shall build them to whatever heights the future may require.

We shall rebuild them swiftly, as the methods of warfare swiftly change.

For more than three centuries we Americans have been building on this continent a free society,
a society in which the promise of the human spirit may find fulfillment.  Commingled here are
the blood and genius of all the peoples of the world who have sought this promise.

We have built well.  We are continuing our efforts to bring the blessings of a free society,
of a free and productive economic system, to every family in the land.  This is the promise
of America.

It is this that we must continue to build--this that we must continue to defend.

It is the task of our generation, yours and mine.  But we build and defend not for our generation
alone.  We defend the foundations laid down by our fathers.  We build a life for generations
yet unborn.  We defend and we build a way of life, not for America alone, but for all mankind.
Ours is a high duty, a noble task.

Day and night I pray for the restoration of peace in this mad world of ours.  It is not necessary
that I, the President, ask the American people to pray in behalf of such a cause--for I know
you are praying with me.

I am certain that out of the hearts of every man, woman and child in this land, in every waking
minute, a supplication goes up to Almighty God; that all of us beg that suffering and starving,
that death and destruction may end--and that peace may return to the world.  In common affection
for all mankind, your prayers join with mine--that God will heal the wounds and the hearts
of humanity.

September 11, 1941.

My Fellow Americans:

The Navy Department of the United States has reported to me that on the morning of September
fourth the United States destroyer GREER, proceeding in full daylight towards Iceland, had
reached a point southeast of Greenland.  She was carrying American mail to Iceland. She was
flying the American flag.  Her identity as an American ship was unmistakable.

She was then and there attacked by a submarine.  Germany admits that it was a German submarine.
The submarine deliberately fired a torpedo at the GREER, followed later by another torpedo
attack.  In spite of what Hitler's propaganda bureau has invented, and in spite of what any
American obstructionist organization may prefer to believe, I tell you the blunt fact that
the German submarine fired first upon this American destroyer without warning, and with deliberate
design to sink her.

Our destroyer, at the time, was in waters which the government of the United States had declared
to be waters of self-defense-- surrounding outposts of American protection in the Atlantic.

In the North of the Atlantic, outposts have been established by us in Iceland, in Greenland,
in Labrador and in Newfoundland.  Through these waters there pass many ships of many flags.
They bear food and other supplies to civilians; and they bear material of war, for which the
people of the United States are spending billions of dollars, and which, by Congressional action,
they have declared to be essential for the defense of our own land.

The United States destroyer, when attacked, was proceeding on a legitimate mission.

If the destroyer was visible to the submarine when the torpedo was fired, then the attack was
a deliberate attempt by the Nazis to sink a clearly identified American warship.  On the other
hand, if the submarine was beneath the surface of the sea and, with the aid of its listening
devices, fired in the direction of the sound of the American destroyer without even taking
the trouble to learn its identity--as the official German communique would indicate--then the
attack was even more outrageous.  For it indicates a policy of indiscriminate violence against
any vessel sailing the seas-- belligerent or non-belligerent.

This was piracy--piracy legally and morally.  It was not the first nor the last act of piracy
which the Nazi government has committed against the American flag in this war.  For attack
has followed attack.

A few months ago an American flag merchant ship, the ROBIN MOOR, was sunk by a Nazi submarine
in the middle of the South Atlantic, under circumstances violating long-established international
law and violating every principle of humanity.  The passengers and the crew were forced into
open boats hundreds of miles from land, in direct violation of international agreements signed
by nearly all nations including the government of Germany. 

Since all attended Nina, and no need of the people under their care is forgot, saw fit to warn
the ladies of San Andrés Costanilla, sure have missed the absence of a dependent.

"Yes, bring me the favor of a recadito on my part - said the gallant, admiring this new trait estimate
-. Tell you what you like, and certainly leave me in good stead. "

Benin did so early evening, and the next morning, with fresh, started
again his walk to the Bridge of Toledo.

XXVIII

He found a tattered old man who used to ask, with a girl in her arms, at the Oratory Olivet,
which told him crying over their misfortunes, which would be enough to break the rocks. The
daughter of this mother of the child, and one that stayed home sick one neighbor, had died two
days' misery, lady, tired of so much suffering laying the gofes in search of a medium muffin. "
What did it now with two kids, not having to keep if for himself did not draw? The Lord had
his hand stopped. No saint in heaven and damned if he did. Wanted no more to die, and to bury
soon, soon, to stop seeing the world. His only aspiration was to leave worldly colocaditas the two
girls in a arrecogimiento of many that are for infants of both sexes. And in order to see his
evil shadow! ... He had found a kind soul, a man ecclesiastical who offered the girls put
in an asylum, but when I thought I had managed the business, the
devil came to break it down ... "You see, Madam, do you know a man
by chance very priest showed up called D. Romualdo?

- I think so
- said the beggar, again feeling a lot of confusion or dizziness in
head.

- Tall, well built, habits of fine cloth, or old or young.

-
He says that is called D. Romualdo?

- D. Romualdo, yes ma'am.

-
Will ... by chance, one that has a niece named Doña Patros?

- I do
not know how to call, but niece is ... and pretty.

Well, you see my dog ​​lucky. Was in me, yesterday afternoon, right. I'm going home, and tell
me that he had gone to Guadalajara.

- Just ...-- Benina said, more
confused, feeling that the real and imaginary scrambling and intertwined
in the brain -.

But soon will come.

- I wonder if he returns.

"

Then the old man said to be dying of hunger had not entered his mouth,
in three days, more than a piece of raw cod that occurred in a shop,
and some of corruscos bread, dipped in the fountain to soften them,
because they had no bone in the mouth.

From San Jose Day that took the soup in the Sacred Heart, there was no remedy for it; defense
was nowhere, the sky did not like him, nor the earth either.

Eighty and two years old on February 3, San Blas blessed, a day after
the Candelaria, why what I wanted to live or what had been lost here?

A man who served the King twelve years that for forty-five had been stung thousands of thousands
of tons of stone on these roads of God, and that was always well regarded and puntoso, had nothing
to do and, more to entrust the gravedigger who put a lot of land, much land over, and pack it.
In quantitative placed the two creatures, would lie not rise until the day of Judgement in
the afternoon ... And rise last! Pierced with grief upon hearing the reference Benina so much
misfortune, whose sincerity could not put into question, said the old man to take her to where
the child was ill, and soon was conducted to a room dark, on the ground floor Large house corridor,
where they lived together, for the payment of three pesetas a month, average dozen beggars with their
offspring. Most of these complained bitterly at the time in Madrid, looking for the holy bitch.
Benina saw only an old, petiseca and sleepy, it seemed drunk, and a potbellied female, swollen,
vinous, tight skin, like a corambre filled with the face Erysipelas, poorly wrapped in cloths
of different colors. On the ground, on a thin mattress covered with pieces of yellow cloth and tattered
blankets Morella, lay the sick girl, about six years, the pale face, clenched fists in the
mouth. "What has this creature is hungry - Benina said, who, having touched on the forehead and
hands, found it cold as marble.

- Maybe so, because hot thing has not come into our bodies from yesterday. "

No longer needed a kind old lady, that it overwhelms the piety, which flooded mighty your soul
and bringing to reality his intentions with the speed that was her property, was at once to the grocery
store in the corner of that building there, and bought you need to get a pot immediately,
also taking eggs, coal, cod ... because she never did things by halves. At the time, and were remedied
those unhappy and others were added, the smell induced across the
bottom of the hive soon spread.

And the Lord had to reward his charity, department, among the beggars
attended the banquet, a cripple with no legs, walking with arms, that
he gave him true news of the lost order Almudena.

Moor slept in the homes of Ulpian, and he spent the day praying hard, and playing a guitar with
two strings that Madrid had brought all this without leaving a section dunghill, which falls
below the flea season, at the bridge looking towards Segovia. There he was Benina slowly, because
the person who guided journey was slow, as one who walks with the buttocks bound in soil, on hands,
and these in two billets of wood. By the way, the man from the waist upwards ventured some
indications criticism of the Moor, and somewhat bizarre behavior. He thought that was Almudena
cleric in the land, wants to say, priest of Zancarrón, and in those
days was the majometana penance of Lent, which consists of giving
heels in the air, eat only bread and water, and moisten palms with
saliva.

"What the harp sings hoarse should be a matter of funerals there, because it sounds sad and
mourn feel like hearing it. In short, madam, there you have it lying on the carpet of peaks, and
so still it seems who have turned to stone. "

Distinguished, in fact, Benina the motionless figure of the blind, in a landfill, slag, rubble
and garbage, which is between the road and the path of Cambroneras amid absolute aridity, for neither
tree nor bush, nor any plant species growing there. He went on the despernado, and Benin, with
his basket on his arm, crawling up the heap, not without difficulty, for he loose material that
formed was the slope, slipped easily. Before winning could the height at which the African was,
loudly announced their arrival, saying: "But, son, go to a site that has been to choose to
put the sun! Do you want to dry off, and become leather drums? ... Eh ... Almudena, who am
I, who am I going up these carpeted stairs! ... Chico, but what? ... Are you stupid, you asleep?
".

The Moroccan did not move, her face turned toward the sun, like a piece of meat would toasting. Tirole
the old one, two, three stones, until he got hit. Almudena moved with trepidation, and his knees,
cried: "B'nina, you B'nina.

- Yes, my son: here's this poor old woman, who comes to see the wilderness where you dwell. Well
has not given you bad gust of wind! And that does not cost me a little work to find you!

- B'nina! - Excitedly repeated the blind child, who was revealed in
a flood of tears, and the shaking of hands and feet -.

You vinir sky.

- No, son, no - said the good woman, and arrived with him, and giving
slaps on shoulder -.

Not come from heaven, but I go to these cursed land crags. What an idea that has given you poor
Moor! Tell me, what is your country like that? ".

Mordechai did not answer this question, silenced them.

The blind man felt it with his hand trembling as if seeing it for the touch.

"I came - said the beggar at the end - because I thought, a guess,
you'd be starving.

- Did not eat me ...

- Do you do penance?

You could have put in a better place ...

- This micor ... Mount Bunite.

- What a mountain! What do you call this?

- Mount Sinai ... Me to be Sinai.

- Where you are is in the clouds.

- You vinir with angels, B'nina
... vinir you with fire.

- No, son, do not bring fire or necessary,
that enough achicharradito're here.

You're being drier than a cod.

- Micor ... I want to dry ... and burn like paix.

- In straw you
would become if I let you.

But do not leave, and now you eat and drink I bring in my basket.

-
Did not eat me ... squieleto me to be.

"

Without waiting for more reasons, Almudena spread his hands, touching
the ground.

He sought his guitar, Benin saw and picked up, two-stringed strumming intemperate.

"Dami, dami! - Said the blind impatient, inspiration hit."

And grabbing the instrument, struck the strings, and got them sounds sad, Broncos, without harmonic
coherence between them. And then began to sing in Arabic a strange chant, accompanied with dry
and rhythmic sounds that drew the two strings. Benina heard this Cantici with true devotion,
for though it told him nothing of the lyrics and guttural extremely rough, or the cadence of
similarity are found here styles, it is that such music was an intense melancholy. Constantly
moving the blind head, as if to lead the words of her song to different parts of the sky, and
set in Lays some vehemence and enthusiasm burning denoting that he was possessed.

"Well, son, well - the old woman said when she finished singing -. I really like your music
... But the stomach does not tell you that he does not catechins
with these songs, and that you like best good lean?

- Eat your ...
me singing ... I ate with you the joy of being me.

- Do you feed
it with me here?

Bonita substance!

- Me wants you ...

- Yes, son, love me, but please realize that I
am your mother, and I come to take care of you.

- You be Bunite.

-
Mia I pretty ... more years of San Isidro, and this misery and this
fascist!

".

No less inspired talking than singing, Almudena said, "You be the
zucena com, branca ... D'Com palm desert belt of yours ... casmines
roses and mouth you ... the evening star thine eyes.

- Mary!

I had not yet learned how beautiful I am.

- Donzella tudas, envy of you had them ... Regocijación Hiciéronte
God hands.

Loan you angels with harp.

- San Antonio blessed!

... If you wish to create all those things you must do me a favor eat what you bring. After you
have filled your belly talk, now you're not in your right mind. "

Saying, was taken out of the basket bread, tortillas, canned meat and a bottle of wine. Listing provisions,
believing that this will awaken the appetite, and as the final argument said: "If you insist
on not eating, I get angry, and not be back again to see you. Say goodbye to my mouth of roses
and my eyes as the stars of heaven ... And then you have to do everything that I command you:
Come back to Madrid, and live in your house as soon as you lived.

-
If you marry me, this yes ... If not married, no.

- Do you eat or
not eat?

Because I have not come here to waste time by lying sermons - said
Benina displaying all the energy of her accent -.

If you insist on fasting, I'm going now.

- Eat your ...

- Both.

I come to you, and have lunch together.

- Casar thou me?

- Oh really heavy man! You look like a boy.

I will be forced to give you a couple of punches ... Ha, Moor, eat and feed, which will be discussed
at the wedding. Do you think I'm going to take a husband dry in the sun, which is lagging like
a scroll? ".

With these and other reasons persuaded him, and finally stopped the
unfortunate to be squeamish food.

Beginning with Repulgue, eventually devouring voraciously.

But he did not leave his subject, and in between bites, said: "I tigo Casar ... terra Dirna mine
... I married for arreligión yours if you want ... Arreligión you marry for me, if you want
it ... Me be d'Israel ... Baptism jacieron confirencia me ladies
... Put my name Joseph Marien Almudena ...

- José María de la Almudena.

If you are a Christian, talk to me no other arreligiones bad.

- Not have more than one God, one, only he - said the blind man, possessed of mystic exaltation
-. He melecina to the brokenhearted ... He stars count number, and by them tudas name calling. Adonai
love animals and Tuda cuatropea, and the bird-wing ... Alleluyah! ...

- Well, yes, now let us sing Alleluia to not hurt us food.

- Voice of Adonai on the water, on water mochas. The voice of Adonai with forza, voice Adonai with
jermosura. Adonai's voice breaks the Alarza of Lebanon and as fixed Tsion unicorns ... The voice of
Adonai short flames, face D'desert tremble, tremble Farah Adonai Kader D'desert ... The voice of
Adonai face adoloriar deer ... In his palace that tudas Grolier. Adonai settled by the flood
... Adonai bless her with peace puelbro ...».

Even continued reciting prayers in Hebrew fifteenth century Castilian, which from memory retained children,
and respect Benina heard him, waiting to bring it ended to reality
and subject to the common life.

They talked a while about the desirability of making to the Inn of
Santa Casilda, but he seemed not willing to please extremely important,
while not giving her word to accept his black formal hand.

He tried to explain the attraction that, in the state of his mind, he exerted on the crags
and tailings in arid at that time was. Actually, he knew not explain or understand Benina but
attentive observer may well be a glimpse into this strange fondness a case of atavism or feedback
to the old instinct, seeking the solitude geographical similarity rocky in the beginning of
the life of the race ... Is this nonsense? Maybe not.

XXIX

With all his wit and mischief could not convince the old Moroccan
opportunity Madrid turning to the high.

"I do not know - he said using all the arguments - I do not know how are you going to fix you
to live in this mountain of your penance. Because you do not ask, here one has to bring you the
pea, except to me, and I, if now I have some money soon I'll be without a speck, and I will
have to order it with shame. Do you expect you here dropping your mana?

- Yes manj Cader - Almudena replied with deep conviction.

- Trust that ... But tell me one thing, son: Will there be money buried here?

- Have mocha, mocha.
- Well, son, see if you take it out, which in this case would not
waste time. But quia! I do not think me that you count potatoes or
witchcraft that you've brought your land of infidels ... No, no: there
is no salvation for the poor, and that removing treasures, or bring
it one the truckloads of precious stones, it seems to me that it is
conversation.

- If you marry me, this I find treasures mocha.

-
Well, well ... Then get to work for the investigation of where the
barrel filled money. I will come to draw with, and as true, to marry
touch. "

Saying, collected in your basket leftovers to go. Almudena
opposed it was so soon, but she insisted on retiring, the firm he
spent on all occasions "Then it would be good for me to stay I'm here,
put the sun and the air like a coat in the dryer Tanners! 
And no honest person, today or a thousand years hence, will be able to suppress a sense of
indignation and horror at the treachery committed by the military dictators of Japan, under
the very shadow of the flag of peace borne by their special envoys in our midst.

The course that Japan has followed for the past ten years in Asia has paralleled the course
of Hitler and Mussolini in Europe and in Africa.  Today, it has become far more than a parallel.
It is actual collaboration so well calculated that all the continents of the world, and all
the oceans, are now considered by the Axis strategists as one gigantic battlefield.

In 1931, ten years ago, Japan invaded Manchukuo--without warning.

In 1935, Italy invaded Ethiopia--without warning.  In 1938, Hitler occupied Austria--without
warning.

In 1939, Hitler invaded Czechoslovakia--without warning.

Later in '39, Hitler invaded Poland--without warning.

In 1940, Hitler invaded Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg--without warning.

In 1940, Italy attacked France and later Greece--without warning.

And this year, in 1941, the Axis Powers attacked Yugoslavia and Greece and they dominated the
Balkans--without warning.

In 1941, also, Hitler invaded Russia--without warning.

And now Japan has attacked Malaya and Thailand--and the United States--without warning.

It is all of one pattern.

We are now in this war.  We are all in it--all the way.  Every single man, woman and child
is a partner in the most tremendous undertaking of our American history.  We must share together
the bad news and the good news, the defeats and the victories--the changing fortunes of war.

So far, the news has been all bad.  We have suffered a serious setback in Hawaii.  Our forces
in the Philippines, which include the brave people of that Commonwealth, are taking punishment,
but are defending themselves vigorously.  The reports from Guam and Wake and Midway Islands
are still confused, but we must be prepared for the announcement that all these three outposts
have been seized.

The casualty lists of these first few days will undoubtedly be large.  I deeply feel the anxiety
of all of the families of the men in our armed forces and the relatives of people in cities
which have been bombed.  I can only give them my solemn promise that they will get news just
as quickly as possible.

This government will put its trust in the stamina of the American people, and will give the
facts to the public just as soon as two conditions have been fulfilled:  first, that the information
has been definitely and officially confirmed; and, second, that the release of the information
at the time it is received will not prove valuable to the enemy directly or indirectly.

Most earnestly I urge my countrymen to reject all rumors.  These ugly little hints of complete
disaster fly thick and fast in wartime.  They have to be examined and appraised.

As an example, I can tell you frankly that until further surveys are made, I have not sufficient
information to state the exact damage which has been done to our naval vessels at Pearl Harbor.
Admittedly the damage is serious.  But no one can say how serious, until we know how much of
this damage can be repaired and how quickly the necessary repairs can be made.

I cite as another example a statement made on Sunday night that a Japanese carrier had been
located and sunk off the Canal Zone.  And when you hear statements that are attributed to what
they call "an authoritative source," you can be reasonably sure from now on that under these
war circumstances the "authoritative source" is not any person in authority.

Many rumors and reports which we now hear originate with enemy sources.  For instance, today
the Japanese are claiming that as a result of their one action against Hawaii they hare gained
naval supremacy in the Pacific.  This is an old trick of propaganda which has been used innumerable
times by the Nazis.  The purposes of such fantastic claims are, of course, to spread fear and
confusion among us, and to goad us into revealing military information which our enemies are
desperately anxious to obtain.

Our government will not be caught in this obvious trap--and neither will the people of the
United States.

It must be remembered by each and every one of us that our free and rapid communication these
days must be greatly restricted in wartime.  It is not possible to receive full and speedy
and accurate reports front distant areas of combat.  This is particularly true where naval
operations are concerned.  For in these days of the marvels of the radio it is often impossible
for the Commanders of various units to report their activities by radio at all, for the very
simple reason that this information would become available to the enemy and would disclose
their position and their plan of defense or attack.

Of necessity there will be delays in officially confirming or denying reports of operations,
but we will not hide facts from the country if we know the facts and if the enemy will not
be aided by their disclosure.

To all newspapers and radio stations--all those who reach the eyes and ears of the American
people--I say this:  You have a most grave responsibility to the nation now and for the duration
of this war.

If you feel that your government is not disclosing enough of the truth, you have every right
to say so.  But in the absence of all the facts, as revealed by official sources, you have
no right in the ethics of patriotism to deal out unconfirmed reports in such a way as to make
people believe that they are gospel truth.

Every citizen, in every walk of life, shares this same responsibility.  The lives of our soldiers
and sailors--the whole future of this nation--depend upon the manner in which each and every
one of us fulfills his obligation to our country.

Now a word about the recent past--and the future.  A year and a half has elapsed since the
fall of France, when the whole world first realized the mechanized might which the Axis nations
had been building up for so many years.  America has used that year and a half to great advantage.
Knowing that the attack might reach us in all too short a time, we immediately began greatly
to increase our industrial strength and our capacity to meet the demands of modern warfare.

Precious months were gained by sending vast quantities of our war material to the nations of
the world still able to resist Axis aggression.  Our policy rested on the fundamental truth
that the defense of any country resisting Hitler or Japan was in the long run the defense of
our own country.  That policy has been justified. It has given us time, invaluable time, to
build our American assembly lines of production.

Assembly lines are now in operation.  Others are being rushed to completion.  A steady stream
of tanks and planes, of guns and ships and shells and equipment--that is what these eighteen
months have given us.

But it is all only a beginning of what still has to be done.  We must be set to face a long
war against crafty and powerful bandits. The attack at Pearl Harbor can be repeated at any
one of many points, points in both oceans and along both our coast lines and against all the
rest of the Hemisphere.

It will not only be a long war, it will be a hard war.  That is the basis on which we now lay
all our plans.  That is the yardstick by which we measure what we shall need and demand; money,
materials, doubled and quadrupled production--ever-increasing.  The production must be not
only for our own Army and Navy and air forces.  It must reinforce the other armies and navies
and air forces fighting the Nazis and the war lords of Japan throughout the Americas and throughout
the world.

I have been working today on the subject of production.  Your government has decided on two
broad policies.

The first is to speed up all existing production by working on a seven day week basis in every
war industry, including the production of essential raw materials.

The second policy, now being put into form, is to rush additions to the capacity of production
by building more new plants, by adding to old plants, and by using the many smaller plants
for war needs.

Over the hard road of the past months, we have at times met obstacles and difficulties, divisions
and disputes, indifference and callousness.  That is now all past--and, I am sure, forgotten.

The fact is that the country now has an organization in Washington built around men and women
who are recognized experts in their own fields.  I think the country knows that the people
who are actually responsible in each and every one of these many fields are pulling together
with a teamwork that has never before been excelled.

On the road ahead there lies hard work--grueling work--day and night, every hour and every minute.

I was about to add that ahead there lies sacrifice for all of us.

But it is not correct to use that word.  The United States does not consider it a sacrifice
to do all one can, to give one's best to our nation, when the nation is fighting for its existence
and its future life.

It is not a sacrifice for any man, old or young, to be in the Army or the Navy of the United
States.  Rather it is a privilege.

It is not a sacrifice for the industrialist or the wage earner, the farmer or the shopkeeper,
the trainman or the doctor, to pay more taxes, to buy more bonds, to forego extra profits,
to work longer or harder at the task for which he is best fitted.  Rather it is a privilege.

It is not a sacrifice to do without many things to which we are accustomed if the national
defense calls for doing without.

A review this morning leads me to the conclusion that at present we shall not have to curtail
the normal use of articles of food.  There is enough food today for all of us and enough left
over to send to those who are fighting on the same side with us.

But there will be a clear and definite shortage of metals for many kinds of civilian use, for
the very good reason that in our increased program we shall need for war purposes more than
half of that portion of the principal metals which during the past year have gone into articles
for civilian use.  Yes, we shall have to give up many things entirely.

And I am sure that the people in every part of the nation are prepared in their individual
living to win this war.  I am sure that they will cheerfully help to pay a large part of its
financial cost while it goes on.  I am sure they will cheerfully give up those material things
that they are asked to give up.

And I am sure that they will retain all those great spiritual things without which we cannot
win through.

I repeat that the United States can accept no result save victory, final and complete.  Not
only must the shame of Japanese treachery be wiped out, but the sources of international brutality,
wherever they exist, must be absolutely and finally broken.

In my message to the Congress yesterday I said that we "will make very certain that this form
of treachery shall never again endanger us."  In order to achieve that certainty, we must begin
the great task that is before us by abandoning once and for all the illusion that we can ever
again isolate ourselves from the rest of humanity.

In these past few years--and, most violently, in the past three days--we have learned a terrible
lesson.

It is our obligation to our dead--it is our sacred obligation to their children and to our
children--that we must never forget what we have learned.

And what we have learned is this:

There is no such thing as security for any nation--or any individual--in a world ruled by the
principles of gangsterism.

There is no such thing as impregnable defense against powerful aggressors who sneak up in the
dark and strike without warning.

We have learned that our ocean-girt hemisphere is not immune from severe attack--that we cannot
measure our safety in terms of miles on any map any more.

We may acknowledge that our enemies have performed a brilliant feat of deception, perfectly
timed and executed with great skill.  It was a thoroughly dishonorable deed, but we must face
the fact that modern warfare as conducted in the Nazi manner is a dirty business. We don't
like it--we didn't want to get in it--but we are in it and we're going to fight it with everything
we've got.

I do not think any American has any doubt of our ability to administer proper punishment to
the perpetrators of these crimes.

Your government knows that for weeks Germany has been telling Japan that if Japan did not attack
the United States, Japan would not share in dividing the spoils with Germany when peace came.
She was promised by Germany that if she came in she would receive the complete and perpetual
control of the whole of the Pacific area-- and that means not only the Ear East, but also all
of the Islands in the Pacific, and also a stranglehold on the west coast of North, Central
and South America.

We know also that Germany and Japan are conducting their military and naval operations in accordance
with a joint plan.  That plan considers all peoples and nations which are not helping the Axis
powers as common enemies of each and every one of the Axis powers.

That is their simple and obvious grand strategy.  And that is why the American people must
realize that it can be matched only with similar grand strategy.  We must realize for example
that Japanese successes against the United States in the Pacific are helpful to German operations
in Libya; that any German success against the Caucasus is inevitably an assistance to Japan
in her operations against the Dutch East Indies; that a German attack against Algiers or Morocco
opens the way to a German attack against South America and the Canal.

On the other side of the picture, we must learn also to know that guerrilla warfare against
the Germans in, let us say Serbia or Norway, helps us; that a successful Russian offensive
against the Germans helps us; and that British successes on land or sea in any part of the
world strengthen our hands.

Remember always that Germany and Italy, regardless of any formal declaration of war, consider
themselves at war with the United States at this moment just as much as they consider themselves
at war with Britain or Russia.  And Germany puts all the other Republics of the Americas into
the same category of enemies.  The people of our sister Republics of this Hemisphere can be
honored by that fact.

The true goal we seek is far above and beyond the ugly field of battle.  When we resort to
force, as now we must, we are determined that this force shall be directed toward ultimate
good as well as against immediate evil.  We Americans are not destroyers--we are builders.

We are now in the midst of a war, not for conquest, not for vengeance, but for a world in which
this nation, and all that this nation represents, will be safe for our children.  We expect
to eliminate the danger from Japan, but it would serve us ill if we accomplished that and found
that the rest of the world was dominated by Hitler and Mussolini.

So we are going to win the war and we are going to win the peace that follows.

And in the difficult hours of this day--through dark days that may be yet to come--we will
know that the vast majority of the members of the human race are on our side.  Many of them
are fighting with us.  All of them are praying for us.  But, in representing our cause, we
represent theirs as well--our hope and their hope for liberty under God.

February 23, 1942.

My Fellow Americans:

Washington's Birthday is a most appropriate occasion for us to talk with each other about things
as they are today and things as we know they shall be in the future.

For eight years, General Washington and his Continental Army were faced continually with formidable
odds and recurring defeats. Supplies and equipment were lacking.  In a sense, every winter
was a Valley Forge.  Throughout the thirteen states there existed fifth columnists--and selfish
men, jealous men, fearful men, who proclaimed that Washington's cause was hopeless, and that
he should ask for a negotiated peace.

Washington's conduct in those hard times has provided the model for all Americans ever since--a
model of moral stamina.  He held to his course, as it had been charted in the Declaration of
Independence. He and the brave men who served with him knew that no man's life or fortune was
secure without freedom and free institutions.

The present great struggle has taught us increasingly that freedom of person and security of
property anywhere in the world depend upon the security of the rights and obligations of liberty
and justice everywhere in the world.

This war is a new kind of war.  It is different from all other wars of the past, not only in
its methods and weapons but also in its geography.  It is warfare in terms of every continent,
every island, every sea, every air lane in the world.

That is the reason why I have asked you to take out and spread before you a map of the whole
earth, and to follow with me in the references which I shall make to the world-encircling battle
lines of this war.  Many questions will, I fear, remain unanswered tonight; but I know you
will realize that I cannot cover everything in any one short report to the people.

The broad oceans which have been heralded in the past as our protection from attack have become
endless battlefields on which we are constantly being challenged by our enemies.

We must all understand and face the hard fact that our job now is to fight at distances which
extend all the way around the globe.

We fight at these vast distances because that is where our enemies are.  Until our flow of
supplies gives us clear superiority we must keep on striking our enemies wherever and whenever
we can meet them, even if, for a while, we have to yield ground.  Actually, though, we are
taking a heavy toll of the enemy every day that goes by.

We must fight at these vast distances to protect our supply lines and our lines of communication
with our allies--protect these lines from the enemies who are bending every ounce of their
strength, striving against time, to cut them.  The object of the Nazis and the Japanese is
to separate the United States, Britain, China and Russia, and to isolate them one from another,
so that each will be surrounded and cut off from sources of supplies and reinforcements. It
is the old familiar Axis policy of "divide and conquer."

There are those who still think, however, in terms of the days of sailing-ships.  They advise
us to pull our warships and our planes and our merchant ships into our own home waters and
concentrate solely on last ditch defense.  But let me illustrate what would happen if we followed
such foolish advice.

Look at your map.  Look at the vast area of China, with its millions of fighting men.  Look
at the vast area of Russia, with its powerful armies and proven military might.  Look at the
British Isles, Australia, New Zealand, the Dutch Indies, India, the Near East and the Continent
of Africa, with their resources of raw materials, and of peoples determined to resist Axis
domination.  Look too at North America, Central America and South America.

It is obvious what would happen if all of these great reservoirs of power were cut off from
each other either by enemy action or by self-imposed isolation:

First, in such a case, we could no longer send aid of any kind to China--to the brave people
who, for nearly five years, have withstood Japanese assault, destroyed hundreds of thousands
of Japanese soldiers and vast quantities of Japanese war munitions.  It is essential that we
help China in her magnificent defense and in her inevitable counteroffensive--for that is one
important element in the ultimate defeat of Japan.

Second, if we lost communication with the southwest Pacific, all of that area, including Australia
and New Zealand and the Dutch Indies, would fall under Japanese domination.  Japan in such
a case could release great numbers of ships and men to launch attacks on a large scale against
the coasts of the Western Hemisphere--South America and Central America, and North America--including
Alaska. At the same time, she could immediately extend her conquests in the other direction
toward India, and through the Indian Ocean to Africa, to the Near East, and try to join forces
with Germany and Italy.

Third, if we were to stop sending munitions to the British and the Russians in the Mediterranean,
in the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea, we would be helping the Nazis to overrun Turkey, Syria,
Iraq, Persia, Egypt and the Suez Canal, the whole coast of North Africa itself, and with that
inevitably the whole coast of West Africa-- putting Germany within easy striking distance of
South America-- fifteen hundred miles away.

Fourth, if by such a fatuous policy we ceased to protect the North Atlantic supply line to
Britain and to Russia, we would help to cripple the splendid counter-offensive by Russia against
the Nazis, and we would help to deprive Britain of essential food supplies and munitions.

Those Americans who believed that we could live under the illusion of isolationism wanted the
American eagle to imitate the tactics of the ostrich.  Now, many of those same people, afraid
that we may be sticking our necks out, want our national bird to be turned into a turtle. 
But we prefer to retain the eagle as it is--flying high and striking hard.

I know that I speak for the mass of the American people when I say that we reject the turtle
policy and will continue increasingly the policy of carrying the war to the enemy in distant
lands and distant waters--as far away as possible from our own home grounds.

There are four main lines of communication now being travelled by our ships:  the North Atlantic,
the South Atlantic, the Indian Ocean and the South Pacific.  These routes are not one-way streets,
for the ships that carry our troops and munitions outbound bring back essential raw materials
which we require for our own use.

The maintenance of these vital lines is a very tough job.  It is a job which requires tremendous
daring, tremendous resourcefulness, and, above all, tremendous production of planes and tanks
and guns and also of the ships to carry them.  And I speak again for the American people when
I say that we can and will do that job.

The defense of the world-wide lines of communication demands relatively safe use by us of the
sea and of the air along the various routes; and this, in turn, depends upon control by the
United Nations of many strategic bases along those routes.

Control of the air involves the simultaneous use of two types of planes--first, the long-range
heavy bomber; and, second, the light bombers, dive bombers, torpedo planes, and short-range
pursuit planes, all of which are essential to the protection of the bases and of the bombers
themselves.

Heavy bombers can fly under their own power from here to the southwest Pacific, but the smaller
planes cannot.  Therefore, these lighter planes have to be packed in crates and sent on board
cargo ships.  Look at your map again; and you will see that the route is long--and at many
places perilous--either across the South Atlantic all the way around South Africa and the Cape
of Good Hope, or from California to the East Indies direct.  A vessel can make a round trip
by either route in about four months, or only three round trips in a whole year.

In spite of the length, and in spite of the difficulties of this transportation, I can tell
you that in two and a half months we already have a large number of bombers and pursuit planes,
manned by American pilots and crews, which are now in daily contact with the enemy in the Southwest
Pacific.  And thousands of American troops are today in that area engaged in operations not
only in the air but on the ground as well.

In this battle area, Japan has had an obvious initial advantage. For she could fly even her
short-range planes to the points of attack by using many stepping stones open to her--bases
in a multitude of Pacific islands and also bases on the China coast, Indo-China coast, and
in Thailand and Malaya coasts.  Japanese troop transports could go south from Japan and from
China through the narrow China Sea, which can be protected by Japanese planes throughout its
whole length.

I ask you to look at your maps again, particularly at that portion of the Pacific Ocean lying
west of Hawaii.  Before this war even started, the Philippine Islands were already surrounded
on three sides by Japanese power.  On the west, the China side, the Japanese were in possession
of the coast of China and the coast of Indo-China which had been yielded to them by the Vichy
French.  On the North are the islands of Japan themselves, reaching down almost to northern
Luzon.  On the east are the Mandated Islands--which Japan had occupied exclusively, and had
fortified in absolute violation of her written word.

The islands that lie between Hawaii and the Philippines--these islands, hundreds of them, appear
only as small dots on most maps. But they cover a large strategic area.  Guam lies in the middle
of them--a lone outpost which we have never fortified.

Under the Washington Treaty of 1921 we had solemnly agreed not to add to the fortification
of the Philippines.  We had no safe naval bases there, so we could not use the islands for
extensive naval operations.

Immediately after this war started, the Japanese forces moved down on either side of the Philippines
to numerous points south of them--thereby completely encircling the Philippines from north,
south, east and west.

It is that complete encirclement, with control of the air by Japanese land-based aircraft,
which has prevented us from sending substantial reinforcements of men and material to the gallant
defenders of the Philippines.  For forty years it has always been our strategy--a strategy
born of necessity--that in the event of a full-scale attack on the Islands by Japan, we should
fight a delaying action, attempting to retire slowly into Bataan Peninsula and Corregidor.

We knew that the war as a whole would have to be fought and won by a process of attrition against
Japan itself.  We knew all along that, with our greater resources, we could ultimately out-build
Japan and ultimately overwhelm her on sea, and on land and in the air.  We knew that, to obtain
our objective, many varieties of operations would be necessary in areas other than the Philippines.

Now nothing that has occurred in the past two months has caused us to revise this basic strategy
of necessity--except that the defense put up by General MacArthur has magnificently exceeded
the previous estimates of endurance, and he and his men are gaining eternal glory therefore.

MacArthur's army of Filipinos and Americans, and the forces of the United Nations in China,
in Burma and the Netherlands East Indies, are all together fulfilling the same essential task.
They are making Japan pay an increasingly terrible price for her ambitious attempts to seize
control of the whole Asiatic world.  Every Japanese transport sunk off Java is one less transport
that they can use to carry reinforcements to their army opposing General MacArthur in Luzon.

It has been said that Japanese gains in the Philippines were made possible only by the success
of their surprise attack on Pearl Harbor.  I tell you that this is not so.

Even if the attack had not been made your map will show that it would have been a hopeless
operation for us to send the Fleet to the Philippines through thousands of miles of ocean,
while all those island bases were under the sole control of the Japanese.

The consequences of the attack on Pearl Harbor--serious as they were--have been wildly exaggerated
in other ways.  And these exaggerations come originally from Axis propagandists; but they have
been repeated, I regret to say, by Americans in and out of public life.

You and I have the utmost contempt for Americans who, since Pearl Harbor, have whispered or
announced "off the record" that there was no longer any Pacific Fleet--that the Fleet was all
sunk or destroyed on December 7th--that more than a thousand of our planes were destroyed on
the ground.  They have suggested slyly that the government has withheld the truth about casualties--that
eleven or twelve thousand men were killed at Pearl Harbor instead of the figures as officially
announced.  They have even served the enemy propagandists by spreading the incredible story
that ship-loads of bodies of our honored American dead were about to arrive in New York harbor
to be put into a common grave.

Almost every Axis broadcast--Berlin, Rome, Tokyo--directly quotes Americans who, by speech
or in the press, make damnable misstatements such as these.

The American people realize that in many cases details of military operations cannot be disclosed
until we are absolutely certain that the announcement will not give to the enemy military information
which he does not already possess.

Your government has unmistakable confidence in your ability to hear the worst, without flinching
or losing heart.  You must, in turn, have complete confidence that your government is keeping
nothing from you except information that will help the enemy in his attempt to destroy us.
In a democracy there is always a solemn pact of truth between government and the people, but
there must also always be a full use of discretion, and that word "discretion" applies to the
critics of government as well.

This is war.  The American people want to know, and will be told, the general trend of how
the war is going.  But they do not wish to help the enemy any more than our fighting forces
do, and they will pay little attention to the rumor-mongers and the poison peddlers in our midst.

To pass from the realm of rumor and poison to the field of facts: the number of our officers
and men killed in the attack on Pearl Harbor on December seventh was 2,340, and the number
wounded was 940.  Of all of the combatant ships based on Pearl Harbor-- battleships, heavy
cruisers, light cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers and submarines--only three are permanently
put out of commission.

Very many of the ships of the Pacific Fleet were not even in Pearl Harbor.  Some of those that
were there were hit very slightly, and others that were damaged have either rejoined the fleet
by now or are still undergoing repairs.  And when those repairs are completed, the ships will
be more efficient fighting machines than they were before.

The report that we lost more than a thousand planes at Pearl Harbor is as baseless as the other
weird rumors.  The Japanese do not know just how many planes they destroyed that day, and I
am not going to tell them.  But I can say that to date--and including Pearl Harbor-- we have
destroyed considerably more Japanese planes than they have destroyed of ours.

We have most certainly suffered losses--from Hitler's U-Boats in the Atlantic as well as from
the Japanese in the Pacific--and we shall suffer more of them before the turn of the tide.
But, speaking for the United States of America, let me say once and for all to the people of
the world:  We Americans have been compelled to yield ground, but we will regain it.  We and
the other United Nations are committed to the destruction of the militarism of Japan and Germany.
We are daily increasing our strength.  Soon, we and not our enemies, will have the offensive;
we, not they, will win the final battles; and we, not they, will make the final peace.

Conquered nations in Europe know what the yoke of the Nazis is like.  And the people of Korea
and of Manchuria know in their flesh the harsh despotism of Japan.  All of the people of Asia
know that if there is to be an honorable and decent future for any of them or any of us, that
future depends on victory by the United Nations over the forces of Axis enslavement.

If a just and durable peace is to be attained, or even if all of us are merely to save our
own skins, there is one thought for us here at home to keep uppermost--the fulfillment of our
special task of production.

Germany, Italy and Japan are very close to their maximum output of planes, guns, tanks and
ships.  The United Nations are not-- especially the United States of America.

Our first job then is to build up production--uninterrupted production--so that the United
Nations can maintain control of the seas and attain control of the air--not merely a slight
superiority, but an overwhelming superiority.

On January 6th of this year, I set certain definite goals of production for airplanes, tanks,
guns and ships.  The Axis propagandists called them fantastic.  Tonight, nearly two months
later, and after a careful survey of progress by Donald Nelson and others charged with responsibility
for our production, I can tell you that those goals will be attained.

In every part of the country, experts in production and the men and women at work in the plants
are giving loyal service.  With few exceptions, labor, capital and farming realize that this
is no time either to make undue profits or to gain special advantages, one over the other.

We are calling for new plants and additions--additions to old plants.  We are calling for plant
conversion to war needs.  We are seeking more men and more women to run them.  We are working
longer hours.  We are coming to realize that one extra plane or extra tank or extra gun or
extra ship completed tomorrow may, in a few months, turn the tide on some distant battlefield;
it may make the difference between life and death for some of our own fighting men. We know
now that if we lose this war it will be generations or even centuries before our conception
of democracy can live again.  And we can lose this war only if use slow up our effort or if
we waste our ammunition sniping at each other.

Here are three high purposes for every American:

1.  We shall not stop work for a single day.  If any dispute arises we shall keep on working
while the dispute is solved by mediation, or conciliation or arbitration--until the war is won.

2.  We shall not demand special gains or special privileges or special advantages for any one
group or occupation.

3.  We shall give up conveniences and modify the routine of our lives if our country asks us
to do so.  We will do it cheerfully, remembering that the common enemy seeks to destroy every
home and every freedom in every part of our land.

This generation of Americans has come to realize, with a present and personal realization,
that there is something larger and more important than the life of any individual or of any
individual group--something for which a man will sacrifice, and gladly sacrifice, not only
his pleasures, not only his goods, not only his associations with those he loves, but his life
itself.  In time of crisis when the future is in the balance, we come to understand, with full
recognition and devotion, what this nation is and what we owe to it.

The Axis propagandists have tried in various evil ways to destroy our determination and our
morale.  Failing in that, they are now trying to destroy our confidence in our own allies.
They say that the British are finished--that the Russians and the Chinese are about to quit.
Patriotic and sensible Americans will reject these absurdities.  And instead of listening to
any of this crude propaganda, they will recall some of the things that Nazis and Japanese have
said and are still saying about us.

Ever since this nation became the arsenal of democracy--ever since enactment of Lend-Lease--there
has been one persistent theme through all Axis propaganda.

This theme has been that Americans are admittedly rich, that Americans have considerable industrial
power--but that Americans are soft and decadent, that they cannot and will not unite and work
and fight.

From Berlin, Rome and Tokyo we have been described as a nation of weaklings--"playboys"--who
would hire British soldiers, or Russian soldiers, or Chinese soldiers to do our fighting for us.

Let them repeat that now!

Let them tell that to General MacArthur and his men.

Let them tell that to the sailors who today are hitting hard in the far waters of the Pacific.

Let them tell that to the boys in the Flying Fortresses.

Let them tell that to the Marines!

The United Nations constitute an association of independent peoples of equal dignity and equal
importance. Just finished his extraordinary work and not have to go at night the
Ministry. Meanwhile not go tomorrow, which is Sunday. Tomorrow we will lead. I'll get it. Do you
accommodate?

- I have no impatience or eagerness to have fun - said
Ines -.

I can well understand Braulio does not want to go alone. We as girls both! ... You seem almost
more younger than me. We are exposed to a thousand frights ... to persecute us ... to disrespect
us ... as the rake the other night.

- You exaggerate ... Count Alhedín not disrespected us. The poor followed us like a fool ... had its
temptations to speak, but after he dared not, and did well. It would have been tomfoolery unforgivable
in person so many bells and run. The truth is that too excited to show off so disgusted, scornful
and invulnerable. My daughter, you gave sight.

- Sister - Ines replied with great simplicity and naturalness - do not try to flatter me esteem.
I do not believe. In any case it was you, not I, who Condesito arrow, although jokes leaving
us, which we believe is that neither you nor I arrows. Excited their curiosity so as no one knows us.
As a slacker, he wanted to follow us to pass the time. Such Once the cause of which we follow
for us was not flattering, but offensive, perhaps, the see us alone and so young, he was of
us an idea ...

- You can ... Perhaps we misjudged the top, but do not hesitate, as risky trial and the passenger
was unfavorable. It does not follow who was not expected, as we continued the count. Those hesitations,
those utterly, that shy in person so carefree and bold, born of respect, not contempt. In addition,
a man of the world, understood as he is, no could fall but for a brief moment in such an absurd
hallucination. Look in that mirror - and Beatriz noted one that was hung in front, decorating
the room - and it would be necessary be stupid not to understand
who you are, to think badly of you to see that face.

Doña Beatriz gave it to his sister kisses a dozen of sound, rising
from his seat and embracing.

- How good and how crazy you are! -
Ines said.

Then he added:

- Come, I wish indeed that Count followed us with enthusiasm, but
enthusiasm why what had to be me, not you, who inspired him?

Do you think the Count guessed that you're married?

- Undoubtedly. I could not believe otherwise, seeing me alone with you and keep us women honored.

-
But I have heard that the libertines serve more to married women
and unmarried women - continued Inesita with the terrible frankness
of his childlike innocence.

- It's not a rule.

I, however, to concede that it is.

I still affirm that there is no rule without exception and in this
case, the Count has pursued the spinster.

- And why do you affirm?

-
Because I've seen.

- I saw nothing, for not looking.

- Mirases not
approve.

That modesty, that indifference you, stung the Count.

If you reach look at him you would have followed, but more daring, with less effort.

- Then you, you looked, as you observed so much, how did you not be mean concept of you?

- For married women, when we are not really dumb, we use many styles to look at, and I I looked
as it should.

Inesita opened his eyes and mouth, and shocked, to hear that there were several styles to watch.

Doña
Beatriz, not abandon his idea that the innocence of his sister gave him more money, he began
to think that if this candor bordering on blindness, could harm their plans. Something seemed desirable
and when not to unleash the band, loosen it a bit. It was time to start to Inesita in the simplest
mysteries of this rogue world.

Moved by this thought, Beatriz said:

- Yes, my daughter, there are many styles to watch.

- Okay, sister, and I understand it - said Ines -. Although I'm pretty stupid and ignorant all,
because the people I've spent my life sewing, playing with dolls,
taking care our old tutor and fixing the small altar, where San Antonio
was the Christ Child in the arms, while you were reading, studies
and conversations, still reaches me that look in different ways: for
example, with affection and indifference.

- Yes.

- I do not understand
is why the wives know that, and do not know why single women.

- For
single women should not know, because if they do, they should pretend
to ignore it, and because they lose a lot if you look through art,
not to be so wonderful to look at art that even the most cunning you
note.

- And tell me, sister, do not it could be that, without reflection,
and by virtue of that instinct, more and less fallible inspired reflection,
looked silly sometimes a single as well or better married to the most
skilled?

- Everything is possible.

Ingenuity can do everything.

I, however, to tell you the three major pitfalls they may encounter
if you try to look at men.

First obstacle: that you be the eyes behind those who look, which is surrender, surrender and
feet tied and hands, making love to warm you if you breathe in, or profane and ridicule and mock
Your love if you do not apply.

Second obstacle: that look like shyness or distrust amazed and surly, and risk a silly pass
soda or not so. And the third obstacle, which possesses look at the science and other sciences
that presuppose the look, failed to conceal and ensure this wisdom,
and you accused and zahieran of lizard, of Lycurgus, the brash and
free and sick known for married.

- I think, Beatrice, in order to
avoid these pitfalls it is best to let go of the impulse.

- Oh, my
daughter!

No phrase meaningless. According Braulio, who read many tomes in leisure, at least as mankind has
twelve thousand years of civilization. Where will become of the legitimate and natural pure
impulse, after the fuss of beliefs, laws, doctrines, customs, habits, fashions and social conventions?
Take a Greyhound to your natural momentum. Become a savage, or seek him among the wild if you
have it. In addition, the natural impulse, the impulse of mere nature, is sinful and wrong. I miss
a girl, so good Christian as you are, be wary of natural impulse. Well good nature was then original
sin, for us to trust it.

- Women, I was wrong, I explained wrong.

What I meant was that it should get carried away, to look like for
all of my Christian feelings, that my natural impulse, as amended
and refined by the moral and religious education, thank God, I have
received.

- But look here, innocent!

What brings the doctrine of the Father Ripalda on these interesting details? Not anticipated
and left you in the dark. Our tutor, in the long sermons to us missed, never touched this point.
How did they calculate the Father and our guardian Ripalda were going to stroll in the Buen
Retiro, and you would be chased by a Condesito, handsome, elegant, noble, with car and drives more
than 15,000 income? In this complicated case involving thousand elements alien to the moral theology.
And what is the car, the elegance, the county, income of 15,000, the concerts of the Buen
Retiro and countless other circumstances, nothing have to do with nature are on the summit of it,
can and should be regarded as supernatural, because they are added
and superimposed on the natural and the culture of the century.

Laughter and good humor with which Dona Beatriz said all this a bit
puzzled Inesita.

Also did not know whether to cast it as a joke or replicate seriously. Resolvióse the end of the
second, and said:

- Sister, whether natural or supernatural circumstances, persist in believing safer any device
and study this I call my natural impulse. Sincerity and honesty is always what counts brings up the
practical and useful. I deny that science or the art of looking. For anything you need. A girl
must look honest and modest every lover of good breeding and advise, not to appear rude, in
general affect he feels or should feel for all others, and with due caution, that the gallant not misinterpret
his benevolence and the promise happy.

If you pass the handsome heartthrob indifferent a handsome lover, and love inspire the girl the
convenient way of looking at who you love, without you drop in to learn it by art.

- Hey, Ines - "Dona Beatriz -, no joke I'm talking about, but with great seriousness in the
background. You'd be right in what you say if there were no transition period between being
in love and not to be. You yourself have said. If the suitor goes from indifferent to love. Well,
for this step are the rules and art. Who is unrequited loves and really, look at him as want.
Love itself will teach you how to look at him but my daughter, is not that; this is the one who
you love and yet still loves you.

- A look at like that neighbor it.

- There's your mistake, Ines. You put no middle ground between indifference and love. That jump
itself is unnatural, dangerous and improbable. Nobody goes, fortunately, indifference to love
without degrees, procedures and terms means. For not so! Daughter, love is little Apoc. From
indifference, or rather, from the general affection to all others at that unique feeling called
love, there is a sliding scale that goes up point point and that is the period of flirtation.
Without such a flirt, without leaving perched grades or steps of
the aforementioned scale, no one ever comes to the temple of the true
love, no glory reaches its favor gift.

- How is that?

"So I may not love or be loved without flirting never before?

-
I do not deny the possibility, but would be difficult, extraordinary.

In novels, poetry only, see, for example, a man who sees passing in the street to a lady, and
pataplum ... suddenly ... català died of love for her. She also looks ... and goodbye rest
and trial, not knowing if a rogue or a good man, a fool or a wise, rich or poor, and we love. The
rationale is this: the rational is that people are treated, talk, know, are deemed, fans go to
each other, until after you love. All this period is what I call flirting. See you if the flirting
is necessary and useful. No love it there. If not please with a face that guests dismiss, ignore
anyone, no look at anyone but as a neighbor while not feel love, and love or ever will come to
your soul or you infuse it with another human soul ever.

Flirting is thus a rite, a cult a prayer, an evocation of love to
come.

I say all this to stop you prudery and go be something flirty. And I wish that you are with distinction
and smoothness without impeachment of any kind, with the composure and modesty required, and keeping
that wonderful candor, that aspect of pure innocence that God has placed in your gesture and
in your face, so I recommend the divine art.

- And with this art, what will I earn?

- Earn you love. We go to a particular case. Let's talk about the other night Condesito. I know
that does not love him. Thanks be to God that it has not done so flammable that you put to
love a man only to see him pass. There is no presumption that he is hopelessly love you. Neither
do men fall in love suddenly. What is likely, almost certainly, Condesito is that I found beautiful,
graceful and elegant, have imagined that you are good and you are well educated, in which no mistakes,
and I admire and attracted to you curious sympathy and other sinful desires and thoughts. I
grant, moreover, that the young Count, with its arrogance, which is great, is promised triumphs
and victories that make you favor.

Well, this is the foundation of a flirt.

Care not to frighten those sympathies by putting springs stick side; matter curb undue expectations
and daring is necessary to tame with due respect at all irreverent purpose, and should finally
attract the Condesito, to see if he loves you and you love him.

- But I do not love him.

- I know you dont love him. Did not I say? He loves you or not. But nobody ever gonna love
you no you love anyone if you keep going? How did you go to if you love as if it were bony
Croaker?

Inesita almost felt defeated. Her sister continued to make very wise and deep reflection, the
girl came to hallucinate and imagine that flirtation, within certain
limits, was a duty, which was missing.

Inesita promised, then follow the advice of her sister far, no violence,
he could, and be a little flirty, with dignity and would learn the
art.

Doña Beatriz certainly gave the following night at the Buen Retiro,
would find the little Count, he would be persecuted and have occasion
to show his ability Inesita, untested for flirtation.

According to Beatriz, all paper Inesita the next night was just saying with the eyes, lazy style
and clear, however, with such art that seem thoughtless phrase and spontaneous, with impeccable
purity and simplicity of intention and without promising anything
to pass friend: "Me you nice, although I deplore it as much as you
are a fool.

I glad to treat you, but for that you want it to be less vain and more restrained, and are then
presented as the good society requires and so it does not crash. "

Inesita argued that his eyes could not reel off as long rant. Doña Beatriz, On the contrary,
claimed that with eyes said it all without difficulty.

This question was, when knocked Don Braulio, and then entered the room, interrupting the two
sisters.

The man was as he had described the Earl of Alhedín: skinny, bald, small body not pretty, and
though he was only forty-five, seemed to have ten more, because the
work, care and trouble he had aged.

He was dressed in clean and simple. His dark face was wonderful expression of kindness and
intelligence.

His black eyes, only beautiful thing in him, every eye sparkled with bright light and sharp. His
cheeks sunken cheeks were furrowed with wrinkles, but in your mouth, rather large to small,
had strength and spirit, and his thin lips were folded gracefully, providing entertainment to all appearance
and showing two rows of white teeth, healthy and well placed. Don's nose Braulio, though not deformed,
was one if not acaballo or parrot's beak.

Don Braulio had been very tired, and the few words she spoke to women felt all retiring to bed.

The
first one left the room was Dona Beatriz.

Don Braulio was a moment alone with Ines. There came to her and said quietly:

- Agnes, I have to comply with a commission that you have given me.

Take this letter, save and read it to stop and rest. Which requires
written not talk to anyone about the letter, but me if you want.

So your sister has to be a secret. Do you understand? There are also another rare condition.
The answer you give no support to you within a month and begs the same time does not slow to
give it more than four months.

Don Braulio, that said, put the letter in the hands of Ines, and went
where his wife had gone, without waiting to read the letter Inesita
or do him any questions about it.

Seemed Don Braulio also wanted Inesita meditate calmly, before speaking of the important business
letter undoubtedly was.

V

Just looked Inesita was alone in the address of the card, and without emotion, almost a curiosity,
at least perceptible, would open it and read it, when he appeared on the scene a new character,
did the girl keep it rushed the letter in his pocket.

This new character was the mistress Teresa. Love does not ever called him because he had been
breeding but because he had been housekeeper of the parish priest. Was already closer to the
sixties of fifty years, and had looked with great care and affection of Beatrice and Agnes
from they had been orphaned. A much loved them both, but as it had looked Inesita from more
child, and as Inesita was single, had greater familiarity with it
confidence.

And, above all, it shall not be imperiled by the handful of noisy traitors--betrayers of America,
betrayers of Christianity itself-- would-be dictators who in their hearts and souls have yielded
to Hitlerism and would have this Republic do likewise.

I shall use all of the executive power that I have to carry out the policy laid down.  If it
becomes necessary to ask for any additional legislation in order to attain our objective of
preventing a spiral in the cost of living, I shall do so.

I know the American farmer, the American workman, and the American businessman.  I know that
they will gladly embrace this economy and equality of sacrifice, satisfied that it is necessary
for the most vital and compelling motive in all their lives--winning through to victory.

Never in the memory of man has there been a war in which the courage, the endurance and the
loyalty of civilians played so vital a part.

Many thousands of civilians all over the world have been and are being killed or maimed by
enemy action.  Indeed, it was the fortitude of the common people of Britain under fire which
enabled that island to stand and prevented Hitler from winning the war in 1940.  The ruins
of London and Coventry and other cities are today the proudest monuments to British heroism.

Our own American civilian population is now relatively safe from such disasters.  And, to an
ever-increasing extent, our soldiers, sailors and marines are fighting with great bravery and
great skill on far distant fronts to make sure that we shall remain safe.

I should like to tell you one or two stories about the men we have in our armed forces:

There is, for example, Dr. Corydon M. Wassell.  He was a missionary, well known for his good
works in China.  He is a simple, modest, retiring man, nearly sixty years old, but he entered
the service of his country and was commissioned a Lieutenant Commander in the Navy.

Dr.  Wassell was assigned to duty in Java caring for wounded officers and men of the cruisers
HOUSTON and MARBLEHEAD which had been in heavy action in the Java seas.

When the Japanese advanced across the island, it was decided to evacuate as many as possible
of the wounded to Australia.  But about twelve of the men were so badly wounded that they could
not be moved.  Dr. Wassell remained with these men, knowing that he would be captured by the
enemy.  But he decided to make a last desperate attempt to get the men out of Java.  He asked
each of them if he wished to take the chance, and every one agreed.

He first had to get the twelve men to the sea coast--fifty miles away.  To do this, he had
to improvise stretchers for the hazardous journey.  The men were suffering severely, but Dr.
Wassell kept them alive by his skill, and inspired them by his own courage.

And as the official report said, Dr. Wassell was "almost like a Christ-like shepherd devoted
to his flock."

On the sea coast, he embarked the men on a little Dutch ship.  They were bombed, they were
machine-gunned by waves of Japanese planes. Dr.  Wassell took virtual command of the ship,
and by great skill avoided destruction, hiding in little bays and little inlets.

A few days later, Dr. Wassell and his small flock of wounded men reached Australia safely.

And today Dr. Wassell wears the Navy Cross.

Another story concerns a ship, a ship rather than an individual man.

You may remember the tragic sinking of the submarine, the U.S.S. SQUALUS off the New England
coast in the summer of 1939.  Some of the crew were lost, but others were saved by the speed
and the efficiency of the surface rescue crews.  The SQUALUS itself was tediously raised from
the bottom of the sea.

She was repaired and put back into commission, and eventually she sailed again under a new
name, the U.S.S.  SAILFISH.  Today, she is a potent and effective unit of our submarine fleet
in the Southwest Pacific.

The SAILFISH has covered many thousands of miles in operations in those waters.

She has sunk a Japanese destroyer.

She has torpedoed a Japanese cruiser.

She has made torpedo hits--two of them--on a Japanese aircraft carrier.

Three of the enlisted men of our Navy who went down with the SQUALUS in 1939 and were rescued,
are today serving on the same ship, the U.S.S.  SAILFISH, in this war.

It seems to me that it is heartening to know that the SQUALUS, once given up as lost, rose
from the depths to fight for our country in time of peril.

One more story, that I heard only this morning:

This is a story of one of our Army Flying Fortresses operating in the Western Pacific.  The
pilot of this plane is a modest young man, proud of his crew for one of the toughest fights
a bomber has yet experienced.

The bomber departed from its base, as part or a flight of five bombers, to attack Japanese
transports that were landing troops against us in the Philippines.  When they had gone about
halfway to their destination, one of the motors of this bomber went out of commission.  The
young pilot lost contact with the other bombers. The crew, however, got the motor working,
got it going again and the plane proceeded on its mission alone.

By the time it arrived at its target the other four Flying Fortresses had already passed over,
had dropped their bombs, and had stirred up the hornets' nest of Japanese "Zero" planes. Eighteen
of these "Zero" fighters attacked our one Flying Fortress. Despite this mass attack, our plane
proceeded on its mission, and dropped all of its bombs on six Japanese transports which were
lined up along the docks.

As it turned back on its homeward journey a running fight between the bomber and the eighteen
Japanese pursuit planes continued for 75 miles.  Four pursuit planes of the Japs attacked simultaneously
at each side.  Four were shot down with the side guns.  During this fight, the bomber's radio
operator was killed, the engineer's right hand was shot off, and one gunner was crippled, leaving
only one man available to operate both side guns.  Although wounded in one hand, this gunner
alternately manned both side guns, bringing down three more Japanese "Zero" planes.  While
this was going on, one engine on the American bomber was shot out, one gas tank was hit, the
radio was shot off, and the oxygen system was entirely destroyed.  Out of eleven control cables
all but four were shot away.  The rear landing wheel was blown off entirely, and the two front
wheels were both shot flat.

The fight continued until the remaining Japanese pursuit ships exhausted their ammunition and
turned back.  With two engines gone and the plane practically out of control, the American
bomber returned to its base after dark and made an emergency landing.  The mission had been
accomplished.

The name of that pilot is Captain Hewitt T. Wheless, of the United States Army.  He comes from
a place called Menard, Texas--with a population 2,375.  He has been awarded the Distinguished
Service Cross.  And I hope that he is listening.

These stories I have told you are not exceptional.  They are typical examples of individual
heroism and skill.

As we here at home contemplate our own duties, our own responsibilities, let us think and think
hard of the example which is being set for us by our fighting men.

Our soldiers and sailors are members of well disciplined units.  But they are still and forever
individuals--free individuals.  They are farmers, and workers, businessmen, professional men,
artists, clerks.

They are the United States of America.

That is why they fight.

We too are the United States of America.

That is why we must work and sacrifice.

It is for them.  It is for us.  It is for victory.

September 7, 1942.

My Friends:

I wish that all the Americans people could read all the citations for various medals recommended
for our soldiers and sailors and marines.  I am picking out one of these citations which tells
of the accomplishments of Lieutenant John James Powers, United States Navy, during three days
of the battles with Japanese forces in the Coral Sea.

During the first two days, Lieutenant Powers, flying a dive-bomber in the face of blasting
enemy anti-aircraft fire, demolished one large enemy gunboat, put another gunboat out of commission,
severely damaged an aircraft tender and a twenty-thousand-ton transport, and scored a direct
hit on an aircraft carrier which burst into flames and sank soon after.

The official citation then describes the morning of the third day of battle.  As the pilots
of his squadron left the ready room to man their planes, Lieutenant Powers said to them, "Remember,
the folks back home are counting on us.  I am going to get a hit if I have to lay it on their
flight deck.

He led his section down to the target from an altitude of 18,000 feet, through a wall of bursting
anti-aircraft shells and swarms of enemy planes.  He dived almost to the very deck of the enemy
carrier, and did not release his bomb until he was sure of a direct hit.  He was last seen
attempting recovery from his dive at the extremely low altitude of two hundred feet, amid a
terrific barrage of shell and bomb fragments, and smoke and flame and debris from the stricken
vessel.  His own plane was destroyed by the explosion of his own bomb.  But he had made good
his promise to "lay it on their flight deck."

I have received a recommendation from the Secretary of the Navy that Lieutenant John James
Powers of New York City, missing in action, be awarded the Medal of Honor.  I hereby and now
make this award.

You and I are "the folks back home" for whose protection Lieutenant Powers fought and repeatedly
risked his life.  He said that we counted on him and his men.  We did not count in vain.  But
have not those men a right to be counting on us?  How are we playing our part "back home" in
winning this war?

The answer is that we are not doing enough.

Today I sent a message to the Congress, pointing out the overwhelming urgency of the serious
domestic economic crisis with which we are threatened.  Some call it "inflation," which is
a vague sort of term, and others call it a "rise in the cost of living," which is much more
easily understood by most families.

That phrase, "the cost of living," means essentially what a dollar can buy.

From January 1, 1941, to May of this year, nearly a year and a half, the cost of living went
up about 15 percent.  And at that point last May we undertook to freeze the cost of living.
But we could not do a complete job of it, because the Congressional authority at the time exempted
a large part of farm products used for food and for making clothing, although several weeks
before, I had asked the Congress for legislation to stabilize all farm prices.

At that time I had told the Congress that there were seven elements in our national economy,
all of which had to be controlled; and that if any one essential element remained exempt, the
cost of living could not be held down.

On only two of these points--both of them vital however--did I call for Congressional action.
These two vital points were:  First, taxation; and, second, the stabilization of all farm prices
at parity.

"Parity" is a standard for the maintenance of good farm prices.  It was established as our
national policy way back in 1933.  It means that the farmer and the city worker are on the
same relative ratio with each other in purchasing power as they were during a period some thirty
years before--at a time then the farmer had a satisfactory purchasing power.  One hundred percent
of parity, therefore, has been accepted by farmers as the fair standard for the prices they
receive.

Last January, however, the Congress passed a law forbidding ceilings on farm prices below 110
percent of parity on some commodities.  And on other commodities the ceiling was even higher,
so that the average possible ceiling is now about 116 percent of parity for agricultural products
as a whole.

This act of favoritism for one particular group in the community increased the cost of food
to everybody--not only to the workers in the city or in the munitions plants, and their families,
but also to the families of the farmers themselves.

Since last May, ceilings have been set on nearly all commodities, rents services, except the
exempted farm products.  Installment buying, for example, has been effectively controlled.

Wages in certain key industries have been stabilized on the basis of the present cost of living.

But it is obvious to all of us that if the cost of food continues to go up, as it is doing
at present, the wage earner, particularly in the lower brackets, will have a right to an increase
in his wages.  I think that would be essential justice and a practical necessity.

Our experience with the control of other prices during the past few months has brought out
one important fact--the rising cost of living can be controlled, providing that all elements
making up the cost of living are controlled at the same time.  I think that also is an essential
justice and a practical necessity.  We know that parity prices for farm products not now controlled
will not put up the cost of living more than a very small amount; but we also know that if
we must go up to an average of 116 percent of parity for food and other farm products--which
is necessary at present under the Emergency Price Control Act before we can control all farm
prices--the cost of living will get well out of hand.  We are face to face with this danger
today.  Let us meet it and remove it.

I realize that it may seem out of proportion to you to be over- stressing these economic problems
at a time like this, when we are all deeply concerned about the news from far distant fields
of battle.  But I give you the solemn assurance that failure to solve this problem here at
home--and to solve it now--will make more difficult the winning of this war.

If the vicious spiral of inflation ever gets under way, the whole economic system will stagger.
Prices and wages will go up so rapidly that the entire production program will be endangered.
The cost of the war, paid by taxpayers, will jump beyond all present calculations.  It will
mean an uncontrollable rise in prices and in wages, which can result in raising the overall
cost of living as high as another 20 percent soon.  That would mean that the purchasing power
of every dollar that you have in your pay envelope, or in the bank, or included in your insurance
policy or your pension, would be reduced to about eighty cents¹ worth.  I need not tell you
that this would have a demoralizing effect on our people, soldiers and civilians alike.

Overall stabilization of prices, and salaries, wages and profits is necessary to the continued
increasing production of planes and tanks and ships and guns.

In my message to Congress today, I have said that this must be done quickly.  If we wait for
two or three or four or six months it may well be too late.

I have told the Congress that the administration cannot hold the actual cost of food and clothing
down to the present level beyond October first.

Therefore, I have asked the Congress to pass legislation under which the President would be
specifically authorized to stabilize the cost of living, including the price of all farm commodities.
The purpose should be to hold farm prices at parity, or at levels of a recent date, whichever
is higher.  The purpose should also be to keep wages at a point stabilized with today's cost
of living. Both must be regulated at the same time; and neither one of them can or should be
regulated without the other.

At the same time that farm prices are stabilized, I will stabilize wages.

That is plain justice--and plain common sense.

And so I have asked the Congress to take this action by the first of October.  We must now
act with the dispatch which the stern necessities of war require.

I have told the Congress that inaction on their part by that date will leave me with an inescapable
responsibility, a responsibility to the people of this country to see to it that the war effort
is no longer imperiled by the threat of economic chaos.

As I said in my message to the Congress:

In the event that the Congress should fail to act, and act adequately, I shall accept the responsibility,
and I will act.

The President has the powers, under the Constitution and under Congressional Acts, to take
measures necessary to avert a disaster which would interfere with the winning of the war.

I have given the most careful and thoughtful consideration to meeting this issue without further
reference to the Congress.  I have determined, however, on this vital matter to consult with
the Congress.

There may be those who will say that, if the situation is as grave as I have stated it to be,
I should use my powers and act now.  I can only say that I have approached this problem from
every angle, and that I have decided that the course of conduct which I am following in this
case is consistent with my sense of responsibility as President in time of war, and with my
deep and unalterable devotion to the processes of democracy.

The responsibilities of the President in wartime to protect the nation are very grave.  This
total war, with our fighting fronts all over the world, makes the use of the executive power
far more essential than in any previous war.

If we were invaded, the people of this country would expect the President to use any and all
means to repel the invader.

Now the revolution and the war between the states were fought on our own soil, but today this
war will be won or lost on other continents and in remote seas.  I cannot tell what powers
may have to be exercised in order to win this war.

The American people can be sure that I will use my powers with a full sense of responsibility
to the Constitution and to my country. The American people can also be sure that I shall not
hesitate to use every power vested in me to accomplish the defeat of our enemies in any part
of the world where our own safety demands such defeat.

And when the war is over, the powers under which I act will automatically revert to the people
of the United States--to the people to whom those powers belong.

I think I know the American farmers.  I know they are as wholehearted in their patriotism as
any other group.  They have suffered from the constant fluctuations of farm prices-- occasionally
too high, more often too low.  Nobody knows better than farmers the disastrous effects of wartime
inflationary booms, and postwar deflationary panics.

So I have also suggested today that the Congress make our agricultural economy more stable.
I have recommended that in addition to putting ceilings on all farm products now, we also place
a definite floor under those prices for a period beginning now, continuing through the war,
and for as long as necessary after the war.  In this way we will be able to avoid the collapse
of farm prices that happened after the last war.  The farmers must be assured of a fair minimum
price during the readjustment period which will follow the great, excessive world food demands
which now prevail.

We must have some floor under farm prices, as we must have under wages, if we are to avoid
the dangers of a postwar inflation on the one hand, or the catastrophe of a crash in farm prices
and wages on the other.

Today I have also advised the Congress of the importance of speeding up the passage of the
tax bill.  The federal treasury is losing millions of dollars each and every day because the
bill has not yet been passed.  Taxation is the only practical way of preventing the incomes
and profits of individuals and corporations from getting too high.

I have told the Congress once more that all net individual incomes, after payment of all taxes,
should be limited effectively by further taxation to a maximum net income of $25,000 a year.
And it is equally important that corporate profits should not exceed a reasonable amount in
any case.

The nation must have more money to run the war.  People must stop spending for luxuries.  Our
country needs a far greater share of our incomes.

For this is a global war, and it will cost this nation nearly one hundred billion dollars in 1943.

In that global war there are now four main areas of combat; and I should like to speak briefly
of them, not in the order of their importance, for all of them are vital and all of them are
interrelated.

1.  The Russian front.  Here the Germans are still unable to gain the smashing victory which,
almost a year ago, Hitler announced he had already achieved.  Germany has been able to capture
important Russian territory.  Nevertheless, Hitler has been unable to destroy a single Russian
Army; and this, you may be sure, has been, and still is, his main objective.  Millions of German
troops seem doomed to spend another cruel and bitter winter on the Russian front.  Yes, the
Russians are killing more Nazis, and destroying more airplanes and tanks than are being smashed
on any other front.  They are fighting not only bravely but brilliantly.  In spite of any setbacks
Russia will hold out, and with the help of her Allies will ultimately drive every Nazi from
her soil.

2.  The Pacific Ocean Area.  This area must be grouped together as a whole--every part of it,
land and sea.  We have stopped one major Japanese offensive; and we have inflicted heavy losses
on their fleet.  But they still possess great strength; they seek to keep the initiative; and
they will undoubtedly strike hard again.  We must not overrate the importance of our successes
in the Solomon Islands, though we may be proud of the skill with which these local operations
were conducted.  At the same time, we need not underrate the significance of our victory at
Midway.  There we stopped the major Japanese offensive.

3.  In the Mediterranean and the Middle East area the British, together with the South Africans,
Australians, New Zealanders, Indian troops and others of the United Nations, including ourselves,
are fighting a desperate battle with the Germans and Italians.  The Axis powers are fighting
to gain control of that area, dominate the Mediterranean and the Indian Ocean, and gain contact
with the Japanese Navy.  The battle in the Middle East is now joined.  We are well aware of
our danger, but we are hopeful of the outcome.

4.  The European area.  Here the aim is an offensive against Germany. There are at least a
dozen different points at which attacks can be launched.  You, of course, do not expect me
to give details of future plans, but you can rest assured that preparations are being made
here and in Britain toward this purpose. Particularly
Facia, which was his sencillota and noble, had been wasted. Spent necklaces of all colors, rings,
and alfilerones espejucos of all makes, a lot of money: all the savings of its soldiers and
more than requested account, courageously facing the indignities apostrophized with the master.
For those craving was insatiable and he boldly inconceivable in shortly before, so modest, courteous
and respectful girl, flowed from a "I do not know a bad one" as a curse, and that "pulling the
pulling" against his taste to store trinkets, and particularly to the graces of baratijero.
As he had noted the inclination and she was (no offense) the best girl among the many and
very good they had in place, pulled the rogue and chicoleos flattery, and even the haunted house at
night and sang a few songs 'fine' to the sound of a guitar "that properly speaking between
his hands. " In short, the innocent ewe came to click with such terms Sorcerer's lover, only
she was a bit of trial, the purely essential to respond in one of his most obstinate sieges,
that "being like God sent and in front of the Church and to live in Tablanca to the side of
his master, when would see fit. "

He held the man his impetus to the response; meditóla for a few days,
decided to done so; corrióse the news by the people envied his mad
fortune Facia all it girls, the case came to the ears of Don Celso,
touched the sky with his hands made the unfortunate crazy in love
and without shame that there was no where to catch it, swore and swore
that baratijero was a scoundrel of seven soles, that there was only
looking at his face to convince this, that God knows where he would
be born, and where would have gone to where then, and that the cross
of Jesus Christ consider this and that and beyond ... As if quiet.

The spell was swallowed, and Facia not give up a point in their endeavor.
  And
wars are not won by people who are concerned primarily with their own comfort, their own convenience,
their own pocketbooks.

We Americans of today bear the gravest of responsibilities.  And all of the United Nations
share them.

All of us here at home are being tested--for our fortitude, for our selfless devotion to our
country and to our cause.

This is the toughest war of all time.  We need not leave it to historians of the future to
answer the question whether we are tough enough to meet this unprecedented challenge.  We can
give that answer now.  The answer is "Yes."

October 12, 1942.

My Fellow Americans:

As you know, I have recently come back from a trip of inspection of camps and training stations
and war factories.

The main thing that I observed on this trip is not exactly news.  It is the plain fact that
the American people are united as never before in their determination to do a job and to do
it well.

This whole nation of 130,000,000 free men, women and children is becoming one great fighting
force.  Some of us are soldiers or sailors, some of us are civilians.  Some of us are fighting
the war in airplanes five miles above the continent of Europe or the islands of the Pacific--and
some of us are fighting it in mines deep down in the earth of Pennsylvania or Montana.  A few
of us are decorated with medals for heroic achievement, but all of us can have that deep and
permanent inner satisfaction that comes from doing the best we know how--each of us playing
an honorable part in the great struggle to save our democratic civilization.

Whatever our individual circumstances or opportunities--we are all in it, and our spirit is
good, and we Americans and our allies are going to win--and do not let anyone tell you anything
different.

That is the main thing that I saw on my trip around the country-- unbeatable spirit.  If the
leaders of Germany and Japan could have come along with me, and had seen what I saw, they would
agree with my conclusions.  Unfortunately, they were unable to make the trip with me.  And
that is one reason why we are carrying our war effort overseas--to them.

With every passing week the war increases in scope and intensity. That is true in Europe, in
Africa, in Asia, and on all the seas.

The strength of the United Nations is on the upgrade in this war. The Axis leaders, on the
other hand, know by now that they have already reached their full strength, and that their
steadily mounting losses in men and material cannot be fully replaced. Germany and Japan are
already realizing what the inevitable result will be when the total strength of the United
Nations hits them--at additional places on the earth's surface.

One of the principal weapons of our enemies in the past has been their use of what is called
"The War of Nerves."  They have spread falsehood and terror; they have started Fifth Columns
everywhere; they have duped the innocent; they have fomented suspicion and hate between neighbors;
they have aided and abetted those people in other nations--including our own--whose words and
deeds are advertised from Berlin and from Tokyo as proof of our disunity.

The greatest defense against all such propaganda, of course, is the common sense of the common
people--and that defense is prevailing. 

He remained suspended Doña Paca, and came near to it fell from his hands the plate was washing.

'D.
Carlos ... But did you say D. Carlos?

And what ... Do you speak, you asked for me?

- Naturally, with an interest ...

- Is it really?

In good times you remember me such a miser, who has seen me falling
into poverty, to me, the sister of his wife ... Purita and Antonio
because my brothers were, you know ... and has not been to reach out
...

- Last year, a day like today, when she became widowed, sent
the lady a Socorrito.

- Six hard!

What a shame! - Doña Paca said, turning his anger and animosity and despite accumulated in his soul
for so many years of disgrace and scarcity -. My face put as it were fire. Six hard! Purita
and some rags, dirty gloves, skirts broken, and a suit of society, ancient, from when he married
the Queen ... What helped me those crap? ... Finally, you continue: I found it, what time, what
site?

- It was about 0:30. He left San Sebastian ...

- I know who spends all morning from church to church, gnawing bases. You say to 0:30? For if
at that time were you serving lunch to D. Romualdo! ".
It was not Benina woman cowered by this fuck. His mind, so fruitful
for the lie, and his memory most happy to sort the lies he had told
before to support and enforce them of the new lie, took her out of
trouble.

Who are these millions upon whom the life of our country depends? What are they thinking? 
What are their doubts?  What are their hopes?  And how is the work progressing?

The Commander-in-Chief cannot learn all of the answers to these questions in Washington.  And
that is why I made the trip I did.

It is very easy to say, as some have said, that when the President travels through the country
he should go with a blare of trumpets, with crowds on the sidewalks, with batteries of reporters
and photographers--talking and posing with all of the politicians of the land.

But having had some experience in this war and in the last war, I can tell you very simply
that the kind of trip I took permitted me to concentrate on the work I had to do without expending
time, meeting all the demands of publicity.  And--I might add--it was a particular pleasure
to make a tour of the country without having to give a single thought to politics.

I expect to make other trips for similar purposes, and I shall make them in the same way.

In the last war, I had seen great factories; but until I saw some of the new present-day plants,
I had not thoroughly visualized our American war effort.  Of course, I saw only a small portion
of all our plants, but that portion was a good cross-section, and it was deeply impressive.

The United States has been at war for only ten months, and is engaged in the enormous task
of multiplying its armed forces many times.  We are by no means at full production level yet.
But I could not help asking myself on the trip, where would we be today if the government of
the United States had not begun to build many of its factories for this huge increase more
than two years ago, more than a year before war was forced upon us at Pearl Harbor?

