"I have come, Uncle Toney," said the youth, "to see you for the last time. I am going away
to-morrow and, as soon as I can, going back to the distant home I so foolishly left."

"I am sorry you tell me so; won't you be sorry, Miss Alice?" asked Toney. Alice bit her lip,
and the flush upon her cheek was less ruddy than usual.

"You no find dis country good like yourn, young massa?"

"Yes, Toney, this is a good country, and there is no country more beautiful. But, uncle, it
requires more than a beautiful country to make us happy; we must have with us those we love,
and who love us; and the scenes of our childhood--our fathers and mothers, and brothers and
sisters who are glad with us and who sorrow with us, and the companions of our school-days,
to make us happy. I am here without any of these--not a relation within a thousand miles; with
no one to care for me or to love me." There was something plaintively melancholly in his words
and tones. He looked at Alice, her eyes were swimming in tears and she turned away from his gaze.

"You been mity sick, here, young massa, didn't Miss Alice be good to you? Aunt Ann tell me
so. If Miss Alice had not nuss you, you die." Alice stepped into the cabin taking with her
the basket the little negro had borne, and placing its contents away, came out and handing
it to Rose, bid her run home. "I am coming," she said as she adjusted her bonnet-strings, "the
bugaboos won't catch you."

"Yes, Uncle Toney, I am very grateful to Miss Alice. I shall never forget her."

How often that word is thoughtlessly spoken? Never to forget, is a long time to remember. Our
lives are a constant change: the present drives out the past, and one memory usurps the place
of another. Yet there are some memories which are always green. These fasten themselves upon
us in agony. The pleasant are evanescent and pass away as a smile, but the bitter live in sighs,
recurring eternally.

Both were silent, both were thoughtful. "Good-by, Uncle Toney," said Alice.

"May I join you in your walk home, miss?" There was something in the tone of this request,
which caused Alice to look up into his face and pause a moment before replying, when she said,
very timidly, "If you please, sir."

The sun was drooping to the horizon and the shadows made giants as thy grew along the sward.
"Farewell, Uncle Toney," said the gentleman, shaking hands with the old negro. Alice had walked on.

"O! you needn't say farewell so sorry, you'll come back. I sees him. You'll come back. Eberybody
who comes to dis country if he does go way he's sure to come back, ticlar when he once find
putty gall like Miss Alice, ya! ya!" laughed the old man. "You'll come back. I knows it."

In a few moments he was by the side of Alice. They lounged lazily along through the beautiful
forest a few paces behind Rose, who was too much afraid of bugaboos to allow herself to get
far away from her mistress. There was a chill in the atmosphere and now and then a fitful gust
of icy wind from the northwest. Winter was coming: these avant-couriers whispered of it; and
overhead, swooped high up in the blue, a host of whooping cranes, marching in chase of the
sun now cheering the Antarctic just waking from his winter's sleep.

"I believe, sir," said Alice, "that the ancients watched the flight of birds and predicated
their predictions or prophecies upon them."

"Yes, the untutored of every age and country observe more closely the operations of nature
than the educated. It is their only means of learning. They see certain movements in the beasts
and the birds before certain atmospheric changes, and their superstitions influence a belief,
that sentient and invisible beings cause this by communicating the changes going on. The more
sagacious and observant, and I may add the less scrupulous, lay hold upon this knowledge, to
practice for their own pleasure or profit upon the credulity of the masses. There are very
many superstitions, miss, which are endowed with a character so holy, that he who would expose
them is hunted down as a wretch, unworthy of life. The older and the more ridiculous these,
the more holy, and the more sacredly cherished."

"Are you not afraid thus to speak--is there nothing too holy to be profanely assaulted?"

"Nothing which contravenes man's reason. Truth courts investigation--the more disrobed, the
more beautiful. Science reveals, that there is no mystery in truth. Its simplicity is often
disfigured with unnatural and ridiculous superstitions, and these sometimes are so prominent
as to conceal it. They certainly, with many, bring it into disrepute. The more intellectual
pluck these off and cast them away. They see and know the truth. Yonder birds obey an instinct:
the chill to their more sensitive natures warns them that the winter, or the tempest, or the
rain-storm is upon them; they obey this instinct and fly from it. Yet it in due time follows
these--the more observant know it, and predict it. Those, with the ancients, were sooth-sayers
or prophets; with us, they are the same with the ignorant negroes; with the whites, not quite
so ignorant, they are--but, miss, I will not say. I must exercise a little prudence to avoid
the wrath of the ignorant--they are multitudinous and very powerful."

"Kind sir, tell me, have you no superstitions? Has nothing ever occurred to you, your reason
could not account for? Have no predictions, to be revealed in the coming future, come to you
as foretold?"

"Do not press me on that point, if you please, I might astonish and offend you."

"I am not in the least afraid of your offending me, sir. I could not look in your face and
feel its inspirations, and believe you capable of offending me."

"Thank you for the generous confidence, thank you. I am going and shall remember this so long
as I live, and when in my native land, will think of it as too sacred for the keeping of any
but myself."

"Are you really going to leave us, and so soon? I--I--would--but--"

"Miss Alice, I have trespassed too long already upon your brother's hospitality; beside, Miss
Alice, I begin to feel that his welcome is worn out. Your brother, for some days, has seemed
less cordial than was his wont during the first weeks of my stay here."

"My brother, sir, is a strange being--a creature of whims and caprices. There is nothing fixed
or settled in his opinions or conduct. His inviting you to spend the summer with us was a whim:
one that has astonished several who have not hesitated to express it. It is as likely on his
return from his river place, that he will devour you with kindness as that he will meet you
with the coldness he has manifested for some days. Do not let your conduct be influenced by
his whims."

"Miss Alice, I am suspicious, perhaps, by nature. I have thought that you have avoided me lately.
I have been very lonesome at times."

Alice lifted her bonnet from her head, and was swinging it by the strings as she walked along
for a few steps, when she stopped, and, turning to her companion, said with a firm though timid
voice: "I cannot be deceitful. You have properly guessed: I have avoided you. It was on your
account as well as my own. My self-respect is in conflict with my respect for you. I need not
tell you why I avoided you; but I will--conscious that I am speaking to a gentleman who will
appreciate my motives and preserve inviolate my communications. You saw my cousin hurry away
from here. She came to remain some weeks. The cause of her going was my brother. From some
strange, unaccountable cause he became offended with her, and charged her with giving bad advice
to me. What she has said to me as advice since she came was in the privacy of my bedroom, and
in such tones that had he or another been in the chamber they could not have overheard it.
I know, sir, and in shame do I speak it, that I am under the surveillance of the servants,
who report to my brother and my sister my every act and every word; and I know, too, my brother's
imagination supplies in many instances these reports. Why I am thus watched I know not.

"My brother is my guardian, and nature and duty, it would seem, should prompt him to guard
my happiness as well as my interest; but I know in the one instance he fails, and I fear in
the other I am suffering. All my family fear him, and none of them love me. I am my parents'
youngest child. Oh, sir! England is not the only country where it is a curse to be a younger
child. My father died when I was an infant. My mother was affectionate and indulgent; my sisters
were harsh and tyrannical, and in very early girlhood taught me to hate them. My mother was
made miserable by their treatment of me; and my brother, too, quarrelled with her because she
would not subject me to the servility of the discipline he prescribed. This quarrel ripened
into hate, and he never came to the house or spoke to my mother for years.

"The day before she died, and when her recovery was thought to be impossible, he came with
a prepared will and witnesses, which in their presence he almost forced her to sign: in this
will I was greatly wronged, and this brother has tauntingly told me the cause of this was my
being the means of prejudicing our mother against him.

"He married a coarse, vulgar Kentucky woman, and brought her into the house. She was insolent
and disrespectful toward my mother, and I resented it. She left the house, and died a few months
after. Since that day, though I was almost a child, my life has been one of constant persecution
on the part of my brother and sisters. I am compelled to endure it, but do so under protest;
if not in words, I do in manner, and this I am persuaded you have on more than one occasion
observed. Please do not consider me impertinent, nor let it influence you in your opinion of
me, when I tell you my brother has rudely said to me that I was too forward in my intercourse
with you. It is humiliating to say this to you; but I must, for it explains my conduct, which
save in this regard has been motiveless.

"A lady born to the inheritance of fortune is very unpleasantly situated, both toward her family
and to the world. These seem solicitous to take greater interest in her pecuniary affairs than
in her personal happiness, and are always careful to warn her that her money is more sought
than herself--distracting her mind and feelings, and keeping her constantly miserable. Since
my school-days I have been companionless. If I have gone into society, I have been under the
guard of one or the other of my sisters. These are cold, austere, and repulsive, and especially
toward those who would most likely seek my society, and with whom I would most naturally be
pleased. I must be retired, cold, and never to seem pleased, but always remarkably silent and
dignified. I must be a goddess to be worshipped, and not an equal to be approached and my society
courted companionably. In fine, I was to be miserable, and make all who came to me participate
in this misery. It was more agreeable to remain at home among my flowers and shrubs, my books,
and my visits to Uncle Toney. Do you wonder, sir, that I seem eccentric? You know how the young
love companionship--how they crave the amusements which lend zest to life. I enjoy none of
this, and I am sometimes, I believe, nearly crazy. I fear you think me so, now. I want to love
my brother, but he will not permit me to do so. I fear he has a nature so unlovable that such
a feeling toward him animates no heart. My sisters and a drunken sot of a brother-in-law pretend
to love him--but they measure their affection by the hope of gain. They reside in Louisiana,
and I am glad they are not here during your stay--for you would certainly be insulted, especially
if they saw the slightest evidence of esteem for you on brother's part, or kindness on mine."

"Oh! sir, how true is the Scripture, 'Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh.'
Out of my heart's fulness have I spoken, and, I fear you will think, out of my heart's folly,
too; and in my heart's sincerity I tell you I do not know why I have done so to you--for I
have never said anything of these things to any one but cousin Ann, before. Perhaps it is because
I know you are going away and you will not come to rebuke me with your presence any more; for
indeed, sir, I do not know how I could meet you and not blush at the memory of this evening's
walk."

"Miss Alice, I have a memory, or it may be a fancy, that in the delirium of my fever, some
weeks since, I saw you like a spirit of light flitting about my bed and ministering to my wants;
and I am sure, when all supposed me in extremis, you came, and on my brow placed your soft
hand, and pressed it gently above my burning brain. My every nerve thrilled beneath that touch;
my dead extremities trembled and were alive again. The brain resumed her functions, and the
nervous fluid flashed through my entire system, and departing life came back again. You saved
my life. Were the records of time and events opened to my inspection and I could read it there,
I could not more believe this than I now do. Then what is due from me to you? This new evidence
of confidence adds nothing to the obligation--it was full without it. But it is an inspiration
I had not before. We are here, Miss Alice, within a few steps of the threshold of the house
in which you were born. I am far from the land of my nativity--our meeting was strange, and
this second meeting not the less so."

"Ah! you have almost confessed that you are superstitious. You need not have acknowledged that
you are romantic; your young life has proven this."

"Stay, Miss Alice: you asked me but now if there had never been the realization of previous
predictions. You said you knew I would not offend you. I would not, but may. Now listen to
me, here under the shade of this old oak. When I was a child, my nurse was an aged African
woman; like all her race, she was full of superstition, and she would converse with me of mysteries,
and spells, and wonderful revelations, until my mind was filled as her own with strange superstitions
and presentiments. On one occasion, on the Sabbath day, I found her in the orchard, seated
beneath a great pear-tree, and went to her--for though I was no longer her ward to nurse, I
liked to be with her and hear her talk. It was a beautiful day, the fruit-trees were in bloom,
and the spring-feeling in the sunshine was kindling life into activity through all nature.
She asked me to let her see my hand and she would tell me my fortune. She pretended sagely
to view every line, and here and there to press her index finger sharply down. At length she
began to speak.

"'You will not stay with your people,' she said, 'but will be a great traveller; and when in
some far-away country, you will be sick--mighty sick; and a beautiful woman will find you,
and she will nurse you, and you will love that beautiful woman, and she will love you, and
she will marry you, and you will not come to reside with your people any more.' Now, Miss Alice,
I have wandered far away from my home, have been sick, very sick, and a beautiful woman has
nursed me until I am well, and oh! from my heart I do love that beautiful woman. So far all
of this wild prediction has been verified; and it remains with you, my dear Alice, to say if
the latter portion shall be. You are too candid to delay reply, and too sincere to speak equivocally."

She trembled as she looked up into his face and read it for a moment. "You are too much of
a gentleman to speak as you have, unless it came from your heart. O my God! is this reality,
or am I dreaming?" She drooped her head upon his shoulder, and said: "'Whither thou goest I
will go; thy house shall be my house, and thy God my God.'"

The full moon was just above the horizon, and the long dark shadows veiled them from view.
The judge rode in at the gate, and leaving his horse, went directly into the house. A moment
after a carriage drove into the court, and from it dismounted the brother-in-law sot and her
weird sister; for indeed she was a very Hecate in looks and mischief. Alice stole away to her
chamber; and the happy stranger to wander among the shrubs, regardless of the damp and chill.

Here were two young hearts conscious of happiness; but was it a happiness derived from the
respective merits and congenial natures of the two known to each other? They were comparatively
strangers, knowing little of the antecedents of each other. Each was unhappily situated--the
one from poverty, the other owing to her wealth; the one ardently desirous of bettering pecuniarily
his position, the other to release herself from restraints that were tyrannical and to enjoy
that independence which she felt was her natural right. Might not these considerations override
the purer impulses of the heart arising from that regard for qualities which win upon the mind
until ripened first into deep respect, then mellowed into tender affection by association protracted
and intimate? They had been reared in societies radically different: their early impressions
were equally antagonistic; but their aims were identical--to escape from present personal embarrassments.

They had met romantically. He had been removed for many months from the presence of civilized
society, though naturally fond of female association, and craving deeply in his heart the communion
again of that intercourse, which had (as he had learned from sad experience) been the chief
cause of the happiness of his youth. He met her first as he entered anew the relations of civilized
and social society. She was young and exquisitely beautiful. Their meeting was but for a moment;
their intercourse was intensely delightful to him, and the interest her ardent nature manifested
toward him was extremely captivating. He had gone from her, with her in all his heart.

