+722+. In Babylonia the earliest pair of deities, Lakhmu and Lakhamu, vague forms, were succeeded
by a second pair, Anshar and Kishar, somewhat less vague, and these in their turn yielded to
the more definite group represented by Ea, Bel, and Marduk--deities who became the embodiments
of the highest Babylonian culture; in Assyria Ashur and Ishtar occupied a similar position.
In the long religious history of the Hindus many of the gods prominent in the Veda disappear
or sink into subordinate positions, and deities at first unimportant become supreme. The Greek
succession of dynasties resembles the Babylonian. The ancient Heaven and Earth are followed
by Kronos,[1244] and he is dethroned by Zeus, who represents governmental order and a higher
ethical scheme of society. The Romans appear to have borrowed their chronology of the gods
from the Greeks: the combination of Saturnus with Ops (who belongs rather with Consus), the
identification of these two respectively with Kronos and Rhea, and the dynastic succession
Cælus,[1245] Saturnus, Jupiter, seem not to be earlier than the Hellenizing period in Rome.

+723+. These changes, when original, may have been due partly to the shifting of political
power--the gods of a particular dominant region may have come into prominence and reigned for
a time, giving place then to deities of some other region which had secured the hegemony; the
history of the earliest gods lies far back in a dim region without historical records and therefore
is not to be reconstructed definitely now. But such light as we get from literary records of
later times rather suggests that the dynastic changes are the product of changes in the conception
of the world, and these are as a rule in the direction of sounder and more humane thought.

+724+. There is a general similarity between the great deities that have been created by the
various civilized peoples, since civilization has been practically the same everywhere. But
the gods differ among themselves according to the special characters, needs, and endowments
of the various peoples, so that no deity can be profitably studied without a knowledge of the
physical and mental conditions of the community in which he arose. But everywhere we find that
any one god may become practically supreme. Here again the political element sometimes comes
in--a dominant city or state will impose its special god on a large district. There is also
the natural tendency among men to concentrate on an individual figure. As legendary material
has always gathered around particular men, so the great attributes of divinity gather about
the person of a particular god who, for whatever reason, is the most prominent divine figure
in a given community. Such a god becomes for the moment supreme, to the exclusion of other
deities who under different circumstances might have had similar claims to precedence; and
under favorable conditions a deity thus raised to the highest position may maintain himself
and end by becoming the sole deity of his people and of the world. In any case such a divine
figure becomes an ideal, and thus influences more or less the life of his worshipers.

+725+. In Oriental polytheistic systems the desire to secure completeness in the representation
of divine activity shows itself in the combination of two or more forms into a unity of action.
On the lower level we have the composite figures of Egypt and Babylonia, congeries of bodies,
heads, and limbs, human and nonhuman--the result partly of the survival of ancient (sometimes
outgrown) forms or the fusion of local deities, partly of the imaginative collocation of attributes.
Many compound names may be explained in this way; in some cases they seem to arise from accidental
local relations of cults.

As illustrations of lines of growth in divine figures we may take brief biographies of some
of the greater gods. It is in comparatively few cases that the development of a god's character
can be satisfactorily traced. There are no records of beginnings--we can only make what may
be judged to be probable inferences from names, cults, and functions. The difficulty of the
subject is increased by the fact that mythologians and theologians have obscured early conceptions
by new combinations and interpretations, often employing familiar divine figures simply as
vehicles of late philosophical ideas or some other sort of local dogmas.

+726+. Egypt.[1246] The cult of the sun in Egypt issued in the creation of a group of solar
divinities, the most important of whom are Horus (Har or Hor) and Ra (or Rê).

Horus appears to have been the great god of united Egypt in the earliest times about which
we have information. The kings of the predynastic and early dynastic periods are called "worshipers
of Horus," a title that was adopted by succeeding monarchs, who had each his "Horus name."[1247]
He was also the special patron of some small communities--a fact that has been variously interpreted
as indicating that the god's movement was from local to general patron,[1248] or that it was
in the opposite direction[1249]; the former of these hypotheses is favored by what appears
elsewhere in such changes in the positions of deities. As Horus is always connected with light
he may have been originally a local sun-god; it is possible, however, that he was a clan god
with general functions, who was brought into association with the sun by the natural progress
of thought. In any case he became a great sun-god, but yielded his position of eminence to
Ra. The myth of his conflict with Set, the representative of darkness, is probably a priestly
dualistic construction, resting, perhaps, on a political situation (the struggle between the
North and the South of the Egyptian territory).[1250]

+727+. The general development of Ra is plain, though details are lacking. It may be inferred
from his name (which means 'sun') that he was originally the physical sun. Traces of his early
crudeness appear in the stories of his destruction of mankind, and of the way in which Isis,
by a trick, got from him his true name and, with it, his power.[1251] With the growth of his
native land (Lower Egypt) he became the great lord of the sun, and finally universal lord;[1252]
his supremacy was doubtless due in part to the political importance of On (Heliopolis), the
seat of his chief shrine. What other circumstances contributed to his victory over Horus are
not recorded; in general it may be supposed that political changes occasioned the recedence
of the latter.

The primacy of Ra is illustrated by the fact that Amon was identified with him. Amon, originally
the local god of Thebes,[1253] became great in the South as Ra became great in the North, rising
with the growth of the Theban kingdom. His hold on the people, and particularly (as was natural)
on the priests, is shown in a noteworthy way by the episode of Amenhotep IV's attempt to supplant
him by establishing a substantially monotheistic cult of the sun-god Aton; the attempt was
successful only during the king's life--after his death Amon, under the vigorous leadership
of the Theban priests, resumed his old position and maintained it until the first break-up
of the national Egyptian government. But it was Amon-Ra that became supreme from the fourteenth
century onward. The combination of the names was made possible by the social and political
union of the two divisions of the land, and it was Ra who gave special glory to Amon.[1254]

+728+. A different line of growth appears in the history of Osiris--he owed his eminence mainly
to his connection with the dead. Where his cult arose is not known; he was a very old god,
possibly prominent in the predynastic period;[1255] at a later time the importance of Abydos,
the chief seat of his worship, may have added to his reputation. But the ceremonies of his
cult and the myths that grew up about his name indicate that he was originally a deity of vegetation,
the patron of the underground productive forces of the earth, and so, naturally, he became
the lord of the Underworld,[1256] and eventually (as ethical conceptions of life became more
definite in Egypt) the embodiment of future justice, the determiner of the moral character
and the everlasting fate of men. Why he and not some other underground god became Underworld
judge the data do not make clear. His association with the death and revivification of plants
gave a peculiarly human character to his mythical biography and a dramatic and picturesque
tone to his cult.[1257] Of all ancient lords of the Otherworld it is Osiris that shows the
most continuous progress and reaches the highest ethical plane--a fact that must be referred
to the intense interest of the Egyptians in the future.[1258]

+729+. The three most prominent female deities of the Egyptian pantheon, Hathor of Dendera,
Neith (Nit, Neit) of Sais, and Isis of Buto, exhibit one and the same type of character, and
each is occasionally identified with one of the others. Hathor was widely worshiped, but was
not otherwise especially noteworthy. The famous inscription said to have stood in the temple
of Neith at Sais ("What is and what shall be and what has been am I--my veil no one has lifted"[1259])
seems not to be immediately connected with any important religious movement, though it is in
keeping with the liberal and mystical tendency of the later time. The third goddess, Isis,
had a more remarkable history. Her beginnings are obscure, and she appears in the inscriptions
later than the other two. She may have been a local deity,[1260] brought into association with
Osiris (as his sister or his wife) through the collocation of their cults, and thus sharing
his popularity; or she may have been a late theological creation.[1261] Whatever her origin,
as early as the sixteenth century B.C. she appears as a great magician (poisoning and healing
Ra by magic arts),[1262] then (along with Osiris) as civilizer, and finally as model wife and
mother, and as serene and beneficent mistress of the land. It was, apparently, in this last
character that she became the gathering-point for the higher religious and ethical ideas of
the time, and the central figure in a religious scheme that was widely adopted in and out of
Egypt and seemed to be a formidable rival of Christianity.[1263]

+730+. India. It is in India that we find the most varied and most sweeping development in
the functions and positions of deities--a result due in part to the long-continued movement
of philosophic thought, partly to changes in the popular religious point of view occasioned
by modifications of the social life.[1264]

The etymology of the name Varuna is doubtful, but the representation of him in the Rig-Veda
points to the sky as his original form--he is a clear example of a sky-god who becomes universal.
Of his earliest history we have no information--in the most ancient records he is already fully
formed. In the Rig-Veda he embraces the whole of life--he is absolute ruler and moral governor,
he punishes sin and forgives the penitent. In conjunction with Mitra he is the lord of order.[1265]
Mitra, originally the physical sun, is naturally associated with Varuna, but in the Rig-Veda
occupies a generally subordinate position, though he appears sometimes to have the attributes
of his associate; the two together embody a lofty ethical conception. In accordance with the
Hindu fondness for metaphysical abstractions and generalizations the nature god Varuna in the
course of time yielded the primacy to Prajapati, 'lord of beings,'[1266] who in his turn gave
way to the impersonal Brahma. In the popular cults as well as in philosophical systems Varuna
sank (or perhaps returned) to the position of patron of phenomena of nature--there was no longer
need of him.

+731+. A god of somewhat uncertain moral character is Indra, who as a nature god is closely
connected with the violent phenomena of the air (rain, thunder, and lightning). In this relation
he is often terrible, often beneficent, but with low tastes that it is difficult to explain.
His fondness for soma, without which he attempts nothing, is perhaps a priestly touch, a glorification
of the drink that played so important a part in the ritual; or he may herein be an expression
of popular tastes. The sensuous character of the heaven of which he (as air-god) is lord arose
doubtless in response to early conceptions of happiness;[1267] it is not unlike the paradise
of Mohammed, which is to be regarded not as immoral, but only as the embodiment of the existing
conception of happy family life. Yet Indra also became a universal god, the controller of all
things, and it was perhaps due to his multiform human character as warrior and rain-giver[1268]
(in his victorious conflict with the cloud-dragon), and as representative of bodily enjoyment,
that he became the favorite god of the people. It is not hard to understand why Agni, fire,
should be associated with him and share his popularity to some extent; but the importance of
fire in the sacrifice gave Agni a peculiar prominence in the ritual.

+732+. The most curious case of transformation and exaltation is found in the history of Soma,
at first a plant whose juice was intoxicating, then a means of ecstatic excitement, a gift
to the gods, the drink of the gods, and finally itself a god invested with the greatest attributes.
This divinization of a drink was no doubt mainly priestly--it is a striking illustration of
the power of the association of ideas, and belongs in the same general category with the deification
of abstractions spoken of above.[1269]

+733+. An example of a god leaping from an inferior position to the highest place in the pantheon
is afforded by Vishnu, a nature god of some sort, described in the early documents as traversing
the universe in three strides. Relatively insignificant in the earlier period and in the Upanishads,
he appears in the epic, and afterwards, as the greatest of the gods, and, in the form of his
avatar Krishna, becomes the head of a religion which has often been compared with Christianity
in the purity of its moral conceptions. By his side in this later time stands his rival Çiva,
the chief figure in a sect or system which shared with Vishnuism the devotion of the later
Hindus. The rise of these two gods is to be referred probably to the dissatisfaction in the
later times with the phenomenal character which still clung, in popular feeling, to the older
deities. Varuna, once supreme, sank after a while to the position of a god of rain, and Indra,
Agni, and Soma were frankly naturalistic, while the impersonal Brahma was too vague to meet
popular demands. What the later generation wanted was a god personal and divorced from physical
phenomena, supreme, ethically high, but invested with warm humanity. These conditions were
fulfilled by Vishnu and Çiva, and particularly by Krishna; that is, the later thought constructed
these new deities in accordance with the demand of the higher and the lower religious feeling
of the time: the two sides of the human demand, the genial and the terrible, are embodied,
the first in Vishnu, the second in Çiva.

+734+. The primeval pair, Heaven and Earth, though represented as the parents of many gods
and worshiped with sacrifices, play no great part in the Hindu religious system. Dyaus, the
Sky, never attained the proportions of the formally identical Zeus and Jupiter. His attributes
are distinctly those of the physical sky. The higher rôle is assigned to Varuna, who is the
sky conceived of as a divine Power divorced from merely physical characteristics;[1270] the
mass of phenomena connected with the sky (thunder, lightning, and such like) are isolated and
referred to various deities. Prithivi, the Earth, in like manner, retains her physical attributes,
and does not become the nourishing mother of all things.[1271]

With a partial exception in the case of Ushas[1272] (Dawn) the early Hindu pantheon contains
no great female figure; there are female counterparts of male deities, but no such transcendent
personages as Isis, Athene, and Demeter. Whether this fact is to be explained from early Hindu
views of the social position of women, or from some other idea, is uncertain. In certain modern
religious cults, however, the worship of the female principle (Çakti) is popular and influential.
It is probable that in early times every tribe or district had its female divine representative
of fertility, an embryonic mother-goddess. If the Aryan Hindus had such a figure, she failed
to grow into a great divinity. But the worship of such deities came into Aryan India at a relatively
recent date, apparently from non-Aryan sources, and has been incorporated in Hindu systems.
Various forms of Çakti have been brought into relation with various gods, the most important
being those that have become attached to the worship of Çiva.[1273] To him is assigned as wife
the frightful figure called Durga or Kali (and known by other names), a blood-loving monster
with an unspeakably licentious cult. Other Çakti deities are more humane, and there is reason
to suppose that the ground of the devotion shown to Kali, especially by women, is in many cases
simply reverence for the female principle in life, or more particularly for motherhood.[1274]

+735+. The original character of the Hindu lord of the Otherworld, Yama, is obscured by the
variety of the descriptions of him in the documents. In the Rig-Veda he appears both as god
and (as it seems) as man. He is the son of the solar deity Vivashant (Vivashat); he is named
in enumerations of gods, and Agni is his friend and his priest; he receives worship, and is
besought to come to the sacrifice.[1275] On the other hand, he is never called "god," but only
"king";[1276] he is spoken of as the "only mortal," and is said to have chosen death; he is
associated in heaven with the "fathers."[1277] The modern interpretations of his origin have
followed these two sets of data. By some writers he has been identified with the sun (particularly
the setting sun), and with the moon.[1278] But these identifications are set aside for the
Veda by the fact that in lists of gods he is distinguished from sun and moon.[1279] By others
he is regarded as the mythical first man, the first ancestor, with residence in the sky, deified
as original ancestors sometimes were, and, as the first to die and enter the world beyond,
made the king of that world.

Though Yama is not the sun in the Veda, it is possible that he was so regarded in the period
preceding the Vedic theological construction, and in support of this view it may be said that
the sun setting, descending into the depths, is a natural symbol of the close of man's life,[1280]
and rising, represents the man's life in the beyond--thus the sun would be identified with
man, and not unnaturally with the first man, the first to die. In support of the other view
may be cited the great rôle ascribed by many peoples to the first man: in savage lore he is
often the creator or arranger of the world,[1281] and he is sometimes, like Yama, the son of
the sun.[1282] Such an one, entering the other world, might become its lord, and in process
of time be divinized and made the son of the creator sun.[1283] The Hindu figure is often compared
to the Avestan first man, Yima; but Yima, so far as appears, was never divinized, and is not
religiously of great importance. Nor do the late Jewish legends and theosophical speculations
bear on the point under consideration: in Paradise, it is said, Adam was waited on by angels,
the angels were commanded by God to pay him homage (so also in the Koran), and he is described
as being the light of the world; and Philo and others conceived of a first or heavenly man
(Adam Kadmon), free from ordinary human weakness, and identical with the Logos or the Messiah--therefore
a judge in the largest sense of the word.[1284] But, while these conceptions testify to the
strong appeal made to the imagination by the figure of the mythical first man, they throw little
light on the original form of Yama--the early constructions do not include the judge of the
other world, and the later ones are too late to explain so early a figure as the Vedic king
of that world.

+736+. In the Rig-Veda Yama is specifically the overlord of the blessed dead--the pious who
were thought worthy to dwell in heaven with the gods and to share to some extent their divinity;
with the wicked he seems to have nothing to do. The general history of the conception of the
future life suggests that in the earliest Indo-Iranian period there was a hades to which all
the dead went.[1285] If there was a divine head of this hades (originally an underground deity,
like Osiris, Allatu, and Ploutos) he would accompany the pious fathers when, in the later Hindu
theologic construction, they were transported to heaven; and if the first ancestor occupied
a distinguished place among the dead,[1286] he might be fused with the divine head into a sort
of unity, and the result might be such a complex figure as Yama appears to be. However this
may be, the Vedic Yama underwent a development in accordance with the changes in the religious
ideas of the people, becoming at last an ethical judge of the dead.[1287]

+737+. Persia. The Mazdean theistic system presents special difficulties.[1288] The nature
of its divine world is remarkable, almost unique, and the literature that has come down to
us was edited at a comparatively late period, probably not before the middle of the third century
of our era, so that it is not always easy to distinguish the earlier and the later elements
of thought. It is generally regarded as certain that the two branches of the Aryan race, the
Indian and the Persian, once dwelt together and formed one community, having the same general
religious system: the material of spirits is substantially the same in the two and they have
certain important names in common--to the Indian Asura, Soma, Mitra, the Persian Ahura, Haoma,
Mithra correspond in form exactly. But in the way in which this material was modified and organized
the two communities differ widely.

+738+. The peculiarity of the Persian system is that it practically disregards all the old
gods except Mithra and Anahita, substituting for them beings designated by names of qualities,
and organizes all extrahuman Powers in two classes--one under the Good Spirit (Spenta Mainyu),
the other under the Bad Spirit (Angro Mainyu). The former is attended by six great beings,
Immortal Spirits (Amesha-spentas): Good Mind, Best Order or Law, Holy Harmony or Wisdom, Piety,
Well-being, Immortality.[1289] In the Gathas, which are commonly held to be the most ancient
Zoroastrian documents, these attendants of the supreme god are often nothing but qualities,
but on the other hand are often personified and worshiped. The rival of the Good Spirit is
surrounded similarly by lying spirits (drujas), among whom one, Aeshma, holds a prominent place.
The two divine chiefs stand side by side in the earliest literature almost as coequal powers;
but it is explained that the wicked one is to be destroyed with all his followers.

+739+. In some of the early hymns (Yaçnas) Mithra is closely attached to Ahura Mazda--the two
are called "the lofty and imperishable ones." The goddess Anahita, first mentioned in an inscription
of Artaxerxes II, and described only in the late Fifth Yasht, appears to have been originally
a deity of water. It was, doubtless, her popularity that led to her official recognition by
Artaxerxes; possibly her formal recognition by the Mazdean leaders was a slow process, since
she does not appear in the older Avesta. In the Yasht she receives worship (being in the form
of a beautiful young woman) as the dispenser of all blessings that come from pure water; she
is said to have been created by Ahura Mazda, and is wholly subordinated to him. Besides these
two a great number of lesser gods are mentioned; the latter, apparently the old local gods
and spirits here subordinated to the supreme god, are unimportant in the official cult. The
souls of the departed also become objects of worship.

+740+. It thus appears that Zoroastrianism was a reform of the old polytheism. The movement
closely resembles the struggle of the Hebrew prophets against the worship of the Canaanite
Baals and other foreign gods. In both cases there is evidence going to show that popular cults
continued after the leaders of the reform had thrown off the offensive elements of the old
system: the Hebrew people continued to worship foreign gods long after the great prophets had
pronounced against them; and the official recognition of Ahura Mazda in the Achæmenian inscriptions[1290]
by no means proves that lower forms of worship were not practiced in Persia by the people.[1291]

+741+. If we ask for the grounds of this recoil from the old gods, we must doubtless hold that
ethical feeling was a powerful motive in the reform, though economic and other considerations
were, doubtless, not without influence.

Since Ahura Mazda is ethically good and his worship ethically pure, there is clearly in its
origin hostility to low modes of worship and to materialistic ideas. Possibly also we have
here a struggle of a clan for the recognition of its own god, as among the Israelites the Yahweh
party represented exclusive devotion to the old national god. If there was such a clan or party
in Persia, it is obvious that it produced men of high intelligence and great moral and organizing
power, and all that we know of the religious history leads us to suppose that the establishment
of the supremacy of Ahura Mazda was the result of a long development.

+742+. As to the provenance of the Mazdean supreme lord, not a few scholars of the present
day hold that he was identical with the Indian Varuna. It is in favor of this identification
that the qualities of the two deities are the same, and there is also the noteworthy fact that
Ahura Mazda is coupled with Mithra as Varuna is coupled with Mitra; according to this view
the Mazdean deity was originally the god of the sky, by whose side naturally stands the sun.
In a case like this, involving a general agreement between two systems of thought, there are
two possible explanations of the relation between them: it may be supposed that one borrowed
from the other (in the present case the borrowing would be on the part of the Persians); or
the explanation may be that the two communities developed original material along the same
general lines, though with local differences. In the absence of historical data it is perhaps
impossible to say which of these explanations is to be preferred. There is, however, no little
difficulty in the supposition that one community has actually borrowed its religious system
from a neighbor; the general probability is that each followed its own line.

+743+. Nor is it probable that the rejection of the old divine names by the Persians was the
result of hostility toward their Indian neighbors. It is doubtless a curious fact that the
Indian name for 'evil spirit,' asura, is in Persian the name of a good spirit, Ahura, while
the Indian diva, the general term for a god, is in Persian the designation of a wicked spirit,
daeva. The Persian employment of daeva for 'evil spirit' may be explained as a protest not
against Indian gods, but against the deities of their own land; so the Hebrew prophets or their
editors apply opprobrious names, "no-god" and other terms, to deities regarded by them as inadequate.
The abstractions of the Mazdean system have been referred to above. They seem to have been
resorted to from a feeling of profound disgust at the worship of some class of people. Unfortunately
we have not the historical data that might make the situation clear. In the Gathas the people
of Ahura Mazda are suffering from the incursions of predatory tribes, and the greater part
of the appeals to the deity are for protection for the herds against their enemies. We thus
have a suggestion of a struggle, political and religious, between the more civilized Aryans
and the savage Tataric tribes around them.

+744+. In the later period of Mazdeanism the old titles of supreme deity were succeeded (though
not displaced) by the terms "Boundless Time" and "Boundless Space," the latter doubtless suggested
by the vault of heaven. These generalizations, however, had little influence on the development
of the theological side of the religion, which has continued to regard Ahura Mazda and Angro
Mainyu as the two heads of the world and the determiners of human life. The rituals of the
Mazdean and Hindu faiths were influenced by the ethical developments of the two, becoming simpler
and more humane with the advance toward elevated conceptions of God and man.

+745+. In view of such facts as are known it may be surmised that the Mazdean system originated
with an Aryan agricultural tribe or body of tribes dwelling near the Caspian Sea, in contact
with hostile nomads. These Aryans, we may assume, had the ordinary early apparatus of spirits
and nature deities (gods of the sun, water, etc.), but, at the same time, a disposition to
concentrate worship on a single god (probably a sky-god), who became the chief tribal deity
and was naturally regarded as the source of all things good, the Good Spirit; the phenomena
of life led them (as it led some other early peoples) to conceive of a rival spirit, the author
of things hostile to life. With economic conditions and intellectual characteristics very different
from those of their Hindu brethren, they developed no capacity for organizing an elaborate
pantheon--they were practically monolatrous, were content with an all-sufficient Good Spirit
(the Bad Spirit being tolerated as an intellectual necessity), gradually subordinated to him
such gods as the popular feeling retained, and relegated to the sphere of evil the host of
inferior hurtful spirits or gods (daevas) whose existence they could not deny.[1292] The religious
leaders, representing and enforcing the tribal tendency of thought, in the course of time gave
more and more definite shape to the cult; perhaps Zoroaster was a preëminent agent in this
movement. Ethical purification, as a matter of course, went hand in hand with cultic organization.
The old gods or spirits, associates of the supreme god, became embodiments of moral conceptions,
and a ritual of physical and moral purity was worked out. Such may have been the general history
of the official system; data for a detailed chronological history are lacking.[1293]

+746+. China. Chinese religion is characterized by a remarkable restraint in ecclesiastical
development: simple religious customs, no native priestly order, few gods, almost no myths.
The basis of the popular religion is the usual material, comprising ancestors, spirits (including
tutelary spirits), a few departmental gods (of war, of the kitchen, etc.), some of which are
said to be deified men. The system is thus nearly the same as that of the central Asiatic Mongolians.[1294]

+747+. The reflective movement (which must have begun long before the sixth century B.C., the
period of Confucius and Lao-tsze) is marked by the attempt to perfect the social organization,
regard being paid mainly to visible, practical relations. Stress is laid on the principle of
order in family and state, which is held to reflect the order of the universe;[1295] speculation
is avoided, there is a minimum of religion. In the more developed religious system the two
prominent features are, first, the dominant conception of the unity of the family and of the
state led to the emphasizing of the worship of ancestors--a cult which, going back to a very
early time, has been interwoven in China with the individual and communal life in a thoroughgoing
way, with a constant infusion of moral ideas; and in the next place, the order of society and
of the external world is represented by Heaven.[1296]

+748+. Originally, doubtless, Heaven was the physical sky (as among the Hindus and Persians
and many other peoples), but at an early period came to be practically the supreme god. A sort
of monotheistic cult has thus been established as the official religion. The emperor is the
Son of Heaven and the High Priest of the nation, and in the great annual sacrifices performed
by him the host of minor powers is practically ignored and worship is addressed to the controlling
powers of the world. This official worship does not set aside the cult of the various spirits,
whose existence is recognized by the minor officials as well as by the people. The cult of
local spirits has grown to extraordinary dimensions. They fill the land, controlling the conditions
of life and demanding constant regard; and the experts, who are supposed to know the laws governing
the action of the spirits (for example, as to proper burial-places), wield enormous power,
and make enormous charges of money. These spirits are treated as of subordinate importance
in the official religion. The process by which China has reached this religious attitude must
have extended over millenniums, and, as is stated above, the intellectual movement in the direction
of simplicity and clearness has been attended by an advance in ethical purity.

+749+. The tendency of Chinese thought is illustrated by the two systems of philosophy which
in the sixth century B.C. formulated the conception of a universal dominant order:[1297] Confucius
represents the extreme logical development of natural order in human life as a product of cosmic
order--he is content absolutely to deal with the practical affairs of life and discourages
attempts to inquire into the nature of gods or into the condition of men after death. Lao-tsze,
on the other hand, similarly taking the Way (tao), or Universal Order, as the informing and
controlling power of the world, appears to have laid the stress on the relation between it
and the human soul--a conception that has affinities with the Stoic Logos. But it is Confucianism
that has remained the creed of educated China. Taoism, beginning, apparently, as a spiritual
system, did not appeal to the Chinese feeling, and speedily degenerated into a system of magical
jugglery. Thus the Chinese, with the feeblest religious sense to be found in any great nation,
have nevertheless reached the grandiose conception of the all-embracing and all-controlling
supreme Heaven. In their case the governing consideration has been the moral organization of
social life, and Nature has swallowed up all great partial deities.

+750+. Japan. Japan has produced no great god;[1298] out of the mass of nature gods reported
in the Kojiki not one becomes preëminent. There is recognition of Heaven and Earth as the beginning
of things, and of the sun as a deity, but neither the sky-god nor the sun-goddess becomes a
truly high god. Japanese theistic development appears to have been crippled at an early period
by the intrusion of Chinese influences; the very name of the national religion, Shinto, 'the
Way of the Gods,' is Chinese. The emperor was deified, and ancestor-worship became the principal
popular cult;[1299] but Confucianism and Buddhism overlaid the native worship at an early period.
The later forms of Shinto have moved rather toward the rejection of the old deities than toward
the creation of a great national god.

+751+. Semitic peoples. Among the various Semitic peoples there is so marked a unity of thought
that, as Robertson Smith has pointed out,[1300] we may speak of the Semitic religion, though
there are noteworthy local differences. Generally we find among these communities, as elsewhere,
a large number of local deities, scarcely distinguishable in their functions one from another.[1301]
A noteworthy illustration of the long continuance of these local cults is given in the attempt
of the last king of Babylon, Nabonidus, to centralize the worship by bringing the statues of
the local deities to Babylon; the result was a general popular protest. Similarly an attempt
was made by King Josiah in the seventh century B.C. to centralize all Israelite worship in
Jerusalem, but the history of the succeeding generations shows that the attempt was not successful.
The local gods represent the clannic and tribal organization, to which the Semites appear to
have clung with peculiar fondness.

+752+. Semitic religion shows an orderly advance through the medium of tribal and national
feeling in conjunction with the regular moral and intellectual growth of the community. First
one god and then another comes to the front as this or that city attains leadership, but these
chief gods are substantially identical with one another in functions. The genealogical relations
introduced by the priestly theologians throw no light on the original characters of the deities
and are often ignored in the inscriptions. A natural division into gods of the sky and gods
of the earth may be recognized, but in the high gods this distinction practically disappears.

