We apprehend that the recent storms of tribulation which have beat upon those fairy islands
of fashion may scatter this frail and fanciful population, and send them by shiploads on missions
of civilization to our shores; in which case, the bustle and animation and the brilliant display
on the old turnpike, spoken of familiarly as the "broad road," will be somewhat increased.

Grace however managed, by the exercise of a good individual taste, to come out of these shopping
conflicts in good order,--a handsome, well-dressed, charming woman, with everybody's best wishes
for, and sympathy in, her happiness.

Lillie was summoned home by urgent messages from her husband, calling her back to take her
share in wedding festivities.

She left willingly; for the fact is that her last conversation with her cousin Harry had made
the situation as uncomfortable to her as if he had unceremoniously deluged her with a pailful
of cold water.

There is a chilly, disagreeable kind of article, called common sense, which is of all things
most repulsive and antipathetical to all petted creatures whose life has consisted in flattery.
It is the kind of talk which sisters are very apt to hear from brothers, and daughters from
fathers and mothers, when fathers and mothers do their duty by them; which sets the world before
them as it is, and not as it is painted by flatterers. Those women who prefer the society of
gentlemen, and who have the faculty of bewitching their senses, never are in the way of hearing
from this cold matter-of-fact region; for them it really does not exist. Every phrase that
meets their ear is polished and softened, guarded and delicately turned, till there is not
a particle of homely truth left in it. They pass their time in a world of illusions; they demand
these illusions of all who approach them, as the sole condition of peace and favor. All gentlemen,
by a sort of instinct, recognize the woman who lives by flattery, and give her her portion
of meat in due season; and thus some poor women are hopelessly buried, as suicides used to
be in Scotland, under a mountain of rubbish, to which each passer-by adds one stone. It is
only by some extraordinary power of circumstances that a man can be found to invade the sovereignty
of a pretty woman with any disagreeable tidings; or, as Junius says, "to instruct the throne
in the language of truth." Harry was brought up to this point only by such a concurrence of
circumstances. He was in love with another woman,--a ready cause for disenchantment. He was
in some sort a family connection; and he saw Lillie's conduct at last, therefore, through the
plain, unvarnished medium of common sense. Moreover, he felt a little pinched in his own conscience
by the view which Rose seemed to take of his part in the matter, and, manlike, was strengthened
in doing his duty by being a little galled and annoyed at the woman whose charms had tempted
him into this dilemma. So he talked to Lillie like a brother; or, in other words, made himself
disagreeably explicit,--showed her her sins, and told her her duties as a married woman. The
charming fair ones who sentimentally desire gentlemen to regard them as sisters do not bargain
for any of this sort of brotherly plainness; and yet they might do it with great advantage.
A brother, who is not a brother, stationed near the ear of a fair friend, is commonly very
careful not to compromise his position by telling unpleasant truths; but, on the present occasion,
Harry made a literal use of the brevet of brotherhood which Lillie had bestowed on him, and
talked to her as the generality of real brothers talk to their sisters, using great plainness
of speech. He withered all her poor little trumpery array of hothouse flowers of sentiment,
by treating them as so much garbage, as all men know they are.