I took my note-book, and wrote out the whole plan, and also calculated the expenses of such
a miniature hospital as I proposed; including furniture beds, household utensils; every thing,
in short, that was necessary in such an institution. With this book, which I still have in
my possession, I went one evening into Dr. Blackwell's parlor, and, seating myself, told her
that I could not work any longer for the fair in the way that the ladies were doing; and then
read my plan to her, which I advocated long and earnestly. She finally agreed with me that
it would be better speedily to establish a small hospital than to wait for the large sum that
had been proposed; though she did not approve of the scheme of the dime collection, fearing
that I would not only meet with great annoyances, but would also injure my health in the effort.
At that time, after some discussion, I agreed with her: now I think that this plan would have
been better than that which I afterwards followed. On the same evening, I proposed, and we
agreed, that, on a year from that day (the 1st of May, 1857), the New-York Infirmary should
be opened.

I went to rest with a light heart, but rose sorrowfully in the morning. "In one year from to-day,
the Infirmary must be opened," said I to myself; "and the funds towards it are two pairs of
half-knit babies' stockings." The day was passed in thinking what was the next best scheme
to raise money for its foundation. At length I remembered my visit to Boston, and some friends
there whose influence might help me to beg for an institution for American women. For myself
I could never have begged; I would sooner have drowned myself: now I determined to beg money
from Americans to establish an institution for their own benefit. This plan was disclosed to
Dr. Blackwell, and agreed upon, as there was nothing risked in it; I taking the whole responsibility.

On the next day, the fair-meeting was held at Dr. Blackwell's. The new plan was brought forward;
and, although it was as yet nothing but a plan, it acted like a warm, soft rain upon a field
after a long drought. The knitting and sewing (for which I have a private horror under all
conditions) were laid aside, to my great relief; and the project was talked of with so much
enthusiasm, that I already saw myself in imagination making my evening visits to the patients
in the New-York Infirmary; while all the members present (and there were unusually many; I
think, six or seven) discussed the question the next day among their circles of friends, whether
Henry Ward Beecher or a physician of high standing should make the opening speech in the institution.

This excitement increased the interest exceedingly and the succeeding meetings were quite enthusiastic.
The babies' stockings were never again resumed (don't think that, because I detested those
stockings so much, I am cruel enough to wish the little creatures to go barefoot); but plans
were made for raising money in New York, and for getting articles for sale on a larger scale.
Dr. Blackwell wrote to her sister. Dr. Emily Blackwell, who was at that time studying in England,
requesting her to make collections among their friends in that country; which she did with success.

After having thus thoroughly impressed the public mind with the idea that the Infirmary must
be opened, we began to look about for a suitable house. In autumn, I went to Boston to see
what aid could be obtained there. I cannot tell you here in what manner I became acquainted
with a circle of noble women, who had both means and the disposition to employ them for such
a purpose: it suffices to say, that I interested them in the undertaking and obtained a hundred
dollars towards the expenses of the fair, together with a promise of a large table of fancy-goods,
and an invitation to come again in case any further aid was needed. At the end of three weeks,
I left Boston for Philadelphia; but here I was not successful, as all who were interested in
the medical education of women contributed largely already to the Philadelphia College. A small
table of fancy-goods was the result of my visit there. The money and promise of goods that
I received in Boston stimulated our friends in New York to such a degree, that, in spite of
Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell's doubts as to whether we should cover the expenses, the fair realized
a thousand dollars. Yet this was not half sufficient to commence the proposed hospital; and
I therefore proposed to Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell that I should go on another begging tour through
New England, while she and her sister (Dr. Emily Blackwell, who had arrived from England a
week before the fair) should arrange matters in New York, where they had more acquaintances
than I. I went for the second time to Boston in February, and met with unexpected success;
bringing back about six hundred dollars in cash, with promises of a like sum for the ensuing
two years. I had represented our scheme as a three-years' experiment In the mean time, the
Drs. Blackwell had hired a large, old-fashioned house, No. 64, Bleeker Street, which we had
looked at together, and which was very well suited to our purpose, devoting the rest of their
time chiefly to endeavors to interest the Legislature in our enterprise; the result of which
was, that, though nothing was granted us that spring, the next winter, when we could show our
institution in operation, the usual dispensary grant was extended to us.

On the 3d of April, I returned from Boston, and almost immediately went to work with some of
our lady-managers to order beds and to furnish the house and dispensary, and also to superintend
the internal changes. After five weeks of hard work, I had the pleasure, on the 15th of May,
1857, of listening in the wards of the New-York Infirmary to the opening speeches delivered
by the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, Dr. Elder, and Rev. Dudley Tyng.

A few days afterwards, I admitted the first house-patient and opened the dispensary, which
I attended two days in the week; Drs. Elizabeth and Emily Blackwell taking charge of it for
the remaining four days. I had offered two years' gratuitous services as my contribution to
the Infirmary, remaining there not only as resident physician, but also as superintendent of
the household and general manager; and attending to my private practice during the afternoon.
The institution grew rapidly, and the number of dispensary patients increased to such an extent,
that the time from seven in the morning until one in the afternoon was wholly occupied in the
examination of cases. In the second year of the existence of the Infirmary the state of Dr.
Elizabeth Blackwell's health compelled her to go to Europe: and for nine months Dr. Emily Blackwell
and I took charge of the business, which at this time was considerable; the attendance at the
dispensary averaging sixty daily.

During the course of this year, I received letters from some of the Trustees of the New-England
Female Medical College in Boston, inquiring whether I were inclined to take charge of a hospital
in connection with that institution. A consultation on the subject with Drs. Elizabeth and
Emily Blackwell seemed to prove to us, that by doing this, and helping the college to attain
its objects, we could probably best aid the cause of the medical education of women. After
hesitating for a long time what course to pursue, I went to Boston in the spring of 1859, in
order to define in a public address my views and position in respect to the study of medicine.
I found so great a desire prevailing for the elevation of the institution to the standard of
the male medical colleges, and such enthusiasm in respect to the proposed hospital, that I
concluded at once to leave the Infirmary; Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell's absence having proved that
it could be sustained by two, not only without loss, but with a steady increase, secured by
the good done by its existence. Having fulfilled my promise of two years to the institution,
on the 5th of June, 1859, I left for Boston, where I am now striving to make the hospital-department
as useful as the New-York Infirmary is to the public and the students.

Now, my dear Mary, you may think me very long in my story, especially in the latter part, of
which you know much already; but I could not refrain from writing fully of this part of my
life, which has been the object of all my undertakings, and for which I have borne trials and
overcome difficulties which would have crushed nine out of ten in my position. I do not expect
that this will be the end of my usefulness; but I do expect that I shall not have to write
to you any more of my doings. It was simply in order that you, my friend, should understand
me fully, and because you have so often expressed a wish to know my life before we met, that
I finished this work. Now you have me externally and internally, past and present: and although
there have been many influences besides which have made their impressions on my peculiar development,
yet they are not of a nature to be spoken of as facts; as, for instance, your friendship for me.

On looking back upon my past life, I may say that I am like a fine ship, that, launched upon
high seas, is tossed about by the winds and waves, and steered against contrary currents, until
finally stranded upon the shore, where, from the materials, a small boat is built, just strong
enough to reach the port into which it had expected to enter with proudly swelling sails. But
this ambition is entirely gone; and I care now very little whether the people recognize what
is in me or not, so long as the object for which I have lived becomes a reality.

And now, my good friend, I must add one wish before I send these last few pages to you; namely,
that I may be enabled some day to go with you to Berlin, to show you the scenes in which my
childhood and youth were passed, and to teach you on the spot the difference between Europe
and America. All other inducements to return have vanished. The death of my father during the
last year severed the last tie that bound me to my native place. Nearly all the men who aided
in promoting my wishes have passed away; and the only stimulus that now remains to revisit
the home of my youth is the wish to wander about there with you, and perhaps two or three other
of my American friends. Until this can be accomplished, I hope to continue my present work
in the New-England Female Medical College, which, though by no means yet what we wish it to
be, is deserving of every effort to raise it to the stand that it ought to take among the medical
institutions of America.

Yours with love,

Marie E. Zakrzewska. Boston, September, 1859.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sweet, pure song has ended. Happy she who has been permitted to set its clear, strong notes
to music. I need not murmur that my own old hand-organ grows useless, since it has been permitted
to grind out the key. Yet Marie's story is told so modestly, and with so much personal reserve,
that, for the sake of the women whom we are both striving to help, I must be forgiven for directing
the public attention to a few of its points.

In all respects, the "little blind doctor" of the story is the Marie Zakrzewska that we know.
The early anecdotes give us the poetic impressibility and the enduring muscular fibre, that
make themselves felt through the lively, facile nature. The voice that ordered the fetters
taken off of crazy Jacob is the voice we still hear in the wards of the hospital. But that
poetic impressibility did not run wild with crazy fancies when she was left to sleep on the
floor of the dead-house: the same strong sense controlled it that started the "tassel manufactory"
in New York, where it had been meant to open a physician's office. Only thirteen years old
when she left school, she had but little aid beside a steady purpose in preparing for her career.
We hear of her slatternly habits; but who would ever guess them, who remembers the quiet, tasteful
dress of later years?

How free from all egotism is the record! The brain-fever which followed her attendance on her
two aunts is mentioned as quietly as if it were a sprained foot. Who of us but can see the
wearing-away of nervous energy which took place with the perpetual care of a cancer and a somnambulist
pressed also by the hard reading suggested by Dr. Arthur Lütze? Berlin educated the second
La Chapelle; but it was for America, not Germany. The dreadful tragedy of Dr. Schmidt's death
is hardly dwelt upon long enough to show its full effects, so fearful is our friend of intruding
a personal matter.

When "Woman's Right to Labor" was printed, many persons expressed their regret that so little
was said about sin and destitution in Boston itself; and many refused to believe that every
pit-fall and snare open in the Old World gaped as widely here. "You have only the testimony
of the girls themselves," they would reply, when I privately told them what I had not thought
it wise to print. I have never regretted yielding to the motives which decided me to withhold
much that I knew. "If they believe not Moses and the prophets, neither would they believe though
one rose from the dead," said, of old, the divine voice; and the hearts that were not touched
by what I thought it fit to tell would never have been stirred to energy by fuller revelations.

In these pages, authenticated by a pure and cultivated woman, who holds a high position among
us, every fact at which I hinted is made plain; and here no careless talker may challenge the
record with impunity. Here, as in New York, smooth-faced men go on board the emigrant-ship,
or the steerage of the long-expected steamer; here, as there, they make friendly offers and
tell plausible lies, which girls who have never walked the streets of Berlin at night, nor
seen the occupants of a hospital-ward at the Charité, can hardly be expected to estimate at
their just worth. The stories which I have told of unknown sufferers are here repeated. The
grand-daughter of Krummacher marries a poor shoemaker to save herself from vice, and poor German
Mary drowns herself in the Hudson because she feels herself a burden on a heartless brother.
Better far to sink beneath its waves than beneath the more remorseless flood which sweeps over
all great cities. Now, when the story of the Water-street cap-makers is told, to be matched
by many another in Boston itself, it is no longer some ignorant, half-trained stranger who
tells the story, but the capable, skilled woman, who, educated for better things, made tassels
and coiffures, and accepted commissions in embroidery, till the merchants were convinced that
here, indeed, was a woman without reproach. Water-street merchants would do well to remember
hereafter that the possibilities of a Zakrzewska lie hidden in every oppressed girl, and govern
themselves accordingly. Think of this accomplished woman, able to earn no more than thirty-six
cents a day,--a day sixteen hours long, which finished a dozen caps at three cents each! What,
then, must become of clumsy and inferior work-women? Think of it long and patiently, till you
come to see, as she bids you, the true relation between the idleness of women and money in
the Fifth Avenue and the hunted squalor of women without money at the Five Points. Women of
Boston, the parallel stands good for you. Listen, and you may hear the dull murmur of your
own "Black Sea," as it surges against your gateway.

