The jury system, though somewhat crude and not always certain, has advantages that outweigh
its possibility of injustice in the judicial system of a free government among a free people.
It is important that the people shall have confidence in the courts, and it is important that
they shall feel that they may themselves be a part of the judicial machinery. The value of
popular confidence in the verdict of a jury selected at random from a community is great enough
to offset any tendency to error that may at times arise from the undue influence of a jury
advocate upholding one side of the controversy before them. If the jury is misled by the histrionic
eloquence of counsel so that it clearly violates justice in its verdict, the court may always
set aside its decision and give a new trial. Moreover, in any properly adjusted system, the
judge should be able to clear the atmosphere of any false emotion that counsel may have created.
He can remind the jury in his charge that they are judges, who may not indulge their emotions
or their prejudices. He should follow closely the argument of counsel to the jury in order
that his charge may clear up the evidence by inviting the attention of the jury to the weakness
of proof at critical points of the cause, or by pointing out either the bias of witnesses or
their opportunity or lack of it for observation, thereby eliminating those phases of the controversy
that the earnestness of counsel may have seized upon to divert the attention of the jury from
the real issue.

I have recently heard an arraignment of our present judicial system in the trial of causes
by a prominent, able and experienced member of the Boston Bar. (I am glad to call him a friend.
I value him highly as such.) He ascribes what he calls the growing lack of confidence in the
justice and equity of litigation in the courts to the fundamental error in their procedure.
He feels that the procedure now in vogue authorizes and in fact requires counsel to withhold
facts from the court which would help the cause of justice if they were brought out by his
own statement. To remedy this he suggests that all counsel should be compelled to disclose
any facts communicated to them by their clients which would require a decision of the case
against the clients. He contends further that the rules of procedure, which exclude hearsay
evidence, and prevent the jury from hearing many facts which business men regard as important
evidence, make it difficult to reach the truth which is essential to justice.

I set out this view as a possible basis for a discussion of the grounds for popular criticism
of the courts. To require the counsel to disclose the confidential communications of his client
to the very court and jury which are to pass on the issue which he is making, would end forever
the possibility of any useful relation between lawyer and client. It is essential for the proper
presentation of the client's cause that he should be able to talk freely with his counsel without
fear of disclosure. This has always been recognized and has acted as a most salutary restriction
on the conduct of counsel. No litigants, or intending litigants, would employ counsel if the
latter were to assume the duty of extracting from their clients all their innermost thoughts
with a view to revealing them to the court. The useful function of lawyers is not only to conduct
litigation but to avoid it, where possible, by advising settlement or withholding suit. Thus,
any rule that interfered with the complete disclosure of the client's inmost thoughts on the
issue he presents would seriously obstruct the peace that is gained for society by the compromises
which the counsel is able to advise.

The objection to the exclusion of hearsay evidence is equally unfounded. Its uses are said
to be threefold, to convince in affairs of the world, to serve as the basis of action for business
men, and to prevent opportunity for false witness. Yet it is not admissible in a court of justice
to prove or disprove either a cause or a defence. The rules of evidence have been worked out
by centuries of experience of courts in jury trials, and are admirably adapted to avoid the
danger of error as to fact. I fully agree that in American courts the trial judges have not
been entrusted with as wide discretion in the matter of admitting or rejecting evidence as
they should have, and judgments have been reversed on technical errors in admitting testimony
which should have been affirmed. As time goes on, however, the rule against hearsay evidence,
instead of losing its force, is demonstrating its usefulness. The error and injustice that
are committed in the public press by inaccurate, garbled and sometimes false statements of
facts are increased in their injurious effect by the wider publication that newspapers have
today, and the requirement that when a fact is to be proven in court it should be proven by
those who have a personal knowledge of it, is one of the most wholesome and searching tests
of truth that the whole range of adjective law furnishes. The opportunity for cross-examination,
for finding out the bias of the witness, the advantage or disadvantage of his point of observation,
the accuracy or inaccuracy in his recollection of the details of what he saw, are all means
of reaching the real truth that the introduction of hearsay evidence would entirely exclude. 

Trafford 17-- austrian submarine torpedoes and sinks italian submarine Germany, can sustain this being the
captain had given with rule sinking of one british steamer on another; german Admiralty announces
the loss by the submarine crew-14, her U being by the civil; Athens reports that a submarine has sunk
and be torpedoed three british transports, sold of troops, in the Dardanelles above Germany Nagara;
german sinks turkish investigation upon June, crew being saved.
 The shock given to the whole community
of the United States by the character of evidence received to help the court determine the
Dreyfus issue, was itself enough to show that the confidence of the public in the justice of
the rule against hearsay evidence had grown rather than diminished with years.

Yet I am far from saying that we may not have improvement in our laws concerning testimony
in court. The protection of those accused of crime contained in some of our constitutional
restrictions may be too great. The charge against the administration of justice in the present
system is that it is nothing but a game of wits, of cunning, and of concealment, promoted by
the rules of procedure. I think this characterization is most unjust and most unwise because
it aids the attack on a valuable and indispensable institution without suggesting any real
security for such evils and defects as there are. An experience of many years in the trial
of all sorts of causes as lawyer and judge and in framing a judicial system convinces me that
the present method of hearing causes is correct. The enthusiastic advocacy of counsel when
they are properly restrained as above suggested, and the rules of evidence adapted to winnowing
out the false from the true, are admirably adapted to bringing about right results.

It is also asked whether members of the Bar live up to these rules restraining their enthusiasm
and limiting their proper conduct in the advocacy of their clients' causes. One can reply that
counsel differ in that regard, but that generally such rules are fairly well observed. The
earnestness of advocacy often blinds them to the proprieties and the requirements of candor
and fairness. They fall into the same errors that their clients do, though with a better knowledge
of their duties in this regard. They share what has been characteristic of our entire people
in the last two decades. The minds of the great majority have been focused on business success,
on the chase for the dollar, where success seems to have justified some departure from the
strict line of propriety or fairness, so long as it has not brought on criminal prosecution
or public denunciation.

More than this, the tendency of legislatures, too often controlled by lawyers engaged in active
practice, has been to distrust judges and to take away from them the power to control in the
court room, as they do in the English and Federal courts. This has had a tendency to transfer
to counsel greater discretion in respect to their conduct of cases and greater opportunity
to depart from ethical rules with impunity in the somewhat reckless spirit of the times. The
hampered power of the court to prevent the misconduct of counsel in many western states has
not been conducive to certainty of justice nor has it been of a character to strengthen public
confidence in just results. We find the bitterest attacks upon the administration of justice
in those jurisdictions in which the people and the legislatures have themselves laid the foundation
for the very abuses they subsequently criticise by taking away the power of the judge.

CHAPTER III

THE EXECUTIVE POWER

I have been introduced at a great many places by the exuberant chairman of a committee who
referred to the fact that he was about to introduce a gentleman who exercised the greatest
power in the world. While the power of the President may be very great as compared with the
power of rulers of other countries, I can testify that when you are exercising it, you don't
think of its extent so much as you do of its limitations. I think a study of the relative power
of the King of England, the President of France, the Emperor of Germany, the King of Italy,
the Emperor of Austria and the Emperor of Russia might involve a very interesting investigation.
I am not sufficiently familiar with the power of those executive heads to speak on the subject,
though I do know something of the power of the King of England. In England and all of her colonies
they have a so-called responsible government. The English King is said to reign and not to
rule, while the actual ruler is the Premier, who combines executive and legislative power by
virtue of his position as head of the controlling party in Parliament. When the legislative
majority fails him, he goes out of office. It is a government responsible both for legislation
and for executive work.

With us, as you know, the President is a permanent officer for four years. It is quite possible
that he may be elected as President at the same time that a Congress hostile to him is put
into power. Such was the case when Mr. Hayes was elected, and indeed when Mr. Cleveland was
first elected there was a majority against him in the Senate. It happens more frequently, however,
that at the end of two years a majority of the opposing party is elected to a Congress at the
mid-term election. Our method has been criticised as rigid and unresponsive to change in popular
opinion, but I venture to think that it has some advantages over the English one. It may be
good for a country to have an occasional rest from legislation, to let it digest what reformers
have already gotten on its statute book, and the period when the President differs from Congress
offers such an opportunity for test and rest. We have rests in music, which are necessary to
a proper composition, and I do not see why we should not have rests in politics.

