 Warned as we are by
the taunts of European monarchists, and by the mournful example of all the ancient republics,
are we willing to split on the same rock on which we have seen them shipwrecked? Are we willing
to give our enemies such a triumph as to fulfil their prophecy and convince the world that
self-government is impracticable--a mere chimera--and that man is fit only to be a slave to
his fellow man? Are we willing to teach the nations of the earth to despair, and resign themselves
at once to the power that crushes them? Shall we forfeit all the bright honors that we have
hitherto won by our example, and now admit by our conduct, that, although free government may
subsist for a while, under the pressure of extrinsic and momentary causes, yet that it cannot
bear a long season of peace and prosperity; but that as soon as thus left to itself, it speedily
hastens to faction, demoralization, anarchy and ruin? Are we prepared to make this practical
admission by our conduct, and extinguish, ourselves, the sacred light of liberty which has
been entrusted to our keeping? Or, shall we not rather show ourselves worthy of this high trust,
maintain the advanced post which we have hitherto occupied with so much honor, prove, by our
example, that a free government is the best pledge for peace and order and human happiness,
and thus continue to light the other nations of the earth on their way to liberty? Who can
hesitate between these two alternatives? Who that looks upon that monument that decks the Park,
and observes the statue by which it is surmounted, or on this that graces our square, and recalls
the occasion on which it was erected, is willing to admit that men are incapable of self-government,
and unworthy of the blessing of liberty? No man, I am sure, who has an American heart in his bosom.

Away, then, with all faction, strife and uncharitableness from our land. We are brothers. Let
no angry feelings enter our political dwellings. If we differ about measures or about men,
(as, from the constitution of our nature, differ we must,) let us remember that we are all
but fallible men, and extend to others that charity of which the best of us cannot but feel
that we stand in need. We owe this good temper and indulgence to each other as members of the
same family, as all interested, and deeply interested, in the preservation of the Union and
of our political institutions: and we owe it to the world as the van-couriers of free government
on earth, and the guardians of the first altar that has been erected to Liberty in modern times.
In the casual differences of opinion that must, from time to time, be expected to arise among
us, it is natural that each should think himself right. But let us be content to make that
right appear by calm and respectful reasoning. Truth does not require the torch of discord
to light her steps. Its flickering and baleful glare can only disturb her course. Her best
light is her own pure and native lustre. Measures never lose any thing of their firmness by
their moderation. They win their way as much by the candor and kindness with which they are
conducted, as by their intrinsic rectitude.

Friends and fellow-citizens, "our lines have fallen to us in pleasant places: yea, we have
a goodly heritage." Let us not mar it by vindictive altercations among ourselves, and offend
the shades of our departed fathers who left this rich inheritance to us. Let us not tinge with
shame and sorrow, the venerable cheek of the last surviving signer of the Declaration of our
Independence, whom heaven still spares to our respect and affections. Let us not disappoint
the world which still looks to us for a bright example, and is manifestly preparing to follow
our steps. Let us not offend that Almighty Being who gave us all these blessings, and who has
a right to expect that we will enjoy them in peace and brotherly love. It is His will that
we should so enjoy them; and may His will be done.

ADDRESS

OF

THE CITIZENS OF BALTIMORE

TO

THE PEOPLE OF FRANCE.

FRIENDS AND ANCIENT ALLIES:

We, the people of Baltimore, in Convention assembled, do, with unqualified satisfaction, tender
you our heartfelt congratulations, on the late glorious assertion of your undoubted rights.
When we behold the many and severe trials through which you have passed, we cannot but express
our joy, that your liberty is now fixed on a firm, and, as we ardently hope, an enduring basis.
We must ever bear in vivid recollection, the efficacious assistance you so liberally extended
to us in our day of peril. The blood and the treasure of France flowed freely in our cause.
Under circumstances of great national difficulty you alone, among the nations of the world,
interposed your shield for our protection. Frenchmen and Americans fought side by side in the
holy contest for freedom; and variant as were their habits, religion, manners, and language,
it is nevertheless true, that not a solitary instance of discord disturbed the harmony of the
two people. The most exemplary citizen of America did not render more absolute submission to
the laws, and to the civil authority, than did the gallant and devoted soldier of France. Such
are the noble inspirations of liberty! These recollections are cherished with gratitude, and
will be faithfully transmitted to millions of unborn Americans. To Heaven, to France, and to
the stout hearts of our ancestors, are we indebted for all that man should most highly prize.
And we rejoice that our ancient and faithful allies have triumphed over tyranny, have asserted
their unalienable rights, and themselves ordained their great charter of government. We rejoice
that this triumph has been accomplished with that mild and chastened spirit becoming the age,
and peculiar to advanced civilization. No excess, no absence of moderation, no intemperate
ardor nor vengeful aspirations. In this sublime display of courage and of humanity, of victory
and of forbearance united, Americans are delighted to see the hand, and to recognize the benevolent
spirit of the great and good LAFAYETTE, to whom the hearts of the people of Baltimore are bound
by so many indissoluble and grateful associations. History affords no brighter example of cool
and philosophic expression of matured thought, and of determined yet temperate action. The
omen is most propitious, and a people so actuated must enjoy ages of that liberty they have
so dearly yet so nobly achieved. That this brilliant omen may be carried out into happy reality,
through all courses of time, is our sincere wish, and our most earnest supplication to HIM
who holds the destinies of nations in his hand.

SAMUEL SMITH, Chairman.

JOHN S. SKINNER, Sec'ry.

'Bastille' is spelled both 'Bastile' and 'bastile' in this text, matching the original document.

The following changes have been made to the text:

  Page 5: Added missing period (Jewellers and Silversmiths.)

  Page 7: Added missing comma (A. M., the right of the line)

  Page 7: Added missing comma (JAMES BIAYS, JR.,)

  Page 24: Changed 'enterprize' to 'enterprise' for consistency
  with other cases in the address (the enterprise, and the value)

  Page 25: Changed 'recognise' to 'recognize' for consistency
  with other cases in the address (proper to recognize)

  Page 39: Changed 'his' to 'His' for consistency with other
  references to an Almighty Being (may His will be done)