On the northern shore of Sicily are still to be seen the magnificent remains of a castle, which
formerly belonged to the noble house of Mazzini. It stands in the centre of a small bay, and
upon a gentle acclivity, which, on one side, slopes towards the sea, and on the other rises
into an eminence crowned by dark woods. The situation is admirably beautiful and picturesque,
and the ruins have an air of ancient grandeur, which, contrasted with the present solitude
of the scene, impresses the traveller with awe and curiosity. During my travels abroad I visited
this spot. As I walked over the loose fragments of stone, which lay scattered through the immense
area of the fabrick, and surveyed the sublimity and grandeur of the ruins, I recurred, by a
natural association of ideas, to the times when these walls stood proudly in their original
splendour, when the halls were the scenes of hospitality and festive magnificence, and when
they resounded with the voices of those whom death had long since swept from the earth. 'Thus,'
said I, 'shall the present generation--he who now sinks in misery--and he who now swims in
pleasure, alike pass away and be forgotten.' My heart swelled with the reflection; and, as
I turned from the scene with a sigh, I fixed my eyes upon a friar, whose venerable figure,
gently bending towards the earth, formed no uninteresting object in the picture. He observed
my emotion; and, as my eye met his, shook his head and pointed to the ruin. 'These walls,'
said he, 'were once the seat of luxury and vice. They exhibited a singular instance of the
retribution of Heaven, and were from that period forsaken, and abandoned to decay.' His words
excited my curiosity, and I enquired further concerning their meaning.

'A solemn history belongs to this castle, said he, 'which is too long and intricate for me
to relate. It is, however, contained in a manuscript in our library, of which I could, perhaps,
procure you a sight. A brother of our order, a descendant of the noble house of Mazzini, collected
and recorded the most striking incidents relating to his family, and the history thus formed,
he left as a legacy to our convent. If you please, we will walk thither.'

I accompanied him to the convent, and the friar introduced me to his superior, a man of an
intelligent mind and benevolent heart, with whom I passed some hours in interesting conversation.
I believe my sentiments pleased him; for, by his indulgence, I was permitted to take abstracts
of the history before me, which, with some further particulars obtained in conversation with
the abate, I have arranged in the following pages.

CHAPTER I

Towards the close of the sixteenth century, this castle was in the possession of Ferdinand,
fifth marquis of Mazzini, and was for some years the principal residence of his family. He
was a man of a voluptuous and imperious character. To his first wife, he married Louisa Bernini,
second daughter of the Count della Salario, a lady yet more distinguished for the sweetness
of her manners and the gentleness of her disposition, than for her beauty. She brought the
marquis one son and two daughters, who lost their amiable mother in early childhood. The arrogant
and impetuous character of the marquis operated powerfully upon the mild and susceptible nature
of his lady: and it was by many persons believed, that his unkindness and neglect put a period
to her life. However this might be, he soon afterwards married Maria de Vellorno, a young lady
eminently beautiful, but of a character very opposite to that of her predecessor. She was a
woman of infinite art, devoted to pleasure, and of an unconquerable spirit. The marquis, whose
heart was dead to paternal tenderness, and whose present lady was too volatile to attend to
domestic concerns, committed the education of his daughters to the care of a lady, completely
qualified for the undertaking, and who was distantly related to the late marchioness.

He quitted Mazzini soon after his second marriage, for the gaieties and splendour of Naples,
whither his son accompanied him. Though naturally of a haughty and overbearing disposition,
he was governed by his wife. His passions were vehement, and she had the address to bend them
to her own purpose; and so well to conceal her influence, that he thought himself most independent
when he was most enslaved. He paid an annual visit to the castle of Mazzini; but the marchioness
seldom attended him, and he staid only to give such general directions concerning the education
of his daughters, as his pride, rather than his affection, seemed to dictate.

Emilia, the elder, inherited much of her mother's disposition. She had a mild and sweet temper,
united with a clear and comprehensive mind. Her younger sister, Julia, was of a more lively
cast. An extreme sensibility subjected her to frequent uneasiness; her temper was warm, but
generous; she was quickly irritated, and quickly appeased; and to a reproof, however gentle,
she would often weep, but was never sullen. Her imagination was ardent, and her mind early
exhibited symptoms of genius. It was the particular care of Madame de Menon to counteract those
traits in the disposition of her young pupils, which appeared inimical to their future happiness;
and for this task she had abilities which entitled her to hope for success. A series of early
misfortunes had entendered her heart, without weakening the powers of her understanding. In
retirement she had acquired tranquillity, and had almost lost the consciousness of those sorrows
which yet threw a soft and not unpleasing shade over her character. She loved her young charge
with maternal fondness, and their gradual improvement and respectful tenderness repaid all
her anxiety. Madame excelled in music and drawing. She had often forgot her sorrows in these
amusements, when her mind was too much occupied to derive consolation from books, and she was
assiduous to impart to Emilia and Julia a power so valuable as that of beguiling the sense
of affliction. Emilia's taste led her to drawing, and she soon made rapid advances in that
art. Julia was uncommonly susceptible of the charms of harmony. She had feelings which trembled
in unison to all its various and enchanting powers.

The instructions of madame she caught with astonishing quickness, and in a short time attained
to a degree of excellence in her favorite study, which few persons have ever exceeded. Her
manner was entirely her own. It was not in the rapid intricacies of execution, that she excelled
so much in as in that delicacy of taste, and in those enchanting powers of expression, which
seem to breathe a soul through the sound, and which take captive the heart of the hearer. The
lute was her favorite instrument, and its tender notes accorded well with the sweet and melting
tones of her voice.

