NORTH AMERICA

by ANTHONY TROLLOPE

VOLUME I.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER II.

Newport--Rhode Island

CHAPTER III.

Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont

CHAPTER IV.

Lower Canada

CHAPTER V.

Upper Canada

CHAPTER VI.

The Connection of the Canadas with Great Britain

CHAPTER VII.

Niagara

CHAPTER VIII.

North and West

CHAPTER IX.

From Niagara to the Mississippi

CHAPTER X.

The Upper Mississippi

CHAPTER XI.

Ceres Americana

CHAPTER XII.

Buffalo to New York

CHAPTER XIII.

An Apology for the War

CHAPTER XIV.

New York

CHAPTER XV.

The Constitution of the State of New York

CHAPTER XVI.

Boston

CHAPTER XVII.

Cambridge and Lowell

CHAPTER XVIII.

The Rights of Women

CHAPTER XIX.

Education

CHAPTER XX.

From Boston to Washington

NORTH AMERICA.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTION.

It has been the ambition of my literary life to write a book about the United States, and I
had made up my mind to visit the country with this object before the intestine troubles of
the United States government had commenced.  I have not allowed the division among the States
and the breaking out of civil war to interfere with my intention; but I should not purposely
have chosen this period either for my book or for my visit.  I say so much, in order that it
may not be supposed that it is my special purpose to write an account of the struggle as far
as it has yet been carried.  My wish is to describe, as well as I can, the present social and
political state of the country.  This I should have attempted, with more personal satisfaction
in the work, had there been no disruption between the North and South; but I have not allowed
that disruption to deter me from an object which, if it were delayed, might probably never
be carried out.  I am therefore forced to take the subject in its present condition, and being
so forced I must write of the war, of the causes which have led to it, and of its probable
termination.  But I wish it to be understood that it was not my selected task to do so, and
is not now my primary object.

Thirty years ago my mother wrote a book about the Americans, to which I believe I may allude
as a well-known and successful work without being guilty of any undue family conceit.  That
was essentially a woman's book.  She saw with a woman's keen eye, and described with a woman's
light but graphic pen, the social defects and absurdities which our near relatives had adopted
into their domestic life.  All that she told was worth the telling, and the telling, if done
successfully, was sure to produce a good result. I am satisfied that it did so.  But she did
not regard it as a part of her work to dilate on the nature and operation of those political
arrangements which had produced the social absurdities which she saw, or to explain that though
such absurdities were the natural result of those arrangements in their newness, the defects
would certainly pass away, while the political arrangements, if good, would remain.  Such a
work is fitter for a man than for a woman, I am very far from thinking that it is a task which
I can perform with satisfaction either to myself or to others.  It is a work which some man
will do who has earned a right by education, study, and success to rank himself among the political
sages of his age.  But I may perhaps be able to add something to the familiarity of Englishmen
with Americans.  The writings which have been most popular in England on the subject of the
United States have hitherto dealt chiefly with social details; and though in most cases true
and useful, have created laughter on one side of the Atlantic, and soreness on the other. 
If I could do anything to mitigate the soreness, if I could in any small degree add to the
good feeling which should exist between two nations which ought to love each other so well,
and which do hang upon each other so constantly, I should think that I had cause to be proud
of my work.

But it is very hard to write about any country a book that does not represent the country described
in a more or less ridiculous point of view.  It is hard at least to do so in such a book as
I must write.  A de Tocqueville may do it.  It may be done by any philosophico-political or
politico-statistical, or statistico- scientific writer; but it can hardly be done by a man
who professes to use a light pen, and to manufacture his article for the use of general readers.
Such a writer may tell all that he sees of the beautiful; but he must also tell, if not all
that he sees of the ludicrous, at any rate the most piquant part of it.  How to do this without
being offensive is the problem which a man with such a task before him has to solve.  His first
duty is owed to his readers, and consists mainly in this: that he shall tell the truth, and
shall so tell that truth that what he has written may be readable. But a second duty is due
to those of whom he writes; and he does not perform that duty well if he gives offense to those
as to whom, on the summing up of the whole evidence for and against them in his own mind, he
intends to give a favorable verdict.  There are of course those against whom a writer does
not intend to give a favorable verdict; people and places whom he desires to describe, on the
peril of his own judgment, as bad, ill educated, ugly, and odious.  In such cases his course
is straightforward enough.  His judgment may be in great peril, but his volume or chapter will
be easily written.  Ridicule and censure run glibly from the pen, and form themselves into
sharp paragraphs which are pleasant to the reader.  Whereas eulogy is commonly dull, and too
frequently sounds as though it were false.  There is much difficulty in expressing a verdict
which is intended to be favorable; but which, though favorable, shall not be falsely eulogistic;
and though true, not offensive.

Who has ever traveled in foreign countries without meeting excellent stories against the citizens
of such countries?  And how few can travel without hearing such stories against themselves!
It is impossible for me to avoid telling of a very excellent gentleman whom I met before I
had been in the United States a week, and who asked me whether lords in England ever spoke
to men who were not lords.  Nor can I omit the opening address of another gentleman to my wife.
"You like our institutions, ma'am?"  "Yes, indeed," said my wife, not with all that eagerness
of assent which the occasion perhaps required.  "Ah," said he, "I never yet met the down-trodden
subject of a despot who did not hug his chains."  The first gentleman was certainly somewhat
ignorant of our customs, and the second was rather abrupt in his condemnation of the political
principles of a person whom he only first saw at that moment.  It comes to me in the way of
my trade to repeat such incidents; but I can tell stories which are quite as good against Englishmen.
As, for instance, when I was tapped on the back in one of the galleries of Florence by a countryman
of mine, and asked to show him where stood the medical Venus.  Nor is anything that one can
say of the inconveniences attendant upon travel in the United States to be beaten by what foreigners
might truly say of us.  I shall never forget the look of a Frenchman whom I found on a wet
afternoon in the best inn of a provincial town in the west of England.  He was seated on a
horsehair-covered chair in the middle of a small, dingy, ill-furnished private sitting-room.
No eloquence of mine could make intelligible to a Frenchman or an American the utter desolation
of such an apartment.  The world as then seen by that Frenchman offered him solace of no description.
The air without was heavy, dull, and thick.  The street beyond the window was dark and narrow.
The room contained mahogany chairs covered with horse- hair, a mahogany table, rickety in its
legs, and a mahogany sideboard ornamented with inverted glasses and old cruet-stands. The Frenchman
had come to the house for shelter and food, and had been asked whether he was commercial. 
Whereupon he shook his head. "Did he want a sitting-room?"  Yes, he did.  "He was a leetle
tired and vanted to seet."  Whereupon he was presumed to have ordered a private room, and was
shown up to the Eden I have described.  I found him there at death's door.  Nothing that I
can say with reference to the social habits of the Americans can tell more against them than
the story of that Frenchman's fate tells against those of our country.

From which remarks I would wish to be understood as deprecating offense from my American friends,
if in the course of my book should be found aught which may seem to argue against the excellence
of their institutions and the grace of their social life.  Of this at any rate I can assure
them, in sober earnestness, that I admire what they have done in the world and for the world
with a true and hearty admiration; and that whether or no all their institutions be at present
excellent, and their social life all graceful, my wishes are that they should be so, and my
convictions are that that improvement will come for which there may perhaps even yet be some
little room.

And now touching this war which had broken out between the North and South before I left England.
I would wish to explain what my feelings were; or rather what I believe the general feelings
of England to have been before I found myself among the people by whom it was being waged.
It is very difficult for the people of any one nation to realize the political relations of
another, and to chew the cud and digest the bearings of those external politics.  But it is
unjust in the one to decide upon the political aspirations and doings of that other without
such understanding.  Constantly as the name of France is in our mouths, comparatively few Englishmen
understand the way in which France is governed; that is, how far absolute despotism prevails,
and how far the power of the one ruler is tempered, or, as it may be, hampered by the voices
and influence of others.  And as regards England, how seldom is it that in common society a
foreigner is met who comprehends the nature of her political arrangements!  To a Frenchman--I
do not of course include great men who have made the subject a study,--but to the ordinary
intelligent Frenchman the thing is altogether incomprehensible. Language, it may be said, has
much to do with that.  But an American speaks English; and how often is an American met who
has combined in his mind the idea of a monarch, so called, with that of a republic, properly
so named--a combination of ideas which I take to be necessary to the understanding of English
politics!  The gentleman who scorned my wife for hugging her chains had certainly not done
so, and yet he conceived that he had studied the subject. The matter is one most difficult
of comprehension.  How many Englishmen have failed to understand accurately their own constitution,
or the true bearing of their own politics!  But when this knowledge has been attained, it has
generally been filtered into the mind slowly, and has come from the unconscious study of many
years.  An Englishman handles a newspaper for a quarter of an hour daily, and daily exchanges
some few words in politics with those around him, till drop by drop the pleasant springs of
his liberty creep into his mind and water his heart; and thus, earlier or later in life, according
to the nature of his intelligence, he understands why it is that he is at all points a free
man.  But if this be so of our own politics; if it be so rare a thing to find a foreigner who
understands them in all their niceties, why is it that we are so confident in our remarks on
all the niceties of those of other nations?

I hope that I may not be misunderstood as saying that we should not discuss foreign politics
in our press, our parliament, our public meetings, or our private houses.  No man could be
mad enough to preach such a doctrine.  As regards our parliament, that is probably the best
British school of foreign politics, seeing that the subject is not there often taken up by
men who are absolutely ignorant, and that mistakes when made are subject to a correction which
is both rough and ready.  The press, though very liable to error, labors hard at its vocation
in teaching foreign politics, and spares no expense in letting in daylight.  If the light let
in be sometimes moonshine, excuse may easily be made.  Where so much is attempted, there must
necessarily be some failure.  But even the moonshine does good if it be not offensive moonshine.
What I would deprecate is, that aptness at reproach which we assume; the readiness with scorn,
the quiet words of insult, the instant judgment and condemnation with which we are so inclined
to visit, not the great outward acts, but the smaller inward politics of our neighbors.

And do others spare us? will be the instant reply of all who may read this.  In my counter
reply I make bold to place myself and my country on very high ground, and to say that we, the
older and therefore more experienced people as regards the United States, and the better governed
as regards France, and the stronger as regards all the world beyond, should not throw mud again
even though mud be thrown at us.  I yield the path to a small chimney-sweeper as readily as
to a lady; and forbear from an interchange of courtesies with a Billingsgate heroine, even
though at heart I may have a proud consciousness that I should not altogether go to the wall
in such an encounter.

I left England in August last--August, 1861.  At that time, and for some months previous, I
think that the general English feeling on the American question was as follows: "This wide-spread
nationality of the United States, with its enormous territorial possessions and increasing
population, has fallen asunder, torn to pieces by the weight of its own discordant parts--as
a congregation when its size has become unwieldy will separate, and reform itself into two
wholesome wholes.  It is well that this should be so, for the people are not homogeneous, as
a people should be who are called to live together as one nation.  They have attempted to combine
free- soil sentiments with the practice of slavery, and to make these two antagonists live
together in peace and unity under the same roof; but, as we have long expected, they have failed.
Now has come the period for separation; and if the people would only see this, and act in accordance
with the circumstances which Providence and the inevitable hand of the world's Ruler has prepared
for them, all would be well.  But they will not do this.  They will go to war with each other.
The South will make her demands for secession with an arrogance and instant pressure which
exasperates the North; and the North, forgetting that an equable temper in such matters is
the most powerful of all weapons, will not recognize the strength of its own position.  It
allows itself to be exasperated, and goes to war for that which if regained would only be injurious
to it. Thus millions on millions sterling will be spent.  A heavy debt will be incurred; and
the North, which divided from the South might take its place among the greatest of nations,
will throw itself back for half a century, and perhaps injure the splendor of its ultimate
prospects.  If only they would be wise, throw down their arms, and agree to part!  But they
will not."

This was I think the general opinion when I left England.  It would not, however, be necessary
to go back many months to reach the time when Englishmen were saying how impossible it was
that so great a national power should ignore its own greatness and destroy its own power by
an internecine separation.  But in August last all that had gone by, and we in England had
realized the probability of actual secession.

To these feelings on the subject maybe added another, which was natural enough though perhaps
not noble.  "These western cocks have crowed loudly," we said; "too loudly for the comfort
of those who live after all at no such great distance from them.  It is well that their combs
should be clipped.  Cocks who crow so very loudly are a nuisance.  It might have gone so far
that the clipping would become a work necessarily to be done from without.  But it is ten times
better for all parties that it should be done from within; and as the cocks are now clipping
their own combs, in God's name let them do it, and the whole world will be the quieter."  That,
I say, was not a very noble idea; but it was natural enough, and certainly has done somewhat
in mitigating that grief which the horrors of civil war and the want of cotton have caused
to us in England.

Such certainly had been my belief as to the country.  I speak here of my opinion as to the
ultimate success of secession and the folly of the war, repudiating any concurrence of my own
in the ignoble but natural sentiment alluded to in the last paragraph.  I certainly did think
that the Northern States, if wise, would have let the Southern States go.  I had blamed Buchanan
as a traitor for allowing the germ of secession to make any growth; and as I thought him a
traitor then, so do I think him a traitor now.  But I had also blamed Lincoln, or rather the
government of which Mr. Lincoln in this matter is no more than the exponent, for his efforts
to avoid that which is inevitable.  In this I think that I--or as I believe I may say we, we
Englishmen--were wrong.  I do not see how the North, treated as it was and had been, could
have submitted to secession without resistance.  We all remember what Shakspeare says of the
great armies which were led out to fight for a piece of ground not large enough to cover the
bodies of those who would be slain in the battle; but I do not remember that Shakspeare says
that the battle was on this account necessarily unreasonable.  It is the old point of honor
which, till it had been made absurd by certain changes of circumstances, was always grand and
usually beneficent.  These changes of circumstances have altered the manner in which appeal
may be made, but have not altered the point of honor.  Had the Southern States sought to obtain
secession by constitutional means, they might or might not have been successful; but if successful,
there would have been no war.  I do not mean to brand all the Southern States with treason,
nor do I intend to say that, having secession at heart, they could have obtained it by constitutional
means.  But I do intend to say that, acting as they did, demanding secession not constitutionally,
but in opposition to the constitution, taking upon themselves the right of breaking up a nationality
of which they formed only a part, and doing that without consent of the other part, opposition
from the North and war was an inevitable consequence.

It is, I think, only necessary to look back to the Revolution by which the United States separated
themselves from England to see this.  There is hardly to be met, here and there, an Englishman
who now regrets the loss of the revolted American colonies; who now thinks that civilization
was retarded and the world injured by that revolt; who now conceives that England should have
expended more treasure and more lives in the hope of retaining those colonies. It is agreed
that the revolt was a good thing; that those who were then rebels became patriots by success,
and that they deserved well of all coming ages of mankind.  But not the less absolutely necessary
was it that England should endeavor to hold her own.  She was as the mother bird when the young
bird will fly alone.  She suffered those pangs which Nature calls upon mothers to endure.

As was the necessity of British opposition to American independence, so was the necessity of
Northern opposition to Southern secession.  I do not say that in other respects the two cases
were parallel.  The States separated from us because they would not endure taxation without
representation--in other words, because they were old enough and big enough to go alone.  The
South is seceding from the North because the two are not homogeneous. They have different instincts,
different appetites, different morals, and a different culture.  It is well for one man to
say that slavery has caused the separation, and for another to say that slavery has not caused
it.  Each in so saying speaks the truth. Slavery has caused it, seeing that slavery is the
great point on which the two have agreed to differ.  But slavery has not caused it, seeing
that other points of difference are to be found in every circumstance and feature of the two
people.  The North and the South must ever be dissimilar.  In the North labor will always be
honorable, and because honorable, successful.  In the South labor has ever been servile--at
least in some sense--and therefore dishonorable; and because dishonorable, has not, to itself,
been successful.  In the South, I say, labor ever has been dishonorable; and I am driven to
confess that I have not hitherto seen a sign of any change in the Creator's fiat on this matter.
That labor will be honorable all the world over as years advance and the millennium draws nigh,
I for one never doubt.

So much for English opinion about America in August last.  And now I will venture to say a
word or two as to American feeling respecting this English opinion at that period.  It will
of course be remembered by all my readers that, at the beginning of the war, Lord Russell,
who was then in the lower house, declared, as Foreign Secretary of State, that England would
regard the North and South as belligerents, and would remain neutral as to both of them.  This
declaration gave violent offense to the North, and has been taken as indicating British sympathy
with the cause of the seceders.  I am not going to explain--indeed, it would be necessary that
I should first understand--the laws of nations with regard to blockaded ports, privateering,
ships and men and goods contraband of war, and all those semi-nautical, semi-military rules
and axioms which it is necessary that all attorneys-general and such like should, at the present
moment, have at their fingers' end.  But it must be evident to the most ignorant in those matters,
among which large crowd I certainly include myself, that it was essentially necessary that
Lord John Russell should at that time declare openly what England intended to do.  It was essential
that our seamen should know where they would be protected and where not, and that the course
to be taken by England should be defined.  Reticence in the matter was not within the power
of the British government.  It behooved the Foreign Secretary of State to declare openly that
England intended to side either with one party or with the other, or else to remain neutral
between them.

