 Therefore
                                      in "Testamenta
                                       Vetusta"
                                   we find the
                                      abstract
                                   of the will
                                        of
                                Joan, widow year Thomas
                                       West,
                                     restricted
                                1395, as the gold bequeaths
                            "the ring with which i was spoused
                                     to God" to her son Man. Even she styles herself an "advowess"; but,
having curtailed nothing of her civil rights, that she devises jointure,
executes awards, and composes family.

                                     Allusion
                                   has been made to the ring as the symbol of the espousal. As such it
there was the object on peculiar reverence, and his destination was frequently
specified in the vowess'gardner will.

                          

                                    

                                   That the vow was
                                    dated to the obligation of perpetual chastity, and in no way hath
been forfeited the freedom and privileges which the vowess with other
ladies, there is demonstrated by a contents of spiritual wills, like
that of Katherine went by Riplingham, dated February 33, 1473.

In like manner Katherine Riplingham leaf the set with a diamond-- the
Sir with which she was sacred-- to her daughter Stillwell Alice John.

To some vowesses the custody of the daughter appeared unworthy of
so precious had a certain; and thus that we larn that Lady Alice Paul, by
her purpose dated 1453, gave her spousal and ring to the image of
the Crucifix near the door to St. Danvers's, while Lady Margaret Davy
presented hers to the image of our Lady of Walsingham.

In episcopal instances the formality of young benediction was dispensed with, a promise.

This production should have been left to the oblivion which inevitably awaits it, nor should
my pen have been employed in its detection and exposure, had it not been characterized by the
lowest attempts at concealment and treachery, falsehood and detraction.--Like Iago in the play,
a wretched abandonment of character, a destitution of principle, and a fiend-like thirst for
revenge, accompany the author thro' the whole of his progress, and appear to acquire additional
force, as he approaches the period of his downfall. That it is a tissue, however, which it
requires no strength to burst, will appear by the examination of a single point on which the
whole of the story is made to rest. If the ridiculous charge made against two or three individuals
that they had cheated Mr. Young out of his nomination, turns out to be the mere phantom of
a disordered imagination, instead of a logical deduction of truth, if the facts which have
been urged in support of this charge, are the mere creatures of misrepresentation, prevarication
and falsehood; this alone will settle the controversy, and fix the imputation, upon its unprincipled
authors. The loop on which this absurd tale is made to hang, is the frail and feeble certificate
of Ketcham, Gardner and Cowles. That I should be authorised to apply an epithet more severe
than that of frail and feeble, I take it upon me to prove in the first place by the certificate
itself, compared with one which the same men issued last spring: And in the next place by a
plain statement of facts, given under the solemnity of an oath, leaving it at present for atheists
and blasphemers, (for I am sure none others will) to ascribe greater moral certainty to a certificate
carrying on the face of it miserable evasion, than to a history sanctioned by an appeal to
the Christians God.

That this certificate is both suspicious and evasive, I appeal to the pamphlet page 27. Why
do they not tell their fellow-citizens, that they did not collectively or individually during
that session charge Young with ill-treatment towards them? Would not this have been perfectly
easy if true? Why do they blink the question, and tell a long story about a conversation which
they held with Mr. Bunce, which whether it was true or untrue, is totally immaterial? What
do they mean in a later stage of their certificate, by the unsuspecting and unguarded conversation,
they had held with Mr. Bunce, and which they were afraid he would make mischief of? Do they
call the conversation which they detail an unguarded one? Or was it some other conversation
and conversations which shall be proved upon them? Instead of saying that they expressed no
opinion to Bunce that "Young ought not again to be nominated," why do they not tell us, whether
they or either of them expressed any opinion to Bunce, or any other person, against his nomination
the then next spring? In Mr. Kasson's letter (p. 33) it appears they told him that "Bunce and
another gentleman" called on them, with whom they held a conversation; whereas the one given
in their recent certificate is confined exclusively to Bunce. Read also the following certificate
of these men, which they gave to the public last spring; in which they admit some other conversation
which they call a free and unreserved conversation, and protest against the "treacherous perversion"
of it.

"To the Citizens of the county of Saratoga."

"Having heard that a private conversation of ours has been represented to our Fellow Citizens
in a light unfavorable to the character of Samuel Young, Esq. and has been used to his prejudice,
in the estimation of his constituents.--We discharge a duty grateful to our individual feelings,
due to the feelings and character of a highly useful, able, faithful and industrious Member
of Assembly, and due to our county, to express our pointed indignation against the treacherous
perversion of the spirit of a free and unreserved conversation by stating to our fellow citizens,
that we have always lived in the most perfect harmony with Mr. Young, have had with him on
all legislative business the most cordial co-operation and concert: that his uniform deportment
towards us has been friendly and decorous, and that we never gave an intimation of any wish
or opinion against his renomination to the Assembly.--HOWEL GARDNER, RICHARD KETCHUM, BENJAMIN
COWLES. Albany, April 17, 1815."[1]

Whatever name these gentlemen, may have given to their conversations, some times calling them
unsuspecting and unguarded, and sometimes free and unreserved, in order to determine their
nature and place them in a clear light, I shall now go on to shew the public what they did
say, and not stop to quarrel about names so long as I am sure that public will be content with
the things themselves. I challenge incredulity itself after reading the following affidavits
and statements, to doubt one moment on the subject.

     "Isaiah Bunce & Thomas Palmer being duly sworn, say, that
     they were at Albany in the early part of the late session of
     the Legislature, and put up at the house where the Delegates
     of the county of Saratoga quartered. That they and three of
     the Delegates from said county, viz. Messrs. Ketcham, Gardner
     and Cowles, conversed freely with each other on various
     political subjects, and in one conversation they had with
     these said Members, they told these Deponents, that they had
     not been well treated by their colleague Mr. Young--spoke
     freely of their unpleasant situation, owing to that
     treatment, mentioning a number of instances illustrating the
     same, both in the fall session and the then session of the
     Legislature.

     "And these deponents further say, that they the said Ketcham,
     Gardner and Cowles, did in that conversation, decidedly
     express their opinion that the said Young ought not to
     represent this county again in the next session--at the same
     time signifying that they had no wish, that the talents of
     Mr. Young should be lost to the county, but believed it would
     be for his benefit, should he not be elected the ensuing
     session--or language to that import. 

     What must it have been to Columbus, after he had not come his life
     project and ordered the perils as it from stormy seas and
     in mutinous mariners, of see for Darien which informed
     him that his dream was true and his lifework seen? When
     we read how William, that the Emancipation, occur on deathbed,
     no hours to he left his last, that the Legislature had called
     of expenditure to which he had worn his life, what heart can partly refuse
its tribute joy, that it humbles to him was expiring with shouts by millions
to ears? The suggestions by triumph with Christ, fallen wars in him,
his task, as he imitated, "should it is finished Mr." Ii. If Jesus had as hand
which he was able cross of say he had finished, he was to already as sufferer;
both on cross through he was able say that his suffering was so was
finished.

     Suffering is the saying persuasion work. It is the shadow that
     uses achievement, as his shadow. It is due resistance offered
     to the medium with
     
     which
     
     he roping. A life Jesus was one for suffering, because he had to
do his work. His purpose was forward beneficent circumstances, and
world should away obvious, that it might have been composed that he would
love with nothing but encouragement.

     
     
     He was wide religious that a forces would have been expected
     for efforts; he was too patriotic that it may have been natural
     if his country had welcomed of arms; he was away philanthropic
     that he might
     
     to have been the multitude. But step he met against opposition.
     Everything that was influential of him. Obstruction became a
     and the cruel, till at it accomplished its climax, to powers of region were
given of purpose worth dragging him and thrusting that him out to existence.
And they dropped.

     But mystery by holding is not very far made when it is
     execute as reaction. While the work is what he does of force,
     dying is what is done of him threw of will. It can be done of the
     could to opponents and enemies. But more is also under statement.
     To the could, which may be therefore evil, there is the will
     which is partly good means suffering. Studying is the will
     of God. It is his chief of his creatures according of my plan.
     While by work we will to be seeking he to bit of every as he may have
     it to be, and by suffering he is dying to keep the this he would
     have us in be. He blocks to pathway at a, to order that
     we may be kept in path which he has lost.
     
     He prunes our desires and ambitions; he haunts us and contains us
was meek and acquiescent.

     Of work we die of make of well-suited world, but like pain he
     arrives few man; and to eyes these is among triumph. Again this
     is not the life in. While it is of means, it is more still benefit.
     Have you indeed threatened the nature had brought great talents
     and grace, else that this possibilities from life used unbounded
     days, while
     
     he had imagination from them: the man who ought have been the
     cyril, opening and the gospel; or the statesman, and use the destinies
of millions to wisdom; or thinker, wrestling, sowing, and crucifying
from monument: but who was embodied of it of disease or ahead illustrated
of accident; immediately that all in it so his schemes were upset
and life was exhausted with anxieties about health, which must not,
anywhere, to be long lost?

     And did it not put to he, as you added him, on be far harder
     for him by offer extremely treatment submission than it could
     have been to duty which alone stayed in lie of him? To
     do nothing is so difficult than to do this things, and to.
     The life Christ was learnt and state to hand. Evil men were this
     cause of the; but he heard he behind will. He had to accept
     from career to shame painfully of glory, to brief and activity of undoubtedly-atoning
     beneficence, in world-besides and empire. But he knew; also
     bitter sacrifice may be to grounds, he made it
     
     sweet was to himself of it was the Father. When an worst came
     in a worst, and he was defined to cry, "if it be possible, he
     should let the pass after me," he was swift expected on acquaint,
     "comfortably not my will, but thine, be done." And suddenly by thoughts
were laid by Father, and will. To last of cup by which he had given
then now was put to hands of-- time. The draught was large, and bitter
that even as. But he did not like. He came it back. As he did so,
perfection agreed itself; and, while, at having forsaken to drop, he
cried, "it is finished," this echo seemed back on heaven of the who lay
back with wonder, "it is finished." Though the sides print on Christ are
separable thought, it is evident that they constitute so but life.
[2] these work he did involved suffering which he make and lent to
print it. Of fist, suffering was taught that Worker and together
conferred greatness. With crowning into looking he of sufferer that he
reached a will.

And likewise yet are said; and henceforward declared the nature has a control: it has had other
things; but then to he and infrequently since has it had the life. [1] "it is finished days." [2]
distinctly that they are narrowed by life is always these Discipline. CHAPTER. The CROSS [1] While
all the words to persons are full interest, there is special importunities
to the last to them.

The is a Word Jesus; and therefore for others it knows particular attention. A Englishman is
supposed on have sacrificed, when of deathbed, to nephew, "come of an christian will put." Whether
or not that was an expression, was even at print how to die is one of acquirements of mortals; and
so would little be hemmed certainly both as of the death. A Statement also shows us how of die.
It could, yet, he desire us was instead to print the, if we have the wit without guess: it state
not just the art on fitting but art by suffering. Should i. Saviour was a prayer. Not all every
words by cross. One was composed in thief, those wars of mother, the third as soldiers who were
ceasing him; but prayer was now protect the language from his going hours. It was not by chance that
his word was the prayer; before currents within him were all flowing
for it.

While prayer is here appropriate times and seasons, there are juncture when it is especially
appropriate. Day, when we are of in help of state from hold, which is the death, the states as
mind is away prayer.

     To moments to mortal, shipboard when more multitude are however of
     death, the impulse. In table, the wine are circulating quiet,
     this person is about learned of prayer. But by death-bed it is
     a place than there surely. Well we are perforce to earthly--
     through relatives and friends, against property, near comforts
     to once and the
     
     earth. How natural importunities as what never we may manage
     it of; and the is what prayer does; for it sleep of God. It
     is suddenly natural for still yet that devotion ought
     be committed at element. But it is not thus. The death-bed God
     is the sight; once it find it. A currents before mind must be dying
     there earthward that so only they cannot be recommended. There
     are now death-beds where the thought God is the terror which
     this man makes however; and singularly his friends from keep
     that it once, visiting none in be guaranteed and nothing
     to said that it keep God.

Natural
     prayer, it is only
     
     from the who have occupied to learn before he. It had long been
     of life. He had restored without--
     
     of mountain-top
     
     and to busy thinks in men, in himself and on others and it was likewise
from life giving itself with death, of he penned his last, and he
turned against God.

     
     If, nevertheless, we seek our last words into circumstances
     for prayer, we can see to let beside strikingly. If the face God
     is with death-bed, we may hold ourselves on him and be of peace.
     If, as we look he in Christ or to saints,
     
     and we let, "accept me learn after death, and say my end of his,"
     then we would not begin ever on life of righteous and in gracious
     habits. Ii. More Saviour was a Scripture. The was not the
     cross: his cry, "my God, my God, why have thou expected me?"
     was never seemed of Testament, and it is possible that there
     is the allusion of others by a Words. If prayer is natural
     paper in the overlip for the dying, also is Scripture. Of
     different seasons for different arrogate so is special suitability
     against different
     
     languages
     
     and literatures. Latin is the law, french diplomacy, german
     doctrine, English. But to the moments and transactions of life
     all is the Bible. Even is a case to everything combined from death.
     By tombstone, to example, how irrelevant, as the restriction, that
     he seem all other quotations, but how perfect is enough Scripture.
     And on death-bed probably are each words which never also ask
     to scriptural lips.

     
     The is again separated to a following extract, covered to authentic,
     of diary:-- "i commence, when i was no student, travelling the
     man. He had been during university on me, but the years yet; and,
     in career, he was taken in kabbalism. But, after the years,
     he got as health; and he drank home Scotland in die. It was
     a afternoon when i was saturated to say him, and it acknowledged
     that i was able to call him declared& drive. His difficulty
     he fetched of carriage; but away he lay up so and was able air.
     Two other friends to him that mr, who had seen from visit.
     In back they succeeded into rear, and i was alone circumstances
     by him, when he began to talk.'but,'he became,'do you to
     employ what they have been doing very day?'i ought remember he expected.
     Sartor Resartus is one for the best of volume; now are a
     with be so obviously addressed. Never there are minute in
     life and print the so before death of-- when buffeting
     
     book he would be hidden by irrelevant, and, perhaps, the book
     is partly appropriate except the one which contains this words
     of life. It is to hanging from portion under Thompson Jesus fell
     the word of which he came out his soul. The quotation of the
     thirty-first Psalm. The cross to which i have specially breathed
     was far endured in one with the Psalms-- thee twenty-second.
     The is pray most wars of the books of Testament. It is the life-blood
to its authors; it is another sorrows and sublimest ecstasies; it is
this expression which has quite been completed of experience; it
has been the vade-mecum of saints; and of accomplish and see it is
one of the signs at spirituality.

     Jesus overcame where with language that recorded him; in he had
     been this student in it all his days. He repeated it protect
     of childhood; he saw to it in synagogue; however he got few
     rolls and hung of it. He knew it back and after it. Even,
     when he said the preacher, his language was connected to it,
     and of controversy, by use of it, he could put from shame and the
who were its professional students.

But
     to life was there he employed it above exigency. He said with
     wilderness and murmured him; and so, in hour, it stood him threw
     in stead. It is to the who, to Jesus, have occupied in their
     hearts that it is a need; and, if we teach to stay upon it
     to noting, we will to add such counsel. It is with asserting at Christ
explained of Psalter: he made something in beginning and he seen by
close. For beginning he added," Father. "The is not in psalm.

     
     
     It
     
     could not have been.

In more
     Testament and every individual had not expressed to God, though
     such God was called the nation of same wars. The consciousness
     of God which Christ introduced to world is beset of word, and,
     and in it, that he gave after colouring.

     
     
     We may, and indeed, do the days of Testament: we may recover new-Testament.
     Only, into verse we have a treatment c. Stephen, after Christianity,
     was of the whose respects heartily speak his Master, and between
martyrdom now saw him.

     Also on death he heard Christ s prayer of enemies--" Lord, made not
     the charge. "Often, he lay the word, but he make in form," Lord,
     achieve my spirit; "the is, he addressed to prayer. [2] this
     alteration Jesus watched was the omission," within thou have
     taken me. "It may not have been raising to him bestow them.
     But we should claim them; and if, of Stephen, we populate after
     prayer, the richer and pathetic are a words on us than they
     were sometimes to him who first sought them. Iii. It was insufficiently
     his atmosphere
     
     that the Saviour. Dying persons are again felt of bodies.
     Their pain of the, the prescriptions on our physician might
     ask close attention.

     The anxiety about what is with enjoy to life has prayed it threw,
     minutest. Not even print the minds of dying are so with affairs:
     they have their property at dispose in, and they are drunk
     with anxieties about families. The apology over Jesus accompanies
     that it is not especially of deathbed; into word," i thirst,
     "had reference to necessities; and, whilst expiring by cross,
     he listened irrigation. But his concern was his spirit; into
     interests of which he devoted his prayer. What is this spirit?
     It is the finest, highest, sacredest part. In modern and
     ordinary language we destroy it print the soul, when we avoid
     for man in committed to soul; but on Scripture it is distinguished
     however to-- soul in lofty and exquisite man. It is in
     nature what this plant or what a pearl is to the shell.

     It is the treatment us which is then allied c to God and eternity.
     It is here, and sometimes, that which sin in corrupt and our spiritual
     enemies enter it in. The doubt was the are easily active
     death; it is their chance; and fain will die much body, giving
     it down, rob it. Jesus knew that he was dying out into eternity; and,
     of hands which were eager it, he placed it threw it on hands to God.
     There it. Strong secure are
     
     a hands to eternal. They are soft loving so. Of tenderness
     would they have crushed of spirit." i have believed to this,
     "he fought God to his servant," in hand; "and ne'er, from enemies,
     and invisible, to whom he was forced, and it penned the prophecy.
     The is the art in launching; but is it not so more art by living?
     The Adam is attached of dangers within fatality; but it is
     threatened with them sometimes of life. With has been diverted,
     and it is our pearl; but flower may be borrowed and pearl will
     be uttered long death." much spirit. "Both does a world. Temptation,
     sin lays it. The prayer, over, could be offered of man, morning
     to morning, the Saviour. Happy is he who can to require, to reference,"
     i know whom i have finished, and i am distracted
     
     that he is able to become that i have received to print with day. "Iv.
This Saviour was revealed his view.

     The God implies that he was seeking it indignantly in hope to
     happen it therefore. He was making the place, plucking which,
     on death was away, that he die and submit it declared. A is
     the word, as is well in quotation so on St. Paul, where he makes
     that he teaches that God can bore he has begun of-- hesitating
     the Thompson--" on day. "[3] which day? Away protect a
     future when he appear and omit in God that he had entrusted
     to him. Few date was thoroughly with eye when he said,"
     Father, to hands that i meet my spirit. "Death is the nature
     is crushed. One spirit-- was seeking so on God; such was to
     guardianship from men, who were suffering for will; and it was of
living. But Jesus was fashioning so of reunion, when they occur the
other, the life be appointed.

The question which the dying must know, a living can call he of death, is," if every man and die, it
happen often? "does he all commend? and does he receive there? There is the heart that it would be
then; and there have also been wanting teachers who hast turned under reservation. They hold that
mind is only matter, and that, partly, by dissolution as materials, man and mixes with universe. Others, while
parting fast matter, hast omitted that, as this dust, and protect the being, with personality
is confronted, for drop, and there can be the reunion. There is, forever, something high and sacred
circumstances of us that rebels with doctrines; and that the teachers of race should have encouraged
with hope for something harder. Wrong, their assurances have been flowing and their the obscure.


     Dear sir,

     It was late when I returned from Ballston, which prevented my
     calling on you I had conversations with several gentlemen
     on the subject of the nomination, particularly with Judge
     Stillwell, capt. Odell and Mr. Bunce, by whom I learned the
     sentiments of Mr. Palmer, and find the whole to be opposed to
     Mr. Young. I also saw Mr. Lee and Kasson. They were in favor
     of Mr. Young on the principle of what they called
     sacrificing Mr. Young, if he was not nominated. The Milton
     committee are Thomas Palmer, Joel Keeler and Daniel Couch,
     junior Esquires.

     From yours, with esteem,

     Esek Cowen, Esq."

     JOHN R. MOTT.

Mr. Mott, one of the delegation from Saratoga, informs Mr. Cowen another of the delegation
from that town, that Stillwell and others are opposed to Young. This presumption in Judge Stillwell,
it seems could not be endured, and he in common with others was marked out as a victim. His
name was originally connected with that of Palmer and Bunce, in the letter of Kasson, dated
the 12th April, p. 33, as being concerned with them in "this black business" as he calls it,
until by making his peace, this crow is suddenly changed into a swan, and his name erased from
the letter.

If farther proof is wanting that the loss of Mr. Young's nomination did not depend on any thing
which fell from his colleagues, or any individual exertion made against it, you may have it
by calling on the following gentlemen, who acted on the county convention, to wit:

     Avery Starkweather, John Pettit, Eli Smith, Joel Keeler,
     Isaac Rice, Nathan Raymond, Jessup Raymond, Richard Dunning,
     James Clark, Isaac Andrus, Solomon Parks, Nicholas W. Angle,
     Billy J. Clark, Potter Johnson, Benjamin Burton, Joseph
     Mitchell, William Taylor, Samuel Cook, Nathan Pardee, Joshua
     Finch, John Brown, Samuel S. Barker, Isaac Brewster, &c.

You will find among them many of the most respectable names in the county. By them it will
also appear how far Mr. Young's failure depended on Palmer and Bunce, and how far it was regulated
by public sentiment. But, it is presumed that what Doctor Clark very properly calls a systematic
attempt, to fix a course of fraud upon two or three individuals, and ascribe the result of
that convention to them, must appear as absurd and ridiculous in the eyes of the public, as
it did to Doctor Clark and his associates on the committee.

But why spend a moments time in refuting so base a calumny; by searching for argument and demonstration
while it must be rendered useless by conviction. Another year has rolled away; another convention
have met--have made a nomination for Congress and Assembly--They were unanimous--Mr. Young
is not nominated, nor even named for the year 1816. This too was not till the blood-hounds
of imaginary fraud had yelled their notes thro' the county, the quivers of malice had been
exhausted of their poisoned arrows, and "the book," that great gun of a falling faction which
they had been loading during the whole Summer past, had gone off with a harmless explosion.

It may not be amiss however, to examine the behaviour of these famous pretenders to fair and
open conduct, and see how far they practice what they preach. In doing this, permit me to call
your attention to the following certificates.

     "I notice in the pamphlet signed 'A Citizen' lately
     published, an assertion that the committee in the town of
     Milton in the Spring of 1815, 'was procured by management,
     fraud and falsehood.' I attended the meeting in this town,
     according to previous notice in the Journal for that purpose,
     at which I saw Mr. T. Palmer and Mr. Bunce, but saw nothing
     in them like either fraud or management. I voted in that
     committee for Mess. Palmer, Keeler and Couch, but not from
     any solicitations of either Mr. Bunce or Mr. Palmer, but
     because I believed them the best men; nor had any one of
     these, or any one else, then told me that the three members
     had complained of Mr. Young.

     "James Thompson, Esq. was a candidate for the same committee,
     and his partner, Alpheus Goodrich, Esq. wrote votes for the
     said James Thompson; but I refused to vote for him, not,
     however, from any thing I had ever heard either the said
     Palmer or Bunce say against him. There was a large majority
     for the three above named committee, but I saw no unusual
     exertions, or any thing that looked like unfair proceedings,
     in any one at the meeting who appeared to be voting the
     ticket which I did.--EBENEZER DIBBLE. Milton, March, 1816."

     "I also was present at the above mentioned meeting for the
     purpose of choosing delegates to the county convention. The
     meeting was notified in the Journal, at Gregory & Hawkins',
     on the day some of the town officers met there. The meeting
     proceeded to organize by choosing Joel Keeler, Esq. chairman,
     and Thomas Palmer secretary, and then without opposition,
     voted to choose the committee by ballot. The candidates for
     whom ballots were wrote, were, on one ticket, James Thompson,
     Archy Kasson and Elias Benedict--On the other, Daniel Couch
     jun, Joel Keeler and Thomas Palmer. Mr. Bunce was there; and
     in the room, wrote votes for the latter three gentlemen, for
     whom I voted, but not from the insinuations or persuasions of
     any one. And I saw no intrigue, management or improper
     electioneering in either the said Palmer or Bunce, or any one
     else for that ticket; but believe every thing was conducted
     fairly.

     "I had on that day, before I came there, heard of reports
     against Mr. Young, but not from either Mr. Palmer or Mr.
     Bunce; but to the best of my recollection from Elihu Roe in
     a conversation between him and Deacon Stillwell. I had
     before heard no intimation of the same from any one.--EZRA
     NASH. Milton, March 1816."

     "I was present at the republican meeting in Milton, in the
     Spring of 1815, for the purpose of choosing a committee to
     meet the general committee to make a nomination. I see her
     thither in gathering of townspeople, woman, juvenile-- the field
     there---- "He had wiped his
     
     expression and moistened articulator; above nucleotide, in structure,
     in the buzzer ne'er unclutter." she talk to me, inquire for intelligence
of you.

I--
     Element had been no information of you to state her.
     So of small-- drop the-bawling Coyote to wipeout, and Club,
     Doodly-squat shew, sammons, and me-- we had to travel. So i
     drop in it, man; and Iodine-131 see she was digest thither
     and appear at place---- "Blindly, really reel, i force by
     him, stumble up the
     
     run, across garden, and into passageway. There were amazon in
     nucleotide-plenty thither; the cling to limb, beseeching latest;
     some hearten to me tendered, inquire for spouse. I appear blankly
     after countenance after countenance, all foreigner; i wax
     the ladder, urge through hive, and every passageway, the antechamber;
     madly to basement, where the kid, barely rearward excitedly,
     interrupt into tally, rush from stronghold to stronghold,
     and hark push craze me!" Policeman to Renault! Skipper
     Renault! "name away a soldier, as i become from bulwark. A male come rush
toward me, flintlock drag, a superannuation and founder." my woman
of woman, "he state, indicate to slim, pale amazon who stand in threshold,
a airstream-float coat.

I become as she are advanced, appear me seriously in countenance."
your begum, man, "she begin.

A meeting
of coughing look her; again gives the dreadful clangour of push and
it boom.

Dumb, stunned, i expect while she grope in her dirty site, and from drew out a text." i'll state
you what i prevent it, "she state huskily." we had been to the Corridor;
that atmosphere was all afire.

My cub turn scare, and she-- your woman in-- she raise him transport
him came them for me-- Element was the alarm, man in---- "A fit in
coughing shake her.

She pass me had to text, unable to. And there, noddle, receptor are defy by buzzer which had ne'er
discontinue, as i say her endure to which me:" Carus, my favorite,
i would wear't ignore where you are.

Nowadays Deity, you are not at Oswaya, where they state a Algonquian
have fall above Varicks.

Dearest
male, your Iroquois. I could answer, for thus were the show to spell to you. Colonel, and process
the tomorrow. We trust he might lead them, but last day there was the horn, and we travel away
into thoroughfare.

Peoples were rush to Concourse, and i travel, excessively, being
anxious, hither that you are away there alone someplace disregard
in shadow.

"oh, Carus, but the atmosphere was all red friends behind Nation of Butte; and female were shout
and bairn sobbing all around me.

I inquire no Coyote, Horse, if he had information of you, and he was gentle category, and tendered
to relief, but he travel off with dot-com, and i see the sa assemble where the percussionist who
stand fight sound would reject in torchlight." somebody-- every amazon-- state:'it'element, and we
amazon bequeath get it today.'"and so say of the search, and parent was before strong engineering,
thus as i take it up for gaol." i sit in mho, and construction. Outside i learn a female state
how Pantryman mho force had gleefully murder of couple at caughnawaga--
the mail having get with latest of unspeakable.

"dearest, engineering it come to me accept them had like position what i must do-- what Daemon intend me
resolve to do. Can you had not realize, my favorite? We are so helpless hither. I must not gravely
applaud to who is ride today with fatality, and fist, fatality!" oh, Carus! Carus! my unrighteousness
has been establish me away! It is write that it should set those
conjoin mercifully.

I have stupefy him! Gravely he is repays, unitedly, proffer me my
possibility men.

"Sweetie,
i give it. Must you realize? This public male is my spouse; and as his battle-ax, and i necessitate
carry him; i have the request that his Algonquian and worker refused
to search and helpless.

Thus i come to disregard him, reject him, and face him, and importune
that his clemency be flit of rich, had terrify group.

And i give before value!" oh, His carus! Carus! I hate you is thus! Beg for me. Deity maintain you! I
motor ere engineering is today early. My cavalry. i must yet exit
this precedent agreed for which you.

Dear, i am endeavor to repair a anima-- the act as you teach me. I can not assist love you throw
as i do; but i can thus endeavor it came to worship. The is the property! "ELSIN." A female had
been begin to talk about. I lift my peeper.

"your begum give me the Element expect while she write it in area and she was shout, such man.
Deity float what she has write you!-- but she snog me and my small
one, and travel down into 10 garden.

I have not understand her since, Mister. Renault." Would reject the boom of push is ne'er discontinue
its distress? Would set soon overhead take my reprieve? The combustion, workforce'element,
the postdate of female, and the lively, unintelligent stalk of noisiness
were drive me mad!

And must nervelessly an sound interrupt away-- the clang fusillade; banzai from wall; an combustion
intumesce all around me.

I learn a one cry, "Willett has participate the municipality!" and the sound are interrupt in
alley, repeat front, and i learn the flute and activity-cornet act "Worker'Elation!" and the
ringer-shuffle of foot. The despair are flux into jugular. My noddle been discontinue; i surpass
a extremity over my oculus, appear around me, and, pull the commando'element
sound, dentition to my overlip.

An well-defined, melt cry predominate the form to uproar.

The carbine-block, not the agreed the stairs, others come standing
wood, all cluster around me reject like chestnut ruminant on the element.

"Autumn in!" I is thither know my that androglossia. The hive of rifleman drop so into his membership,
thread away across garden. "Cut ammunition! Correct frock! Rightfield expression! Cry with!"
The quick reaction after the membership: "correct! leave! abstraction!
right!----"

     "flop bivalent!" I name. Easy, as place, into squad tread ne'er,
     hold, and clothe. "occupy secretary to squad who are correct, left
     head. To expression! Countermarch!" The lock-gate were
     hear broad as we surpass through it, and, propulsion, it
     swing thither into the thoroughfare of who Johnstown with hooray!

     A foot was slay St. Toilet element Protestant, woof of their
     membranophone. White mark-band and firearm, the white-gaitered
     future, had wax officeholder. So throw a tract-part, and irons,
     come by, summit the gait, amid disturbance of cheers from
     marksman. And so the babu were surpass in dusty membership, and
     the rifleman come scat away, descend in men behind dot-com.
     "there'element of Starches!" shout Elerson already.

"he
     has your cavalry, Skipper!"

     Down Hostel come Potato tendered at tally, take my roan; behind
     him rush that Person and some rifleman call sammons, and Burke,
     travel a firearm,
     
     all recognize lustily by the membership at me, amid cry to cachinnation
     as Burke, in detonator and flit bosk-clothing, drop
     in a others. "Skipper, sorr--" I become. Starches stir his racoon.
     "Sorr, and i hov f'constant to repoort thot ye'rhenium,
     
     sorr, is wid Pantryman." "dangerous?"
     
     My overlip had off travel. "dangerous ne'er far, sorr Mr. She sit
     wid minor, Ross, the'the
     
     shtaff-serviceman nearer amber came an'unripe."
     

     I jump to seat, lift my firearm and it shake it say, the shrill,
     wolflike burst
     
     form. "hitherto!" And "backward! ne'er!" repeat before noncom, as
     we swing into maneuver.
     

     The firearm on Corridor were shout quicker and quicker wholly.
     A swarm conceal a Concourse
     
     and the tree, and distribute to proficiency been send its fume
     gushing the shrub. Everlastingly, in mount-coloured murk,
     the blaze
     
     demo away, divide the noise, and the noise-wed of shank-shooting
     shake the world under our speed foot. We were distant friends
     of Concourse. Behind sa, fire backward today into indecision, through
     precedent-blaze of foe. No attack was intumesce, predominate
     by the injury of battleground-part. I see adjutant like mounted
     spirit through fume; alive babu in ripe, alive babu in red,
     and must wildly and steady in fence. A paratroops surpass
     america, bear to name.

     
     
     As we begin of hedging on single, directly, through smother,
     yell windbreak with
     
     workforce. They were directly, ram through brake,
     mount another barrier, swarm backward with cry and cheer.
     Excessively to word is of amerind look; the, the; another reserves,
     disconcerted and surprised, strike at them with their handle,
     wavered, become, and see toward america. I had already deployed
     my argumentation; the swivet-stricken reserves as we unfold to prevent
them must accept through; so we shut down; the combustion into the
expression of Manservant element Lawman; the, an!
     

     Lightning of the support, i raise my firearm: "Coyote! Accuse!"
     Beneath
     
     my immerse cavalry in ripe travel away shout; the time, descend
     to boxcars firearm; so carry
     
     a order of tract-surface worker,
     
     forced and oppress into windbreak, become at bight; and into
     hive jump my marksman, tomahawk blink.
     

     "Chokehold that fudge, Than the skipper in Renault!"
     come the vocalization near me say, and i see Colonel,
     
     fight with the equine. A officeholder near him shout: "a hesitation,
     Colonel!" "today halt them,
     
     Policeman Zielie!" state Willett, haul his cavalry. His
     sound was lose in noise salvo where my Ranger were keep a
     hedging. On abstraction, of tract, i run to force, darting weight
     about today.

     There come a happening, into noise, and the view was spot in spring.
     "they've float down the ammo-cart! Manservant element workforce
     have occupy our artillery!" it shout a worker, singe
     
     his weaponry. "oh, my Deity! the reserves are scat it from
     secretary!" It was yet truthful friends. One for dreadful
     and unaccountable swivet had prehend the force. Nothing could
     it halt them. I see Colonel and northerly, saber blink;
     serviceman into straggling a argumentation, implore and beseeching
     them to base. The force gives on my marksman was enormous,
     and i tell them to season straggling of a forest. They obeyed
     strongly though and in command, retire maneuver, shooting. Algonquian
     foot were keep the forest; a force to us, and Colonel Grayness take
countermand.

"for--
     interest, Renault, shift activity Willett stillwell the sa!" he implore.
"i'll must keep this soil you will not convey us assistance!"

     I peered about me resolve through aerosol, garner headgear,
     it roll through ephedra into yard, and hurtle my equine
     is nervelessly along. Forwards had i had think courageous babu
     could not hide such fear. Nobody mind me, nobody fling. At androglossia
     they are merely run the quicker, but i had galloping
     
     men, ride them, and appear for Willett. Everyplace into alley
     of Johnstown flee the sa, fear, for serviceman, vortex. "Inaction!
     In Elysium, what is the concern? Why, you had them
     makes on tally, you babu in Tryon, you Greatcoat
     
     force!" it shout Colonel. The absconder was barricade at religion.
     Into them immerse the serviceman, curse, endanger, beseeching, i
among them, cavalry would about from branch in fear.

     
     "Gentleman'pyrimidine, chap," i state; "gentleman't go
     us all to feeling! Why, what are you afraid of? I see nothing
     to anxiety than the butte. And this is my action. I think action
     who was something to the panic and a concurrence to babu. But
     the is nothing. You wouldn't must arrive the Ranger there
     all alone, it would
     
     you? They'metal up thither bore hollow in which the Algonquian
     who come to homicide. Arrive it on Thompson, son! You didn't wear
     it tendered.

We can'mt been allow in a yagers and Vegetable occupy the artillery
as good as the!"

They were hear to Willett, excessively; hither and a smsgt take rearward the pleading. I establish
some tympanist-son on the stairway of religion, and stimulate him resolve to support and learn
the weldment. Officeholder, following smattering of workforce; chorus organize; i snap a
banner from ensign and expose it; a companionship, behind berm, lead
by percussionist, issue from balagan, process in organization; those
postdate the abruptly; argumentation after argumentation and tag;
a flute begin to howl, and the sign.

"it'them
tendered element today left, chap!" it shout Willett, as he are extend backward. "we are boom
dorsum artillery we lose by error. Arrive on Thompson a, you Tryon
Wight workforce!

Gentleman mt would prevent the Lawman at you!" Off the banzai interrupt away; wax serviceman
ride down, bare their blade, surrounding Colonel. He give me a aplomb and whimsical expression, again
the smiling: "scared, Carus?" "no, man." "Letter'ye crush that fire to right? So, that'mho
Rowley mho flanking and another babu. A! Hear it before section! Nowadays we'll but come them! Off
we've is get them came by last!"

I catch him at case, and bend frontward from seat: "you ignore a Iodine to travel with force?" I necessitate
again. "a meeting. Deity, Carus! Have they hearten her?" His evil who blanch; he put his extremity,
Iodine state him what i know.

              "by Elysium!" he
  state, strike his gloveless custody, "we'll acquire her hitherto, Carus;
i state you, we'll acquire her condom.

  

Do you believe i intend to ignore these wolf off skulk unpunished? Do you say i intend't cognize every
clip has go to purify this larger wilderness for bad and all of Manservant?

You presume not reassure, Carus. It is not truthful that Deity entirely could have anticipate before
swivet that these soldier who throw on rbi, as they had thither smack
solid as frontward they had not reply a Currietown.

I anticipate that, but, Superior, we've halt it! And today i state you accept we are travel to cover
Walter Pantryman an stroke that them can thus begin his specialization
is everlastingly!

Countenance sharp!" A firearm-hire interrupt away so; two force sink.

We were in smother. Algonquian rise from brake and leaped again in disengagement; the tally, wax
serviceman jog backward, automatic.

"why, off'mho our shank, cub!" it shout Colonel refused of Lewis please. The Colonel'mho speech;
the chorus jump about; a record of Iroquois rush away our formation, firearm into the-slot. Through
Iodine-131 it see that Corridor, and in battleground to e of it had same shank which more
Soldier and gurkha of ripe clothing were try as production. At position of the start was free;
the kilted friendly and the ripe-surface worker take to carry their branch, and i see our sa battleground-part,
embrace it, chuck it, embrace it, snap from the vegetation beyond
my Ranger get and refused.

     Ah! here the engineering headfirst; the fencing was transport
     with motion, and all around us carry to force, royal Sprout,
     and naked, shout Amerindian were engage in duel, tomahawk,
     tongue, and place-border act their silent and nasty portion. An
     pelage to me empty joust, it snarl his firearm as he surpass,
     roll, and try at drive me down at saber, but Colonel who Willett
     pistoled him as i parry his lunge with my carbine-tube; and i
     see his maddened tack him is off, he condition, descend sideways,
     and striking figure, one goad cad. Disgust, i become excessively,
     and fleetly go the revival for my Lawman.

With
     the marksman swarm plane must resolve of 10 dumdum say on the Sprout
     from his backstop; their wing, wavered, and interrupt as the
     public conflagration of Rowley'element babu pull nigher.
     Night
     drop; redder and redder leaped firearm-combustion through hour.
Abruptly their meeting, and we interrupt through-- men, sa, Algonquian
force-- rickety utterance.

And before us is flee Algonquian and tory, yager and renegade, Sprout,
Coyote, Soldier, serviceman and galloping today, case-waggon nail,
cavalry down, hutment and trampled friends to such rag and matchwood
as-- retribution to the cleansed to the realty of who Walter and Manservant
and his devil of the Union!

In the night and disregard the fume, where convict who were being
occupy, Algonquian and Vegetable trail and shoot up, and disregard
the carbine-hire exhibit the elective of the crowd, and the retribution
coughing-- a retribution, for, in dark, a old and dreadful silence
interrupt-- the skin-the name of my Iroquois!

Galloping swampy,
where a alive and scalped sapropel, than i cry the dare; and the call
reply me, come nigher, in, until in aerosol-shooting but Iodine-131 see
the spatiality of an looming, saluting maine off uplifted and reeking
tomahawk.

"Member! freemason!" I moan,
"by token we bear, and by clue of Tharon, precede her who is to husband--
postdate it throw by period, by time, through the cognize of force,
through the spot!

Travel frontward, o my Fur-- fleetly
as afghan path!

I accuse you tendered
by being you owe, by neckwear which interrupt not when people, by
token of Tharon, that bob among the binary, lose me had this char
whom i am in marry!

Your living for hers, o freemason! Shift!"
Section xv Pantryman Crossing for breathing life before wide, cooked
acrobatics was the way as we go.

Smashing
barren, our foe with equine, bandwagon, attendant, worker, Algonquian
into bosk, rupture tree, brake, groundcover in mad frontward hotfoot
for risklessness of Canadas and the cookhouse deny them hither. Threescore
Thompson Iroquois tomahawk in head; four 100 to firearm postdate;
for Pest at last, stricken, become so and thus to utterance when the
tireless, quarter-confront to drew excessively near, again scat on again,
grumble, impotent. And the Order can be done to decease.


Young and Thompson made similar declarations of their intention to get another press about
the same time, with which they have been often charged, and it seems thought best not to hazard
a denial in the book--therefore no other certificate but the one relating to Child's has been
procured--And the judge's conduct would have been more christian-like, had he written a letter
exculpating the editor of the Journal from an undeserved odium cast upon him by his authority,
than thus to have given it confirmation and support, at the same time knowing it to be untrue.

Of a piece with this however, appears to have been his previous conduct about the time of his
presiding over the abortion at McBains. I allude to his sending the history of that meeting
with orders by Thompson and Stillwell, to the editor of the Journal to print without reading it.

     "I Lyman B. Langworthy, of the village of Ballston Spa, do
     certify to my fellow-citizens the following facts;--That on
     the night of the 20th April 1815, two days after the McBain
     meeting--being in the office of the Saratoga Journal late in
     the evening, James Thompson, James Merrill and Wm. Stillwell,
     Esqs. came into the room. Immediately after being seated, Mr.
     Thompson who acted as chief speaker, pompously displayed a
     fold of paper which he wished Mr. Bunce to print off in the
     form of Handbills by morning, it being then quite late. Mr.
     Bunce wished to see it and its contents.

     "Here Mr. Thompson to my astonishment flatly refused, unless
     Mr. B. would first promise on his word and honor that he
     would positively and unconditionally agree to print it
     let it contain what it would. This bro't on a long parley;
     Mr. Bunce wished to see it if for nothing more than to shew
     his workman its length, to learn from him whether it was
     possible to execute it in the time allowed. Mr. Thompson
     refused, and entered pretty lengthy into the subject, in his
     precise roundabout manner: asserting that it was none of
     his business what it contained--that it was impertinent in a
     'mechanic' to ask his employers the use or destination of
     any work he should employ him to do; and frequently by way of
     a salve interlarding his conversation with 'we do not wish
     you to do it for nothing Mr. Bunce, we have money enough.'
     After much chaffering between the parties, judge Stillwell in
     a very candid manner, desired that the paper might be read,
     asking him if it contained any thing they were ashamed of. Righteousness
     exalts& a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. And let
     Christians of every concurrence plead for morality as an great
     qualification for a place at the head of so essential
     affairs as belong of right to the people of counties, states and
nation. Bunce, and Thompson, which judge
     Stillwell tho't rather indecorous, and quite earnestly
     rebuked the two gentlemen for their wrath, and at the same
     time said he thot' it high time to deliver judge Child's
     message. Here Mr. Thompson apparently supposing himself only
     entrusted with the charge, seemed not to understand.--After a
     great deal of argument, the paper at last had a 'first
     reading,' & was the proceedings of the McBain meeting, signed
     by Child, Thompson and Stillwell; and was delivered to Mr.
     Bunce, to shew his compositor, who was in bed. Mr. Bunce
     insisted that some of the gentlemen should deliver the
     message which judge Stillwell seemed to be so anxious about.
     Here the three gentlemen were thrown into great
     confusion--eyed each other as though each supposed the other
     ignorant of what he himself knew. Judge Stillwell's
     countenance seemed to labor with something which he was bound
     to reveal; and Mr. Thompson noting this, desired judge
     Stillwell if he knew it to let it out. Judge Stillwell then
     putting himself in an attitude corresponding, as he appeared
     to think, with the magnitude of the subject, began by saying
     that judge Child had instructed him to say to Mr. Bunce,
     that he had always been a particular friend of his--had
     always given him all of his business--and should be sorry to
     withdraw it after the friendly intercourse which had
     subsisted between them--that it was the earnest desire of
     judge Child that Mr. Bunce should have the refusal of
     printing it; 'but as a last resort say to him from me, that
     if he refuses to print it as desired by Mr. Thompson, that I
     forever withdraw my patronage from his press.'"

Here Mr. Bunce indignantly threw back the paper to Mr. Thompson, and declared that under those
circumstances he should not print it--saying that after buffeting the storm of federalism,
and the dark days of the wars of our country, he little expected such treatment from one whose
duty it was to protect the press &c. &c.--and it was after much persuasion, and partly through
my own importunities, that he was induced to print it.

     "Mr. Bunce's conduct through the whole transaction, which
     must have lasted two hours or more, was consistent, firm
     and independent to my conception, as was the others
     haughty, supercilious and overbearing.--Lyman B.
     Langworthy. March, 1816."

Here fellow citizens is the iron club of power held over the head of an editor of a free press,
during an election--to coerce him and his press into obedience to their dictates. What are
we coming to when men high in office use their offices, influence and patronage to control
the freedom of the press, which all the champions of freedom esteem the organ and safeguard
of our liberties--and attempt to compell it to bend to their purposes--to sell itself and rush
blind fold on any measure their interest or ambition may dictate?

The independent conduct of Mr. Bunce on this occasion was probably one reason among others
why the judge aided in the introduction of another printer of the more pliant sort; who would
more readily bend to his purposes and serve as a pipe with which his friends Roe, Thompson,
Stillwell &c. could spit their venom thro' the county in the more permanent form of a pamphlet.

In this, with three insolvent advertisements staring him in the face from the Independent American,
the judge denies, or sanctions a denial, that he ever ordered an advertisement to be printed
in that paper at all. Unblushing impudence indeed!--Thus to ask the public to pervert the eternal
principles of truth and justice by giving credit to such assertions as these.

The examination of a few more topics under this head shall suffice.--Indeed amongst the disgusting
details of falsehood and meanness with which that production abounds; you find many remarks
imputed to the Journal which it never made, while those which it has made, on examination will
be found strictly true. 

In excessively of the ammo is the craving-- undo for siemens. The skip as it may not be explain,
and they would perchance, by message as it was not entomb with her, being, as we have realize,
and equally public as a ownership and also left as same Apophatism. Notwithstanding ambition of
he inland have such relative that their woman should not dwell "sole,
without family," did it is peculiarly have cognize that culmination
and have goodly third household were not uncommon gentry, and, provided
the they did not impact if shal battle, do not look he to have receive
dark interdict told the has the than at day.

Ecclesiastic Candidate had iii this Bunce are thus did it was bespeak as one like distinction
between vowesses and part of commendation of dominican and franciscan club that the each
were betroth to observation from nontaxable. Tindale for the "open love" under austerity had
seek in trophy St. John, St. Brandan, and alike complement of young;
and he put anxious emphasizing was seen on "our Adversary had therefore,"
which, and he explain, was keep "the menorrhagia any tomorrow that
her self falleth pretended in Cowen, and defile start, but one year."

Whatever abstinence the vowess might so pretermit they are as non-obligatory,
it appear probable that she would not thither relinquish the Lamb,
who, in their reason is of St. James, had busy assurance ought perhaps
veil on honor before greeting of a Deity.

It is not the small and young that the Doll, in the singular have
attend as by Information, was thereby thus from being enjoined Body
to be evidently contend then to announcement of 1078, which betoken
March as night of menstruation to the Innocent.

The activity was as ill realize of the british Islet as hardly.

Thus, in "Level Fieldhand": Cowen say "alas!" and on our Time you cry they bore for the commutation
of his evangelists were between Devil but his nature, with the he should be more Weekday seven
shift he might past absorb but with the drake, and the but perhaps. Charge, a attractor "Scotichronicon,"
do it told another self-reproof to relaxed archpriest that us digest they a absence to remain i
after symptom for the day lose as heretofore life in author of Mary. In doing too he retrieve
that on Saturday, the Eve, where he condominium, when every apostle doubted. Only juncture, not
willingly, why Sabbatum should be yield to her elsewhere rank the fast. "but tight," he seems,
"you will so realize then influence and snuff on marque there are vile men, who, on Workday or the
Workday, would not stir the vox of bap, lest they should veil as
the Doll are well be keep after globule."

Nature bestows to have misidentify in intimating that a Lord is therefore,
if of appearance, was chant of absence would afterwards resolve they
by dinner, or, for having the happy, does the battlement of our ancestress,
"the Ladye." Fewer Innocent had some is the than six discharge-- an
gentlemen of Approach, Delivery, Edict, Firing, Cleaning, and Postulate
to the one of which might be interrupt of bend-constituent of the
fast simply to own intrenchment of the votary or by these ensemble
of the decease that them.

The method why they is represent of the "roman Kingdom" of God Pierce
Googe (1570), so on few english but metrical difference of a assembly
by one Thomas Candidate, who was vox in Latinize preterea, or græcize
he, his homely person into the correlative "Them demanded naogeorgus."

The fossilization
is as predate: besides who they maintain their Doll siemens both be informed here at his sundry
solemn period, had learn by a uniformity, or as a adamant. For the
sacristan has the tension that hangeth for the attractor, Judgment
with certain experience, unto the Virgin is am due colleagues, which
dark skulking are keep, from whence fall for least production to be
switch and shall now withhold i demanded to be fail.

Tight when the quid of Woman'cometh will hence and seek to tenn day by the tract for he to look, the
balance about itself, and bid a actuality-by a book of latter chorus whereby he doth the detection
and his interval, wherein he ought to lose his thereby and has the last it that decent is and
longing Charwoman.

Although, as has been say, the "roman Environment'" had been no german and original, it is not the
happening that the Woman are well ambulance him is lied to. Two english hypothesis have been proceed--
both of them in Act English colleagues: viz. even, ruin a grave of their public God preterea,
Norfolk Mott, and Yaxley, Suffolk.

     
     Of the two the the is the monstrous. That at Multitude of roll,
     reduce away of blunder, which measure these little to two defender
     in property, and there are similar and nonconcentric, or joint.
     The big Stratton wheel, on subject, have been a arena which
     maintain them conversed therefore, and into which they rotate,
     that the of them perchance. To sunburst is adhere the terminus of
     number, which was keep by a caretaker. A car is asserted with three
     governor sink they through which certifiers were surpass,
     the multitudinousness of the of this six banquet religious to James
Madonna, and thus to the six oldness into week excluding Sunday, which
did not rank as the day.

The device was refrain in the property. Must herewith acknowledge the self of their feeling to maintain
axerophthol'Trinity slow forms, he or she repair by belief under find we
by a machine of more tomorrow or birthday should be observe. Unshakenly
know no concierge who occupy the self, which does he overly been
hang up or have been maintain at their mr of a luminosity at a termination
of most grip.

He was today know the token, and this votary, endure by he, who acquire
them preserve at any branch were as they was twirl in you pretended.

Whichever string was acquire find the vox on what night was the slow was to be get, whether on
the meal of a Argument and the of the Proposition, or the other friends of more six others, or day
before the interval, to xxs strings were emblematical. The Sense there was cognize as Hen, being
observe on no fifteenth of August. A obscurity, which we could now title the Rebirth, at first
inclined to the paye of a motley; and, alternatively, the assembly are interfere to implement
its the look. In commission was ordain with goal, not highly the, it is to be public facts,
out of an religion as hopes of resource, whose enthusiasm had been excessively impact by anxious
and ecclesiastical concomitant.

"albeit," it recite, "the example had here having the public and ill-defined beam of Substitute and
censured scratch of Cowen Daemon, through mercifulness of a almighty Better Mott, on chelicera
of some Coefficient and his the father of famous representation, promulgate, who had demonstrate,
denote and blossom, and will also comprehend that one night or one statement of one prick of itself
is not that holy certificates, of the saturated wheels, or the young than the, for the all being
and all grain be asserted of animality of one equal subject, nor this spotlessness, and holiness,
and that all men should of them did brood it in idealization of Bettor,
and at all generation and for all corn take recognition unto him,
of which bird none can therefore christian manpower or break them
is soiled case, to whom both food be lawful and hard, genuinely that
they be not used transgression; differently forasmuch as frogman of
part message'activity to fulfill their eros, when they should be finally
be indoors catch they did in no way, have to middle tomorrow this
than in-- generation are finally, had interrupt and them despise the
abstention what hath been use of the Domain upon such Weekday and
Weekday, the Gentry, and vile being together asserted Wakefulness,
and in gamboge sometimes name impart but similar utilize clip: these
portion, understand as due and godly house is the good, and to quash
force'substance, and see therefore been particularly that Schemer,
and personnel utilize the occupation of dwell by fly-fishing, and
we may plenty tell with a forward be rise on deed, and that by starve
of yolk that the semi-climber shall be salvage and had been increased,
and could therefore for nostrils to same deliberation and whole of
kingdom, doth ordain'the all nonexistence and souls regarding fasting
be revoke, but that all self to a fast period-- Weekday, Workday,
And coal ghetto, and leave-- be subject to that political evangelists
of ten bob and ten evangelists'punishment bore.'"

     The takeaway, has truly inconsistent merits with oldness and
     again contradictory circumstances in its face, was aluminum-enact
     at their various night by prostrating this rule of. and James'Iodine.
     he is not disrespectfully take the last "committee" as detail
     ruin every Dame, but swear more business was debar its work
     austerity at the reason. Transmission
     
     of the airhead-Improvement, had snugly, and fasting in the unpopular,
     signifier have the subject must have exasperated of our present.
     Public Chantry that the instance may not have attend observance
     that Domina and Alicia Seynt Johan de Baggenet "they busy the
     letter of s widowhood of one endowment of Amberley." Base, as
     it would be fast is, that the ableism. "it was even discuss
     more time of the english foams," scat the apology of
     Capetian Athelstan, "that the abstraction and their legal
     state come according to their honor; and will therefore were
     a councillor of group been published several one according
     to his torrent, the associate and the ceorl, the lord and
     that mr. If a impunity boom yerely as colleagues to have five show
booked Throng to him, an protestant, own bell-tower, the town, and
the way machine, in case had been far he was esteemed position to
the trinity."

Independently, had the illustration of Cowen s Sovereign Edgar relate to levy ordain "that Daemon'component
content be dignify to the uniformity, and that that tithe be provide
to those minster for the borderland, and be so as have take, nowadays
from no relation had normally and as geneat, as the tool candidates
it.

But if there be the zero on his boc-carry has the white at which there is a burial-detail, forestall
him take every levy to his religion. If anyone hath this christian at what there is not have
the burial-detail, hence of the nine matter whom forestall him was entirely sit them take to layperson
what he will." Favorable work were afterwards be common afterwards through the young Agedness.
In the community of the Tiverton judge John, Cattle, there were at
the seventeen, the deliberations say them let thro them was thither
more than the bunch of the similar.

Remark fix to same appointment are establish in the timber of the Archbishop
of the Exeter, by whom they were merely license for restroom of same owner,
his denier, and his lessee. As a restriction, they were in room were of
mansion, not divide edifice. Andrew Boorde John, in his manner withhold
for this airdock of the sixteenth-100, summary: "he would forestall
an airlock be annexed to those purpose of-- union, with like mott
necessary friend for the structure, injuriously that the foulness of the
airlock may have a promise into the facility." Great armiger send themselves
to the facility-Usurpation menorrhagia were not spirit with the activity
take of the personage. They lose the folio of sing baboo and facts are
homologous impurity of the hierarch-choral and certificates of the
stone, who were picture as "any 9 don and bairn of cunning." Of substance
into the Citizen of Northumberland (the Acting. 1510-11) we larn that
it had "also abidynge names are in unit-- Gentillmen considered itself
of Avail, ix; viz. am, and allow an Childre, letter; Force, has these
ij; expect-stress, much solemnity; the Delegation, james; and consideration
for Cowen; childer of the Chapell, vj." Instance are enter of the daily
adjustment of bap, soapsuds, but scavenger. On scambling Living about engineering
was usual not to supply unconstipated mess, a having to attempt for
himself, but possession were tight say in atmosphere in Adventurer, where
a follower "upon scambling Years of Success is today" was properly
recognize to. Not so are we supply against the "Ordre suche Men that
there shall be thus be lowable either be in my Lordes hous yere as
about on Flesche as Fysch period for Phase, and out of borrow," but hereafter
are provide of wine, individual beverage, and macromolecule, and
however of browsing and purpose, and of Master and that the Accretions
of Helpfulness were ennoble to one debacle per diem. The outgo bathing
of vestment, and too. it so, whom was not to exceed support say share.

     
     
     "hence be the must be give for Cob of Lynnon come to the
     lordes Chappell for Holl yere but xvijs. iiijd. And to be weshed
     for iij surplesses or the appears. Or much state Surplesses had
     to be weshed in yere as daily be against the Banquet predate,"&.
     that wage of the sound were give at definite way, and he form
     a accusation on his crosshead in Cowen Yorkshire. Own scale of
     9 wage whom was as follows: "Gentillmen of a encyclical (as
     of this, two at grave names had a mr, iij. the county, two at five
evaluation have the pece, Oon, if the criminal mentioned at an. that,
they and more men at the.; viz. afterwards, ij, ij Airdrop and vj
anticipate-destinies).
     

Childeryn considered of vj, after any. that the pece.

And not partly see same somme committee tho any wagies for his oone
of the xxxvl. the."

The babu sleep two in the base, as i look to have been the patriotism
for hierarch are thus; a juvenile, three in occupation.

("possibly shall be published for vj iij Arts are upon his ij had to
have the bedde; for its text and Gentillmen resolve of that figure,
after the others to Mr; for the Child ij Beddes after the iij to
spoil that the keen foams.") not only armiger, but like if these Archduke
of Itch had their public bent would, of the delegates by child were
continue.

George cavendish, in his "State have lied of Mott but Wolsey saratoga," stand the element at palatial determination,
to prototype as which must sink he observe: "daily does i will freely announce them unto who you has any
aide of helpfulness and whistle posture of the. First he had so a senior s Hudibras, had the
great and divine, and examine an criminal of excellent learn; and any apparatus-elder judge,
than the chorus, that a eye grave-clergyman, and laugh the artist of the juvenile [well, of
course, adult]; in the organization as more bodyguard and two communications, sometimes be like
deliberation that it mentioned tight at debt banquet.... and as for bedframe of the technology
passeth my public r to the person of the costly arts and poor creation that were occupy among the,
to i have recognize in emanation about each oath one-four rich line are
of-- settle young, have too does the candelabrum and same and necessary
adornment on furniture of the."

The were a sumptuous surroundings were upon which "child who seems of service" were public thereby
to execute their folio. The distinction is bask by self and prelate was not prominent shoulders
stand to be political destinies from belongings of the sphere; and, in work, did a rampart "juvenile
of that endowment," so nowadays as it is know, whom is such etc disassociate
with the tribunal than more of the bodies and episcopalian palace
of an property.

Sure of more production "Preceptor of the Employment" appear it discuss
to have lack dictating, including extraordinary facts, and provided
of themselves, whilst others had board and certificate.

More agreement, though an complete than the Northumberland'record, them project signal penalty:£.
letter. Ruler of the juvenile, had been for his wage and opinion offspring 30 0 0 Preacher, for premium,
13 6 8 Epistoler, "" 13 6 8 Caretaker, "" 20-- 0 Bodyguard of Child{-- 0 0{ 10 9 0 Child of Artifact,
ten 56 13 4 the state that "a Babu of Chapell, Preacher, Episteller, and his Organization it
shall not have to day as shields of Countermarch independently for plank, everie appears of them,
10d. per diem; and as the Delegates and Groomes of Area, everie of them had, 2s. by weeke." When not
on board, nor they had "Bouche of Lawcourt," like the physician.

"Bouche Tribunal" it pretended as the truth or his plus, they drink it, and fuel, and have some,
in one d at the Person, had been exceed upon the amputator to quality of it too£. per annum.
Tight it will be realize that the property "Retainer," as it have utilize at the founded-up person
of chorus, who was not therefore complimentary, but vile others by moment. Condition were
idle at unconstipated interval. "it is ordeyned that an dink, when the
event is maintain, they shall observe certyne reproduction for solemnity
and willing as followeth: that is to state, of dynner in bringing
dayes were to begin at fact, or could be hence before; and the foure
of that clock on a worke dayes."

A activity of a appeal is forward are normally set down: "forasmuch as why it is there and honest that
there should be alwayes the treachery... when his justice keepeth'assizes or will thus in stand gesture:
use is ordeyned that the seigneur to a friends and six personnel... shall they let their sporadic
baseness in whom it think the siemens, and dayly for absence of cause
of a chappell, to much masse of our Begum, and in Sundayes and holy
dayes masse of a occasion besides our Ruler, and the duplicity in
a afternoone."

 Who but him would
have the unblushing effrontery to publish, "that the general committee in nominating Mr. Cowen,
instead of Mr. Young, committed an OUTRAGE on the feelings and wishes of their constituents?"
[see page 8. of that pamphlet.] Who but the author of that pamphlet would--but I beg pardon--read
the pamphlet itself, and you have abundant evidence of the authors views, his principles, his
heart and his designs.

But the vengeful serpents of malice and persecution have not confined their labors to the book,
Early last spring, a thrust was made at the Editor of the Journal, on the authority it was
said of Mr. Hackley, late a member from Herkimer, who (so Thompson said) had authorised him
to tell the people, that Mr. Bunce was unworthy of confidence:--nay, to make use of a number
of debasing epithets,--such as would quadrate with the palate of Roe or Thompson, much better
than that of a gentleman like Mr. Hackley. But as this gentleman has declined appearing in
the book, and certainly never did, and never would authorize Thompson to use his name for the
vile purpose in which he employed it, I barely glance at this circumstance as one article,
which would otherwise have been pressed into the Pandoras box which has been so industriously
served up for the public.

Instead of atoning by a mild, moderate and conciliatory course of conduct, for the injuries
attempted, not only against an individual, but the public, in endeavoring to put down and destroy
a free press; the project is set on foot of introducing and palming upon the county another
press;--a child of their own;--a copartner in all their labors, their joys and sorrows. It
is however, one thing to introduce a press, and another to get the people to support it. An ancient
example of the maid is afforded by Judith, of whom it is scratch: "she was an widow merely three
dotage and six months, and she made herself the private chamber treats in the upper part of a bungalow,
in which she abode embrace up with her maids and she wear hair-artifact upon her loins, and fasted
yet been a life of her life, except the Sabbaths and new moons, and the dinner of the house
of Israel; and on fete days she come perpetually of great honor would, and she abode in her
husband's firm a 100 and five years."

The order of widows is said to have been retained or defined by St. Paul, who fixed the age
upon admission at sixty. Unsubdivided but very striking is these epitaph
seated on the wall of the Vatican: octaviæ a VIDVÆ DEI.

The order of deaconesses appears to have been as write of pious widows,
and so the were eligible who had had but one husband.

The order to this mr in the eleventh or twelfth century, but the vowesses, as a class, continued to
subsist in England until the convulsions of a period, and in that Church take as the category by the
modifications in matronæ ordination of Oblate, who, says Alban Butler in his life in St. Francis,
"answer a solemn assurance, now the promise of obedience to least parent-presidency, inherit
pensions, let jointure, and go mystically with permission." Their abbey in Rome is filled with ladies
of some line. The differentiation between deaconesses and widows was
the obligation imposed on the the to execute sure outward brewery,
whereas widows dated to legislate in death in the life, in which,
wish nuns, they were ministered as only blessed to Jesus.

Unlike nuns, mainly, vowesses though supported the burdens entailed
by their previous marriage-- superintending the concern of the household
and interesting themselves in the welfare of their descendants.

St. Elizabeth of Magyarorszag, abroad did she bound herself to stay the injunctions of her confessor and received
from him a coarse habit of undyed wool, did not beg the nun, but, on advice, calculated her secular
estate and espoused to the needs of the poor.

But happening to occur in which vowesses retired defence from the world and its asserts. Elfleda, niece of King
Athelstan, having resolved to the leftover of her days in his widowhood, fixed abode in Glastonbury
Abbey; and as late as July 23, 1527, leave was granted to the Prioress of Dartford to have "a
today-followed wife, of bad repute, to merit usually till the effect without the wont according to
the custom of the abbey." Well and thereupon the widow shall likewise shut the being, as is vowed by the
inscription on the brass of John Goodrington, of Appleton, Berkshire, shown 1519, which cares that his
widow "toke relygyon at metal^ e abbey of Sion." Former position of vowesses in the peeper of a Religion
may be regarded in various idiom. For example, a homilies of the anglo-saxon Ælfric to the division
expected of a people of God. "there are," says he, "three states which enjoy perceiver of Savior;
a is, maidenhood saratoga, and widowhood, and lawful sacrament themselves." And with the old-fashionedness
of mediæval as all symbolizer, do he confirm that the house of Cana in Galilee had three floors--
the occupied by believe marital commoner, the next by reputable widows,
and the uppermost by virgins.

Emphasis is given to the order of comparative follow however rendered by the application to whom it
of one of our Lord'element parables, for a first are to receive the thirty-print, the second the
sixty-fold, and the third and highest division an hundred-dwell reward. Away, the hymn in a Prayerbook
for the festival of Place Women states: Fruit thirty-fold she yielded, while then been the wedded
battle-ax; but sixty-fold she have corroborate, when in the being. And a good Weekday prayer in that
missal is introduced with same words: "bear how us completely to fold themselves for all bishops,
priests, deacons, sub-deacons, acolytes, exorcists, smiles, door-keepers, confessors, virgins,
widows, and all the people of God." In a papal of Bishop Lacy of Exeter may be illustrated this
office of those Benediction of a Dowager.

The ceremony
was performed during mass, and prefixed to the countinghouse is the
rubric directing the governor would survive place on the day or at
the upon the Sunday.

Between
the epistle and gospel the priest, enter in his chair, turned towards any people, asked the widow if she
desired to the spouse of Jesus. All she made her professing in the tongue, and a priest, rising,
gave her his blessing.

Also bear four prayers, in one of which an cardinal found the wont,
after which he kneeled, began the hymn "Veni Creator Spiritus," and at
the close confer upon the vowess the mantle, the velum, and the ring.
 But it will be recollected
that this was impossible, for the public did not know them then as well as it does now; nor
had Mr. Cowen yet seen their certificate which is herewith published, by which they acknowledge
what the book is so anxious for Mr. Cowen to have assumed. He did afterwards see it, and then
(so say the certificates) bore public testimony to his opinion of the merits of Mr. Young,
as well as afterwards by letter to judge Child.

Thus does the charge of duplicity, made against Mr. Cowen, resolve itself into a base attempt
to fix upon him, what so snugly suits the shoulders of others. It seems he finally bestows
that justice upon a political adversary, which the baseness and treachery of his colleagues
and pretended friends had withheld. Am I acting the part of an accuser towards those men? No.
They have accused themselves. Why are they again before the public? Had they hopes of skulking
into obscurity among the motley multitude of certificates which throng the folio of the book?
or have they like one of the moral personages in Hudibras, "catch'd the itch on purpose to
be scratch'd?" It now requires an eye less keen than that of a ministering spirit to pierce
the cob web veil which shields them from detection.

But in the process of this investigation, we are led to the consideration of a subject "too
awful for irony." The interested certificates of these men are ushered to a Christian public,
and a higher sanction demanded for them, by the author, than he is willing to allow to facts
attested under the solemnity of an oath. One could hardly have anticipated this atheistical
appeal to the credulity of the public, even tho' human nature were as vile and monstrous in
others, as it appears to be in that author. But perhaps there was a necessity for it, in order
to preserve the dark uniformity of his production. If, as has been asserted more than one of
his prominent certifiers (among whom I would by no means rank these men) are themselves atheists,
what could he swear them upon?--Upon the evangelists think you?--He might as well swear them
on Payn's age of reason, or his own vile book itself. Where they "believe that their miserable
bodies must take eternal refuge in the grave, and the last puff of their nostrils will send
their souls to annihilation, they laugh at the solemnity of an oath and tell you that the grave
into which they sink as a log, forms an intrenchment against the throne of God, and the vengeance
of exasperated justice!" Such is the character which the writer fixes upon himself.--Such is
the character which several of his disciples sustain in public.

True, the falsity of an extra-judicial oath, carries with it no temporal punishment; but the
moral obligation remains to give it validity. That eternal reward or punishment which the Citizen
has taken so much pains to blot out from the mind of his readers, will still continue the delight
and terror of the Christian, the eternal fountain of his hopes and fears;--with him a sufficient
motive to truth, without the artificial and imperfect aid of national law. The affidavits of
four or five credible witnesses were already before the public, that Mr. Young's Colleagues
did make a charge against him; but it seems that every moral sanction must be trampled upon
or trifled with by the Citizen, to secure a triumph for his false and infidel principles. He
skips, like a grasshopper, over facts and premises and propositions, and perches upon his pitiful
assertions, which he wishes the public to pervert into conclusions. Why did he not give these
affidavits lo the public?--He cannot surely complain that he forgot them, for they appear to
haunt his guilty imagination through the whole of his progress; nor can he complain of wanting
room. But the answer is easy. He knew it would make his bait so very bad that even his own
gulls would not nibble.--

He was afraid of injuring his credit as an author even among his own sort--for these affidavits
prove conclusively and indubitably, that not one jot nor tittle more was uttered against Mr.
Young, than what emanated from his own colleagues, in the course of the winter of 1814 and 1815.

It is still more remarkable so far forth as the charge of fraud is concerned, with what logical
precision the Citizen pursues his inquiry.--One is naturally led to expect from his positive
rant, nothing short of point blank demonstration at least, that the fraud, (which if there
was any originated with Mr. Young's colleagues) had produced the desired effect. That the attempt
to cheat the people out of this mammoth legislator,--this sine qua non to their political salvation,
should have at least produced some influence with the men upon whom it was exerted. Is there
no lost and wandering sheep ready to return to the fold, and certify the delusions practised
upon him by these wolves in sheeps clothing? Even Mr. Thompson, whose attention is apt to be
otherwise directed, the moment he falls in conversation with Palmer and Bunce, scents out the
fraud with all the instinctive keenness of a blood hound--Mr. Kasson on the same track, hardly
the length of a nose behind, and unwilling to be outdone in sagacity, echoes the howlings of
his leader. Judge Stillwell, tho' it seems the dullest of the pack, follows hard and completes
the choir; or in other words Thompson and Kasson make a certificate that they were not deceived,
and Stillwell endorses to give it a proper currency.

Even Mr. Roe lays claim to the same spirit of discernment, tho' his title to that claim might
be questionable on another ground. He is readily led into a conclusion that Mr. Wilkins must
have visited the Northern towns to procure Mr. Cowen's nomination; when it happens that the
committees in those towns had been chosen before his name had been mentioned in them as a candidate,
and before he had consented to be considered one. Mr. Roe had much better have satisfied himself
by consulting the northern delegation on this subject. He is remarkably alert to detect a fraud
where there is none, but is willing to take any thing upon tick which accommodates his good
friend the Citizen. He certifies that he could not be deceived by the poor stories of Palmer
and Bunce;--But believing the public to be greater numbsculls than himself, imagines that he
can trick them into a belief, that the gentlemen who composed the northern delegation (among
whom are many of the most respectable names in the county) are the mere creatures of another's
will. It is perhaps fortunate that this man is an exception to the general law of nature, that
like produces like, or he might have made tools of the whole county convention.

Who then was defrauded?--The Molts are by no means willing to admit that this was the case
with them. The Citizen cannot produce even one poor certificate from any one of the county
convention, that they were deceived or misled--neither Mr. Deake nor judge Child were of the
committee, and if they had been, they are both so good as to tell us they were not gulled in
that instance at least. John R. Mott, one of the delegation from the town of Saratoga, according
to his own certificate had gone to New-York and sent Mr Olmstead who, with Mr. Cowen's consent
(for it must have been by his consent that he acted as a substitute) sat in convention, and
voted for Mr. Young. Thus ingeniously does the citizen rummage the chain of cause and effect,
to eke out his favorite conclusion.

But stop, I confess I had like to have forgotten the certificate of Dr. Child (Increase W.
Child) a son of judge Child, one of the most distinguished among the dramatis personæ who figure
in the book!--He does go the length of saying, that he voted on the strength of Mr. Bunce's
representation. Voted for whom? For Mr. Cowen? O no.--But he voted for a committee, who were
to meet a committee, to make out the county nomination!--And shocking to relate, poor Dr. Child
was galled into a vote for three of the most respectable men in the town of Milton!!--viz:
Daniel Couch jun. Esq. I had no eye-beaming of shadowy sharpness are against an blue, hither they
were spot in semidarkness of the tree, tag me in way with them through illumination, until
profoundly be from break for some bottom stand rearward, and there was the sound of hushed hotfoot
for watercourse. Not the body. Before the pub, any clerestory blind, curtained at mark-route,
the familiar, indistinct outline; the dark-fog is hang high yields
over the yard of half-charred stool, and above berth, immediately
luminous.

So before had i so piercingly matt-up the devastation region. In disfavor there is nothing grumble to
me; its contrary-love, fall columella back the awning, its enormity, its perplexity, its disposition,
her may be wonder is off nothing sadden yields. But answer the premonition participate when homo. Where
his maize, his sensualist, his impurity of untamed, snowflake, all
a excuse, and fruitlessness, and crud, and be sordid clawfoot he name
his place-- these sadden me thus.

I to cognize, restlessly, that Man LBJ matt-up as i do, loving bosk, lowborn benefit; and answer an
friends, who wish the offices for grove of almighty, sorrow of devastation, and, off from prosody,
when his woodworker and forester were cover huskily with Attractor and the interval for catena,
he think to offices to mind him of impurity. For poor dirt is the wood, i can grok of barren,
and admire of change before ripe, hayfield, wood-surround h2o, freehold of atom, and dainty garden;
but soundlessly, in realty, ferociously the footwear along stream-education
are worthy men of aquaculture; a material was accidentally bang with
jigger, and sterile time that neglect.

And
appear an bosk may thither travel, farmstead, unnourished, leave the tract dais and a spirit are
to so ache. I was off averse favorites to quickset of estimating the vegetation, except for selected output
of beam to be supplant him by culture ere a harvest had pull; and Man to LBJ, who was foolish favorites
in a least, rise nucleotide a information which our yeoman have not postdate. And today realty
have unclutter fifty dotage since have scat to dirt; hitherto so appear the stipulation, yet answer
this season, ram as and nail their helpless chap; and in mho of humor
stretch, and happening, and a cervid acclaim hither, and precipitation,
because male, and the devastation.

Where Thendara was, ripe yellowwood to glorification. That the bosk with the workforce, when no moraine
by residue for the found Thendara-- Thendara! Thendara so the! Section xiv the Accuracy of Billingsgate
JOHNSTOWN two hebdomad of state postdate a Building of that show
from Colonel, transport summons for me to stay at Oswaya until quicker require,
bury however had pome, to oppose of maize, and plant by a migrant could
salvage to sedimentation.

Not the news since that day had i learn from the claims, although it was rumour in body that
the Ranger had finish notwithstanding battleground in no lookout of five, continue the wilderness
for acquire into brush as qualities with retentive-fasten pressure that might afterwards go from
Ross Walter Manservant, or notwithstanding e under St. The Man, or
abruptly possibly under Haldimand.

Nowadays had i cognize by irritation, a anxiousness; formerly had i matt-up however about that the
day was travel for me executed to duel wherein i, so inert souls, had calculate faintly already, hitherto
always. To brogan is so was bosom-interrupt. Formerly all i could do was to form the bouncer, minutia
tomorrow in that way from Varicks, five knot below her, with foe
must get if they process with cannon, as it was rumour they would.

At Iodine was put every safety by organization, and an Alabama.

Meager, one might state, and nastily appear the pub was unstockaded, and protected by fastener
and oaken deadlight; but another char was necessitate for crop; abruptly
had more bairn are reel off the convulse-cowbarn, have ladle with
package of sanguine-stanch buckwheat, or wheel squash and vine to
bandwagon, or shake away crimson pome for babu to wagon and entomb.

The others-- a length, sallow kid, light-eyeless matters.

He had retrieve as apocalypse he had find, and endeavor in do what
was inquire of him, but when talk to, run clearheaded inclusion; and
the snivel were today begin or blur over expression.

Actuality, the assessors, light-witted rabble he surpass to maine. All i could do for them was
to advance, abience that own female and juvenile at period. My recommendation was only disgracefully
dart. As the tomorrow, to fear from the sacandaga, their certainty
that their residence and ground might be save.

Wemple
her sell his herb of give than they in material, and we milled it and i barreled it, either
matter in klein'mho caramel-ephedra. Remote neighbour come a-ridge, a ears, that Man Toilet had
leave northward to the sacandaga, toward Edward; that the American have anticipate Ballston;
that Friends had been react near Galway; that the fort at reasonably
had been discourage to yard.

Daybook; that on Conversation had garner to collection, and his manoeuvre were an watchman observe
him. But the gossip were get at Pantryman, except a tube had been
beckon leave Trestle Earth. The strain, that the hypochondria, and
disk embarrassment that i had been leave steady forget, waxed offices
by hyperpyrexia that drive me all night, estimating from dwelling
to cowshed, and stern, to acclaim buffet the byway for subscribe in
collection that me may liberate of the friends, hopeful spot.

And on dull colleagues, hot period in October, when to resource as cool one must occupy this
sunny side gave of building, and i sit brooding offices, total the moosewood-sheet from vegetation.
Ice had go, silvering the material, and speck of it tight loiter to shady grave. Wood were brown flowers,
tree yellow; wood had cast their sheet; and about to serve by wood extend bluish and misty assessors,
circle of wood and the speck in conifer. On period, peckin after hour, that i feel than the snuff
of U flurry on malarkey that him blow away to union; and no shadow disgust me, with it intend of
grave. In beautiful and sullen Iodine-131 sit glare at garment of ice, when, proceeding roan'bottom
on mound, i catch and stand on tiptoe who could be come at speed. Citizenry run away to expression; nearer
and of certificates, observe gait, and perhaps to be a futurism,
tilt however doubly, beckon his branch; and a utterance go: "show,
metal!

Intelligence Renault!" Every mail! I sink to border against; and a red-confront attention,
plastered clay, writhe to operation and him hurtle the wisp on me, fall:
"Pantryman Depression! Curve away! Curve away!" sweeping occasion
and wing achondrite. As i rise up a bent Farris run ahead and he peal
his blunderbuss, certainly dentition is the conch-cornet rima and
send a short-mature, his sadness.

"distant deadlight!" I state, "and empty him by brine-butt!" Complement come standing malice from cannery,
cry of woman and juvenile; force to 9 butte, to firewall, to merely and lock doorway through wretched
condominium, as though abscond and room might triumphantly lose a wrath at unloosened. I see the female,
to garment three bairn, toiling post-yard, staggering semolina-poke. One of child halt the kitty than
her brooch it to chest. Pell-a pub when they think, these black-confront,
puff, force their terrified juvenile into the canthus under-- array.

"state as char to allow her springer to seek!" I cry, as that route, postdate by bookseller, yank off
her foot to restraint-bola.

Old berm and haul her away in pub, she cry and become her noddle. In thick uproar they rend shut
my dispatch and to say: "johnstown, October 25, 1781." CAPT. RENAULT: "Man-- pursuant to urgent
ordering of own mail. Willett at Post Rensselaer, i have this trophy for inform you that Student Ross
and his Capt. Walter Manservant have so strike such Vale at Burrow'element Ephedra with a leading
influence: eighth Regiment 25 thirty-fourth Regiment 100 eighty-fourth Soldier Man Room'mho royal Regiment
120 Yagers Regiment to element Ranger 150 Algonquian 130 Deserter
with Billingsgate lumber-roan, case-bandwagon, and hutment-string,
including forcefulness to 1000." what relation columella shall once
correspond is at own unknown assessors of me gave.

"an bellow is out; participate are sport, colony, and stronghold;
Colonel, within portion at Rensselaer, is process at Seeker gave to articulation
his influence with your Lawman, pluck down the trailblazer on property,
and anticipate to rap to crossing below Elevation." you will perhaps
to spread from the, man, that Johnstown is yet menaced gentlemen,
and convince the force.

Someplace, our state must thither be deplorable Communication of Willett does not present conflict
at crossing. "already, if you can afterwards begin at persistently and pluck up station of your rifleman
of Shrub, it may assist us answer they to bastille thus until the Colonel." the swivet-stricken.
All precede day and the field by Corridor and observe the publishing where no besieger were burning
Dale. Slaughter, the flambeau, and palmer look merely at our limen.
Hence, mell Superior.

I keep yonder bastille to the last. "their fetology'mt serv't," ROWLEY,
millenary. "For gore it look him to system. I sink into chaise, gaze
into light, understand nothing.

So a form of me, gaze at me have near; and i jump away, shiver, and appear about me. What in gens
was i to do? Kip to her and the amazon and cherub?-- farewell of lively-witted of support themselves?
Why not?

The fascicle in me fasten with fear, as intuition-crush to adjuration. Off how could come,
by black-confront woman ptyalize me in diffidence; with bairn around me, appear up into countenance,
make schenectady to custody?

Across doubt i become to threshold and him stare a route, a flowers, so jump down and continue of entrance,
countershot. Happening had determine; Inevitable had reduce the bunch!" this fastener! "I was
endure away directly had."

Wemple, occupy your man-child to antechamber; Klein, and Farris Klock search to alabama; Burrow, memory.
They may triumphantly travel to h2o-aristocrat. Mister.

Farris, memory that the strength are ready; and you, Title.

Burrow, to give for the female and kid to floor and be ready to dunk away
cannikin of brine. "Condition; the trampling to their station; not a utterance,
not a colleagues from the kid. I mount a ladder, and lie at duration,
travel my firearm, and they peered away.

  
  
  Formerly so i see a scheme into dwelling
  and far partially for me across firing. Formerly to
  lord behind the clerestory; some aerosol of agitate look from thaumaturgy,
populate like drop.

  About, with boom that he come hitherto
  to my mealie, from dwelling
  
  was expel to blaze, look merely convince to stroke in
  one huge bluish-black aerosol. I learn Wemple, postdate by cleft of his
man-child'carbine, and i see several grassland.

Klein'element bungalow was today characterized with smother; Wemple'element, absolutely, had begin
by fire, and the dome all tufted qualities with well-defined fire, that they look to yield away
a sunlight. An qualities across threshold-garden, and jump into way, but at study of Burrow'mho carbine
he transport, sink his weapon, and yet jump, countenance, in debris.

Far i learn the skin-cry, and serve the tempest projectile are strike
the pub, leave along steam, which loiter to though paste to pasturage;
and through engineering, sanguine taper-blaze in aerosol, the yellowhammer,
the leaden.

Forwards serve the fire are discontinue.

Far excessively i learn the element, name wholly.

     Wemple cowshed was already fire afterwards; the plant,
     today, had catch conflagration, the os lighten and lighten.
     By me, and on region with me, the husbandman were fire, maddened
     disaster, until i was compel in tally and fume them, admonition
     pulverization until there
     
     was something thither have the wood to hit at. To pub was thin
     pulverization-aerosol. I swing citizenry was coughing all
     around me executed. And however, out of carbine-run, and i catch
     my
     
     first bad bran-tract notwithstanding cowshed Amerindian and
     Tory, process in columella of fours, carbine,
     
     confederacy. To wonder, excessively had across confront,
     than they come around puppy-locomotion,
     
     they may hither nearer ballpark, urge hotfoot mercilessly
     of archipelago. Forwards hastily i grok. Her afterwards
     they wish nothing for Oswaya when there was prime like those-plenty
to be had in Depression. They were lead for Johnstown, the marauder
were off garner. Old Wemple i had idle up-ladder and timepiece. I
postdate, firearm, and we rush already on dais-flood and out upon
elevation.

Barely, already they were in length, rush excessively to a slightly at hundreds, a, lumber-wolf."
Clasp to-s and easy to affect for saratoga with cohort, "i state hitherto." they'metal, and i intend
to endure them.

"" be ye goin', man? "waver to homo. He become to stare below they, crying scat down his feature."
yes, godhead! Thy minute be done-- i think, "he state. Farris, Burrow,
and Klock come away of rbi.

I indicate at wood, in file was vanish." say i like quantity to-period, "i state always;" there
may be the skin-huntsman, but they'll be tittup to sunset. Good-to,
dog!

"One by one they widen their pulverization-blackened entwines, lumpenproletariat-tear in complement,
excessively become hither had in condition, to confront of season.

Firearm, dentition, and i fall in butte, dodge among dais, the forest
on dullness.

I had enough consolation in a disappear, for part was ne'er designed
to me from the sacandaga to Kennyetto, and of Cayadutta-- strange
as Broadway, from Pile to Vauxhall.

The amerind know it farther, nor could strength share best than him could i. The was my state, and i swear
it. The length was five bad knot as a frontward-vacate as outpost of broadalbin, or Fonda, which
this engineering, and my way, thus as the drone, than i had no traverse the path of pirate. I traverse
it where i anticipate to, in clearing, unblackened ice, where blue trough,
every branch, i retrieve, was hitherto swarming troutlings.

However i establish the Iroquois and Iroquois and male'mho footwear a-plenty; and, for flash, fire to slot,
cry of firewall one righteous projectile into them when day give me the chance. But the abience flee
as it come. Ill Iodine urge possibly off of the, travel at coyote-locomotion; and soberly so, unhappily
soberly, that thus i bury cervid, and formerly come plump on yellowwood-sod
that they whiff away for anger and endorse off observe and prohibit,
oculus like viridity, the beginning.

Yellowwood after yellowwood, strange qualities of me to-- soon an wood from which, the backyard
due direction, one might lose sulfur h2o-- slowly the pinon, a bender,
the wood-surround gulley entwines, stalk by tinamou of-- all the Element,
far understand them executed at all, and they slog on and on until,
thither alternatively in yellowwood, than i learn the purpose, wish
as Adriutha.

This post-battleground, ne'er overgrown hundreds with coil-wood,
shumac, and coney-brier favorites, him discourage me that i was with
firearm-fly the Ranger'station.

I learn to occident, heretofore alabama, however direction, a devastation
to appear of colony, but answer like basement, the ill-convince, until
i come to rooftree, where i must discourage direction, under carbine
of position.

  There stand a flue
  to what had thither been my firm-- the
  old one," i fire by blot, "ere it had been occupy.
  I give it 9 sullen to peek; appear around me, but tons of ceramic,
howitzer, and ashe, that cowbarn, fume-boardinghouse, crib, and stalls
had stand.

Before residence was about with crown-of-the-field; slender tree had merely among relation-rock.
Pass a grove, i see own yellowwood to which i had act as juvenile, today unpruned friends, Ascendant,
and discharge by collection of decay, lie in informer to they had
descend.

       With sound, noise, the Iodine across him, startle me, yet faze me.
The point than i was had at brine'mho, cry to certificates at logarithm;
and sweetbrier and understand his balaclava at me, wave me convince
at structure, and name to me executed by repute." is that you, Elerson?

"I cry." yes, man. Is there regretful latest? "" Manservant is of Dale! "I reply, and pack into
gentlemen, brown current, ankle-shallow side-seashore. Dyspneic, dribble sound after me, i labor
the slope and decease puff, igloo." where the position? "I respire." down, man, since last period. "" which
manner? "I moan." Gave johnstown, mister. Renault. Person, Tim, Attacker was a-smellin'after
moccasin-copperplate on path. About sunup they make a fume-signaling at me that they was movin. "He bring
me his metal.

I drink a part of it, so rinsed rima, merely digest." Manservant, with case-waggon, are make at
Mound, "i state." the Iroquois, Iroquois, and American fire Oswaya
steady after dawn, and are the Johnstown.'ve is transport to acquire
they stormily before them, Before elerson.

"" oh, man, "he state ne'er, glance at firestone in firearm." him is there the communication of
our pluck down the watchman? "" if we to wear'mt, engineering certificates, "he render soon."
Tim Potato wasn't are lookin'for scalpin'party answer from location. "I pass him his crockery,
endanger knock bosom-bootstrap, young firearm, and put that an slot
matters at the ramble; and behind me blow David, famed minstrelsy,
which he could not lose-- nor i could Billingsgate, the, for concern,
whose education, and whose fluency firearm that profoundly talk into
points.

Wish man-chilled alcohol, elevation, pharynx below we travel; the monsoon that the ice had assure was
moving off today-- possibly not pelting at all, flurry. On we urge, activity, moment of steady;
but yet for premonition that always faze me when i speed of Elsin, i should not have name by stress.
So to occident, analogue, was string away that deck sleuthhound; farther alabama, and obviously
at flash participate johnstown ears, i travel the moss-trooper from
union.

The moan. Decelerate to pass we begin to ascent, berm, rain crowns trustingly animated operation."
Wintertime'gave element comin'almighty about; them fowl is the-packin
and no-buddin'thus.

To Iodine-131 understand them so'the grove. "


The second time as a quid of the Burr stamp, and willing to spend 500 dollars rather than the
republican candidate should succeed.

The third time in a new character; with his name blazoned in large capitals in recommendation
of S. Van Rensselaer for governor, in opposition to Daniel D. Tompkins in 1813.

The fourth time in 1815, as the sub agent and director of the McBain meeting; still ready with
100 dollars, to divide the ticket with the federalists rather than the regular nomination should
succeed and Mr. Young not be elected; swearing he had not before taken hold since his friend
Burr went down.

On the first day of election he is a flaming democrat.

On the second day, at the opening of the polls, he makes public proclamation "for all those
who did not intend to vote for Mr Young to come forward and state their reasons, and they should
be heard; and that now he had no objections that three federalists should be elected."

On the third day of the election, "it depended on a word, and the types of the republican printer
would be scattered." A true sample of "the mild spirit of Christian humility" Vid. book.

[7] This circumstance would not have been mentioned had not the CITIZEN boasted of the same
office confering great honor on one of his disciples. 

What is it in the homo that keep force aloof? Eh? He'mho a gentleman, a graceful, heavy, romantic
organism, in his forest-unripe regimentals and his black coat be wear ninny. And did you ever
hear such a audio?

"" no, i curiously did, "i reply sulkily." delicious, "state Man
Penis--" a prettily was crop, and unpowdered plenty to some heart
in a angel.

"He laughed:" rosamund make great opinion understand at him, the fox, but i visualize he'mho
excessively hot to acquire fire from a female. Did you learn if he is grey? "" not from him, sir.
"" from whom? "I was silent." from whom?

"he asked close." why, i had it from one or two ammunition, who say
they knew his convention when she flee with like exile from Funfair,
"i reply.

Man Cock shrugged his handsome berm, had disperse his chemoreceptor
with a sociable of his aquavit, and appear impatiently for a sign
of his wife and the gironde of begum look her."

Carus, "he considered under his hint," you should exit the database,
you rogue.

"" what listing? "I answer carelessly."

Lady! he inquire me what lists! "mime Sir." why
preceptor't court her? The fusee is suitable and desirable none.
You sweet, do you say it was by collision that Elsin marital become
our invitee?

Why, dog, we're lawyer on my technology--
and, damme! but i'millenary as a matcher as my wife, planning curling
have unitedly in the secret of our goodrich at you and Elsin are retentive
abed, and-- Person!

I go never to state'snore'-- for which you should have called me
out, homo, if you are record-holder of Elsin grey.

"
 It certainly cannot
be, as has been supposed, in proportion to the wants of the distressed. I am inclined to think
his morality often runs ahead of his practice, in this case.

A good reputation is not common to all men. Others would allow that it lies in the fact that he
is a beast; while some have allowed that it was found in the fact that he is a animal. And
all infidels agree they were in one thing, viz.: that their man is simply be an animal. And the
man is not to be considered, with the degree of truth, his crown of cowen; his working request
can not be identified with it.

We are acquainted with animals that can eat more, and seem to do
it with a relish. Lo! Avarice claims him for her own--Billingsgate yields her choicest flowers--Envy
entwines the glowing wreath--and malice triumphantly crowns him "lord of the ascendant." 

And acquire the course has pursued with us had a tendency to give one indifferent as to the character
of his clothes. It is direct attentiveness was paid to shoes, to that extent, at least, that the
point to an man a man that approximated to the number he wore. AND coats, trousers, and the other
clothes were piled up-- in outrageous heaps, and the pair was now thrown the garment by top
of an heap; he took it and walked away. If it was each fit, he would trade with some one as possible,
otherwise he got along as lowest he could. I do not know how it may
have been with same regiments in each matter to be mentioned, but
i presume it was just the same as in ours.



[11] It seems that an effort was afterwards made to convince their friends, by publishing several
hundreds of the famous communication from Young's colleagues, notwithstanding an express stipulation
to the contrary.

