It was race week, but the sporting men did not give Saratoga their complexion. It was convention
time, but except in the hotel corridors politicians were not the feature of the place. One
of the great hotels was almost exclusively occupied by the descendants of Abraham, but the
town did not at all resemble Jerusalem. Innumerable boarding-houses swarmed with city and country
clergymen, who have a well-founded impression that the waters of the springs have a beneficent
relation to the bilious secretions of the year, but the resort had not an oppressive air of
sanctity. Nearly every prominent politician in the State and a good many from other States
registered at the hotels, but no one seemed to think that the country was in danger. Hundreds
of men and women were there because they had been there every year for thirty or forty years
back, and they have no doubt that their health absolutely requires a week at Saratoga; yet
the village has not the aspect of a sanitarium. The hotel dining-rooms and galleries were thronged
with large, overdressed women who glittered with diamonds and looked uncomfortable in silks
and velvets, and Broadway was gay with elegant equipages, but nobody would go to Saratoga to
study the fashions. Perhaps the most impressive spectacle in this lowly world was the row of
millionaires sunning themselves every morning on the piazza of the States, solemn men in black
broadcloth and white hats, who said little, but looked rich; visitors used to pass that way
casually, and the townspeople regarded them with a kind of awe, as if they were the king-pins
of the whole social fabric; but even these magnates were only pleasing incidents in the kaleidoscopic
show.

The first person King encountered on the piazza of the Grand Union was not the one he most
wished to see, although it could never be otherwise than agreeable to meet his fair cousin,
Mrs. Bartlett Glow. She was in a fresh morning toilet, dainty, comme il faut, radiant, with
that unobtrusive manner of "society" which made the present surroundings, appear a trifle vulgar
to King, and to his self-disgust forced upon him the image of Mrs. Benson.

"You here?" was his abrupt and involuntary exclamation.

"Yes--why not?" And then she added, as if from the Newport point of view some explanation were
necessary: "My husband thinks he must come here for a week every year to take the waters; it's
an old habit, and I find it amusing for a few days. Of course there is nobody here. Will you
take me to the spring? Yes, Congress. I'm too old to change. If I believed the pamphlets the
proprietors write about each other's springs I should never go to either of them."

Mrs. Bartlett Glow was not alone in saying that nobody was there. There were scores of ladies
at each hotel who said the same thing, and who accounted for their own presence there in the
way she did. And they were not there at all in the same way they would be later at Lenox. Mrs.
Pendragon, of New Orleans, who was at the United States, would have said the same thing, remembering
the time when the Southern colony made a very distinct impression upon the social life of the
place; and the Ashleys, who had put up at the Congress Hall in company with an old friend,
a returned foreign minister, who stuck to the old traditions--even the Ashleys said they were
only lookers-on at the pageant.

Paying their entrance, and passing through the turnstile in the pretty pavilion gate, they
stood in the Congress Spring Park. The band was playing in the kiosk; the dew still lay on
the flowers and the green turf; the miniature lake sparkled in the sun. It is one of the most
pleasing artificial scenes in the world; to be sure, nature set the great pine-trees on the
hills, and made the graceful little valley, but art and exquisite taste have increased the
apparent size of the small plot of ground, and filled it with beauty. It is a gem of a place
with a character of its own, although its prettiness suggests some foreign Spa. Groups of people,
having taken the water, were strolling about the graveled paths, sitting on the slopes overlooking
the pond, or wandering up the glen to the tiny deer park.

"So you have been at the White Sulphur?" said Mrs. Glow. "How did you like it?"

"Immensely. It's the only place left where there is a congregate social life."

"You mean provincial life. Everybody knows everybody else."

"Well," King retorted, with some spirit, "it is not a place where people pretend not to know
each other, as if their salvation depended on it."

"Oh, I see; hospitable, frank, cordial-all that. Stanhope, do you know, I think you are a little
demoralized this summer. Did you fall in love with a Southern belle? Who was there?"

"Well, all the South, pretty much. I didn't fall in love with all the belles; we were there
only two weeks. Oh! there was a Mrs. Farquhar there."

"Georgiana Randolph! Georgie! How did she look? We were at Madame Sequin's together, and a
couple of seasons in Paris. Georgie! She was the handsomest, the wittiest, the most fascinating
woman I ever saw. I hope she didn't give you a turn?"

"Oh, no. But we were very good friends. She is a very handsome woman--perhaps you would expect
me to say handsome still; but that seems a sort of treason to her mature beauty."

"And who else?"

"Oh, the Storbes from New Orleans, the Slifers from Mobile--no end of people--some from Philadelphia--and
Ohio."

"Ohio? Those Bensons!" said she, turning sharply on him.

"Yes, those Bensons, Penelope. Why not?"

"Oh, nothing. It's a free country. I hope, Stanhope, you didn't encourage her. You might make
her very unhappy."

"I trust not," said King stoutly. Thus love man found on the trees at the Coniferenwaldes 10000
'high-level Jacqueria del Jacal on Orizaba only gray Tillandsia, a fleshy Echweria, an equally
dickblätterige Peperomia and one of those tongue-leaved species of Polypodium, as they are so common in dry
locations. The plants mentioned rose slightly higher, while the upper limit of the Coniferenwaldes
at 11000 'is.

In the Brazilian coastal mountains to face the Coniferenregion (Araucaria) and the treeless
Region (Campos elevatos) at much lower height than the Andes, which, as Grisebach indicates
results from failure to perform the steep peaks of the trade winds enough mass to full for
the luxuriance of tropical forests in precipitation intensity required to . Generate On the Serra
do Picu, between the provinces of Rio de Janeiro and Minas Geraes, found I last epiphytes, Peperomia
reflexa and a sterile fern leaves in the forest at about 1600 m; of this deciduous forest following
Araucariengürtel and the gnarled trunks of a Eugenia a kind of knee-timber region of the Araucaria,
formed entirely devoid of epiphytes; however, grew on the savanna from extremely xerophilous character,
which occupied the summit (Campos elevatos), a terrestrial Bromeliaceae (Dyckia princeps) and Anthurium.
In the valley at the foot of the summit, I found numerous epiphytic Bromeliaceae (species of Vriesea,
Nidularium, Aechmea) and ferns, but only a single sterile specimen of an epiphytic orchid.

  
  Due to the high latitude, performs in the Serra Geral of Sta. Catherine
  the temperate region far deeper than that between the tropics. At 800-900
  m beyond the main ridge, which has a very large portion of the moisture
  holding back, only the cultivated temperate countries drawn. An excursion
  to this mountain, from Joinville to Sao Bento, led to some interesting
  conclusions about the living conditions of epiphytic plants. Until we
  just about 1000 m high crest was reached, the forest, but not everywhere
  high, but usually dense and rich in most of epiphytic plants, we used in
  the forests of Sta. Catharina mentions occurring have, to which were
  added some other species. In the flat Hochthälern, which we crossed
  later, the woods carrying a essentially different character. It was
  partly deciduous forests, in which the dominant trees mimosa, Vernonien,
  Croton, of lesser size and Solanum species, were isolated by high sometimes
  Araucaria dominated, such forests contain some of epiphytic orchids
  (Pleurothallideen, Epidendrum) of very small dimensions, Tillandsieen,
  small ferns, Peperomia reflexa, all the plants with advanced
  protective devices against transpiration, as we otherwise found only
  in Sonnenepiphyten, although the same in the trunk Shadow grew. In parts,
  we went through Araucarienwälder where the epiphytes appeared to be
  completely absent, although these also Araucaria happen if they separated
  in the dense deciduous forest Grow. In the savannas of thin Araucarienwalde
  and covered valley where the small village of Campo Alegre is, I
  had no epiphytes seen until I came to a ravine surrounded by high cliffs,
  where a waterfall roared. Above the water bent small trees, their
  terminal branches powerful tails of Tillandsia usneoides hung while their
  trunks and thicker branches of many Tillandsia rosettes, Peperomia reflexa,
  small orchids and ferns was covered. It was apparently not to the low
  temperature, that the lack of epiphytes in the valley-related,
  but the lack of sufficient moisture, although the climate of Campo Alegre
  to European terms would not be in just as dry.
   He was lonesome and wanted company, and, besides, the women liked to be by themselves
occasionally.

One might be amused at the Saratoga show without taking an active part in it, and indeed nobody
did seem to take a very active part in it. Everybody was looking on. People drove, visited
the springs--in a vain expectation that excessive drinking of the medicated waters would counteract
the effect of excessive gormandizing at the hotels--sat about in the endless rows of armchairs
on the piazzas, crowded the heavily upholstered parlors, promenaded in the corridors, listened
to the music in the morning, and again in the afternoon, and thronged the stairways and passages,
and blocked up the entrance to the ballrooms. Balls? Yes, with dress de rigueur, many beautiful
women in wonderful toilets, a few debutantes, a scarcity of young men, and a delicious band--much
better music than at the White Sulphur.

And yet no society. But a wonderful agglomeration, the artist was saying. It is a robust sort
of place. If Newport is the queen of the watering-places, this is the king. See how well fed
and fat the people are, men and women large and expansive, richly dressed, prosperous--looking!
What a contrast to the family sort of life at the White Sulphur! Here nobody, apparently, cares
for anybody else--not much; it is not to be expected that people should know each other in
such a heterogeneous concern; you see how comparatively few greetings there are on the piazzas
and in the parlors. You notice, too, that the types are not so distinctively American as at
the Southern resort--full faces, thick necks--more like Germans than Americans. And then the
everlasting white hats. And I suppose it is not certain that every man in a tall white hat
is a politician, or a railway magnate, or a sporting man.

These big hotels are an epitome of expansive, gorgeous American life. At the Grand Union, King
was No. 1710, and it seemed to him that he walked the length of the town to get to his room
after ascending four stories. He might as well, so far as exercise was concerned, have taken
an apartment outside. And the dining-room. Standing at the door, he had a vista of an eighth
of a mile of small tables, sparkling with brilliant service of glass and porcelain, chandeliers
and frescoed ceiling. What perfect appointments! what well-trained waiters!--perhaps they were
not waiters, for he was passed from one "officer" to another "officer" down to his place. At
the tables silent couples and restrained family parties, no hilarity, little talking; and what
a contrast this was to the happy-go-lucky service and jollity of the White Sulphur! Then the
interior parks of the United States and the Grand Union, with corridors and cottages, close-clipped
turf, banks of flowers, forest trees, fountains, and at night, when the band filled all the
air with seductive strains, the electric and the colored lights, gleaming through the foliage
and dancing on fountains and greensward, made a scene of enchantment. Each hotel was a village
in itself, and the thousands of guests had no more in common than the frequenters of New York
hotels and theatres. But what a paradise for lovers!

"It would be lonesome enough but for you, Irene," Stanhope said, as they sat one night on the
inner piazza of the Grand Union, surrendering themselves to all the charms of the scene.

"I love it all," she said, in the full tide of her happiness.

On another evening they were at the illumination of the Congress Spring Park. The scene seemed
the creation of magic. By a skillful arrangement of the colored globes an illusion of vastness
was created, and the little enclosure, with its glowing lights, was like the starry heavens
for extent. In the mass of white globes and colored lanterns of paper the eye was deceived
as to distances. The allies stretched away interminably, the pines seemed enormous, and the
green hillsides mountainous. Nor were charming single effects wanting. Down the winding walk
from the hill, touched by a distant electric light, the loitering people, in couples and in
groups, seemed no more in real life than the supernumeraries in a scene at the opera. Above,
in the illuminated foliage, were doubtless a castle and a broad terrace, with a row of statues,
and these gay promenaders were ladies and cavaliers in an old-time masquerade. The gilded kiosk
on the island in the centre of the miniature lake and the fairy bridge that leads to it were
outlined by colored globes; and the lake, itself set about with brilliants, reflected kiosk
and bridge and lights, repeating a hundredfold the fantastic scene, while from their island
retreat the band sent out through the illumined night strains of sentiment and gayety and sadness.
In the intervals of the music there was silence, as if the great throng were too deeply enjoying
this feast of the senses to speak. Perhaps a foreigner would have been impressed with the decorous
respectability of the assembly; he would have remarked that there were no little tables scattered
about the ground, no boys running about with foaming mugs of beer, no noise, no loud talking;
and how restful to all the senses!

Mrs. Bartlett Glow had the whim to devote herself to Mrs. Benson, and was repaid by the acquisition
of a great deal of information concerning the social and domestic, life in Cyrusville, Ohio,
and the maternal ambition for Irene. Stanhope and Irene sat a little apart from the others,
and gave themselves up to the witchery of the hour. It would not be easy to reproduce in type
all that they said; and what was most important to them, and would be most interesting to the
reader, are the things they did not say--the half exclamations, the delightful silences, the
tones, the looks that are the sign language of lovers. It was Irene who first broke the spell
of this delightful mode of communication, and in a pause of the music said, "Your cousin has
been telling me of your relatives in New York, and she told me more of yourself than you ever did."

"Very likely. Trust your friends for that. I hope she gave me a good character."

"Oh, she has the greatest admiration for you, and she said the family have the highest expectations
of your career. Why didn't you tell me you were the child of such hopes? It half frightened me."

"It must be appalling. What did she say of my uncle and aunts?"

"Oh, I cannot tell you, except that she raised an image in my mind of an awful vision of ancient
family and exclusiveness, the most fastidious, delightful, conventional people, she said, very
old family, looked down upon Washington Irving, don't you know, because he wrote. I suppose
she wanted to impress me with the value of the prize I've drawn, dear. But I should like you
just as well if your connections had not looked down on Irving. Are they so very high and mighty?"

"Oh, dear, no. Much like other people. My aunts are the dearest old ladies, just a little nearsighted,
you know, about seeing people that are not--well, of course, they live in a rather small world.
My uncle is a bachelor, rather particular, not what you would call a genial old man; been abroad
a good deal, and moved mostly in our set; sometimes I think he cares more for his descent than
for his position at the bar, which is a very respectable one, by the way. You know what an
old bachelor is who never has had anybody to shake him out of his contemplation of his family?"

"Do you think," said Irene, a little anxiously, letting her hand rest a moment upon Stanhope's,
"that they will like poor little me? I believe I am more afraid of the aunts than of the uncle.
I don't believe they will be as nice as your cousin."

"Of course they will like you. Everybody likes you. The aunts are just a little old-fashioned,
that is all. Habit has made them draw a social circle with a small radius. Some have one kind
of circle, some another. Of course my aunts are sorry for any one who is not descended from
the Van Schlovenhovens--the old Van Schlovenhoven had the first brewery of the colony in the
time of Peter Stuyvesant. In New York it's a family matter, in Philadelphia it's geographical.
There it's a question whether you live within the lines of Chestnut Street and Spruce Street--outside
of these in the city you are socially impossible: Mrs. Cortlandt told me that two Philadelphia
ladies who had become great friends at a summer resort--one lived within and the other without
the charmed lines--went back to town together in the autumn. At the station when they parted,
the 'inside' lady said to the other: 'Good-by. It has been such a pleasure to know you! I suppose
I shall see you sometimes at Moneymaker's!' Moneymaker's is the Bon Marche of Philadelphia."

The music ceased; the band were hurrying away; the people all over the grounds were rising
to go, lingering a little, reluctant to leave the enchanting scene. Irene wished, with a sigh,
that it might never end; unreal as it was, it was more native to her spirit than that future
which her talk with Stanhope had opened to her contemplation. An ill-defined apprehension possessed
her in spite of the reassuring presence of her lover and her perfect confidence in the sincerity
of his passion; and this feeling was somehow increased by the appearance of Mrs. Glow with
her mother; she could not shake off the uneasy suggestion of the contrast.

At the hour when the ladies went to their rooms the day was just beginning for a certain class
of the habitues. The parlors were nearly deserted, and few chairs were occupied on the piazzas,
but the ghosts of another generation seemed to linger, especially in the offices and barroom.
Flitting about were to be seen the social heroes who had a notoriety thirty and forty years
ago in the newspapers. This dried-up old man in a bronze wig, scuffling along in list slippers,
was a famous criminal lawyer in his day; this gentleman, who still wears an air of gallantry,
and is addressed as General, had once a reputation for successes in the drawing-room as well
as on the field of Mars; here is a genuine old beau, with the unmistakable self-consciousness
of one who has been a favorite of the sex, but who has slowly decayed in the midst of his cosmetics;
here saunter along a couple of actors with the air of being on the stage. These people all
have the "nightcap" habit, and drift along towards the bar-room--the last brilliant scene in
the drama of the idle day, the necessary portal to the realm of silence and sleep.

This is a large apartment, brightly lighted, with a bar extending across one end of it. Modern
taste is conspicuous here, nothing is gaudy, colors are subdued, and its decorations are simple
even the bar itself is refined, substantial, decorous, wanting entirely the meretricious glitter
and barbarous ornamentation of the old structures of this sort, and the attendants have wholly
laid aside the smart antics of the former bartender, and the customers are swiftly and silently
served by the deferential waiters. This is one of the most striking changes that King noticed
in American life.

There is a certain sort of life-whether it is worth seeing is a question that we can see nowhere
else, and for an hour Mr. Glow and King and Forbes, sipping their raspberry shrub in a retired
corner of the bar-room, were interested spectators of the scene. Through the padded swinging
doors entered, as in a play, character after character. Each actor as he entered stopped for
a moment and stared about him, and in this act revealed his character-his conceit, his slyness,
his bravado, his self-importance. There was great variety, but practically one prevailing type,
and that the New York politician. Most of them were from the city, though the country politician
apes the city politician as much as possible, but he lacks the exact air, notwithstanding the
black broadcloth and the white hat. The city men are of two varieties--the smart, perky-nosed,
vulgar young ward worker, and the heavy-featured, gross, fat old fellow. One after another
they glide in, with an always conscious air, swagger off to the bar, strike attitudes in groups,
one with his legs spread, another with a foot behind on tiptoe, another leaning against the
counter, and so pose, and drink "My respects"--all rather solemn and stiff, impressed perhaps
by the decorousness of the place, and conscious of their good clothes. Enter together three
stout men, a yard across the shoulders, each with an enormous development in front, waddle
up to the bar, attempt to form a triangular group for conversation, but find themselves too
far apart to talk in that position, and so arrange themselves side by side--a most distinguished-looking
party, like a portion of a swell-front street in Boston. To them swaggers up a young sport,
like one of Thackeray's figures in the "Irish Sketch-Book"--short, in a white hat, poor face,
impudent manner, poses before the swell fronts, and tosses off his glass. About a little table
in one corner are three excessively "ugly mugs," leering at each other and pouring down champagne.
These men are all dressed as nearly like gentlemen as the tailor can make them, but even he
cannot change their hard, brutal faces. It is not their fault that money and clothes do not
make a gentleman; they are well fed and vulgarly prosperous, and if you inquire you will find
that their women are in silks and laces. This is a good place to study the rulers of New York;
and impressive as they are in appearance, it is a relief to notice that they unbend to each
other, and hail one another familiarly as "Billy" and "Tommy." Do they not ape what is most
prosperous and successful in American life? There is one who in make-up, form, and air, even
to the cut of his side-whiskers, is an exact counterpart of the great railway king. Here is
a heavy-faced young fellow in evening dress, perhaps endeavoring to act the part of a gentleman,
who has come from an evening party unfortunately a little "slewed," but who does not know how
to sustain the character, for presently he becomes very familiar and confidential with the
dignified colored waiter at the buffet, who requires all his native politeness to maintain
the character of a gentleman for two.

If these men had millions, could they get any more enjoyment out of life? To have fine clothes,
drink champagne, and pose in a fashionable bar-room in the height of the season--is not this
the apotheosis of the "heeler" and the ward "worker"? The scene had a fascination for the artist,
who declared that he never tired watching the evolutions of the foreign element into the full
bloom of American citizenship.

XII. LAKE GEORGE, AND SARATOGA AGAIN

The intimacy between Mrs. Bartlett Glow and Irene increased as the days went by. The woman
of society was always devising plans for Irene's entertainment, and winning her confidence
by a thousand evidences of interest and affection. Pleased as King was with this at first,
he began to be annoyed at a devotion to which he could have no objection except that it often
came between him and the enjoyment of the girl's society alone; and latterly he had noticed
that her manner was more grave when they were together, and that a little something of reserve
mingled with her tenderness.

They made an excursion one day to Lake George--a poetical pilgrimage that recalled to some
of the party (which included some New Orleans friends) the romance of early days. To the Bensons
and the artist it was all new, and to King it was seen for the first time in the transforming
atmosphere of love. To men of sentiment its beauties will never be exhausted; but to the elderly
and perhaps rheumatic tourist the draughty steamboats do not always bring back the remembered
delight of youth. There is no pleasanter place in the North for a summer residence, but there
is a certain element of monotony and weariness inseparable from an excursion: travelers have
been known to yawn even on the Rhine. It was a gray day, the country began to show the approach
of autumn, and the view from the landing at Caldwell's, the head of the lake, was never more
pleasing. In the marshes the cat-tails and the faint flush of color on the alders and soft
maples gave a character to the low shore, and the gentle rise of the hills from the water's
edge combined to make a sweet and peaceful landscape.

The tourists find the steamer waiting for them at the end of the rail, and if they are indifferent
to the war romances of the place, as most of them are, they hurry on without a glance at the
sites of the famous old forts St. George and William Henry. Yet the head of the lake might
well detain them a few hours though they do not care for the scalping Indians and their sometime
allies the French or the English. On the east side the lake is wooded to the shore, and the
jutting points and charming bays make a pleasant outline to the eye. Crosbyside is the ideal
of a summer retreat, nestled in foliage on a pretty point, with its great trees on a sloping
lawn, boathouses and innumerable row and sail boats, and a lovely view, over the blue waters,
of a fine range of hills. Caldwell itself, on the west side, is a pretty tree-planted village
in a break in the hills, and a point above it shaded with great pines is a favorite rendezvous
for pleasure parties, who leave the ground strewn with egg-shells and newspapers. The Fort
William Henry Hotel was formerly the chief resort on the lake. It is a long, handsome structure,
with broad piazzas, and low evergreens and flowers planted in front. The view from it, under
the great pines, of the lake and the northern purple hills, is lovely. But the tide of travel
passes it by, and the few people who were there seemed lonesome. It is always so. Fashion demands
novelty; one class of summer boarders and tourists drives out another, and the people who want
to be sentimental at this end of the lake now pass it with a call, perhaps a sigh for the past,
and go on to fresh pastures where their own society is encamped.

Lake George has changed very much within ten years; hotels and great boarding-houses line the
shores; but the marked difference is in the increase of cottage life. As our tourists sailed
down the lake they were surprised by the number of pretty villas with red roofs peeping out
from the trees, and the occupation of every island and headland by gay and often fantastic
summer residences. King had heard this lake compared with Como and Maggiore, and as a patriot
he endeavored to think that its wild and sylvan loveliness was more pleasing than the romantic
beauty of the Italian lakes. But the effort failed. In this climate it is impossible that Horicon
should ever be like Como. Pretty hills and forests and temporary summer structures cannot have
the poetic or the substantial interest of the ancient villages and towns clinging to the hills,
the old stone houses, the vines, the ruins, the atmosphere of a long civilization. They do
the lovely Horicon no service who provoke such comparisons.

The lake has a character of its own. As the traveler sails north and approaches the middle
of the lake, the gems of green islands multiply, the mountains rise higher, and shouldering
up in the sky seem to bar a further advance; toward sunset the hills, which are stately but
lovely, a silent assembly of round and sharp peaks, with long, graceful slopes, take on exquisite
colors, violet, bronze, and green, and now and again a bold rocky bluff shines like a ruby
in the ruddy light. Just at dusk the steamer landed midway in the lake at Green Island, where
the scenery is the boldest and most romantic; from the landing a park-like lawn, planted with
big trees, slopes up to a picturesque hotel. Lights twinkled from many a cottage window and
from boats in the bay, and strains of music saluted the travelers. It was an enchanting scene.

The genius of Philadelphia again claims the gratitude of the tourist, for the Sagamore Hotel
is one of the most delightful hostelries in the world. A peculiar, interesting building, rambling
up the slope on different levels, so contrived that all the rooms are outside, and having a
delightful irregularity, as if the house had been a growth. Naturally a hotel so dainty in
its service and furniture, and so refined, was crowded to its utmost capacity. The artist could
find nothing to complain of in the morning except that the incandescent electric light in his
chamber went out suddenly at midnight and left him in blank darkness in the most exciting crisis
of a novel. Green Island is perhaps a mile long. A bridge connects it with the mainland, and
besides the hotel it has a couple of picturesque stone and timber cottages. At the north end
are the remains of the English intrenchments of 1755--signs of war and hate which kindly nature
has almost obliterated with sturdy trees. With the natural beauty of the island art has little
interfered; near the hotel is the most stately grove of white birches anywhere to be seen,
and their silvery sheen, with occasional patches of sedge, and the tender sort of foliage that
Corot liked to paint, gives an exceptional refinement to the landscape. One needs, indeed,
to be toned up by the glimpses, under the trees, over the blue water, of the wooded craggy
hills, with their shelf-like ledges, which are full of strength and character. The charm of
the place is due to this combination of loveliness and granitic strength.

Irene long remembered the sail of that morning, seated in the bow of the steamer with King,
through scenes of ever-changing beauty, as the boat wound about the headlands and made its
calls, now on one side and now on the other, at the pretty landings and decorated hotels. On
every hand was the gayety of summer life--a striped tent on a rocky point with a platform erected
for dancing, a miniature bark but on an island, and a rustic arched bridge to the mainland,
gaudy little hotels with winding paths along the shore, and at all the landings groups of pretty
girls and college lads in boating costume. It was wonderful how much these holiday makers were
willing to do for the entertainment of the passing travelers. A favorite pastime in this peaceful
region was the broom drill, and its execution gave an operatic character to the voyage. When
the steamer approaches, a band of young ladies in military ranks, clad in light marching costume,
each with a broom in place of a musket, descend to the landing and delight the spectators with
their warlike manoeuvres. The march in the broom-drill is two steps forward and one step back,
a mode of progression that conveys the notion of a pleasing indecision of purpose, which is
foreign to the character of these handsome Amazons, who are quite able to hold the wharf against
all comers. This act of war in fancy, dress, with its two steps forward and one back, and the
singing of a song, is one of the most fatal to the masculine peace of mind in the whole history
of carnage.

Mrs. Bartlett Glow, to be sure, thought it would be out of place at the Casino; but even she
had to admit that the American girl who would bewitch the foreigner with her one, two, and
one, and her flourish of broom on Lake George, was capable of freezing his ardor by her cool
good-breeding at Newport.

There was not much more to be done at Saratoga. Mrs. Benson had tried every spring in the valley,
and thus anticipated a remedy, as Mr. Benson said, for any possible "complaint" that might
visit her in the future. Mr. Benson himself said that he thought it was time for him to move
to a new piazza, as he had worn out half the chairs at the Grand Union. The Bartlett-Glows
were already due at Richfield; in fact, Penelope was impatient to go, now that she had persuaded
the Bensons to accompany her; and the artist, who had been for some time grumbling that there
was nothing left in Saratoga to draw except corks, reminded King of his agreement at Bar Harbor,
and the necessity he felt for rural retirement after having been dragged all over the continent.

On the last day Mr. Glow took King and Forbes off to the races, and Penelope and the Bensons
drove to the lake. King never could tell why he consented to this arrangement, but he knew
in a vague way that it is useless to attempt to resist feminine power, that shapes our destiny
in spite of all our rough-hewing of its outlines. He had become very uneasy at the friendship
between Irene and Penelope, but he could give no reason for his suspicion, for it was the most
natural thing in the world for his cousin to be interested in the girl who was about to come
into the family. It seemed also natural that Penelope should be attracted by her nobility of
nature. He did not know till afterwards that it was this very nobility and unselfishness which
Penelope saw could be turned to account for her own purposes. Mrs. Bartlett Glow herself would
have said that she was very much attached to Irene, and this would have been true; she would
have said also that she pitied her, and this would have been true; but she was a woman whose
world was bounded by her own social order, and she had no doubt in her own mind that she was
loyal to the best prospects of her cousin, and, what was of more importance, that she was protecting
her little world from a misalliance when she preferred Imogene Cypher to Irene Benson. In fact,
the Bensons in her set were simply an unthinkable element. It disturbed the established order
of things. If any one thinks meanly of Penelope for counting upon the heroism of Irene to effect
her unhappiness, let him reflect of how little consequence is the temporary happiness of one
or two individuals compared with the peace and comfort of a whole social order. And she might
also well make herself believe that she was consulting the best interests of Irene in keeping
her out of a position where she might be subject to so many humiliations. She was capable of
crying over the social adventures of the heroine of a love story, and taking sides with her
against the world, but as to the actual world itself, her practical philosophy taught her that
it was much better always, even at the cost of a little heartache in youth, to go with the
stream than against it.

The lake at Saratoga is the most picturesque feature of the region, and would alone make the
fortune of any other watering-place. It is always a surprise to the stranger, who has bowled
along the broad drive of five miles through a pleasing but not striking landscape, to come
suddenly, when he alights at the hotel, upon what seems to be a "fault," a sunken valley, and
to look down a precipitous, grassy, tree-planted slope upon a lake sparkling at the bottom
and reflecting the enclosing steep shores. It is like an aqua-marine gem countersunk in the
green landscape. Many an hour had Irene and Stanhope passed in dreamy contemplation of it.
They had sailed down the lake in the little steamer, they had whimsically speculated about
this and that couple who took their ices or juleps under the trees or on the piazza of the
hotel, and the spot had for them a thousand tender associations. It was here that Stanhope
had told her very fully the uneventful story of his life, and it was here that she had grown
into full sympathy with his aspirations for the future.

It was of all this that Irene thought as she sat talking that day with Penelope on a bench
at the foot of the hill by the steamboat landing. It was this very future that the woman of
the world was using to raise in the mind of Irene a morbid sense of her duty. Skillfully with
this was insinuated the notion of the false and contemptible social pride and exclusiveness
of Stanhope's relations, which Mrs. Bartlett Glow represented as implacable while she condemned
it as absurd. There was not a word of opposition to the union of Irene and Stanhope: Penelope
was not such a bungler as to make that mistake. It was not her cue to definitely suggest a
sacrifice for the welfare of her cousin. If she let Irene perceive that she admired the courage
in her that could face all these adverse social conditions that were conjured up before her,
Irene could never say that Penelope had expressed anything of the sort. Her manner was affectionate,
almost caressing; she declared that she felt a sisterly interest in her. This was genuine enough.
I am not sure that Mrs. Bartlett Glow did not sometimes waver in her purpose when she was in
the immediate influence of the girl's genuine charm, and felt how sincere she was. She even
went so far as to wish to herself that Irene had been born in her own world.

It was not at all unnatural that Irene should have been charmed by Penelope, and that the latter
should gradually have established an influence over her. She was certainly kind-hearted, amiable,
bright, engaging. I think all those who have known her at Newport, or in her New York home,
regard her as one of the most charming women in the world. Nor is she artificial, except as
society requires her to be, and if she regards the conventions of her own set as the most important
things in life, therein she does not differ from hosts of excellent wives and mothers. Irene,
being utterly candid herself, never suspected that Penelope had at all exaggerated the family
and social obstacles, nor did it occur to her to doubt Penelope's affection for her. But she
was not blind. Being a woman, she comprehended perfectly the indirection of a woman's approaches,
and knew well enough by this time that Penelope, whatever her personal leanings, must feel
with her family in regard to this engagement. And that she, who was apparently her friend,
and who had Stanhope's welfare so much at heart, did so feel was an added reason why Irene
was drifting towards a purpose of self-sacrifice. When she was with Stanhope such a sacrifice
seemed as impossible as it would be cruel, but when she was with Mrs. Bartlett Glow, or alone,
the subject took another aspect. There is nothing more attractive to a noble woman of tender
heart than a duty the performance of which will make her suffer. A false notion of duty has
to account for much of the misery in life.

It was under this impression that Irene passed the last evening at Saratoga with Stanhope on
the piazza of the hotel--an evening that the latter long remembered as giving him the sweetest
and the most contradictory and perplexing glimpses of a woman's heart.

XIII. RICHFIELD SPRINGS, COOPERSTOWN

After weeks of the din of Strauss and Gungl, the soothing strains of the Pastoral Symphony.
Now no more the kettle-drum and the ceaseless promenade in showy corridors, but the oaten pipe
under the spreading maples, the sheep feeding on the gentle hills of Otsego, the carnival of
the hop-pickers. It is time to be rural, to adore the country, to speak about the dew on the
upland pasture, and the exquisite view from Sunset Hill. It is quite English, is it not? this
passion for quiet, refined country life, which attacks all the summer revelers at certain periods
in the season, and sends them in troops to Richfield or Lenox or some other peaceful retreat,
with their simple apparel bestowed in modest fourstory trunks. Come, gentle shepherdesses,
come, sweet youths in white flannel, let us tread a measure on the greensward, let us wander
down the lane, let us pass under the festoons of the hop-vines, let us saunter in the paths
of sentiment, that lead to love in a cottage and a house in town.

Every watering-place has a character of its own, and those who have given little thought to
this are surprised at the endless variety in the American resorts. But what is even more surprising
is the influence that these places have upon the people that frequent them, who appear to change
their characters with their surroundings. One woman in her season plays many parts, dashing
in one place, reserved in another, now gay and active, now listless and sentimental, not at
all the same woman at Newport that she is in the Adirondack camps, one thing at Bar Harbor
and quite another at Saratoga or at Richfield. Different tastes, to be sure, are suited at
different resorts, but fashion sends a steady procession of the same people on the round of all.

The charm of Richfield Springs is in the character of the landscape. It is a limestone region
of gentle slopes and fine lines; and although it is elevated, the general character is refined
rather than bold, the fertile valleys in pleasing irregularity falling away from rounded wooded
hills in a manner to produce the impression of peace and repose. The lay of the land is such
that an elevation of a few hundred feet gives a most extensive prospect, a view of meadows
and upland pastures, of lakes and ponds, of forests hanging in dark masses on the limestone
summits, of fields of wheat and hops, and of distant mountain ranges. It is scenery that one
grows to love, and that responds to one's every mood in variety and beauty. In a whole summer
the pedestrian will not exhaust the inspiring views, and the drives through the gracious land,
over hills, round the lakes, by woods and farms, increase in interest as one knows them better.
The habitues of the place, year after year, are at a loss for words to convey their peaceful
satisfaction.

In this smiling country lies the pretty village of Richfield, the rural character of which
is not entirely lost by reason of the hotels, cottages, and boardinghouses which line the broad
principal street. The centre of the town is the old Spring House and grounds. When our travelers
alighted in the evening at this mansion, they were reminded of an English inn, though it is
not at all like an inn in England except in its atmosphere of comfort. The building has rather
a colonial character, with its long corridors and pillared piazzas; built at different times,
and without any particular plans except to remain old-fashioned, it is now a big, rambling
white mass of buildings in the midst of maple-trees, with so many stairs and passages on different
levels, and so many nooks and corners, that the stranger is always getting lost in it--turning
up in the luxurious smoking-room when he wants to dine, and opening a door that lets him out
into the park when he is trying to go to bed. But there are few hotels in the country where
the guests are so well taken care of.

This was the unbought testimony of Miss Lamont, who, with her uncle, had been there long enough
to acquire the common anxiety of sojourners that the newcomers should be pleased, and who superfluously
explained the attractions of the place to the artist, as if in his eyes, that rested on her,
more than one attraction was needed. It was very pleasant to see the good comradeship that
existed between these two, and the frank expression of their delight in meeting again. Here
was a friendship without any reserve, or any rueful misunderstandings, or necessity for explanations. November, at the conclusion
the experiment, which looked to tubers located entirely unchanged. The pseudobulbs themselves
were, however, was greatly diminished, and indeed were those who still possessed a hand much
more wrinkled than those of the leaves were completely stripped. I would attempt may have performed
in Europe but in somewhat more precise way, the result was yet completely clear.

Apart from the leaves and pseudobulbs can also, although in any event are scarce, the Roots as
the main storage organ used for water. The only case I know of this type is, except the later
to be discussed Aëranthus species, Isochilus linearis, a Laeliee which I partly in the West Indies,
Venezuela and southern Brazil in shady, partly in bright locations occasionally found. The
very long, stiff shoots are thin and too thin, small leaves provided; pseudobulbs absent, however,
are the roots remarkably thick and juicy. Microscopic examination of the latter revealed that her
powerful Cortical parenchyma, just as in so many pseudo-bulbs, numerous large water cells between starch-containing.
I did try, however, for lack of time, with this Art can not hire.

A highly developed water storage-or tissue in the leaves or pseudobulbs
is by far the great majority of epiphytic orchids, which I on my tropical
got to travel to see.

Such protective devices against Wassernoth are not as P. KRUGER assume on the basis of the literature
to be able to think for the people especially dry, characteristically sunny locations, but invariably
come to the many forms in the humid air and the light dimmed, the upper branches of forest trees
overgrow. Also among those in the rest of epiphytic plant life favorable conditions, the presence
necessity of water containers in the nature of the substrate, and it even would be a mistake,
to believe that such species in a very sunny, dry locations would be particularly developed;
if identifiable, the means of protection in such cases, but mainly in Reduction transpire the surface
(Oncidium, Jonopsis, Brassavola, Cattleya species, etc.). I took on massive, heaped one upon another
boulder at Desterro Pleurothallis copies of a type, the exposed part of the largest solar glow,
and partly in deep shade, humus-leading Hide grew, the difference in the size of transpire surface
was very striking, during the formation of the tissue water and the cuticle was about the same.
The only at the driest, sunniest locations occurring Cattleya bicolor has in its succulent, fleshy leaves
and weak stems not differentiated water swollen tissue.

After forming the foregoing, both the orchids that grow in the crown of forest trees, than those
who live in very dry and sunny locations, Wasservorräthe. The influence the unequal conditions
of existence, however, shows that the light of direct sun prosperous
and forms are knollenlos dickblätterig, while the thin sheet quality,
tuber-forming Species in general, a more humid air claim.

I have to this rule only a few Exceptions seen.

Epiphytic orchids, which accumulate in any of its bodies of water are only in the deep Shadows
of the jungle before, as some types of Zygopetalum, stelis and dainty Neottieengattung Stenoptera.

6.
We find in the forms of this group not only protection against desiccation, but and devices
through which the scarce nutrients of the substrate as the epiphytic
get good, trained.

We have in this regard, sometimes the epiphytic Vegetation at all characterize peculiarities
highlighted the planar propagation and emphasizes its importance. The latter is especially among the epiphytes,
which only appear on the bark -expansion is the substances formed.

We need not the way to this phenomenon return. The aerial roots of many of these epiphytes differ
among the rest in any essential Points of soil from roots, as for instance, in all the dicotyledons,
however, are almost All the epiphytic orchids and aroids provided with multiple roots, the
construction of a fastest possible absorption of the rain and Thauwassers permitted, even on free-to the
surface of the cortex creeping Roots healing, while in other epiphytes such exposed for Make corked
and little water permeable. Every traveler in the tropics is often on the surface arid bark or
on bare rock walls exposed to direct sunlight, have seen snow-white aerial roots (such as Cattleya
bicolor on the island of Santa Catharina), the inner tissues are always juicy, while their air-conducting
white envelope every drop of water same blotting paper absorbs. In this way, those plants
that only the Families of orchids and aroids belong, even in a very smooth surface (for example,
get away on leaves), while the most frugal of the other epiphytes this group always though require
such tight cracks or other hiding places for their absorbent roots.

The construction of the aerial roots of epiphytic orchids and aroids to it closing, the Velamen
properties of the water absorbent, the outer endodermis are, thanks in particular the extensive investigations
Leitgeb's, to accurately and well known here for a detailed To require treatment. Only a few
lesser-known or particularly important for our topic Phenomena may find something more detailed
consideration.

It is probably the most widespread opinion that the roots of epiphytic and of terrestrial orchids
consistently differ from each other by the former provided with velamen , while the latter lack
of one. In reality, there is, though very rare, epiphytic orchids without velamen and terrestrial with
velamen.

Roots, which differ in any way from those of terrestrial forms, have I at an unspecified type
of Stenoptera found, perhaps the only epiphytic Neottieen-class America, where their few species
in Bentham and Hooker, which gives them a terrestrial Attribute of life, the West Indies,
Bolivia and Brazil, live.

The tiny plantlets grows in the shade, on cracking or mossy bark, roots differ in no essential
Points from those of other terrestrial Neottieen from.

The many epiphytic orchids, which I on my travels and in tropical greenhouses seen, however,
the velamen was always present. I was inclined to the same thing as an adjustment conceive of the
epiphytic life, and believed at first in the Stenoptera of Blumenau
to have found a way of remaining in the original condition would be.

Subsequent findings I have made but not impossible that the terrestrial ancestors of the velamen provided
epiphytes already possessed such. A closer examination of Epidendrum cinnabarinum showed me,
namely, that the roots of this purely terrestrial form in no essential Points from those of many
epiphytic species of the same genus differ. Except the ground roots develop the long, thin bunches
short axes of the plant aerial roots, the benefits of which I have remained unclear. Epidendrun
cinnabarinum and probably quite like behavior in E. Schomburgkii are thin, light Capoeirawäldern the
coast of Santa Catharina very often, but seem to never grow epiphytic.

7. The aerial roots of epiphytic orchids, and most plants are chlorophyllhaltig and therefore
are able to assimilate, the latter function is usually but again much the leaves, as the result
of their roots in the darkest negative heliotropism accessible places to visit. Play at several
species of the genus, however, the Aëranthus Rooted in assimilation
a much more substantial role exist in the same individual the vegetative
parts almost exclusively from a powerful, leafy root system, while
the leaves omissions and the strain is reduced to tiny dimensions.

These strange shapes are no doubt on the principle of reduction due to the surface transpire that
so many wonderful plant forms has caused (8). The reduction of vegetative parts assimilating
to a root system but for us, therefore, of particular interest because the same, except for aquatic
plants, bare only in the epiphytes and the inhabitants of them as similar rock walls could
come for training.

From personal experience I know of only two species belonging here, Aëranthus funalis, which I
first cultivated in Trinidad, later growing wild in Venezuela saw, and not a particular Art, of which
I found a single small specimen near Blumenau.

Aëranthus funalis consists of a thick tuft of quill thick, cylindrical, to a large Part of free
hanging roots from a very tiny scales covered by brown nodules arise.

Once or twice a year rises from the base of the shoot, an almost needle-thin, leafless lateral
shoots with large, yellowish-green flowers, which after Fruit ripening, or, if no fertilization occurred,
dried up after the withering of the flowers and falls off.

The activity of the assimilating shoot parts is quite insignificant, the plant or more for their
food almost entirely dependent on the powerful root system, which virtue of his velamen the water absorbs
the organic matter from the inorganic raw material produced, stored up the surplus of water
and organic products, in a word All the vegetative functions of stem, root and leaf into one
product.

Their manifold functions in accordance with, the root of Aëranthus funalis differs in some Points
from that of leafy orchids from, in connection with assimilation is their much greater abundance of chlorophyll,
the lower thickness of its velamen, which also shine through in the dry state, the green fabric
leaves; the needs of Wasserregulirung correspond to water and peculiar
cells through-passages for gases, which seems exactly the same meaning
for transpiration, such as the stomata belongs, and the naked Eye,
especially after moistening, white stripes represent (9), which completely
impermeable to water , while gases pass through them unimpeded.

The accumulation of reserve starch is place in the deep areas of the bark parenchyma. Finally, it
should be noted that the insignificant Development of shoot parts according to the vascular
bundles are much reduced, while the larger as a result of the free, hanging Wachsthumsmodus
of most members of the root system Requirements to train and bending strength due to strong thickening
of the inner and velamen Endodermis, and by strong sclerosis of the interstitial tissue in
the vascular bundle is enough.

Much more leaf-like than in Ae. funalis are the roots of the otherwise very similar to Ae. Fasciola
from Guatemala, which recently subjected to scrutiny by Janczewski were, and what a few Brazilian
species, of which I Alcoholmaterial my H. SCHENCK friends owe join. These species are the
roots flat and a very similar dorsiventrality as leaves provided. The bottom, by a strong midrib
is traversed, with the velamen and the stomata the Pneumathoden and the top is flat, green, devoid
of velamen and performed primarily the functions of carbon assimilation.

The dorsiventrality is, after Janczewski, in Ae. Fasciola as independent of external Circumstances
such as leaves. The roots of AE. funalis other hand, are in the suspended state Built radially,
while, in case they crawl on the bark, her velamen at the bottom something powerful and thin-walled.
A similar work, the light-related dorsiventrality comes from the investigations Janczewski's the
aerial roots of several, but not all epiphytic Orchids.

8.

The means which enable the epiphytes of the first group to thrive on tree bark, have been
said for the most part those which most atmospheric plants get: planar propagation, accumulation
of water, strong design of the cuticle. These protective agents are but in this group, with
the exception of the pronounced shadow ferns, perfectly formed as the majority of epiphytes not
belonging here, which provide by special devices, a more abundant nutrient solution. Only with representatives
this group, but only a few, we find the ability to major water loss
to endure without damage.

We also found only in this lowest level of Epiphytismus here and there, especially in orchids,
strong reduction of the surface transpire as a protective agent trained on peculiarities in
the leafless Aëranthus species, which are the most striking Adjustment within the first group provide.
Finally it should be emphasized that by far the great majority of epiphytic orchids and aroids
with velamen exclusively on the nutrients in the cortex are dependent, so that the latter almost
as a peculiarity the first group can be considered.

On the whole, although the protective agents are usually combinirt each other, very lush plant life
not at the expense of humus in the cortex and located in the moss nutrient solution possible, almost All
the species are herbs in the first group of low or medium size, and the few shrubs thrive in the shade
on very chapped or mossy bark. The most impressive associated species known to me here is the
South Brazilian Philodendron cannifolium, that thanks to the powerful training and the slimy
contents of his intercellular system, enormous Amounts of rain and Thauwasser stores up and the
dimensions of this plant but under the epiphytes of the other groups
are not only very common, but are often far exceeded.

III. Second group (10).

The root system consists of epiphytes, not only in monocots, but also in the Dicotyledons,
except during the germination period, exclusively from adventitious roots - a direct effect
of the substrate, similar to how it shows in Europe, in trees, growing on walls or rocks.

Where the adventitious roots of epiphytes are very long, it may happen
that, without significantly geotropic to be back and get back on the
ground, from which at any rate an advantage for the plant grows, such
behavior can be, for example, in large Cactaceae in Symphysia guadelupensis,
Schlegelia parasitica observed.

What with the last mentioned epiphytes only by chance and by no means always happens, constant
in others by some of the roots have expressed positive geotropism; thus acts include the shrubby
Rubiaceae Hillia parasitica, however, it seemed, is connected late
with the ground.

The location is perfect and is adapted Blakea laurifolia Naud., a beautiful shrub-to tree-like Melastomacee
the Lesser Antilles, from whose roots spring from short trunk, which are partly very positive
geotropic and grow relatively quickly to the ground, partly lack of geotropism seemingly and form a fine,
tangled web to the supporting tree trunk.

In the mentioned cases, despite great effort of material still achieved relatively little; the connection
of the epiphytes to the ground is still imperfect, and therefore we see the aforementioned Plants
grow to only humus-rich substrate in wet locations. These plants are at a lower level of adaptation
and its remaining roots have essentially the Properties retain who approached her on the floor
growing parent.
 They called King's attention to a great many features of the landscape he
had never noticed before, and asked him a great many questions about farming and stock and
wages that he could not answer. It appeared that Mr. Stanley Stubbs, Stoke-Cruden--for that
was the name and address of the present discoverers of America--had a herd of short-horns,
and that Mrs. Stubbs was even more familiar with the herd-book than her husband. But before
the fact had enabled King to settle the position of his new acquaintance satisfactorily to
himself, Mrs. Stubbs upset his estimate by quoting Tennyson.

"Your great English poet is very much read here," King said, by way of being agreeable.

"So we have heard," replied Mrs. Stubbs. "Mr. Stubbs reads Tennyson beautifully. He has thought
of giving some readings while we are here. We have been told that the Americans are very fond
of readings."

"Yes," said King, "they are devoted to them, especially readings by Englishmen in their native
tongue. There is a great rage now for everything English; at Newport hardly anything else is
spoken."

Mrs. Stubbs looked for a moment as if this might be an American joke; but there was no smile
upon King's face, and she only said, "Fancy! You must make a note of Newport, dear. That is
one of the places we must see. Of course Mr. Stubbs has never read in public, you know. But
I suppose that would make no difference, the Americans are so kind and so appreciative."

"Not the least difference," replied King. "They are used to it."

"It is a wonderful country," said Mr. Stubbs.

"Most interesting," chimed in Mrs. Stubbs; "and so odd!

"You know, Mr. King, we find some of the Americans so clever. We have been surprised, really.
It makes us feel quite at home. At the hotels and everywhere, most obliging."

"Do you make a long stay?"

"Oh, no. We just want to study the people and the government, and see the principal places.
We were told that Albany is the capital, instead of New York; it's so odd, you know. And Washington
is another capital. And there is Boston. It must be very confusing." King began to suspect
that he must be talking with the editor of the Saturday Review. Mr. Stubbs continued: "They
told us in New York that we ought to go to Paterson on the Island of Jersey, I believe. I suppose
it is as interesting as Niagara. We shall visit it on our return. But we came over more to
see Niagara than anything else. And from there we shall run over to Chicago and the Yosemite.
Now we are here, we could not think of going back without a look at the Yosemite."

King said that thus far he had existed without seeing the Yosemite, but he believed that next
to Chicago it was the most attractive place in the country.

It was dark when they came into the station at Niagara--dark and silent. Our American tourists,
who were accustomed to the clamor of the hackmen here, and expected to be assaulted by a horde
of wild Comanches in plain clothes, and torn limb from baggage, if not limb from limb, were
unable to account for this silence, and the absence of the common highwaymen, until they remembered
that the State had bought the Falls, and the agents of the government had suppressed many of
the old nuisances. It was possible now to hear the roar of the cataract.

This unaccustomed human stillness was ominous to King. He would have welcomed a Niagara of
importunity and imprecations; he was bursting with impatience to express himself; it seemed
as if he would die if he were silent an hour longer under that letter. Of course the usual
American relief of irritability and impatience suggested itself. He would telegraph; only electricity
was quick enough and fiery enough for his mood. But what should he telegraph? The telegraph
was not invented for love-making, and is not adapted to it. It is ridiculous to make love by
wire. How was it possible to frame a message that should be commercial on its face, and yet
convey the deepest agony and devotion of the sender's heart? King stood at the little telegraph
window, looking at the despatcher who was to send it, and thought of this. Depressed and intent
as he was, the whimsicality of the situation struck him. What could he say? It illustrates
our sheeplike habit of expressing ourselves in the familiar phrase or popular slang of the
day that at the instant the only thing King could think of to send was this: "Hold the fort,
for I am coming." The incongruity of this made him smile, and he did not write it. Finally
he composed this message, which seemed to him to have a businesslike and innocent aspect: "Too
late. Impossible for me to change. Have invested everything. Expect letter." Mechanically he
counted the words when he had written this. On the fair presumption that the company would
send "everything" as one word, there were still two more than the conventional ten, and, from
force of habit, he struck out the words "for me." But he had no sooner done this than he felt
a sense of shame. It was contemptible for a man in love to count his words, and it was intolerable
to be haggling with himself at such a crisis over the expense of a despatch. He got cold over
the thought that Irene might also count them, and see that the cost of this message of passion
had been calculated. And with recklessness he added: "We reach the Profile House next week,
and I am sure I can convince you I am right."

King found Niagara pitched to the key of his lacerated and tumultuous feelings. There were
few people at the Cataract House, and either the bridal season had not set in, or in America
a bride has been evolved who does not show any consciousness of her new position. In his present
mood the place seemed deserted, the figures of the few visitors gliding about as in a dream,
as if they too had been subdued by the recent commission which had silenced the drivers, and
stopped the mills, and made the park free, and was tearing down the presumptuous structures
along the bank. In this silence, which emphasized the quaking of the earth and air, there was
a sense of unknown, impending disaster. It was not to be borne indoors, and the two friends
went out into the night.

On the edge of the rapids, above the hotel, the old bath-house was in process of demolition,
its shaking piazza almost overhanging the flood. Not much could be seen from it, but it was
in the midst of an elemental uproar. Some electric lamps shining through the trees made high
lights on the crests of the rapids, while the others near were in shadow and dark. The black
mass of Goat Island appeared under the lightning flashes in the northwest sky, and whenever
these quick gleams pierced the gloom the frail bridge to the island was outlined for a moment,
and then vanished as if it had been swept away, and there could only be seen sparks of light
in the houses on the Canadian shore, which seemed very near. In this unknown, which was rather
felt than seen, there was a sense of power and of mystery which overcame the mind; and in the
black night the roar, the cruel haste of the rapids, tossing white gleams and hurrying to the
fatal plunge, begat a sort of terror in the spectators. It was a power implacable, vengeful,
not to be measured. They strolled down to Prospect Park. The gate was closed; it had been the
scene of an awful tragedy but a few minutes before. They did not know it, but they knew that
the air shuddered, and as they skirted the grounds along the way to the foot-bridge the roar
grew in their stunned ears. There, projected out into the night, were the cables of steel holding
the frail platform over the abyss of night and terror. Beyond was Canada. There was light enough
in the sky to reveal, but not to dissipate, the appalling insecurity. What an impious thing
it seemed to them, this trembling structure across the chasm! They advanced upon it. There
were gleams on the mill cascades below, and on the mass of the American Fall. Below, down in
the gloom, were patches of foam, slowly circling around in the eddy--no haste now, just sullen
and black satisfaction in the awful tragedy of the fall. The whole was vague, fearful. Always
the roar, the shuddering of the air. I think that a man placed on this bridge at night, and
ignorant of the cause of the aerial agitation and the wild uproar, could almost lose his reason
in the panic of the scene. They walked on; they set foot on Her Majesty's dominions; they entered
the Clifton House--quite American, you know, with its new bar and office. A subdued air about
everybody here also, and the same quaking, shivering, and impending sense of irresponsible
force. Even "two fingers," said the artist, standing at the bar, had little effect in allaying
the impression of the terror out there. When they returned the moon was coming up, rising and
struggling and making its way slowly through ragged masses of colored clouds. The river could
be plainly seen now, smooth, deep, treacherous; the falls on the American side showed fitfully
like patches of light and foam; the Horseshoe, mostly hidden by a cold silver mist, occasionally
loomed up a white and ghostly mass. They stood for a long time looking down at the foot of
the American Fall, the moon now showing clearly the plunge of the heavy column--a column as
stiff as if it were melted silver-hushed and frightened by the weird and appalling scene. They
did not know at that moment that there where their eyes were riveted, there at the base of
the fall, a man's body was churning about, plunged down and cast up, and beaten and whirled,
imprisoned in the refluent eddy. But a body was there. In the morning a man's overcoat was
found on the parapet at the angle of the fall. Someone then remembered that in the evening,
just before the park gate closed, he had seen a man approach the angle of the wall where the
overcoat was found. The man was never seen after that. Night first, and then the hungry water,
swallowed him. One pictures the fearful leap into the dark, the midway repentance, perhaps,
the despair of the plunge. A body cast in here is likely to tarry for days, eddying round and
round, and tossed in that terrible maelstrom, before a chance current ejects it, and sends
it down the fierce rapids below. King went back to the hotel in a terror of the place, which
did not leave him so long as he remained. His room quivered, the roar filled all the air. Is
not life real and terrible enough, he asked himself, but that brides must cast this experience
also into their honeymoon?

The morning light did not efface the impressions of the night, the dominating presence of a
gigantic, pitiless force, a blind passion of nature, uncontrolled and uncontrollable. Shut
the windows and lock the door, you could not shut out the terror of it. The town did not seem
safe; the bridges, the buildings on the edge of the precipices with their shaking casements,
the islands, might at any moment be engulfed and disappear. It was a thing to flee from.

I suspect King was in a very sensitive mood; the world seemed for the moment devoid of human
sympathy, and the savageness and turmoil played upon his bare nerves. The artist himself shrank
from contact with this overpowering display, and said that he could not endure more than a
day or two of it. It needed all the sunshine in the face of Miss Lamont and the serenity of
her cheerful nature to make the situation tolerable, and even her sprightliness was somewhat
subdued. It was a day of big, broken, high-sailing clouds, with a deep blue sky and strong
sunlight. The slight bridge to Goat Island appeared more presumptuous by daylight, and the
sharp slope of the rapids above it gave a new sense of the impetuosity of the torrent. As they
walked slowly on, past the now abandoned paper-mills and the other human impertinences, the
elemental turmoil increased, and they seemed entering a world the foundations of which were
broken up. This must have been a good deal a matter of impression, for other parties of sightseers
were coming and going, apparently unawed, and intent simply on visiting every point spoken
of in the guide-book, and probably unconscious of the all-pervading terror. But King could
not escape it, even in the throng descending and ascending the stairway to Luna Island. Standing
upon the platform at the top, he realized for the first time the immense might of the downpour
of the American Fall, and noted the pale green color, with here and there a violet tone, and
the white cloud mass spurting out from the solid color. On the foam-crested river lay a rainbow
forming nearly a complete circle. The little steamer Maid of the Mist was coming up, riding
the waves, dashed here and there by conflicting currents, but resolutely steaming on--such
is the audacity of man--and poking her venturesome nose into the boiling foam under the Horseshoe.
On the deck are pigmy passengers in oil-skin suits, clumsy figures, like arctic explorers.
The boat tosses about like a chip, it hesitates and quivers, and then, slowly swinging, darts
away down the current, fleeing from the wrath of the waters, and pursued by the angry roar.

Surely it is an island of magic, unsubstantial, liable to go adrift and plunge into the canon.
Even in the forest path, where the great tree trunks assure one of stability and long immunity,
this feeling cannot be shaken off. Our party descended the winding staircase in the tower,
and walked on the shelf under the mighty ledge to the entrance of the Cave of the Winds. The
curtain of water covering this entrance was blown back and forth by the wind, now leaving the
platform dry and now deluging it. A woman in the pathway was beckoning frantically and calling
to a man who stood on the platform, entirely unconscious of danger, looking up to the green
curtain and down into the boiling mist. It was Mrs. Stubbs; but she was shouting against Niagara,
and her husband mistook her pantomime for gestures of wonder and admiration. Some moments passed,
and then the curtain swung in, and tons of water drenched the Englishman, and for an instant
hid him from sight. Then, as the curtain swung back, he was seen clinging to the handrail,
sputtering and astonished at such treatment. He came up the bank dripping, and declaring that
it was extraordinary, most extraordinary, but he wouldn't have missed it for the world. From
this platform one looks down the narrow, slippery stairs that are lost in the boiling mist,
and wonders at the daring that built these steps down into that hell, and carried the frail
walk of planks over the bowlders outside the fall. A party in oil-skins, making their way there,
looked like lost men and women in a Dante Inferno. The turbulent waters dashed all about them;
the mist occasionally wrapped them from sight; they clung to the rails, they tried to speak
to each other; their gestures seemed motions of despair. Could that be Eurydice whom the rough
guide was tenderly dragging out of the hell of waters, up the stony path, that singular figure
in oil-skin trousers, who disclosed a pretty face inside her hood as she emerged? One might
venture into the infernal regions to rescue such a woman; but why take her there? The group
of adventurers stopped a moment on the platform, with the opening into the misty cavern for
a background, and the artist said that the picture was, beyond all power of the pencil, strange
and fantastic. There is nothing, after all, that the human race will not dare for a new sensation.

The walk around Goat Island is probably unsurpassed in the world for wonder and beauty. The
Americans have every reason to be satisfied with their share of the fall; they get nowhere
one single grand view like that from the Canada side, but infinitely the deepest impression
of majesty and power is obtained on Goat Island. There the spectator is in the midst of the
war of nature. From the point over the Horseshoe Fall our friends, speaking not much, but more
and more deeply moved, strolled along in the lovely forest, in a rural solemnity, in a local
calm, almost a seclusion, except for the ever-present shuddering roar in the air. On the shore
above the Horseshoe they first comprehended the breadth, the great sweep, of the rapids. The
white crests of the waves in the west were coming out from under a black, lowering sky; all
the foreground was in bright sunlight, dancing, sparkling, leaping, hurrying on, converging
to the angle where the water becomes a deep emerald at the break and plunge. The rapids above
are a series of shelves, bristling with jutting rocks and lodged trunks of trees, and the wildness
of the scene is intensified by the ragged fringe of evergreens on the opposite shore.

Over the whole island the mist, rising from the caldron, drifts in spray when the wind is rable;
but on this day the forest was bright and cheerful, and as the strollers went farther away
from the Great Fall; the beauty of the scene began to steal away its terror. The roar was still
dominant, but far off and softened, and did not crush the ear. The triple islands, the Three
Sisters, in their picturesque wildness appeared like playful freaks of nature in a momentary
relaxation of the savage mood. Here is the finest view of the river; to one standing on the
outermost island the great flood seems tumbling out of the sky. They continued along the bank
of the river. The shallow stream races by headlong, but close to the edge are numerous eddies,
and places where one might step in and not be swept away. At length they reached the point
where the river divides, and the water stands for an instant almost still, hesitating whether
to take the Canadian or American plunge. Out a little way from the shore the waves leap and
tumble, and the two currents are like race-horses parted on two ways to the goal. Just at this
point the water swirls and lingers; having lost all its fierceness and haste, and spreads itself
out placidly, dimpling in the sun. It may be a treacherous pause, this water may be as cruel
as that which rages below and exults in catching a boat or a man and bounding with the victim
over the cataract; but the calm was very grateful to the stunned and buffeted visitors; upon
their jarred nerves it was like the peace of God.

"The preacher might moralize here," said King. "Here is the parting of the ways for the young
man; here is a moment of calm in which he can decide which course he will take. See, with my
hand I can turn the water to Canada or to America! So momentous is the easy decision of the
moment."

"Yes," said the artist, "your figure is perfect. Whichever side the young man takes, he goes
to destruction."

"Or," continued King, appealing to Miss Lamont against this illogical construction, "this is
the maiden at the crucial instant of choosing between two impetuous suitors."

"You mean she will be sorry, whichever she chooses?"

"You two practical people would spoil any illustration in the world. You would divest the impressive
drop of water on the mountain summit, which might go to the Atlantic or to the Pacific, of
all moral character by saying that it makes no difference which ocean it falls into."

The relief from the dread of Niagara felt at this point of peace was only temporary. The dread
returned when the party approached again the turmoil of the American Fall, and fell again under
the influence of the merciless haste of the flood. And there every islet, every rock, every
point, has its legend of terror; here a boat lodged with a man in it, and after a day and night
of vain attempts to rescue him, thousands of people saw him take the frightful leap, throwing
up his arms as he went over; here a young woman slipped, and was instantly whirled away out
of life; and from that point more than one dazed or frantic visitor had taken the suicidal
leap. Death was so near here and so easy!

One seems in less personal peril on the Canadian side, and has more the feeling of a spectator
and less that of a participant in the wild uproar. Perhaps there is more sense of force, but
the majesty of the scene is relieved by a hundred shifting effects of light and color. In the
afternoon, under a broken sky, the rapids above the Horseshoe reminded one of the seashore
on a very stormy day. Impeded by the rocks, the flood hesitated and even ran back, as if reluctant
to take the final plunge! The sienna color of the water on the table contrasted sharply with
the emerald at the break of the fall. A rainbow springing out of the centre of the caldron
arched clear over the American cataract, and was one moment bright and the next dimly seen
through the mist, which boiled up out of the foam of waters and swayed in the wind. Through
this veil darted adventurous birds, flashing their wings in the prismatic colors, and circling
about as if fascinated by the awful rush and thunder. With the shifting wind and the passing
clouds the scene was in perpetual change; now the American Fall was creamy white, and the mist
below dark, and again the heavy mass was gray and sullen, and the mist like silver spray. Perhaps
nowhere else in the world is the force of nature so overpowering to the mind, and as the eye
wanders from the chaos of the fall to the far horizon, where the vast rivers of rapids are
poured out of the sky, one feels that this force is inexhaustible and eternal.

If our travelers expected to escape the impression they were under by driving down to the rapids
and whirlpool below, they were mistaken. Nowhere is the river so terrible as where it rushes,
as if maddened by its narrow bondage, through the canon. Flung down the precipice and forced
into this contracted space, it fumes and tosses and rages with vindictive fury, driving on
in a passion that has almost a human quality in it. Restrained by the walls of stone from being
destructive, it seems to rave at its own impotence, and when it reaches the whirlpool it is
like a hungry animal, returning and licking the shore for the prey it has missed. But it has
not always wanted a prey. Now and again it has a wreck or a dead body to toss and fling about.
Although it does not need the human element of disaster to make this canon grewsome, the keepers
of the show places make the most of the late Captain Webb. So vivid were their narratives that
our sympathetic party felt his presence continually, saw the strong swimmer tossed like a chip,
saw him throw up his hands, saw the agony in his face at the spot where he was last seen. There
are several places where he disappeared, each vouched for by credible witnesses, so that the
horror of the scene is multiplied for the tourist. The late afternoon had turned gray and cold,
and dashes of rain fell as our party descended to the whirlpool. As they looked over the heaped-up
and foaming waters in this eddy they almost expected to see Captain Webb or the suicide of
the night before circling round in the maelstrom. They came up out of the gorge silent, and
drove back to the hotel full of nervous apprehension.

King found no telegram from Irene, and the place seemed to him intolerable. The artist was
quite ready to go on in the morning; indeed, the whole party, although they said it was unreasonable,
confessed that they were almost afraid to stay longer; the roar, the trembling, the pervading
sense of a blind force and rage, inspired a nameless dread. The artist said, the next morning
at the station, that he understood the feelings of Lot.

XV. THE THOUSAND ISLES

The occupation of being a red man, a merchant of baskets and beadwork, is taken up by so many
traders with a brogue and a twang at our watering-places that it is difficult for the traveler
to keep alive any sentiment about this race. But at a station beyond Lewiston our tourists
were reminded of it, and of its capacity for adopting our civilization in its most efflorescent
development. The train was invaded by a band of Indians, or, to speak correctly, by an Indian
band. There is nothing in the world like a brass band in a country town; it probably gives
more pleasure to the performers than any other sort of labor. Yet the delight it imparts to
the listeners is apt to be tempered by a certain sense of incongruity between the peaceful
citizens who compose it and the bellicose din they produce. There is a note of barbarism in
the brassy jar and clamor of the instruments, enhanced by the bewildering ambition of each
player to force through his piece the most noise and jangle, which is not always covered and
subdued into a harmonious whole by the whang of the bass drum.

There was nothing of this incongruity between this band of Tuscaroras and their occupation.
Unaccustomed to associate the North American Indian with music, the traveler at once sees the
natural relation of the Indians with the brass band. These Tuscaroras were stalwart fellows,
broad-faced, big-limbed, serious, and they carried themselves with a clumsy but impressive
dignity. There was no uniformity in their apparel, yet each one wore some portion of a martial
and resplendent dress--an ornamented kepi, or a scarlet sash, or big golden epaulets, or a
military coat braided with yellow. The leader, who was a giant, and carried the smallest instrument,
outshone all the others in his incongruous splendor. No sooner had they found seats at one
end of the car than they unlimbered, and began through their various reluctant instruments
to deploy a tune. Although the tune did not get well into line, the effect was marvelous. The
car was instantly filled to bursting. Miss Lamont, who was reading at the other end of the
car, gave a nervous start, and looked up in alarm. King and Forbes promptly opened windows,
but this gave little relief. The trombone pumped and growled, the trumpet blared, the big brass
instrument with a calyx like the monstrous tropical water-lily quivered and howled, and the
drum, banging into the discord, smashed every tympanum in the car. The roots of these species differ from those of the genus Anthurium by possession from Oelgängen
in the bark, and especially those of a peripheral fibrous layer, which them as a result of the
freely hanging Wachsthumsmodus gives necessary bending strength. Some climbing aroids of the Brazilian
and West Indian jungle are on the transition stage to Epiphytismus by often germinate in the
ground, its trunk but later at the base dies, so behave in particular types of Philodendron,
Monstera deliciosa. In such a transition stage is also Vanilla planifolia, the long out of their
nodes, cylindrical, positively geotropic Nährwurzeln and short, flat, non-geotropic adventitious
roots produced; anatomically I have not compared these two root forms.

The most distinguished corresponding to the second group dicot plant is Clusia rosea, which Life
story I could submit to the West Indies to scrutiny.

Clusia rosea is a rich foliage, and medium sized, epiphytic tree, whose free-growing Root downward
in an often continues over armsdicke, apparent main root, which most, if not always, the bark
of the host tree pressed tightly vertically to the ground goes. The apparent main root arise
numerous, thinner secondary roots, the All the crawling on the bark and partly also at right
angles or obliquely to the ground To grow for the most part, however, are horizontal and clasping
the stem firmly supportive. Instead of an individual by its thickness and excellent long roots
that are sometimes several, of all the extremely positive geotropic.

The root structure just discussed make, especially in older specimens, only a portion of the root
system of leafy branches from the epiphytes dar. forth numerous adventitious roots, which are
partly designed as a short but strong adhesive organs, in part, on the other hand perpendicular
grow down to the ground and reach an often enormous length. We therefore find among these, the leafy
branches springing roots, a similar differentiation, As with the
aforementioned Carludovica and aroids, and are also the same as Nährwurzeln
and different adhesive roots.

The adventitious roots are usually simple, often have to finger thickness and curve in tendrils
to the objects with which they come in Contakt they embrace not in this way only the branches
of the host tree and adjacent trees, but also those of the epiphytes themselves or other adhesive
roots, by what they produce intricate tangle. The Nährwurzeln are simple in their above-ground
parts, and have in the whole length of the same thickness; the latter is against the penetration
into the soil about 6 - 7 mm, often after several rooting Centimeters. They resemble the latter
case strong hawsers. The Burserabäume the jungles Dominica are often hundreds of such cables,
which located at the top of the giant Connect epiphytic Clusien with
the ground, surrounded, in one clump-free even hanging roots, we found
107 members.

  
  
  The life story of Clusia rosea is following in its main features. The seed
  germinates in humus rich, moist columns of the cortex, in Dominica However,
  usually the root of a powerful network of Bromeliaceae, Brocchinia Plumieri,
  in many cases in Trinidad in the persisting leaf bases of Palm trees. The
  pile-like tap root penetrates into the substrate as deep as possible,
and forms multiple, thin branches, the most narrow space possible
use and entangle.

  
  
  The main root and its branches remain very small meet, but to the
  young plant in the beginning the necessary food and attachment to
  . Give Soon after germination, however, are at the base of
  Some adventitious stem generated in the substrate only Penetrate if the
  same has a larger dimension, failing, and while this is
  the rule, on the surface of Wirth tree crawling in all directions
and soon the Main root system in thickness by far. It is impossible to get out of a draught, and the progress is so slow that variety
enough is not presented to the eye to keep one from ennui." Nevertheless, Mrs. Farquhar and
King remained on deck, in such shelter as they could find, during the three hours' sail, braced
up by the consciousness that they were doing their duty in regard to the enterprise that has
transformed this lovely stream into a highway of display and enjoyment. Miss Lamont and the
artist went below, frankly confessing that they could see all that interested them from the
cabin windows. And they had their reward; for in this little cabin, where supper was served,
a drama was going on between the cook and the two waiting-maids and the cabin boy, a drama
of love and coquetry and jealousy and hope deferred, quite as important to those concerned
as any of the watering-place comedies, and played with entire unconsciousness of the spectators.

The evening was dark, and the navigation in the tortuous channels sometimes difficult, and
might have been dangerous but for the lighthouses. The steamer crept along in the shadows of
the low islands, making frequent landings, and never long out of sight of the illuminations
of hotels and cottages. Possibly by reason of these illuminations this passage has more variety
by night than by day. There was certainly a fascination about this alternating brilliancy and
gloom. On nearly every island there was at least a cottage, and on the larger islands were
great hotels, camp-meeting establishments, and houses and tents for the entertainment of thousands
of people. Late as it was in the season, most of the temporary villages and solitary lodges
were illuminated; colored lamps were set about the grounds, Chinese lanterns hung in the evergreens,
and on half a dozen lines radiating from the belfry of the hotel to the ground, while all the
windows blazed and scintillated. Occasionally as the steamer passed these places of irrepressible
gayety rockets were let off, Bengal-lights were burned, and once a cannon attempted to speak
the joy of the sojourners. It was like a continued Fourth of July, and King's heart burned
within him with national pride. Even Mrs. Farquhar had to admit that it was a fairy spectacle.
During the months of July and August this broad river, with its fantastic islands, is at night
simply a highway of glory. The worldlings and the camp-meeting gatherings vie with each other
in the display of colored lights and fireworks. And such places as the Thousand Islands Park,
Wellesley and Wesley parks, and so on, twinkling with lamps and rosy with pyrotechnics, like
sections of the sky dropped upon the earth, create in the mind of the steamer pilgrim an indescribable
earthly and heavenly excitement. He does not look upon these displays as advertisements of
rival resorts, but as generous contributions to the hilarity of the world.

It is, indeed, a marvelous spectacle, this view for thirty or forty miles, and the simple traveler
begins to realize what American enterprise is when it lays itself out for pleasure. These miles
and miles of cottages, hotels, parks, and camp-meetings are the creation of only a few years,
and probably can scarcely be paralleled elsewhere in the world for rapidity of growth. But
the strongest impression the traveler has is of the public spirit of these summer sojourners,
speculators, and religious enthusiasts. No man lives to himself alone, or builds his cottage
for his selfish gratification. He makes fantastic carpentry, and paints and decorates and illuminates
and shows fireworks, for the genuine sake of display. One marvels that a person should come
here for rest and pleasure in a spirit of such devotion to the public weal, and devote himself
night after night for months to illuminating his house and lighting up his island, and tearing
open the sky with rockets and shaking the air with powder explosions, in order that the river
may be continually en fete.

At half-past eight the steamer rounded into view of the hotels and cottages at Alexandria Bay,
and the enchanting scene drew all the passengers to the deck.

The Thousand Islands Hotel, and the Crossman House, where our party found excellent accommodations,
were blazing and sparkling like the spectacular palaces in an opera scene. Rows of colored
lamps were set thickly along the shore, and disposed everywhere among the rocks on which the
Crossman House stands; lights glistened from all the islands, from a thousand row-boats, and
in all the windows. It was very like Venice, seen from the lagoon, when the Italians make a
gala-night.

If Alexandria Bay was less enchanting as a spectacle by daylight, it was still exceedingly
lovely and picturesque; islands and bays and winding waterways could not be better combined
for beauty, and the structures that taste or ambition has raised on the islands or rocky points
are well enough in keeping with the general holiday aspect. One of the prettiest of these cottages
is the Bonnicastle of the late Dr. Holland, whose spirit more or less pervades this region.
It is charmingly situated on a projecting point of gray rocks veined with color, enlivened
by touches of scarlet bushes and brilliant flowers planted in little spots of soil, contrasting
with the evergreen shrubs. It commands a varied and delicious prospect, and has an air of repose
and peace.

I am sorry to say that while Forbes and Miss Lamont floated, so to speak, in all this beauty,
like the light-hearted revelers they were, King was scarcely in a mood to enjoy it. It seemed
to him fictitious and a little forced. There was no message for him at the Crossman House.
His restlessness and absentmindedness could not escape the observation of Mrs. Farquhar, and
as the poor fellow sadly needed a confidante, she was soon in possession of his story.

"I hate slang," she said, when he had painted the situation black enough to suit Mrs. Bartlett
Glow even, "and I will not give my sex away, but I know something of feminine doubtings and
subterfuges, and I give you my judgment that Irene is just fretting herself to death, and praying
that you may have the spirit to ride rough-shod over her scruples. Yes, it is just as true
in this prosaic time as it ever was, that women like to be carried off by violence. In their
secret hearts, whatever they may say, they like to see a knight batter down the tower and put
all the garrison except themselves to the sword. I know that I ought to be on Mrs. Glow's side.
It is the sensible side, the prudent side; but I do admire recklessness in love. Probably you'll
be uncomfortable, perhaps unhappy--you are certain to be if you marry to please society and
not yourself--but better a thousand times one wild rush of real passion, of self-forgetting
love, than an age of stupid, conventional affection approved by your aunt. Oh, these calculating
young people!" Mrs. Farquhar's voice trembled and her eyes flashed. "I tell you, my friend,
life is not worth living in a conventional stagnation. You see in society how nature revenges
itself when its instincts are repressed."

Mrs. Farquhar turned away, and King saw that her eyes were full of tears. She stood a moment
looking away over the sparkling water to the soft islands on the hazy horizon. Was she thinking
of her own marriage? Death had years ago dissolved it, and were these tears, not those of mourning,
but for the great experience possible in life, so seldom realized, missed forever? Before King
could frame, in the tumult of his own thoughts, any reply, she turned towards him again, with
her usual smile, half of badinage and half of tenderness, and said:

"Come, this is enough of tragedy for one day; let us go on the Island Wanderer, with the other
excursionists, among the isles of the blest."

The little steamer had already its load, and presently was under way, puffing and coughing,
on its usual afternoon trip among the islands. The passengers were silent, and appeared to
take the matter seriously--a sort of linen-duster congregation, of the class who figure in
the homely dialect poems of the Northern bards, Mrs. Farquhar said. They were chiefly interested
in knowing the names of the successful people who had built these fantastic dwellings, and
who lived on illuminations. Their curiosity was easily gratified, for in most cases the owners
had painted their names, and sometimes their places of residence, in staring white letters
on conspicuous rocks. There was also exhibited, for the benefit of invalids, by means of the
same white paint, here and there the name of a medicine that is a household word in this patent-right
generation. So the little steamer sailed, comforted by these remedies, through the strait of
Safe Nervine, round the bluff of Safe Tonic, into the open bay of Safe Liver Cure. It was a
healing voyage, and one in which enterprise was so allied with beauty that no utilitarian philosopher
could raise a question as to the market value of the latter.

The voyage continued as far as Gananoque, in Canada, where the passengers went ashore, and
wandered about in a disconsolate way to see nothing. King said, however, that he was more interested
in the place than in any other he had seen, because there was nothing interesting in it; it
was absolutely without character, or a single peculiarity either of Canada or of the United
States. Indeed, this north shore seemed to all the party rather bleak even in summertime, and
the quality of the sunshine thin.

It was, of course, a delightful sail, abounding in charming views, up "lost channels," through
vistas of gleaming water overdrooped by tender foliage, and now and then great stretches of
sea, and always islands, islands.

"Too many islands too much alike," at length exclaimed Mrs. Farquhar, "and too many tasteless
cottages and temporary camping structures."

The performance is, indeed, better than the prospectus. For there are not merely the poetical
Thousand Islands; by actual count there are sixteen hundred and ninety-two. The artist and
Miss Lamont were trying to sing a fine song they discovered in the Traveler's Guide, inspired
perhaps by that sentimental ditty, "The Isles of Greece, the Isles of Greece," beginning,

"O Thousand Isles! O Thousand Isles!"

It seemed to King that a poem might be constructed more in accordance with the facts and with
the scientific spirit of the age. Something like this:

     "O Sixteen Hundred Ninety-two Isles!
     O Islands 1692!
     Where the fisher spreads his wiles,
     And the muskallonge goes through! It was a confusion in him of happiness and childish Despair. For
today, something new had happened in his life. For the first time he had in the fates intervened
by adults. He forgot, even in the half dream, his own Childhood seemed to be large and all
at once. Sometimes he had, lonely and often sickly educated, had few friends. For all his need for
affection No one had been there when the parents, the little care about him, and the servants.
And the violence of love is always incorrectly calculated, but only if we upgraded to their
cause and not by the voltage precedes it, that hollow, dark room of disappointment and loneliness,
the great over all Events of the heart is. A superheavy, a feeling had been waiting here unconsumed
and now rushed forward with outstretched arms in the first, which seemed to deserve it. Edgar
was in the dark, happy and confused, he wanted to laugh and cry. For he loved this Man as he never
had a boyfriend, never father and mother, not even God loved. The whole immature passion of his
earlier years clutched the image of this man, whose name he had never known two hours ago.

But he was wise enough by the unexpected nature of this new friendship
not to be harassed.

What makes him so very confused, was the sense of his worthlessness, his Nullity.


"I beg your pardon. I'm a stranger here. I'd like to try my hand at a muskallonge. About how
do they run here as to size?"

"Well," said the fisherman, relenting a little, "that depends upon who takes you out. If you
want a little sport, I can take you to it. They are running pretty well this season, or were
a week ago."

"Is it too late?"

"Well, they are scarcer than they were, unless you know where to go. I call forty pounds light
for a muskallonge; fifty to seventy is about my figure. If you ain't used to this kind of fishing,
and go with me, you'd better tie yourself in the boat. They are a powerful fish. You see that
little island yonder? A muskallonge dragged me in this boat four times round that island one
day, and just as I thought I was tiring him out he jumped clean over the island, and I had
to cut the line."

King thought he had heard something like this before, and he engaged the man for the next day.
That evening was the last of the grand illuminations for the season, and our party went out
in the Crossman steam-launch to see it. Although some of the cottages were vacated, and the
display was not so extensive as in August, it was still marvelously beautiful, and the night
voyage around the illuminated islands was something long to be remembered.

There were endless devices of colored lamps and lanterns, figures of crosses, crowns, the Seal
of Solomon, and the most strange effects produced on foliage and in the water by red and green
and purple fires. It was a night of enchantment, and the hotel and its grounds on the dark
background of the night were like the stately pleasure-house in "Kubla Khan."

But the season was drawing to an end. 

It is clear from the foregoing sufficiently shows that profound changes, the adjustments many Bromeliaceae
of water uptake by the leaves in the structure and way of life of whole apparatus of the vegetative
plant have caused. That night at ten o'clock the band was scraping away in
the deserted parlor, with not another person in attendance, without a single listener. Miss
Lamont happened to peep through the window-blinds from the piazza and discover this residuum
of gayety. The band itself was half asleep, but by sheer force of habit it kept on, the fiddlers
drawing the perfunctory bows, and the melancholy clarionet men breathing their expressive sighs.
It was a dismal sight. The next morning the band had vanished.

The morning was lowering, and a steady rain soon set in for the day. No fishing, no boating;
nothing but drop, drop, and the reminiscence of past pleasure. Mist enveloped the islands and
shut out the view. Even the spirits of Mrs. Farquhar were not proof against this, and she tried
to amuse herself by reconstructing the season out of the specimens of guests who remained,
who were for the most part young ladies who had duty written on their faces, and were addicted
to spectacles.

"It could not have been," she thought, "ultrafashionable or madly gay. I think the good people
come here; those who are willing to illuminate."

"Oh, there is a fast enough life at some of the hotels in the summer," said the artist.

"Very likely. Still, if I were recruiting for schoolmarms, I should come here. I like it thoroughly,
and mean to be here earlier next year. The scenery is enchanting, and I quite enjoy being with
'Proverbial Philosophy' people."

Late in the gloomy afternoon King went down to the office, and the clerk handed him a letter.
He took it eagerly, but his countenance fell when he saw that it bore a New York postmark,
and had been forwarded from Richfield. It was not from Irene. He put it in his pocket and went
moodily to his room. He was in no mood to read a homily from his uncle.

Ten minutes after, he burst into Forbes's room with the open letter in his hand.

"See here, old fellow, I'm off to the Profile House. Can you get ready?"

"Get ready? Why, you can't go anywhere tonight."

"Yes I can. The proprietor says he will send us across to Redwood to catch the night train
for Ogdensburg."

"But how about the Lachine Rapids? You have been talking about those rapids for two months.
I thought that was what we came here for."

"Do you want to run right into the smallpox at Montreal?"

"Oh, I don't mind. I never take anything of that sort."

"But don't you see that it isn't safe for the Lamonts and Mrs. Farquhar to go there?"

"I suppose not; I never thought of that. You have dragged me all over the continent, and I
didn't suppose there was any way of escaping the rapids. But what is the row now? Has Irene
telegraphed you that she has got over her chill?"

"Read that letter."

Forbes took the sheet and read:

"NEW YORK, September 2, 1885.

"MY DEAR STANHOPE,--We came back to town yesterday, and I find a considerable arrears of business
demanding my attention. A suit has been brought against the Lavalle Iron Company, of which
I have been the attorney for some years, for the possession of an important part of its territory,
and I must send somebody to Georgia before the end of this month to look up witnesses and get
ready for the defense. If you are through your junketing by that time, it will be an admirable
opportunity for you to learn the practical details of the business.... Perhaps it may quicken
your ardor in the matter if I communicate to you another fact. Penelope wrote me from Richfield,
in a sort of panic, that she feared you had compromised your whole future by a rash engagement
with a young lady from Cyrusville, Ohio--a Miss Benson-and she asked me to use my influence
with you. I replied to her that I thought that, in the language of the street, you had compromised
your future, if that were true, for about a hundred cents on the dollar. I have had business
relations with Mr. Benson for twenty years. He is the principal owner in the Lavalle Iron Mine,
and he is one of the most sensible, sound, and upright men of my acquaintance. He comes of
a good old New England stock, and if his daughter has the qualities of her father and I hear
that she has been exceedingly well educated besides she is not a bad match even for a Knickerbocker.

"Hoping that you will be able to report at the office before the end of the month,

"I am affectionately yours,

"SCHUYLER BREVOORT."

"Well, that's all right," said the artist, after a pause. "I suppose the world might go on
if you spend another night in this hotel. But if you must go, I'll bring on the women and the
baggage when navigation opens in the morning."

XVI. WHITE MOUNTAINS, LENNOX.

The White Mountains are as high as ever, as fine in sharp outline against the sky, as savage,
as tawny; no other mountains in the world of their height so well keep, on acquaintance, the
respect of mankind. There is a quality of refinement in their granite robustness; their desolate,
bare heights and sky-scraping ridges are rosy in the dawn and violet at sunset, and their profound
green gulfs are still mysterious. Powerful as man is, and pushing, he cannot wholly vulgarize
them. He can reduce the valleys and the show "freaks" of nature to his own moral level, but
the vast bulks and the summits remain for the most part haughty and pure.

Yet undeniably something of the romance of adventure in a visit to the White Hills is wanting,
now that the railways penetrate every valley, and all the physical obstacles of the journey
are removed. One can never again feel the thrill that he experienced when, after a weary all-day
jolting in the stage-coach, or plodding hour after hour on foot, he suddenly came in view of
a majestic granite peak. Never again by the new rail can he have the sensation that he enjoyed
in the ascent of Mount Washington by the old bridlepath from Crawford's, when, climbing out
of the woods and advancing upon that marvelous backbone of rock, the whole world opened upon
his awed vision, and the pyramid of the summit stood up in majesty against the sky. Nothing,
indeed, is valuable that is easily obtained. This modern experiment of putting us through the
world--the world of literature, experience, and travel--at excursion rates is of doubtful expediency.

I cannot but think that the White Mountains are cheapened a little by the facilities of travel
and the multiplication of excellent places of entertainment. If scenery were a sentient thing,
it might feel indignant at being vulgarly stared at, overrun and trampled on, by a horde of
tourists who chiefly value luxurious hotels and easy conveyance. It would be mortified to hear
the talk of the excursionists, which is more about the quality of the tables and the beds,
and the rapidity with which the "whole thing can be done," than about the beauty and the sublimity
of nature. The mountain, however, was made for man, and not man for the mountain; and if the
majority of travelers only get out of these hills what they are capable of receiving, it may
be some satisfaction to the hills that they still reserve their glories for the eyes that can
appreciate them. Perhaps nature is not sensitive about being run after for its freaks and eccentricities.
If it were, we could account for the catastrophe, a few years ago, in the Franconia Notch flume.
Everybody went there to see a bowlder which hung suspended over the stream in the narrow canon.
This curiosity attracted annually thousands of people, who apparently cared more for this toy
than for anything else in the region. And one day, as if tired of this misdirected adoration,
nature organized a dam on the side of Mount Lafayette, filled it with water, and then suddenly
let loose a flood which tore open the canon, carried the bowlder away, and spread ruin far
and wide. It said as plainly as possible, you must look at me, and not at my trivial accidents.
But man is an ingenious creature, and nature is no match for him. He now goes, in increasing
number, to see where the bowlder once hung, and spends his time in hunting for it in the acres
of wreck and debris. And in order to satisfy reasonable human curiosity, the proprietors of
the flume have been obliged to select a bowlder and label it as the one that was formerly the
shrine of pilgrimage.

In his college days King had more than once tramped all over this region, knapsack on back,
lodging at chance farmhouses and second-class hotels, living on viands that would kill any
but a robust climber, and enjoying the life with a keen zest only felt by those who are abroad
at all hours, and enabled to surprise Nature in all her varied moods. It is the chance encounters
that are most satisfactory; Nature is apt to be whimsical to him who approaches her of set
purpose at fixed hours. Is gently and blissfully
asleep in the Lord. She was pretty much of my age, and as I am many things in the cross-school
learning, and we have often consoled each other and we promised in last hour stand by us. This
I have to do for the Lord's counsel must, and got it done without weeping and wailing. "What's
helping women Schuckin 'says I to her," If I your Heart by lawsuits make it hard to let us off
together rather pleased that you will soon spread out and the Lord will come! "And as I then placed
the pillow her cope, and to pray began: "Christ's blood and righteousness, this is my jewelry
and honor dress, and she said with a voice that came from the heart: "That I will stand before
God when I'll go to heaven '. "And is she then fell asleep, and I enjoyed it up there quarters,
and how she died, I will die;

    "I believe in Jesus, saying, Who gläubt
    not coming into the court. Praise God that
    I can not believe it! And my guilt
    is done away. "

"But that I speak of something else, still a novelty for you, Mr. Justus that you certainly will
enjoy. As I am now the gate Neuenweg also wants to go in my garden, so walk just a soldier
in the sun up and down, I had not seen before, as, in general, the company that was there seemed to
be an alien. I offer the soldier the time and graciously thanks the soldier, and asks: "Where
so zealous, Mother" With? the haste it pressirt not just, 'I says, like us do teaches the age
chamber; wants more thing, "get in my garden at the food mountain, 'I says. "Is it not time more
visits to the garden, "'he says. "Yes, indeed," I said, "are still a number of carbon stem
stayed out that I'd have like home. Your company does not appear much longer in the City to
be, and you have no one around, the patches and wash yourself, know that I like a trifle like
to Thue. I live on the Tiefenweg next to the wall, asks only by Barbara Lindin, jed 'child you
can show me, and should I not even at home be, but give my home the black stuff, the Lord Justus
is in a safe place. " "The Lord Justus, 'says he," what is it with, say your lodger Konrad Justus,
and is ? It his profession a theologian 'Yes,' says I, "who lives with me, and how do you know
him?" "I am the corporal Scheuermann," 'he says, "and I knew the Lord Justus rather than her.
'Yes,' says I, "if you are the, I know you also, for the Lord Justus of you already told,
and given you a good witness. "Has he done this?" 'says he, and the man went so, as I live,
the tears down her cheeks. "And what Mr. Justus is here, "he asks," and he's doing well? "He
goes well," I replied, "You can 'go to him but also better," and we talked for a long and between
you and became good friends with each other.
 You need not look so indifferent; they are coming back here
again. They are doing what I must do; and I wish you would tell me what to see. I have studied
the guide-books till my mind is a blank. Where shall I go?"

"That depends. If you simply want to enjoy yourselves, stay at this hotel--there is no better
place--sit on the piazza, look at the mountains, and watch the world as it comes round. If
you want the best panoramic view of the mountains, the Washington and Lafayette ranges together,
go up to the Waumbec House. If you are after the best single limited view in the mountains,
drive up to the top of Mount Willard, near the Crawford House--a delightful place to stay in
a region full of associations, Willey House, avalanche, and all that. If you would like to
take a walk you will remember forever, go by the carriage road from the top of Mount Washington
to the Glen House, and look into the great gulfs, and study the tawny sides of the mountains.
I don't know anything more impressive hereabouts than that. Close to, those granite ranges
have the color of the hide of the rhinoceros; when you look up to them from the Glen House,
shouldering up into the sky, and rising to the cloud-clapped summit of Washington, it is like
a purple highway into the infinite heaven. No, you must not miss either Crawford's or the Glen
House; and as to Mount Washington, that is a duty."

"You might personally conduct us and expound by the way."

King said he would like nothing better. Inquiry failed to give him any more information of
the whereabouts of the Bensons; but the clerk said they were certain to return to the Profile
House. The next day the party which had been left behind at Alexandria Bay appeared, in high
spirits, and ready for any adventure. Mrs. Farquhar declared at once that she had no scruples
about going up Washington, commonplace as the trip was, for her sympathies were now all with
the common people. Of course Mount Washington was of no special importance, now that the Black
Mountains were in the Union, but she hadn't a bit of prejudice.

King praised her courage and her patriotism. But perhaps she did not know how much she risked.
He had been talking with some habitue's of the Profile, who had been coming here for years,
and had just now for the first time been up Mount Washington, and they said that while the
trip was pleasant enough, it did not pay for the exertion. Perhaps Mrs. Farquhar did not know
that mountain-climbing was disapproved of here as sea-bathing was at Newport. It was hardly
the thing one would like to do, except, of course, as a mere lark, and, don't you know, with
a party.

Mrs. Farquhar said that was just the reason she wanted to go. She was willing to make any sacrifice;
she considered herself just a missionary of provincialism up North, where people had become
so cosmopolitan that they dared not enjoy anything. She was an enemy of the Boston philosophy.
What is the Boston philosophy? Why, it is not to care about anything you do care about.

The party that was arranged for this trip included Mrs. Cortlandt and her bevy of beauty and
audacity, Miss Lamont and her uncle, Mrs. Farquhar, the artist, and the desperate pilgrim of
love. Mrs. Farquhar vowed to Forbes that she had dragged King along at the request of the proprietor
of the hotel, who did not like to send a guest away, but he couldn't have all the trees at
Profile Lake disfigured with his cutting and carving. People were running to him all the while
to know what it meant with "I. B.," "I. B.," "I. B.," everywhere, like a grove of Baal.

From the junction to Fabyan's they rode in an observation car, all open, and furnished with
movable chairs, where they sat as in a balcony. It was a picturesque load of passengers. There
were the young ladies in trim traveling-suits, in what is called compact fighting trim; ladies
in mourning; ladies in winter wraps; ladies in Scotch wraps; young men with shawl-straps and
opera-glasses, standing, legs astride, consulting maps and imparting information; the usual
sweet pale girl with a bundle of cat-tails and a decorative intention; and the nonchalant young
man in a striped English boating cap, who nevertheless spoke American when he said anything. Myself am only a poor disciple and had hardly discovered the place where the stone is located.
Your are certainly more, says, as you have raised him, have you seen the white swan? Thinks only
unworthy I must confess, with me, life is life, the blessed Tincture still Mercurio hidden;'m
only in the black ravens, and is also the blackness a blessed and blissful blackness, I yearn
but they all with the whitest whites clothed seen. Help me, Master, you have to, I already found
my hopes, for who is so far in Astronomia, like you, who must be even further in Alchemia. In
addition, you know yes, the verse of our sages:

    The stone is deep, it lifts him None Own
    power, and it'll show him as one who His best
    friend, it'll give out of pure grace The Lord
    from heaven to his advice. "

"The verse that says you there, Mr. Fleischhauer," said Justus, 'is beautiful, and your trust
would be worthy to be rewarded, but I can give you in your art no
advice, because I understand all of what you said a word.

"

"Not a word, my dear Mr. Justus?" Said the alchemist, and looked with an incredulous smile his
guest. "Not a word? Understand well, you make me want to certainly lusting after your Wisdom.
Or do you trust me, maybe not quite, says that I chat from school. If here, I want to show you
how far I am, and their confidence to win to me. Do you see the Cracked pot because the ground
in two pieces? Yesterday I laboring, and I was living, for the first time since I nachtrachte
the Lebenstinctur, the lion appeared in the blood, friend, I say, the lion in the blood, and
as I look into it with a beating heart in the bright shiny gold and the sun of all suns rises before
me, and I proclaim aloud: Now, drive back, case, Hell, curse, death, dragon, animal, snake,
- as the crucible moves, and as a blue Flämmlein increases the stone
up in smoke, and smelled sweet as violets.

Now I have to start again. Help me understand that my effort is worth more. "

"I help you, Mr. Fleischer replied, surprised Justus," I just can not really. This time you have
given to an unworthy your trust. I know your Sorcerer's Stone not, and do not know how he is
raised. I only know of one philosopher's stone, by the where the prophet says: "Behold I lay in Zion
a foundation stone, a tried stone, a delicious Eckstein, who is well-founded. "On the stone now
I lift for many years, and he appeared to me delightful until then, and his burden is easy
for me, and he shall once be my grave stone, on the verse: "Christ
is my life and my death Profit.

"

"But," began, the butcher, half frightened and half-defiantly, "You can like you just because
the Calendar husband call and want to be regarded as astrologer,
if you allow the divine Alchemia not want to know?

Are not both sciences twinned with each other, even married, as we say? "

"The man called me the calendar," said, seriously, the schoolmaster, "that's like with their conscience
, Why make me tie my toys such as a rod on the back, but the Astrologia I have not driven in
my life, any more than the alchemy. When I started to taste the milk of the stars of science,
because I am probably one and the other written fallen into the hands, was told by famous men
in it, the stars have influence on human life and death.

But to me such 'densities seemed vain Fürwitz and a robbery in God's honor and power, and I desisted
from such 'idle questions. "

On this word and the butchers of the Justus gave up, but remained in his heart yet the opinion
that the schoolmaster knew more than he would say.
He went full of fear and horror but away from the tempter, and was
not happy than him at the door of the council house servant, met with
a smile and said, "schoolmaster Well her with this butcher? Where
are pigeons, doves fly, and joins DC and DC gladly. Three or four times, as if in response to the call of the spectators, this was
repeated, the curtain lifting every time on a different scene, and then it was all over, and
the heavy mist shut down on the registered and the unregistered alike. But everybody declared
that they preferred it this way; it was so much better to have these wonderful glimpses than
a full view. They would go down and brag over their good-fortune.

The excursionists by-and-by went away out of the clouds, gliding breathlessly down the rails.
When snow covers this track, descent is sometimes made on a toboggan, but it is such a dangerous
venture that all except the operatives are now forbidden to try it. The velocity attained of
three and a half miles in three minutes may seem nothing to a locomotive engineer who is making
up time; it might seem slow to a lover whose sweetheart was at the foot of the slide; to ordinary
mortals a mile a minute is quite enough on such an incline.

Our party, who would have been much surprised if any one had called them an excursion, went
away on foot down the carriage road to the Glen House. A descent of a few rods took them into
the world of light and sun, and they were soon beyond the little piles of stones which mark
the spots where tourists have sunk down bewildered in the mist and died of exhaustion and cold.
These little mounds help to give Mount Washington its savage and implacable character. It is
not subdued by all the roads and rails and scientific forces. For days it may lie basking and
smiling in the sun, but at any hour it is liable to become inhospitable and pitiless, and for
a good part of the year the summit is the area of elemental passion.

How delightful it was to saunter down the winding road into a region of peace and calm; to
see from the safe highway the great giants in all their majesty; to come to vegetation, to
the company of familiar trees, and the haunts of men! As they reached the Glen House all the
line of rugged mountain-peaks was violet in the reflected rays. There were people on the porch
who were looking at this spectacle. Among them the eager eyes of King recognized Irene.

"Yes, there she is," cried Mrs. Farquhar; "and there--oh, what a treacherous North----is Mr.
Meigs also."

It was true. There was Mr. Meigs, apparently domiciled with the Benson family. There might
have been a scene, but fortunately the porch was full of loungers looking at the sunset, and
other pedestrians in couples and groups were returning from afternoon strolls. It might be
the crisis of two lives, but to the spectator nothing more was seen than the everyday meeting
of friends and acquaintances. A couple say good-night at the door of a drawing-room. Nothing
has happened--nothing except a look, nothing except the want of pressure of the hand. The man
lounges off to the smoking-room, cool and indifferent; the woman, in her chamber, falls into
a passion of tears, and at the end of a wakeful night comes into a new world, hard and cold
and uninteresting. Or the reverse happens. It is the girl who tosses the thing off with a smile,
perhaps with a sigh, as the incident of a season, while the man, wounded and bitter, loses
a degree of respect for woman, and pitches his life henceforth on a lower plane.

In the space of ten steps King passed through an age of emotions, but the strongest one steadied
him. There was a general movement, exclamations, greetings, introductions. King was detained
a moment by Mr. and Mrs. Benson; he even shook hands with Mr. Meigs, who had the tact to turn
immediately from the group and talk with somebody else; while Mrs. Farquhar and Miss Lamont
and Mrs. Cortlandt precipitated themselves upon Irene in a little tempest of cries and caresses
and delightful feminine fluttering. Truth to say, Irene was so overcome by these greetings
that she had not the strength to take a step forward when King at length approached her. She
stood with one hand grasping the back of the chair. She knew that that moment would decide
her life. Nothing is more admirable in woman, nothing so shows her strength, as her ability
to face in public such a moment. It was the critical moment for King--how critical the instant
was, luckily, he did not then know. If there had been in his eyes any doubt, any wavering,
any timidity, his cause would have been lost. But there was not. There was infinite love and
tenderness, but there was also resolution, confidence, possession, mastery. There was that
that would neither be denied nor turned aside, nor accept any subterfuge. If King had ridden
up on a fiery steed, felled Meigs with his "mailed hand," and borne away the fainting girl
on his saddle pommel, there could have been no more doubt of his resolute intention. In that
look all the mists of doubt that her judgment had raised in Irene's mind to obscure love vanished.
Her heart within her gave a great leap of exultation that her lover was a man strong enough
to compel, strong enough to defend. At that instant she knew that she could trust him against
the world. In that moment, while he still held her hand, she experienced the greatest joy that
woman ever knows--the bliss of absolute surrender.

"I have come," he said, "in answer to your letter. And this is my answer."

She had it in his presence, and read it in his eyes. With the delicious sense thrilling her
that she was no longer her own master there came a new timidity. She had imagined that if ever
she should meet Mr. King again, she should defend her course, and perhaps appear in his eyes
in a very heroic attitude. Now she only said, falteringly, and looking down, "I--I hoped you
would come."

That evening there was a little dinner given in a private parlor by Mr. Benson in honor of
the engagement of his daughter. It was great larks for the young ladies whom Mrs. Cortlandt
was chaperoning, who behaved with an elaboration of restraint and propriety that kept Irene
in a flutter of uneasiness. Mr. Benson, in mentioning the reason for the "little spread," told
the story of Abraham Lincoln's sole response to Lord Lyons, the bachelor minister of her majesty,
when he came officially to announce the marriage of the Prince of Wales--"Lord Lyons, go thou
and do likewise;" and he looked at Forbes when he told it, which made Miss Lamont blush, and
appear what the artist had described her to King--the sweetest thing in life. Mrs. Benson beamed
with motherly content, and was quite as tearful as ungrammatical, but her mind was practical
and forecasting. "There'll have to be," she confided to Miss Lamont, "more curtains in the
parlor, and I don't know but new paper." Mr. Meigs was not present. Mrs. Farquhar noticed this,
and Mrs. Benson remembered that he had said something about going down to North Conway, which
gave King an opportunity to say to Mrs. Farquhar that she ought not to despair, for Mr. Meigs
evidently moved in a circle, and was certain to cross her path again. "I trust so," she replied.
"I've been his only friend through all this miserable business." The dinner was not a great
success. There was too much self-consciousness all round, and nobody was witty and brilliant.

The next morning King took Irene to the Crystal Cascade. When he used to frequent this pretty
spot as a college boy, it had seemed to him the ideal place for a love scene-much better than
the steps of a hotel. He said as much when they were seated at the foot of the fall. It is
a charming cascade fed by the water that comes down Tuckerman's Ravine. But more beautiful
than the fall is the stream itself, foaming down through the bowlders, or lying in deep limpid
pools which reflect the sky and the forest. The water is as cold as ice and as clear as cut
glass; few mountain streams in the world, probably, are so absolutely without color. "I followed
it up once," King was saying, by way of filling in the pauses with personal revelations, "to
the source. The woods on the side are dense and impenetrable, and the only way was to keep
in the stream and climb over the bowlders. There are innumerable slides and cascades and pretty
falls, and a thousand beauties and surprises. I finally came to a marsh, a thicket of alders,
and around this the mountain closed in an amphitheatre of naked perpendicular rock a thousand
feet high. I made my way along the stream through the thicket till I came to a great bank and
arch of snow--it was the last of July--from under which the stream flowed. Water dripped in
many little rivulets down the face of the precipices--after a rain there are said to be a thousand
cascades there. I determined to climb to the summit, and go back by the Tip-top House. It does
not look so from a little distance, but there is a rough, zigzag sort of path on one side of
the amphitheatre, and I found this, and scrambled up. When I reached the top the sun was shining,
and although there was nothing around me but piles of granite rocks, without any sign of a
path, I knew that I had my bearings so that I could either reach the house or a path leading
to it. I stretched myself out to rest a few moments, and suddenly the scene was completely
shut in by a fog. [Irene put out her hand and touched King's.] I couldn't tell where the sun
was, or in what direction the hut lay, and the danger was that I would wander off on a spur,
as the lost usually do. But I knew where the ravine was, for I was still on the edge of it."

"Why," asked Irene, trembling at the thought of that danger so long ago--"why didn't you go
back down the ravine?"

"Because," and King took up the willing little hand and pressed it to his lips, and looked
steadily in her eyes--"because that is not my way. It was nothing. I made what I thought was
a very safe calculation, starting from the ravine as a base, to strike the Crawford bridle-path
at least a quarter of a mile west of the house. I hit it--but it shows how little one can tell
of his course in a fog--I struck it within a rod of the house! It was lucky for me that I did
not go two rods further east."

Ah me! how real and still present the peril seemed to the girl! "You will solemnly promise
me, solemnly, will you not, Stanhope, never to go there again--never--without me?"

The promise was given. "I have a note," said King, after the promise was recorded and sealed,
"to show you. It came this morning. It is from Mrs. Bartlett Glow."

"Perhaps I'd rather not see it," said Irene, a little stiffly.

"Oh, there is a message to you. I'll read it."

It was dated at Newport.

   "MY DEAR STANHOPE,--The weather has changed. I hope it is more
   congenial where you are. It is horrid here. I am in a bad humor,
   chiefly about the cook. Don't think I'm going to inflict a letter
   on you. You don't deserve it besides. But I should like to know
   Miss Benson's address. We shall be at home in October, late, and I
   want her to come and make me a little visit. If you happen to see
   her, give her my love, and believe me your affectionate cousin,
                       PENELOPE."

The next day they explored the wonders of the Notch, and the next were back in the serene atmosphere
of the Profile House. How lovely it all was; how idyllic; what a bloom there was on the hills;
how amiable everybody seemed; how easy it was to be kind and considerate! King wished he could
meet a beggar at every turn. I know he made a great impression on some elderly maiden ladies
at the hotel, who thought him the most gentlemanly and good young man they had ever seen. Ah!
if one could always be in love and always young!

They went one day by invitation, Irene and Marion and King and the artist--as if it made any
difference where they went--to Lonesome Lake, a private pond and fishing-lodge on the mountain-top,
under the ledge of Cannon. There, set in a rim of forest and crags, lies a charming little
lake--which the mountain holds like a mirror for the sky and the clouds and the sailing hawks--full
of speckled trout, which have had to be educated by skillful sportsmen to take the fly. From
this lake one sees the whole upper range of Lafayette, gray and purple against the sky. On
the bank is a log cabin touched with color, with great chimneys, and as luxuriously comfortable
as it is picturesque.

While dinner was preparing, the whole party were on the lake in boats, equipped with fishing
apparatus, and if the trout had been in half as willing humor as the fisher, it would have
been a bad day for them. 

The Clusia rosea join the epiphytic fig trees on (Plate I), on the unequal Stages of adaptation
are retained, which should probably be true of species of the genus Clusia. I have never had the
opportunity to study epiphytic fig trees much, from what I observed in Brazil had such an opportunity,
and after the oral communications Dr. BRANDIS on Indian fig species, are the first stages of development
to those of Clusia rosea very similar and lead first to a primary system of adventitious roots,
surrounds the base as the widely anastomosing and braided with numerous branches penetrates the
soil. In the species seen by me and Coussapoa Schottii was like Clusia, one of these roots
far stronger than the others, and a main root of the same. Some, but not all the Ficus species develop
from its branches secondary adventitious roots, but not as Clusia rosea, either to prison or to
develop Nährwurzeln, but to prop roots, that grow straight down and after their penetration into
the ground, in terms size will and strength, derived similarly. It is well known by the images of the
Banyan (Ficus indica) with its numerous column-like supporting roots.

Third Group IV (12).

While most epiphytes very long, just have roots only in moist Set branch abundantly, are the
roots of some, belonging to very different families, epiphytic plants much branched network structure
is sponge-like, in and on which gradually accumulate dead leaves and other humus-forming substances.
 In the bottom of the boat
was one poor little trout, his tail curled up and his spots faded.

"Whose trout is that?" asked Irene.

"It belongs to both of us," said Forbes, who seemed to have some difficulty in adjusting his oars.

"But who caught it?"

"Both of us," said Marion, stepping out of the boat; "we really did." There was a heightened
color in her face and a little excitement in her manner as she put her arm round Irene's waist
and they walked up to the cabin. "Yes, it is true, but you are not to say anything about it
yet, dear, for Mr. Forbes has to make his way, you know."

When they walked down the mountain the sun was setting. Half-way down, at a sharp turn in the
path, the trees are cut away just enough to make a frame, in which Lafayette appears like an
idealized picture of a mountain. The sun was still on the heights, which were calm, strong,
peaceful. They stood gazing at this heavenly vision till the rose had deepened into violet,
and then with slow steps descended through the fragrant woods.

In October no region in the North has a monopoly of beauty, but there is a certain refinement,
or it may be a repose, in the Berkshire Hills which is in a manner typical of a distinct phase
of American fashion. There is here a note of country life, of retirement, suggestive of the
old-fashioned "country-seat." It is differentiated from the caravansary or the cottage life
in the great watering-places. Perhaps it expresses in a sincerer way an innate love of rural
existence. Perhaps it is only a whim of fashion. Whatever it may be, there is here a moment
of pause, a pensive air of the closing scene. The estates are ample, farms in fact, with a
sort of villa and park character, woods, pastures, meadows. When the leaves turn crimson and
brown and yellow, and the frequent lakes reflect the tender sky and the glory of the autumn
foliage, there is much driving over the hills from country place to country place; there are
lawn-tennis parties on the high lawns, whence the players in the pauses of the game can look
over vast areas of lovely country; there are open-air fetes, chance meetings at the clubhouse,
chats on the highway, walking excursions, leisurely dinners. In this atmosphere one is on the
lookout for an engagement, and a wedding here has a certain eclat. When one speaks of Great
Barrington or Stockbridge or Lenox in the autumn, a certain idea of social position is conveyed.

Did Their Pilgrimage end on these autumn heights? To one of them, I know, the colored landscape,
the dreamy atmosphere, the unique glory that comes in October days, were only ecstatic suggestions
of the life that opened before her. Love is victorious over any mood of nature, even when exquisite
beauty is used to heighten the pathos of decay. Like the rest of the stars they are
do not particularly do not like the planet. They have the sun at their center, and go in the
narrower or wider circles around them, and if they once held their treatment, then Another year.
 That young gentleman had gone on business to Georgia. Mr. and Mrs. Benson
were in Cyrusville. Irene was staying with Mrs. Farquhar at the house of a friend. These letters
had a great deal of Lovers' Latin in them--enough to have admitted the writer into Yale College
if this were a qualification. The letters she received were equally learned, and the fragments
Mrs. Farquhar was permitted to hear were so interrupted by these cabalistic expressions that
she finally begged to be excused. She said she did not doubt that to be in love was a liberal
education, but pedantry was uninteresting. Latin might be convenient at this stage; but later
on, for little tiffs and reconciliations, French would be much more useful. 

It can therefore be no doubt that the water uptake by the leaves Reduction of water pathways
has circumstances, in particular for the species, whose leaves and who stalk absorbent flakes evenly
on its entire surface.
Mrs. Farquhar watched her with a pensive interest awhile, went behind her chair, and, leaning
over, kissed her forehead, and then with slow step and sad eyes passed out to the piazza, and
stood with her face to the valley and the purple hills. But it was a faded landscape she saw.