The pump E is fixed at the bottom midway between the engine uprights as indicated in Fig. 124.
The suction-pipe passes through a hole and down through the deck nearly to the bottom of the
hull. After the engine and boiler are connected, a trial can be made. If the foregoing instructions
have been carried out, the engine will run at a good speed and a continuous flow of water will
be pumped out of the hull. All parts of the engine and pump should be carefully oiled and water
should be poured into the pump in order to prime it before its start.

It is understood that two complete boilers and pump units are made for the model, and one is
mounted on each side. If the builder desires to increase the capacity of the pumps and install
a more powerful boiler and engine, only one pump will be necessary. Otherwise the water will
not be pumped from the hull very rapidly.

When the builder has finished the pump units, he should turn his attention to the remainder
of the fittings. Two small cranes are made, and one is placed at each side of the hull. They
are made of tin. The cab of each crane measures 2-1/2 inches high by 2 inches long by 1-3/4
inches wide. A small roof is fitted on, and a piece of wood fitted to the bottom to serve as
a floor. The jib measures 6 inches long by 3/4 inch at the base, and tapers to 1/2 inch. It
has 1/4 inch turned down at each side, thus adding considerable strength. The jib is fitted
to the cab by means of a wire passed through the sides, and two guy-ropes are arranged as shown.
A small piece is now cut out at the top, and a pulley wheel fixed in position by means of a
pin passed through the sides.

The winding-drum can be made of either tin or wood. The axle passes through both sides of the
cab, the crank being attached to the outside. Fig. 126 shows the completed crane, which is
held to the deck by means of a small bolt and nut. A washer should be placed between the bottom
of the crane and the deck, to allow the crane to turn freely with little friction.

A hand-rail, made of fine brass wire, is placed around the deck.

Dummy port-holes are fixed to the sides of the dry-dock for the purpose of lighting up the
interior of the engine-room. These are furnished from top rings taken from gas-mantles. Anchor-chains
are fixed at each end of the dry-dock. The whole dry-dock is painted with two coats of gray
paint and the water-line painted in bright red.

Fig. 127 shows the dry-dock with a model boat in position. Flash steam plants are far more
complicated than ordinary steam-propelled power plants, and for this reason the author devotes
a chapter to their description.

A considerable equipment of tools and not a little mechanical ingenuity are required to produce
and assemble a workable flash steam plant. However, such plants have gained great popularity
in the past few years, and all of the hydroplane racing craft are propelled with such outfits.
These power plants are capable of delivering such a tremendous power that speeds as high as
thirty-five miles an hour have been reached by boats measuring 40 inches long.

The illustration, Fig. 128, shows a flash steam plant and its various parts. Each part and
its function will be described in this Chapter in detail. The gasolene tank A is used to hold
the fuel, which is fed to the gasolene burner C. The gasolene burner operates on the principle
of the ordinary gasolene torch. First the tank is filled about three-quarters full with gasolene.
An air-pressure is then produced in the tank with a bicycle pump. The pipe leading from the
gasolene-tank at the top is coiled around the burner, and the free end of it is bent and provided
with a nipple, so that the gasolene vapor will be blown through the center of the helix of
the coil formed by the pipe bent around the burner. This is quite clearly shown in the drawing.

The cylinder is merely a piece of stovepipe iron bent to shape and provided with several air-holes
at the burner end. To start the burner, the vaporizing coils must first be heated in an auxiliary
flame. The flame of an ordinary blow-torch is suitable for this purpose. After the coils have
become sufficiently hot the valve at the top of the gasolene-tank is opened, and this causes
a stream of gasolene vapor to issue at the nipple. This produces a hot flame at the center
of the vaporizing coils, and in this way the coils are kept hot. The purpose of heating these
coils is further to vaporize the gasolene as it passes through them on the way to the burner.
Once started, the action of the burner is entirely automatic. The vaporizing coils are made
of Shelby steel tubing with an internal diameter of 1/8 inch.

It will be seen that the flame from the gasolene-torch is blown through the center of the boiler
coils B. Thus, any water passing through these boiler coils is instantly converted into steam.
In other words, the water "flashes" into steam. The heat of the blow-torch is so great that
most of the boiler coils are maintained at red heat even while the water is passing through them.

Notice the water-tank G. A little scoop, formed by a pipe of small diameter, protrudes through
the bottom of the boat, so that the forward motion of the boat will cause water to rise in
the tank G. An overflow is also provided, so that, should the water not be sucked out of the
tank quickly enough, it will not flood the boat. The overflow pipe hangs off the side of the boat.

The water pump E sucks water from the tank, and pumps it through the check-valve K (this valve
permits water to pass in one direction only) into the boiler coils. The boiler coils, being
red-hot, cause the water to flash into steam the instant it reaches them. By the time the steam
has reached the opposite end of the boiler coils, it is no longer steam, but a hot, dry gas
at a terrific pressure. From the boiler coils the steam passes into the steam-chest of the
engine, and thence into the cylinder, where it expands, delivering its energy to the piston.

It will be seen that the water-pump E is geared to the engine. Owing to this, it is necessary
to start the water circulating through the boiler coils by the hand pump F. This hand pump
forces water through the boiler coils just as the power pump does. After the hand pump is started
the engine is turned over a few times until it starts. The valve H is then closed, which cuts
the starting pump F entirely out of the system, because when the engine starts it also drives
the water pump E, and therefore the action becomes entirely automatic.

The relief-cock L is placed in the system to be used if the engine stalls. By opening the relief-cock
the pressure in the complete system is immediately relieved. At all other times the relief-cock
is closed.

A second pump, I, is also included in the system. This, like the water-pump, is geared to the
engine and driven by it. It is the duty of this pump to convey oil from the lubricating tank
M into the steam feed-pipe just before it enters the steam-chest. In this way the live superheated
steam carries a certain amount of lubricating oil with it in the cylinder.

Owing to the high temperature of the superheated steam, it is impossible to use brass cylinders
on the steam-engines employed with flash steam systems. Steel seems to be the only cheap metal
that is capable of withstanding the attack of flash steam. Brass is out of the question, since
its surface will pit badly after it is in use a short time.

