Clinging lavender wisteria, sweet jasmine, and even scarlet amaryllis pale beside the glowing
colours displayed during sunny spring days on the gallery rails of many country homes through
Delaware and Virginia. These picturesque scenes, in which the familiar domestic art supplies
the essential touch of colour, are aptly described by Robert and Elizabeth Shackleton, those
indefatigable searchers for the beautiful among the relics of our forefathers.

"In many a little village, and in many an isolated mountain home, the old-time art of making
patchwork coverlets is remembered and practised. Some may be found that are generations old;
others are new, but made in precisely the old-time way, and after the same patterns. Many are
in gorgeous colours, in glowing yellows, greens, and purples; and being a matter of housewifely
pride, they are often thrown over the 'gallery rail' so their glory may be seen.

"One guest bed had nineteen quilts! Not to sleep under such a padded mountain, but it was the
most natural method of display. Each quilt had its name. There was the "Western Star," the
"Rose of the Carolinas," the "Log Cabin," the "Virginia Gentleman," the "Fruit Basket," the
"Lily of the Valley"--as many special names as there are designs."

CHAPTER VII

QUILT COLLECTIONS AND EXHIBITIONS

In spite of their wide distribution and vast quantity, the number of quilts readily accessible
to those who are interested in them is exceedingly small. This is particularly true of those
quilts which possess artistic merit and historic interest, and a considerable amount of inquiry
is sometimes necessary in order to bring forth even a single quilt of more than ordinary beauty.
It is unfortunate for this most useful and pleasant art that its masterpieces are so shy and
loath to display their charms, for it is mainly from the rivalry induced by constant display
that all arts secure their best stimulus. However, some very remarkable achievements in quilting
have been brought to light from time to time, to the great benefit of this best of household arts.

There is in existence to-day no complete collection of quilts readily available to the public
at large. No museum in this country or abroad has a collection worthy of the name, the nearest
approach to it being in the great South Kensington Museum in London. While many institutions
possess one or more specimens, these have been preserved more often on account of some historic
association than because of exceptional beauty or artistic merit. It is only in the rare instance
of a family collection, resulting from the slow accumulation by more than one generation of
quilt enthusiasts, that a quilt collection at all worth while can be found. In such a case
the owner is generally so reticent concerning his treasures that the community as a whole is
never given the opportunity to profit by them.

In families where accumulations have reached the dignity in numbers that will justify being
called collections, the quilts belonging to different branches of the family have been passed
along from one generation to another, until they have become the property of one person. Among
collections of this sort are found many rare and beautiful quilts, as only the best and choicest
of all that were made have been preserved. There are also occasional large collections of quilts
that are the work of one industrious maker who has spent the greater portion of her life piecing
and quilting. The Kentucky mountain woman who had "eighty-three, all different, and all her
own makin'," is a typical example of this class.

The vastness of their numbers and the great extent of their everyday use serve to check the
collecting of quilts. As a whole, quilts are extremely heterogeneous and democratic; they are
made so generally over the whole country that no distinct types have been developed, and they
are possessed so universally that there is little social prestige to be gained by owning an
uncommonly large number. Consequently even the most ardent quilt lovers are usually satisfied
when they possess enough for their own domestic needs, with perhaps a few extra for display
in the guest chambers.

Much of the social pleasure of the pioneer women was due to their widespread interest in quilts.
Aside from the quilting bees, which were notable affairs, collecting quilt patterns was to
many women a source of both interest and enjoyment. Even the most ambitious woman could not
hope to make a quilt like every design which she admired, so, to appease the desire for the
numerous ones she was unable to make, their patterns were collected. These collections of quilt
patterns--often quite extensive, frequently included single blocks of both pieced and patched
designs. There was always a neighbourly and friendly interest taken in such collections, as
popular designs were exchanged and copied many times. Choice remnants of prints and calicoes
were also shared with the neighbours. Occasionally from trunks or boxes, long hidden in dusty
attics, some of these old blocks come to light, yellowed with age and frayed at the edges,
to remind us of the simple pleasures of our grandmothers.

At the present time there is a marked revival of interest in quilts and their making. The evidences
of this revival are the increasing demand for competent quilters, the desire for new quilt
patterns, and the growing popularity of quilt exhibitions. Concerning exhibits of quilts, there
is apparent--at least in the northern part of the United States--a noticeable increase in popular
appreciation of those held at county and state fairs. This is a particularly fortunate circumstance
for the development of the art, because the county fair, "our one steadfast institution in
a world of change," is so intimately connected with the lives and is so dear to the hearts
of our people.

In addition to the pleasures and social diversions which that annual rural festival--the county
fair--affords, it is an educational force that is not sufficiently appreciated by those who
live beyond the reach of its spell. At best, country life contains long stretches of monotony,
and any interest with which it can be relieved is a most welcome addition to the lives of the
women in rural communities. At the fair women are touched to new thoughts on common themes.
They come to meet each other and talk over the latest kinks in jelly making, the progress of
their children, and similar details of their family affairs. They come to get standards of
living and to gather ideas of home decoration and entertainment for the long evenings when
intercourse, even with the neighbours, becomes infrequent.

There is not the least doubt concerning the beneficial influence of the local annual fair on
the life of the adjacent neighbourhood. At such a fair the presence of a varied and well-arranged
display of needlework, which has been produced by the womenfolk, is of the greatest assistance
in making the community one in which it is worth while to live. Not only does it serve as a
stimulus to those who look forward to the fair and put into their art the very best of their
ability in order that they may surpass their competitor next door, but it also serves as an
inspiration to those who are denied the faculty of creating original designs, yet nevertheless
take keen pleasure in the production of beautiful needlework. It is to this latter class that
an exhibition of quilts is of real value, because it provides them with new patterns that can
be applied to the quilts which must be made. With fresh ideas for their inspiration, work which
would otherwise be tedious becomes a real pleasure.

