His activities were varied, for, in addition to his regular studies, he demonstrated considerable
skill in wood-carving and wax-modeling, and during this period won several prizes for poetical
compositions in Spanish, which, while sometimes juvenile in form and following closely after
Spanish models, reveal at times flashes of thought and turns of expression that show distinct
originality; even in these early compositions there is that plaintive undertone, that minor
chord of sadness, which pervades all his poems, reaching its fullest measure of pathos in the
verses written in his death-cell. He received a bachelor's degree according to the Spanish
system in 1877, but continued advanced studies in agriculture at the Ateneo, at the same time
that he was pursuing the course in philosophy in the Dominican University of Santo Tomas, where
in 1879 he startled the learned doctors by a reference in a prize poem to the Philippines as
his "patria," fatherland. This political heresy on the part of a native of the islands was
given no very serious attention at the time, being looked upon as the vagary of a schoolboy,
but again in the following year, by what seems a strange fatality, he stirred the resentment
of the friars, especially the Dominicans, by winning over some of their number the first prize
in a literary contest celebrated in honor of the author of Don Quixote.

The archaic instruction in Santo Tomas soon disgusted him and led to disagreements with the
instructors, and he turned to Spain. Plans for his journey and his stay there had to be made
with the utmost caution, for it would hardly have fared well with his family had it become
known that the son of a tenant on an estate which was a part of the University endowment was
studying in Europe. He reached Spanish territory first in Barcelona, the hotbed of radicalism,
where he heard a good deal of revolutionary talk, which, however, seems to have made but little
impression upon him, for throughout his entire career breadth of thought and strength of character
are revealed in his consistent opposition to all forms of violence.

In Madrid he pursued the courses in medicine and philosophy, but a fact of even more consequence
than his proficiency in his regular work was his persistent study of languages and his omnivorous
reading. He was associated with the other Filipinos who were working in a somewhat spectacular
way, misdirected rather than led by what may be styled the Spanish liberals, for more considerate
treatment of the Philippines. But while he was among them he was not of them, as his studious
habits and reticent disposition would hardly have made him a favorite among those who were
enjoying the broader and gayer life there. Moreover, he soon advanced far beyond them in thought
by realizing that they were beginning at the wrong end of the labor, for even at that time
he seems to have caught, by what must almost be looked upon as an inspiration of genius, since
there was nothing apparent in his training that would have suggested it, the realization of
the fact that hope for his people lay in bettering their condition, that any real benefit must
begin with the benighted folk at home, that the introduction of reforms for which they were
unprepared would be useless, even dangerous to them. This was not at all the popular idea among
his associates and led to serious disagreements with their leaders, for it was the way of toil
and sacrifice without any of the excitement and glamour that came from drawing up magnificent
plans and sending them back home with appeals for funds to carry on the propaganda--for the
most part banquets and entertainments to Spain's political leaders.

His views, as revealed in his purely political writings, may be succinctly stated, for he had
that faculty of expression which never leaves any room for doubt as to the meaning. His people
had a natural right to grow and to develop, and any obstacles to such growth and development
were to be removed. He realized that the masses of his countrymen were sunk deep in poverty
and ignorance, cringing and crouching before political authority, crawling and groveling before
religious superstition, but to him this was no subject for jest or indifferent neglect--it
was a serious condition which should be ameliorated, and hope lay in working into the inert
social mass the leaven of conscious individual effort toward the development of a distinctive,
responsible personality. He was profoundly appreciative of all the good that Spain had done,
but saw in this no inconsistency with the desire that this gratitude might be given cause to
be ever on the increase, thereby uniting the Philippines with the mother country by the firm
bonds of common ideas and interests, for his earlier writings breathe nothing but admiration,
respect, and loyalty for Spain and her more advanced institutions. The issue was clear to him
and he tried to keep it so.

It was indeed administrative myopia, induced largely by blind greed, which allowed the friar
orders to confuse the objections to their repressive system with an attack upon Spanish sovereignty,
thereby dragging matters from bad to worse, to engender ill feeling and finally desperation.
This narrow, selfish policy had about as much soundness in it as the idea upon which it was
based, so often brought forward with what looks very suspiciously like a specious effort to
cover mental indolence with a glittering generality, "that the Filipino is only a grown-up
child and needs a strong paternal government," an idea which entirely overlooks the natural
fact that when an impressionable subject comes within the influence of a stronger force from
a higher civilization he is very likely to remain a child--perhaps a stunted one--as long as
he is treated as such. There is about as much sense and justice in such logic as there would
be in that of keeping a babe confined in swaddling-bands and then blaming it for not knowing
how to walk. No creature will remain a healthy child forever, but, as Spain learned to her
bitter cost, will be very prone, as the parent grows decrepit and it begins to feel its strength,
to prove a troublesome subject to handle, thereby reversing the natural law suggested by the
comparison, and bringing such Sancho-Panza statecraft to flounder at last through as hopeless
confusion to as absurd a conclusion as his own island government.

Rizal was not one of those rabid, self-seeking revolutionists who would merely overthrow the
government and maintain the old system with themselves in the privileged places of the former
rulers, nor is he to be classed among the misguided enthusiasts who by their intemperate demands
and immoderate conduct merely strengthen the hands of those in power. He realized fully that
the restrictions under which the people had become accustomed to order their lives should be
removed gradually as they advanced under suitable guidance and became capable of adjusting
themselves to the new and better conditions. They should take all the good offered, from any
source, especially that suited to their nature, which they could properly assimilate. No great
patience was ever exhibited by him toward those of his countrymen--the most repulsive characters
in his stories are such--who would make of themselves mere apes and mimes, decorating themselves
with a veneer of questionable alien characteristics, but with no personality or stability of
their own, presenting at best a spectacle to make devils laugh and angels weep, lacking even
the hothouse product's virtue of being good to look upon.

Reduced to a definite form, the wish of the more thoughtful in the new generation of Filipino
leaders that was growing up was that the Philippine Islands be made a province of Spain with
representation in the Cortes and the concomitant freedom of expression and criticism. All that
was directly asked was some substantial participation in the management of local affairs, and
the curtailment of the arbitrary power of petty officials, especially of the friar curates,
who constituted the chief obstacle to the education and development of the people.

The friar orders were, however, all-powerful, not only in the Philippines, but also in Madrid,
where they were not chary of making use of a part of their wealth to maintain their influence.
The efforts of the Filipinos in Spain, while closely watched, do not seem to have been given
any very serious attention, for the Spanish authorities no doubt realized that as long as the
young men stayed in Madrid writing manifestoes in a language which less than one per cent of
their countrymen could read and spending their money on members of the Cortes, there could
be little danger of trouble in the Philippines. Moreover, the Spanish ministers themselves
appear to have been in sympathy with the more moderate wishes of the Filipinos, a fact indicated
by the number of changes ordered from time to time in the Philippine administration, but they
were powerless before the strength and local influence of the religious orders. So matters
dragged their weary way along until there was an unexpected and startling development, a David-Goliath
contest, and certainly no one but a genius could have polished the "smooth stone" that was
to smite the giant.

It is said that the idea of writing a novel depicting conditions in his native land first came
to Rizal from a perusal of Eugene Sue's The Wandering Jew, while he was a student in Madrid,
although the model for the greater part of it is plainly the delectable sketches in Don Quixote,
for the author himself possessed in a remarkable degree that Cervantic touch which raises the
commonplace, even the mean, into the highest regions of art. Not, however, until he had spent
some time in Paris continuing his medical studies, and later in Germany, did anything definite
result. But in 1887 Noli Me Tangere was printed in Berlin, in an establishment where the author
is said to have worked part of his time as a compositor in order to defray his expenses while
he continued his studies. A limited edition was published through the financial aid extended
by a Filipino associate, and sent to Hongkong, thence to be surreptitiously introduced into
the Philippines.

Noli Me Tangere ("Touch Me Not") at the time the work was written had a peculiar fitness as
a title. Not only was there an apt suggestion of a comparison with the common flower of that
name, but the term is also applied in pathology to a malignant cancer which affects every bone
and tissue in the body, and that this latter was in the author's mind would appear from the
dedication and from the summing-up of the Philippine situation in the final conversation between
Ibarra and Elias. But in a letter written to a friend in Paris at the time, the author himself
says that it was taken from the Gospel scene where the risen Savior appears to the Magdalene,
to whom He addresses these words, a scene that has been the subject of several notable paintings.

In this connection it is interesting to note what he himself thought of the work, and his frank
statement of what he had tried to accomplish, made just as he was publishing it: "Noli Me Tangere,
an expression taken from the Gospel of St. Luke, [7] means touch me not. The book contains
things of which no one up to the present time has spoken, for they are so sensitive that they
have never suffered themselves to be touched by any one whomsoever. For my own part, I have
attempted to do what no one else has been willing to do: I have dared to answer the calumnies
that have for centuries been heaped upon us and our country. I have written of the social condition
and the life, of our beliefs, our hopes, our longings, our complaints, and our sorrows; I have
unmasked the hypocrisy which, under the cloak of religion, has come among us to impoverish
and to brutalize us, I have distinguished the true religion from the false, from the superstition
that traffics with the holy word to get money and to make us believe in absurdities for which
Catholicism would blush, if ever it knew of them. I have unveiled that which has been hidden
behind the deceptive and dazzling words of our governments. I have told our countrymen of our
mistakes, our vices, our faults, and our weak complaisance with our miseries there. Where I
have found virtue I have spoken of it highly in order to render it homage; and if I have not
wept in speaking of our misfortunes, I have laughed over them, for no one would wish to weep
with me over our woes, and laughter is ever the best means of concealing sorrow. The deeds
that I have related are true and have actually occurred; I can furnish proof of this. My book
may have (and it does have) defects from an artistic and esthetic point of view--this I do
not deny--but no one can dispute the veracity of the facts presented." [8]

But while the primary purpose and first effect of the work was to crystallize anti-friar sentiment,
the author has risen above a mere personal attack, which would give it only a temporary value,
and by portraying in so clear and sympathetic a way the life of his people has produced a piece
of real literature, of especial interest now as they are being swept into the newer day. Any
fool can point out errors and defects, if they are at all apparent, and the persistent searching
them out for their own sake is the surest mark of the vulpine mind, but the author has east
aside all such petty considerations and, whether consciously or not, has left a work of permanent
value to his own people and of interest to all friends of humanity. If ever a fair land has
been cursed with the wearisome breed of fault-finders, both indigenous and exotic, that land
is the Philippines, so it is indeed refreshing to turn from the dreary waste of carping criticisms,
pragmatical "scientific" analyses, and sneering half-truths to a story pulsating with life,
presenting the Filipino as a human being, with his virtues and his vices, his loves and hates,
his hopes and fears.

The publication of Noli Me Tangere suggests the reflection that the story of Achilles' heel
is a myth only in form. The belief that any institution, system, organization, or arrangement
has reached an absolute form is about as far as human folly can go. The friar orders looked
upon themselves as the sum of human achievement in man-driving and God-persuading, divinely
appointed to rule, fixed in their power, far above suspicion. Yet they were obsessed by the
sensitive, covert dread of exposure that ever lurks spectrally under pharisaism's specious
robe, so when there appeared this work of a "miserable Indian," who dared to portray them and
the conditions that their control produced exactly as they were--for the indefinable touch
by which the author gives an air of unimpeachable veracity to his story is perhaps its greatest
artistic merit--the effect upon the mercurial Spanish temperament was, to say the least, electric.
The very audacity of the thing left the friars breathless.

A committee of learned doctors from Santo Tomas, who were appointed to examine the work, unmercifully
scored it as attacking everything from the state religion to the integrity of the Spanish dominions,
so the circulation of it in the Philippines was, of course, strictly prohibited, which naturally
made the demand for it greater. Large sums were paid for single copies, of which, it might
be remarked in passing, the author himself received scarcely any part; collections have ever
had a curious habit of going astray in the Philippines.

Although the possession of a copy by a Filipino usually meant summary imprisonment or deportation,
often with the concomitant confiscation of property for the benefit of some "patriot," the
book was widely read among the leading families and had the desired effect of crystallizing
the sentiment against the friars, thus to pave the way for concerted action. At last the idol
had been flouted, so all could attack it. Within a year after it had begun to circulate in
the Philippines a memorial was presented to the Archbishop by quite a respectable part of the
Filipinos in Manila, requesting that the friar orders be expelled from the country, but this
resulted only in the deportation of every signer of the petition upon whom the government could
lay hands. They were scattered literally to the four corners of the earth: some to the Ladrone
Islands, some to Fernando Po off the west coast of Africa, some to Spanish prisons, others
to remote parts of the Philippines.

Meanwhile, the author had returned to the Philippines for a visit to his family, during which
time he was constantly attended by an officer of the Civil Guard, detailed ostensibly as a
body-guard. All his movements were closely watched, and after a few months the Captain-General
"advised" him to leave the country, at the same time requesting a copy of Noli Me Tangere,
saying that the excerpts submitted to him by the censor had awakened a desire to read the entire
work. Rizal returned to Europe by way of Japan and the United States, which did not seem to
make any distinct impression upon him, although it was only a little later that he predicted
that when Spain lost control of the Philippines, an eventuality he seemed to consider certain
not far in the future, the United States would be a probable successor. [9]

Returning to Europe, he spent some time in London preparing an edition of Morga's Sucesos de
las Filipinas, a work published in Mexico about 1606 by the principal actor in some of the
most stirring scenes of the formative period of the Philippine government. It is a record of
prime importance in Philippine history, and the resuscitation of it was no small service to
the country. Rizal added notes tending to show that the Filipinos had been possessed of considerable
culture and civilization before the Spanish conquest, and he even intimated that they had retrograded
rather than advanced under Spanish tutelage. But such an extreme view must be ascribed to patriotic
ardor, for Rizal himself, though possessed of that intangible quality commonly known as genius
and partly trained in northern Europe, is still in his own personality the strongest refutation
of such a contention.

Later, in Ghent, he published El Filibusterismo, called by him a continuation of Noli Me Tangere,
but with which it really has no more connection than that some of the characters reappear and
are disposed of. [10] There is almost no connected plot in it and hardly any action, but there
is the same incisive character-drawing and clear etching of conditions that characterize the
earlier work. It is a maturer effort and a more forceful political argument, hence it lacks
the charm and simplicity which assign Noli Me Tangere to a preeminent place in Philippine literature.
The light satire of the earlier work is replaced by bitter sarcasm delivered with deliberate
intent, for the iron had evidently entered his soul with broadening experience and the realization
that justice at the hands of decadent Spain had been an iridescent dream of his youth. Nor
had the Spanish authorities in the Philippines been idle; his relatives had been subjected
to all the annoyances and irritations of petty persecution, eventually losing the greater part
of their property, while some of them suffered deportation.

In 1891 he returned to Hongkong to practise medicine, in which profession he had remarkable
success, even coming to be looked upon as a wizard by his simple countrymen, among whom circulated
wonderful accounts of his magical powers. He was especially skilled in ophthalmology, and his
first operation after returning from his studies in Europe was to restore his mother's sight
by removing a cataract from one of her eyes, an achievement which no doubt formed the basis
of marvelous tales. But the misfortunes of his people were ever the paramount consideration,
so he wrote to the Captain-General requesting permission to remove his numerous relatives to
Borneo to establish a colony there, for which purpose liberal concessions had been offered
him by the British government. The request was denied, and further stigmatized as an "unpatriotic"
attempt to lessen the population of the Philippines, when labor was already scarce. This was
the answer he received to a reasonable petition after the homes of his family, including his
own birthplace, had been ruthlessly destroyed by military force, while a quarrel over ownership
and rents was still pending in the courts. The Captain-General at the time was Valeriano Weyler,
the pitiless instrument of the reactionary forces manipulated by the monastic orders, he who
was later sent to Cuba to introduce there the repressive measures which had apparently been
so efficacious in the Philippines, thus to bring on the interference of the United States to
end Spain's colonial power--all of which induces the reflection that there may still be deluded
casuists who doubt the reality of Nemesis.

Weyler was succeeded by Eulogio Despujols, who made sincere attempts to reform the administration,
and was quite popular with the Filipinos. In reply to repeated requests from Rizal to be permitted
to return to the Philippines unmolested a passport was finally granted to him and he set out
for Manila. For this move on his part, in addition to the natural desire to be among his own
people, two special reasons appear: he wished to investigate and stop if possible the unwarranted
use of his name in taking up collections that always remained mysteriously unaccounted for,
and he was drawn by a ruse deliberately planned and executed in that his mother was several
times officiously arrested and hustled about as a common criminal in order to work upon the
son's filial feelings and thus get him back within reach of the Spanish authority, which, as
subsequent events and later researches have shown, was the real intention in issuing the passport.
Entirely unsuspecting any ulterior motive, however, in a few days after his arrival he convoked
a motley gathering of Filipinos of all grades of the population, for he seems to have been
only slightly acquainted among his own people and not at all versed in the mazy Walpurgis dance
of Philippine politics, and laid before it the constitution for a Liga Filipina (Philippine
League), an organization looking toward greater unity among the Filipinos and coöperation for
economic progress. This Liga was no doubt the result of his observations in England and Germany,
and, despite its questionable form as a secret society for political and economic purposes,
was assuredly a step in the right direction, but unfortunately its significance was beyond
the comprehension of his countrymen, most of whom saw in it only an opportunity for harassing
the Spanish government, for which all were ready enough.

All his movements were closely watched, and a few days after his return he was arrested on
the charge of having seditious literature in his baggage. The friars were already clamoring
for his blood, but Despujols seems to have been more in sympathy with Rizal than with the men
whose tool he found himself forced to be. Without trial Rizal was ordered deported to Dapitan,
a small settlement on the northern coast of Mindanao. The decree ordering this deportation
and the destruction of all copies of his books to be found in the Philippines is a marvel of
sophistry, since, in the words of a Spanish writer of the time, "in this document we do not
know which to wonder at most: the ingenuousness of the Governor-General, for in this decree
he implicitly acknowledges his weakness and proneness to error, or the candor of Rizal, who
believed that all the way was strewn with roses." [11] But it is quite evident that Despujols
was playing a double game, of which he seems to have been rather ashamed, for he gave strict
orders that copies of the decree should be withheld from Rizal.

In Dapitan Rizal gave himself up to his studies and such medical practice as sought him out
in that remote spot, for the fame of his skill was widely extended, and he was allowed to live
unmolested under parole that he would make no attempt to escape. In company with a Jesuit missionary
he gathered about him a number of native boys and conducted a practical school on the German
plan, at the same time indulging in religious polemics with his Jesuit acquaintances by correspondence
and working fitfully on some compositions which were never completed, noteworthy among them
being a study in English of the Tagalog verb.

But while he was living thus quietly in Dapitan, events that were to determine his fate were
misshaping themselves in Manila. The stone had been loosened on the mountain-side and was bounding
on in mad career, far beyond his control.

III

    He who of old would rend the oak,
    Dream'd not of the rebound;
    Chain'd by the trunk he vainly broke
    Alone--how look'd he round?

                                    BYRON.

Reason and moderation in the person of Rizal scorned and banished, the spirit of Jean Paul
Marat and John Brown of Ossawatomie rises to the fore in the shape of one Andres Bonifacio,
warehouse porter, who sits up o' nights copying all the letters and documents that he can lay
hands on; composing grandiloquent manifestoes in Tagalog; drawing up magnificent appointments
in the names of prominent persons who would later suffer even to the shedding of their life's
blood through his mania for writing history in advance; spelling out Spanish tales of the French
Revolution; babbling of Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity; hinting darkly to his confidants
that the President of France had begun life as a blacksmith. Only a few days after Rizal was
so summarily hustled away, Bonifacio gathered together a crowd of malcontents and ignorant
dupes, some of them composing as choice a gang of cutthroats as ever slit the gullet of a Chinese
or tied mutilated prisoners in ant hills, and solemnly organized the Kataastaasang Kagalang-galang
Katipunan ng mga Anak ng Bayan, "Supreme Select Association of the Sons of the People," for
the extermination of the ruling race and the restoration of the Golden Age. It was to bring
the people into concerted action for a general revolt on a fixed date, when they would rise
simultaneously, take possession of the city of Manila, and--the rest were better left to the
imagination, for they had been reared under the Spanish colonial system and imitativeness has
ever been pointed out as a cardinal trait in the Filipino character. No quarter was to be asked
or given, and the most sacred ties, even of consanguinity, were to be disregarded in the general
slaughter. To the inquiry of a curious neophyte as to how the Spaniards were to be distinguished
from the other Europeans, in order to avoid international complications, dark Andres replied
that in case of doubt they should proceed with due caution but should take good care that they
made no mistakes about letting any of the Castilas escape their vengeance. The higher officials
of the government were to be taken alive as hostages, while the friars were to be reserved
for a special holocaust on Bagumbayan Field, where over their incinerated remains a heaven-kissing
monument would be erected.

This Katipunan seems to have been an outgrowth from Spanish freemasonry, introduced into the
Philippines by a Spaniard named Morayta and Marcelo H. del Pilar, a native of Bulacan Province
who was the practical leader of the Filipinos in Spain, but who died there in 1896 just as
he was setting out for Hongkong to mature his plans for a general uprising to expel the friar
orders. There had been some masonic societies in the islands for some time, but the membership
had been limited to Peninsulars, and they played no part in the politics of the time. But about
1888 Filipinos began to be admitted into some of them, and later, chiefly through the exertions
of Pilar, lodges exclusively for them were instituted. These soon began to display great activity,
especially in the transcendental matter of collections, so that their existence became a source
of care to the government and a nightmare to the religious orders. From them, and with a perversion
of the idea in Rizal's still-born Liga, it was an easy transition to the Katipunan, which was
to put aside all pretense of reconciliation with Spain, and at the appointed time rise to exterminate
not only the friars but also all the Spaniards and Spanish sympathizers, thus to bring about
the reign of Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity, under the benign guidance of Patriot Bonifacio,
with his bolo for a scepter.

With its secrecy and mystic forms, its methods of threats and intimidation, the Katipunan spread
rapidly, especially among the Tagalogs, the most intransigent of the native peoples, and, it
should be noted, the ones in Whose territory the friars were the principal landlords. It was
organized on the triangle plan, so that no member might know or communicate with more than
three others--the one above him from whom he received his information and instructions and
two below to whom he transmitted them. The initiations were conducted with great secrecy and
solemnity, calculated to inspire the new members with awe and fear. The initiate, after a series
of blood-curdling ordeals to try out his courage and resolution, swore on a human skull a terrific
oath to devote his life and energies to the extermination of the white race, regardless of
age or sex, and later affixed to it his signature or mark, usually the latter, with his own
blood taken from an incision in the left arm or left breast. This was one form of the famous
"blood compact," which, if history reads aright, played so important a part in the assumption
of sovereignty over the Philippines by Legazpi in the name of Philip II.

Rizal was made the honorary president of the association, his portrait hung in all the meeting-halls,
and the magic of his name used to attract the easily deluded masses, who were in a state of
agitated ignorance and growing unrest, ripe for any movement that looked anti-governmental,
and especially anti-Spanish. Soon after the organization had been perfected, collections began
to be taken up--those collections were never overlooked--for the purpose of chartering a steamer
to rescue him from Dapitan and transport him to Singapore, whence he might direct the general
uprising, the day and the hour for which were fixed by Bonifacio for August twenty-sixth, 1896,
at six o'clock sharp in the evening, since lack of precision in his magnificent programs was
never a fault of that bold patriot, his logic being as severe as that of the Filipino policeman
who put the flag at half-mast on Good Friday.

Of all this Rizal himself was, of course, entirely ignorant, until in May, 1896, a Filipino
doctor named Pio Valenzuela, a creature of Bonifacio's, was despatched to Dapitan, taking along
a blind man as a pretext for the visit to the famous oculist, to lay the plans before him for
his consent and approval. Rizal expostulated with Valenzuela for a time over such a mad and
hopeless venture, which would only bring ruin and misery upon the masses, and then is said
to have very humanly lost his patience, ending the interview "in so bad a humor and with words
so offensive that the deponent, who had gone with the intention of remaining there a month,
took the steamer on the following day, for return to Manila." [12] He reported secretly to
Bonifacio, who bestowed several choice Tagalog epithets on Rizal, and charged his envoy to
say nothing about the failure of his mission, but rather to give the impression that he had
been successful. Rizal's name continued to be used as the shibboleth of the insurrection, and
the masses were made to believe that he would appear as their leader at the appointed hour.

Vague reports from police officers, to the effect that something unusual in the nature of secret
societies was going on among the people, began to reach the government, but no great attention
was paid to them, until the evening of August nineteenth, when the parish priest of Tondo was
informed by the mother-superior of one of the convent-schools that she had just learned of
a plot to massacre all the Spaniards. She had the information from a devoted pupil, whose brother
was a compositor in the office of the Diario de Manila. As is so frequently the case in Filipino
families, this elder sister was the purse-holder, and the brother's insistent requests for
money, which was needed by him to meet the repeated assessments made on the members as the
critical hour approached, awakened her curiosity and suspicion to such an extent that she forced
him to confide the whole plan to her. Without delay she divulged it to her patroness, who in
turn notified the curate of Tondo, where the printing-office was located. The priest called
in two officers of the Civil Guard, who arrested the young printer, frightened a confession
out of him, and that night, in company with the friar, searched the printing-office, finding
secreted there several lithographic plates for printing receipts and certificates of membership
in the Katipunan, with a number of documents giving some account of the plot.

Then the Spanish population went wild. General Ramon Blanco was governor and seems to have
been about the only person who kept his head at all. He tried to prevent giving so irresponsible
a movement a fictitious importance, but was utterly powerless to stay the clamor for blood
which at once arose, loudest on the part of those alleged ministers of the gentle Christ. The
gates of the old Walled City, long fallen into disuse, were cleaned and put in order, martial
law was declared, and wholesale arrests made. Many of the prisoners were confined in Fort Santiago,
one batch being crowded into a dungeon for which the only ventilation was a grated opening
at the top, and one night a sergeant of the guard carelessly spread his sleeping-mat over this,
so the next morning some fifty-five asphyxiated corpses were hauled away. On the twenty-sixth
armed insurrection broke out at Caloocan, just north of Manila, from time immemorial the resort
of bad characters from all the country round and the center of brigandage, while at San Juan
del Monte, on the outskirts of the city, several bloody skirmishes were fought a few days later
with the Guardia Civil Veterana, the picked police force.

Bonifacio had been warned of the discovery of his schemes in time to make his escape and flee
to the barrio, or village, of Balintawak, a few miles north of Manila, thence to lead the attack
on Caloocan and inaugurate the reign of Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity in the manner in
which Philippine insurrections have generally had a habit of starting--with the murder of Chinese
merchants and the pillage of their shops. He had from the first reserved for himself the important
office of treasurer in the Katipunan, in addition to being on occasions president and at all
times its ruling spirit, so he now established himself as dictator and proceeded to appoint
a magnificent staff, most of whom contrived to escape as soon as they were out of reach of
his bolo. Yet he drew considerable numbers about him, for this man, though almost entirely
unlettered, seems to have been quite a personality among his own people, especially possessed
of that gift of oratory in his native tongue to which the Malay is so preeminently susceptible.

In Manila a special tribunal was constituted and worked steadily, sometimes through the siesta-hour,
for there were times, of which this was one, when even Spanish justice could be swift. Bagumbayan
began to be a veritable field of blood, as the old methods of repression were resorted to for
the purpose of striking terror into the native population by wholesale executions, nor did
the ruling powers realize that the time for such methods had passed. It was a case of sixteenth-century
colonial methods fallen into fretful and frantic senility, so in all this wretched business
it is doubtful whim to pity the more: the blind stupidity of the fossilized conservatives incontinently
throwing an empire away, forfeiting their influence over a people whom they, by temperament
and experience, should have been fitted to control and govern; or the potential cruelty of
perverted human nature in the dark Frankenstein who would wreak upon the rulers in their decadent
days the most hideous of the methods in the system that produced him, as he planned his festive
holocaust and carmagnole on the spot where every spark of initiative and leadership among his
people, both good and bad, had been summarily and ruthlessly extinguished. There is at least
a world of reflection in it for the rulers of men.

In the meantime Rizal, wearying of the quiet life in Dapitan and doubtless foreseeing the impending
catastrophe, had requested leave to volunteer his services as a physician in the military hospitals
of Cuba, of the horrors and sufferings in which he had heard. General Blanco at once gladly
acceded to this request and had him brought to Manila, but unfortunately the boat carrying
him arrived there a day too late for him to catch the regular August mail-steamer to Spain,
so he was kept in the cruiser a prisoner of war, awaiting the next transportation. While he
was thus detained, the Katipunan plot was discovered and the rebellion broke out. He was accused
of being the head of it, but Blanco gave him a personal letter completely exonerating him from
any complicity in the outbreak, as well as a letter of recommendation to the Spanish minister
of war. He was placed on the Isla de Panay when it left for Spain on September third and traveled
at first as a passenger. At Singapore he was advised to land and claim British protection,
as did some of his fellow travelers, but he refused to do so, saying that his conscience was clear.

