Stop! Listen: If there are 30,000 young women on this City's Soul-Market, and we place the
average value of one of these young women at $1,800, AND WE CERTAINLY DO PLACE IT THERE, by
established, recognized precedent, then there is $54,000,000 worth of young womanhood in the
Slave-Market of our City at the present time. In the same statistical speech Mr. Roe places
the number of young girls necessary yearly to recruit the rapidly decimating ranks of this
vast Death Army at six thousand; hence, $10,800,000 worth of innocent girlhood must be sacrificed
from our stores and factories, our homes or firesides all over the Land every twelve mouths
to feed and satisfy the horrible flesh-market of Human Slavery in the "levee" districts of
Chicago alone.

Harry A. Parkin, Assistant U. S. District Attorney, in WOMEN'S WORLD, March, 1909, says:

     "The Federal investigations in Chicago and other localities have
     clearly established the fact that, generally speaking, houses of
     ill-fame in large cities do not draw their recruits to any great
     extent from the territory immediately surrounding them; for various
     reasons the White Slavers who are the recruiting agents of this vile
     traffic prefer to work in States more or less distant from the
     centers to which victims are destined."

In view of all this, it must be clearly apparent that the need of the hour is legislation which
will make it as difficult and dangerous for a White Slaver to take his victim from one State
into another as it is to bring them from France, Italy, Canada or any other foreign country,
to a house of ill-fame in Chicago or any American city. Therefore, it is suggested that if
each State in the Union would enact and enforce laws against this importation, this terrible
traffic would be dealt a blow in its most vulnerable part.

One of the strangest results brought about by the recent White Slave prosecutions in Chicago
and the wide publicity which they have received has been the astonishment of thousands of persons,
as evidenced by letters, at the fact that such a wholesale traffic is actually in existence,
but what is still more astounding, not to say discouraging, is the reluctance of other thousands
to believe that many hundreds of men and women are actually engaged in the business of luring
young girls and women to their destruction and that this infamous traffic is being carried
on in every state of the Union every day of the year.

It is estimated by those who should know, that at least five thousand men in Chicago live off
of the earnings of prostitution. For instance as to the plan: A young girl, alien or American,
is sold into a life of ill-fame for say Two Hundred Dollars, as the actual price of her procuring.
Before she suspects any real harm, she is lured into a restaurant or a wine-room, becomes intoxicated,
is sufficiently doped to become passive, is taken to the "house" to which she has been consigned
and is immediately "broken in" in the most violent and nauseating manner, perhaps becoming
the prey of twenty or thirty men. Beaten, threatened with exposure, and, if necessary, purposely
infected with gonorrhea, the girl is within twenty-four hours absolutely ruined for all time--"spoiled,"
the police say. Oh! what a whole world of agony and pain and bruises and disease and Hell is
embodied in that one word "spoiled." She is immediately pressed into service and from that
time on until death relieves her, or she is rescued by some one enough interested to help her,
she must receive all comers THIRTY DAYS every month.

This answers the question I have been asked a hundred times from all over the Country since
CHICAGO'S SOUL MARKET was first published, as to whether a woman in a house of prostitution
is allowed any respite from service during the Menstrual Period. SHE IS NOT ALLOWED A SINGLE
DAY. The average number of men who must be served by each woman in a medium or lower class
house of ill-fame is thirty-six per day. On entrance to the place, if the house be a "Dollar
house," a metal room-check is purchased from the madam or attendant at the door for one dollar.
This check is taken up by the girl in the room and is worth on presentation to the house fifty
cents, half of its face value being received by the house for board, laundry, hair dressing,
etc., all of which must be paid for at the highest possible rates. Of the remaining fifty cents,
twenty-five cents goes to the man who sold the girl into the house, the remaining twenty-five
cents going to the girl herself and from this amount must be paid all bills for clothes, dentistry,
and all other expenses. In almost every known case, however, with which the writer is at all
familiar, the entire fifty per cent goes intact to the owner of the girl, her necessary expenses
being paid by him and the balance pocketed for his own use.

Just as the liquor trade is thoroughly and carefully financed and organized even in its weakest
points, making successful prosecution against it a thing impossible, just so is the traffic
in young women protected in all its details. The writer has in mind the case of Josie E----,
fifteen years old, who came from her suburban home in Illinois, hoping to secure employment
in the City. Arriving at the Dearborn Street Railway Station about nine o'clock, she started
out to find a hotel in which to spend the night. Walking a few steps from the Station, she
was accosted at State and Polk streets by a young man who asked her what she was looking for.
Replying that she was looking for a hotel, the man Thompson told her he was employed at a hotel
on Polk Street opposite the railway station and offered to take the girl there. Unacquainted
with the City and relying on his word, she accompanied him to the hotel, where she was outraged
and detained for weeks. She was finally rescued by the writer and a Y. W. C. A. worker. Taking
her to my rooms, I found her physical condition such that I sent for a detective from the Harrison
Street Police Station who investigated her story and finding it true in every particular, arrested
Thompson at his place of employment, 41 Polk Street. The case coming up in the Harrison Street
Municipal Court, was so manipulated by the defense that in the transferring of it to the Criminal
Court a technical error threw it out altogether. I simply give this as an example of how almost
utterly impossible it is to secure a conviction in these cases. Is it any wonder when back
of this great evil stands at least a hundred million dollars?

Listen, seventy-five per cent of the women and girls entering lives of ill-fame in Chicago
are from adjoining States and country districts--they are utter strangers in our City. Every
hour, day or night, year in and year out, four great central railway passenger stations discharge
their precious human freight within the first ward of Chicago, the richest and wickedest political
ward in the world--the ward of Michael Kenna (Hinky Dink) and "Bathhouse" John Coughlin--the
ward feeding every district of prostitution and gambling and unnatural horror in the City--the
ward with two miles of indecent resorts, whole armies of reeking lost women, hundreds of pandering
men procurers and White Slavers--the ward of thousands of Turkish, Italian and Arabian immigrants,
and opium-parched pagan Chinese--the ward in which every day thousands of women, many of whom
without money or friends, are looking for work, are unloaded in this seething cauldron of vice,
their only refuge being, when without funds, the Police Station or the house of ill-repute.

The horror of conditions surrounding a woman without money or friends in Chicago makes the
living of a moral life almost impossible for her. I have in mind the case of a deserted little
Italian woman, G. P----[2], living in Plymouth Court, south of Polk Street. G. had three little
baby girls, the eldest only four years, and was expecting another child soon. She was deserted
by her husband and left without a dollar or a friend to face life and care for herself and
babies. The case came into the hands of the Mission and she was cared for by them until the
time of her confinement, when, with her children, she was taken to Dunning Poorhouse where
she was kindly cared for. A baby boy was born to G. Great pressure was brought to bear upon
this little Italian mother who spoke no word of English, to induce her to give up her children.
Frightened and weeping, she refused to do this, declaring she would make a living for them,
and leaving the Poorhouse, she started out taking the baby and another child with her, hoping
soon to earn the money to care for the other two.

This she was fortunate enough to accomplish, and, taking the four little ones dear to her heart,
went back to the little room on the top floor of the tenement in Plymouth Court. G. got work
in a sweatshop and made button-holes at $2.50 a week. She worked hard to keep up, but the baby
sickened and died. The other children began to get thin and wan. They grew hungry before her
eyes and the mother's heart frightened and sank within her. A fiend in human form, J. F----,
came by and offered the half-starved mother bread for herself and babies, offered her marriage
as soon as it could be arranged for. G. took the bread and fed her children and to-day up on
the top floor of the tenement in Plymouth Court, again deserted and hungry and helpless, she
cries and prays and makes button-holes, and waits and waits with fear and wretchedness the
coming of another little child.

The proprietor of the great resort on the corner of 21st and Dearborn streets said not long
ago to a co-worker of mine who forced her way into his infamous dive:

     "Don't come here to bother my girls; it is of no use; they are rotten
     and ripe for H----. Soon I will throw them out myself. Go to the
     department stores and the sweatshops and help the underpaid,
     friendless girl there if you must work. I could write a book as
     large as that (pointing to the City Directory) filled with shrieks
     and groans of women after they are lost, but what good would it do?
     They are gone then forever."

In a great measure, the man told the truth. It is hard to reach a woman after she has once
entered a life of prostitution; for, like the Inferno of old, there should be emblazoned in
letters of blood above the barred door of every White Slave mart in America, the ancient warning:

     "Leave hope behind, all ye who enter here."

There's many a girl homeless and tempted, underpaid and destitute, who might be saved from
a life of ill-fame if a helping hand and a shelter were offered her in her hour of indecision
and hunger and despair.

In the south wall of the basement of 114 Federal Street, formerly known as Custom House Place,
that congested, central Redlight District of three years ago, there was a blind passage-way
between 114 and 116 Custom House Place, 116 being the notorious dive "The California" now located
at ---- Armour Avenue. On the inside, this door opened into a large dungeon, windowless, sound-proof
(about 7x10 feet) and it is alleged that it was through the alley and into this blind passage-way
that the unwilling victims of White Slavers (the same syndicate now operating with Chicago
as headquarters) were carried into this little solitary cell to be "broken in" by fiendish,
brute force to a life of shame.

The accompanying photograph secured by the writer gives at least a faint idea of this frightful
trap against the pitiless walls of which have, no doubt, beat the agonized shrieks of many
an innocent girl--your sister and mine--as, baptising this hell-hole with blood and tears,
her quivering body was crucified upon a whore-monger's cross of gold and then torn down to
be cast, bruised, bleeding, but yet alive, into five years of the awful, seething moral Golgotha
of prostitution and then into =lingering death=.

The Chicago Rescue Mission and Woman's Shelter of which the writer is President, has for two
years occupied the premises at 114 Custom House Place. Upon moving into the place we found
every window incased in heavy iron bars while between the bars and the glass of each window
was mortised a one-half inch steel screen (see cut). Entrance or exit from the building was
as utterly impossible as from a penitentiary, excepting by the =front door=, and to bring the
place within the requirements of the City law it was necessary to bring a suit through the
Municipal Court against the owner of the building, Mrs. Spiegel, against whom through the aid
of Assistant Prosecuting Attorney Oleson, we obtained a verdict and forced her thereon to put
in a rear stairway (see Court records).

114 Custom House Place is only one of the fifty similarly notorious dens in the old Redlight
district, and yet it is impossible to make some people believe that there is such a thing as
forcible detention of a woman in a Chicago house of prostitution.

FROM THE "WOMAN'S WORLD"

I quote the following incident cited by Assistant Prosecuting Attorney Roe in an article of
recent date in WOMAN'S WORLD, illustrating some of the schemes and plans for leading a girl
into a life of ill-fame. Mr. Roe says:

     "A year ago last summer, 15-year old Margaret Smith was working about
     her simple home near Benton Harbor, Michigan. The father, employed by
     the Pere Marquette Railroad, was away from home a good share of the
     time. One day a graphophone agent came to the house and the family
     became interested in one of his musical machines. Shortly afterward
     this agent brought with him to the Smith home Frank Kelly, and
     introduced him to Maggie, as she was called by her folks. In a day or
     two Margaret was on her way to Chicago with Kelly who promised her an
     excellent position in the City. Upon her arrival Margaret was sold to
     one of the worst dives in Chicago, located on South Clark Street and
     owned by an Italian named Baptista Pizza. Here she learned that her
     captor's name was not Frank Kelly, but an Italian whose real name is
     Alphonso Citro. For a year she was kept as a Slave in this resort,
     which was over a saloon, and the entrance was through a back alley.
     The only visitors were Italians, who came for immoral purposes.
     Learning last summer that Margaret's father, who had been hunting
     relentlessly for his daughter, was on the track of her, the girl was
     taken by Alphonso Citro, alias Kelly, to Gary, Indiana. When the
     father came to the resort with a policeman, he found that his
     daughter had gone. She was kept in Gary about two months and then
     returned to this disreputable place from which she escaped finally,
     the Monday before last Christmas. A young barber took pity on her
     after hearing her story, and enlisted the sympathies of his parents
     who took her to their home. Alphonso Citro (Kelly) looked for her
     almost a week, and at last saw her going from a store to this home,
     where she was staying. He went to the house and demanded at the point
     of a revolver that she be given up, as he said:

     "I am losing money every day she is gone."

     "There was a quarrel over the girl during which some people from the
     outside were attracted to the house by the commotion. Citro, becoming
     frightened, fled down the street, and as he ran, threw away the
     revolver with which he had tried to shoot the father of the barber
     during the quarrel, over the fence into a coal yard. After running
     two blocks, he was caught and arrested. Upon these facts this
     procurer, Citro, alias Kelly, was prosecuted and found guilty under
     the new pandering law of Illinois, and received a sentence of one
     year of imprisonment and a fine of five hundred dollars. The poor
     father and mother, distressed and heart-broken, were in Court during
     the trial with their arms around each other, sobbing with joy because
     their little girl had been found. Pizza[3], the owner of the place,
     was indicted by the State grand jury, but escaped to Italy. This case
     is told to show how girls leave home upon the promise of securing
     employment and are in this way procured for places of ill-repute."

Chicago's Soul Market.

"O, he keeps a bunch of 'fillies' in a shanty down near the corner of Monroe and Peoria streets,
and they're not foreigners, either. They're American girls. No wonder he can make a bet like
that on a mere chance from a roll of yellow backs."

The speaker was the madam of a Peoria street resort, the listeners, a motley crowd of women
gathered in the rear of a popular saloon and gambling house not far from the corner of Green
and Madison streets, on the seething, congested West Side of Chicago. These women had assembled
in that screened back room to risk their hard earned or evil-gotten money on the horses of
the Louisville race track.

There sat a little 18-year old, brown-eyed milliner, her dissipated face hollow and drawn from
worry and lack of sleep and an insufficient quantity of nourishing food, while near her a white-haired
old lady in shabby black was tightly grasping two quarters, her entire worldly possession.
Just across sat a well-dressed woman restaurant keeper, a young eastern star and half a hundred
others, above all of whom shone the yellow haired madam of the Peoria Street resort, the star
patron of that great gambling room for women, each one of whom was eagerly beckoning the well-groomed
book-maker, feverishly anxious to get her pittance on the race-track favorite, when a connecting
door was pushed suddenly open and in rushed a fashionably dressed, brutal-faced young Russian
Jew, holding loosely an immense roll of money. Tens, twenties, hundreds--he counted them until
three hundred dollars had been placed to win upon a "clocker tip" in that day's last race in
Louisville.

There was grim, deadly silence--eating, unbearable silence in that gambling room as they waited
the ring of the telephone and the name of the winner. Again the yellow haired madam's voice
screamed shrilly out, for she was indeed ill at ease, her money was all on the favorite--"Yes,
a bunch of American 'fillies' peddled out at 50 cents an hour to all comers, black or white,
sick or sound. No wonder he can make a play like that on an outside chance."

Three-hundred dollars! My heart stood still almost. The thought flashed through my brain that
that wager meant hundreds of hours of shame and slavery and horror to those girls in the shanties
down on Peoria street, some mother's girl, every one of them. I sat still for a little while
and watched the feverish anxious throng about me. My heart kept going faster and faster until
I could bear it no longer. American "fillies" and body and soul under a brutal Russian whore-monger!
I slipped quietly out into the street; night was coming on, and I walked down Madison and south
on Peoria. Yes, there were the shanties--poor, wretched hovels, every one of them. Out shone
the flickering red lights, out came the discordant, rasping sound of the rented piano, out
belched the shrieks and groans of drunken harlots mingled with the curses of task-masters in
a foreign tongue, attracting the attention of the hundreds of laborers, negroes and boys, as
they walked home on Peoria street from their day's work. On I went until I came to a little
shed just north of the slum saloon occupied by one Shellstadt at the corner of Monroe and Peoria
streets, and checking my steps, I looked around me on the squalid, wretched scene. I was in
the midst of prostitution at its lowest--the heart-breaking dregs of Chicago's thirty thousand
public women. Yes, there they were--the fair young American girl, the stolid Russian Jewess,
the middle-aged, syphiletic harlot, living, prostituting, dying like so many hurt, broken moths
around that great red-light--Chicago's West Side Soul Market--their poor, wrecked, foul smelling
bodies sold day and night at from twenty-five to fifty cents an hour to all comers who could
pay the pitiful price demanded by their brutal, soulless masters; and, as I looked, the burning
fire of intense pity entered my soul for these drug and drink-sodden, diseased and chained
slaves--my sisters in Christ and this great, free American Republic, and so, with a heart-consuming
desire to know more of the lives of these scarlet women and to help them, if possible, I began
at once a thorough personal investigation of Chicago's public Slave Market, visiting these
people whenever occasion offered; talking with them, gaining their much abused confidence,
until I gradually learned the inside lines of the saddest story America has ever known since
the black mothers of our Southland were torn from their black and white babies and with shrieks
of agony and heart strings bleeding and soul rent with blackened horror were sold to death
on the plantations of Louisiana and Mississippi, and I want to tell you who read this and who
think there is little truth in the now much agitated question of White Slavery in America,
that in the dives and dens of our City's underworld I have heard shrieks and heart cries and
groans of agony and remorse that have never been surpassed at any public slave auction America
has ever witnessed, as these girls, many of them, oh! so young, realizing their awful fate,
with scalding tears and moans of horror, shut out from their hearts and lives father or mother
or husband and child, and turned their sob-shaken, tortured bodies to face the years of final,
relentless wretchedness and woe, to be at last thrown out sick and broken, to die in some alley
or to be carted off to Dunning poorhouse to gradual physical decay and a pauper's burial and
grave of obliteration, while those who sold them just a few years before go out in their diamonds
and fine linen and their great automobiles to buy up more girls (it might be your daughter,
father, mother; or it might be mine) to fill the vacancy in the ranks of this vast army of
White Slaves.

A woman said to me the other day, and it was in a lofty, sneering tone, too: "I doubt if these
women are ever coerced or even imposed upon."

LISTEN; READ, THEN LISTEN.

Sitting in my office one afternoon I listened, my blood almost freezing, to the following story
vouched for by Mr. C----, an immigration inspector and brother of a well-known Chicago reform
worker. Here it is as he told it to me:

     "One evening some time ago I was looking up a case down in the
     Twenty-Second Street red-light district, and visited and inspected,
     looking for immigrant girls held illegally, a certain house of the
     lower class in that neighborhood of prostitution. While in the house
     I noticed a young woman lying very ill (in the last stages of
     pneumonia, if I remember the story exactly) and in a semi-conscious
     condition, and to my horror upon inquiry I learned that in the rush
     hours of business this helpless, pain-racked young woman was open to
     all comers holding an accredited room check."

Dear friends, there are true stories heard and known every day around the City's seething,
blood-red Soul Market that cannot be put into print--stories, though, that were they to become
known, would make decent Chicago rise as one man and cry with a voice outspeaking Fort Sumter,
"White Slavery in Chicago and in America must cease!"

During my years of study of this question of prostitution I learned to know personally many
of the characteristic White Slaves of the West and South Side "levees." One "Alice" I shall
never, never forget. Beautiful aside from her dissipation, a high school graduate, grammar
and syntax perfect, manner exquisite. "Alice," seduced at eighteen, was at the age of twenty-one
away down the line in the West Side levee underworld. I used to talk many times with Alice
as she sat in the back parlor of the "house" on Peoria street that gave her shelter, awaiting
her call of "next" to go up stairs with whosoever--negro, white or Chinese--might buy for one
dollar (one of the dollars of the Republic on which is eternally stamped the blessed words,
"In God we Trust") possession of her beautiful body for one hour. Smoking, always smoking her
doped Turkish cigarette, Alice told me much of her life, both in years gone forever and of
a daily "levee" existence. She told me of a father and mother and a beautiful home, of a lover
who came into it and led her away by night into "levee" Slavery--of the awful disgrace and
disinheritance, of a little baby that she only knew an hour, of insane remorse and anguish,
until at last she would stand and scream and scream with mental pain until some whore-monger
knocked her senseless, and then how she would crawl away to some near-by shanty saloon and
drink herself helpless, to forget.

As far as I know Alice is still on Peoria street, and, oh! men and women, there are thirty
thousand of these Alices in Chicago's great blasting Soul Market to-day.

United States Attorney Sims puts the average life of a prostitute at ten years or less, while
other excellent authorities put it as low as five years, as these women must constantly drink
any and all drinks purchased for them by visitors (as much of the business revenue is derived
from the sale of these drinks), thus forcing them at all times into a half-drunken condition,
rendering them helpless to control the abnormal, sickening, mind and body wrecking demands
made upon them by the gonorrheal, syphilitic, sodden wretches of whom not one in ten is capable
of normal sexual coalition, yet whose debauched, drunken desires and requirements, no matter
how unnatural and revolting, must be satisfied by the use of the bodies of their hopeless victims
at fifty or even as low as twenty-five cents an hour.

Very few young women entering this cesspool of prostitution are able to live therein an average
of eight weeks without becoming infected with one or more of the loathsome diseases of the
underworld, and thus ruined and horrible they live on and on for three, four or six years,
and at the end of that time thirty thousand pure young girls, gathered from prairie homes and
village firesides and from out of our own suburban and city families, must march out into this
great Soul Market to take the place of the broken wretches whose decaying bodies are cast into
the refuse of our alleys and sewers to become the menace of every girl and boy and drunken
man who comes within their clutches or sets foot within their alley hovels.

THE END OF THE WAY.

At about ten o'clock on Saturday evening, September 19th, I boarded a West Madison street car
and, transferring north at Halsted street, alighted at Lake and walked west to Lewinsky's saloon
at the corner of Lake and Green streets. Going around to the side entrance on Green street,
I discovered in the wine and back rooms of the wretched place a crowd of perhaps fifty drunken,
dirty, diseased men and women, most of them foul-smelling, young white girls huddled in with
the worst mob of negroes, whites and Chinese I have seen in Chicago's slums, all cursing, drinking,
singing and blaspheming in plain view and hearing of the street. I stopped a moment to make
sure I was making no mistake in what I saw and then crossed the street to interview the dark-eyed
little foreign girl who at its door was boldly soliciting trade for the saloon and its adjacent
evils, just opposite.

I walked on down to Peoria and south on that notorious street.

In the row of houses running from Lake to Randolph street there are approximately six hundred
White Slaves, and diseased, crippled prostitutes of the lowest class, dumped from the city's
cleaner dives, and on that night it was almost impossible to push one's way through the mass
of men and boys--whites, negroes, Turks, Polocks, etc., gathered in front of these places of
public abomination. At the corner of Randolph and Peoria streets several earnest men and women
were holding a little gospel meeting, and, stopping with them, I counted during the thirty
minutes I stayed there six hundred and forty (approximately) men and boys stop in front of
or enter this horrible flesh market.

As I left the scene, a young girl in a drunken, filthy, diseased condition slipped out of an
alley and followed me, asking me to help her, and as we sat on the steps of Saints Peter and
Paul Cathedral, corner of Washington boulevard and Peoria street, she told me the worst, most
heart-breaking story of wrong and vice and ruin I have ever listened to (see note.)[4]

As I left that West Side levee of vice I knew I had seen prostitution at its lowest ebb and
that from these holes of horror finally went those awful alley women of the night to sell their
soul and trail their black disease to any young boy or drunken man who could give them a few
cents or even the price of a drink of whiskey.

Coming down Custom House Place one night about 10:30 o'clock I overtook, without their knowledge,
six boys, ranging from about twelve down to perhaps seven years, three of whom I knew fairly
well. Following them from shadow to shadow, I gathered sufficient of their low-voiced conversation
to make me certain they had been holding an orgy in a nearby cellar or basement with a drunken
harlot, and that together they had paid her the small sum of seventeen cents for this damning,
soul-destroying commerce. One boy, a lad of about nine years, had been wheedled by his companions
into paying ten cents of this sum and was arguing for the return of at least a part of his
money, because of the age and helplessness of the woman and the =extreme short time= allowed
him by his companions in his relations with her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. J. J. Sloan, when he was superintendent of the John Worthy School, which is the local juvenile
municipal reformatory, reported that one-third of the street boys sent to him were suffering
from the loathsome diseases and distempers of the red-light district, nor is this to be wondered
at when we consider the fact that sexual commerce may be purchased almost anywhere in South
State street and in the West Side alleys for the remarkably low price of ten cents, or even
a glass of beer or whiskey, from the gonorrheal, syphilitic denizens thrown out long ago from
the better class houses of prostitution to live off of the half-drunken men and boys to be
found in swarms along South State, Halsted and South Clark streets.

Almost invariably, the street boy haunting these underworld sections of our city is first led
into sexual sin by one of the crippled, half-rotten, yet painted vampires of the streets whose
only care or hope is a crust of free lunch and enough whiskey or "dope" to drown for a time
at least the last throb of heart and conscience and keep life a little longer in the wretched
body, and the boy having purchased for a small fee his own destruction trails out again into
the night and on into disease and crime and prison, and finally death.

The average parent of to-day has little idea of the temptations which constantly surround and
beset the growing boy. I recall a case in Des Moines, Iowa, where a little degenerate girl
of sixteen caused the moral, and in several cases physical, ruin of five young boys, all this
happening in an exclusive East Side neighborhood and under the watchful care of honest parents
and friends, so what must be the temptation thrown out to the young boys of our city when through
block after block of our central districts they must come in contact with those whose only
mission is to ruin and debauch.

It should be the direct object, morally and physically, of every father and mother in this
city to banish these parasites--these leeches who suck the life blood of our boys--from Chicago's
streets.

Listen, father, mother, there are thirty thousand pure, dearly beloved young girls growing
up in our midst to-day who within five years must, under the present business system of White
Slavery, put aside father, mother, home, friends and honor, and march into Chicago's ghastly
flesh market to take the place of the thirty thousand helpless, hopeless, decaying chattels
who now daily, behind bolts and bars and steel screens (see note[5]), satisfy the abominable
lust of (approximately) two hundred and ten thousand brutal, drunken adulterers.

I believe, as I write, that the final solving of this reeking, hideous question lies in the
moral and Christian teaching and protection of the growing girls of our Land. I believe in
a rigidly enforced law that keeps girls under legal age and unattended, off the down town streets
at nights after a reasonable hour. Harry Balding, the convicted White Slaver, in his confession
before Judge Newcomer and State's Attorney Roe, said:

     "We would be sent out by resort keepers to work up some girls, for
     whom we were paid from $10 to $50 dollars each, though the cash bonus
     was much more. The majority of them were girls we met on the streets.
     We would go around to the penny arcades and nickel theaters, and when
     we saw a couple of young girls we would go up and talk with them. I
     will say for myself--I never took a girl away from her home; the
     girls I took down there I met in the stores or on the streets."

There is a league of Masonry worldwide that makes it possible for a Mason anywhere, in trouble
or distress, to raise his hand toward the heavens with a certain sign, and if there be a brother
Mason within reach, that brother, no matter of what nationality, kindred or tongue, is sworn
to give him all needed protection. Listen, father, mother, sister; listen, brother!

To-day from beneath Chicago's awful moral sewerage system, which has sucked their hearts and
souls under, thirty thousand trembling hands are held up to High Heaven and to you for help,
hands reeking with the blood on which some whore monger has fattened, the hands though of your
sisters and of mine. And I believe that here in Chicago, the greatest market for White Slaves
on the Continent, should be formed a league that would become world-wide, of earnest, law-abiding
men and women whose efforts, united with those of the proper police, municipal and Federal
authorities, would make it practically impossible for a girl to be sold into or compelled to
lead an immoral life, and through whose influence such open, publicly-protected flesh markets
as our red-light and levee districts would be banished forever from Chicago streets. And I
believe with all my heart that this can only be accomplished by education, by agitation, by
legislation, by the ballot and by the power of God, directing a great national army of well
informed, moral and Christian men and women against this vast, thoroughly organized, well administered
and heavily financed public horror of our Republic.

