If the after-birth comes away of its own accord, as will generally happen when due patience
has been exercised, it may be severed from the child and put aside for the inspection of the
doctor, for he should learn by examining it whether everything has come away properly. The
cord must be securely tied in two places with the sterilized bobbin mentioned in the list of
articles for confinement. One ligature is applied about two inches from the child's abdomen,
the other an inch nearer the placenta; the cord is then cut between them with a pair of sterile
scissors. Anyone fearful of injuring the infant may prevent accident by spreading a diaper
under the part of the cord to be severed. This precaution also protects the bed from soiling,
for there will be a single spurt of blood the instant the cord is cut. So long as the child
is in good condition there is no urgent need of this operation. If the child is breathing satisfactorily
it may generally be deferred until the doctor arrives. When this course is chosen the attendant
will wrap the infant in a warm blanket, place it along with the after-birth in a safe spot,
and subsequently devote herself to making the mother comfortable.

The vulva and neighboring parts are bathed with a 1-1000 bichlorid solution. Soiled dressings
are removed, the gown changed, and, if necessary, clean sheets put on the bed. A sterile sanitary
pad is placed over the vulva and a fresh one substituted as often as necessary, but none of
the pads should be destroyed. All the dressings must be saved so that the doctor may see how
much blood has been lost. As we have learned, bleeding regularly occurs while the placenta
is separating and thereafter; excessive bleeding will rarely follow a normal delivery if the
attendant has heeded the precaution to leave everything to nature. If ever the loss of blood
should become alarming before the doctor arrives, it is advisable to raise the foot of the
bed, to keep the patient quietly on her back, to grasp the womb through the abdominal wall,
and to massage it constantly until the nearest physician can be gotten.

Of these directions the most important is that which relates to the management of the womb,
for in cases in which labor has been normal in other respects the relaxation of its muscle
is most often responsible for flooding. What to do in this event must therefore be made plain.
First the patient should try to empty her bladder, and, if she cannot, pressure made above
the organ will usually expel the urine. The attendant will then take her seat on the edge of
the bed, facing the patient's feet, and will locate the womb. When there is flooding one may
expect to recognize the womb as a large, rather soft mass lying in the mid-line of the abdomen
with its upper margin somewhat above the navel. With one hand, or with both if necessary, the
mass is grasped in such a way that the fingers cover the top of it and pass backward toward
the spinal column; the thumb remains in contact with the front of the organ. The womb is stroked
and squeezed much as one kneads dough, and for this reason the procedure is technically called
kneading. Such manipulations cause the muscle fibers to contract firmly, and in consequence
the blood vessels are tightly closed and bleeding ceases. Similarly, cold applications to the
abdominal wall tend to provoke uterine contractions; placing over the womb an ice-cap or towels
wrung out of cold water and doubled several times often have a beneficial influence when there
is a tendency toward relaxation. Some physicians also recommend that the child be placed at
the breast, since suckling is known to cause uterine contractions. There are other measures
which are occasionally employed, but they should be used only by physicians, for in the hands
of an inexperienced person they may do more harm than good.

