The reader may now consider himself introduced to the household with whom he is invited to
sojourn. In time he will grow better acquainted with the different members of the family, as
they in their several ways develop their own individuality. A remark from old Mr. Clifford
indicates that another guest is expected, who, unlike ourselves, will be present in reality,
not fancy, and who is destined to become a permanent inmate of the home.

"This is a bitter day," he said, "for little Amy to come to us; and yet, unless something unforeseen
prevents, she will be at the station this evening."

"Don't worry about the child," Burtis responded, promptly; "I'll meet her, and am glad of an
excuse to go out this horrid day. I'll wrap her up in furs like an Esquimau."

"Yes, and upset her in the drifts with your reckless driving," said good-natured Leonard. "Thunder
is wild enough at any time; but of late, between the cold, high feeding, and idleness, he'll
have to be broken over again; lucky if he don't break your neck in the operation. The little
girl will feel strange enough, anyway, coming among people that she has never seen, and I don't
intend that she shall be frightened out of her wits into the bargain by your harum-scarum ways.
You'd give her the impression that we were only half-civilized. So I'll drive over for her
in the family sleigh, and take Alf with me. He will be nearer her own age, and help to break
the ice. If you want a lark, go out by yourself, and drive where you please, after your own
break-neck style."

"Leonard is right," resumed Mr. Clifford, emphatically. "The ward committed to me by my dear
old friend should be brought to her home with every mark of respect and affection by the one
who has the best right to represent me. I'd go myself, were not the cold so severe; but then
Leonard's ways are almost as fatherly as my own; and when his good wife there gets hold of
the child she'll soon be fused into the family, in spite of the zero weather. She'll find all
the cold without the door."

"I yield," said Burtis, with a careless laugh. "Len shall bring home the little chick, and
put her under his wife's wing. I should probably misrepresent the family, and make a bad first
impression; and as for Webb, you might as well send the undertaker for her."

"I don't think she will feel strange among us very long," said Leonard's wife. "She shall hang
up her stocking to-night, like the other children, and I have some nice little knick-knacks
with which to fill it. These, and the gifts which the rest of you have provided, will delight
her, as they do all little people, and make her feel at once that she is part of the family."

"Maggie expresses my purpose fully," concluded Mr. Clifford. "As far as it is within our power,
we should make her one of the family. In view of my friend's letters, this is the position
that I desire her to sustain, and it will be the simplest and most natural relation for us
all. Your mother and I will receive her as a daughter, and it is my wish that my sons should
treat her as a sister from the first."

Amy Winfield, the subject of the above remarks, was the only daughter of a gentleman who had
once been Mr. Clifford's most intimate friend, and also his partner in many business transactions.
Mr. Winfield had long resided abroad, and there had lost the wife whom he had married rather
late in life. When feeling his own end drawing near, his thoughts turned wistfully to the friend
of his early manhood, and, as he recalled Mr. Clifford's rural home, he felt that he could
desire no better refuge for his child. He had always written of her as his "little girl," and
such she was in his fond eyes, although in fact she had seen eighteen summers. Her slight figure
and girlish ways had never dispelled the illusion that she was still a child, and as such he
had commended her to his friend, who had responded to the appeal as to a sacred claim, and
had already decided to give her a daughter's place in his warm heart. Mr. Winfield could not
have chosen a better guardian for the orphan and her property, and a knowledge of this truth
had soothed the last hours of the dying man.

It struck Leonard that the muffled figure he picked up at the station and carried through the
dusk and snow to the sleigh was rather tall and heavy for the child he was expecting; but he
wrapped her warmly, almost beyond the possibility of speaking, or even breathing, and spoke
the hearty and encouraging words which are naturally addressed to a little girl. After seeing
that her trunks were safely bestowed in a large box-sledge, under the charge of black Abram,
one of the farm-hands, he drove rapidly homeward, admonishing Alfred, on the way, "to be sociable."
The boy, however, had burrowed so deep under the robes as to be invisible and oblivious. When
Leonard was about to lift her out of the sleigh, as he had placed her in it, the young girl
protested, and said:

"I fear I shall disappoint you all by being larger and older than you expect."

A moment later he was surprised to find that the "child" was as tall as his wife, who, with
abounding motherly kindness, had received the girl into open arms. Scarcely less demonstrative
and affectionate was the greeting of old Mr. Clifford, and the orphan felt, almost from the
first, that she had found a second father.

"Why, Maggie," whispered Leonard, "the child is as tall as you are!"

"There's only the more to welcome, then," was the genial answer, and, turning to the young
girl, she continued, "Come with me, my dear; I'm not going to have you frightened and bewildered
with all your new relations before you can take breath. You shall unwrap in your own room,
and feel from the start that you have a nook where no one can molest you or make you afraid,
to which you can always retreat;" and she led the way to a snug apartment, where an air-tight
stove created summer warmth. There was a caressing touch in Mrs. Leonard's assistance which
the young girl felt in her very soul, for tears came into her eyes as with a deep sigh of relief
she sat down on a low chair.

"I feared I should be a stranger among strangers," she murmured; "but I already feel as if
I were at home."

"You are, Amy," was the prompt reply, spoken with that quiet emphasis which banishes all trace
of doubt. "You are at home as truly as I am. There is nothing halfway in this house. Do you
know we all thought that you were a child? I now foresee that we shall be companions, and very
companionable, too, I am sure."

There was a world of grateful good-will in the dark hazel eyes which Amy lifted to the motherly
face bending over her.

"And now come," pursued Mrs. Leonard; "mother Clifford, the boys, and the children are all
eager to see you. You won't find much ice to break, and before the evening is over you will
feel that you belong to us and we to you. Don't be afraid."

"I am not afraid any more. I was, though, on my way here. Everything looked so cold and dismal
from the car windows, and the gentleman in whose care I was had little to say, though kind
and attentive enough. I was left to my own thoughts, and gave way to a foolish depression;
but when your husband picked me up in his strong arms, and reassured me as if I were a little
girl, my feeling of desolation began to pass away. Your greeting and dear old Mr. Clifford's
have banished it altogether. I felt as if my own father were blessing me in the friend who
is now my guardian, and of whom I have heard so often; and, after my long winter journey among
strangers, you've no idea what a refuge this warm room has already become. Oh, I know I shall
be happy. I only wish that dear papa knew how well he has provided for me."

"He knows, my dear. But come, or that incorrigible Burt will be bursting upon us in his impatience,
and the little mother must not be kept waiting, either. You will soon learn to love her dearly.
Weak and gentle as she is, she rules us all."

"Mother's room" was, in truth, the favorite haunt of the house, and only her need of quiet
kept it from being full much of the time. There was nothing bleak or repelling in the age it
sheltered, and children and grandchildren gathered about the old people almost as instinctively
as around their genial open fire. This momentous Christmas-eve found them all there, a committee
of reception awaiting the new inmate of their home. There was an eager desire to know what
Amy was like, but it was a curiosity wholly devoid of the spirit of criticism. The circumstances
under which the orphan came to them would banish any such tendency in people less kindly than
the Cliffords; but their home-life meant so much to them all that they were naturally solicitous
concerning one who must, from the intimate relations she would sustain, take from or add much
to it. Therefore it was with a flutter of no ordinary expectancy that they waited for her appearance.
The only one indifferent was Leonard's youngest boy, who, astride his grandpa's cane, was trotting
quietly about, unrestricted in his gambols. Alfred had thawed out since his return from the
station, and was eager to take the measure of a possible playmate; but, with the shyness of
a boy who is to meet a "strange girl," he sought a partial cover behind his grandfather's chair.
Little "Johnnie" was flitting about impatiently, with her least mutilated doll upon her arm;
while her uncle Burtis, seated on a low stool by his mother's sofa, pretended to be exceedingly
jealous, and was deprecating the fact that he would now be no longer petted as her baby, since
the child of her adoption must assuredly take his place. Webb, who, as usual, was somewhat
apart from the family group, kept up a poor pretence of reading; and genial Leonard stood with
his back to the fire, his hands clasped behind him, beaming upon all, and waiting to shine
on the new-comer. Only Mr. Clifford seemed uninfluenced by the warm, bright present. He gazed
fixedly into the flickering blaze, and occasionally took off his spectacles to wipe away the
moisture that gathered in his eyes. His thoughts, evidently, were busy with years long past,
and were following that old, tried friend who had committed to his hands so sacred a trust.

The door opened, and Mrs. Leonard led Amy forward. The latter hesitated a moment, bewildered
by the number of eyes turned toward her, and the new relations into which she was entering.
She proved that she was not a child by her quick, blushing consciousness of the presence of
two young men, who were as yet utter strangers; and they, in turn, involuntarily gave to the
lender, brown-haired girl quite a different welcome from the one they had expected to bestow
upon a child. Old Mr. Clifford did not permit her embarrassment to last a moment, but, stepping
hastily forward, and encircling her with his arm, he led her to his wife, who brought tears
into the eyes of the motherless girl by the gentle warmth of her greeting. She monopolized
her ward so long that impatient Burtis began to expostulate, and ask when his turn was coming.
The young girl turned a shy, blushing face toward him, and her cheeks, mantling under the full
rays of the lamp, rendered the exquisite purity of her complexion all the more apparent. He
also began to feel that he was flushing absurdly, but he carried it off with his usual audacity.

"I am much embarrassed and perplexed," he said. "I was led to expect a little sister that I
could romp with, and pick up and kiss; but here is a young lady that almost paralyzes me with awe."

"I'd like to see you paralyzed from any such cause just once," Leonard remarked, laughingly.
"Go kiss your sister, like a little man."

The young fellow seemed to relish the ceremony exceedingly, and responsive mirthfulness gleamed
for a moment in Amy's eyes. Then he dragged Webb forward, saying, "Let me introduce to you
the grave and learned member of the family, to whom we all speak with bated breath. You must
not expect him to get acquainted with you in any ordinary way. He will investigate you, and
never rest until he has discovered all the hidden laws of your being. Now, Webb, I will support
you while Amy kisses you, and then you may sit down and analyze your sensations, and perhaps
cipher out a method by which a kiss can be rendered tenfold more effective."

Unmoved by his brother's raillery, Webb took the young girl's hand, and looked at her so earnestly
with his dark, grave eyes, that hers drooped. "Sister Amy," he said, gently, "I was prepared
to welcome you on general principles, but I now welcome you for your own sake. Rattle-brain
Burt will make a good playmate, but you will come to me when you are in trouble;" and he kissed
her brow.

The girl looked up with a swift, grateful glance; it seemed odd to her, even at that moment
of strong and confused impressions, and with the salutes of her guardians still warm upon her
cheek, that she felt a sense of rest and security never known before. "He will be my brother
in very truth," was the interpretation which her heart gave to his quiet words. They all smiled,
for the course of the reticent and undemonstrative young man was rather unexpected. Burtis
indulged in a ringing laugh, as he said:

"Father, mother, you must both feel wonderfully relieved. Webb is to look after Amy in her
hours of woe, which, of course, will be frequent in this vale of tears. He will console you,
Amy, by explaining how tears are formed, and how, by a proper regard for the sequence of cause
and effect, there might be more or less of them, according to your desire."

"I think I understand Webb," was her smiling answer.

"Don't imagine it. He is a perfect sphinx. Never before has he opened his mouth so widely,
and only an occasion like this could have moved him. You must have unconsciously revealed a
hidden law, or else he would have been as mum as an oyster."

Leonard, meanwhile, had seated himself, and was holding little Ned on his knee, his arm at
the same time encircling shy, sensitive Johnnie, who was fairly trembling with excited expectancy.
Ned, with his thumb in his mouth, regarded his new relative in a nonchalant manner; but to
the little girl the home-world was the world, and the arrival in its midst of the beautiful
lady never seen before was as wonderful as any fairy tale. Indeed, that such a June-like creature
should come to them that wintry day--that she had crossed the terrible ocean from a foreign
realm far more remote, in the child's consciousness, than fairy-land--seemed quite as strange
as if Cinderella had stepped out of the storybook with the avowed purpose of remaining with
them until her lost slipper was found. Leonard, big and strong as he was, felt and interpreted
the delicate and thrilling organism of his child, and, as Amy turned toward him, he said, with
a smile:

"No matter about me. We're old friends; for I've known you ever since you were a little girl
at the station. What if you did grow to be a young woman while riding home! Stranger things
than that happen every day in storybooks, don't they, Johnnie? Johnnie, you must know, has
the advantage of the rest of us. She likes bread-and-butter, and kindred realities of our matter-of-fact
sphere, but she also has a world of her own, which is quite as real. I think she is inclined
to believe that you are a fairy princess, and that you may have a wand in your pocket by which
you can restore to her doll the missing nose and arm."

Amy scarcely needed Leonard's words in order to understand the child, for the period was not
remote when, in her own mind, the sharp outlines of fact had shaded off into the manifold mysteries
of wonderland. Therefore, with an appreciation and a gentleness which won anew all hearts,
she took the little girl on her lap, and said, smilingly:

"I have a wee wand with which, I'm sure, I can do much for you, and perhaps something for dolly.
I can't claim to be a fairy princess, but I shall try to be as good to you as if I were one."

Webb, with his book upside down, looked at the young girl in a way which proved that he shared
in Johnnie's wonder and vague anticipation. Alfred, behind his grandfather's chair, was the
only one who felt aggrieved and disappointed. Thus far he had been overlooked, but he did not
much care, for this great girl could be no companion for him. Amy, however, had woman's best
grace--tact--and guessed his trouble. "Alf," she said, calling him by his household name, and
turning upon him her large hazel eyes, which contained spells as yet unknown even to herself--"Alf,
don't be disappointed. You shall find that I am not too big to play with you."

The boy yielded at once to a grace which he would be years in learning to understand, and which
yet affected him subtilely, and with something of the same influence that it had upon Webb,
who felt that a new element was entering into his life. Mercurial Burtis, however, found nothing
peculiar in his own pleasant sensations. He had a score of young lady friends, and was merely
delighted to find in Amy a very attractive young woman, instead of a child or a dull, plain-featured
girl, toward whom brotherly attentions might often become a bore. He lived intensely in the
present hour, and was more than content that his adopted sister was quite to his taste.

"Well, Amy," said Mr. Clifford, benignantly, "you seem to have stepped in among us as if there
had always been a niche waiting for you, and I think that, after you have broken bread with
us, and have had a quiet sleep under the old roof, you will feel at home. Come, I'm going to
take you out to supper to-night, and, Burt, do you be as gallant to your mother."

The young fellow made them all laugh by imitating his father's old-style courtesy; and a happy
circle of faces gathered around the board in the cheerful supper-room, to which a profuse decoration
of evergreens gave a delightfully aromatic odor. Mr. Clifford's "grace" was not a formal mumble,
but a grateful acknowledgment of the source from which, as he truly believed, had flowed all
the good that had blessed their life; and then followed the genial, unrestrained table-talk
of a household that, as yet, possessed no closeted skeleton. The orphan sat among them, and
her mourning weeds spoke of a great and recent sorrow, which might have been desolation, but
already her kindling eyes and flushed cheeks proved that this strong, bright current of family
life would have the power to carry her forward to a new, spring-like experience. To her foreign-bred
eyes there was an abundance of novelty in this American home, but it was like the strangeness
of heaven to the poor girl, who for months had been so sad and almost despairing. With the
strong reaction natural to youth after long depression, her heart responded to the glad life
about her, and again she repeated the words to herself, "I'm sure--oh, I am sure I shall be
happy here."

CHAPTER III

A COUNTRY FIRESIDE

After supper they all gathered for a time in the large general sitting-room, and careful Leonard
went the rounds of the barn and out-buildings. Mr. Clifford, with considerate kindness, had
resolved to defer all conversation with Amy relating to her bereavement and the scenes that
had ensued. At this holiday-time they would make every effort within their power to pierce
with light and warmth the cold gray clouds that of late had gathered so heavily over the poor
child's life. At the same time their festivities would be subdued by the memory of her recent
sorrow, and restricted to their immediate family circle. But, instead of obtrusive kindness,
they enveloped her in the home atmosphere, and made her one of them. The manner in which old
Mrs. Clifford kept her near and retained her hand was a benediction in itself.

Leonard was soon heard stamping the snow from his boots on the back piazza, and in a few moments
he entered, shivering.

"The coldest night of the year," he exclaimed. "Ten below zero, and it will probably be twelve
before morning. It's too bad, Amy, that you have had such a cold reception."

"The thermometer makes a good foil for your smile," she replied. "Indeed, I think the mercury
rose a little while you were looking at it."

"Oh no," he said, laughing, "even you could not make it rise to-night. Heigho, Ned! coming
to kiss good-night? I say, Ned, tell us what mamma has for Amy's stocking. What a good joke
it is, to be sure I We all had the impression you were a little girl, you know, and selected
our gifts accordingly. Burt actually bought you a doll. Ha! ha! ha! Maggie had planned to have
you hang up your stocking with the children, and such a lot of little traps and sweets she
has for you!"

The boy, to whom going to bed at the usual hour was a heavy cross on this momentous evening,
promptly availed himself of a chance for delay by climbing on Amy's lap, and going into a voluble
inventory of the contents of a drawer into which he had obtained several surreptitious peeps.
His effort to tell an interminable story that he might sit up longer, the droll havoc he made
with his English, and the naming of the toys that were destined for the supposed child, evoked
an unforced merriment which banished the last vestige of restraint.

"Well, I'm glad it has all happened so," said Amy, after the little fellow had reluctantly
come to the end of his facts and his invention also. "You make me feel as if I had known you
for years--almost, indeed, as if I had come to you as a little girl, and had grown up among
you. Come, Ned, it shall all turn out just as you expected. I'll go with you upstairs, and
hang my stocking beside yours, and mamma shall put into it all the lovely things you have told
me about. Santa Claus does not know much about my coming here, nor what kind of a girl I am,
so your kind mamma meant to act the part of Santa Claus in my behalf this year, and give him
a chance to get acquainted with me. But he knows all about you, and there's no telling how
soon he may come to fill your stocking. You know he has to fill the stockings of all the little
boys and girls in the country, and that will take a long time. So I think we had better go
at once, for I don't believe he would like it if he came and found you up and awake."

This put a new aspect upon going to bed early, and having seen his short, chubby stocking dangling
with a long, slender one of Amy's by the chimney-side, Ned closed his eyes with ineffable content
and faith. Amy then returned to the sitting-room, whither she was soon followed by Maggie,
and after some further light and laughing talk the conversation naturally drifted toward those
subjects in which the family was practically interested.

"What do you think, father?" Leonard asked. "Won't this finish the peach and cherry buds? I've
always heard that ten degrees of cold below zero destroyed the fruit germs."

