Our Frank, and other stories, by Amy Walton.

Here we have half-a-dozen short stories, in that wonderful Amy Walton style, so very evocative
of dear England as it used to be.

Frank thinks life at home is a bit hard, as his father expects so much of him, so he runs away.
After several adventures he finds himself in a very awkward situation, as the young companion
he had fallen in with turns out to be a thief.  Luckily the thief's victim realises that Frank
is not a bad lad after all, makes no charge against him, and even takes him home.  So all is
well that ends well.

For the most part the other stories have a moral to tell, but they are all charming, and you
will enjoy reading to them or listening to them.

OUR FRANK, AND OTHER STORIES, BY AMY WALTON.

STORY ONE, CHAPTER 1.

OUR FRANK--A BUCKINGHAMSHIRE STORY.

  "From east to west,
  At home is best."
  German proverb.

It was a mild spring evening, and Mrs Frank Darvell was toiling slowly up Whiteleaf Hill on
her way back from market.  She had walked every step of the way there to sell her ducklings,
and now the basket on her arm was heavy with the weight of various small grocery packets. 
Up till now she had not felt so tired, partly because she had been walking along the level
high-road, and partly because the way had been beguiled by the chat of a friend; but after
she had said good-night to her crony at the beginning of the village, and turned up the steep
chalky road which led to the hills, her fatigue increased with every step, and the basket seemed
heavier than ever.  It was a very lonely mile she had to go before reaching home; up and up
wound the rough white road, and then gave a sudden turn and ran along level a little while
with dark woods on either side.  Then up again, steeper than ever, till you reached the top
of the hill, and on one side saw the plain beneath, dotted over with villages and church spires,
and on the other hand wide sloping beech woods, which were just now delicately green with their
young spring leaves.

Mrs Darvell set her basket down on the ground when she reached this point, and drew a long
breath; the worst of the walk was over now, and she thought with relief how good it would be
to pull off her boots, and hoped that Frank had not forgotten to have the kettle on for tea.
She presently trudged on again with renewed spirits, and in ten minutes more the faint blue
smoke from a chimney caught her eye; that was neighbour Gunn's cottage, and their own was close
by.  "And right thankful I be," said Mrs Darvell to herself as she unlatched the little garden
gate.

The cottage was one of a small lonely cluster standing on the edge of an enormous beech wood.
Not so very long ago the wood had covered the whole place; but gradually a clearing had been
made, the ground cultivated, and a little settlement had sprung up, which was known as "Green
Highlands."  It belonged to the parish of Danecross, a village in the plain below, three good
miles away; so that for church, school, and public-house the people had to descend the long
hill up which Mrs Darvell had just struggled.  Shops there were none, even in Danecross, and
for these they had to go a mile further, to the market-town of Daylesbury.  But all this was
not such a hardship to the people of Green Highlands as might be supposed, and many of them
would not have changed their cottage on the hill for one in the village on the plain; for the
air of Green Highlands was good, the children "fierce," which in those parts means healthy
and strong, and everyone possessed a piece of garden big enough to grow vegetables and accommodate
a family pig.

So the people, though poor, were contented, and had a more prosperous well-to-do air than some
of the Danecross folk, who received higher wages and lived in the valley.

The room Mrs Frank Darvell entered with a heavy, tired tread was a good-sized kitchen, one
end of which was entirely occupied by a huge open fireplace without any grate; on the hearth
burned and crackled a bright little wood-fire, the flames of which played merrily round a big
black kettle hung on a chain.  A little checked curtain hung from the mantel-shelf to keep
away the draught which rushed down the wide open chimney, on each side of which was a straight-backed
wooden settle.  The dark smoke-dried rafters were evidently used as larder and storehouse,
for all manner of things hung from them, such as a side of bacon, tallow dips, and a pair of
clogs.  Two or three pieces of oak furniture, brought to a high state of polish by Mrs Darvell's
industrious hands, gave an air of comfort to the room, though the floor was red-brick and bare
of carpet; a tall brazen-faced clock ticked deliberately behind the door.  On one of the settles
in the chimney-corner sat Mrs Darvell's "man," as she called her husband, smoking a short pipe,
with his feet stretched out on the hearth; his great boots, caked with mud, stood beside him.
He was a big broad-shouldered fellow, about forty, with a fair smooth face, which generally
looked good-tempered enough, and somewhat foolish, but which just now had a sullen expression
on it, which Mrs Darvell's quick eye noted immediately.  He looked up and nodded when his wife
came in, without taking the pipe out of his mouth.

"Well, I'm proper tired," she said, bumping her basket down with a sigh of relief.  "That Whiteleaf
Hill do spend one so after a day's marketing."  Then glancing at the muddy boots on the hearth:
"Bin ploughin'?"

Mr Darvell nodded again, and looked inquiringly at his wife's basket. Answering this silent
question she said:

"I sold 'em fairly well.  Mrs Reuben got more; but hers was fatter." 

Elkins and Graves.

Famous auctioneers to a resignation. Born.

98. Exeter "Briggam."
One of the cub so, one at the boys ago. Charlie debt.

99. Francis. Deceased.

100.

"potter"
Gorham: ARTHUR GORHAM.

Attended of an young discharge by
his weapon now thirty years nearly. A deceased naturalist.

101. "accidental
Scott."

In thirty-three years Woodbury at every Syntax School
on Exeter. For his period, that few years ago, the homecoming was
killed which was keep by old pupils from a State of the Union, at
do him honor.  Gazing at his wife across this
barrier he nodded again, and presently murmured somewhat indistinctly:

"Ah, he came home with me."

"Then," repeated Mrs Darvell, fixing her eyes sharply on him, "where is the lad?"

Mr Darvell avoided his wife's gaze.

"How should I know where he is?" he answered sullenly.  "I haven't seen him, not for these
two hours.  He's foolin' round somewheres with the other lads."

"That's not like our Frank," said Mrs Darvell, giving an anxious look round at the tall clock.
"Why, it's gone eight," she went on.  "What can have got him?"

Her eyes rested suspiciously on her husband, who shifted about uneasily.

"Can't you let the lad bide?" he said; "ye'll not rest till ye make him a greater ninny nor
he is by natur.  He might as well ha' bin a gell, an better, for all the good he'll ever be."

"How did he tackle the ploughin'?" asked Mrs Darvell, pausing in the act of setting aside Frank's
supper on the dresser.

"Worser nor ever," replied her husband contemptuously.  "He'll never be good for nowt, but
to bide at home an' keep's hands clean.  Why, look at Eli Redrup, not older nor our Frank,
an' can do a man's work already."

"Eli Redrup!" exclaimed Mrs Darvell in a shrill tone of disgust; "you'd never even our lad
to a great fullish lout like Eli Redrup, with a head like a turmut!  If Frank isn't just so
fierce as some lads of his age, he's got more sense than most."

"I tell 'ee, he'll never be good for nowt," replied her husband doggedly, as he resumed his
seat in the chimney-corner and lighted his pipe.

"Onless," he added after a moment's pause, "he comes to be a schoolmaster; and it haggles me
to think that a boy of mine should take up a line like that."

Mrs Darvell made no answer; but as she washed up the cups and plates she cast a curious glance
every now and then at her husband's silent figure, for she had a strong feeling that he knew
more than he chose to tell about "our" Frank's absence.

"Our Frank" had more than once been the innocent cause of a serious difference of opinion between
Mr and Mrs Darvell.  He was their only child, and had inherited his father's fair skin and
blue eyes, and his mother's quickness of apprehension; but here the likeness to his parents
ended, for he had a sensitive nature and a delicate frame--things hitherto unknown in Green
Highlands.  This did not matter so much during his childhood, when he earned golden opinions
from rector and schoolmaster in Danecross, as a fine scholar, and one of the best boys in the
choir; but the time came when Frank was thirteen, when he had gone through all the "Standards,"
when he must leave school, and begin to work for his living.  It was a hard apprenticeship,
for something quite different from brain-work was needed now, and the boy struggled vainly
against his physical weakness.  It was a state of things so entirely incomprehensible to Mr
Darvell, that, as he expressed it, "it fairly haggled him."  Weakness and delicacy were conditions
entirely unknown to him and all his other relations, and might, he thought, be avoided by everyone
except very old people and women; so Frank must be hardened, and taught not to shirk his work.

The hardening process went on for some time, but not with a very satisfactory result, for added
to his weakness the boy now showed an increasing terror of his father.  He shrank from the
hard words or the uplifted hand with an evident fear, which only strengthened Mr Darvell's
anger, for it mortified him still more to find his lad a coward as well as a bungler over his work.

Frank, on his side, found his life almost intolerable just now, and all his trembling efforts
"to work like a man" seemed utterly useless, for he was crippled by fear as well as weakness.
He could not take things like the other Green Highland lads of his age, who were tough of nerve
and sinew, and thought nothing of cuffs on the head and abuse.  It was all dreadful to him,
and he suffered as much in apprehension as in the actual punishment when it came.  Mingled
with it all was a hot sense of injustice, for he tried to do his best, and yet was always in
disgrace and despair.  Where was the use of having been such a good "scholard?" That seemed
wasted now, for Frank's poor little brain felt so muddled after a day's field-work, and he
was altogether so spent with utter weariness, that the only thing to do was to tumble into
bed, and books were out of the question.  He was being "hardened," as his father called it,
but not in a desirable way; for while his body remained slender and weak as ever, his mind
became daily more stupid and unintelligent.

