"History now shows us that, neither prior to, nor at the outset of hostilities, were people
able to rely to any great extent on a neutral Belgium, and, should we attach a certain importance
to these historic truths, we shall not, however, on the conclusion of peace, suffer ourselves
to allow of the revival of Belgium as a neutral state and country. An independent or neutral
Belgium, or a Belgium whose status would be fixed by treaties of another kind, will be, as
before the war, under the inauspicious influence of England and France, as well as the prey
of America, who is seeking to utilize Belgian securities. There is only one way to prevent
this, viz.: by the policy of force, and it is force that should achieve the result that the
population, at present still hostile, should become used to German rule and submit to it. Moreover,
it will be necessary, through a peace assuring us the annexation of Belgium, that we should
be able to protect, as we are now compelled to do, the German subjects who have settled in
this country, and the protection we shall be enabled to afford them will be of special service
to us in the struggle about to take place in the world's market. It is only by reigning over
Belgium that we shall be able to utilize (verwerten), with a view to German interests, Belgian
capital in savings and the numerous Belgian joint-stock companies already existing in enemy
countries. We ought to have control over the important enterprises that Belgian capital has
founded in Turkey, the Balkans, and China. . . ."]

[End Footnote 2]

Somewhere I have read a Latin line--the name of whose author has slipped my memory--which seems
to fit the case perfectly: "Quidquid non audet in historia Germania mendax!" [Footnote 3]

[Footnote 3: I have taken the references which follow, as far as possible, from Official Diplomatic
Documents, edited by E. von Mach, The Macmillan Co., New York, 1916. The comments and footnotes
in this volume are untrustworthy, but the texts are presumably correct, and it is polite to
judge the Germans from their own mouths. The book is quoted as Off. Dip. Doc.]

II

THE AUSTRIAN ULTIMATUM TO SERVIA

In the latter part of 1916 the New York Times published an admirable series of articles, signed
"Cosmos," on The Basis of Durable Peace.[Footnote 4] With almost every statement of this learned
and able writer I found myself in thorough accord. But the fourth sentence of the first article
I could not accept.

[Footnote 4: These articles are now published in book form by the Scribners.]

"The question as to who or what power," writes Cosmos, "is chiefly responsible for the last
events that immediately preceded the war has become for the moment one of merely historical
interest."

On the contrary, it seems to me a question of immediate, vital, decisive interest. It certainly
determined the national action of France, Great Britain, and Italy. They did not believe that
Germany and Austria were acting in self-defense. If that had been the case, Italy at least
would have been bound by treaty to come to the aid of her partners in the Triple Alliance,
which was purely a defensive league. But she formally declined to do so, on the ground that
"the war undertaken by Austria, and the consequences which might result, had, in the words
of the German Ambassador himself, a directly aggressive object." (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 431.)
The same ground was taken in the message of the President of the French Republic to the Parliament
on August 4, 1914 (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 444), and in the speech of the British Prime Minister,
August 6, the day on which the Parliament passed the first appropriation for expenses arising
out of the existence of a state of war (British Blue Book).

The conviction that the ruling militaristic party in Germany, abetted by Austria, bears the
moral guilt of thrusting this war upon the world as the method of settling international difficulties
which could have been better settled by arbitration or conference, is a very real thing at
the present moment. It is shared by the Entente Allies and the United States. It is one of
those "imponderables" which, as Bismarck said long ago, must never be left out of account in
estimating national forces. It will hold the Allies and the United States together. It will
help them to win the war for peace under conditions for Germany which may not be "punitive,"
but which certainly must be "reformatory".

Understand, I do not imagine or maintain that the primary or efficient causes of this war are
to be found in any things that happened in 1914 or 1913. They are inherent in false methods
of government, in false systems of so-called national policy, in false dealing with simple
human rights and interests, in false attempts to settle natural problems on an artificial basis.

All nations have a share in them. They go back to Austria's annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
in 1908; to the Congress of Berlin in 1878; to the Franco-Prussian War in 1870; to the Prusso-Austrian
War in 1866; to the conquest of Constantinople by the Turks in 1453. Yes, they go back further
still, if you like, to the time when Cain killed Abel! That was the first assertion of the
doctrine that "might makes right."

But the "occasional cause" of this war, the ground on which it was brought to a head and let
loose by Germany, was the Austrian ultimatum to Servia, presented on July 23, 1914, at 6 P. M.

This remarkable state-paper, so harsh in its tone, so imperious in its demands, that it called
forth the disapproval even of a few bold German critics, was apparently meant to be impossible
of acceptance by Servia, and thus to serve either as the instrument for crushing the little
country which stood in the way of the "Berlin-Baghdad-Bahn," or as a torch to kindle the great
war in Europe. I do not propose to trace its history and consequences in detail. I propose
only to show, by fuller proofs than have hitherto been available, that Germany must share the
responsibility for this flagitious and incendiary document.

On July 25, 1914, the German Ambassador at Petrograd handed an official "note verbale" to the
Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs which stated that "The German Government had no knowledge
of the text of the Austrian note before it was presented, and exercised no influence upon its
contents." (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 173.) Similar communications were presented in France and England.

This barefaced denial that the German Government knew what would be in the Austrian ultimatum,
or had anything to do with the framing of it, was a palpable falsehood. It was discredited
at the time. The antecedent incredibility of the statement has been well set forth by Mr. James
N. Beck, in his vigorous book, The Evidence in the Case.[Footnote 5] New evidence has come
in. I intend here to present briefly and arrange in a new order the facts which prove to a
moral certainty that the German Government knew beforehand what the content and intent of the
Austrian ultimatum would be, and what consequences it would probably entail.

[Footnote 5: The Evidence in the Case. Putnams. New York, 1914, pp. 31-46.]

(1) Austria was the most intimate ally of Germany, admittedly dependent upon her big friend
for backing in all international affairs. The German Ambassador in Vienna, Herr von Tschirsky,
and the Austrian Ambassador in Berlin, Count Szogyeny, were in close consultation with the
Governments to which they were accredited during the weeks that followed the crime of Serajevo,
June 28-July 23. It is absolutely incredible that Austria should not have consulted her big
friend in regard to the momentous step against Servia, altogether impossible that Germany should
not have insisted upon knowing what her smaller friend was doing in a matter of such importance
to them both. You might as well imagine that the board of managers of a subsidiary railway
would block out a new policy without consulting the directors of the main line.

(2) On July 5, 1914, it appears that a secret conference was held at Potsdam at which high
officials of the German and Austrian Governments were present. It is not possible to give their
names with certainty--not yet, perhaps never--because these gentlemen come and go in the dark.
But the fact of the meeting was brought out publicly in the speech of Deputy Haase in the Reichstag,
July 19, 1917, and not contradicted. Whatever may have been the ostensible object of this conference,
it is impossible to believe that the most important affairs in the world for Austria and Germany
at that moment, namely the nature of the ultimatum to Servia and the possible eventuality of
a European war, were not discussed, and perhaps decided.

(3) On July 15, 1914, the Italian Ambassador to Turkey, Signor Garroni, had an interview with
the German Ambassador to Turkey, Baron Wangenheim, who had just come back from a visit to Berlin.
The German diplomat said that he had been present at a conference where it had been decided
that the ultimatum to Servia was to be made of such a nature that it could not be accepted,
and that this would be the provocation of the war which would probably ensue. Shortly afterward
these statements were narrated by Signor Garroni to Mr. Lewis Einstein, attache of the American
Embassy at Constantinople, who carefully noted them in his diary.

(4) On July 22, 1914, the British Ambassador in Berlin sent a despatch to his Government which
indicated for the first time clearly the attitude which the German Government had decided to
take. I therefore quote it in full.

"Last night I met Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, and the forthcoming Austrian demarche
at Belgrade was alluded to by his Excellency in the conversation that ensued. He had therefore
considered it inadvisable that the Austro- Hungarian Government should be approached by the
German Government on the matter.

"Finally, his Excellency observed to me that for a long time past the attitude adopted toward
Servia by Austria had, in his opinion, been one of great forbearance." (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 56.)

This shows that Germany knew what Austria was doing, approved her plan, and had resolved that
there "should be no interference from outside in the discussion"--in other words, Germany would
allow no other nation to prevent Austria from doing what she liked to Servia. Could Germany
have taken this absolutely "committal" position if she had been ignorant of what Austria intended
to do?

(5) On July 23, 1914, the crushing Austrian ultimatum, having been prepared in the dark, was
sent to Servia and delivered in Belgrade at 6 P. M. On the same day, and almost certainly at
an earlier hour, the German Chancellor prepared a circular confidential telegram to the Ambassadors
at Paris, London, and Petrograd, instructing them to tell the Governments to which they were
accredited that "the action as well as the demands of the Austro-Hungarian Government can be
viewed only as justifiable. . . . [If the demands were refused] nothing would remain for it,
but to enforce the same by appeal to military measures, in regard to which the choice of means
must be left to it." (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 60.)

Is it credible that the German Government would have pronounced a judgment so important, so
far-reaching in its foreseen consequences, if it had had no previous knowledge of the "action
and demands" of Austria?

(6) On July 23, 1914, the French Minister at Munich telegraphed his Government as follows:
"The President of the Council said to me to-day that the Austrian ultimatum, the contents of
which were known to him, seemed to him couched in terms which Servia could accept, but that,
nevertheless, the actual situation appeared to him serious." (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 59.)

How did this gentleman in Munich come to know about the ultimatum, while the gentlemen in Berlin
professed ignorance?

(7) On July 25, 1914, the Russian Government was officially informed that: "Germany as the
ally of Austria naturally supports the claims made by the Vienna Cabinet against Servia, which
she considers justified." (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 173.)

This was a very grave declaration, in view of the public announcement which the Russian Government
had made on the same day: "Recent events and the despatch of an ultimatum to Servia by Austria-Hungary
are causing the Russian Government the greatest anxiety. The Government are closely following
the course of the dispute between the two countries, to which Russia cannot remain indifferent."
(Off. Dip. Doc., p. 170.)

Certainly Germany would not have come to the serious decision of giving unqualified support
to the claims of Austria as against the expressed interests of Russia, unless she had long
known and had full time to consider those claims and what they would involve.

(8) On July 30, 1914, the British Ambassador in Vienna telegraphed to his Government: "I have
private information that the German Ambassador knew the text of the Austrian ultimatum to Servia
before it was despatched, and telegraphed it to the German Emperor. I know from the German
Ambassador himself that he indorses every line of it." (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 330.)

(9) Count Bernstorff, German Ambassador at Washington, published an article in The Independent,
New York, September 7, 1914. In this article he answered, officially, several questions. The
first question was: Did Germany approve in advance the Austrian ultimatum to Servia? The answer
was: "Yes. Germany's reasons for doing so are the following, &c."

(10) The German Government has itself acknowledged that it was consulted by Austria in regard
to the attitude to be taken toward Servia, and the possibility of ensuing war if Russia intervened
to protect the life of her little sister state. Germany accepted the responsibility and pledged
support. "With all our heart we were able to agree with our ally's estimate of the situation,
and assure him that any action considered necessary to end the movement directed against the
conservation of the monarchy would meet with our approval." (German Official White Book, p.
4; Off. Dip. Doc., p. 551.)

This is a carte blanche of a kind which no great government could possibly give to another
without a definite understanding of what it involved.

Here the summary of the evidence that Austria was not playing "a lone hand" ends--at least
until further confidential documents and information about secret meetings are dug up.

Meantime the Imperial German Government maintains its plea of "not guilty." It still denies
all previous knowledge of, and all part in, the nefarious Austrian ultimatum to Servia which
precipitated the world war.

The denial is both impudent and mendacious.

                  "Credat Judaeus Apella!"

III

THE RUSSIAN MOBILIZATION

It has been loudly asserted and persistently maintained by the Potsdam gang that the cause
of this abominable war was the mobilization of Russia in preparation to maintain the sovereignty
of her little sister state Servia if necessary. "Germany," it is said, "earnestly desired,
from the purest of motives, to 'localize the conflict'"--which means in plain words to let
Austria deal with Servia as she liked, without interference--rather a one-sided proposition,
considering the relative size of the two parties in the benevolently urged single combat. "But
Russia rashly interfered with this beautiful design by declaring that she could not remain
indifferent to the fate of a small nation of kindred blood, and by calling up troops to prevent
any wiping out of Servia by Austria, to whom Germany had already given carte blanche and promised
full support. This was a wicked threat against the life and liberty of Germany. This was an
action which rendered the great war inevitable." So say the German authorities.

The subtitle of the official German White Book reads: "How Russia and Her Ruler Betrayed Germany's
Confidence and Thereby Made the European War." [Footnote 6]

[Footnote 6: I quote from a copy of the original pamphlet, given to me with the compliments
of Herr von Muller, German Minister at The Hague. Professor von Mach in his Off. Dip. Doc.
does not reproduce this title-page.]

This is the Potsdam contention in regard to the cause of the war. The documents indicate that
it is a false contention, based upon suppressions of the truth. This is what I intend to show.

I hold no brief for the late Imperial Russian Government. Doubtless it was shady in its morals
and tricky in its ways.

The telegrams recently discovered by an excellent American journalist, Mr. Herman Bernstein,
and published in the "New York Herald," show that the late Czar Nicolas and the still Kaiser
Wilhelm were plotting together, a very few years ago, to make a secret "combine" which should
control the world. When that plan failed, no doubt the vast power and resources of Russia,
under an absolute imperial Government, were regarded by the equally autocratic Government of
Germany with jealousy and distrust, not to say fear. No doubt Russia was an actual and formidable
obstacle to the Pan-German purpose of getting Servia out of the path of the "Berlin-Baghdad-Bahn".

Grant all this. Pass over, also, the interminable and inextricable dispute about the precise
meaning and application of the terms "mobilization," "partial mobilization," "complete mobilization,"
"precautionary measures," "Kriegsgefahr," an so on. That is an unfathomable morass wherein
many deceptions hide. In that controversy each opponent always charges the other with lying,
and a wise neutral doubts both. It seems to be true--mark you, I only say it seems--that the
first great European Power to order partial mobilization was Austria, July 26, 1914. (Off.
Dip. Doc., p. 197.) On July 28 the order for complete mobilization was signed, war was declared
against Servia (pp. 272, 273), and on July 29 Belgrade was bombarded (p. 354).

On July 29 Russia ordered partial mobilization in the districts of Odessa, Kief, Moscow, and
Kasan, and declared that she had no aggressive intention against Germany. (Off. Dip. Doc.,
p. 294.) The Russian preparations obviously had relation only to Austria's war on Servia which
was already under way.

On July 30 Germany had effected her "covering dispositions" of troops along the French border,
from Luxembourg to the Vosges, part of which by chance I saw in June (see p. 36 ff.), and on
the same day the Berlin semi-official press announced that a complete mobilization had been
ordered. (Off. Dip. Doc., pp. 324, 342.) This announcement was contradicted and withdrawn later
on the same day by government orders.

On July 31, at 1 a.m., the Austrian order of complete mobilization, which was signed on the
28th, was issued. (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 356.) Later in the same day the Russian Government ordered
complete mobilization and the German Government proclaimed a state of Kriegsgefahr, "wardanger."
(Off. Dip. Doc., pp. 356-357.) At seven o'clock in the evening of the same day Germany sent
an ultimatum to France, and at midnight an ultimatum to Russia.

On August 1 she declared war on Russia, and on August 3 she declared war on France, having
previously invaded French territory and sent her army through neutral Luxembourg.

Now in all this the German Government tries to make it appear that it was simply acting on
the defensive, taking necessary steps to guard against the peril threatened by the military
measures of Russia.

The falsity of this pretense is easily shown from two facts: First, the Russian Government
was all the time pleading for a peaceful settlement of the Austro-Servian dispute, by arbitration,
or by a four-power conference. Second, definite offers were made to halt the Russian military
measures at once on conditions most favorable to Austria, if Austria and Germany would agree
to an examination by the Great Powers of Austria's just claims on Servia.

On the first point, I do not propose to retell the long story of the efforts supported by France,
England, Italy, and Russia herself, to get Germany to consent to some plan, any plan, which
might avert war by an appeal to reason and justice. To these efforts Germany answered in effect
that she could not "coerce" her ally Austria.

But one document in this line seems to me particularly interesting--even
pathetic. It is a telegram sent by the late Czar Nicolas to his Imperial
Cousin, Kaiser Wilhelm. I trust in your wisdom and friendship."
                                                  "NICOLAS."

This telegram is not contained in the "German White Book." But Professor von Mach gives it
in his "Official Diplomatic Documents" (p. 596).

I have been unable to find in any book, pamphlet, or collection of papers a trace of the Kaiser's
answer. Probably he did not send one.

On the second point I propose to quote only the three definite proposals which were before
the German Government on July 31, 1914.

Sir Edward Grey, the British Secretary for Foreign Affairs, had been trying with the cordial
help of the Russian Foreign Minister, Sazonof, and the President of the Council of France,
M. Viviani, to formulate a plan of averting general hostilities which would meet the approval
of Germany. (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 307.) This proposal was telegraphed to Berlin on the same day,
and from there to Vienna. So far as I know no answer to it has ever been received, though King
George V warmly supported the proposal in a personal telegram (July 30) to Prince Henry of
Prussia, and begged him to urge it upon the Kaiser. (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 341.)

The German Foreign Minister von Jagow, without waiting to consult Vienna, replied "that he
considered it impossible for Austria to accept the proposal." (Ibid., p. 342.) Austria said
nothing at all!

(3) On July 31 practically the same proposal, modified on the suggestion of Sir E. Grey and
M. Viviani, was renewed by Russia. (Off. Dip. Doc., p. 370.)

No answer from Austria, who had ordered a general mobilization at one o'clock in the morning
of that day!

No answer from Germany, except the prompt proclamation of Kriegsgefahr, and the declaration
of war on Russia on August 1!

Thus three successive opportunities of putting a stop to further military preparations of Russia
on the simple condition that Austria would go no further, but be content with what she already
had occupied as a guarantee for reparation from Servia--three golden occasions of preserving
the peace of Europe--were brushed aside by Germany practically without consideration.

Yet the marvellous people at Potsdam go on saying that it was the Russian military preparation
that brought this war down on the world!--that Germany always wanted peace, and worked for it!

Why then did she not accept the proffered chance of staying the progress of Russian preparations
when it lay within her power to do so by lifting a finger?

Because she did not wish the chance. Because she wished Austria to go on with the subjugation
of Servia. Because she wished Russia to be forced to go on with her measures to intervene for
the rescue of Servia from extinction. Because she wished herself to go on with her design of
putting her own incomparable military machine at work to force her will on Europe. Because
she wished to have a false excuse to cover her own guilt in making the war by saying: "Russia
did it."

The Potsdam gang forgot one thing. Most liars forget something.

They forgot that by refusing the opportunity for peaceful settlement which would have removed
their excuse for making war, they would furnish the proof that their excuse was false.

Chapter V

A DIALOGUE ON PEACE BETWEEN A HOUSEHOLDER AND A BURGLAR

The house was badly wrecked by the struggle which had raged through it. The walls were marred,
the windows and mirrors shattered, the pictures ruined, the furniture smashed into kindling-wood.

Worst of all, the faithful servants and some of the children were lying in dark corners, dead
or grievously wounded.

The Burglar who had wrought the damage sat in the middle of the dining- room floor, with his
swag around him. It was neatly arranged in bags, for in spite of his madness he was a most
methodical man. One bag was labelled silverware; another,  jewels; another, cash; and another,
souvenirs. There was blood on his hands and a fatuous smile on his face.

"Surely I am a mighty man," he said to himself, "and I have proved it! But I am very tired,
as well as kind-hearted, and I feel that it is now time to begin a Conversation on Peace."

The Householder, who was also something of a Pacifist on appropriate occasions, but never a
blind one, stood near. Through the brief lull in the rampage he overheard the mutterings of
the Burglar.

"'Were you speaking to me?" he asked. "As a matter of fact," answered the Burglar, "I was talking
to myself. But it is the same thing. Are we not brothers? Do we not both love Peace? Come sit
beside me, and let us talk about it."

"What do you mean by Peace," said the Householder, looking grimly around him; "do you mean
all this?"

"No, no," said the Burglar; "that is--er--not exactly! 'All this' is most regrettable. I weep
over it. If I could have had my way unopposed it would never have happened. But until you sit
down close beside me I really cannot tell you in particular what I mean by that blessed word
Peace. In general, I mean something like the status quo ante bel-"

"In this case," interrupted the Householder, "you should say the status quo ante furtum--not
bellum [the state of things before the burglary, not before the war], You are a mighty robber--not
a common thief, but a most uncommon one. Do you mean to restore the plunder you have grabbed?"

"Yes, certainly," replied the Burglar, in a magnanimous tone; "that is to say, I mean you shall
have a part of it, freely and willingly. I could keep it all, you know, but I am too noble
to do that. You shall take the silverware and the souvenirs, I will take the jewels and the
cash. Isn't that a fair division? Peace must always stand on a basis of equality between the
two parties. Shake hands on it."

The Householder put his hand behind his back.

"You insult me," said he. "If I were your equal I should die of shame. Waive the comparison.
What about the damage you have done here? Who shall repair it?"

"All the world," cried the Burglar eagerly; "everybody will help--especially your big neighbor
across the lake. He is a fool with plenty of money. You cannot expect me to contribute. I am
poor, but as honest as my profession will permit. This damage in your house is not wilful injury.
It is merely one of the necessary accompaniments of my practice of burglary. You ought not
to feel sore about it. Why do you call attention to it, instead of talking politely and earnestly
about the blessings of Peace?"

"I am talking to you as politely as I can," said the Householder, moistening his dry lips,
"but while I am doing it, I feel as if I were smeared with mud. Tell me, what have you to say
about my children and my servants whom you have tortured and murdered?"

"Ah, that," answered the Burglar, shrugging his shoulders and spreading out his hands, palms
upward, so that he looked like a gigantic toad, "--that indeed is so very, very sad! My heart
mourns over it. But how could it be avoided? Those foolish people would not lie down, would
not be still. Their conduct was directly contrary to my system; see section 417, chapter 93,
in my 'Great Field-Book of Burglary,' under the title 'Schrecklichkeit.' Perhaps in the excitement
of the moment I went a little beyond those scientific regulations. The babies need not have
been killed--only terrified. But that was a mere error of judgment which you will readily forgive
and forget for the sake of the holy cause of Peace. Will you not?"

The Householder turned quickly and spat into the fireplace.

"Blasphemer," he cried, "my gorge rises at you! Can there be any forgiveness until you repent?
Can there be any Peace in the world if you go loose in it, ready to break and enter and kill
when it pleases you? Will you lay down your weapons and come before the Judge?"

The Burglar rose slowly to his feet, twisting up his mustache with bloody brass-knuckled hands.

"You are a colossal ass," he growled. "You forget how strong I am, how much I can still hurt
you. I have offered you a chance to get Peace. Don't you want it?"

"Not as a present from you," said the Householder slowly. "It would poison me. I would rather
die a decent man's death."

He went a step nearer to the Burglar, who quickly backed away.

"Come," the Householder continued, "let us bandy compliments no longer. You are where you have
no right to be. You can talk when I get you before the Judge. I want Peace no more than I want
Justice. While there is a God in heaven and honest freemen still live on earth I will fight
for both."

He took a fresh grip on his club, and the Burglar backed again, ready to spring.

Through the dead silence of the room there came a loud knocking at the door. Could it be the
big neighbor from across the lake?

Chapter VI

STAND FAST, YE FREE!

I

From the outset of this war two things have been clear to me.

First, if the war continued it was absolutely inevitable that the United States would be either
drawn into it by the impulse of democratic sympathies or forced into it by the instinct of
self-preservation.

Second, the most adequate person in the world to decide when and how the United States should
accept the great responsibility of fighting beside France and Great Britain for peace and for
the American ideal of freedom was President Wilson.

His sagacity, his patience, his knowledge of the varied elements that are blended in our nationality,
his sincere devotion to pacific conceptions of progress, his unwavering loyalty to the cause
of liberty secured by law, national and international, made him the one man of all others to
whom this great decision could most safely be confided.

The people of the United States believed this in the election of 1916. They trusted him sincerely
then because "he kept us out of the war" until the inevitable hour. No less sincerely do they
trust him now when he declares that the hour has come when we must "dedicate our lives and
our fortunes, everything that we are and everything that we have" (President's Message to Congress,
April 2, 1917), to defend ourselves and the world from the Imperial German Government, which
is waging "a warfare against mankind."

In the quiet, but never idle, American Legation at The Hague there was an excellent opportunity
to observe and study the incredible blunders by which Germany led us, and the unspeakable insults
and injuries by which she compelled us, to enter the war.

Our adherence to the Monroe Doctrine was, at first, an obstacle to that entrance. Believing
that European governments ought not to interfere in domestic affairs on the American continents,
we admitted the converse of that proposition, and held that America should not meddle with
European controversies or conflicts. But we soon came to a realizing sense of the ominous fact
that Germany was the one nation of Europe which openly despised and flouted the Monroe Doctrine
as an outworn superstition. Her learned professors (followed by a few servile American imitators)
had poured ridicule and scorn upon it in unreadable books. Her actions in the West Indies and
South America showed her contempt for it as a "bit of American bluff." Gradually it dawned
upon us that if France were crushed and England crippled our dear old Monroe Doctrine would
stand a poor chance against a victorious and supercilious Imperial German Government. As I
wrote to Washington in August, 1914, their idea was to "lunch in Paris, dine in London, and
spend the night somewhere in America."

Another real barrier to our taking any part in the war was our sincere, profound, traditional
love of peace. This does not mean, of course, that America is a country of pacifists. Our history
proves the contrary. Our conscientious objections to certain shameful things, like injustice,
and dishonor, and tyranny, and systematic cruelty, are stronger than our conscientious objection
to fighting. But our national policy is averse to war, and our national institutions are not
favorable to its sudden declaration or swift prosecution.

In effect, the United States is a pacific nation of fighting men.

What was it, then, that forced such a nation into a conflict of arms?

It was the growing sense that the very existence of this war was a crime against humanity,
that it need not and ought not to have been begun, and that the only way to put a stop to it
was to join the Allies, who had tried to prevent its beginning, and who are still trying to
bring it to the only end that will be a finality.

It was also the conviction that the Monroe Doctrine, so far from being an obstacle, was an
incentive to our entrance. The real basis of that doctrine is the right of free peoples, however
small and weak, to maintain by common consent their own forms of government. This Germany and
Austria denied. The issue at stake was no longer merely European. It was worldwide.

The Monroe Doctrine could not be saved in one continent if its foundation was destroyed in
another. The only way to save it was to broaden it.

The United States, having grown to be a World Power, must either uphold everywhere the principles
by which it had been begotten and made great or sink into the state of an obese, helpless parasite.
Its sister republics would share its fate.

But more than this: it was the flagrant and contemptuous disregard of all the principles of
international law and common humanity by the Imperial German Government that alarmed and incensed
us. The list of crimes and atrocities ordered in this war by the mysterious and awful power
that rules the German people--which I prefer to call, for the sake of brevity and impersonality,
the Potsdam gang--is too long to be repeated here. The levying of unlawful tribute from captured
cities and villages; the use of old men, women, and children as a screen for advancing troops;
the extortion of military information from civilians by cruel and barbarous methods; the burning
and destruction of entire towns as a punishment for the actual or suspected hostile deeds of
individuals, and the brutal avowal that in this punishment it was necessary that "the innocent
shall suffer with the guilty" (see the letter of General von Nieber to the burgomaster of Wavre,
August 27, and the proclamation of Governor-General von der Goltz, September 2, 1914); the
introduction of the use of asphyxiating gas as a weapon of war (at Ypres, April 22, 1915);
the poisoning of wells; the reckless and needless destruction of priceless monuments of art
like the Cathedral of Reims; the deliberate and treacherous violation of the Red Cross, which
is the sign of mercy and compassion for all Christendom; the bombardment of hospitals and the
cold-blooded slaughter of nurses and wounded men; the sinking of hospital ships with their
helpless and suffering company--all these, and many other infamies committed by order of the
Potsdam gang made the heart of America hot and angry against the power which devised and commanded
such brutality. True, they were not, technically speaking, crimes directed against the United
States. They did not injure our material interests. They injured only our souls and the world
in which we have to live. They were vivid illustrations of the inward nature of that German
Kultur whose superiority, the German professors say, "is rooted in the unfathomable depths
of its moral constitution." (Deutsche Reden in Schwerer Zeit, II, p. 23.)

But there were two criminal blunders--or perhaps it would be more accurate to call them two
series of obstinate and stupid offenses against international law--by which the Potsdam gang
directly assailed the sovereignty and neutrality of the United States and forced us to choose
between the surrender of our national integrity and a frank acceptance of the war which Germany
was waging, not only against our principles and interests, but against the things which in
our judgment were essential to the welfare of mankind and to the existence of honorable and
decent relations among the peoples of the world.

The first of these offenses was the cynical and persistent attempt to take advantage of the
good nature and unsuspiciousness of the United States for the establishment of an impudent
system of German espionage; to use our territory as a base of conspiracy and treacherous hostilities
against countries with which we were at peace; and to lose no opportunity of mobilizing the
privileges granted by "these idiotic Yankees" (quotation from the military attache of the Imperial
German Embassy at Washington)--including, of course, the diplomatic privilege--to make America
unconsciously help in playing the game of the Potsdam gang.

The second of these offenses was the illegal, piratical submarine warfare which the Potsdam
gang ordered and waged against the merchant shipping of the world, thereby destroying the lives
and the property of American citizens and violating the most vital principle of our steadfast
contention for the freedom of the sea.

The message of the President to Congress on April 2, 1917, marked these two offenses as the
main causes which made it impossible for the United States to maintain longer an official attitude
of neutrality toward the German Government, which "did what it pleased and told its people
nothing." The President generously declared that the source of these offenses "lay not in any
hostile feeling or purpose of the German people toward us." That was a magnanimous declaration,
and we sincerely hope it may prove true.

But practically the difficulty lies in the fact that at the present hour several millions of
the German people stand in arms, on land that does not belong to them, to maintain the purpose
and continue the practices of the Potsdam gang. It is a pity, but it is true. The only way
to get at the gang which chose and forced this atrocious war is to go through the armed people
who still defend that choice and the atrocities which have emphasized it.

Forgiveness must wait upon repentance. Repentance must be proved by restitution and reparation.
Any other settlement of this world conflict would be a world calamity. For America and for
all the Allies who are fighting for a peace worth having and keeping, the watchword must be:
Stand fast, ye free!

II

