It was rumoured at the time that Sir John Joram and Mr. Brown, having met each other at the
club after the order for Caldigate's release had been given, and discussing the matter with
great interest, united in giving praise to Bagwax. Then Sir John told the story of those broken
hopes, of the man's desire to travel, and of the faith and honesty with which he sacrificed
his own aspirations for the good of the poor lady whose husband had been so cruelly taken away
from her. Then,--as it was said at the time,--an important letter was sent from the Home Office
to the Postmaster-General, giving Mr. Bagwax much praise, and suggesting that a very good thing
would be done to the colony of New South Wales if that ingenious and skilful master of postmarks
could be sent out to Sydney with the view of setting matters straight in the Sydney office
[1]. There was then much correspondence with the Colonial Office, which did not at first care
very much about Bagwax; but at last the order was given by the Treasury, and Bagwax went. There
were many tears shed on the occasion at Apricot Villa. Jemima Curlydown thought that she also
should be allowed to see Sydney, and was in favour of an immediate marriage with this object.
But Bagwax felt that the boisterous ocean might be unpropitious to the delights of a honeymoon;
and Mr. Curlydown reminded his daughter of all the furniture which would thus be lost. Bagwax
went as a gay bachelor, and spent six happy months in the bright colony. He did not effect
much, as the delinquent who had served Crinkett in his base purposes had already been detected
and punished before his arrival; but he was treated with extreme courtesy by the Sydney officials,
and was able to bring home with him a treasure in the shape of a newly-discovered manner of
tying mail-bags. So that when the 'Sydney Intelligencer' boasted that the great English professor
who had come to instruct them all had gone home instructed, there was some truth in it. He
was married immediately after his return, and Jemima his wife has the advantage, in her very
pretty drawing-room, of every shilling that he made by the voyage. My readers will be glad
to hear that soon afterwards he was appointed Inspector-General of Post-marks, to the great
satisfaction of all the post-office.

    [Footnote 1: I hope my friends in the Sydney post-office will take
    no offence should this story ever reach their ears. I know how well
    the duties are done in that office, and, between ourselves, I think
    that Mr. Bagwax's journey was quite unnecessary.]

One of the few things which Caldigate did before he took his wife abroad was to 'look after
Dick Shand.' It was manifest to all concerned that Dick could do no good in England. His yellow
trousers and the manners which accompanied them were not generally acceptable in merchants'
offices and suchlike places. He knew nothing about English farming, which, for those who have
not learned the work early, is an expensive amusement rather than a trade by which bread can
be earned. There seemed to be hardly a hope for Dick in England. But he had done some good
among the South Sea Islanders. He knew their ways and could manage them. He was sent out, therefore,
with a small capital to be junior partner on a sugar estate in Queensland. It need hardly be
said that the small capital was lent to him by John Caldigate. There he took steadily to work,
and it is hoped by his friends that he will soon begin to repay the loan.

The uncle, aunt, and cousins at Babington soon renewed their intimacy with John Caldigate,
and became intimate with Hester. The old squire still turned up his nose at them, as he had
done all his life, calling them Boeotians, and reminding his son that Suffolk had always been
a silly county. But the Babingtons, one and all, knew this, and had no objection to be accounted
thick-headed as long as they were acknowledged to be prosperous, happy, and comfortable. It
had always been considered at Babington that young Caldigate was brighter and more clever than
themselves; and yet he had been popular with them as a cousin of whom they ought to be proud.
He was soon restored to his former favour, and after his return from the Continent spent a
fortnight at the Hall, with his wife, very comfortably. Julia, indeed, was not there, nor Mr.
Smirkie. Among all their neighbours and acquaintances Mr. Smirkie was the last to drop the
idea that there must have been something in that story of an Australian marriage. His theory
of the law on the subject was still incorrect. The Queen's pardon, he said, could not do away
with the verdict, and therefore he doubted whether the couple could be regarded as man and
wife. He was very anxious that they should be married again, and with great good-nature offered
to perform the ceremony himself either at Plum-cum-Pippins or even in the drawing-room at Folking.

'Suffolk to the very backbone!' was the remark of the Cambridgeshire squire when he heard of
this very kind offer. But even he at last came round, under his wife's persuasion, when he
found that the paternal mansion was likely to be shut against him unless he yielded.

Hester's second tour with her husband was postponed for some weeks, because it was necessary
that her husband should appear as a witness against Crinkett and Euphemia Smith. They were
tried also at Cambridge, but not before Judge Bramber. The woman never yielded an inch. When
she found how it was going with her, she made fast her money, and with infinite pluck resolved
that she would endure with patience whatever might be in store for her, and wait for better
times. When put into the dock she pleaded not guilty with a voice that was audible only to
the jailer standing beside her, and after that did not open her mouth during the trial. Crinkett
made a great effort to be admitted as an additional witness against his comrade, but, having
failed in that, pleaded guilty at last. He felt that there was no hope for him with such a
weight of evidence against him, and calculated that his punishment might thus be lighter, and
that he would save himself the cost of an expensive defence. In the former hope he was deceived
as the two were condemned to the same term of imprisonment. When the woman heard that she was
to be confined for three years with hard labour her spirit was almost broken. But she made
no outward sign; and as she was led away out of the dock she looked round for Caldigate, to
wither him with the last glance of her reproach. But Caldigate, who had not beheld her misery
without some pang at his heart, had already left the court.

Judge Bramber never opened his mouth upon the matter to a single human being. He was a man
who, in the bosom of his family, did not say much about the daily work of his life, and who
had but few friends sufficiently intimate to be trusted with his judicial feelings. The Secretary
of State was enabled to triumph in the correctness of his decision, but it may be a question
whether Judge Bramber enjoyed the triumph. The matter had gone luckily for the Secretary; but
how would it have been had Crinkett and the woman been acquitted?--how would it have been had
Caldigate broken down in his evidence, and been forced to admit that there had been a marriage
of some kind? No doubt the accusation had been false. No doubt the verdict had been erroneous.
But the man had brought it upon himself by his own egregious folly, and would have had no just
cause for complaint had he been kept in prison till the second case had been tried. It was
thus that Judge Bramber regarded the matter;--but he said not a word about it to any one.

