When he got home, his mother and sisters hung about him as they always had done, and protected
him in some measure from the cold serenity of the vicar. To his father he said little on the
subject, and his father said as little to him. They talked, indeed, by the hour as to the future;
and Arthur, in spite of his having resolved not to do so, told the whole story of his debts,
and of his arrangement for their payment.

"Perhaps I could do something in the spring," said Mr. Wilkinson.

"Indeed, father, you shall do nothing," said the son. "I had enough, and should have lived
on it; as I did not, I must live the closer now." And so that matter was settled.

In a very few days Arthur found himself going into society with quite a gay heart. His sisters
laughed at him because he would not dance; but he had now made up his mind for the church,
and it would, he thought, be well for him to begin to look to those amusements which would
be befitting his future sacerdotal life. He practised singing, therefore, fasted on Fridays,
and learnt to make chessmen with a lathe.

But though his sisters laughed at him, Adela Gauntlet, the daughter of the neighbouring vicar
at West Putford, did not laugh. She so far approved that by degrees she almost gave over dancing
herself. Waltzes and polkas she utterly abandoned; and though she did occasionally stand up
for a quadrille, she did it in a very lack-a-daisical way, as though she would have refused
that also had she dared to make herself so peculiar. And thus on the whole Arthur Wilkinson
enjoyed himself that winter, in spite of his blighted prospects, almost as well as he had on
any previous winter that he remembered.

Now and again, as he walked along the little river bank that ran with so many turnings from
Hurst Staple down to West Putford, he would think of his past hopes, and lament that he could
talk of them to no one. His father was very good to him; but he was too cold for sympathy.
His mother was all affection, and kindly suggested that, perhaps, what had happened was for
the best: she kindly suggested this more than once, but her imagination carried her no further.
Had she not four daughters, hitherto without husbands, and also, alas! without portions? Was
it not enough for her to sympathize with them? As for his sisters--his sisters were well enough--excellent
girls; but they were so gay, so light-hearted, so full of fun and laughter, that he could not
talk to them of his sorrows. They were never pensive, nor given to that sober sadness which
is prone to sympathy. If, indeed, Adela Gauntlet had been his sister--! And so he walked along
the river to West Putford.

He had now fully made up his mind to go into the church. While yet thinking of high academical
honours, and the brighter paths of ambition, he also had dreamed of the bar. All young men
I believe do, who have high abilities, a taste for labour, and scanty fortune. Senior wranglers
and double-firsts, when not possessed of means for political life, usually find their way to
the bar. It is on the bench of judges, not on the bench of bishops, that we must look for them
in after life. Arthur, therefore, had thought of the joys of a Chancery wig, and had looked
forward eagerly to fourteen hours' daily labour in the purlieus of Lincoln's Inn. But when,
like many another, he found himself disappointed in his earliest hopes, he consoled himself
by thinking that after all the church was the safer haven. And when he walked down to West
Putford there was one there who told him that it was so.

But we cannot follow him too closely in these early days. He did go into the church. He did
take pupils at Oxford, and went abroad with two of them in the long vacation. After the lapse
of the year, he did get his fellowship; and had by that time, with great exertion, paid half
of that moiety of his debt which he had promised to liquidate. This lapse in his purposed performance
sat heavy on his clerical conscience; but now that he had his fellowship he would do better.

And so somewhat more than a year passed away, during which he was but little at Hurst Staple,
and very little at West Putford. But still he remembered the sweetly-pensive brow that had
suited so well with his own feelings; and ever and again, he heard from one of the girls at
home, that that little fool, Adela Gauntlet, was as bad as a parson herself, and that now she
had gone so far that nothing would induce her to dance at all.

So matters stood when young Wilkinson received at Oxford a letter desiring his instant presence
at home. His father had been stricken by paralysis, and the house was in despair. He rushed
off, of course, and arrived only in time to see his father alive. Within twenty-four hours
after his return he found himself the head of a wailing family, of whom it would be difficult
to say whether their wants or their griefs were most heartrending. Mr. Wilkinson's life had
been insured for six hundred pounds; and that, with one hundred a year which had been settled
on the widow, was now the sole means left for the maintenance of her and her five children;--the
sole means excepting such aid as Arthur might give.

"Let us thank God that I have got the fellowship," said he to his mother. "It is not much,
but it will keep us from starving."

But it was not destined that the Wilkinsons should be reduced even to such poverty as this.
The vicarage of Hurst Staple was in the gift of the noble family of Stapledean. The late vicar
had been first tutor and then chaplain to the marquis, and the vicarage had been conferred
on him by his patron. In late years none of the Wilkinsons had seen anything of the Stapledean
family. The marquis, though not an old man, was reported to be very eccentric, and very cross.
Though he had a beautiful seat in the neighbourhood--not in the parish of Hurst Staple, but
in that of Deans Staple, which adjoins, and which was chiefly his property--he never came to
it, but lived at a much less inviting mansion in the north of Yorkshire. Here he was said to
reside quite alone, having been separated from his wife; whereas, his children had separated
themselves from him. His daughters were married, and his son, Lord Stanmore, might more probably
be found under any roof in the country than that of his father.

The living had now to be given away by the marquis, and the Wilkinson family, who of late years
had had no communication with him, did not even think of thinking of it. But a fortnight after
the funeral, Arthur received a letter with the postmark of Bowes on it, which, on being opened,
was found to be from Lord Stapledean, and which very curtly requested his attendance at Bowes
Lodge. Now Bowes Lodge was some three hundred miles from Hurst Staple, and a journey thither
at the present moment would be both expensive and troublesome. But marquises are usually obeyed;
especially when they have livings to give away, and when their orders are given to young clergymen.
So Arthur Wilkinson went off to the north of England. It was the middle of March, and the east
wind was blowing bitterly. But at twenty-four the east wind does not penetrate deep, the trachea
is all but invulnerable, and the left shoulder knows no twinges.

Arthur arrived at the cold, cheerless village of Bowes with a red nose, but with eager hopes.
He found a little inn there, but he hardly knew whether to leave his bag or no. Lord Stapledean
had said nothing of entertaining him at the Lodge--had only begged him, if it were not too
much trouble, to do him the honour of calling on him. He, living on the northern borders of
Westmoreland, had asked a man in Hampshire to call on him, as though their houses were in adjacent
streets; but he had said nothing about a dinner, a bed, or given any of those comfortable hints
which seem to betoken hospitality.

"It will do no harm if I put my bag into the gig," said Arthur; and so, having wisely provided
for contingencies, he started for Bowes Lodge.

Wisely, as regarded probabilities, but quite uselessly as regarded the event! Hardy as he was,
that drive in the gig from Bowes did affect him unpleasantly. That Appleby road has few sheltered
spots, and when about three miles from Bowes he turned off to the right, the country did not
improve. Bowes Lodge he found to be six miles from the village, and when he drove in at the
gate he was colder than he had been since he left Hurst Staple.

There was very little that was attractive about the house or grounds. They were dark and sombre,
and dull and dingy. The trees were all stunted, and the house, of which half the windows were
closed, was green with the effects of damp. It was large enough for the residence of a nobleman
of moderate pretensions; but it had about it none of that spruce, clean, well-cared-for appearance
which is common to the country-houses of the wealthy in England.

When he descended from the gig he thought that he might as well leave his bag there. The sombre-looking
servant in black clothes who opened the door made no inquiry on the subject; and, therefore,
he merely told his Jehu to drive into the yard and wait for further orders.

His lordship was at home, said the sombre, dingy servant, and in half a minute Arthur found
himself in the marquis's study and in the marquis's presence, with his nose all red and moist,
his feet in an agony of cold, his fingers benumbed, and his teeth chattering. He was barely
allowed time to take off his greatcoat, and, as he did so, he felt almost disinclined to part
with so good a friend.

"How do you do, Mr. Wilkinson?" said the marquis, rising from his chair behind the study table,
and putting out the ends of his fingers so as to touch the young clergyman's hand. "Pray take
a seat." And Arthur seated himself--as, indeed, he had no alternative--on a straight-backed
old horsehair-bottomed chair which stood immediately under a tall black book-case. He was miles
asunder from the fire; and had he been nearer to it, it would have availed him but little;
for the grate was one of those which our grandfathers cleverly invented for transmitting all
the heat up the chimney.

The marquis was tall, thin, and gray-haired. He was, in fact, about fifty; but he looked to
be at least fifteen years older. It was evident from his face that he was a discontented, moody,
unhappy man. He was one who had not used the world over well; but who was quite self-assured
that the world had used him shamefully. He was not without good instincts, and had been just
and honest in his dealings--except in those with his wife and children. But he believed in
the justness and honesty of no one else, and regarded all men as his enemies--especially those
of his own flesh and blood. For the last ten years he had shut himself up, and rarely appeared
in the world, unless to make some statement, generally personal to himself, in the House of
Lords, or to proffer, in a plaintive whine to his brother peers, some complaint as to his neighbour
magistrates, to which no one cared to listen, and which in latter years the newspapers had
declined to publish.

Arthur, who had always heard of the marquis as his father's old pupil, was astonished to see
before him a man so aged. His father had been only fifty-five when he died, and had appeared
to be a hale, strong man. The marquis seemed to be worn out with care and years, and to be
one whose death might be yearly expected. His father, however, was gone; but the marquis was
destined to undergo yet many more days of misery.

"I was very sorry to hear of your father's sudden death," said Lord Stapledean, in his cold,
thin voice.

"It was very sudden, my lord," said Arthur, shuddering.

"Ah--yes; he was not a prudent man;--always too fond of strong wine."

"He was always a temperate man," said the son, rather disgusted.

"That is, he never got drunk. I dare say not. As a parish clergyman, it was not likely that
he should. But he was an imprudent man in his manner of living--very."

Arthur remained silent, thinking it better to say nothing further on the subject.

"I suppose he has not left his family well provided for?"

"Not very well, my lord. There is something--and I have a fellowship."

"Something!" said the marquis, with almost a sneer. "How much is this something?" Whereupon
Arthur told his lordship exactly the extent of his mother's means.

"Ah, I thought as much. That is beggary, you know. Your father was a very imprudent man. And
you have a fellowship? I thought you broke down in your degree." Whereupon Arthur again had
to explain the facts of the case.

"Well, well, well. Now, Mr. Wilkinson, you must be aware that your family have not the slightest
claim upon me."

"Your lordship is also aware that we have made none."

"Of course you have not. It would have been very improper on your part, or on your mother's,
had you done so--very. People make claims upon me who have been my enemies through life, who
have injured me to the utmost of their power, who have never ceased striving to make me wretched.
Yes, these very people make claims on me. Here--here is a clergyman asking for this living
because he is a friend of Lord Stanmore--because he went up the Pyramids with him, and encouraged
him in all manner of stupidity. I'd sooner--well, never mind. I shan't trouble myself to answer
this letter." Now, as it happened that Lord Stanmore was a promising young nobleman, already
much thought of in Parliament, and as the clergyman alluded to was known by Arthur to be a
gentleman very highly reputed, he considered it best to hold his tongue.

"No one has a claim on me; I allow no one to have such claims. What I want I pay for, and am
indebted for nothing. But I must put some one into this living."

"Yes; your lordship must of course nominate some one." Wilkinson said so much, as the marquis
had stopped, expecting an answer.

"I can only say this: if the clergymen in Hampshire do their duty as badly as they do here,
the parish would be better off without a parson."

"I think my father did his duty well."

"Perhaps so. He had very little to do; and as it never suited me to reside there, there was
never any one to look after him. However, I make no complaint. Here they are intolerable--intolerable,
self-sufficient, impertinent upstarts, full of crotchets of their own; and the bishop is a
weak, timid fool; as for me, I never go inside a church. I can't; I should be insulted if I
did. It has however gone so far now that I shall take permission to bring the matter before
the House of Lords."

What could Wilkinson say? Nothing. So he sat still and tried to drive the cold out of his toes
by pressing them against the floor.

"Your father certainly ought to have made some better provision," continued Lord Stapledean.
"But he has not done so; and it seems to me, that unless something is arranged, your mother
and her children will starve. Now, you are a clergyman?"

"Yes, I am in orders."

"And can hold a living? You distinctly understand that your mother has no claim on me."

"Surely none has been put forward, Lord Stapledean?"

"I don't say it has; but you may perhaps fancy by what I say that I myself admit that there
is a claim. Mind; I do no such thing. Not in the least."

"I quite understand what you mean."

"It is well that you should. Under these circumstances, if I had the power, I would put in
a curate, and pay over the extra proceeds of the living for your mother's maintenance. But
I have no such power."

Arthur could not but think that it was very well his lordship had no such power. If patrons
in general were so privileged there would be, he thought, but little chance for clergymen.

"As the law stands I cannot do that. But as you are luckily in orders, I can put you in--on
this understanding, that you shall regard the income as belonging rather to your mother and
to your sisters than to yourself."

"If your lordship shall see fit to present me to the living, my mother and sisters will of
course want nothing that I can give them."

"Ah--h--h--h, my young friend! but that will not be sufficient for me. I must have a pledge
from you--your word as a gentleman and a clergyman, that you take the living on an understanding
that the income is to go to your father's widow. Why should I give you five hundred pounds
a year? Eh? Tell me that. Why should I nominate a young man like you to such a living? you,
whom I never saw in my life? Tell me that."

Arthur Wilkinson was a man sufficiently meek in spirit, as ordinary meekness goes--the ordinary
meekness, that is, of a young clergyman of the Church of England--but he was not quite inclined
to put up with this.

"I am obliged, my lord, to say again that I have not asked for so great a favour from you.
Indeed, till I received your letter desiring me to come here, I had no other thought of the
living than that of vacating the house whenever your nominee should present himself."

"That's all very well," said Lord Stapledean; "but you must be a very unnatural son if on that
account you refuse to be the means of providing for your unfortunate mother and sisters."

"I refuse! why, my lord, I regard it as much my duty to keep my mother and sisters from want
as my father did. Whether I am to have this living or no, we shall live together; and whatever
I have will be theirs."

"That's all very well, Mr. Wilkinson; but the question I ask you is this: if I make you vicar
of Hurst Staple, will you, after deducting a fair stipend for yourself as curate--say one hundred
and fifty pounds a year if you will--will you make over the rest of the income to your mother
as long as she lives?"

This was a question to which Wilkinson found it very difficult to give a direct answer. He
hardly knew whether he would not be guilty of simony in making such a promise, and he felt
that at any rate the arrangement would be an improper one.

"If you knew," said he, at last, "the terms on which my mother and I live together, you would
perceive that such a promise is not needed."

"I shall not the less think it necessary to exact it. I am putting great trust in you as it
is, very great trust; more so perhaps than I am justified in doing." His lordship here alluded
merely to the disposition of the vicarial tithes, and not at all to the care of souls which
he was going to put into the young man's hands.

Arthur Wilkinson again sat silent for awhile.

"One would think," said his lordship, "that you would be glad to have the means of securing
your mother from beggary. I imagined that you would have been in some measure gratified by
my--my--my good intentions towards your family."

"So I am, my lord; so I am. But I doubt whether I should be justified in giving such a pledge."

"Justified! you will make me almost doubt, Mr. Wilkinson, whether I shall be justified in putting
the living into your hands; but, at any rate, I must have an answer."

"What time can you allow me to consider my answer?"

"What time! It never struck me that you could require time. Well; you can let me have your
decision to-morrow morning. Send it me in writing, so that I may have it before ten. The post
goes out at twelve. If I do not hear from you before ten, I shall conclude that you have refused
my offer." And so speaking the marquis got up from his chair.

Arthur also got up, and promised that he would send a letter over from Bowes the first thing
on the following morning.

"And tell the messenger to wait for an answer," said his lordship; "and pray express yourself
definitely, so that there may be no doubt." And then, muttering something as to his hope that
the inn was comfortable, and saying that the state of his health prohibited him from entertaining
visitors, the marquis again put out his fingers, and Arthur soon found himself in the gig on
his journey to Bowes.

He intended returning to town on the following day by the twelve-o'clock mail, of which Lord
Stapledean had spoken. But before that he had a difficult task to perform. He had no friend
to consult, no one of whom he could ask advice, nothing to rely on but his own head and his
own heart. That suggestion as to simony perplexed him. Had he the right, or could he have it,
to appropriate the income of the living according to terms laid down by the lay impropriator?
At one time he thought of calling on the old clergyman of the parish and asking him; but then
he remembered what the marquis had said of the neighbouring parsons, and felt that he could
not well consult one of them on any matter in which his lordship was concerned.

In the evening he considered the matter long and painfully, sitting over a cup of some exquisitely
detestable concoction called tea by the Bowesian landlady. "If he had only left me to myself,"
thought Arthur, "I should do at least as much as that for them. It is for them that I want
it; as for myself, I should be more comfortable at Oxford." And then he thought of West Putford,
and Adela Gauntlet. This arrangement of Lord Stapledean's would entirely prevent the possibility
of his marrying; but then, the burden of his mother and sisters would prevent that equally
under any circumstances.

It would be a great thing for his mother to be left in her old house, among her old friends,
in possession of her old income. As regarded money, they would all be sufficiently well provided
for. For himself, his fellowship and his prescribed stipend would be more than enough. But
there was something in the proposition that was very distasteful to him. He did not begrudge
the money to his mother; but he did begrudge her the right of having it from any one but himself.

But yet the matter was of such vital moment. Where else was he to look for a living? From his
college in the course of years he might get one; but he could get none that would be equal
in value to this of Hurst Staple, and to his fellowship combined. If he should refuse it, all
those whom he loved would in truth suffer great privation; and that privation would not be
rendered more endurable by the knowledge that such an offer had been refused.

Thus turning the matter over painfully in his mind, he resolved at last to accept the offer
of the marquis. The payment after all was to be made to his own mother. The funds of the living
were not to be alienated--were not, in truth, to be appropriated otherwise than they would
have been had no such conditions as these been insisted on. And how would he be able to endure
his mother's poverty if he should throw away on her behalf so comfortable a provision? He determined,
therefore, to accept the goods the gods had provided him, clogged though they were with alloy,
like so many other gifts of fortune; and accordingly he wrote a letter to Lord Stapledean,
in which he stated "that he would accept the living, subject to the stipulations named--namely,
the payment to his mother, during her life, of three hundred and fifty pounds per annum out
of the tithes." To this he received an answer from the marquis, very short and very cold, but
nevertheless satisfactory.

The presentation to the living was, in fact, made in his favour, and he returned home to his
family laden with good news. The dear old vicarage would still be their own; the trees which
they had planted, the flower-beds which they had shaped, the hives which they had put up, would
not go into the hands of strangers. And more than this, want no longer stared them in the face.
Arthur was welcomed back with a thousand fond caresses, as one is welcomed who bringeth glad
tidings. But yet his heart was sad. What should he now say to Adela Gauntlet?

CHAPTER IV.

OUR PRIMA DONNA.

When Arthur first explained to his mother the terms on which the living had been given to him,
she refused to receive the income. No such promise with reference to money matters between
mother and son could be binding. Were they not, moreover, one and the same household? Would
it not be in the end the same if Arthur should keep the money himself? If it were paid to her,
she should only pay it back again; and so on. But the vicar declared that he would adhere strictly
to his promised engagement; and the mother soon fell into the way of thinking the arrangement
not altogether a bad one. She had received intimation through the lord's man of business of
the exact steps which had been taken for the relief of her great pecuniary distress--so the
letter was worded--and it was not long before she regarded the income as fairly her own.

We are so apt to be generous in the hot moments of impulse; but so equally apt to be only coldly
just, even if coldly just, in the long years of our ordinary existence.

And so the family again settled down; the commenced packings were again unpacked; the preliminary
arrangements for living on a very small income were thrown to the winds; the pony that was
to have been sold, and which with that object was being fattened up on boiled barley, was put
on his accustomed rations; the old housekeeper's warning was revoked, as was also that of the
old gardener. It was astonishing how soon the new vicar seemed to fill the old vicar's shoes
in the eyes and minds of the people of Hurst Staple. Had Mr. Wilkinson come up from his grave
at the end of three months, he would hardly have found that he was missed. A very elegant little
tablet had been placed to his memory; and there apparently was an end of him. The widow's cap
did make some change in the appearance of the family circle; but it is astonishing how soon
we get used even to a widow's cap!

There had of course been visits of condolence between West Putford and Hurst Staple, and the
Hurst Staple girls and Adela had been as much, or perhaps more, together than usual. But Arthur's
walks along the river had not been frequent. This, however, was not thought of by any one.
He had had new duties to assume, and old duties to put off. He had been a fortnight up at Oxford;
and when at home, had been calling on all his parishioners. He had been attending to the dilapidations
of the vicarage, and rearranging the books in the book-room. The dingy volumes of thirty years
since had been made to give way to the new and brighter bindings which he had brought from college.

And therefore no one had remarked that he had but once been at West Putford. But he thought
of it himself. He often longed to go thither, and as often feared to do so. When he next went,
it must be to tell Adela, not that he loved her, but that such love was forbidden to him.

The family at West Putford consisted only of the vicar and his daughter. Mrs. Gauntlet had
been long dead, and there had been no other child. A maiden sister of Mr. Gauntlet's occasionally
visited them, and had, indeed, lived there altogether while Adela's education had required
it; but this lady preferred her own lodgings at Littlebath, and Adela, therefore, was in general
the sole mistress of the parsonage.

I beg my reader not to imagine that there had been love-passages between Arthur Wilkinson and
Adela Gauntlet: nothing of the sort had occurred. They had known and loved each other as children
together, and now that they were no longer children, they still knew and loved each other--that
was all. It is true that Arthur, when he had wished to talk of his own disappointments, had
found a better listener at West Putford than any that he could find at Hurst Staple. It is
true that Adela had always been glad to listen to him; that she had had pleasure in cheering
his fainting heart, and telling him that the work of a soldier of Christ was worthier of a
man than the bickerings of a statesman or the quibbles of a lawyer; that she had gravely, yet
withal so sweetly, spoken to him of the comforts of a rural life, and made him almost in love
with his own failure. Such passages there had been between them; but Arthur had never taken
her hand and sworn that it must be his own, nor had Adela ever blushed while half refusing
to give him all he asked.

Why then need he trouble himself about West Putford? Why not let matters rest as they were?
Miss Gauntlet would still be his friend; though seeing that she could never be more, it might
not be well for him to walk so often along that river. As there had been no love-passages,
one would say that nothing else was necessary.

But he could not content himself that this should be so. Adela would think him strange if he
should say nothing to her of his future prospects. True, he had spoken no word of love, but
had he not looked at her as though it was in his mind to speak such? Was it not incumbent on
him to make her understand why he threw from him such golden hopes? And then, as to her, he
did not flatter himself that she loved him--at least, not much; but yet it might be well to
let her know that she was now at liberty to love any other swain. So at last he once more went
his way to West Putford.

Adela Gauntlet was-- No; for once I will venture to have a heroine without describing her.
Let each reader make what he will of her; fancy her of any outward shape and colour that he
please, and endow her with any amount of divine beauty. But for her inner character, let him
take that from me as I go on, if so be that I can succeed in making clear to others that which
is clear enough to my own mind's eye. I have called her a heroine; it is the novelist's customary
name for his prima donna, and so I use it. But many opera companies have more than one prima
donna. There is the donna prima, and if one may so say, the donna primissima. Now Adela Guantlet
is no more than my donna prima. My donna primissima will be another guess sort of lady altogether.

Arthur, as he walked along, communed with himself as to what he was going to say. "At any rate,
she shall know it all; we shall be more comfortable when we meet afterwards. Not that it will
make any difference to her;" and then he sighed deeply, and cut at the river rushes with his
walking-stick.

He found her as usual alone in the drawing-room, and, as usual, she smiled sweetly when she
saw him. Since the day on which he had first gone up to Oxford, she had always called him "Mr.
Wilkinson"--so instructed by Aunt Penelope; but in other respects her manner to him was almost
that of a sister, only that it was softer, and more gracious.

"I declare, I thought we were never to see you again, Mr. Wilkinson." Ah, Adela! whom did the
we mean? But is it possible that any girl should live fairly before the world without some
little insincerities?

"I have been so occupied, Adela. There is so much to do in taking up a parish. Even though
I know all the people so well, there has been so much to do."

"Yes, yes, I am sure of it. But now that you are settled, I do so hope that you will be comfortable.
I saw Mary the other day, and she told me that your mother was quite well again."

"Yes, she is pretty well. We are all very well now, I think."

"I do so love that old lord for giving you the living, though they say he is such a Turk. It
was such a good thing in him to do; so considerate to everybody."

"Yes; it has made my mother and the girls comfortable; that, of course, is what I had first
to think of."

"As for yourself, I have no doubt you would have done better at Oxford. But you could have
got no home for them like their old home; could you?"

"No, of course not," said Arthur, answering almost at random, and thinking how best he might
explain the sacrifice which he had made without taking too much credit to himself.

"And then, if you had remained up there, you would only have become a musty old don. I don't
think you would have been happy, not so happy as in a parish. And when a man is a clergyman"--this
she said in a lower and somewhat a solemn voice--"surely he cannot be so well placed as in
charge of a parish. Don't you think so, Mr. Wilkinson?"

"Certainly. It is the life for which he is intended; for which he should have intended himself."

"And I am sure it is a happy life: look at papa; I do not know any happier man--only that poor
mamma died."

And upon this hint he spake. "Yes, your father I am sure has been a happy man, and he is an
excellent clergyman."

"Is he not? even still so active! And he is so glad now to have you near him."

"I wish I had received my living as he did his; not that it would make any real difference."

"He got his, you know, from the bishop. But do you dislike being Lord Stapledean's nominee?"

"It would be ungrateful to say that; but I certainly do not like Lord Stapledean. However,
I have taken his living, and should not complain."

"I did not know that there was anything disagreeable."

"There is this, Adela. I had rather tell you; and I came over to-day in part to do so: but
you will see that the matter is one that should not be talked about," and he looked down on
the floor, poking about on the carpet pattern with his stick, being unable any longer to meet
the clear gaze of her soft eye.

"Oh, I am sorry if there is anything to distress you."

"Not exactly to distress me, perhaps; but I will tell you. When the marquis offered me the
living, he did it on the stipulation that I should pay over to my mother three hundred and
fifty pounds a year during her life. I doubt whether it was right to accept it on these conditions;
but I did so. The living, therefore, is rather hers than mine."

"Oh, Arthur, how good of you!" In spite of all Aunt Penelope's lessons, old habits would sometimes
get the better of her.

"I don't know; I am afraid that it was not good."

"Why? I can't understand? Surely it must be good to give up your time, your labour, your hopes"--Adela
did not say his heart--"for your mother and sisters' good! Why, how can it be else than good?
I think it good, and shall think so."

"At any rate, Adela, I could not withstand the offer when it was made to me."

"I am sure you could not."

"So I am little more than a curate in the parish as far as the income is concerned; with this
difference, that I can't change my curacy for a living should a chance offer."

Adela had never before known him to be solicitous about money for himself, and now she felt
that she did not understand him. "But you have got your fellowship," said she.

"Yes, I have got my fellowship: oh, as far as that is concerned, I am better off than I could
ever have expected to be. But, nevertheless, one feels--feels crippled by such an arrangement.
It is quite impossible, you know, for instance, that--that--that I should do a great many things."
His courage failed him as he was about to make the fatal announcement.

"What things?" said Adela, with all the boldness of innocence.

It was necessary that he should say it. "Why, for instance," he continued, "it is quite impossible,
though perhaps that does not make much matter; but it is quite impossible--that I should ever
marry." And still looking down upon the ground, he poked sedulously among the patterns with
his stick.

"Oh!" said Adela, with a tremour in her voice, and her eye was no longer able to rest upon
his face.

There was a pause during which neither of them said a word, or saw each other. As far as Adela
was concerned, immediate speech was impossible. She neither cried, nor sighed, nor sobbed,
nor became hysterical. She was simply dumb. She could not answer this little announcement of
her neighbour's. Heretofore, when he had come to her with his sorrows, she had sympathized
with him, and poured balm into his wounds. But she had no balm for him now--and no sympathy.
There they sat, mute; he poking the while at the carpet, while she did not even move a limb.

And then it gradually came home to both of them that this utter silence, this prostration of
all power of self-management, told to each the secret of the other. Each felt that every moment
of prolonged silence committed both of them the deeper. Why should not Adela be able to speak
when thus informed of her neighbour's intended celibacy? Why should he sit like a fool before
her merely because he had told her that on which he had long decided?

But it was clearly Wilkinson's duty to have disembarrassed the lady as soon as possible. It
was almost unmanly in him to be put thus beyond the power of speech or action. But still he
poked the carpet and said nothing. It was Adela who first broke that tell-tale silence; and
grievous was the effort which it cost her to do so.

"But you will have your mother and sisters with you, Mr. Wilkinson; and so, perhaps, you won't
mind that."

"Yes, I shall have them," said he; and then there was another silence, which seemed about to
be equally dangerous and equally difficult. But Adela, who was fully aware of the error which
she had already committed, strove hard to save herself from repeating it.

"You will have a family round you; and if, as you say"--but the ground that she approached
was so hot that she could not walk on it. She could not get further in that direction, and
therefore merely added: "I am sure I hope you will always be happy."

At length Arthur shook himself, positively shook himself, as though that were the only mode
by which he could collect his faculties; and then getting up from his chair, and standing with
his back against the wall, he spoke out as follows:--

"Perhaps, Adela, there was no necessity for me to have mentioned this subject. At least, I
am sure there was no necessity. But you have ever been such a friend to me, have so understood
my feelings when no one else seemed to do so, that I could not but tell you this as I have
told you everything else. I hope I have not annoyed you by doing so."

"Oh, no; not at all."

"It does make me a little sad to think that I shall never be my own master."

"Never, Mr. Wilkinson!" Had Arthur but known it, there was balm, there was sympathy in this
word. Had his intellect been as sharp as his feelings, he would have known it. But it passed
him unperceived, as it had fallen from her unawares: and she said no other word that could
encourage him. If he was cold, she at least would be equally so.

"Certainly not during my mother's life; and you know how good ground we have for hoping that
her life will be long. And then there are my sisters. My duty to them will be the same as to
my mother, even though, as regards them, I may not be tied down as I am with regard to her."

"We cannot have everything here," said Adela, trying to smile. "But I am sure I need not teach
you that."

"No, we cannot have everything." And Arthur thought that, in spite of the clerical austerity
which he was about to assume, he should very much like to have Adela Gauntlet.

"It will make you happy to know that you are making your mother happy, and the dear girls--and--and
I have no doubt you will very soon get used to it. Many clergymen, you know, think that they
ought not to marry."

"Yes; but I never made up my mind to that."

"No, perhaps not; but now perhaps you will think of it more seriously."

"Indeed, I used to have an idea that a parish clergyman should be a married man. There are
so many things which he can do better when he has a woman to assist him who thinks exactly
as he thinks."

"You will have your sisters, you know. Both Mary and Sophia were always active in the parish,
and Jane and Fanny have their school."

"Yes;" and he uttered a gentle sigh as he paused before he answered her. "But it is not quite
the same thing, Adela. I love my sisters dearly; but one always longs to have one heart that
shall be entirely one's own."

And had he come over to tell her this in the same breath with which he informed her that marriage
was a privilege quite beyond his reach? What did he think of her, or of what did he imagine
that she was made? There was cruelty in it, of which Adela became immediately conscious, and
which she could hardly help wishing to resent. He had performed the object of his visit; why
did he not leave her? He had made himself thoroughly understood; why did he not go? His former
many sweet visits had created hopes which were all but certain. He had said nothing of love;
but coming there as he had come, and gazing at her as he had gazed, Adela could not doubt but
that she was loved. That was all now set at rest; but why should he remain there, breaking
her heart with allusions to his own past tenderness?

"You must put up with the world as you find it, Mr. Wilkinson."

"Oh, yes; of course. But when one has had such happy dreams, the waking reality, you know,
does make one sad."

"You are too happy in your friends and your position to be an object of pity. How many clergymen
are there of your age who would look upon your lot as almost beyond their ambition! How many
men are there with mothers and sisters for whom they cannot provide! How many who have made
rash marriages which have led to no happiness! Surely, Mr. Wilkinson, with you there is more
cause for thankfulness than for complaint!" And thus, as it was necessary that she should say
something, she moralized to him--very wisely.

"It is all true," said he; "and perhaps it is for the best. I might probably have been made
more wretched in another way."

"Yes; very likely." Oh, Adela, Adela!

"I begin to know that a man should not be sanguine. I have always hoped for more than I have
had a right to expect, and, therefore, I have always been disappointed. It was so at school,
and at Oxford, and it is so now: it shows how true it is that a man should not look for his
happiness here. Well; good-bye, Adela. I see that you think I am wrong to have any regrets."

"Useless regrets are always foolish: we laugh at children who cry for what is quite out of
their reach."

"Yes; and you laugh at me. I dare say you are right."

"No; do not say that, Mr. Wilkinson. I have never laughed at you. But--" She did not wish to
be actually unkind to him, though he had been so cruel to her.

At last he went. They shook hands with each other in their accustomed manner, but Wilkinson
felt that he missed something from her touch, some warmth from the soft pressure, some scintillation
of sympathy which such last moments of his visits had usually communicated to him. Yes; there
was much to miss.

As he went back along the river his heart was sad within him. He had made up his mind to give
up Adela Gauntlet, but he had not made up his mind to discover that she did not care for him--that
she was indifferent to his happiness, and unable to sympathize with his feelings. The fact
was, that though he had resolved that duty and his circumstances required him to remain single,
nevertheless, he had at the bottom of his heart a sort of wish that Adela should be in love
with him. He had his wish; but he was not sharp enough to discover that he had it. "I never
thought her unfeeling before," said he to himself. "But all the world is alike. Well; as it
is, it does not signify; but it might have been that I should have half broken my heart to
find her so unfeeling.--More cause for thankfulness than complaint! Yes; that is true of us
all. But it was unfriendly, nay unfeminine in her to say so when she must have known how much
I was giving up." And so he walked on complaining; understanding perhaps accurately the wants
of his own heart, but being quite in the dark as to the wants of that other heart.

But his grief, his discontent was mild in comparison with hers. She shook hands with him when
he went, and endeavoured to say her last word of farewell in her usual tone; nay, for a few
minutes after his departure she retained her seat calmly, fearing that he possibly might return;
but then, when the door had closed on him, and she had seen him from her window passing across
the lawn, then her spirits gave way, and bitterly she made her moan.

What was this that he had said to her? He would not marry because he had his mother and sisters
to support. Would not she have helped to support them? Would not she have thrown in her lot
with his for better or for worse, let that lot have been ever so poor? And could it be possible
that he had not known this--had not read her heart as she had read his? Could it be that he
had come there day after day, looking to her for love, and sympathy, and kindness--that sort
of kindness which a man demands from no one but her he loves, and which no one can give him
unless she loves him? Could it be that he had done this and then thought that it all meant
nothing? that the interchange of such feelings had no further signification?

Money! Had she asked about his money in those days when his father still lived, when there
was no question of this living belonging to him? She would have waited for him for years had
years been necessary, even though they should be counted by tens and tens. Nay, she would have
been contented to wait, even though that waiting should never have been rewarded, had he given
her the privilege of regarding herself as his. Money! She would have been contented to live
on potato-parings could he have been contented to live with her on potatoes.

She had over and over again questioned herself as to her love, and reminded herself that as
yet he had said nothing to her to justify it: but as often she had answered herself that with
him she could have no doubt. It was impossible that he should so look into her eyes and so
speak to her if he did not love her. And so she had resolved to risk all her happiness upon
her conviction of his faithfulness. She had so risked it all; and now he came to her, telling
her coldly that he could not afford to marry.

He, to tell her of his happy dreams and his waking reality! he who had not the courage to realize
the bliss of his dreams when that bliss was within his reach! He, to talk of sympathy, of a
woman thinking with him exactly as he thought! he who was so timid of the world that he feared
to love less perchance his supplies of bread and meat should fail him! What could heart wounds
signify to him, or hurt feelings? Had he not his arms sound and his head clear? If, having
them, he would not venture for his love's sake to meet the world and its burdens, he could
hardly have heart enough to know what love really meant.

Flinging herself on her sofa with outstretched arms, thus Adela made her moan; not in these
words, for she spake none: but such were the thoughts which ran through her mind as she bewailed
all that she had risked and all that she had lost.

"What would I not have done for him!" she suddenly exclaimed aloud, as, rising from the sofa,
she stood erect upon the ground, pressing her hand upon her heart. "Fool that I have been--fool,
fool, fool!"

And then, with her hand still close to her side, she walked up and down the room with quick step.

And she had been a fool according to the world's wisdom. Of what use had been Aunt Penelope's
teaching, strictly enacting as it did all the nice proprieties of young-lady life, seeing that
it had not sufficed to guard her heart against the first comer? Unasked she had given it all
away, had poured it out to the last drop of its warm flood; and now she was told that it was
not wanted, that the article was one not exactly in the gentleman's walk of life! She might
well call herself a fool:--but what was she to call him?

"It is quite impossible, you know, that I should ever marry!" Why had he not asked her whether
or no it were possible; if not now, then in ten years' time--if not in ten years, then in twenty?
Had he not been as faithless to her, was he not as much man-sworn, as though a thousand oaths
had passed between them? Oaths between lovers are but Cupid's phrases, made to enable them
to talk of love. They are the playthings of love, as kisses are. When lovers trust each other
they are sweet bonds; but they will never bind those who do not trust. When he had told her
that she, and she only, understood his feelings, that she, and she only, knew his moods, and
when she had answered him by the encouragement of her soft smile, could it be that more was
necessary between them? Ah! yes, Adela, much more! Never know a gentleman's moods, never understand
his feelings till, in the plain language of his mother-tongue, he has asked you to be mistress
of them.

When her father came in before dinner, she was still pacing up and down the room. But she had
not spent the two hours since Arthur had left her in vain sorrow or in vainer anger. She had
felt that it behoved her to resolve how she would act, and what she would do; and in those
two hours she had resolved. A great misfortune, a stunning blow had fallen on her; but the
fault had been with her rather than with him. She would school herself to bear the punishment,
to see him occasionally, and bear with him as she would have done had he never taken those
walks along the river; she would still love his sisters; still go when needs was to the Hurst
Staple parsonage. As for him, she would wish him no evil, rather every good. As for herself,
she would check her rebel heart if she could; but, at any rate, she would learn to check the
rising blood which would otherwise tell her tale.

"Arthur Wilkinson has been here to-day, papa," she was able to say, with composed voice; "they
are quite settled again at the parsonage."

"Ah! he is a lucky fellow," said the old vicar; "he'll be wanting a wife now before the year's
out."

CHAPTER V.

THE CHOICE OF A PROFESSION.

We must now go back to our other hero, or, rather, to another of our heroes. Arthur Wilkinson
is our melancholy love-lorn tenor, George Bertram our eager, excitable barytone, and Mr. Harcourt--Henry
Harcourt--our bass, wide awake to the world's good things, impervious to sentimentality, and
not over-scrupulous--as is always the case with your true deep-mouthed opera bass.

Our present business is with the excitable barytone, whom we left some year and a half ago
in not a very clear state of mind as to the walk in life which would be best suited for his
peculiar legs. Harcourt, who was himself a lawyer, recommended the law. Selfish as was the
general tone of Harcourt's heart, still he had within him a high, if not a generous feeling,
which made him wish to have near him in his coming life a friend of such promise as George
Bertram. Bertram might beat him in his career; nay, probably would do so; but, nevertheless,
Harcourt wished to see him keeping his terms in London. He was convinced that he should gain
more than he should lose by such a friend.

But Bertram's own mind was not so easily made up. His personal possessions in life may be thus
catalogued. He had come of a good family; he had received the best education which England
could give him; he was quick in speech and ready in thought; he had a double-first degree,
and would at once have a fellowship; he had also an uncle who was very rich and occasionally
very disagreeable, and a father who was very poor, and of whom he heard all men say that he
was one of the most agreeable fellows that ever lived. Such being his stock in trade, how was
he to take it to the best market? and what market would be the best?

In thinking over his markets, it must not be supposed that his only object, or his chief object,
was the making of money. That was a rock, rather, of which it behoved him to be very careful.
The money-making part of every profession was, according to his present views, a necessary
incidental evil. To enable a poor man like him to carry on his work some money must be made;
for some sorts of work, perhaps for that very sort which he would most willingly choose, much
money must be made. But the making of it should never be his triumph. It could be but a disagreeable
means to a desirable end. At the age of twenty-two so thought our excitable barytone hero on
that point.

Two ends appeared to him to be desirable. But which of the two was the most desirable--that
to him was the difficult question. To do good to others, and to have his own name in men's
mouths--these were the fitting objects of a man's life. But whether he would attempt the former
in order to achieve the latter; or obtain, if he did obtain, the latter by seeking success
in the former: on this point his character was not sufficiently fixed, nor his principles sufficiently
high to enable him fitly to resolve.

But the necessity of seeing his uncle before he took any actual steps secured him from the
necessity of coming to any absolutely immediate decision. He and Harcourt were together for
three or four days, and he listened not unmoved to his friend's eloquence in favour of public
life in London. Not unmoved, indeed, but always with a spirit of antagonism. When Harcourt
told of forensic triumphs, Bertram spoke of the joy of some rustic soul saved to heaven in
the quiet nook of a distant parish. When his friend promised to him Parliament, and the later
glories of the ermine, he sighed after literary fame, to be enjoyed among the beauties of nature.
But Harcourt understood all this: he did not wish to convince his friend, but only to lead him.

Mr. George Bertram senior was a notable man in the city of London. I am not prepared to say
what was his trade, or even whether he had one properly so called. But there was no doubt about
his being a moneyed man, and one well thought of on 'Change. At the time of which I write,
he was a director of the Bank of England, chairman of a large insurance company, was deep in
water, far gone in gas, and an illustrious potentate in railway interests. I imagine that he
had neither counting-house, shop, nor ware-rooms: but he was not on that account at a loss
whither to direct his steps; and those who knew city ways knew very well where to meet Mr.
George Bertram senior between the hours of eleven and five.

He was ten years older than his brother, Sir Lionel, and at the time of which I write might
be about seventy. He was still unmarried, and in this respect had always been regarded by Sir
Lionel as a fountain from whence his own son might fairly expect such waters as were necessary
for his present maintenance and future well-being. But Mr. George Bertram senior had regarded
the matter in a different light. He had paid no shilling on account of his nephew, or on other
accounts appertaining to his brother, which he had not scored down as so much debt against
Sir Lionel, duly debiting the amount with current interest; and statements of this account
were periodically sent to Sir Lionel by Mr. Bertram's man of business,--and periodically thrown
aside by Sir Lionel, as being of no moment whatsoever.

When Mr. Bertram had paid the bill due by his brother to Mr. Wilkinson, there was outstanding
some family unsettled claim from which the two brothers might, or might not, obtain some small
sums of money. Sir Lionel, when much pressed by the city Croesus, had begged him to look to
this claim, and pay himself from the funds which would be therefrom accruing. The city Croesus
had done so: a trifle of two or three hundred pounds had fallen to Sir Lionel's lot, and had
of course been duly credited to his account. But it went a very little way towards squaring
matters, and the old man of business went on sending his half-yearly statements, which became
anything but "small by degrees."

Mr. Bertram had never absolutely told George of this debt, or complained of his not being repaid
the advances which he had made; but little hints dropped from him, which were sometimes understood
for more than they were worth, and which made the young Oxonian feel that he would rather not
be quite so much in his uncle's hands. The old man gave him to understand that he must not
look on himself as an heir to wealth, or imagine that another lot was his than that ordinary
to mortals--the necessity, namely, of eating his bread in the sweat of his brow.

Old Mr. Bertram ordinarily lived at Hadley, a village about a mile beyond Barnet, just on the
border of what used to be called Enfield Chase. Here he had an establishment very fit for a
quiet old gentleman, but perhaps not quite adequate to his reputed wealth. By my use of the
word reputed, the reader must not be led to think that Mr. Bertram's money-bags were unreal.
They were solid, and true as the coffers of the Bank of England. He was no Colonel Waugh, rich
only by means of his rich impudence. It is not destined that he shall fall brilliantly, bringing
down with him a world of ruins. He will not levant to Spain or elsewhere. His wealth is of
the old-fashioned sort, and will abide at any rate such touch of time as it may encounter in
our pages. But none of the Hadleyites, or, indeed, any other ites--not even, probably, the
Bank-of-Englandites, or the City-of-London-Widows'-Fundites--knew very well what his means
were; and when, therefore, people at Hadley spoke of his modest household, they were apt to
speak of it as being very insufficient for such a millionaire.

Hitherto George had always passed some part of his vacations at Hadley. The amusements there
were not of a very exciting nature; but London was close, and even at Hadley there were pretty
girls with whom he could walk and flirt, and the means of keeping a horse and a couple of pointers,
even if the hunting and shooting were not conveniently to be had.

A few days after the glories of his degree, when his name was still great on the High Street
of Oxford, and had even been touched by true fame in a very flattering manner in the columns
of the "Daily Jupiter," he came home to Hadley. His uncle never encouraged visits from him
in the city, and they met, therefore, for the first time in the old man's drawing-room just
before dinner.

"How are you, George?" said the uncle, putting out his hand to his nephew, and then instantly
turning round and poking the fire. "What sort of a journey have you had from Oxford? Yes, these
railways make it all easy. Which line do you use? Didcot, eh? That's wrong. You'll have a smash
some of these days with one of those Great Western express trains"--Mr. Bertram held shares
in the opposition line by which Oxford may be reached, and never omitted an opportunity of
doing a little business. "I'm ready for dinner; I don't know whether you are. You eat lunch,
I suppose. John, it's two minutes past the half-hour. Why don't we have dinner?"

Not a word was said about the degree--at least, not then. Indeed Mr. Bertram did not think
very much about degrees. He had taken no degree himself, except a high degree in wealth, and
could not understand that he ought to congratulate a young man of twenty-two as to a successful
termination of his school-lessons. He himself at that age had been, if not on 'Change, at any
rate seated on the steps of 'Change. He had been then doing a man's work; beginning to harden
together the nucleus of that snowball of money which he had since rolled onwards till it had
become so huge a lump--destined, probably, to be thawed and to run away into muddy water in
some much shorter space of time. He could not blame his nephew: he could not call him idle,
as he would have delighted to do had occasion permitted; but he would not condescend to congratulate
him on being great in Greek or mighty in abstract mathematics.

"Well, George," said he, pushing him the bottle as soon as the cloth was gone, "I suppose you
have done with Oxford now?"

"Not quite, sir; I have my fellowship to receive."

"Some beggarly two hundred pounds a year, I suppose. Not that I mean to say you should not
be glad to have it," he added, thus correcting the impression which his words might otherwise
have made. "As you have been so long getting it, it will be better to have that than nothing.
But your fellowship won't make it necessary for you to live at Oxford, will it?"

"Oh, no. But then I may perhaps go into the church."

"Oh, the church, eh? Well, it is a respectable profession; only men have to work for nothing
in it."

"I wish they did, sir. If we had the voluntary system--"

"You can have that if you like. I know that the Independent ministers--"

"I should not think of leaving the Church of England on any account."

"You have decided, then, to be a clergyman?"

"Oh, no; not decided. Indeed, I really think that if a man will work, he may do better at the bar."

"Very well, indeed--if he have the peculiar kind of talent necessary."

"But then, I doubt whether a practising barrister can ever really be an honest man."

"What?"

"They have such dirty work to do. They spend their days in making out that black is white;
or, worse still, that white is black."

"Pshaw! Have a little more charity, master George, and do not be so over-righteous. Some of
the greatest men of your country have been lawyers."

"But their being great men won't alter the fact; nor will my being charitable. When two clear-headed
men take money to advocate the different sides of a case, each cannot think that his side is true."

"Fiddlestick! But mind, I do not want you to be a lawyer. You must choose for yourself. If
you don't like that way of earning your bread, there are others."

"A man may be a doctor, to be sure; but I have no taste that way."

"And is that the end of the list?"

"There is literature. But literature, though the grandest occupation in the world for a man's
leisure, is, I take it, a slavish profession."

"Grub Street, eh? Yes, I should think so. You never heard of commerce, I suppose?"

"Commerce. Yes, I have heard of it. But I doubt whether I have the necessary genius."

The old man looked at him as though he doubted whether or no he were being laughed at.

"The necessary kind of genius, I mean," continued George.

"Very likely not. Your genius is adapted to dispersing, perhaps, rather than collecting."

"I dare say it is, sir."

"And I suppose you never heard of a man with a--what is it you call your degree? a double-first--going
behind a counter. What sort of men are the double-lasts, I wonder!"

"It is they, I rather think, who go behind the counters," said George, who had no idea of allowing
his uncle to have all the raillery on his side.

"Is it, sir? But I rather think they don't come out last when the pudding is to be proved by
the eating. Success in life is not to be won by writing Greek verses; not though you write
ever so many. A ship-load of them would not fetch you the value of this glass of wine at any
market in the world."

"Commerce is a grand thing," said George, with an air of conviction.

"It is the proper work for men," said his uncle, proudly.

"But I have always heard," replied the nephew, "that a man in this country has no right to
look to commerce as a profession unless he possesses capital." Mr. Bertram, feeling that the
tables had been turned against him, finished his glass of wine and poked the fire.

A few days afterwards the same subject was again raised between them. "You must choose for
yourself, George," said the old man; "and you should choose quickly."

"If I could choose for myself--which I am aware that I cannot do; for circumstances, after
all, will have the decision--but, if I could choose, I would go into Parliament."

"Go where?" said Mr. Bertram, who would have thought it as reasonable if his nephew had proposed
to take a house in Belgrave Square with the view of earning a livelihood.

"Into Parliament, sir."

"Is Parliament a profession? I never knew it before."

"Perhaps not, ordinarily, a money-making profession; nor would I wish to make it so."

"And what county, or what borough do you intend to honour by representing it? Perhaps the University
will return you."

"Perhaps it may some of these days."

"And, in the meantime, you mean to live on your fellowship, I suppose?"

"On that and anything else that I can get."

Mr. Bertram sat quiet for some time without speaking, and George also seemed inclined to muse
awhile upon the subject. "George," said the uncle, at last, "I think it will be better that
we should thoroughly understand each other. You are a good fellow in your way, and I like you
well enough. But you must not get into your head any idea that you are to be my heir."

"No, sir; I won't."

"Because it would only ruin you. My idea is that a man should make his own way in the world
as I made mine. If you were my son, it may be presumed that I should do as other men do, and
give you my money. And, most probably, you would make no better use of it than the sons of
other men who, like me, have made money. But you are not my son."

"Quite true, sir; and therefore I shall be saved the danger. At any rate, I shall not be the
victim of disappointment."

"I am very glad to hear it," said Mr. Bertram, who, however, did not give any proof of his
gladness, seeing that he evinced some little addition of acerbity in his temper and asperity
in his manner. It was hard to have to deal with a nephew with whom he could find so little
ground for complaint.

"But I have thought it right to warn you," he continued, "You are aware that up to the present
moment the expense of your education has been borne by me."

"No, sir; not my education."

"Not your education! How, then, has it been borne?"

"I speak of my residence at Oxford. I have had a great many indulgences there, and you have
paid for them. The expenses of my education I could have paid myself." This was fair on George's
part. He had not asked his uncle for a liberal allowance, and was hardly open to blame for
having taken it.

"I only know I have paid regularly one hundred and fifty pounds a year to your order, and I
find from Pritchett"--Pritchett was his man of business--"that I am paying it still."

"He sent me the last quarter the other day; but I have not touched it."

"Never mind; let that pass. I don't know what your father's views are about you, and never
could find out."

"I'll ask him. I mean to go and see him."

"Go and see him! Why, he's at Bagdad."

"Yes. If I start at once I shall just catch him there, or perhaps meet him at Damascus."

"Then you'll be a great fool for your pains--a greater fool almost than I take you to be. What
do you expect your father can do for you? My belief is, that if four hundred pounds would take
him to heaven, he couldn't make up the money. I don't think he could raise it either in Europe
or Asia. I'm sure of this; I wouldn't lend it him."

"In such a case as that, sir, his personal security would go for so little."

"His personal security has always gone for little. But, as I was saying, I have consented ever
since you went to Wilkinson's to allow your father to throw the burthen of your expenses on
my shoulders. I thought it a pity that you should not have the chance of a decent education.
Mind, I claim no gratitude, as I shall expect your father to pay me what I have advanced."

"How on earth can he do that, sir? But perhaps I can."

"Can you? very well; then you can settle it with him. But listen to me."

"Listen to me for a moment, uncle George. I think you are hard on my father, and certainly
hard on me. When I went to Wilkinson's, what did I know of who paid the bill?"

"Who says you knew anything, sir?"

"And, counting on from that time, at what period ought I to have begun to know it? When should
I have first learnt to feel that I was a burden to any one?"

"Who has talked about a burden?"

"You say I am not to be your heir?"

"Certainly not."

"I never thought of being your heir. I don't care a straw about being anybody's heir. What
you have given freely, I have taken freely. As for my father, if you felt so harshly towards
him, why did you let him incur this debt?"

"I was to see you kicked out of Wilkinson's house and starve in the ditch, I suppose? But now,
if you can control your fine feelings for one moment, will you listen to me? I have never blamed
you in the matter at all, and don't blame you now--at least not yet."

"I hope you never will--that is about money matters."

"Now do listen to me. It seems to me that you are quite astray about a profession. You don't
like commerce, and what you said the other day about capital is quite true. I count a man a
knave who goes into trade without capital. In a small way we might, perhaps, have managed it.
But in a very small way you would not have liked it."

"Neither small nor great, sir."

"Very well. You need not be afraid that anything very great will be thrust upon you. But it
seems to me that what you are most fitted for is a lawyer."

Young Bertram paused a moment. "Uncle, I really hardly know. Sometimes I have a strange desire
to go into orders."

"Very strange indeed! But now, if you will listen to me--I have been speaking to Mr. Dry. Messrs.
Dry and Stickatit have done business for me for the last forty years. Now, George, I will advance
you three thousand pounds at four per cent.--"

"What should I want with three thousand pounds?"

"You don't suppose you can get into a house like that without money, do you?"

"And be an attorney?" said George, with a look of horror which almost penetrated the thick
skin of the old man's feelings. What! had he taken a double-first, been the leading man of
his year, spouted at the debating club, and driven himself nearly dizzy with Aristotle for
this--for a desk in the office of Messrs. Dry and Stickatit, attorneys of old Bucklersbury!
No, not for all the uncles! not for any uncle!

"They net four thousand pounds a year," said Mr. Bertram; "and in process of time you would
be the working partner, and have, at any rate, a full half of the business."

But, no! George was not to be talked into such a scheme as that by the offer of any loan, by
the mention of any number of thousands. He positively refused to consider the proposition;
and his uncle, with equal positiveness, refused to hold any further converse with him on the
subject of a profession. "Pritchett will pay you your present allowance," said he, "for two
years longer--that is, if I live."

"I can do without it, sir," said George.

"Pritchett will pay that amount for two years," said the uncle, with great positiveness; "after
that it will be discontinued. And for the next three months I shall be happy to see you here
as my guest."

It will be readily believed that George Bertram did not overstay the three months.

CHAPTER VI.

JERUSALEM.

But there was no quarrel between George Bertram uncle and George Bertram nephew: though in
such conversations as they had about business they were not over civil to each other, still
they went on together as good friends, at any rate as they ever had been. Indeed, after the
last scene which has been reported, the old man became more courteous to his nephew, and before
the three months were over was almost cordial.

There was that about George the younger which made the old uncle respect him, despite himself.
The London merchant had a thorough contempt for his brother, the soldier of fortune: he had
acted as he had done on behalf of that brother's son almost more with the view of showing his
contempt, and getting thereby an opportunity for expressing it, than with any fixed idea of
doing a kindness. He had counted also on despising the son as he had despised the father; but
here he found himself foiled. George had taken all that he had given, as any youth would take
what an uncle gave; but he had never asked for more: he had done as well as it was possible
for him to do in that line of education which had been tendered to him; and now, though he
would not become an attorney or a merchant, was prepared to earn his own bread, and professed
that he was able to support himself without further assistance from any one.

Before the three months were over, his uncle had more than once asked him to prolong his visit;
but George had made up his mind to leave Hadley. His purpose was to spend three or four months
in going out to his father, and then to settle in London. In the meantime, he employed himself
with studying the law of nations, and amused his leisure hours with Coke and Blackstone.

"You'll never find your father," said Mr. Bertram.

"At any rate, I'll try; and if I miss him, I shall see something of the world."

"You'll see more in London in three months than you will there in twelve; and, moreover, you
would not lose your time."

But George was inexorable, and before the three months were over he had started on his trip.

"I beg your pardon, Mr. George," said Mr. Pritchett to him the day before he went (his uncle
had requested him to call on Pritchett in the city)--"I beg your pardon, Mr. George, but if
I may be allowed to speak a word or so, I do hope you'll write a line now and then to the old
gentleman while you are away."

Now George had never written a line to his uncle in his life; all his communications as to
his journeys and proposed arrivals had, by his uncle's special direction, been made to the
housekeeper, and he had no present intention of commencing a correspondence.

"Write to him, Mr. Pritchett! No, I don't suppose I shall. I take it, my uncle does not much
care for such letters as I should write."

"Ah! but he would, Mr. George. You shouldn't be too quick to take persons by their appearances.
It's half a million of money, you know, Mr. George; half--a--million--of--money!" And Mr. Pritchett
put great stress on the numeration of his patron's presumed wealth.

"Half a million, is it? Well, that's a great deal, no doubt; and I fully see the force of your
excellent argument. But I fear there is nothing to be done in that line: I'm not born to be
the heir to half a million of money; you might see that in my face."

Mr. Pritchett stared at him very hard. "Well, I can't say that I do, Mr. George; but take my
word for it, the old gentleman is very fond of you."

"Very fond! That's a little too strong, isn't it?"

"That is, if he's very fond of anything. Now, he said to me yesterday, 'Pritchett,' says he,
'that boy's going to Bagdad.' 'What! Mr. George?' says I. 'Yes,' says he; 'and to Hong Kong
too, I suppose, before he comes back: he's going after his father;' and then he gave one of
those bitter looks, you know. 'That's a pity,' says I, for you know one must humour him. 'He
is a fool,' says your uncle, 'and always will be.'"

"I'm sure, Mr. Pritchett, I'm very much obliged for the trouble you are at in telling me."

"Oh! I think nothing of the trouble. 'And he knows no more about money,' says your uncle, 'than
an ostrich. He can't go to Bagdad out of his allowance.' 'Of course he can't,' said I. 'You
had better put three hundred pounds to his credit,' said the old gentleman; and so, Mr. George,
I have."

"I could have done very well without it, Mr. Pritchett."

"Perhaps so; but three hundred pounds never hurt anybody--never, Mr. George; and I can tell
you this: if you play your cards well, you may be the old gentleman's heir, in spite of all
he says to the contrary."

"At any rate, Mr. Pritchett, I'm very much obliged to you:" and so they parted.

"He'll throw that three hundred pounds in my teeth the next time I see him," said George to
himself.

Good as Mr. Pritchett's advice undoubtedly was, Bertram did not take it; and his uncle received
no line from him during the whole period of his absence. Our hero's search after his father
was not quite of so intricate a nature as was supposed by his uncle, nor so difficult as that
made by Japhet under similar circumstances. His route was to be by Paris, Marseilles, Malta,
Alexandria, Jaffa, Jerusalem, and Damascus, and he had written to Sir Lionel, requesting him
to write to either or all of those addresses. Neither in France, nor Malta, nor Egypt did he
receive any letters; but in the little town of Jaffa, where he first put his foot on Asiatic
soil, a despatch from his father was awaiting him. Sir Lionel was about to leave Persia, and
was proceeding to Constantinople on public service; but he would go out of his course to meet
his son at Jerusalem.

The tone of Sir Lionel's letter was very unlike that of Mr. Bertram's conversation. He heartily
congratulated his son on the splendid success of his degree; predicted for him a future career
both brilliant and rich; declared that it was the dearest wish of his heart to embrace his
son, and spoke of their spending a few weeks together at Jerusalem almost with rapture.

This letter very much delighted George. He had a natural anxiety to think well of his father,
and had not altogether believed the evil that had been rather hinted than spoken of him by
Mr. Bertram. The colonel had certainly not hitherto paid him very much parental attention,
and had generally omitted to answer the few letters which George had written to him. But a
son is not ill inclined to accept acts of new grace from a father; and there was something
so delightful in the tone and manner of Sir Lionel's letter, it was so friendly as well as
affectionate, so perfectly devoid of the dull, monotonous, lecture-giving asperity with which
ordinary fathers too often season their ordinary epistles, that he was in raptures with his
newly-found correspondent.

"I would not miss seeing you for worlds," wrote Sir Lionel; "and although I have been ordered
to Constantinople with all the immediate haste which your civil-service grandees always use
in addressing us military slaves, it shall go hard with me but I will steal a fortnight from
them in order to pass it with you at Jerusalem. I suppose I shall scarce know you, or you me;
but when you see an old gentleman in a military frock, with a bald head, a hook nose, and a
rather short allowance of teeth, you may then be sure that you look upon your father. However,
I will be at Z----'s Hotel--I believe they honour the caravansary with that name--as soon as
possible after the 14th."

His uncle had at any rate been quite wrong in predicting that his father would keep out of
his way. So far was this from being the case, that Sir Lionel was going to put himself to considerable
inconvenience to meet him. It might be, and no doubt was the case, that Mr. Bertram the merchant
had put together a great deal more money than Colonel Bertram the soldier; but the putting
together of money was no virtue in George's eyes; and if Sir Lionel had not remitted a portion
of his pay as regularly as he perhaps should have done, that should not now be counted as a
vice. It may perhaps be surmised that had George Bertram suffered much in consequence of his
father's negligence in remitting, he might have been disposed to look at the matter in a different
light.

He had brought but one servant with him, a dragoman whom he had picked up at Malta, and with
him he started on his ride from the city of oranges. Oranges grow plentifully enough in Spain,
in Malta, in Egypt, in Jamaica, and other places, but within five miles of Jaffa nothing else
is grown--if we except the hedges of prickly pear which divide the gardens. Orange garden succeeds
to orange garden till one finds oneself on the broad open desert that leads away to Jerusalem.

There is something enticing to an Englishman in the idea of riding off through the desert with
a pistol girt about his waist, a portmanteau strapped on one horse before him, and an only
attendant seated on another behind him. There is a soupçon of danger in the journey just sufficient
to give it excitement; and then it is so un-English, oriental, and inconvenient; so opposed
to the accustomed haste and comfort of a railway; so out of his hitherto beaten way of life,
that he is delighted to get into the saddle. But it may be a question whether he is not generally
more delighted to get out of it; particularly if that saddle be a Turkish one.

George had heard of Arab horses, and the clouds of dust which rise from their winged feet.
When first he got beyond the hedges of the orange gardens, he expected to gallop forth till
he found himself beneath the walls of Jerusalem. But he had before him many an hour of tedious
labour ere those walls were seen. His pace was about four miles an hour. During the early day
he strove frequently to mend it; but as the sun became hot in the heavens, his efforts after
speed were gradually reduced, and long before evening he had begun to think that Jerusalem
was a myth, his dragoman an impostor, and his Arab steed the sorriest of jades.

"It is the longest journey I ever took in my life," said George.

"Longest; yes. A top of two mountain more, and two go-down, and then there; yes," said the
dragoman, among whose various accomplishments that of speaking English could hardly be reckoned
as the most prominent.

At last the two mountains more and the two go-downs were performed, and George was informed
that the wall he saw rising sharp from the rocky ground was Jerusalem. There is something very
peculiar in the first appearance of a walled city that has no suburbs or extramural adjuncts.
It is like that of a fortress of cards built craftily on a table. With us in England it is
always difficult to say where the country ends and where the town begins; and even with the
walled towns of the Continent, one rarely comes upon them so as to see the sharp angles of
a gray stone wall shining in the sun, as they do in the old pictures of the cities in "Pilgrim's
Progress."

But so it is with Jerusalem. One rides up to the gate feeling that one is still in the desert;
and yet a moment more, with the permission of those very dirty-looking Turkish soldiers at
the gate, will place one in the city. One rides up to the gate, and as every one now has a
matured opinion as to the taking of casemated batteries and the inefficiency of granite bastions,
one's first idea is how delightfully easy it would be to take Jerusalem. It is at any rate
easy enough to enter it, for the dirty Turkish soldiers do not even look at you, and you soon
become pleasantly aware that you are beyond the region of passports.

George Bertram had promised himself that the moment in which he first saw Jerusalem should
be one of intense mental interest; and when, riding away from the orange gardens at Jaffa,
he had endeavoured to urge his Arab steed into that enduring gallop which was to carry him
up to the city of the sepulchre, his heart was ready to melt into ecstatic pathos as soon as
that gallop should have been achieved. But the time for ecstatic pathos had altogether passed
away before he rode in at that portal. He was then swearing vehemently at his floundering jade,
and giving up to all the fiends of Tartarus the accursed saddle which had been specially contrived
with the view of lacerating the nether Christian man.

"Where on earth is this d---- hotel?" said he, when he and his dragoman and portmanteau had
been floundering for about five minutes down a steep, narrow, ill-paved lane, with a half-formed
gully in the middle, very slippery with orange-peel and old vegetables, and crowded with the
turbans of all the Eastern races. "Do you call this a street?" After all his sentiment, all
his emotions, all his pious resolves, it was thus that our hero entered Jerusalem! But what
piety can withstand the wear and tear of twelve hours in a Turkish saddle?

"Is this a street?" said he. It was the main street in Jerusalem. The first, or among the first
in grandeur of those sacred ways which he had intended hardly to venture to pass with shoes
on his feet. His horse turning a corner as he followed the dragoman again slipped and almost
fell. Whereupon Bertram again cursed. But then he was not only tired and sore, but very hungry
also. Our finer emotions should always be encouraged with a stomach moderately full.

At last they stopped at a door in a wall, which the dragoman pronounced to be the entrance
of Z----'s hotel. In fact they had not yet been full ten minutes within the town; but the streets
certainly were not well paved. In five minutes more, George was in his room, strewing sofas
and chairs with the contents of his portmanteau, and inquiring with much energy what was the
hour fixed for the table d'hôte. He found, with much inward satisfaction, that he had just
twenty minutes to prepare himself. At Jerusalem, as elsewhere, these after all are the traveller's
first main questions. When is the table d'hôte? Where is the cathedral? At what hour does the
train start to-morrow morning? It will be some years yet, but not very many, before the latter
question is asked at Jerusalem.

Bertram had arrived about a fortnight before Easter, and the town was already full of pilgrims,
congregated for that ceremony, and of English and Americans who had come to look at the pilgrims.

The inn was nearly full, and George, when he entered the public room, heard such a Babel of
English voices, and such a clatter of English spoons that he might have fancied himself at
the top of the Righi or in a Rhine steamboat. But the subjects under discussion all savoured
of the Holy Land.

"Mrs. Rose, we are going to have a picnic on Monday in the Valley of Jehoshaphat; will you
and your young ladies join us? We shall send the hampers to the tomb of Zachariah."

"Thank you, Miss Todd; we should have been so happy; but we have only three days to do Bethlehem,
the Dead Sea, and Jericho. We must be off to-morrow."

"Mamma, I lost my parasol somewhere coming down the Mount of Offence. Those nasty Arab children
must have stolen it."

"They say the people in Siloam are the greatest thieves in Syria; and nobody dares to meddle
with them."

"But I saw it in your hand, my dear, at the Well of Enrogel."

"What, no potatoes! there were potatoes yesterday. Waiter, waiter; who ever heard of setting
people down to dinner without potatoes?"

"Well, I didn't know what to say to it. If that is the tomb of Nicodemus, that seems to settle
the question. May I trouble you for the salt?"

"Mr. Pott, I won't have anything more to say to you; you have no faith. I believe it all."

"What, all? from Calvary upstairs in the gallery down to the dark corner where the cock crew?"

"Yes, all, Mr. Pott. Why should not a cock crow there as well as anywhere else? It is so beautiful
to believe."

George Bertram found himself seated next to a lady-like well-dressed Englishwoman of the middle
age, whom he heard called Miss Baker; and next to her again sat--an angel! whom Miss Baker
called Caroline, and whom an odious man sitting on the other side of her called Miss Waddington.

All my readers will probably at different times have made part of a table-d'hôte assemblage;
and most of them, especially those who have travelled with small parties, will know how essential
it is to one's comfort to get near to pleasant neighbours. The young man's idea of a pleasant
neighbour is of course a pretty girl. What the young ladies' idea may be I don't pretend to
say. But it certainly does seem to be happily arranged by Providence that the musty fusty people,
and the nicy spicy people, and the witty pretty people do severally assemble and get together
as they ought to do.

Bertram's next-door neighbour was certainly of the nicy spicy order; but this did not satisfy
him. He would have been very well pleased to talk to Miss Baker had it not been for the close
contiguity of Miss Waddington; and even her once-removed vicinity would not have made him unhappy
had not that odious man on her left had so much to say about the village of Emmaus and the
Valley of Ajalon.

Now, be it known to all men that Caroline Waddington is our donna primissima--the personage
of most importance in these pages. It is for her that you are to weep, with her that you are
to sympathize, and at her that you are to wonder. I would that I could find it compatible with
my duty to introduce her to this circle without any minute details of her bodily and mental
charms; but I have already been idle in the case of Adela Gauntlet, and I feel that a donna
primissima has claims to description which I cannot get over. Only not exactly now; in a few
chapters hence we shall have Miss Waddington actively engaged upon the scene, and then she
shall be described.

It must suffice now to say that she was an orphan; that since her father's death she had lived
with her aunt, Miss Baker, chiefly at Littlebath; that Miss Baker had, at her niece's instance,
been to Egypt, up the Nile, across the short desert--(short!) having travelled from Cairo to
Jerusalem,--and that now, thoroughly sick of the oriental world, she was anxious only to get
back to Littlebath; while Caroline, more enthusiastic, and much younger, urged her to go on
to Damascus and Lebanon, to Beyrout and Smyrna, and thence home, merely visiting Constantinople
and Athens on the way.

Had Bertram heard the terms in which Miss Waddington spoke of the youth who was so great about
Ajalon when she and her aunt were in their own room, and also the words in which that aunt
spoke of him, perhaps he might have been less provoked.

"Aunt, that Mr. M'Gabbery is an ass. I am sure he has ears if one could only see them. I am
so tired of him. Don't you think we could get on to Damascus to-morrow?"

"If we did I have no doubt he'd come too." Mr. M'Gabbery had been one of the party who crossed
the desert with them from Cairo.

"Impossible, aunt. The Hunters are ready to start to-morrow, or, if not, the day after, and
I know they would not have him."

"But, my dear, I really am not equal to Damascus. A few more days on a camel--"

"But, aunt, you'll have a horse."

"That's worse, I'm sure. And, moreover, I've found an old friend, and one that you will like
very much."

"What, that exceedingly ugly young man that sat next to you?"

"Yes. That exceedingly ugly young man I remember as the prettiest baby in the world--not that
I think he is ugly. He is, however, no other than the nephew of Mr. Bertram."

"What, papa's Mr. Bertram?"

"Yes; your father's Mr. Bertram. Therefore, if old Mr. Bertram should die, and this young man
should be his heir, he would have the charge of all your money. You'd better be gracious to him."

"How odd! But what is he like?"

"He is one of the cleverest young men of the day. I had heard that he had distinguished himself
very much at Oxford; and he certainly is a most agreeable companion." And so it was arranged
between them that they would not start to Damascus as yet, in spite of any evil that Mr. M'Gabbery
might inflict on them.

On the next morning at breakfast, Bertram managed to separate the aunt from the niece by sitting
between them. It was long, however, before Mr. M'Gabbery gave up the battle. When he found
that an interloper was interfering with his peculiar property, he began to tax his conversational
powers to the utmost. He was greater than ever about Ajalon, and propounded some very startling
theories with reference to Emmaus. He recalled over and over again the interesting bits of
their past journey; how tired they had been at Gaza, where he had worked for the ladies like
a slave--how terribly Miss Baker had been frightened in the neighbourhood of Arimathea, where
he, Mr. M'Gabbery, had specially looked to his pistols with the view of waging war on three
or four supposed Bedouins who were seen to be hovering on the hill-sides. But all would not
do. Miss Waddington was almost tired of Gaza and Arimathea, and Miss Baker seemed to have a
decided preference for London news. So at last Mr. M'Gabbery became silent and grand, and betook
himself to his associations and a map of Palestine in a corner.

Bertram, when fortified with a night's rest and a good breakfast, was able to recover his high-toned
feeling, and, thus armed, proceeded alone to make his first visit to the Church of the Holy
Sepulchre. It was a Sunday, the last Sunday in Lent; and he determined to hear mass in the
Greek Church, and ascertain for himself how much devotion an English Protestant could experience
in the midst of this foreign worship. But one mass was over and another not begun when he reached
the building, and he had thus time to follow his dragoman to the various wonders of that very
wonderful building.

It is now generally known in England of what the church of the holy places consists; but no
one who has not seen it, and none, indeed, who have not seen it at Easter-time, can fully realize
all the absurdity which it contains and all the devotion which it occasions. Bertram was first
carried to the five different churches which have crowded themselves together under the same
roof. The Greeks have by far the best of it. Their shrine is gaudy and glittering, and their
temple is large and in some degree imposing. The Latins, whom we call Roman Catholics, are
much less handsomely lodged, and their tinsel is by far more dingy. The Greeks, too, possess
the hole in which stood--so they say--the cross of Our Saviour; while the Latins are obliged
to put up with the sites on which the two thieves were crucified. Then the church of the Armenians,
for which you have to descend almost into the bowels of the earth, is still less grand in its
pretensions, is more sombre, more dark, more dirty; but it is as the nave of St. Peter's when
compared to the poor wooden-cased altar of the Abyssinians, or the dark unfurnished gloomy
cave in which the Syrian Christians worship, so dark that the eye cannot at first discover
its only ornament--a small ill-made figure of the crucified Redeemer.

We who are accustomed to Roman Catholic gorgeousness in Italy and France can hardly at first
understand why the Pope here should playso decidedly a second fiddle. But as he is held to
be God's viceregent among the people of south-western Europe, so is the Russian emperor among
the Christians of the East. He, the Russian, is still by far the greatest pope in Jerusalem,
and is treated with a much greater respect, a much truer belief, than is his brother of Rome,
even among Romans.

Five or six times Bertram had attempted to get into the Tabernacle of the Holy Sepulchre; but
so great had been the rush of pilgrims, that he had hitherto failed. At last his dragoman espied
a lull, and went again to the battle. To get into the little outside chapel, which forms, as
it were, a vestibule to the cell of the sepulchre, and from which on Easter Saturday issue
the miraculous flames, was a thing to be achieved by moderate patience. His close contiguity
to Candiotes and Copts, to Armenians and Abyssinians was not agreeable to our hero, for the
contiguity was very close, and Christians of these nations are not very cleanly. But this was
nothing to the task of entering the sanctum sanctorum. To this there is but one aperture, and
that is but four feet high; men entering it go in head foremost, and those retreating come
out in the other direction; and as it is impossible that two should pass, and as two or three
are always trying to come out, and ten or twelve equally anxious to get in, the struggle to
an Englishman is disagreeably warm, though to an Oriental it is probably matter of interesting
excitement.

But for his dragoman, Bertram would never have succeeded. He, however, so pulled and hauled
these anxious devotees, so thrust in those who endeavoured to come out, and clawed back those
who strove to get in, that the passage became for a moment clear, and our hero, having bent
low his head, found himself standing with his hand on the marble slab of the tomb.

Those who were there around him seemed to be the outcasts of the world, exactly those whom
he would have objected to meet, unarmed, on the roads of Greece or among the hills of Armenia;
cut-throat-looking wretches, with close-shaven heads, dirty beards, and angry eyes; men clothed
in skins, or huge skin-like-looking cloaks, filthy, foul, alive with vermin, reeking with garlic,--abominable
to an Englishman. There was about them a certain dignity of demeanour, a natural aptitude to
carry themselves with ease, and even a not impure taste for colour among their dirt. But these
Christians of the Russian Church hardly appeared to him to be brothers of his own creed.

But he did put his hand on the slab of the tomb; and as he did so, two young Greeks, brothers
by blood--Greeks by their creed, though of what actual nation Bertram was quite unable say--pressed
their lips vehemently to the marble. They were dirty, shorn about the head, dangerous looking,
and skin-clothed, as we have described; men very low in the scale of humanity when compared
with their fellow-pilgrim; but, nevertheless, they were to him at that moment objects of envy.
They believed: so much at any rate was clear to him. By whatever code of morals they might
be able to govern their lives, whether by any, or as, alas! might be too likely, by none, at
least they possessed a faith. Christ to them was an actual living truth, though they knew how
to worship him no better than by thus kissing a stone, which had in fact no closer reference
to the Saviour than any other stone they might have kissed in their own country. They believed;
and as they reverently pressed their foreheads, lips, and hands to the top and sides and edges
of the sepulchre, their faith became ecstatic. It was thus that Bertram would fain have entered
that little chapel, thus that he would have felt, thus that he would have acted had he been
able. So had he thought to feel--in such an agony of faith had he been minded there to kneel.
But he did not kneel at all. He remarked to himself that the place was inordinately close,
that his contiguity to his religious neighbours was disagreeable; and then, stooping low his
head, not in reverence, but with a view to backing himself out from the small enclosure, with
some delay and much precaution, and, to speak truth, with various expressions of anger against
those who with their heads continued to push him the way he did not wish to go, he retreated
from the chapel. Nor while he was at Jerusalem did he feel sufficient interest in the matter
again to enter it. He had done that deed, he had killed that lion, and, ticking it off from
his list of celebrities as one celebrity disposed of, he thought but little more about it.
Such, we believe, are the visits of most English Christians to the so-called Holy Sepulchre.

And then he killed the other lions there: Calvary up in the gallery; the garden, so called,
in which the risen Saviour addressed the women running from the sepulchre; the place where
Peter's cock crew; the tomb of Nicodemus--all within the same church, all under the one roof--all
at least under what should be a roof, only now it has fallen into ruin, so that these sacred
places are open to the rain of heaven, and Greeks and Latins having quarrelled about the repairs,
the Turks, now lords of the Holy Sepulchre, have taken the matter into their own hands, and
declared that no repairs shall be done by any of them.

And then he attended the Greek mass--at least, he partly believed that he did so, somewhat
doubting, for the mass was not said as are those of the Romans, out at an open altar before
the people, but in a holy of holies; very holy, it may be imagined, from the manner in which
the worshippers rubbed their foreheads against certain gratings, through which a tantalizing
glimpse might be had of the fine things that were going on within. Had they but known it, it
might all have been seen, holy of holies, head-wagging priest, idle yawning assistant, with
legs stretched out, half asleep, mumblement, jumblement and all, from a little back window
in a passage opening from that Calvary gallery upstairs. From thence at least did these profane
eyes look down and see all the mumblement and jumblement, which after all was little enough;
but saw especially the idle clerical apprentice who, had that screen been down, and had he
been called on to do his altar work before the public eye, would not have been so nearly asleep,
as may perhaps be said of other clerical performers nearer home.

But Bertram's attention was mainly occupied with watching the devotions of a single woman.
She was a female of one of those strange nations, decently clad, about thirty years of age,
pleasant to the eye were she not so dirty, and had she not that wild look, half way between
the sallow sublime and the dangerously murderous, which seems common to oriental Christians,
whether men or women. Heaven might know of what sins she came there to leave the burden: heaven
did know, doubtless; but from the length of her manoeuvres in quitting herself of their weight,
one would say that they were heavy; and yet she went through her task with composed dignity,
with an alacrity that was almost joyous, and certainly with no intentional self-abasement.

Entering the church with a quick step, she took up a position as though she had selected a
special stone on which to stand. There, with head erect, but bowing between each ceremony,
she crossed herself three times; then sinking on her knees, thrice she pressed her forehead
to the floor; then rising again, again she crossed herself. Having so done somewhat to the
right of the church, but near the altar-screen, she did the same on the corresponding stone
towards the left, and then again the same on a stone behind the others, but in the centre.
After this she retreated further back, and did three more such worshippings, always choosing
her stone with an eye to architectural regularity; then again, getting to the backward, she
did three more, thus completing her appointed task, having crossed herself thirty-six times,
and pressed her head with twenty-seven pressures upon the floor. And so, having finished, she
quickly withdrew. Did any slightest prayer, any idea of praying, any thought of a God giving
grace and pardon if only asked to give, once enter that bowing bosom?

"Why do those Turks sit there?" said Bertram, as he left the building. Why, indeed? It was
strange to see five or six stately Turks, strict children of the Prophet doubtless, sitting
there within the door of this temple dedicated to the Nazarene God, sitting there and looking
as though they of all men had the most right so to sit, and were most at home in so sitting;
nay, they had a divan there, were drinking coffee there out of little double cups, as is the
manner of these people; were not smoking, certainly, as is their manner also in all other places.

"Dem guard de keys," said the dragoman.

"Guard the keys!"

"Yes, yes; open de lock, and not let de Christian fight."

So it is. In such manner is proper, fitting, peaceable conduct maintained within the thrice
Christian walls of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.

On his return to the hotel, Bertram accepted an invitation to join Miss Todd's picnic in the
Valley of Jehoshaphat, and then towards evening strolled up alone on to the Mount of Olives.

CHAPTER VII.

THE MOUNT OF OLIVES.

If there be one place told of in holy writ, the name of which gives rise to more sacred feelings
than any other, it is that of the Mount of Olives; and if there be a spot in that land of wondrous
memories which does bring home to the believer in Christ some individualized remembrance of
his Saviour's earthly pilgrimage, that certainly is it.

There is no doubting there, no question there whether or no the ground on which you tread was
not first called "the mount" by some Byzantine Sophia; whether tradition respecting it can
go back further than Constantine; whether, in real truth, that was the hill over which Jesus
walked when he travelled from the house of Lazarus at Bethany to fulfil his mission in the
temple. No: let me take any ordinary believing Protestant Christian to that spot, and I will
as broadly defy him to doubt there as I will defy him to believe in that filthy church of the
holy places.

The garden of Gethsemane near the city, "over the brook Cedron," where he left his disciples
resting while he went yonder to pray; the hill-side on which the angel appeared unto him, strengthening
him, and whither Judas and the multitude came out to take him; Bethany, the town of Mary and
Martha, "fifteen furlongs from Jerusalem," where Lazarus was raised from the dead; the spot
from whence he sent for the ass and the ass's colt; the path from thence to the city by which
he rode when the multitude "cried, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David!" the same multitude
which afterwards came out against him with staves: these places are there, now as they were
in his day, very credible--nay, more, impossible not to be believed. These are the true holy
places of Jerusalem, places for which Greeks and Latins do not fight, guarded by no sedate,
coffee-drinking Turks, open there to all men under the fair heavens, and desolate enough, too,
even in these pilgrim weeks, for any one or two who will sit there alone and ponder over the
wondrous history of the city that still lies over against him.

But what is the so strong evidence of the actual identity of these places? What is it that
makes me so sure that this is the Mount of Olives, and that water-channel there the brook Cedron,
and the hamlet on the other side the veritable Bethany? Why is one to be so sure of these,
and yet feel such an infinity of doubt as to that village of Emmaus, that valley of Ajalon,
that supposed Arimathea, and the rest of them? Nay, I cannot well say, at any rate not in these
light novel pages. Dr. Stanley, with considerable distinctness does say. But go and see: with
the ordinary Protestant Christian seeing here will be believing, as seeing over in that church
of the holy places most indisputably will be disbelieving.

Hither Bertram strolled, and, seated on the brow of the hill, looked over to Jerusalem till
the short twilight of the Syrian evening had left him, and he could no longer discern the wondrous
spots on which his eye still rested. Wondrous, indeed! There before him were the walls of Jerusalem,
standing up erect from the hill-side--for the city is still all fenced up--stretching from
hill to hill in varying but ever continued line: on the left was the Hill of Sion, David's
hill, a hill still inhabited, and mainly by Jews. Here is still the Jews' quarters, and the
Jews' hospital too, tended by English doctors, nurtured also by English money; and here, too,
close to David's Gate, close also to that new huge Armenian convent, shall one, somewhat closely
scrutinizing among heaps of rubbish, come upon a colony of lepers. In the town, but not of
it, within the walls, but forbidden all ingress to the streets, there they dwell, a race of
mournfullest Pariahs. From father to son, from mother to daughter, dire disease, horrid, polluting,
is handed down, a certain legacy, making the body loathsome, and likening the divine face of
man to a melancholy ape. Oh! the silent sadness, the inexpressible melancholy of those wan,
thoughtless, shapeless, boneless, leaden faces! To them no happy daily labour brings rest and
appetite; their lot forbids them work, as it forbids all other blessings. No; on their dunghills
outside their cabins there they sit in the sun, the mournfullest sight one might look on, the
leper parents with their leper children, beggars by inheritance, paupers, outcasts, mutilated
victims,--but still with souls, if they or any round them did but know it.

There also, directly facing him, was the Mount Moriah, also inside the walls, where Solomon
built the house of the Lord, "where the Lord appeared unto David his father, in the place that
David had prepared, in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite." For this city, Jerusalem,
had, in still more ancient days, before the thought of that temple had come into men's minds,
been the city Jebus, a city even then fenced up, and here had been the threshing-floor which
Ornan tendered to David without price, but which the king bought for six hundred shekels of gold.

Yes; here before him as he sat was the site of that temple, Solomon's temple, "exceeding magnificent,
of fame and glory throughout all countries," of which David had been worthy only to collect
the materials. The site! nay, but there were the very stones themselves.

Seen from that hill, the city seems so close that you may lay your hand upon it. Between you
and it (you, if ever you should happily come to sit there) lies that valley of Jehoshaphat,
in which Miss Todd is going to celebrate her picnic. This is the valley in which the Jews most
love to have themselves buried; as there, according to them, is the chosen site of the resurrection:
and thus they who painfully journeying thither in their old age, and dying there can there
be buried, will have no frightful, moles'-work, underground pilgrimage to detain them when
that awful trumpet shall once more summon them to the upper world.

The air, in Syria there, is thin and clear, clouded by no fogs; and the lines of the wall and
the minarets of the mosque are distinct and bright and sharp against the sky, as in the evening
light one looks across from one hill to the other. The huge stones of the wall now standing,
stones which made part of that ancient temple, can be counted, one above another, across the
valley. Measured by a rough estimate, some of them may be two and twenty feet in length, seven
in depth, and five in height, single blocks of hewn rock, cut certainly by no Turkish enterprise,
by no mediæval empire, by no Roman labour. It is here, and here only, at the base of the temple,
that these huge stones are to be found, at the base of what was the temple, forming part of
the wall that now runs along the side of Mount Moriah, but still some forty feet above the ground.

Over them now is the Mosque of Omar--a spot to be desecrated no more by Christian step. On
the threshing-floor of Ornan, the children of Mahomet now read the Koran and sing to Allah
with monotonous howl. Oh, what a history! from the treading of the Jebusite's oxen down to
the first cry of the Mussulman! Yes; no Christian may now enter here, may hardly look into
the walled court round the building. But dignified Turks, drinking coffee on their divan within
the building, keep the keys of the Christian church--keep also the peace, lest Latin and Greek
should too enthusiastically worship their strange gods.

There can be few spots on the world's surface more sacred to any Christian than that on which
Bertram sat. Coming up from Bethany, over a spur on the southern side of the Mount of Olives,
towards Jerusalem, the traveller, as he rises on the hill, soon catches a sight of the city,
and soon again loses it. But going onward along his path, the natural road which convenience
would take, he comes at length to the brow of the hill, looking downwards, and there has Mount
Sion, Moriah, and the site of the temple full before him. No one travelling such a road could
do other than pause at such a spot.

'Twas here that Jesus "sat upon the mount, over against the temple." There is no possibility
of mistaking the place. "And as he went, one of the disciples saith unto him, 'Master, see
what manner of stones and what buildings are here.' And Jesus answering, said unto him, 'Seest
thou these great buildings? There shall not be left one stone upon another that shall not be
thrown down.'" There are the stones, the very stones, thrown down indeed from the temple, but
now standing erect as a wall, supporting Omar's mosque.

"And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it." Yes, walk up from Bethany,
my reader, and thou, too, shalt behold it, even yet; a matter to be wept over even now. 'Tis
hard to sit there and not weep, if a man have any heart within him, any memory of those histories.
But thou wouldest not know. And where art thou now, O Jew? And who is it that sittest in thy
high place, howling there to Allah most unmusically?

"O, Jerusalem, Jerusalem!" Not silently, and in thought only, but with outspoken words and
outstretched hands, so then spake our young English friend, sitting there all alone, gazing
on the city. What man familiar with that history could be there and not so speak?

When talking over the matter with Harcourt at Oxford, and afterwards with his uncle at Hadley,
Bertram had expressed a sort of half-formed wish to go into the church; not, indeed, in such
a manner as to leave on the minds of either of his counsellors an idea that he would really
do so; but this profession of being a parson had been one of those of which he had spoken as
being in some sort desirable for himself. Now, as he sat there, looking at the once holy city,
it seemed to him to be the only profession in any way desirable. He resolved that he would
be a clergyman; thanked his God in that he had brought him there to this spot before it was
too late; acknowledged that, doubting as he had done, he had now at length found a Divine counsellor--one
whose leading his spirit did not disdain. There he devoted himself to the ministry, declared
that he, too, would give what little strength he had towards bringing the scattered chickens
of the new house of Israel to that only wing which could give them the warmth of life. He would
be one of the smallest, one of the least of those who would fight the good fight; but, though
smallest and least, he would do it with what earnestness was in him.

Reader! you may already, perhaps, surmise that George Bertram does not become a clergyman.
It is too true. That enthusiasm, strong, true, real as it was, did not last him much longer
than his last walk round Jerusalem; at least, did not bide by him till he found himself once
more walking on the High Street of Oxford. Very contemptible this, you will say. Yes, contemptible
enough, as humanity so often is. Who amongst us have not made such resolves--some resolve of
self-devotion, at the sound of the preacher's voice--and forgotten it before our foot was well
over the threshold? It is so natural, that wish to do a great thing; so hard, that daily task
of bathing in Jordan.

When the bright day had disappeared, all but suddenly, and he could no longer see the minarets
of the mosque, Bertram descended the hill. It is but a short walk thence to Jerusalem--thence
even into the centre of Jerusalem.

But what a walk! To the left is the valley-side--that valley of the Resurrection--covered with
tombs--flat, sturdy, short stones, each bearing a semblance, at least, of some short Hebraic
epitaph, unmoved through heaven knows how many centuries! apparently immovable; the place,
in this respect, being very unlike our more ornamental cemeteries. On his right was the Mount
of Olives; a mount still of olives, sprinkled over with olive-trees quite sufficiently to make
it properly so called, even to this day. Then he passed by the garden of Gethsemane, now a
walled-in garden, in which grow rue and other herbs; in which, also, is one fine, aged olive-tree,
as to which tradition of course tells wondrous tales. This garden is now in charge of an old
Latin monk--a Spaniard, if I remember well--who, at least, has all a Spaniard's courtesy.

It was here, or near to this, just above, on the hill-side, if our topography be reliable,
that Jesus asked them whether they could not watch one hour. Bertram, as he passed, did not
take the question to himself; but he well might have done so.

Turning round the wall of the garden, on his pathway up to Stephen's Gate, the so-called tomb
of the Virgin was on his right hand, with its singular, low, subterranean chapel. A very singular
chapel, especially when filled to the very choking with pilgrims from those strange retreats
of oriental Christendom, and when the mass is being said--inaudible, indeed, and not to be
seen, at the furthest end of that dense, underground crowd, but testified to by the lighting
of a thousand tapers, and by the strong desire for some flicker of the holy flame.

And then he ascended to the city, up the steep hill, the side of Mount Moriah, to St. Stephen's
Gate; and there, on his left, was the entrance to Omar's mosque, guarded by fierce dervishes
against pollution from stray Christian foot. Hence to his hotel every footstep was over ground
sacred in some sense, but now desecrated by traditionary falsehoods. Every action of our Saviour's
passion has its spot assigned to it; of every noted word the locale is given. When once you
are again within the walls, all is again unbelievable, fabulous, miraculous; nay, all but blasphemous.
Some will say quite so. But, nevertheless, in passing by this way, should you, O reader! ever
make such passage, forget not to mount to the top of Pilate's house.

On his return to his inn, Bertram at once found that there had been an arrival of some importance
during his absence. Waiters and boots were all busy--for there are waiters and boots at Jerusalem,
much the same as at the "Saracen's Head," or "White Lion;" there is no chambermaid, however,
only a chamberman. Colonel Sir Lionel Bertram was there.

CHAPTER VIII.

SIR LIONEL BERTRAM.

The personal peculiarities which Sir Lionel had mentioned in his letter to his son as being
characteristic of himself were certainly true. But he was more than this: though elderly he
was tall and upright; he was distinguished looking, and, for an old man, handsome in spite
of his lost teeth; and though bald as to the top of his head, had yet enough hair to merit
considerable attention, and to be the cause of considerable pride. His whiskers, also, and
mustache, though iron-gray, were excellent in their way. Had his baldness been of an uglier
description, or his want of teeth more disagreeably visible, he probably might not have alluded
to them himself. In truth, Sir Lionel was not a little vain of his personal appearance, and
thought that in the matter of nose, he was quite equal to the Duke in aristocratic firmness,
and superior to Sir Charles Napier in expression and general design.

But though a vain man, Sir Lionel was too clever to let his vanity show itself in an offensive
manner. The "ars celare artem" was his forte; and he was able to live before the world as though
he never cast a thought on his coat and pantaloons, or ever did more than brush and smooth
his iron-gray locks with due attention to cleanliness.

I was going to say that Sir Lionel's appearance was the best thing about him; but in saying
so I should belie his manner, with which it was certainly difficult for any one to find fault.
It was what the world calls happy, meaning thereby, that so great was the possessor's luck
that he was able to make it pleasant to all men, and to all women--for a while. Mrs. Bertram--she
had not lived to be my lady--had, I believe, not always found it so.

These, joined to a readiness in the use of one or two languages besides his own, were the qualifications
which had given Sir Lionel his title, and had caused him to be employed in so many missions
in so many countries; and on duty, too, which could not be said to be of a military nature.
He never made difficulties or enemies of his own, and could generally smooth down the difficulties
and enemies left behind them by others, perhaps of a more sturdy temperament.

But now the catalogue of his virtues is complete. He was not a man of genius, or even a man
of talent. He had performed no great service for his country; had neither proposed nor carried
through any valuable project of diplomacy; nor had he shown any close insight into the habits
and feelings of the people among whom he had lived. But he had been useful as a great oil-jar,
from whence oil for the quiescence of troubled waters might ever and anon be forthcoming. Expediency
was his god, and he had hitherto worshipped it with a successful devotion.

That he had not been a good husband has been hinted; that he had been a very indifferent father
has been made apparent. But at the moment of his meeting with his son, he atoned for all his
past sins in this respect by the excellence of his manner; and before the evening was over,
George liked his father, who had owed him everything and given him nothing, ten times better
than he had ever liked his uncle who had given him everything though he had owed him nothing.

"It's an odd place for us to have met in at last, is it not, sir?" said George. They were sitting
after supper very close together on one of those stationary sofas which are found affixed to
the wall in every room in the East, and the son was half holding, half caressing his father's
arm. Sir Lionel, to tell the truth, did not much care for such caresses, but under the peculiar
circumstances of this present interview he permitted it.

"You see, I'm always in odd places, George."

"You've been in Jerusalem before?"

"No, never. It's not on the road anywhere, or on any road at all, as one may well see. I never
knew such a place to get to. Now there are roads of some sort even about Bagdad."

"And Damascus?"

"Oh, Damascus is a highway; but nobody comes to Jerusalem except the pilgrims, and those who
like to look after the pilgrims. We are just in the thick of them now, I believe."

"Yes, sir. There are thirteen thousand here. I am sure you'll like the place. I am delighted
with it, although I have been here as yet only two days."

"Perhaps more so than you will be when you have been ten."

"I don't think it. But it is not the city itself."

"No; that seems poor and dirty enough."

"I would not mind the dirt if the place were but true." Sir Lionel did not quite understand
him, but he said nothing. "It is the country round, the immediate vicinity of Jerusalem that
fascinates so wonderfully."

"Ah! the scenery is good, is it?"

"Well, in one way it is; but I do not mean that. I cannot explain it; but to-morrow you will
go to the Mount of Olives with me."

"Mount of Olives, eh? I'm not very good at climbing up a hill, Master George; you must remember
the difference between twenty-three and sixty-three. What is there to see there?"

What was there to see there! This was said in a tone which made George feel rather indisposed
to describe, if describe he could, what there was there to be seen. He had quite wit enough
to perceive that his father was not enthusiastic about Bible history.

And then they changed the conversation, and began to talk about George Bertram the elder.

"It's eighteen years since I've seen my brother," said Sir Lionel. "He was usually cross enough
then. I suppose he has hardly improved?"

"I can't exactly call him cross. He has been very kind to me, you know."

"Kind--well. If you are contented, I am; but, considering that you are his natural heir, I
don't think he has done so very much. If he means to be kind, why does he bother me every other
month with a long account, of which the postage comes to heaven knows how much?"

"Ah! but, sir, I am not his heir."

"Not his heir!" said Sir Lionel, with more of sharpness in his tone than was at all usual with
him; with a little sharpness also in his eye, as George quickly observed. "Not his heir--who
is his heir then?"

"Ah, that I do not know. Some corporation, perhaps, or some hospital. All I know is, that I
am not. That he has told me quite plainly. And he was very right to do so," added George, after
a pause.

Sir Lionel repressed the exclamation of anger against his brother which was in his heart, and
had all but risen to his tongue. He had not been wandering for thirty years on foreign missions
for nothing. He must find out more of this lad's disposition and feelings before he spoke out
plainly before him what he thought. He had intended not only that his son should be the rich
uncle's heir, but the rich uncle's adopted child also; so that some portion of that vast wealth
might be made use of, certainly by George, perhaps even in some modest degree by himself, without
the unnecessary delay of waiting for his brother's death. It would be bad enough to wait, seeing
how probable it was that that brother might outlive himself. But now to be told not only that
his hopes in this respect were vain, but that the old miser had absolutely repudiated his connection
with his nephew! This was almost too much for his diplomatic equanimity. Almost, I say; for
in fact he did restrain himself.

"And did he say, George, in so many words that he meant to give you nothing?"

"Yes, very plainly--in so many words. And I told him as plainly, and in as many, that I wanted
nothing from him."

"Was that prudent, my boy?"

"It was the truth, sir. But I must tell you the whole. He offered me a loan of three thousand
pounds--"

"Well, you took that?"

"Indeed, no. He offered it on the condition that I should be an attorney."

"An attorney! and you with a double-first?"

"Ah, he does not much value double-firsts. Of course, I was not going to make myself an attorney."

"Of course not. But what is he doing about an allowance for you?"

"He has been very liberal. He has given me a hundred and fifty a year--"

"Yes; and sent me the bill of it--with great regularity."

The son did not remind the father that all regularity in the matter had ended there, and that
the bills so sent had never been paid; but he could not help thinking that in justice he might
do so.

"But that expense will soon be over, sir, as regards either you or him. The allowance will
be discontinued next year."

"What! he is going to stop even that school-boy's pittance?"

"Why not, sir? I have no claim on him. And as he has not forgotten to tell me so once or twice--"

"He was always a vulgar fellow," said Sir Lionel. "How he came to have such a spirit of trade
in his very blood, I can't conceive. God knows I have none of it."

"Nor I either, sir."

"Well, I hope not. But does he expect you to live upon air? This is bad news, George--very bad."

"Of course I have always intended to go into a profession. I have never looked at it in the
same light as you do. I have always intended to make my own way, and have no doubt that I shall
do so. I have quite made up my mind about it now."

"About what, George?"

"I shall go into orders, and take a college living."

"Orders!" said Sir Lionel; and he expressed more surprise and almost more disgust at this idea
than at that other one respecting the attorney scheme.

"Yes; I have been long doubting; but I think I have made up my mind."

"Do you mean that you wish to be a parson, and that after taking a double-first?"

"I don't see what the double-first has to do with it, sir. The only objection I have is the
system of the establishment. I do not like the established church."

"Then why go into it?" said Sir Lionel, not at all understanding the nature of his son's objection.

"I love our liturgy, and I like the ritual; but what we want is the voluntary principle. I
do not like to put myself in a position which I can, in fact, hold whether I do the duties
of it or no. Nor do I wish--"

"Well; I understand very little about all that; but, George, I had hoped something better for
you. Now, the army is a beggarly profession unless a man has a private fortune; but, upon my
word, I look on the church as the worst of the two. A man may be a bishop of course; but I
take it he has to eat a deal of dirt first."

"I don't mean to eat any dirt," said the son.

"Nor to be a bishop, perhaps," replied the father.

They were quite unable to understand each other on this subject. In Sir Lionel's view of the
matter, a profession was--a profession. The word was understood well enough throughout the
known world. It signified a calling by which a gentleman, not born to the inheritance of a
gentleman's allowance of good things, might ingeniously obtain the same by some exercise of
his abilities. The more of these good things that might be obtained, the better the profession;
the easier the labour also, the better the profession; the less restriction that might be laid
on a man in his pleasurable enjoyment of the world, the better the profession. This was Sir
Lionel's view of a profession, and it must be acknowledged that, though his view was commonplace,
it was also common sense; that he looked at the matter as a great many people look at it; and
that his ideas were at any rate sufficiently intelligible. But George Bertram's view was different,
and much less easy of explanation. He had an idea that in choosing a profession he should consider,
not so much how he should get the means of spending his life, but how he should in fact spend
it. He would have, in making this choice, to select the pursuit to which he would devote that
amount of power and that amount of life which God should allot to him. Fathers and mothers,
uncles and aunts, guardians and grandfathers, was not this a singular view for a young man
to take in looking at such a subject?

But in truth George was somewhat afflicted by a tête monté in this matter. I say afflicted,
because, having imagination and ideality to lead him to high views, he had not a sufficient
counterbalance in his firmness of character. If his father was too mundane, he was too transcendental.
As for instance, he approved at the present moment, in theory, of the life of a parish clergyman;
but could he have commenced the life to-morrow, he would at once have shrunk from its drudgery.

They did not understand each other; perceiving which, Sir Lionel gave up the subject. He was
determined not to make himself disagreeable to his son. He, at any rate, intended to make him
no allowance, to give him no fortune, and was aware, therefore, that he had no right to interfere
otherwise than as his advice might be asked. Nor indeed had he any wish to do so, if he could
only instil into the young man's mind a few--not precepts; precepts are harsh and disagreeable--a
few comfortable friendly hints as to the tremendous importance of the game which might be played
with Mr. George Bertram senior. If he could only do this pleasantly, and without offence to
his son, he would attempt nothing further.

He turned the conversation, and they talked agreeably on other matters--of Oxford, of the Wilkinsons,
of Harcourt, and by degrees also a little of uncle George.

"What sort of a house does my brother keep at Hadley--eh, George? Dull enough it used to be."

"Well; it is dull. Not that he is dull himself; I can always talk to my uncle when he will
talk to me."

"Sees no company, I suppose?"

"Not much."

"Never goes into society?"

"He dines out in London sometimes; and sometimes gives dinners too."

"What! at taverns?"

"Yes; at Blackwall, or Greenwich, or some of those places. I have been at his dinners, and
he never spares anything."

"He doesn't feel his years, then? He's not infirm? no rheumatism or anything of that sort--strong
on his legs, eh?"

"As strong as you are, sir."

"He's ten years my senior, you know."

"Yes, I know he is. He's not nearly so young a man as you are; but I really think he is as
strong. He's a wonderful man for his years, certainly."

"I'm delighted to hear it," said Sir Lionel. A keen judge of character, however, scrutinizing
the colonel's face closely, would not then have read much warm delight therein depicted.

"You rather like him on the whole, then--eh, George?"

"Well; I really think I do. I am sure I ought to like him. But--"

"Well, George; speak out. You and I need have no secrets."

"Secrets, no; I've no secret. My uncle has a way of saying too much himself about what he does
for one."

"Sends in the bill too often--eh, George?"

"If it is to be a bill, let him say so. I for one shall not blame him. There is no reason he
should give me anything. But situated as I have been at Oxford, it would have been almost absurd
in me to refuse his allowance--"

"Quite absurd."

"When he knew I was coming out to you, he made Pritchett--you know Pritchett?"

"And his handwriting--very well indeed."

"He made Pritchett put three hundred pounds to my credit; that was over and above my allowance.
Well, I did almost make up my mind to return that; as it is, I have not touched it, and I think
I shall repay it."

"For heaven's sake do no such thing. It would be an offence which he would never forgive."
Sir Lionel did say so much with something of parental energy in his tone and manner.

"Yes, sir; but to be told of it!"

"But he does not ask you to pay it him back again?"

"If he asks you;--is not that the same thing? But you hardly understand me, or him either."

"I think I understand him, George. I wonder whether they could give us a cup of coffee here?"

"Of course they can:" and George rang the bell.

"Perhaps so; but as far as my experience goes, wherever Englishmen frequent, there the coffee
is spoilt. Englishmen, as far as I can see, have a partiality for chicory, but none at all
for coffee."

"What I mean, sir, is this. Connected as I and my uncle are together, seeing that he has all
my life--" Here George paused a moment, for what he was about to say might have seemed to imply
a censure on his father.

"Paid your school-bills, and all that sort of thing," filled in Sir Lionel.

"Yes; as he has always done that, it seemed so natural that I should take what he gave me."

"Quite natural. You could have done nothing else."

"And now he speaks of it as though--as though;--of course I am under an obligation to him--a
very deep obligation. I understand that, and should not fret at it. But he thinks of it as
though I had been to blame in spending his money. When I see him next, he'll say something
of the same sort about that three hundred pounds. All I can do is to remind him that I did
not ask for it, and tell him that he may have it back again."

"Do nothing of the kind, George," said Sir Lionel, who regarded as little less than lunacy
on his son's part this declared intention to refund money to a rich man. "I know very well
what you mean. It is disagreeable to be reminded of money that you have spent."

"But I haven't spent it."

"Well, of money that you have received. But what can you do? It is not your fault. As you truly
say, it would be absurd and ungrateful too if you were to decline to take such trifles from
your own uncle; especially seeing what he has done for you. It is his manner, and that was
always disagreeable; especially in money matters." And so having given to his son the best
advice he had to offer, Sir Lionel sipped his coffee. "Very bad--very bad, indeed; it always
is at these English places. If I could have my own way, I would always keep out of English
haunts." In this respect Sir Lionel had had his own way during the greater portion of his life.

Before they parted for the evening, George communicated to his father the great fact of Miss
Todd's picnic as settled for the next day; and Sir Lionel expressed himself as willing to make
one of the party if Miss Todd could be induced to extend to him the light of her countenance.
On this head young Bertram, though his own acquaintance had certainly been short, thought that
he might take on himself to answer. People soon get intimate with each other at such places
as Jerusalem. When you have been up the Great Pyramid with a lady, the chances are you know
more about her than you would do from a year's acquaintance fostered by a dozen London parties;
and a journey up the Nile with a man may be considered quite equal to three years spent together
at the same college,--that is, if the fellow-travellers be young. After a certain age, men
never become really intimate, let their relations with each other be ever so close.

"There will be a Miss Baker there, sir, who says she knows you; and a Miss Waddington, a very
fine girl, who at any rate knows my name."

"What! Caroline Waddington?"

"Yes, Caroline Waddington."

"She is a ward of your uncle."

"So Miss Baker tells me; but I never heard my uncle mention them. Indeed, he never mentions
anything."

"It will be very desirable that you should know Miss Waddington. There is no saying what your
uncle may do with his money. Yes, I'll go to the picnic; only I hope the place is not distant."
So that matter was settled.

CHAPTER IX.

MISS TODD'S PICNIC.

That matter of obtaining permission for Sir Lionel to join the picnic was not found difficult
of arrangement. Good-looking, pleasant-mannered Sir Lionels, who bear the Queen's commission,
and have pleasant military ways with them, are welcome enough at such parties as these, even
though they be sixty years of age. When George mentioned the matter to Miss Todd, that lady
declared herself delighted. She had heard, she said, of the distinguished arrival at the hotel,
but she had been almost afraid to ask such a man as Sir Lionel to join their foolish little
party. Then Miss Baker, who in this affair bore the next authority to Miss Todd, declared that
she had intended to ask him, taking upon herself the freedom of an old acquaintance; and so
that matter was arranged.

The party was not to be a large one. There was Miss Todd, the compounder of it, a maiden lady,
fat, fair, and perhaps almost forty; a jolly jovial lady, intent on seeing the world, and indifferent
to many of its prejudices and formal restraints. "If she threw herself in Sir Lionel's way,
people would of course say that she wanted to marry him; but she did not care a straw what
people said; if she found Sir Lionel agreeable, she would throw herself in his way." So she
told Miss Baker--with perhaps more courage than the occasion required.

Then there was Mrs. and Miss Jones. Miss Jones was the young lady who lost her parasol on the
Mount of Offence, and so recklessly charged the Arab children of Siloam with the theft. Mr.
Jones was also in Jerusalem, but could not be persuaded to attend at Miss Todd's behest. He
was steadily engaged in antiquarian researches, being minded to bring out to the world some
startling new theory as to certain points in Bible chronology and topography. He always went
about the city with a trowel and a big set of tablets; and certain among the more enthusiastic
of the visitors to Jerusalem had put him down as an infidel.

There were also Mr. and Mrs. Hunter--a bridegroom and bride, now on their wedding trip; a somewhat
fashionable couple, who were both got up with considerable attention as to oriental costume.
Mrs. Hunter seemed to think a good deal about her trousers, and Mr. Hunter's mind was equally
taken up with the fact that he had ceased to wear any. They had a knowing way of putting on
their turbans, and carried their sashes gracefully; those, however, who had seen Mr. Hunter
roll himself into his sash, were of opinion that sooner or later he would suffer from vertigo
in his head. Miss Baker and her niece had fallen in with these people, and were considered
to be of the same party.

There was a clergyman to be there, one Mr. Cruse, the gentleman who had been so keenly annoyed
at the absence of potatoes from the dinner board. He was travelling in charge of a young gentleman
of fortune, a Mr. Pott, by whose fond parents the joint expense of the excursion was defrayed.
Mr. Cruse was a University man, of course; had been educated at Trinity College Cambridge,
and piqued himself much on being far removed from the dangers of Puseyism. He was a man not
of a happy frame of mind, and seemed to find that from Dan to Beersheba everything in truth
was barren. He was good-looking, unmarried, not without some talent, and seemed to receive
from the ladies there assembled more attention than his merits altogether deserved.

Mr. M'Gabbery had talked of not going, but had been over-persuaded by the good-natured Miss
Todd. He had become almost overwhelmed by the intensity of his feelings in regard to the sacred
associations of the place, since George Bertram had contrived to seat himself between Miss
Baker and Miss Waddington. Up to that moment, no one had been merrier than he. He had, so he
had flattered himself, altogether cut out Mr. Cruse in that special quarter, the good graces
namely of those two ladies, and had been prepared to take on his own shoulders all the hard
work of the picnic. But now things were altered with him; he had some doubts whether the sacredness
of the valley would not be desecrated by such a proceeding, and consulted Mr. Cruse on the
matter. Hitherto these gentlemen had not been close friends; but now they allied themselves
as against a common enemy. Mr. Cruse did not care much for associations, seemed indeed to think
that any special attention to sacred places savoured of idolatry, and professed himself willing
to eat his dinner on any of the hills or in any of the valleys round Jerusalem. Fortified with
so good an opinion, and relying on the excellence of his purpose, Mr. M'Gabbery gave way, and
renewed his offers of assistance to Miss Todd.

There was also Mr. Pott, Mr. Cruse's young charge, the son of a man largely engaged in the
linen trade; a youth against whom very little can be alleged. His time at present was chiefly
given up to waiting on Miss Jones; and, luckier in this respect than his tutor, Mr. Cruse,
he had no rival to interfere with his bliss.

Miss Baker and Miss Waddington made up the party. Of the former, little more need be said,
and that little should be all in her praise. She was a lady-like, soft-mannered, easy-tempered
woman, devoted to her niece, but not strongly addicted to personal exertions on her own part.
The fact that she was now at Jerusalem, so far away from her own comfortable drawing-room,
sufficiently proved that she was devoted to her niece.

And now for Caroline Waddington, our donna primissima. Her qualities, attributes, and virtues
must be given more in detail than those of her companions at the picnic, seeing that she is
destined to fill a prominent place upon our canvas.

At the time of which we are speaking, she might perhaps be twenty years of age; but her general
appearance, her figure, and especially the strong character marked in her face, would have
led one to suspect that she was older. She was certainly at that time a beautiful girl--very
beautiful, handsome in the outline of her face, graceful and dignified in her mien, nay, sometimes
almost majestic--a Juno rather than a Venus. But any Paris who might reject her, awed by the
rigour of her dignity, would know at the time that he was wrong in his judgment. She was tall,
but not so tall as to be unfeminine in her height. Her head stood nobly on her shoulders, giving
to her bust that ease and grace of which sculptors are so fond, and of which tight-laced stays
are so utterly subversive. Her hair was very dark--not black, but the darkest shade of brown,
and was worn in simple rolls on the side of her face. It was very long and very glossy, soft
as the richest silk, and gifted apparently with a delightful aptitude to keep itself in order.
No stray jagged ends would show themselves if by chance she removed her bonnet, nor did it
even look as though it had been prematurely crushed and required to be afresh puffed out by
some head-dresser's mechanism. She had the forehead of a Juno; white, broad, and straight;
not shining as are some foreheads, which seem as though an insufficient allowance of skin had
been vouchsafed for their covering. It was a forehead on which an angel might long to press
his lips--if angels have lips, and if, as we have been told, they do occasionally descend from
their starry heights to love the daughters of men.

Nor would an angel with a shade of human passion in his temperament have been contented with
her forehead. Her mouth had all the richness of youth, and the full enticing curves and ruby
colour of Anglo-Saxon beauty. Caroline Waddington was no pale, passionless goddess; her graces
and perfections were human, and in being so were the more dangerous to humanity. Her forehead
we have said, or should have said, was perfect; we dare not affirm quite so much in praise
of her mouth: there was sometimes a hardness there, not in the lines of the feature itself,
but in the expression which it conveyed, a want of tenderness, perhaps of trust, and too much
self-confidence, it may be, for a woman's character. The teeth within it, however, were never
excelled by any that ever graced the face of a woman.

Her nose was not quite Grecian; had it been so, her face might have been fairer, but it would
certainly have been less expressive. Nor could it be called retroussé, but it had the slightest
possible tendency in that direction; and the nostrils were more open, more ready to breathe
forth flashes of indignation than is ever the case with a truly Grecian nose.

The contour of her face was admirable: nothing could exceed in beauty the lines of her cheeks
or the shape and softness of her chin. Those who were fastidious in their requirements might
object to them that they bore no dimple; but after all, it is only prettiness that requires
a dimple: full-blown beauty wants no such adventitious aid.

But her eyes! Miss Waddington's eyes! The eyes are the poet's strongest fortress; it is for
their description that he most gathers up his forces and puts forth all his strength. What
of her eyes? Well, her eyes were bright enough, large enough, well set in her head. They were
clever eyes too--nay, honest eyes also, which is better. But they were not softly feminine
eyes. They never hid themselves beneath their soft fringes when too curiously looked into,
as a young girl at her window half hides herself behind her curtain. They were bold eyes, I
was going to say, but the word would signify too much in their dispraise; daring eyes, I would
rather say, courageous, expressive, never shrinking, sometimes also suspicious. They were fit
rather for a man than for so beautiful a girl as our Caroline Waddington.

But perhaps the most wonderful grace about her was her walk. "Vera incessu patuit Dea." Alas!
how few women can walk! how many are wilfully averse to attempting any such motion! They scuffle,
they trip, they trot, they amble, they waddle, they crawl, they drag themselves on painfully,
as though the flounces and furbelows around them were a burden too heavy for easy, graceful
motion; but, except in Spain, they rarely walk. In this respect our heroine was equal to an
Andalusian.

Such and so great were Miss Waddington's outward graces. Some attempt must also be made to
tell of those inner stores with which this gallant vessel was freighted; for, after all, the
outward bravery is not everything with a woman. It may be that a man in selecting his wife
rarely looks for much else;--for that in addition, of course, to money; but though he has looked
for little else, some other things do frequently force themselves on his attention soon after
the knot is tied; and as Caroline Waddington will appear in these pages as wife as well as
maid, as a man's companion as well as his plaything, it may be well to say now something as
to her fitness for such occupation.

We will say, then, that she was perhaps even more remarkable for her strength of mind than
for her beauty of person. At present, she was a girl of twenty, and hardly knew her own power;
but the time was to come when she should know it and should use it. She was possessed of a
stubborn, enduring, manly will; capable of conquering much, and not to be conquered easily.
She had a mind which, if rightly directed, might achieve great and good things, but of which
it might be predicted that it would certainly achieve something, and that if not directed for
good, it might not improbably direct itself for evil. It was impossible that she should ever
grow into a piece of domestic furniture, contented to adapt itself to such uses as a marital
tyrant might think fit to require of it. If destined to fall into good hands, she might become
a happy, loving wife; but it was quite as possible that she should be neither happy nor loving.

Like most other girls, she no doubt thought much of what might be her lot in love--thought
much of loving, though she had never yet loved. It has been said that her turn of mind was
manly; but it must not on that account be imagined that her wishes and aspirations were at
present other than feminine. Her heart and feeling's were those of a girl, at any rate as yet;
but her will and disposition were masculine in their firmness.

For one so young, she had great and dangerous faults of character--great, as being injurious
to her happiness; and dangerous, as being likely to grow with her years. Her faults were not
young faults. Though true herself, she was suspicious of others; though trustworthy, she was
not trustful: and what person who is not trustful ever remains trustworthy? Who can be fit
for confidence who cannot himself confide? She was imperious, too, when occasion offered itself
to her proud spirit. With her aunt, whom she loved, she was not so. Her she was content to
persuade, using a soft voice and a soft eye; but with those whom she could not persuade and
wished to rule, her voice was sometimes stern enough, and her eye far from soft.

She was a clever girl, capable of talking well, and possessed of more information than most
young ladies of the same age. She had been at an excellent school, if any schools are really
excellent for young ladies; but there was, nevertheless, something in her style of thought
hardly suitable to the softness of girlhood. She could speak of sacred things with a mocking
spirit, the mockery of philosophy rather than of youth; she had little or no enthusiasm, though
there was passion enough deep seated in her bosom; she suffered from no transcendentalism;
she saw nothing through a halo of poetic inspiration: among the various tints of her atmosphere
there was no rose colour; she preferred wit to poetry; and her smile was cynical rather than
joyous.

Now I have described my donna primissima, with hardly sufficient detail for my own satisfaction,
doubtless with far too much for yours, oh, my reader! It must be added, however, that she was
an orphan; that she lived entirely with her aunt, Miss Baker; that her father had been in early
life a sort of partner with Mr. George Bertram; that Mr. George Bertram was her guardian, though
he had hitherto taken but little trouble in looking after her, whatever trouble he may have
taken in looking after her money; and that she was possessed of a moderate fortune, say about
four thousand pounds.

A picnic undertaken from Jerusalem must in some respects be unlike any picnic elsewhere. Ladies
cannot be carried to it in carriages, because at Jerusalem there are no carriages; nor can
the provisions be conveyed even in carts, for at Jerusalem there are no carts. The stock of
comestibles was therefore packed in hampers on a camel's back, and sent off to the valley by
one route, whereas Miss Todd and her friends went on horseback and on donkey-back by another
and a longer road.

It may as well be mentioned that Miss Todd was a little ashamed of the magnitude to which her
undertaking had attained. Her original plan had merely been this:--that she and a few others
should ride through the valleys round the city, and send a basket of sandwiches to meet them
at some hungry point on the road. Now there was a cortège of eleven persons, exclusive of the
groom-boys, a boiled ham, sundry chickens, hard-boiled eggs, and champagne. Miss Todd was somewhat
ashamed of this. Here, in England, one would hardly inaugurate a picnic to Kensal Green, or
the Highgate Cemetery, nor select the tombs of our departed great ones as a shelter under which
to draw one's corks. But Miss Todd boasted of high spirits: when this little difficulty had
been first suggested to her by Mr. M'Gabbery, she had scoffed at it, and had enlarged her circle
in a spirit of mild bravado. Then chance had done more for her; and now she was doomed to preside
over a large party of revellers immediately over the ashes of James the Just.

None but Englishmen or Englishwomen do such things as this. To other people is wanting sufficient
pluck for such enterprises; is wanting also a certain mixture of fun, honest independence,
and bad taste. Let us go into some church on the Continent--in Italy, we will say--where the
walls of the churches still boast of the great works of the great masters.--Look at that man
standing on the very altar-step while the priest is saying his mass; look at his gray shooting-coat,
his thick shoes, his wide-awake hat stuck under one arm, and his stick under the other, while
he holds his opera-glass to his eyes. How he shuffles about to get the best point of sight,
quite indifferent as to clergy or laity! All that bell-ringing, incense-flinging, and breast-striking
is nothing to him: he has paid dearly to be brought thither; he has paid the guide who is kneeling
a little behind him; he is going to pay the sacristan who attends him; he is quite ready to
pay the priest himself, if the priest would only signify his wish that way; but he has come
there to see that fresco, and see it he will: respecting that he will soon know more than either
the priest or his worshippers. Perhaps some servant of the church, coming to him with submissive,
almost suppliant gesture, begs him to step back just for one moment. The lover of art glares
at him with insulted look, and hardly deigns to notice him further: he merely turns his eye
to his Murray, puts his hat down on the altar-step, and goes on studying his subject. All the
world--German, Frenchman, Italian, Spaniard--all men of all nations know that that ugly gray
shooting-coat must contain an Englishman. He cares for no one. If any one upsets him, he can
do much towards righting himself; and if more be wanted, has he not Lord Malmesbury or Lord
Clarendon at his back? But what would this Englishman say if his place of worship were disturbed
by some wandering Italian?

It was somewhat in this way with Miss Todd. She knew that what she was about to do was rather
absurd, but she had the blood of the Todds warm at her heart. The Todds were a people not easily
frightened, and Miss Todd was not going to disgrace her lineage. True, she had not intended
to feed twelve people over a Jewish sepulchre, but as the twelve people had assembled, looking
to her for food, she was not the woman to send them away fasting: so she gallantly led the
way through the gate of Jaffa, Sir Lionel attending her on a donkey.

When once out of the town, they turned sharp to the left. Their path lay through the valley
of Gihon, through the valley of Hinnom, down among those strange, open sepulchres, deeply excavated
in caves on the mountain-sides--sepulchres quite unlike those below in the valley of Jehoshaphat.
There they are all covered, each stone marking a grave; but here they lie in open catacombs--in
caves, at least, of which the entrance is open. The hardy stranger crawling in may lay his
hand within the cell--nay, may crawl up into it if he will--in which have mouldered the bones
of some former visitor to Jerusalem. For this, so saith tradition, is the field purchased with
the reward of iniquity. It was the burying-place for strangers, Aceldama, the field of blood.

But where be these bones now? for the catacombs are mostly empty. Mr. Pott, descending as far
as he could into the deepest of them, did at last bring forth a skull and two parts of a back-bone;
did present the former with much grace to Miss Jones, who, on beholding it, very nearly fell
from off her donkey.

"For shame, Pott," said Mr. Cruse. "How could you handle anything so disgusting? You are desecrating
the grave of some unfortunate Mussulman who has probably died within the last fifty years."
Mr. Cruse was always intent on showing that he believed none of the traditions of the country.

"It was quite dreadful of you, Mr. Pott," said Miss Jones; "quite dreadful! Indeed, I don't
know what you would not do. But I am quite sure he was never a Mahomedan."

"He looked like a Jew, didn't he?" said Pott.

"Oh! I did not see the face; but he was certainly either a Jew or a Christian. Only think.
Perhaps those remains have been there for nearly eighteen hundred years. Is it not wonderful?
Mamma, it was just here that I lost my parasol."

Sir Lionel had headed the cavalcade with Miss Todd, but George Bertram was true to his new
friends, Miss Baker and Miss Waddington. So also, for a time, were Mr. M'Gabbery and Mr. Cruse.
As the aunt and niece rode beside each other, a great part of this gallant attention fell upon
the former. Indeed, the easiest way of addressing the beauty was often found to be through
the beauty's aunt; and it may be doubted whether Mr. M'Gabbery would not have retreated long
since in despair, but for the scintillations of civility which fell to him from Miss Baker's
good-humour. He had had the good fortune of some previous days' journeying with them on horseback
through the desert, and had found that privilege gave him an inestimable advantage over Mr.
Cruse. Why should it not also suffice as regarded this new comer? He had held much commune
with himself on the subject that morning; had called himself to task for his own pusillanimity,
and had then fortified his courage with the old reflection about fair ladies and faint hearts--and
also with a glass of brandy. He was therefore disposed to make himself very unpleasant to poor
George if occasion should require.

"How delighted you must have been to see your father!" said Miss Baker, who, though her temper
would not permit her to be uncivil to Mr. M'Gabbery, would readily have dispensed with that
gentleman's attendance.

"Indeed, I was. I never saw him before, you know."

"Never saw him, your father, before, Mr. Bertram?" said Caroline. "Why, aunt Mary says that
I have seen him."

"I never saw him to remember him. One doesn't count one's acquaintance before seven or eight
years of age."

"Your memory must be very bad, then," said Mr. M'Gabbery, "or your childhood's love for your
father very slight. I perfectly remember the sweetness of my mother's caresses when I was but
three years old. There is nothing, Miss Waddington, to equal the sweetness of a mother's kisses."

"I never knew them," said she. "But I have found an aunt's do nearly as well."

"A grandmother's are not bad," said Bertram, looking very grave.

"I can never think of my mother without emotion," continued Mr. M'Gabbery. "I remember, as
though it were yesterday, when I first stood at her knee, with a picture-book on her lap before
me. It is the furthest point to which memory carries me--and the sweetest."

"I can remember back much before that," said George; "a great deal before that. Listen to this,
Miss Baker. My earliest impression was a hatred of dishonesty."

"I hope your views have not altered since," said Caroline.

"Very materially, I fear. But I must tell you about my memory. I was lying once in my cradle--"

"You don't mean to tell me you remember that?" said M'Gabbery.

"Perfectly, as you do the picture-book. Well, there I was lying, Miss Baker, with my little
eyes wide open. It is astonishing how much babies see, though people never calculate on their
having eyes at all. I was lying on my back, staring at the mantelpiece, on which my mother
had left her key-basket."

"You remember, of course, that it was her key-basket?" said Miss Waddington, with a smile that
made M'Gabbery clench his walking-stick in his hand.

"Perfectly; because she always kept her halfpence there also. Well, there was a nursery-girl
who used to be about me in those days. I distinctly saw her go to that basket, Miss Baker,
and take out a penny; and I then made up my mind that the first use I would make of my coming
speech should be to tell my mother. That, I think, is the furthest point to which my memory
carries me."

The ladies laughed heartily, but Mr. M'Gabbery frowned bitterly. "You must have dreamt it,"
said he.

"It is just possible," said George; "but I don't think it. Come, Miss Waddington, let us have
your earliest recollections."

"Ah! mine will not be interesting. They do not go back at all so far. I think they have reference
to bread and butter."

"I remember being very angry," said Miss Baker, "because papa prophesied that I should be an
old maid. It was very hard on me, for his prophecy no doubt brought about the fact."

"But the fact is no fact as yet," said Mr. M'Gabbery, with a smirking gallantry for which he
ought to have been kicked.

"I beg your pardon, Mr. M'Gabbery," said Miss Waddington. "It is quite an established fact.
My aunt will never have my consent to marry; and I am sure she will never dream of such a thing
without it."

"And so Mr. M'Gabbery's hopes in that direction are all at an end," said George, who was now
able to speak to Caroline without being heard by the others.

"I declare I think he has entertained some such idea, for he never leaves my aunt alone for
a minute. He has been very civil, very; but, Mr. Bertram, perhaps you know that a very civil
man may be a bore."

"He always is, I think. No man is really liked who is ever ready to run on messages and tie
up parcels. It is generally considered that a man knows his own value, and that, if he be willing
to do such work, such work is fit for him."

"You never do anything to oblige, then?"

"Very rarely; at least, not in the little domestic line. If one could have an opportunity of
picking a lady out of a fire, or saving her from the clutches of an Italian bravo, or getting
her a fortune of twenty thousand pounds, one would be inclined to do it. In such cases, there
would be no contempt mixed up with the lady's gratitude. But ladies are never really grateful
to a man for turning himself into a flunky."

"Ah! I like to be attended to all the same."

"Then there is Mr. M'Gabbery. Half a smile will keep him at your feet the whole day."

Mr. M'Gabbery and poor Miss Baker were now walking behind them, side by side. But his felicity
in this respect was not at all sufficient for that gentleman. In their long journey from Egypt,
he and Miss Waddington had always been within speaking distance; and who was the stranger of
to-day that was thus to come and separate them?

"Miss Waddington," he cried, "do you remember when your horse stumbled in the sand at El Arish?
Ah! what a pleasant day that was!"

"But you have not recalled it by a very pleasant incident. I was very nearly being thrown out
of my saddle."

"And how we had to wait for our dinner at Gaza till the camels came up?" And Mr. M'Gabbery,
urging on his horse, brought him up once more abreast with that of Miss Waddington.

"I shall soon have as great a horror of Gaza as Samson had," said she, sotto voce. "I almost
feel myself already in bonds under Philistian yoke whenever it is mentioned."

"Talking of recollections, that journey will certainly be among the sunniest of my life's memories,"
said Mr. M'Gabbery.

"It was sunny, certainly," said Miss Waddington; for the heat of the desert had been oppressive.

"Ah! and so sweet! That encamping in your own tent; preparing your own meals; having everything,
as it were, within yourself. Civilized life has nothing to offer equal to that. A person who
has only gone from city to city, or from steamboat to steamboat, knows nothing of oriental
life. Does he, Miss Waddington?" This was intended as a blow at Bertram, who had got to Jerusalem
without sleeping under canvas.

"What ignorant wretches the natives must be!" said George; "for they apparently sleep as regularly
in their own beds as any stupid Christian in England."

"I am not sure that even Mr. M'Gabbery would admire the tents so much if he had not some Christian
comforts along with him."

"His brandy-flask and dressing-case, for instance," said George.

"Yes; and his mattress and blankets," said Caroline.

"His potted meat and preserved soup."

"And especially his pot to boil his potatoes in."

"That was Mr. Cruse," said Mr. M'Gabbery, quite angrily. "For myself, I do not care a bit about
potatoes."

"So it was, Mr. M'Gabbery; and I beg your pardon. It is Mr. Cruse whose soul is among the potatoes.
But, if I remember right, it was you who were so angry when the milk ran out." Then Mr. M'Gabbery
again receded, and talked to Mrs. Jones about his associations.

"How thoroughly the Turks and Arabs beat us in point of costume," said Mrs. Hunter to Mr. Cruse.

"It will be very hard, at any rate, for any of them to beat you," said the tutor. "Since I
have been out here, I have seen no one adopt their ways with half as much grace as you do."

Mrs. Hunter looked down well pleased to her ancles, which were covered, and needed to be covered,
by no riding-habit. "I was not thinking so much of myself as of Mr. Hunter. Women, you know,
Mr. Cruse, are nothing in this land."

"Except when imported from Christendom, Mrs. Hunter."

"But I was speaking of gentlemen's toilets. Don't you think the Turkish dress very becoming?
I declare, I shall never bear to see Charles again in a coat and waistcoat and trousers."

"Nor he you in an ordinary silk gown, puffed out with crinoline."

"Well, I suppose we must live in the East altogether then. I am sure I should not object. I
know one thing--I shall never endure to put a bonnet on my head again. By-the-by, Mr. Cruse,
who is this Sir Lionel Bertram that has just come? Is he a baronet?"

"Oh dear, no; nothing of that sort, I imagine. I don't quite know who he is; but that young
man is his son."

"They say he's very clever, don't they?"

"He has that sort of boy's cleverness, I dare say, which goes towards taking a good degree."
Mr. Cruse himself had not shone very brightly at the University.

"Miss Waddington seems very much smitten with him; don't you think so?"

"Miss Waddington is a beautiful girl; and variable--as beautiful girls sometimes are."

"Mr. Cruse, don't be satirical."

"'Praise undeserved is satire in disguise,'" said Mr. Cruse, not quite understanding, himself,
why he made the quotation. But it did exceedingly well. Mrs. Hunter smiled sweetly on him,
said that he was a dangerous man, and that no one would take him to be a clergyman; upon which
Mr. Cruse begged that she would spare his character.

And now they had come to the fountain of Enrogel, and having dismounted from their steeds,
stood clustering about the low wall which surrounds the little pool of water.

"This, Sir Lionel," said Miss Todd, acting cicerone, "is the fountain of Enrogel, which you
know so well by name."

"Ah!" said Sir Lionel. "It seems rather dirty at present; doesn't it?"

"That is because the water is so low. When there has been much rain, there is quite a flood
here. Those little gardens and fields there are the most fertile spot round Jerusalem, because
there is so much irrigation here."

"That's where the Jerusalem artichokes are grown, I suppose."

"It is a singular fact, that though there are plenty of artichokes, that special plant is unknown,"
said Mr. M'Gabbery. "Do you remember, Miss Waddington--"

But Miss Waddington had craftily slipped round the corner of the wall, and was now admiring
Mrs. Hunter's costume, on the other side of the fountain.

"And that is the village of Siloam," continued Miss Todd, pointing to a range of cabins, some
of which seemed to be cut out of the rock on the hill-side, on her right hand as she looked
up towards the valley of Jehoshaphat. "And that is the pool of Siloam, Sir Lionel; we shall
go up there."

"Ah!" said Sir Lionel again.

"Is it not interesting?" said Miss Todd; and a smiling gleam of satisfaction spread itself
across her jovial ruddy face.

"Very," said Sir Lionel. "But don't you find it rather hot?"

"Yes, it is warm. But one gets accustomed to that. I do so like to find myself among these
names which used to torment me so when I was a child. I had all manner of mysterious ideas
about the pool of Bethesda and the beautiful gate, about the hill of Sion, and Gehenna, and
the brook Cedron. I had a sort of belief that these places were scattered wide over the unknown
deserts of Asia; and now, Sir Lionel, I am going to show them all to you in one day."

"Would they were scattered wider, that the pleasure might last the longer," said Sir Lionel,
taking off his hat as he bowed to Miss Todd, but putting it on again very quickly, as he felt
the heat.

"Yes; but the mystery, the beautiful mystery, is all gone," said Miss Jones. "I shall never
feel again about these places as I used to do."

"Nor I either, I hope," said Mr. Pott. "I always used to catch it for scripture geography."

"Yes, the mystery of your childhood will be gone, Miss Jones," said Mr. M'Gabbery, who, in
his present state of hopelessness as regarded Miss Waddington, was ill-naturedly interfering
with young Pott. "The mystery of your childhood will be gone; but another mystery, a more matured
mystery, will be created in your imagination. Your associations will henceforth bear a richer
tint."

"I don't know that," said Miss Jones, who did not approve of being interfered with a bit better
than did Mr. Pott.

And then they remounted, and the cavalcade moved on. They turned up the rising ground towards
the city wall, and leaving on the left the gardens in which Jerusalem artichokes did not grow,
they came to the pool of Siloam. Here most of them again descended, and climbed down to the
water, which bursts out from its underground channel into a cool, but damp and somewhat dirty
ravine.

"You are my guide, Miss Todd, in everything," said Sir Lionel. "Is it necessary that I should
study scripture geography down in that hole? If you bid me, I'll do it."

"Well, Sir Lionel, I'll let you off; the more especially as I have been down there myself already,
and got dreadfully draggled in doing so. Oh! I declare, there is Miss Waddington in the water."

Miss Waddington was in the water. Not in such a manner, gentlest of readers, as to occasion
the slightest shock to your susceptible nerves; but in such a degree as to be very disagreeable
to her boots, and the cause of infinite damage to her stockings. George Bertram had handed
her down, and when in the act of turning round to give similar assistance to some other adventurous
lady, had left her alone on the slippery stones. Of course any young lady would take advantage
of such an unguarded moment to get into some catastrophe.

Alas! and again alas! Unfortunately, Mr. M'Gabbery had been the first to descend to the pool.
He had calculated, cunningly enough, that in being there, seeing that the space was not very
large, the duty must fall to his lot of receiving into his arms any such ladies as chose to
come down--Miss Waddington, who was known to be very adventurous, among the number. He was
no sooner there, however, than George Bertram jumped in almost upon him, and hitherto he had
not had an opportunity of touching Miss Waddington's glove. But now it seemed that fortune
was to reward him.

"Good heavens!" cried Mr. M'Gabbery, as he dashed boldly into the flood, thereby splashing
the water well up into Caroline's face. There was not much occasion for this display, for the
gentleman could have assisted the lady quite as effectually without even wetting his toes;
but common misfortunes do create common sympathies--or at least they should do. Would it not
be natural that Miss Waddington and Mr. M'Gabbery, when both wet through up to their knees,
should hang together in their sufferings, make common cause of it, talk each of what the other
felt and understood so well? Nay, might it not be probable that, in obedience to the behests
of some wise senior, they might be sent back to the city together;--understand, O reader, that
the wall of Jerusalem had never yet been distant from them half a mile--back, we say, together
to get dry stockings? To achieve such an object, Mr. M'Gabbery would have plunged bodily beneath
the wave--had the wave been deep enough to receive his body. As it was, it only just came over
the tops of his boots, filling them comfortably with water.

"Oh, Mr. M'Gabbery!" exclaimed the ungrateful lady. "Now you have drowned me altogether."

"I never saw anything so awkward in my life," said M'Gabbery, looking up at Bertram with a
glance that should have frozen his blood.

"Nor I, either," said Caroline.

"What had you better do? Pray give me your hand, Miss Waddington. To leave you in such a manner
as that! We managed better in the desert, did we not, Miss Waddington? You really must go back
to Jerusalem for dry shoes and stockings; you really must. Where is Miss Baker? Give me your
hand, Miss Waddington; both hands, you had better."

So much said Mr. M'Gabbery while struggling in the pool of Siloam. But in the meantime, Miss
Waddington, turning quickly round, had put out her hand to Bertram, who was standing--and I
regret to say all but laughing--on the rock above her; and before Mr. M'Gabbery's eloquence
was over, she was safely landed among her friends.

"Oh, Mr. Bertram," said she; "you are a horrid man. I'll never forgive you. Had I trusted myself
to poor Mr. M'Gabbery, I should have been dry-footed at this moment." And she shook the water
from off her dress, making a damp circle around herself as a Newfoundland dog sometimes does.
"If I served you right, I should make you go to the hotel for a pair of shoes."

"Do, Miss Waddington; make him go," said Sir Lionel. "If he doesn't, I'll go myself."

"I shall be delighted," said Mr. Cruse; "my donkey is very quick;" and the clergyman mounted
ready to start. "Only I shouldn't know where to find the things."

"No, Mr. Cruse; and I couldn't tell you. Besides, there is nothing I like so much as wet feet,--except
wet strings to my hat, for which latter I have to thank Mr. M'Gabbery."

"I will go, of course," said M'Gabbery, emerging slowly from the pool. "Of course it is for
me to go; I shall be glad of an opportunity of getting dry boots myself."

"I am so sorry you have got wet," said the beauty.

"Oh! it's nothing; I like it. I was not going to see you in the water without coming to you.
Pray tell me what I shall fetch. I know all your boxes so well, you know, so I can have no
difficulty. Will they be in the one with C. W. on it in brass nails? That was the one which
fell off the camel near the Temple of Dagon." Poor Mr. M'Gabbery! that ride through the desert
was an oasis in his otherwise somewhat barren life, never to be forgotten.

"I am the sinner, Miss Waddington," said George, at last, "and on me let the punishment fall.
I will go back to Jerusalem; and in order that you may suffer no inconvenience, I will bring
hither all your boxes and all your trunks on the backs of a score of Arab porters."

"You know you intend to do no such thing," said she. "You have already told me your ideas as
to waiting upon young ladies."

There was, however, at last some whispering between Miss Baker and her niece, in which Mr.
M'Gabbery vainly attempted to join, and the matter ended in one of the grooms being sent into
the town, laden with a bunch of keys and a written message for Miss Baker's servant. Before
dinner-time, Miss Waddington had comfortably changed her stockings in the upper story of the
tomb of St. James, and Mr. M'Gabbery--but Mr. M'Gabbery's wet feet did not receive the attention
which they deserved.

Passing on from the pool of Siloam, they came to a water-course at which there was being conducted
a considerable washing of clothes. The washerwomen--the term is used as being generic to the
trade and not to the sex, for some of the performers were men--were divided into two classes,
who worked separately; not so separately but what they talked together, and were on friendly
terms; but still there was a division. The upper washerwomen, among whom the men were at work,
were Mahomedans; the lower set were Jewesses. As to the men, but little observation was made,
except that they seemed expert enough, dabbing their clothes, rubbing in the soap, and then
rinsing, very much in the manner of Christians. But it was impossible not to look at the women.
The female followers of the Prophet had, as they always have, some pretence of a veil for their
face. In the present instance, they held in their teeth a dirty blue calico rag, which passed
over their heads, acting also as a shawl. By this contrivance, intended only to last while
the Christians were there, they concealed one side of the face and the chin. No one could behold
them without wishing that the eclipse had been total. No epithet commonly applied to women
in this country could adequately describe their want of comeliness. They kept their faces to
their work, and except that they held their rags between their teeth, they gave no sign of
knowing that strangers were standing by them.

It was different with the Jewesses. When they were stared at, they stood up boldly and stared
again;--and well worth looking at they were. There were three or four of them, young women
all, though already mothers, for their children were playing on the grass behind them. Each
bore on her head that moon-shaped head-dress which is there the symbol of a Jewess; and no
more graceful tiara can a woman wear. It was wonderful that the same land should produce women
so different as were these close neighbours. The Mahomedans were ape-like; but the Jewesses
were glorious specimens of feminine creation. They were somewhat too bold, perhaps; there was
too much daring in their eyes, as, with their naked shoulders and bosoms nearly bare, they
met the eyes of the men that were looking at them. But there was nothing immodest in their
audacity; it was defiant rather, and scornful.

There was one among them, a girl, perhaps of eighteen, who might have been a sculptor's model,
not only for form and figure, but for the expression of her countenance and the beautiful turn
of her head and shoulders. She was very unlike the Jewess that is ordinarily pictured to us.
She had no beaky nose, no thin face, no sharp, small, black, bright eyes; she was fair, as
Esther was fair; her forehead and face were broad, her eyes large and open; yet she was a Jewess,
plainly a Jewess; such a Jewess as are many still to be seen--in Palestine, at least, if not
elsewhere.

When they came upon her, she was pressing the dripping water from some large piece of linen,
a sheet probably. In doing this she had cunningly placed one end firmly under her foot upon
a stone, and then, with her hands raised high above her head, she twisted and retwisted it
till the water oozing out fell in heavy drops round her feet. Her arms and neck were bare,
as were also her feet; and it was clear that she put forth to her work as much strength as
usually falls to the lot of a woman in any country.

She was very fair to look at, but there was about her no feminine softness. Do not laugh, reader,
unless you have already stopped to think, and, thinking, have decided that a girl of eighteen,
being a washerwoman, must therefore be without feminine softness. I would not myself say that
it is so. But here at least there was no feminine softness, no tenderness in the eye, no young
shame at being gazed at. She paused for a moment in her work, and gave back to them all the
look they gave her; and then, as though they were beneath her notice, she strained once more
at her task, and so dropped the linen to the ground.

"If I knew how to set about the bargain, I would take that woman home with me, and mould her
to be my wife." Such was George Bertram's outspoken enthusiasm.

"Moulded wives never answer well," said Sir Lionel.

"I think he would prefer one that had been dipped," whispered Miss Todd to the colonel; but
her allusion to Miss Waddington's little accident on the water, and to the chandler's wares,
was not thoroughly appreciated.

It has been said that the hampers were to be sent to the tomb of Zachariah; but they agreed
to dine immediately opposite to that of St. James the Less. This is situated in the middle
of the valley of Jehoshaphat, in the centre of myriads of Jewish tombs, directly opposite to
the wall built with those huge temple stones, not many feet over the then dry water-course
of the brook Cedron. Such was the spot chosen by Miss Todd for her cold chickens and champagne.

Of course they wandered about a little in pairs and trios while these dainties were being prepared
for them. This St. James's tomb is a little temple built on the side of the rock, singularly
graceful. The front towards the city is adorned with two or three Roman pillars, bearing, if
I remember rightly, plain capitals. There is, I think, no pediment above them, or any other
adjunct of architectural pretension; but the pillars themselves, so unlike anything else there,
so unlike any other sepulchral monument that I, at least, have seen, make the tomb very remarkable.
That it was built for a tomb is, I suppose, not to be doubted; though for whose ashes it was
in fact erected may perhaps be questioned. I am not aware that any claimant has been named
as a rival to St. James.

The most conspicuous of these monuments is that which tradition allots to Absalom, close to
this other which we have just described. It consists of a solid square erection, bearing what,
for want of a better name, I must call a spire, with curved sides, the sides curving inwards
as they fall from the apex to the base. This spiral roof, too low and dumpy to be properly
called a spire, is very strong, built with stones laid in circles flat on each other, the circles
becoming smaller as they rise towards the top. Why Absalom should have had such a tomb, who
can say? That his bones were buried there, the Jews at least believe; for Jewish fathers, as
they walk by with their children, bid their boys each cast a stone there to mark their displeasure
at the child who rebelled against his parent. It is now nearly full of such stones.

While Miss Waddington was arranging her toilet within the tomb of St. James, her admirers below
were not making themselves agreeable to each other. "It was the awkwardest thing I ever saw,"
said Mr. Cruse to Mr. M'Gabbery, in a low tone, but not so low but what Bertram was intended
to hear it.

"Very," said Mr. M'Gabbery. "Some men are awkward by nature;--seem, indeed, as though they
were never intended for ladies' society."

"And then to do nothing but laugh at the mischief he had caused. That may be the way at Oxford;
but we used to flatter ourselves at Cambridge that we had more politeness."

"Cambridge!" said Bertram, turning round and speaking with the most courteous tone he could
command. "Were you at Cambridge? I thought I had understood that you were educated at St. Bees."
Mr. Cruse had been at St. Bees, but had afterwards gone to the University.

"I was a scholar at St. John's, sir," replied Mr. Cruse, with much dignity. "M'Gabbery, shall
we take a stroll across the valley till the ladies are ready?" And so, having sufficiently
shown their contempt for the awkward Oxonian, they moved away.

"Two very nice fellows, are they not?" said Bertram to Mr. Hunter. "It's a stroke of good fortune
to fall in with such men as that at such a place as this."

"They're very well in their own way," said Mr. Hunter, who was lying on the grass, and flattering
himself that he looked more Turkish than any Turk he had yet seen. "But they don't seem to
me to be quite at home here in the East. Few Englishman in fact are. Cruse is always wanting
boiled vegetables, and M'Gabbery can't eat without a regular knife and fork. Give me a pilau
and a bit of bread, and I can make a capital dinner without anything to help me but my own
fingers."

"Cruse isn't a bad kind of coach," said young Pott. "He never interferes with a fellow. His
only fault is that he's so spoony about women."

"They're gentlemanlike men," said Sir Lionel; "very. One can't expect, you know, that every
one should set the Thames on fire."

"Cruse won't do that, at any rate," put in Mr. Pott.

"But Mr. M'Gabbery perhaps may," suggested George. "At any rate, he made a little blaze just
now at the brook above." And then the ladies came down, and the business of the day commenced;
seeing which, the two injured ones returned to their posts.

"I am very fond of a picnic," said Sir Lionel, as, seated on a corner of a tombstone, he stretched
out his glass towards Miss Todd, who had insisted on being his cupbearer for the occasion;
"excessively fond. I mean the eating and drinking part, of course. There is only one thing
I like better; and that is having my dinner under a roof, upon a table, and with a chair to
sit on."

"Oh, you ungrateful man; after all that I am doing for you!"

"I spoke of picnics generally, Miss Todd. Could I always have my nectar filled to me by a goddess,
I would be content with no room, but expect to recline on a cloud, and have thunderbolts ready
at my right hand."

"What a beautiful Jupiter your father would make, Mr. Bertram!"

"Yes; and what a happy king of gods with such a Juno as you, Miss Todd!"

"Ha! ha! ha! oh dear, no. I pretend to no rôle higher than that of Hebe. Mr. M'Gabbery, may
I thank you for a slice of ham? I declare, these tombs are very nice tables, are they not?
Only, I suppose it's very improper. Mr. Cruse, I'm so sorry that we have no potatoes; but there
is salad, I know."

"Talking of chairs," said Mr. Hunter, "after all there has been no seat yet invented by man
equal to a divan, either for ease, dignity, or grace." Mr. Hunter had long been practising
to sit cross-legged, and was now attempting it on on the grass for the first time in public.
It had at any rate this inconvenient effect, that he was perfectly useless; for, when once
seated, he could neither help himself nor any one else.

"The cigar divan is a very nice lounge when one has nothing better to do," suggested Mr. Pott.
"They have capital coffee there."

"A divan and a sofa are much the same, I suppose," said George.

But to this Mr. Hunter demurred, and explained at some length what were the true essential
qualities of a real Turkish divan: long before he had finished, however, George had got up
to get a clean plate for Miss Waddington, and in sitting down had turned his back upon the
Turk. The unfortunate Turk could not revenge himself, as in his present position any motion
was very difficult to him.

Picnic dinners are much the same in all parts of the world, and chickens and salad are devoured
at Jerusalem very much in the same way as they are at other places--except, indeed, by a few
such proficients in Turkish manners as Mr. Hunter. The little Arab children stood around them,
expectant of scraps, as I have seen children do also in England; and the conversation, which
was dull enough at the commencement of the feast, became more animated when a few corks had
flown. As the afternoon wore on, Mr. M'Gabbery became almost bellicose under the continual
indifference of his lady-love; and had it not been for the better sense of our hero--such better
sense may be expected from gentlemen who are successful--something very like a quarrel would
have taken place absolutely in the presence of Miss Todd.

Perhaps Miss Waddington was not free from all blame in the matter. It would be unjust to accuse
her of flirting--of flirting, at least, in the objectionable sense of the word. It was not
in her nature to flirt. But it was in her nature to please herself without thinking much of
the manner in which she did it, and it was in her nature also to be indifferent as to what
others thought of her. Though she had never before known George Bertram, there was between
them that sort of family knowledge of each other which justified a greater intimacy than between
actual strangers. Then, too, he pleased her, while Mr. M'Gabbery only bored. She had not yet
thought enough about the world's inhabitants to have recognized and adjudicated on the difference
between those who talk pleasantly and those who do not; but she felt that she was amused by
this young double-first Oxonian, and she had no idea of giving up amusement when it came in
her way. Of such amusement, she had hitherto known but little. Miss Baker herself was, perhaps,
rather dull. Miss Baker's friends at Littlebath were not very bright; but Caroline had never
in her heart accused them of being other than amusing. It is only by knowing his contrast that
we recognize a bore when we meet him. It was in this manner that she now began to ascertain
that Mr. M'Gabbery certainly had bored her. Ascertaining it, she threw him off at once--perhaps
without sufficient compunction.

"I'll cut that cock's comb before I have done with him," said M'Gabbery to his friend Mr. Cruse,
as they rode up towards St. Stephen's gate together, the rest of the cavalcade following them.
Sir Lionel had suggested to Miss Todd that they might as well return, somewhat early though
it was, seeing that there was cause why that feast of reason and that flow of soul should no
longer be continued by them round the yet only half-emptied hampers. So the ladies had climbed
up into the tomb and there adjusted their hats, and the gentlemen had seen to the steeds; and
the forks had been packed up; and when Mr. M'Gabbery made the state of his mind known to Mr.
Cruse, they were on their way back to Jerusalem, close to the garden of Gethsemane.

"I'll cut that young cock's comb yet before I have done with him," repeated Mr. M'Gabbery.

Now Mr. Cruse, as being a clergyman, was of course not a fighting man. "I shouldn't take any
notice of him," said he; "nor, indeed, of her either; I do not think she is worth it."

"Oh, it isn't about that," said M'Gabbery. "They were two women together, and I therefore was
inclined to show them some attention. You know how those things go on. From one thing to another
it has come to this, that they have depended on me for everything for the last three or four
weeks."

"You haven't paid any money for them, have you?"

"Well, no; I can't exactly say that I have paid money for them. That is to say, they have paid
their own bills, and I have not lent them anything. But I dare say you know that a man never
travels with ladies in that free and easy way without feeling it in his pocket. One is apt
to do twenty things for them which one wouldn't do for oneself; nor they for themselves if
they had to pay the piper."

Now here a very useful moral may be deduced. Ladies, take care how you permit yourselves to
fall into intimacies with unknown gentlemen on your travels. It is not pleasant to be spoken
of as this man was speaking of Miss Baker and her niece. The truth was, that a more punctilious
person in her money dealings than Miss Baker never carried a purse. She had not allowed Mr.
M'Gabbery so much as to lay out on her behalf a single piastre for oranges on the road. Nor
had he been their sole companion on their journey through the desert. They had come to Jerusalem
with a gentleman and his wife: Mr. M'Gabbery had been kindly allowed to join them.

"Well, if I were you, I should show them a cold shoulder," said Mr. Cruse; "and as to that
intolerable puppy, I should take no further notice of him, except by cutting him dead."

Mr. M'Gabbery at last promised to follow his friend's advice, and so Miss Todd's picnic came
to an end without bloodshed.

CHAPTER X.

THE EFFECTS OF MISS TODD'S PICNIC.

Sir Lionel did not participate violently either in his son's disgust at the falsehood of that
holy sepulchre church, nor in his enthusiasm as to the Mount of Olives. In the former, he walked
about as he had done in many other foreign churches, looked a little to the right and a little
to the left, observed that the roof seemed to be rather out of order, declined entering the
sanctum sanctorum, and then asked whether there was anything more to be seen. He did not care,
he said, about going upstairs into the gallery; and when George suggested that he should descend
into the Armenian chapel, he observed that it appeared to be very dark and very crowded. He
looked at the Turkish janitors without dismay, and could not at all understand why George should
not approve of them.

He was equally cold and equally complaisant on the Mount of Olives. He would willingly have
avoided the ascent could he have done so without displeasing his son; but George made a point
of it. A donkey was therefore got for him, and he rode up.

"Ah! yes," said he, "a very clear view of the city; oh, that was Solomon's temple, was it?
And now they have a mosque there, have they? Ah! perhaps the Brahmins will have a turn at it
before the world is done. It's a barren sort of hill after all, is it not?"

And then George tried very much in vain to make his father understand why he wished to go into
the church.

"By-the-by," said Sir Lionel--they were then sitting exactly on the spot where George had placed
himself before, when he made that grand resolve to give up everything belonging to this world
for the sake of being one of Christ's shepherds--"by-the-by, George, for heaven's sake don't
throw your uncle over in choosing a profession. I certainly should be sorry to see you become
an attorney."

"I have never thought of it for a moment," said George.

"Because, with your abilities, and at any rate with your chance of money, I think you would
be very much thrown away; but, considering his circumstances and yours, were I you, I would
really submit almost to anything."

"I will not at any rate submit to that," said George, not very well able to reconcile his father's
tone to the spot on which they were sitting.

"Well, it's your own affair, my boy. I have no right to interfere, and shall not attempt to
do so; but of course I must be anxious. If you did go into the church, I suppose he'd buy a
living for you?"

"Certainly not; I should take a college living."

"At your age any that you could get would be very small. Ah, George! if I could only put an
old head upon young shoulders, what a hand of cards you would have to play! That old man could
leave you half a million of money!"

This was certainly not the object with which the son had ascended the mount, and he did not
use much eloquence to induce his father to remain long in the place. Sir Lionel got again on
his donkey, and they returned to Jerusalem; nor did George ever again talk to him about the
Mount of Olives.

And he was not very much more successful with another friend into whose mind he endeavoured
to inculcate his own high feelings. He got Miss Baker up to his favourite seat, and with her
Miss Waddington; and then, before he had left Jerusalem, he succeeded in inducing the younger
lady to ramble thither with him alone.

"I do not know that I think so highly of the church as you do," said Caroline. "As far as I
have seen them, I cannot find that clergymen are more holy than other men; and yet surely they
ought to be so."

"At any rate, there is more scope for holiness if a man have it in him to be holy. The heart
of a clergyman is more likely to be softened than that of a barrister or an attorney."

"I don't exactly know what you mean by heart-softening, Mr. Bertram."

"I mean--" said Bertram, and then he paused; he was not quite able, with the words at his command,
to explain to this girl what it was that he did mean, nor was he sure that she would appreciate
him if he did do so; and, fond as he still was of his idea of a holy life, perhaps at this
moment he was fonder still of her.

"I think that a man should do the best he can for himself in a profession. You have a noble
position within your grasp, and if I were you, I certainly would not bury myself in a country
parsonage."

What this girl of twenty said to him had much more weight than the time-honoured precepts of
his father; and yet both, doubtless, had their weight. Each blow told somewhat; and the seed
too had been sown upon very stony ground.

They sat there some three or four minutes in silence. Bertram was looking over to Mount Moriah,
imaging to himself the spot where the tables of the money-changers had been overturned, while
Miss Waddington was gazing at the setting sun. She had an eye to see material beauty, and a
taste to love it; but it was not given to her to look back and feel those things as to which
her lover would fain have spoken to her. The temple in which Jesus had taught was nothing to her.

Yes, he was her lover now, though he had never spoken to her of love, had never acknowledged
to himself that he did love her--as so few men ever do acknowledge till the words that they
have said make it necessary that they should ask themselves whether those words are true. They
sat there for some minutes in silence, but not as lovers sit. The distance between them was
safe and respectful. Bertram was stretched upon the ground, with his eyes fixed, not upon her,
but on the city opposite; and she sat demurely on a rock, shading herself with her parasol.

"I suppose nothing would induce you to marry a clergyman?" said he at last.

"Why should you suppose that, Mr. Bertram?"

"At any rate, not the parson of a country parish. I am led to suppose it by what you said to
me yourself just now."

"I was speaking of you, and not of myself. I say that you have a noble career open to you,
and I do not look on the ordinary life of a country parson as a noble career. For myself, I
do not see any nobility in store. I do not know that there is any fate more probable for myself
than that of becoming a respectable vicaress."

"And why may not a vicar's career be noble? Is it not as noble to have to deal with the soul
as with the body?"

"I judge by what I see. They are generally fond of eating, very cautious about their money,
untidy in their own houses, and apt to go to sleep after dinner."

George turned upon the grass, and for a moment or two ceased to look across into the city.
He had not strength of character to laugh at her description and yet to be unmoved by it. He
must either resent what she said, or laugh and be ruled by it. He must either tell her that
she knew nothing of a clergyman's dearest hopes, or else he must yield to the contempt which
her words implied.

"And could you love, honour, and obey such a man as that, yourself, Miss Waddington?" he said
at last.

"I suppose such men do have wives who love, honour, and obey them; either who do or do not.
I dare say I should do much the same as others."

"You speak of my future, Miss Waddington, as though it were a subject of interest; but you
seem to think nothing of your own."

"It is useless for a woman to think of her future; she can do so little towards planning it,
or bringing about her plans. Besides, I have no right to count on myself as anything out of
the ordinary run of women; I have taken no double-first degree in anything."

"A double-first is no sign of a true heart or true spirit. Many a man born to grovel has taken
a double-first."

"I don't perhaps know what you mean by grovelling, Mr. Bertram. I don't like grovellers myself.
I like men who can keep their heads up--who, once having them above the water, will never allow
them to sink. Some men in every age do win distinction and wealth and high place. These are
not grovellers. If I were you I would be one of them."

"You would not become a clergyman?"

"Certainly not; no more than I would be a shoemaker."

"Miss Waddington!"

"Well; and what of Miss Waddington? Look at the clergymen that you know; do they never grovel?
You know Mr. Wilkinson; he is an excellent man, I am sure, but is he conspicuous for highmindedness,
for truth and spirit?" It must be remembered that the elder Mr. Wilkinson was at this time
still living. "Are they generally men of wide views and enlightened principles? I do not mean
to liken them to shoemakers; but were I you, I should think of the one business as soon as
the other."

"And in my place, what profession would you choose?"

"Ah, that I cannot say. I do not know your circumstances."

"I must earn my bread, like other sons of Adam."

"Well, earn it then in such manner that the eyes of the world shall be upon you; that men and
women shall talk of you, and newspapers have your name in their columns. Whatever your profession,
let it be a wakeful one; not one that you can follow half asleep."

Again he paused for awhile, and again sat looking at the rock of the temple. Still he thought
of the tables of the money-changers, and the insufficiency of him who had given as much as
half to the poor. But even while so thinking, he was tempted to give less than half himself,
to set up on his own account a money-changing table in his own temple. He would fain have worshipped
at the two shrines together had he been able. But he was not able; so he fell down before that
of Mammon.

"You can talk to me in this way, urge me to be ambitious, and yet confess that you could give
yourself to one of those drones of whom you speak with such scorn."

"I speak of no one with scorn; and I am not urging you; and at present am not talking of giving
myself to any one. You ask as to the possibility of my ever marrying a clergyman; I say that
it is very possible that I may do so some day."

"Miss Waddington," said George; and now he had turned his face absolutely from the city, and
was looking upwards to the hill; upwards, full into the beauty of her countenance. "Miss Waddington!"

"Well, Mr. Bertram?"

"You speak of me as though I were a being high in the scale of humanity--"

"And so I think of you."

"Listen for a moment--and of yourself as one comparatively low."

"No, no, not low; I have too much pride for that; much lower than you, certainly, for I have
given no proofs of genius."

"Well--lower than me. That is what you have said, and I do not believe that you would say so
falsely. You would not descend to flatter me?"

"Certainly not; but--"

"Believe equally of me that I would not flatter you. I have told you no falsehood as yet, and
I have a right to claim your belief. As you look on me, so do I on you. I look up to you as
one whose destiny must be high. To me there is that about you which forbids me to think that
your path in the world can ever be other than conspicuous. Your husband, at least, will have
to live before the world."

"I shall not have the slightest objection to his doing so; but that, I think, will depend a
great deal more on him than on me."

Bertram was very anxious to say something which might tend towards the commingling of his destiny
with hers. He was hardly yet prepared to swear that he loved her, and to ask her in good set
terms to be his wife. But he did not like to leave her without learning whether he had at all
touched her heart. He was fully sure now that his own was not whole.

"Come, Mr. Bertram," said she; "look at the sun, how nearly it is gone. And you know we have
no twilight here. Let us go down; my aunt will think that we are lost."

"One minute, Miss Waddington; one minute, and then we will go. Miss Waddington--if you care
enough for me to bid me take up any profession, follow any pursuit, I will obey you. You shall
choose for me, if you will."

She blushed, not deeply, but with a colour sufficiently heightened to make it visible to him,
and with a tingling warmth which made her conscious of it herself. She would have given much
to keep her countenance, and yet the blush became her greatly. It took away from the premature
firmness of her womanly look, and gave her for the moment something of the weakness natural
to her age.

"You know that is nonsense: on such a subject you must of course choose for yourself."

Bertram was standing in the path before her, and she could not well go on till he had made
way for her. "No," said he; "thinking as I do of you, feeling as I do regarding you, it is
not nonsense. It would be absolute nonsense if I said so to your aunt, or to Mrs. Hunter, or
to Miss Jones. I could not be guided by a person who was indifferent to me. But in this matter
I will be guided by you if you will consent to guide me."

"Of course I shall do no such thing."

"You have no personal wish, then, for my welfare?"

"Yes, I have. Your uncle is my guardian, and I may therefore be allowed to look upon you as
a friend of a longer standing than merely of yesterday. I do regard you as a friend, and shall
be glad of your success." Here she paused, and they walked on a few steps together in silence;
and then she added, becoming still redder as she did so, but now managing to hide her face
from her companion, "Were I to answer you in the way that you pretend to wish, I should affect
either less friendship than I feel, or much more."

"Much more!" said Bertram, with a shade of despondency in his tone.

"Yes, much more, Mr. Bertram. Why, what would you have me say?"

"Ah me! I hardly know. Nothing--nothing--I would have you say nothing. You are quite right
to say nothing." And then he walked on again for a hundred yards in silence. "Nothing, Miss
Waddington, nothing; unless, indeed--"

"Mr. Bertram;" and as she spoke she put out her hand and gently touched his arm. "Mr. Bertram,
stop yourself; think, at any rate, of what you are going to say. It is a pity when such as
you speak foolishly." It was singular to see how much more composed she was than he; how much
more able to manage the occasion--and yet her feelings were strong too.

"Nothing; I would have you say nothing--nothing, unless this: that whatever my destiny may
be, you will share it with me."

As he spoke he did not look towards her, but straight before him down the path. He did not
sigh, nor look soft. There was indeed not much capability for soft looks in his square and
strongly-featured face. He frowned rather, set his teeth together, and walked on faster than
before. Caroline did not answer him immediately; and then he repeated his words. "I do not
care for you to say anything now, unless you can say this--that whatever your lot may be, I
may share it; whatever mine, that you will share it."

"Mr. Bertram."

"Well--"

"Now you have spoken foolishly. Do you not know that you have spoken foolishly?"

"I have spoken truly. Do you speak as truly. You should be as much above false girlish petty
scruples, as you will be and are above falsehood of another kind. You will never tell a man
that you love him if you do not."

"No; certainly, I never will."

"And do not deny it if it be the truth."

"But it is not the truth. How long have we known each other, Mr. Bertram?"

"Counting by days and hours, some fortnight. But what does that signify? You do not love a
man the better always, the longer you know him. Of you, I discern that there is that in you
I can love, that would make me happy. I have talent, some sort of talent at least. You have
a spirit which would force me to use it. I will not pretend to say that I am suited for you.
You must judge that. But I know that you are suited for me. Now I will take any answer you
will give me."

To tell the truth, Miss Waddington hardly knew what answer to give him. He was one, it seemed,
who, having spoken with decision himself, would take any answer as decisive. He was one not
to be tampered with, and one also hardly to be rejected without consideration; and certainly
not so to be accepted. She had liked him much--very much, considering the little she had known
of him. She had even asked herself, half playfully, whether it were not possible that she might
learn to love him. He was a gentleman, and that with her was much. He was a man of talent,
and that with her was more. He was one whose character and mode of thought she could respect.
He was a man whom any woman might probably be able to respect. But Caroline Waddington wanted
much more than this in her future lord. She could talk pleasantly of the probability of her
marrying a country parson; but she had, in truth, a much wider ambition for herself. She would
never marry--such was the creed which was to govern her own life--without love; but she would
not allow herself to love where love would interfere with her high hopes. In her catalogue
of human blisses love in a cottage was not entered. She was not avaricious; she did not look
to money as the summum bonum;--certainly not to marry for money's sake. But she knew that no
figure in the world could be made without means. Her own fortune was small, and she did not
even rate her beauty high. Her birth was the birth of a lady, but that was all; her talents
had never been tried, but she thought of them more indifferently than they deserved. She felt,
therefore, that she had no just ground to hope for much; but she was determined that no folly
on her own part should rob her of any chance that fortune might vouchsafe to her.

Under such circumstances what answer should she make to Bertram? Her heart would have bid her
not reject him, but she was fearful of her own heart. She dreaded lest she should be betrayed
into sacrificing herself to love. Ought prudence now to step in and bid her dismiss a suitor
whose youth had as yet achieved nothing, whose own means were very small, with whom, if he
were accepted, her marriage must be postponed; who, however, was of great talent, who gave
such promise of future distinction? Bertram, when he made his offer, made it from a full heart;
but Caroline was able to turn these matters in her mind before she answered him.

She will be called cold-hearted, mercenary, and unfeminine. But when a young girl throws prudence
to the winds, and allows herself to love where there is nothing to live on, what then is she
called? It seems to me that it is sometimes very hard for young girls to be in the right. They
certainly should not be mercenary; they certainly should not marry paupers; they certainly
should not allow themselves to become old maids. They should not encumber themselves with early,
hopeless loves; nor should they callously resolve to care for nothing but a good income and
a good house. There should be some handbook of love, to tell young ladies when they may give
way to it without censure. As regards our heroine, however, she probably wanted no such handbook.
"Now I will take any answer you will give me." Bertram, when he had said that, remained silent,
awaiting her reply.

"Mr. Bertram," she said at last, "I think that you have spoken unwisely; let us agree to forget
it. What you have said has come from impulse rather than judgment."

"Not so, Miss Waddington. I cannot forget it; nor can you. I would not have it again unsaid
if I could. When I once learned that I loved you, it became natural to me to tell you so."

"Such quick speaking is not perhaps natural to me. But as you demand an immediate answer, I
must give you one. I have had much pleasure in your society, but I have never thought of loving
you. Nor can I love you without thinking of it."

It would be hard to say what answer Bertram expected; indeed, he had no expectations. He had
had no idea of making this offer when he walked up the hill with her. His heart was then turned
rather to worship at that other shrine: it had been her own words, her own eloquence in favour
of the world's greatness, that had drawn him on. He had previously filled his mind with no
expectation; but he had felt an intense desire for success when once he had committed himself
to his offer.

And now, as he walked down beside her, he hardly knew what to make of her answer. A man, if
he be not absolutely rejected, is generally inclined to think that any answer from a lady may
be taken as having in it some glimmer of favour. And ladies know this so well, that they almost
regard any reply on their own part, short of an absolute refusal, as an acceptance. If a lady
bids a gentleman wait awhile for his answer, he thinks himself quite justified in letting all
the world know that she is his own. We all know what a reference to a parent's judgment means.
A lady must be very decisive--very, if she means to have her "no" taken at its full meaning.
Now Caroline Waddington had not been very decisive.

Whatever Bertram's thoughts or his hopes might be, he said nothing more on the present occasion.
He walked silently down the hill by her side, somewhat moody-looking, but yet not with the
hang-dog aspect of a rejected suitor. There was a fire in his eyes and a play upon his countenance
which did not tell of hope altogether extinguished. Before they were at the foot of the hill,
he had resolved that he would have Caroline Waddington for his wife, let the difficulties in
his way be what they might. But then he was ever so keen to resolve; so often beaten from his
resolutions!

And Caroline also walked silently down the hill. She knew that she had given an ambiguous answer,
and was content to let it remain so. In the silence of her chamber, she would think over this
thing and make her calculations. She would inquire into her own mind, and learn whether she
could afford to love this man whom she could not but acknowledge to be so loveable. As for
asking any one else, seeking counsel in the matter from her aunt, that never for a moment suggested
itself to Caroline Waddington.

They had left Miss Baker and Miss Todd at the bottom of the hill. It was a beautiful evening,
and those ladies had consented to sit down and rest there while the more enthusiastic and young
lovers of the mount ascended to the spot of which Bertram was so fond. But in giving that consent,
they had hardly expected that such encroachment would be made on their good-nature. When Caroline
and Bertram again found them, the daylight had almost waned away.

CHAPTER XI.

VALE VALETE.

Miss Baker was a little querulous at being left so long sitting with Miss Todd at the corner
of the garden wall; but Miss Todd was never querulous: she was one of those good-humoured persons
who never complain, and find some antidote to every ill in life, even in the ill itself. True,
she had been kept a couple of hours and more sitting on a stone by the brook Cedron; but then
she had acquired the privilege of telling how Mr. George Bertram and Miss Caroline Waddington
had passed those hours, tête-à-tête together, on the mountain-side.

"Why, Caroline, we thought you were never coming down again," said Miss Baker.

"It was Mr. Bertram's fault, aunt; he is immoveable when he gets to a certain rock up there.
He has an idea of turning hermit, and constructing a cell for himself in that spot."

"If I did turn hermit, it should certainly be for the sake of living there," said he. "But
I fear I want the proper spirit for so holy a life."

"I hope you have not kept us all this time for nothing: you have had some success, I trust?"
said Miss Todd to Bertram, in a laughing whisper. Miss Todd's face was quite joyous as she
whispered; but then her face was always joyous.

"I certainly have not done that which I intended to do," said Bertram, with mock sententiousness.
"And so far I have been unsuccessful."

"Then she has rejected him," said Miss Todd to herself. "What a fool the girl must be!" but
it was a great comfort to Miss Todd that she knew all about it.

That evening their plans were decided on as to leaving Jerusalem--the plans, that is, of those
whose fortunes we must follow;--Miss Baker, namely, and her niece; Sir Lionel and his son.
Of Miss Todd we may here take our leave for awhile. She did not on this occasion marry Sir
Lionel, nor did she even have the satisfaction of knowing that her friends accused her of wishing
to do so. Miss Todd had her weak points, but taking her as a whole, and striking the balance
between good and bad, I do not care how soon we may meet her again. To her friends also we
may bid adieu. Mr. M'Gabbery did not die of love. Mr. Pott did propose to and was accepted
by Miss Jones; but the match was broken off by the parental Potts who on the occasion nearly
frightened poor Mrs. Jones out of her life. The Hunters sojourned for awhile on the sides of
Lebanon, but did at last return to the discomforts of European life. Mrs. Hunter tried the
effect of her favourite costume at Tenby, but it was not found to answer. Of Mr. Cruse, I can
only say that he was dreadfully scolded by Mrs. Pott, in that he had allowed her son to fall
in love; and that Mr. Pott threatened to stop his salary. An attorney's letter, however, settled
that.

It must be confessed that Miss Baker had allowed her plans to be altered by the arrival of
the Bertrams at Jerusalem; and confessed also that Miss Baker's complaisance in this respect
had been brought about by her niece's persuasion. Their original intention had been to go on
to Damascus. Then Miss Baker had begged off this further journey, alleging that her clothes
as well as her strength were worn out; and Caroline had consented to return home by the shortest
route. Then came the temptation of going as far as Beyrout with the Bertrams, and Miss Baker
had been enjoined to have herself patched up externally and internally. She was accordingly
being patched up; but now things were altered again. Caroline knew that she could not travel
with George Bertram without engaging herself to be his wife; or that if she did, their journey
would not be a happy one. And she did not wish so to engage herself without further thought.
She determined, therefore, that they would fall back upon her aunt's plan, and return home
by the easier route, by Jaffa, that is, and Alexandria.

Her altered mind had to be explained, not only to her aunt, but to the Bertrams; and she came
to the somewhat singular resolve to explain it in both cases by the simple truth. She would
tell her aunt what had happened; and she would make George Bertram understand in a few and
as kind words as might be, that under the present circumstances it would be better that they
should not be thrown into the very close intercourse necessary for fellow-travellers in the
East. She was very prudent, was Miss Waddington; and having freed herself of one lover because
she did not like him, she prepared to rid herself of another because she did.

The Bertrams were to leave Jerusalem together in a couple of days' time. George was to go with
his father as far as Constantinople, and, having seen something of real Turks in real Turkey,
was to return at once to England. After his last visit to the Mount of Olives, he said nothing
further about the church as a profession.

That evening Caroline settled it all with her aunt. "Aunt," said she, as they sat together
brushing their hair before they went to bed, "you will think me very fanciful; but after all,
I believe we had better go back by Alexandria."

"Oh dear, I shall be so glad, my dear. Jane says that I could not possibly get a travelling
dress made here that I could wear."

"You could get a dress in Damascus, I don't doubt, aunt. But--"

"And I really am not fit for much more riding. I don't like to disappoint you; but if you really
wouldn't mind it--"

"Well, I should mind it,--and I should not. But let me tell you. You must not think that I
am so very changeable, first pressing you to go one way, and then begging you to go another,
without a reason."

"No; I know you do it for my sake."

"Not that either, aunt--quite; but do listen. Mr. Bertram to-day made--"

"He has not offered to you, has he?"

"Yes, aunt; that is just what he has done. And, therefore, perhaps it will not be quite so
well that we should travel together."

"But, Caroline, tell me--pray do tell me; what did he say, and what have you said? Oh dear
me, this is very sudden." And Miss Baker sat back in her chair, with her now grayish hair hanging
over her shoulders, with her hair-brush still held in one hand, and with the other resting
on the toilet-table.

"As for what he said, I may skip that, aunt. It was the old story, I suppose, merely signifying
that he wanted me to marry him."

"Well, well."

"As you truly say, aunt; it was too sudden. Mr. Bertram has a great deal to recommend him;
a very great deal; one cannot but like him. He is very clever too."

"Yes, Caroline; and will be his uncle's heir--doubtless."

"I know nothing of that; to tell the truth, indeed, I never thought of that. But it would have
made no difference."

"And you refused him."

"Well, I hardly know. I do know this--that I did more towards refusing him than accepting him;
that I must have much more love for any man I do marry than I have for him at present; and
that after what has passed, I think we had better not go to Damascus together."

To this latter proposition aunt Mary fully agreed; and thus it was decided that the extra patching
for the longer journey need not be accomplished. Miss Baker would explain the matter to Sir
Lionel in her way; and Caroline would do the same to George Bertram in hers. On one other point,
also, Miss Baker made up her mind fully; though on this matter she did not think it prudent
to make her mind known to her niece. She was very confident that the marriage would take place,
and resolved to do all in her power to bring it about. Personally, she was fond of George Bertram;
she admired his talents, she liked his father, and felt very favourably inclined towards his
uncle's wealth. She finished her toilet therefore in calm happiness. She had an excellent match
in view for her niece--and, after all, she would escape that dreadful horseback journey to
Damascus.

During the next day Caroline and George Bertram were not together for a moment--that is, they
were not together alone; for they breakfasted and dined at the same table, and he sat between
the aunt and her niece as he had done continually since he had been at Jerusalem. Sir Lionel
told him in the forenoon that they were not to have the pleasure of the ladies' company on
their journey, and rallied him as to the heart-breaking tendency of these tidings. But George
showed, in his countenance at least, no symptoms of heart-breaking.

That evening, as they all parted for the night, George did press Miss Waddington's hand more
warmly than was usual with him; and, as he did so, he did look into her face for one moment
to see what encouragement he might find there. I cannot say that there was no encouragement.
The pressure was perhaps not met by any similar warmth on her part, but it was submitted to
without any touch of resentment: the love which shot from his eye was not returned to him from
hers, but hers were soft beneath his glance, softer than was usual with Caroline Waddington.

But on the next morning they did come together. It was the day before the departure of the
Bertrams, and whatever was to be said must be said then. Caroline watched her opportunity,
and as soon as breakfast was over--they all breakfasted in the public salon--asked him to come
into her aunt's sitting-room. She was quite collected, had fully made up her mind what to say,
and was able also to say it without hesitation, and with perfect self-possession. This was
more than could be boasted of on the gentleman's behalf.

"You know, Mr. Bertram, that we are not going to travel together?"

"Yes; my father told me so yesterday."

"And you will understand the reason of it, I am sure?"

"Not exactly, Miss Waddington. I cannot say I do understand it. I may have been presumptuous
in what I said to you the other day; but I do not see why on that account your aunt should
be put to the inconvenience of altering her plans. You fear, I suppose, that I should annoy
you; but you might trust me--and still may if you will do so."

"Now, Mr. Bertram, you are hardly so sincere as you asserted yourself to be, and required me
to be on the mount. You are yourself quite aware that nobody has thought you presumptuous.
I have nothing to complain of, and much to thank you for--independently of the honour you have
now done me;--for from you it is an honour. But I cannot say that I love you. It would not
be natural that I should do so."

"Good heavens! not natural. I love you with the whole strength of my heart. Is that unnatural?"

"It is the province of men to take the initiative in such matters," said Caroline, smiling.

"I know nothing as to man's province, or of woman's province either. By province, you mean
custom and conventional rule; and conventional rule means falsehood. I have known you but a
week or two, and I love you dearly. You, of course, have known me as long, and are at any rate
as capable of loving as I am. There would be nothing unnatural in you loving me--though, indeed,
it may be very unlikely that you should do so."

"Well; I will not contradict you in anything if I can help it, except perhaps as to that last
little would-be-proud, petulant protest. But putting out of sight all question of likelihood,
what ought I to do if I do not love you? What in such a case would you recommend a sister to
do? Is it not better that we should not be immediately thrown together, as must so certainly
be the case in travelling?"

"Then I am to understand that you positively can never love me?"

"I have not said so: but you press me unfairly, Mr. Bertram."

"Unfairly. No, by heavens! no pressure in such case can be unfair. I would press the truth
out from you--the real truth; the truth that so vitally concerns myself. You will not say that
you have an aversion to me?"

"Aversion! No, certainly not."

"Or that you cannot love me? Then why not let us remain together? You argue that you do not
yet know me well enough; will not that be the way to know me better?"

"If I were to travel with you now, Mr. Bertram, it would be tantamount to accepting you. Your
own sense will certainly tell you that. Were I to do so, I should give you the privilege of
coming with me as my lover. Forgive me for saying that I cannot give you that privilege. I
grieve to hurt your feelings for a day even; but I am sure you will ultimately approve of what
I am doing."

"And are we to meet no more, then?"

"Of course we shall meet again; at least, in all human probability. My guardian is your uncle."

"I never even knew that till I met you the other day."

"Because you have always been at school or at college; but you know it now. I, at least, shall
look forward to meeting you--and so will my aunt."

"Yes; as acquaintances. It would be impossible for me to meet you in that way. I hardly think
you know or realize what my feelings to you are. I can only meet you to tell you again and
again that I love you. You are so cold yourself that you cannot understand my--my--my impetuosity,
if you choose to call it so."

"In three or four months, Mr. Bertram, you will be laughing at your own impetuosity--when I
perhaps shall be grieving over my own coldness." These last words she said with a smile in
which there was much archness, and perhaps also a little encouragement.

"You will tell me at any rate that I may hope?"

"No; certainly not. You will hope enough for anything you really desire without my telling
you. But I will not joke, as I believe that you are serious."

"Oh, you believe so, do you?"

"Yes; I suppose I must believe so. Your declaration the other day took me very much by surprise.
I had no conception that you had any feelings towards me of that sort. I certainly had entertained
none such towards you. Love with me cannot be the birth of a moment. I cannot say that I will
love merely because I am asked. You would not wish me to be false even in your own favour.
We will part now, Mr. Bertram; and being apart we shall better learn to know, each of us, how
we value the other. On my part I can truly say that I hope we shall meet again--at any rate,
as friends." And then she held out her hand to him.

"Is this to be our farewell?" said he, without at once taking it.

"It shall be if you so please. We shall meet again only at the public table."

"And you will not tell me that I may hope?"

"I will tell you nothing further, Mr. Bertram. You will shake hands with me as with a friend,
will you not?"

He then took her hand, and, holding it in his own, gazed for a moment into her face. She bore
the weight of his eyes with unabashed front. She showed neither anger nor pleasure; neither
disdain nor pride; the same sweet smile was still upon her face, somewhat playful, somewhat
hopeful, but capable of no definite construction either for making or marring a man's comfort.

"Caroline!" he said at last.

"Good-bye, Mr. Bertram. I thoroughly hope you may enjoy your journey."

"Caroline!"

She essayed to withdraw her hand from his. Feeling this, he raised it to his lips and kissed
it, and then left the room. As he closed the door the same smile was on her face.

I hope it will be admitted that Miss Waddington had played her part with skill, and judgment,
and good breeding; and not altogether heartlessly either. She had thought much on the subject
since George had first thrown himself at her feet, and had concluded, putting the good against
the bad, and balancing the affair as accurately as facts would enable her, that the match would
be one which she ought to regard as desirable. There were two valid reasons, however, why she
should not at once accept his offer. Firstly, he might not know his own mind, and it might
be serviceable to him to have the option of renewing his proposal or retreating from it after
a few months' trial of his own feelings. And secondly, she hardly knew her own mind. She could
not in truth say yet whether she did love him, or whether she did not. She was rather inclined
to think she did; but it would be well that she should try the matter before she committed herself.

