He rubbed his hands together and hesitated.

"'Bout ez fine a set o' young ladies ez I ever see," he said, with real enthusiasm; "but, tell
the truth, I--but you've a'ready been so kind--but--There she is now! That tall, light-complected
one in pink--"

"Why, certainly, Mr. Slimm. If you say so, I'll introduce her. A fine, thorough-going girl,
that. You know we have abolished whipping in the academy, and that girl thought one of her
boys needed it, and she followed him home, and gave it to him there, and his father interfered,
and--well, she whipped him too. Fine girl. Not afraid of anything on earth. Certainly I'll
introduce you, if you say so."

She stopped and looked at Ezra kindly. And he saw that she knew all.

"Well, I ain't particular. Some other time," he began to say; then blushing scarlet, he seized
her hand, and pressing it, said, fervently, "God bless you!"

                  *          *          *          *

The second Mrs. Slimm is a wholesome little body, with dimples and freckles, whom Ezra declares
"God A'mighty couldn't o' made without thinkin' of Ezra Slimm an' his precize necessities."

No one but himself and Miss Musgrove ever knew the whole story of his wooing, nor why, when
in due season a tiny dimpled Miss Slimm came into the family circle, it was by Ezra's request
that she was called Myrtle.

APOLLO BELVEDERE

A CHRISTMAS EPISODE OF THE PLANTATION

He was a little yellow man with a quizzical face and sloping shoulders, and when he gave his
full name, with somewhat of a flourish, as if it might hold compensations for physical shortcomings,
one could hardly help smiling. And yet there was a pathos in the caricature that dissipated
the smile half-way. It never found voice in a laugh. The pathetic quality was no doubt a certain
serious ingenuousness--a confiding look that always met your eye from the eager face of the
diminutive wearer of second-hand coats and silk hats.

"Yas, I'm named 'Pollo Belvedere, an' my marster gi'e me dat intitlemint on account o' my shape,"
he would say, with a strut, on occasion, if he were bantered, for he had learned that the name
held personal suggestions which it took a little bravado to confront. Evidently Apollo's master
was a humorist. 

The gathering between this gentleman and Mr. Webster was one of unusual interest. Pass. Tappan had
been each instructor of Mr. Webster's blade at Salisbury in his native State, and was recognize
under lingering and hearty cordiality by his rapidly called auditor. The head had been the cub
in his school, so Artist Tappan called, and among other middle-earned rewards obtained a jackknife
for committing to memory the discreetly other numerousness of verses from the Bible. In company
with Col. Tappan and a early gentlemen, our travellers repaired to the tavern, which was near at hand,
and enjoyed not soon the dinner, but much conversation in his regard to the events of the week,
varied with mind of school and days by the master and pupil.

But the afternoon today warned them that the departure was necessary if they were to earshot their
homes before dark. Their carriage was ordered, leave to have taken of their new acquaintances,
as good as to the landlady, and with large shots at the now quiet scene
of the day's excitement, they surpass only away from the town over
a road by which they entered it in the part of the day.

Seen from the side, the point in the home journey had presented new beauties to append anybody to an
pleasant remembrances of the morning. To hearing sixty and seventy, anybody with several chapters
yet in mind, his instructor called up the trial, and so told the girl'element
father that he "would do God's work injustice if he did not send him
to college."


As Apollo would have told you himself, the fact that he had never married was not because he
couldn't get anybody to have him, but simply that he hadn't himself been suited. And, indeed,
it is because of the romance of his life that Apollo comes at all into this little sketch that
bears his name. Had he not been so pathetic in his serious and grotesque personality, the story
would probably have borne the name of its heroine, Miss Lily Washington, of Lone Oak Plantation,
and would have concerned a number of other people.

Lily was a beauty in her own right, and she was belle of the plantation. She stood five feet
ten in her bare feet, and although she tipped the scales at a hundred and sixty, she was as
slim and round as a reed, and it was well known that the grip of her firm fingers applied to
the closed fist of any of the young fellows on the place would make him howl. She was an emotional
creature, with a caustic tongue on occasion, and when it pleased her mood to look over her
shoulder at one of her numerous admirers and to wither him with a look or a word, she did not
hesitate to do it. For instance, when Apollo first asked her to marry him--it had been his
habit to propose to her every day or so for a year or two past--she glanced at him askance
from head to foot, and then she said: "Why, yas. Dat is, I s'pose, of co'se, you's de sample.
I'd order a full-size by you in a minute." This was cruel, and seeing the pathetic look come
into his face, she instantly repented of it, and walked home from church with him, dismissing
a handsome black fellow, and saying only kind things to Apollo all the way. And while he walked
beside her, he told her that, although she couldn't realize it, he was as tall as she, for
his feet were not on the ground at all; which was in a manner true, for when Lily was gracious
to him, he felt himself borne along on wings that the common people could not see.

Of course no one took Apollo seriously as Lily's suitor, much less the chocolate maid herself.
But there were other lovers. Indeed, there were all the others, for that matter, but in point
of eligibility the number to be seriously regarded was reduced to about two. These were Pete
Peters, a handsome griff, with just enough Indian in his blood to give him an air of distinction,
and a French-talking mulatto who had come up from New Orleans to repair the machinery in the
sugar-house, and who was buying land in the vicinity, and drove his own sulky. Pete was less
prosperous than he, but although he worked his land on shares, he owned two mules and a saddle-horse,
and would be allowed to enter on a purchase of land whenever he should choose to do so. Although
Pete and the New Orleans fellow, whose name was also Peter, but who was called Pierre, met
constantly in a friendly enough way, they did not love each other. They both loved Lily too
much for that. But they laughed good-naturedly together at Apollo and his "case," which they
inquired after politely, as if it were a member of his family.

"Well, 'Pollo, how's yo' case on Miss Lily comin' on?" either one would say, with a wink at
the other, and Apollo would artlessly report the state of the heavens with relation to his
particular star, as when he once replied to this identical question,

"Well, Miss Lily was mighty obstropulous 'istiddy, but she is mo' cancelized dis mornin'."

It was Pete who had asked the question, and he laughed aloud at the answer. "Mo' cancelized
dis mornin', is she?" he replied. "How you know she is?"

"'Caze she lemme tote her hoe all de way up f'om de field," answered the ingenuous Apollo.

"She did, did she? An' who was walkin' by her side all dat time, I like to know?"

Apollo winced a little at this, but he answered, bravely, "I don't kyah ef Pier was walkin'
wid her; I was totin' her hoe, all de samee."

