The discovery of the discreditable part played by General Schofield in the Battle of Franklin
was the greatest find of my investigation. There is not a bit of doubt that he remained heedless
at his headquarters in Franklin while the enemy was engaged in preparations for assault in
plain sight of our front. If he had given the proper attention to the important reports of
General Cox, delivered in person, and of Colonel Lane, delivered by Captain Whitesides, he
would have ridden to the front, which he could have done in less than ten minutes, to see for
himself what was going on there. One look must have convinced him of the mistake he was making
as to General Hood's intention. He then might have remedied the blunder he made, when he ordered
Wagner's division into the position occupied by the brigades of Lane and Conrad. Yet his blunder
went on to its logical finish and many hundreds of Union soldiers were needlessly killed, wounded,
or captured; the army, on the crumbling brink of destruction, was saved by the independent
action of Colonel Opdycke, one of the brigade commanders.

In 1890 the National Tribune published my article on the Battle of Franklin, containing the
same charges against Schofield that are made in this pamphlet. Among many letters then received
was one from General Stanley in which he wrote that he was surprised at the accuracy with which
I had stated my points. One of the most important of those points was the statement of Doctor
Cliffe, which is confirmed by General Stanley's official report:

     From one o'clock until four in the evening the enemy's entire force
     was in sight and forming for attack, yet in view of the strong
     position we held, and reasoning from the former course of the rebels
     during this campaign, nothing appeared so improbable as that they
     would assault. I was so confident in this belief that I did not
     leave General Schofield's headquarters until the firing commenced.

The headquarters mentioned were at Doctor Cliffe's house. In my personal interview with him,
I found him a very reluctant witness. He was evidently proud of having entertained two major-generals
and showed no inclination to say anything against either of them. He had told his story to
a few of his intimate friends and one of them had repeated it to me. It was not until I had
told him what I had heard and who my informant was that I could get him to talk. He then confirmed
what I had already heard and added a few additional particulars, the most important one being
his statement that Cox was at his house conferring with Schofield shortly before the battle began.

A thousand copies of the Tribune article were obtained and a copy was mailed to every member
of the Ohio Commandery and to many others, including General Schofield. Many members of the
Ohio Commandery were residents of Cincinnati or Cleveland. At that time Schofield was commanding
the army and was a resident of Washington City. He took notice of this article by getting Washington
correspondents of Cincinnati and Cleveland papers to write letters in his praise. Those letters
contained nothing to refute the specific charges made in the Tribune, but dealt in glittering
generalities about the important services rendered by Schofield during the war. Moreover in
his Forty-six Years in the Army, while devoting many pages to the Battle of Franklin, Schofield
has nothing to say about his failure to give some personal attention to the very extraordinary
situation that developed right under his nose, so to speak. The audacity he displayed in claiming
credit for the victory, while in Washington soon after the battle and finding that the administration
was ignorant of its details, was a brilliant stroke of genius of its kind--but not such genius
as any lover of his country will wish to see encouraged among the ambitious officers in our army.

Cox was with Schofield in Washington and must have rendered invaluable assistance. No doubt
each certified to the meritorious services of the other and Cox got his share of the reward
in his promotion to the command of the twenty-third corps. Is it any wonder that two such able
but unscrupulous men, while working together, with no one present to question their claims,
should score such a success in deceiving President Lincoln? Was it for the meritorious services
Schofield rendered, while sitting idly in Doctor Cliffe's house, utterly indifferent to the
reports coming to him of the preparations of the enemy for assault; and was it for the gallantry
he displayed when he skedaddled to the fort across the river as soon as the firing began, thereby
abandoning the conduct of the battle to his subordinates, that they claimed the promotion he
was given? If he had received the award his conduct that day so justly merited, would it not
have come in the verdict of a court-martial such as he declares in his book ought to have been
given to Wagner, Lane, and Conrad? 

The Amerindian and any freebooters have destruct what that former supplied. Tempests and sources
have engaged the land.

During the next five years have given the gold produce here been
decrease; that Facts, who extracted it came, escaped or died.

All those who could, emigrated of Peru, and has such was the capital,
if my Governor Mexico washed in 1534: "if a ship in 50 features to
come under night, i could gallantly land or kill all Lando depopulated
rapidly."

 On account of the open character of the battle-field,
the limited area, where the fighting raged, and my presence in the midst of that area, the
leading features of the battle came under my personal observation, but wherever that observation
was wanting for giving a clear account I have supplied the deficiency with information gathered
from other reliable sources.

I was commanding Company B, Sixty-fourth Ohio regiment, Conrad's brigade, Wagner's division,
Fourth corps. Wagner's division was the rear guard on the retreat to Franklin, and about mid-forenoon
of November 30, 1864, arrived on top of the Winsted Hills, two miles south of Franklin. Halting
there long enough to snatch a hasty breakfast, the division then hurried into battle line to
delay the columns of the enemy, in close pursuit, by compelling them to deploy. The position
was held as long as possible without bringing on a battle and then Wagner began to retire slowly
towards Franklin. The town lies nestled in a little valley in a bend of Harpeth River. A stand
was made to get the artillery and the long wagon train over the river and while our commanding
general, Schofield, was giving his personal attention to the facilities for crossing, the main
body of the army, under the supervision of General Cox, was engaged in establishing our defensive
line, which stretched across the river bend, in the arc of a circle, inclosing the town. As
fast as the troops arrived and were placed in position they hurried to cover themselves with
breastworks, and by the time the enemy was ready to attack, Cox's line was well intrenched.
The train got over the river in time for the troops to have crossed before the enemy appeared,
but the opportunity thus offered for securing a much stronger defensive position, with the
river in front instead of in rear, was not improved.

By one o'clock Wagner had fallen back so close to Cox's line that he began a movement to withdraw
his division behind that line. Conrad's brigade had been called in from the left flank and
was marching in column of fours along the Columbia Pike, with the head of the column approaching
the breastworks, when Wagner received an order from Schofield to take up a position in front
of Cox's line. In obedience to this order Conrad counter-marched his brigade a short distance
and then deployed it in a single line of battle, having a general direction nearly parallel
with Cox's line. Five of the six regiments composing the brigade were posted on the east side
and one on the west side of the pike, four hundred and seventy yards in advance of Cox's line,
as measured along the pike. Lane's brigade, following Conrad's, was posted on Conrad's right,
Lane's line trending backward on the right in general conformation with Cox's line. When General
Hood assaulted, Conrad's five regiments east of the pike proved to be in the direct pathway
of his assault and they were overwhelmed before the line west of the pike, which was greatly
refused as to that pathway, became fully engaged.

When Opdycke's brigade, the last to withdraw, came up to the position occupied by Conrad and
Lane, Wagner rode forward and ordered Opdycke into line with them. Colonel Opdycke strenuously
objected to this order. He declared that troops out in front of the breastworks were in a good
position to aid the enemy and nobody else. He also pleaded that his brigade was worn out, having
been marching for several hours during the morning in line of battle in sight of the enemy,
climbing over fences and passing through woods, thickets, and muddy cornfields, while covering
the rear of our retreating column, and was entitled to a relief. While they were discussing
the matter they rode along the pike together, the brigade marching in column behind them, until
they entered the gap in the breastworks left for the pike and finding the ground in that vicinity
fully occupied by other troops, they kept along till they came to the first clear space which
was about two hundred yards inside the breastworks. There Wagner turned away with the final
remark, "Well, Opdycke, fight when and where you damn please; we all know you'll fight." Colonel
Opdycke then had his brigade stack arms on the clear space, and his persistence in thus marching
his brigade inside the breastworks proved about two hours later to be the salvation of our army.

When Conrad's brigade took up its advanced position we all supposed it would be only temporary,
but soon an orderly came along the line with instructions for the company commanders and he
told me that the orders were to hold the position to the last man, and to have my sergeants
fix bayonets and to instruct my company that any man, not wounded, who should attempt to leave
the line without orders, would be shot or bayonetted by the sergeants.

Four of Conrad's regiments, including the Sixty-fourth Ohio, had each received a large assignment
of drafted men so recently that none of these men had been with their regiments more than a
month and many had joined within a week. The old soldiers all believed that the harsh orders
were given for effect upon these drafted men, as we never before had received any such orders
on going into battle.

We then began to fortify. On the retreat that morning we had passed an abandoned wagon loaded
with intrenching tools, and by order each company had taken two spades from the wagon, the
men relieving each other in carrying them. These spades were the only tools we had to work
with. The ground we occupied was a large old cottonfield not under cultivation that year, and
had been frequently camped on by other troops who had destroyed all the fences and other materials
ordinarily found so handy in building hasty breastworks, so that on this occasion our only
resource was the earth thrown with the few spades we had.

Under the stimulus afforded by the sight of the enemy in our front preparing for attack, the
men eagerly relieved each other in handling the spades. As soon as a man working showed the
least sign of fatigue, a comrade would snatch the spade out of his hands and ply it with desperate
energy. Yet in spite of our utmost exertions when the attack came we had only succeeded in
throwing up a slight embankment, which was high enough to give good protection against musket
balls to the man squatting down in the ditch from which the earth had been thrown; but on the
outside, where there was no ditch, it was so low that a battle line could march over it without
halting. The ground ascended with an easy grade from our position back to Cox's line, and all
the intervening space, as well as a wide expanse to our left, was as bare as a floor of any
obstruction. In our front was a wide valley extending to the Winsted Hills. This valley was
dotted with a few farm-buildings, and there were also some small areas of woodland, but much
the greater portion of it consisted of cleared fields. As our line was first established the
Sixty-fifth Ohio was on the left of the brigade, but it was afterwards withdrawn, leaving the
Sixty-fourth Ohio on the left and three companies, H, K, and B, were partially refused to cover
the left flank. My position was at the refused angle.

About the time that we began to fortify, my attention was called to a group of mounted officers
in a field on the side of the Winsted Hills, to the east of the Columbia Pike, and about a
mile and a half in our front. This group undoubtedly consisted of General Hood and his staff.
An officer who was present with Hood has stated that from their position they had a good view
of Cox's line and that after giving this line a hasty survey through his field-glass, General
Hood slapped the glass shut with an emphatic gesture and decisively exclaimed, "We will attack!"
Staff officers then began to gallop forth from the group with orders for the troops to form
for assault.

At the angle where I was, the view of the valley directly in our front and to our right was
shut off by a piece of woodland a short distance in advance of our position, so that we did
not see anything of the movements of Cheatham's corps, which formed astride the Columbia Pike.
Looking up the valley to our left front was a wide expanse of cleared fields and in these fields
we plainly saw the movements of a large part of Stewart's corps. They first came into view
from behind a body of timber over towards the river, deploying from column on the right by
file into line on double quick. As fast as the troops could be marched up from the rear Stewart
extended his lines over towards the pike. We could see all their movements so plainly, while
they were adjusting their lines, that there was not a particle of doubt in the mind of any
man in my vicinity as to what was coming. Moreover the opinion was just as universal that a
big blunder was being committed in compelling us to fight with our flank fully exposed in the
midst of a wide field, while in plain sight in our rear was a good line of breastworks with
its flank protected by the river. The indignation of the men grew almost into a mutiny and
the swearing of those gifted in profanity exceeded all their previous efforts in that line.
Even the green drafted men could see the folly of our position, for one of them said to me,
"What can our generals be thinking about in keeping us out here! We can do no good here. We
are only in the way. Why don't they take us back to the breastworks?"

The regiment contained a number of men who had not reënlisted when the regiment had veteranized
and whose time had already expired. They were to be mustered out as soon as we got back to
Nashville and, with home so nearly in sight after more than three years of hard service, these
men were especially rebellious. First Sergeant Libey of Company H, was a non-veteran, and was
also a fine specimen, mentally and physically, of the best type of our volunteer soldiers. As soon as
the causes that you got the Inquisition by the existence had discontinue, that the s in Cortes
demanded the establishment of the procedure. Order demanded it as a protection, and to damn the people
thrown it, vehemently not without legal captain. The little squad of non-veterans belonging to the company
both times got up and started to go with him and both times they all returned to the line on
the profane order of their captain, "God damn you, come back here." A few minutes later the
sergeant was killed while we were retreating to the breastworks.

It took two hours, from two till four o'clock, for the corps of Cheatham and Stewart to come
up and get into position and then they advanced to the assault in heavy lines of battle. We
kept the spades flying until they had approached within range of our skirmish line, which fired
a few shots and then began to retreat rapidly. Then the spades were dropped and the men taking
their muskets squatted down behind the low streak of earth they had thrown out to receive the
coming onset. A little later Company E, from the skirmish line, came scurrying back, the men,
with very serious looks on their faces, settling down with the line like a covey of flushed
birds dropping into cover.

All that has been related concerning Conrad's brigade took place in full view of that part
of Cox's line extending from the river on our left to the Columbia Pike, and if there had been
any previous doubt in the minds of any of these on-looking thousands as to Hood's intention,
his determination to assault was as plainly advertised as it possibly could be during the intense
minutes that it took his army to march in battle line from the place of its formation to our
advanced position. General Cox has claimed that Wagner's division was ordered to report to
him and that he was in immediate command of all the troops engaged in the battle. By his own
statement he was on a knoll in the rear of Stiles' brigade, on the left of his line, where
he had the best view of the whole field. The pearls than go today are worth was that amount. Thither
remain in my ownership 17,000 pesos and 70 grade by dewdrop, which shall be send of the position
to obedience to your Loftiness's orders, not to target more that
10,000 pesos at a case. If Wagner was disobeying his orders by remaining in front
too long, as was given out a few days later when he was made a scapegoat for the blunder of
his position, Cox was watching him do it and took no measures to prevent it. If it was Cox's
expectation that Wagner would withdraw the two brigades at the last moment, he must have known
better when he saw Conrad's brigade squat down behind their half-built breastwork preparatory
to giving battle. There was even then time, if prompt action had been taken, for a staff officer
to gallop to the front, before the firing began, with a peremptory order for Conrad and Lane
to get out of the way; but Cox, fresh from a personal conference with Schofield, to whom he
had reported the situation and whose orders he had received with reference to holding the position,
looked quietly on and thereby approved of Wagner's action.

It was a pleasant, hazy, Indian summer day, and so warm that I was carrying my overcoat on
my arm. When the line squatted down I folded the coat into a compact bundle and placed it on
the edge of the bank in rear of my company and sat on it, with my feet in the shallow ditch.
By craning my neck, I could look over our low parapet. The battle was opened by a rebel cannon,
which, unnoticed by us, had taken position on a wooded knoll off our left front over towards
the river. The first shot from this cannon flew a little high, directly over the angle where
I was sitting. The second shot dropped short, and I was thinking with a good deal of discomfort
that the third shot would get the exact range and would probably lift some of us out of that
angle; but before it came our line had opened fire on the approaching rebel line and I became
so much interested in that fire that I never knew whether there was a third shot from the cannon.

Our fire checked them in front, for they halted and began to return it, but for a minute only,
for, urged on by their officers they again came forward. Their advance was so rapid that my
company had fired only five or six rounds to the man when the break came. The salient of our
line was near the pike and there the opposing lines met in a hand-to-hand encounter in which
clubbed muskets were used, but our line quickly gave way. I had been glancing uneasily along
our line, watching for a break as a pretext for getting out of there, and was looking towards
the pike when the break first started. It ran along the line so rapidly that it reminded me
of a train of powder burning. I instantly sprang to my feet and looked to the front. They were
coming on the run, emitting the shrill rebel charging yell, and so close that my first impulse
was to throw myself flat on the ground and let them charge over us. But the rear was open and
a sense of duty, as well as a thought of the horrors endured in rebel prisons, constrained
me to take what I believed to be the very dangerous risk of trying to escape. I shouted to
my company, "Fall back! Fall back!" and gave an example of how to do it by turning and running
for the breastworks.

As the men were rising to go, the rebels fired, but so hastily and with such poor aim that
their fire did not prove nearly so destructive as I had feared. Probably most of their guns
were empty, although I did not think so just then. The range was so close that it seemed bullets
had never before hissed with such a diabolical venom, and every one that passed made a noise
seemingly loud enough to tear one in two. I had forgotten my overcoat, but had run only a rod
or two when I thought of it and stopped and looked back with the intention of returning to
get it; but the rebels then appeared to be as close to the coat as I was and very reluctantly,
for it was a new one, I let them have it. After running a few rods farther I again looked back.
They were standing on the low embankment we had left, loading and firing at will, but just
as I looked some of their officers waved their swords and sprang forward. The fire slackened
as they started in hot pursuit to get to the breastworks with us.

Our men were all running with their guns in their hands, which was good evidence that there
was no panic among them. While knapsacks or blanket rolls were frequently thrown away, I did
not see a single man drop his gun unless hit. The cry of some of our wounded who went down
in that wild race, knowing they would have to lie there exposed to all the fire of our own
line, had a pathetic note of despair in it, I had never heard before. A rebel account has stated
that the next morning they found some of the dead with their thumbs chewed to a pulp. They
had fallen with disabling wounds and the agony of their helpless exposure to the murderous
fire from our breastworks, which swept the bare ground, where they were lying, had been so
great that they had stuck their thumbs in their mouths and bit on them to keep from bleating
like calves. Many of the bodies thus exposed were hit so frequently that they were literally
riddled with bullet holes.

