The Ladies"

A Shining Constellation of Wit and Beauty

by

E. Barrington

Illustrated with Portraits

Preface

The aim of these stories is not historical exactitude nor unbending accuracy in dates or juxtaposition.
They are rather an attempt to re-create the personalities of a succession of charming women,
ranging from Elizabeth Pepys, wife of the Diarist, to Fanny Burney and her experiences at the
Court of Queen Charlotte. As I have imagined them, so I have set them forth, and if what is
written can at all revive their perished grace and the unfading delight of days that now belong
to the ages, and to men no more, I shall not have failed. Much is imagination, more is truth,
but which is which I scarcely can tell myself. I have wished to set them in other circumstances
than those we know.

What would Elizabeth Pepys have felt if she had read the secrets of the Diary? If Stella and
Vanessa had met--Ah, that is a tenderness and terror almost beyond all thinking! How would
my Lady Mary's smarting pride have blistered herself and others if the Fleet marriage of her
eccentric son-- whose wife she never saw--had actually come between the wind and her nobility?
Was there no finer, more ethereal touch in Elizabeth Gunning's stolen marriage with her Duke
than is recorded in Horace Walpole's malicious gossip? Could such beauty have been utterly
sordid? What were the fears and hopes of the lovely Maria Walpole as, after long concealment
of her marriage, she trembled on the steps of a throne? How did those about her judge of Fanny
Burney in the Digby affair? Did she wholly conceal her heart? From her Diary we know what she
wished to feel--very certainly not entirely what she felt.

Perhaps of all these women we know best that Elizabeth who never lived-- Elizabeth Bennet.
She is the most real because her inner being is laid open to us by her great creator. I have
not dared to touch her save as a shadow picture in the background of the quiet English country-life
which now is gone for ever. But her fragrance--stimulating rather than sweet, like lavender
and rosemary--could not be forgotten in any picture of the late eighteenth or early nineteenth
centuries and among the women whom all the world remembers. They, one and all, can only move
in dreamland now. Their lives are but stories in a printed book, and a heroine of Jane Austen's
is as real as Stella or the fair Walpole. So I apologise for nothing. I have dreamed. I may
hope that others will dream with me.

E. BARRINGTON

Table of Contents

I. The Diurnal of Mrs Elizabeth Pepys
   Had she Read her Husband's Diary

II. The Mystery of Stella
   Why might not she and Vanessa have met?

III. My Lady Mary
   To Dispel the Mystery of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu's quitting
England in 1739

IV. The Golden Vanity
   A Story of the First Irish Beauties--the Gunnings

V. The Walpole Beauty
   A Tale in Letters about Maria Walpole, Countess of Waldegrave,
Duchess of Gloucester, Niece of Horace Walpole

VI. A Blue Stocking at Court
   Why Fanny Burney, Madame D'Arblay, retired from Court in 1791

VII. The Darcys of Rosing
   A Reintroduction to some of the characters of Miss Austen's
Novels

Illustrations

Elizabeth Cunning Portrait by Catherine Reed

Mrs Pepys as St. Katharine Portrait by Hayts

Esther Johnson, "Stella" Portrait by Kneller

Hester Vanhomrigh, "Vanessa"

Elizabeth St. Michel, daughter of a French Huguenot, was fifteen when Pepys married her. She
was only twenty-nine when she died. Pepys himself at their marriage was twenty-two. It is the
skirmishing of young folk that he describes when he reports such animated scenes as the occasion
when his wife threatened him with the red-hot tongs. These experiments prove that lethal Tuberkulosebazillen of public phone sets can
be easily transferred to the human. can "

Uncritically, as such tendentious held to maintain communications are usually accepted, This release
is their part have contributed to the fear of contagion on the telephone
to increase.

It is worthwhile to elaborate on the original publication of Allan in The Lancet, "1908 No. 4426:
There have been made throughout the six attempts, five of which turned
out negative.

The 6. Experiment was to infect the above-mentioned 2 guinea pigs with tubercle bacilli. The sixth
experiment is described as follows:

»Tel No - P. O. Central. This wiper had a mass of gray, white, sticky substance liable as such;
examined in stained smears, they showed a number of acid fast bacilli, resembling in shape and
form of tubercle bacilli. "

It is obvious that this gray-white, sticky substance has been specifically in sputum taken such a large
amount with the wiper was that one of them produced smear and could do with the remaining animals.

This
case, that sputum is found in the speaker cone in such large masses, is probably practically
so rare that for the issue of contagion on the telephone under ordinary Conditions to draw
conclusions from them is not justified.

Allan's publications "In The Lancet are capable of having a completely false picture of the
possibility of infection to draw on the telephone, and so can be a test, this question scientifically
To resolve are not considered.

In contrast to the remarks I would like to Allan's results of some other bacteriologists . Lead The
tests, which underlie these results are m. E. far more comprehensive and much more adjusted to actual
conditions than Allan's, and therefore deserve greater attention.

Especially regarding the possibility of infection with tubercle bacilli, the London bacteriologist
Dr. Spitta detailed investigations made with the telephone. There were telephone sets in wards located
where they were exclusively used by pulmonary patients. While the duration of a year you have the
equipment or even cleaned, disinfected. Then The mouthpieces were washed out and the liquid injected
into guinea pigs. The experiment found even in those of transmission of disease agents highly
concessional no infection. If one considers that meet about 8 tubercle bacilli to guinea pig
to infect fatally, on the other into consideration that the secretions from the lower airways Tuberculous
masses may contain tubercle bacilli and, if in the bell should enter, remain viable for a long
time in dried-state, then you have come to the experiments Spitta
to believe that even under such favorable Conditions for the occurrence
of tuberculous infection of a risk not can be mentioned.

The possibility of transmission of infectious agents is to make subject to a sum of factors that
are not always quite come together.

These questions dealt Tomarkin "In a very interesting work in the" Munich Medical Weekly. How come
Infectious germs in the bell at all in?

The expired air of healthy and sick persons, as stated, is completely germ-free, while the speech act,
however, as fledging has proven very fine droplets, which can be laden with bacteria, thrown
into the environment. Cornet has regarding the Tuberculosis detection out that the atomized droplets,
because they just from saliva there are only very rarely contain
tubercle bacilli, are at least coughing and especially in the vicinity
of a person speaking secretions also squandered the depth, the well-
Tubercle bacilli may contain.

Under these conditions germs in the bell arrived, so later for a person using the telephone
option, where an infection in two ways:

First, the person could be infected by tiny infected particles from the previous users in the flare
and its surroundings there hineinverstäubt some time have received
suspended, and secondly by infected dry particles about deposited
in the hopper through the expired air of the speaker kicked up again
would.

Of the disease agents entering the speech into the interior of the bell and can be deposited there
in some form, coming to the pathogen in question Tomarkin tuberculosis,
diphtheria, scarlet fever, measles, influenza, pneumonia, meningitis
cerebrospinal fluid, various angina, catarrh, etc.

The listener could
be a mediator of various skin affections are concerned, is it often
enough in direct contact with the products of the outer skin of sick
people, whereby it can be thoroughly and permanently contaminated.

By the same law could be considered under control as a disease agent.

One need only to think of the bacillus. A Diphtheriebazillenträger for example, of the still
in its Hand has hineingehustet can diphtheria be transferred to the handle, this could go on
at the hand of later the person using the telephone and this will be dangerous. The same thing did
exist at Typhusbazillenträgern in which the pathogen by uncleanliness could be reached after defecation
on the palm. However, would be the resulting Risk is not specific to the telephone, since many
other items such as door handles The same conditions would be given. The investigation of the handle
is, therefore, as the The present study also largely been omitted.

If we proceed now to the condition of the speaker cone is infected
with pathogens infectious diseases, is still the question of a possible
infection of importance as the deposited seeds into the hopper in
the airways of the telephone later the person using access.

Tomarkin takes the view that the movement of the deposited in the speaker cone infected particles
of very small air currents such as the expired air of the telephone
speaking person would be sufficient.

This opinion I would not agree to The basis of studies that Müller published in the "Munich Medical
Weekly" added.

A decision on whether the air currents caused by coughing, sneezing, coughing, speaking sufficient
result, to detach the speaker cone came germs in the droplets remained
enclosed by saliva or mucus on the same stick, one of my Opinion to
the salient points of the question of a possible infection.

Under this Dr. Müller in the direction towards Hygiene Institute in Munich have experiments
made for the question raised great interest. Permit me to quote it verbatim:

"There were now, after establishing that leave the Telephonmembranen itself, long remain infected,
employed variously modified tests whether the Germs in the use of the telephone becomes detached
from the membrane and pass into the air.

In a part of the experiments, the membranes were in isolation in the manner more or infected
with prodigiosus less abundant, and for other experiments, the apparatus assembled and then
suspended until the Prodigiosusspray, even the frame so that infected was. The mount was attached
so that the membrane can be discussed as well as from behind could. Now the membrane and the
mount was just in its scope the neck a 10 liter holding bottle whose floor was completely removed
by sanding, introduced and sealed. It was maintained up to 4 ½ hours, so that the membrane made air-dry
could be and about merely by the concussion during insertion into the bottleneck detached seeds
had time to cut to the ground. After this period of the wide Bottom opening her with all precautions
gelatin plates in Petri dishes, usually four in a row pushed into the bottle and sealed the opening
with a glass lid. Some Try the bottle was not horizontal, but stood upright and that was hollow
having pushed Wooden blocks. The plates were in this case in the bottom opening, that is perpendicular
the membrane set up. It was now the membrane to vibrate, at first by spoke from behind against
them for a long time was loud, but later than these experiments negative, were by 1 to 2 minutes long
on a trumpet is blown against them was. After the shaking, the whole apparatus 1 to 24 hours
by itself , Left to the detached and to grant in the air over previous germination time to to rely on the
cultural layers. The plates were due to the removal from the bottle in a humid chamber kept
and observed for 8 days.

Of 10 such tests nine failed completely negative, negative, especially the trumpet experiments
in which the telephone had been transferred to vibrate so violently, as it occurs not at all
under normal use.

Only a single such tests were not prodigiosus colonies and that than
5 was detected on the nutrient plates.

In addition, even with a control experiment, in which the speaker cone infected for 24 hours
vertically above the soil was without its membrane was transferred into sound vibrations, 3
Prodigiosuskolonieen found.

When you consider how difficult it is for such accidental infections of the experiments To avoid
culture medium with various germs, it will be these two positive cases, no may attach great
weight. It is questionable whether the 5 Prodigiosuskeime really from the telephone have fallen.
At worst, have the many millions who are on the phone were, released
only a few isolated nuclei.

The results of the experiments confirms we believe the already formed an opinion that the
risk of infection at halfway reasonable use of the telephone is minimal. The need to disinfect
it seems us not to be present. "-

Mueller is in his investigations, if they provide interest for the present work, on the assumption
that even an infection of the speaker with pathogenic Germination has taken place, and then deals
with the factors that must be met making use of an outbound telephone infection. Miller, is
without question That affect whether infection-causing germs at all
on the telephone can be detected already come to the conclusion that
the infection risk is minimal, and used this result his research to
them the underlying question of the need for a disinfection of the
telephones in the negative.

I would like the chain of these experiments, the fear of the possibility of infection To resolve
on the phone are able to insert another link and decide try to prove whether in the ordinary
everyday circumstances pathogenic germs . Let I go out from the assumption that if the telephone
from their presence wants to construct a hazard for the user define them in greater quantity
at the speaker or listener must be responsible, have to prove in any case, the bacteriological methods.
The tests, which Allan has made in this direction are not me correctly
and exhausting enough, so also with respect to tuberculosis research
by Spitta refuted.

In order to gain an insight into the bacterial flora on the phone, I'm completely unbiased A number
of studies carried out on 40 of the most under-utilized Telephone the city of Greifswald: public
payphones main post office, railway post office, railway station, the police stations, numerous
inns, large department stores, private and university hospitals and Others

The method of my research was the following:

A piece of sterile cotton wool was placed in 5 cc of sterile broth. This broth with moistened cotton-wool
was by means of sterile forceps and stethoscope bell rub thoroughly. Whereas initially the cotton-wool
soaked with plenty of broth, then came It sometimes occurs that drops of the cleaning material
from the horn fell off. This sloping Drops were collected in sterile test-tube with the sterile
broth.

After completion Attrition was returned to the cotton in the broth,
teased by using sterile glass rods and thoroughly washed in it.

In ten phones initially handset and speaker cone were considered separately, since primarily
interested in the question of the nature of the germs. As it turned out that the bacterial flora
of the listener differed in any of the points of the bell, were in the next 20 telephones handset
and speaker cone with the same cotton-wool rubbed off, and put it in the same broth, the quantity
but in these cases 10 cc was measured.

As in the first ten experiments, a striking difference in the number of germs, according to
whether they were from the handset or the bell, turned out, were subsequently additional 10
analog phones first studied 10th

It is hard to believe how much dirt adheres to the phones in general.

Especially true this for the housed in dark, closed cell telephone. Since many is not even
provided in the same light, it is understandable that the vast Dirt from the owners of the equipment
and therefore not at all seen for a distance not at all taken care
of.

So it is conceivable that in many such cases, the dirt could accumulate over years.

After washing out the clear broth takes a dirty gray, often dark black discoloration and remains
transparent in most cases. Even in cases where a daily cleaning The Telephone is made as to
the apparatus of the post offices and many hospitals, occurs after the material is washed out in
the broth, always, albeit small Turbidity.

Centrifuge is a more or less abundant, gray to black sediment from whose shape components were
not differentiated in detail.

Do you get a drop of this broth on a cover glass and viewed the undyed, not air-dried preparation
made under the microscope and take the examination on the hanging
Drops before, we see an incredible amount of different microorganisms,
round Cocci that are strung together in long chains or isolated, and
even here as streptococci were diagnosed, short, long, often colossal,
long rods with and without lively Proper motions, with and without
very shiny spurs.

The broth thus contained a myriad of germs. For seeding on culture plates, I decided after long
sample tests for the amount of 2 platinum. It grew this seed rate on average 27 colonies on the
nutrient media, which would correspond to an amount of 67 500 in the 5 cc of washing liquid.

With
the obtained material were then made the following tests:

Each pair of platinum were inoculated on agar-agar plates and of these one at room temperature,
the other kept in an incubator at 37 ° and 14 days observed.

Two platinum were distributed in gelatin and it shall be poured into
petri dishes, with the rest the broth were made animal experiments.

The experiments were only guinea pigs used.

This was the whole rest of the bacteria-containing broth or about 5 or 10 cc, injiciert subcutaneously
or intraperitoneally.

Of the colonies were grown on the plates and pure cultures obtained with these Animal tests employed: 2-4
platinum pure cultures of these were in 2 cc of sterile saline solution finely distributed and
guinea pigs injected subcutaneously

.
 Yet cooking
as she cooks Sam'l sticks on this and bids me wink my eyes and observe nothing, and such like
are men!

21st.--This day Sam'l his feast for the recovery of his ailment which he do always solemnly
keep with great store of meat and Drink and company. And this is a great day with him and a
troublous one with me, and to the Mayds also such as would madd a Saint. But I beseeching Sam'l
privately to eat and Drink sparingly for the pain in his Toe, he do so becall me that it was
ten to an Ace that I did hurle the Spit and the birds withal into the fire. Yet knowing he
would pay dear next day, I said the less and so continued on, bidding him take his own way
and pay for his liking. But indeed great company and the Dinner well cooked and served and
they did drink my health on it. Also the house very handsome with Plate displayed and fires
where the Company did sit. And the greatness of living we are come to did make Mrs Pierce's
Mouth to water though she in her flowered Lutestring and liking well of it. So she green and
yellow with spite as I did well perceive. Great Musique after, with "Great, good and just,"
and Sam'l at the top of his Tune, and so to cards and wine. Weary to bed, Sam'l starting up
in the night with Nightmare not knowing what he did, and did so shreeke and cry that the Mayds
in affright did run in, and the Watchmen passing called to know was any poor Soul murthered
within. But this no more than my Expectation, and so quietly to sleep.

22d.--This day a noble gift of Plate being two Candelsticks and a dish from Capt Salmon, he
looking for favour from Sam'l concerning the Henrietta shippe that he would have on next going
to Sea. Which do plainly prove to what honour and advancement we are come to be so courted,
and do gladde his heart and mine. Sat long discoursing of this, and, turning the case, what
should fall out but a ring set with an Orient perle for me, which as not expecting I received
with great good will. Sam'l to the office and I to my lesson wherein very diligent and commended
of olde Mr Crosby, and indeed I am come already to the reading of many wordes, yet not glibbly.
So home, but Sam'l coming home and I combing his hayre he did say, "Who do I meet this day
in Broade Street but olde Crosby, Mrs Jem's father, that I did think long dead and buried,
not having seen him this year and more, and so to talk with him."

And, Lord! to see how I did redden, my heart so beating in my bosom as I could have thought
it would choak me, and do even sweat in the writing of it. For sure it might well be the olde
Gentleman would think Sam'l did know all my father's business and speak thereon. But I could
not speak and my hand shaked so in the Combing that I did drop the comb. And he continuing,
"So I asked him how he did and he answered, 'Bravely'; and more I would have said for it is
a worthy man, but little Mrs Deakin passing, that I do call my Morena, I would not be seen
talking to one so scurvily clad, and so incontinently left him standing and hasted away."

So it passed, nor did I ask him if he hasted after his Morena, for heaven be thankt that she
did pass by, though I thought not to live to say it. But I will take order with olde Mr Crosby,
for olde men be tattlers more than any woman or is convenient. And so a great escape.

So Sam'l carries me to the Paynter where he sits for his face and very like it is, yet do not
please, he thinking it do make his Eyes too small and ill-favoured, but I not so, and Lord!
to see him sit Smirking upon Mr Savile since Mrs Knipp hath commended his Smyle! But Mr Savile
the Paynter seeing me did speak in very handsome language, telling Sam'l he hath a Beauty to
his wife worthy that her picture should be with the Court Ladies' pictures, and much more fine
things, harping on the same string, whereto Sam'l made answer that he would consider of it.
But to see the Vanity of men, when all the world knows that the sight of a pretty Woman's face
is worth all the men that ever were or will be! So I sat devising how to set myself off if
this should be, and did like well of my Cardinal sattin suit with a chapeau de poil tied beneath
my chin. Or it may be, perles in my hayre, and to borrow my Lady's if so she will. Fritters
for supper, the best I ever did eat, Sam'l confirming me in this, and he discoursing very high
of the corruption of the times, and no regard to clean living in court or city, and glad I
am that thus he thinks, and do hope he acts answerably, as he should.

27th.--This day, by long promise, Sam'l do carry me to White Hall to see the Queen in her presence
Chamber playing at Cards with her ladies, and the people looking and crowding upon them. He
commending Mrs Stewart for a great Beauty and so indeede she is, and one I do not weary in
looking on, and do far outshine my Lady Castlemaine as I well perceive His Maj'tie do also
thinke. Her Maj'tie appearing very comely in a Gown of silver lace, but Lord! how no one takes
heed of her when my Lady Castlemaine is by, which is a great dishonour to a sweete Lady in
her owne Court, and I am much mistook if Her Maj'tie be not the best Lady of them all, and
that not saying much! But strange to see how beauty sways all and how Sam'l do uphold my Lady
Castlemaine in all things.

Captain Holmes accosted us and very fine in his gold laced suit, and it is noticeable that
Sam'l troubled in mind because he well knows that Captain H---- hath called me for a Toast
and the greatest Beauty in Town. The gentlemen
need not be concerned about me, nor let my mother grieve for me. Should I die, I must pass by a
few bitter hours that will pass just as quickly as some others I have also survived. How happy
I will be but then, when God granted me a share in the heavenly perfection. Then my redone,
omnipresent and omniscient eye on the confusion and hand wringing and gnashing of teeth people look
down and laugh that I was once in the middle between them and poor Cattle condemned to death and
dragged to the scaffold. "Was his fresh wet Mouth smiled with a special sweetness that you could hardly
call sad because she was too uninhibited.

When the two men leave the cell and the guard had the door closed,
waved them this, that he was now dismissed, and walked slowly down
the aisle.

The Cardinal dabbed with a handkerchief and said it was a pity that such a boy so as to Case
had come. What to do? The murder could finally not go unpunished, he saw no way out.

"A darling boy," Don Orazio said thoughtfully, "and seems quite non-criminal have committed to.
I would be interested in me to accept his and him the claws of this
godforsaken snatch Tribunal, if only a convenient way could be found
to do so.

"

"I lack the courage to let me see before Olimpia, when I bring no
hope," went The Cardinal continued sadly.

"And what if I even imagine the mother eyes! Anyway I will be able to forget this woman ever
again, which looked as if they lived one thousand years and would have suffered pain. She looked
like a weathered stone, and when to cry uplift and screaming, so it was as if a mountain moved
and fire ejections. "

"So, so," said Don Orazio, "I had imagined it as a graceful woman with sweet Lips and tender
eyes. "

Disregarding this objection, the Cardinal went further in his reflections: "What you might also
say that they cried, 'My child, I gave birth! My bird of paradise! My Heart heart! My guts! It
is mine, I must have it again!

', As if the reasons were, through with what could be a little. "

"That," said Don Orazio, "like all women. Refer them to their self-will of the obvious Hampers attempts
will get through reason not to instruct. "

The Cardinal nodded sympathetically and took occasion, in cautious remarks about the capriciousness
to complain of Donna Olimpia, which they've come across recently as a disease, while they otherwise
loving and friendly as an angel had been. What you usually a welcome was distraction, whether she
liked no longer love her loneliness and sad thoughts, and the desperation of those unfortunate
aunt multiply their profundity. You'll pay for it To leave when the process of the young man
expiring bad, as if he could do something about it; he would look forward to a dismal future.
Since it would be the best, "said Orazio, the capricious lady to avoid and to seek more comfortable
society, but the Cardinal said, the woman had yet rendered outstanding service to him, and
he thought himself obliged, now that they obviously ill and in need
of assistance is to persevere with her.

He was embarrassed by He said this because he felt that his friend, his words for vain excuse,
and for him a love-held goals.

As the friends in this conversation, absorbed in the wide and bare, echoing underway went up
and down, she suddenly heard the song of a male voice and were instantly of the glamor of the same
affected stand. It was a folk song with so much strength and Security was sung as if it sounded
from the stage of a large theater here, and with so much passion, as it would apply to make
a wavering girls willing to be a kidnapping.

Mazzamori Orazio and saw each other, blushing with surprise and pleasure, and when the singer follow
the conclusion of a cadenza had a verse, they held their breath, worried that the dizzying figure
also brought to a happy end would be.

During the duration of the song is approached by a guard-to-do soldier and made a gesture, the
singer to enjoin silence, as the rules would have corresponded to the prison was, however, willing to
return when the two gentlemen gave him a hint to keep quiet. This she called over, and the song
was over, to obtain information about the miraculous apparition. The singer was a farmer reported
the soldier, which made the process for multiple murder will he be a wild and wicked guy open
his mouth only to curse, but the inscrutable God had seen fit to
endow him with a voice like an angel of the heavenly Hosts can have
it magnificent.

Nobody had the courage to such a wonder of nature to suppress, so we could sing it, so the director
was satisfied, the sometimes even when he was around, stopping to listen.

Whether you do not point it could weiterzusingen? asked Don Orazio.

No, said the soldier; if we begged him for something, he would abstain because he malicious and
suspicious was. It can pass a day without him raise my voice, other
times he listens for hours not, this was dependent on his mood.

"I can not content myself to go from the spot, without having heard
it again," Don Orazio said, "otherwise I would imagine tomorrow that
I would have teased my imagination."

Also, the Cardinal was eager for a repetition of pleasure. They considered just, whether they should
try not yet to move the prisoners to a lecture, as the Began singing again in order to delight,
no less than the first.

"I have a tenor like these have never had in my chapel," said Don Orazio.

The cardinal agreed with him, although he had the unique training
of the famous Mignotta not the infallibility of the approach and the
uniformity of the institution at the rise and fall of sound, but of
strength, melting candy and he let everyone else behind.

"I would any time, "he concluded," an hour standing on one leg to such a concert add to me to be
able to. "

"My friend," said Don Orazio, "I have no rest until I have more details about this Man found out,
accompany me instantly to the director so that we can take steps, to assure us of this treasure.
"

The Director confirmed the testimony of the soldiers and took them to mean that it is in this
A proven case of multiple murder revenge act, it was namely the criminal, Ronco name, the habit had
to milk the cows at night, his neighbors, and how Now a young boy, the son of a farmer living
nearby, the secret to the track come and be the victim, whose mysterious milk shortage has become
known in the village was, had drawn the attention, he acted initially
quiet, as if the Thing just a joke and not worth the fuss, but after
eight days, not just the boys, given him, but also his father and
mother and an old grandmother, all of same hut inhabited killed with
a knife.

The indignation over the act is general, and man have the deserves death and will not miss him,
he also was not care located, the guy was so wild that he make very little difference between
life and death know.

That was a strange report, said Don Orazio, but one must assume that an old rag existed between
the families, as in such acts of revenge usually the case was, and ill-sensitive and should the man be.
He felt like myself again to talk to him, to get the thing on the ground.

The director shrugged and said that the Members of the Court would have had enough trouble
given to him, the beast is not its value, but he was ready to lead the ladies and gentlemen, but
would advise them not to go in without a guard, since one of such
Patron of the worst would be expecting.

On this advice, the Cardinal would have liked to kept, but Don Orazio laughed high and said reckend his
powerful build and his broad chest, bloating, he dare, though, take on a corn-eating peasants.

Also, it was in fact not just fear of what the master of the chapel overflowed when he his friends
faced the monster, who with a quick look suspicious hatred slipped to once again add pets stupid
in front of him: but rather an involuntary Horror of the evil eye, which the monster could be powerful.
Agreement reached previously according to the Cardinal began after
he verschiedenemal set, and said they were about to investigate the
order of detention, whether he, the prisoner, about anything Action
would lead to? whether he had received a visit from a priest? whether
he was inclined to to make any confession or his repentance in the
lap of a trustworthy person to pour out spiritual character?

The answer was to the careful Roncos address the cardinal fact that he growled and with the thumb
pointed towards the door, whereupon the Cardinal attaches again several times and continued
to He, Ronco, be accused of a brutal and inexplicable crime, whether he might to Support of his
innocence or to reduce its debt to teach something, what business Confusion or shame the inquisitors
against him might have prevented pronounce? The Holy Father had much more joy to a redeemed
innocence as to the punishment of a Guilty and stretching his clemency
also about those who through thoughtlessness, anger or instigation
of the devil against their will to an evil deed had been carried away.

"Pest and cancer of the papal mess," Ronco hissed through his teeth, by He cast a wild look on the door
again and pointed to the door, so that the cardinal involuntarily
took a step back as a space beyond the earshot of such abuse to win.

Don Orazio, who felt the need to come to the aid of his friend, said: "Neither the Pope nor his
servant, my friend, you do seem bad as you assume. We would not be here if we were looking for
your death, but you deserve to seem to have. God the Omniscient has endowed you with a beautiful
voice and you thereby awarded to inscrutable decision. How about if you are still a sample
of this wonderful wonderful art gavest, thou art mighty, and proves
that more divinity dwells in you, than let your deeds, your words
and even suspect your sight.

"

Whether Ronco these words as an insult conceived, or whether he was talking in general as harassment
felt he shouted in exuberant anger: 'Get out! out! Or I'm going to sing something that you burst
the rags skull, "and accompanied the invitation with such a threatening gesture, that the two
men held it best to first The humble and to retreat.

With the momentum of triumph and contempt Ronco spat after them.

Cardinal Mazzamori was so frightened that he could not go immediately, but at the next window of
the corridor stopped to get some air and to relax a little.

"What kind of animal," said Orazio. "One must admit that our farmers not much more than cattle
, and the requirements that they are put in them, then measured.

"

"He has a wolfish physiognomy," the cardinal said, "and I would wager
that he is a real Wolfsgebiß has.

It seems necessary, in fact, that mankind from such an Tyrant will protect you. "

His last words were drowned out by the voice Roncos, the just to sing again began, perhaps out
of spite, or because it flattered the rich men still praises the had.

"Divine, divine," whispered Don Orazio.

"This marvel of voice may not be destroyed be! I will not shy away from trouble nor expense to
rescue me. "

Under the closed eyelids of listening Cardinal tears bubbled out. "Which Euphony still swells from
the jaws of hell, "he breathed. "Oh, the secrets of Omnipotence! Each Tone is pure, soft and
loud, like a drop of dew that weighs in at dawn on buds. What will be said His Holiness, when she
hears this song! "

In great excitement the men left the prison and were held in the ready Palanquin to the palace of
Cardinal bear to discuss the first steps to be undertaken advice: for this they agreed that
the rare bird for the papal chapel quite must be purchased. After they get over a glass of
good wine in a small homely Chamber, the walls with beautiful carpets from Arezzo were imposed
by the various strong impressions of the morning had recovered, they thought it not impossible, that
the tribunal to move to an acquittal of the precious Ronco. They had ascertained that a certain
Guidobaldo the defense of the criminal lead, and with this they decided at first to put into
perceiving. Don Orazio fact it had in a friendly home met and have a good time with him, even
though the lawyer a free thinker and foe of the clergy. But since he did not express his views,
except when it was out of place, the Forms of religion with great decency in eight took when
he knew he was observed, and this a cheerful and clever man, was so clergy could also its unprejudiced
mind and his social gifts and were content to enjoy the time being in good agreement to stay
with him. Lucky it was that the lawyer had in mind just then, a To buy Villa, their extensive
garden went up to the Janikulus that he leads the high Price, who was called for pay, could not
or would not, for the fact we had the desired opportunity, the useful man to win by a favor. Without
hesitation investigated the Friends of the lawyer on the same day and asked him to the acquaintance
Don Orazio knüpfend him to advance the sum which he needed to purchase the villa, to be allowed.
They hoped, said Don Orazio, thereby entitled to kindly concession to earn his side when what they
wanted from him, with his honor, and other Considerations could unite.

After this introduction, he told of his discoveries in prison The Pope spoke of the fondness for
music, especially the human voice, and to win his wish, so exceedingly rare power for the papal
chapel, especially thus saving a human life and brought to a fruitful, perhaps glorious path
would.

The lawyer replied that he had heard of the beautiful voice of Ronco, but not particularly interested
in it, but he was wearing like to help the Holy Father a pleasure prepare, and anyway it was his
office to defend the criminals and perhaps to save. After all, was the case in the present difficult
because of the farmer rejected and confessed and was too dull or too raw to take steps to do to
save him or to support, if such were ever invented. After some reflection, he continued, It could
probably think up ways to target if one is determined, there was already some acquitted, would
have deserved death as well as the bad Ronco, from the President the tribunal, Monsignor Aloisio,
be it only too well that his voice is cheap, of course, not a small matter, whereas the secular
assessor is to have a cheap tip. Since, however, was Don Petronio, a forbidding man, whose only vanity
and hobby his integrity is he who always play the censor and diligently watch out, so yes below
would not run around with his cooperation, something improper. If you look at this with well-meant
offers of any kind was approaching, they would destroy everything in advance; how to avoid it
or to listen but could do he could yet see no plan, would But consider the matter. A drawback
it be, that the process was under way and only one examination was to take place, whereupon the verdict
in the clarity of the case would not be long in coming. However, he encouraged the two petitioners
to the fact that Good advice often overnight recruiting and gave
them the prey, the time being with the President to bring into compliance,
to be open to him and about a kind of connivance of the Pope to indicate
what would be his zeal a prosperous swing.

Monsignor Aloisio was a beautiful loving husband and cheerful temperament, fond of good living
and allowed to other goods if he only had enough money available, the want of the one was, what could
tarnish his mood in the long run. As he held was that Cardinal Mazzamori and Don Orazio imaginary open
up to him a substantial influx of the estimated metal he took them on in a loud and brilliant hospitality,
and led her through the pompous equipped Rooms in his house, showed them a collection of Chinese
porcelains and promised for his accommodate person with such a cheap and harmless desire without petty
concerns led, however, as the lawyer, the incorruptible Don Petronio in the field, who, his crotchety
Vanity's sake, any attempt to let slip through the poor sinner thwart would. "In my opinion,"
he said, comfortably, "is the fairness of God, it is not always for good will, to enlighten
us. How short is the chain of cause and effect, we can follow! Well, judging by his myopia and
believe, done something great to have if you hang a thief or robber. How often is this a pious
heart in my breast had a good father or friend was fine, while his so-called victims in the
depths the soul, where no mortal eye can see, the color of hell was, if you like the ? Know
Our good Petronio, however only understand the letter and says that our earth Improve if the
paragraphs are in right application. "

After various ideas, go to the targets, were submitted and rejected, separated the men, without
coming to a conclusion, with the fear that they the Singers would still miss. Meanwhile, Don
Orazio received too late in the evening a Letter from the President, who was this: He had suddenly
a strange, but probably reasonable despatch Incident came. In fact, if the Petronio would
have us believe, judge and lawyer were bribed to the Ronco, who, though uneducated peasant,
but good, and nothing but the Victims insidious machinations was to bring to the gallows, and
they all played their part well, The lawyer also can be found willing, hopes, was to say that
Don Petronio his strength used to save the supposed innocence, so that they after a struggle
of some Duration superfluous nothing but to give in to their own
benefit.

The consent of the parties was made hastily. Mazzamori and Don Orazio withholds not with the money,
adding they did not doubt the Holy Father at the end of plenty of them would To replace what they
would have used on the training of such a fine singer. Guido Baldo the lawyer was wearing, worry
that attention by an anonymous Don Petronio Communication on the monster made was the time
a helpless farmer should fall victim to and that the message spread from his home purchase,
and took the humorous greeting by the President him in the presence of the assembled tribunal to
made against rubbing his hands. Himself, said the president, have also in the sense of making
a modest pleasure. The French Minister, who was recalled from his king, and Rome would intend
to leave, a gold Carriage with four horses for sale, and that he had made an offer on, but
know not whether it was accepted. The sum of the lawyer he whispered in his ear, smiling, as he
because in general there are so set up that the release as a confidential, random by the During
the interview had elicited appear. Petronio, who observed the men sharply not slow, its so sudden
extravagance with the shameful perversion of justice to reconcile, to which they had received the
letters to be ready to find. To be sure, he steered the conversation to himself and said Ronco, which
would hopefully now come to an end, for we should keep it, at least in one case is not so clear
Time to lose. The President agreed and the lawyer added, with amiable joke Ender Irony added that
he knew well that he Messrs. Richter, who like to witness a broad development his eloquence would
be so disappointed, but I nevertheless decided, this time Schlechtweg to ask no more words to
a merciful sentence because he deals with the defense of a so depraved offender does not want
to spoil. It sounds different, Petronio said emphatically, as he, Guido Baldo, had previously be
heard. He said then that the reason the the Ronco should have driven to murder, be too small
to explain such a crime, also a common criminal would try to deny the murder to save his life; So
leave it to consider whether the apparent half-idiotic peasant made the Powerful tools is who
considered together with their intentions and resources in the background.
 'T was not guilt, if all the tongues of men and angels should so preach. 'T is in the
later denial of love that guilt lay hid. But these things I did not then know, and I thought
in my simplicity the world changed and the foolish girl become a woman and beloved, and our
lives together in a fair prospect before us.

And suddenly--"Go--go!" he cried, rejecting me and thrusting me from him. "Go, and never again
let me see your face. I sicken--I sicken at what is done. No--no! Speak not, utter not, lest
I strike you and myself dead. Leave me, for God's pity's sake! Go!"

So did the Angel with the flaming sword drive our first parents out of Paradise. I drew apart
shuddering, and he cried after me in a loud whisper:--

"Let none see your face. Go in by the covered door, and so to your room, and plead headache
if Dingley see you. Go."

I left him in the dark. I drew my palatine about my face and none saw; and so to my room, and
outed the light, and sat by the window till the dawn came.

Now, if I am condemned herein, I take the blame, but cannot change my thought. What woman in
giving all met ever so sorry a return--and why? I broke my brain with thinking, and at that
time found no answer. Later, I knew. But to escape the hue and cry of question, I washed the
tears from my eyes in the morning, and so to the housekeeper's room. And he was there, reading
in a great book, and my heart leapt like the last leap of a hare with the dogs on it.

"Why, Stellakin--saucy-nose!" says he, laughing, but his face was pale. He could cheat with
his words, but I saw his face bleacht like a linen clout behind his laugh, and I swear at that
time he loved me, though he loved advancement better. "You are bright and early, young woman!
Are you for the garden, to get you a stomach for breakfast? Well, so-so! and pray for poor
Presto as you go; for in honour and conscience, his Ppt is the child of his heart."

How could I endure this? I closed the door, and left him laughing with white lips.

So went the day, and now I saw his drift. He would hold the little language of childhood for
a shield betwixt us. I should be nothing more for ever than Ppt,--poor pretty thing,--Stellakin,
the pretty rogue. He would not fail in this, but only in all my hopes. He would give me all
but that I longed for. He would glut me with sugar-comfits but never a taste of the living bread.

And next day a new thing. Dingley and I sitting together, he came upon us, and in all he said
included ker. She was his second MD. He was her poor Presto, also. This would remain a mystery, if the solution is not ugly in any other Question would
be: why do not the north tower of the hundreds of young women's church to its completion is collected
for years under the citizenship? As well a builder boasts of his Plans, as Maurer rise to the
heads up and down, is because for years the main portal adjusted with scaffolding, but to the
tower, nothing changes, as that a year after another one new garland of stones on the old will.
Let me note in passing that the hundreds of young women's church As in their idolatrous name, is the Catholic
religion is restricted, we ie a selfish purpose, its completion can not have and we only impartial
A love of justice in this regard neglect and embezzlement trouble. Those I accuse the party of hate
and probably even his are full, will be convinced I laughed at me gleefully and maliciously when
I cathedral towers of the Papists by lightning decapitated or, as in Frost charred stumps fall
prey to the fall look. No, my friends, wherever I see injustice and perfidy under which the community
suffers, stir I do, comparable to the physician, who, when the bell rings on his bell, it was at
midnight and in winter, from the cozy duvet, and jumps through the dark streets Ponds and puddles
of duty lags who shines with modest light on the Confinement, to the death camps, sometimes also possessed,
which, under pressure from their fiendish parasite, against one who is very kind to them and
will drive out the evil share with biting and scratching to defend ... "

Next to speak was not the pastor, for the shouts and cheers, call the Guild Master and other listeners
caused such a noise that not pierce his brave voice could.

When he again was able to be heard, he repeated the last sentence and adds even more full of
glorious views, which he closed with these words from all This well lit for everyone, that the hammer of the
mayor against divine order eggs consider what he had said above, to which he claims, since it
is true to some extent, was not only entitled but even obliged to be, and how he is the mayor,
for it may be time to save his soul, deserves to have been led to believe.

The pastor had not yet expressed, as he congratulated by all sides clapping was because no one doubted his
victory.

Just called the president the other Judges, with him to withdraw to the determination of the appeal, which
they, as significant dropped, no longer would cost a lot of time when something unexpected
occurred that the The course of the case was a different turn.

Under the softening influence of yearning love that is it seemed the
city captain soon as if he had been too cruel to wife Armida, but
as he still in his words, which a some inherent sanctity, had to hold
steadfast, he was enraged against the pastor, who had caused all the
useless noise.

As noted in the course of the process, let that bounced off the mayor with his indictment, however,
and perhaps even women Armida fell into a dangerous Malefizsache, his anger was uncontrollable,
and he secretly switching on his own suffering, by the turmoil he had in mind people can spread,
rather than hailing one from the start with sharp means of humility and obedience. Since it
anyway with the Bishop of Osnabrück, an exceptionally fine man shops to make had, he went to
him and introduced him to the matter were taken on, how many him it would be if the mayor were to
be taken out of the trap, the Reformed Pastor and its annex were issued but a significant lesson
for the future. For this reason, it happened that the bishop was a time in the courtroom and
demanded to Quakenbrück be heard, as he something important in the case of the Lord Mayor had
to testify.

The sudden appearance of the princes of the church was so uplifting that some on their knees fell,
the other at least bowed low and hurriedly, with only pastor splinter stood upright, and bowed
from Würmling only with the eyelids.

Due his impartiality and love of justice Tönepöhl not hesitated, the Bishop in polite ask
to speak words, or even thank him in advance for coming, if he something beneficial in this difficult
trade had to teach. After the bishop, of a corpulent man, had several times had looked to the
right and left, he became a Bring chair rolled up in which he sat down with grace, and from which he
now comfortably from to be looked up and smiled at this and that, which seemed familiar to him.
In meantime, he drew a sparkling snuff box out and said with a smile: "Your pavement is bumpy,
I have leave my car at the gate and let me carry around in a litter, so I am indeed decent come
in, but the good people who helped me were the tongue to evaporate hanging from his mouth, for
they had to jump, so I came at the right time, and this shows the calendar nor the dog star.
"After he had a few more times to the right and left look around, had brought him a bottle
of wine on a board together with a glass, which is on a small table next to him turned, so that
he was now comfortable and enjoyable. "It is fortunate," he said as he took the glass in his hand,
"that today no fasting , otherwise I would fail this refreshing drink, "and then went slowly to
the floating Thing about, by telling the following: He was a year ago, an indulgence for the
Tower to announce, and I have been in Quakenbrück on the occasion house and home of the Mayor
including all the inhabitants, man and beast, dedicated, and this blessing was also the question
Hahn taken by which either of the diabolical nature had become single or never the like had to
be, otherwise it would be the consecration donation avoided, as evil spirits or bad practice is
customary.

Tönepöhl suppressed a slight embarrassment, and said he knew as a layman in secular Things better
than in church decision, but he also to take away the latter and was from trying to touch something
in the church to existing law. Reverence may expressly And if so whether the question really,
accused Hahn of egg-laying and not another have been among the poultry,
which the bishop had ordained inflict upon kindly.

A rooster had been there, the bishop said, affably, a pretty animal of stately demeanor, let
him be him noticed because of its excessively swollen ridge, he had at that time that Comb
with the papal tiara and compared the tap jokingly referred to His Holiness, whose wife is especially
the mayor would certainly still remember.

That the bishop flirts with such huge things, opened Tönepöhl, who was a free spirit, which would be
but not yet dared to make a significant impression, that he began the Bishop to admire as
a peer. He smiled slightly and said that one woman Mayor would like to hear if it was her pleasure,
the presentation of the Bishop add your own commentary.

So when the lady in her burgundy dress like a roaring winds came thither, he waved to a second
chair, because the bishop made a move to get up and offer her his, wherein he is but a little
slow moving and cumbersome.

Mrs. Armida thanked briefly nod and said that the rooster, the consecration of Bishop have received,
had the same, which will now shamefully besmirched by slanderous tongues, suffer no doubt, for
they possessed it for two years and now had no other had.

It would then probably best to fetch the hammer itself, so that the bishop it also recognizes
and judges it would take in the evidence whether anything suspicious about him was noted.

"It pleased me to see again the good beast," said the bishop kindly. "And how It would be, "he
said," if, in order to make it more friendly and because of the comparison, a some chickens
from the farm to the LORD splinters Lüde?

It would be curious to see how this, undoubtedly natural and proper chickens, get along with
the übelbeleumdeten Hahn, if they sense something objectionable in it, or allow it as a suitable
and Mr. Hahn. "

Splinter replied with biting kindness, he did not hold back with his
chickens wanted but consider it so that it is appealing a guilty of
human reason to animal.

"Well," reply the Bishop, "there is nothing else asked of them than to the Bad smell, what you,
I mean, not the mind is subject to reason, but of the simple instinct with which the animals
are especially affected. "

After a few words were exchanged between the parties of this kind, decided Tönepöhl, that the accused
Hahn Splitterchenschen the chickens should face or faced are, however, until the following day when
the noon hour was over, and even to accept was clear that everyone, especially the bishop, who
had traveled incessantly, a refreshment would need.

Meanwhile, Molli boiled and fried so that the bishop served up quite a catering would. During the
meal the reverend man a letter of M. de Kloterjahn was brought to the very sensitive nature was,
and after his reading he said that the City captain soon dwell again with joy in the House would,
as for now its just indignation catch cold a little bit and he would turn to the mayor's style
of love and grace again would if the same could be purified Christianity clean before the eyes of
all the glaze. After the bishop about the great zeal of the city's main, the unruly Spirit of the
subjects and the Reformed and in particular the need to absorb those had expressed irrefutable,
he went to the exquisite dishes of which, like the stars the heavens after a wise and solid
arrangement, the panel circulated, asked after the production of either the housewife and expressed
the wish that meritorious Molli express his satisfaction even in
the kitchen.

Since it is at the end of Traktierung went there, the servants stood lined up along the way
and sought the blessing of the bishop, whose condescension was known to do that, he was fat
and beautiful, with blue eyes and a safe raised nose and a way of dealing, as if he normally
would speak of a throne down to the people. Molli received the distinguished guest in the kitchen
with knee flexion and kiss, which she kissed him on the forehead and both has been praised for
their cooking, and because they are in the interrogation as a brave, wise and have proved their
rule obedient girl. Molli smiled shyly and said she certainly not belong to those who left
a good rule in disguise. First, it is probably about the naughty things have been terrified
that one of the Mayor Rumor has it, and, it would then get even the ruby ​​egg yolks into the hands
of they have lost their heads, but later taken to the more better and served up to her keep
Lord, but was once the authorities and the good Catholic religion remain. The gentlemen of
the court would have held the right thing but to see it on their site to draw, they would have
yesterday by Mr Tiberius Tönepöhl as well as by Mr. Augustus Pineal gland, a beautifully painted
each letter received, in which they asked for the pleasure-like had to be allowed to introduce
as a cook in her house when the Lord Mayor, as but now probably not be otherwise, could of office
and dignity down in disgrace and perhaps even loss of life fell, but she had not replied to expect,
since it would only want to know whether the mayor was really that bad in it, and then from
the looks pulled the two men would have the suspicion that they would have done just about the
honor of a innocent virgin to bring the case. These last words were in a delicate sentient
Sobbing on the rich only by loving persuasion of the mayor and the bishop and could be satisfied
by a cash donation of two finite.

Towards evening Tiberius Tönepöhl reported for a consultation with the Mayor, and carried before
that he unbecoming occur if the poultry in the hall presented the Town Hall would, would thus
like a house with screaming and refuse to be met. One could Garden of the mayor's use it to this
to please: but it could minister Splinter see a disadvantage, which he also would not be apparent
as to invite; his proposal to go there so that the meeting be held before the Linde gates on the
Anger will, where ancient custom practiced by the urban forces and also organized markets and festivals
were. invited because of the snack to the Tile smelt the judge apologized Tönepöhl, he in his
office, the soft movement, a confidential traffic at table fan, should not under, but constantly
had to have the image of the right before his eyes, as if as the navel, on the Indian monks taught
her unswerving attention to the callousness to solidify.

The following morning, pedestrians, cars and trucks streamed out of the gate to the city Anger
was surrounded on all four sides of old, now blooming Linden. Like a Star Body floats in a light
region, it radiates from you so swam the Anger in a Lindenduftgewoge, as if a country blessed Elysian blossomed
forth from the earth crust or hard it blew over. Those who came close to the magic island, felt a
lovely stunning and was in the midst of a magical Fragrance empire drawn where it was nothing
but laughter and love and joy of existence. Only Pastor Splinters and his counsel were pineal gland,
as if their earthly sense with Wax would be blocked, in this summer about drunkenness, as
two friendly between a nation of fools and knaves, and know very well that because of their
superiority and Virtue of which they now can not even entbrechen still want to be laughed at
first and then have to be crucified. The priest rubbed his teeth together sometimes with contempt
and impatience, and he smiled to indicate that he knew well that he star in a comedy; Pineal
face was no longer a divergent, but has become a highly Cheese, do not cut it, can crush more
than a greenish powder. His mouth looked like a rope hanging from the ends of two heavy weights,
and he blinked from time to time about him like a dog in need of a hole in the fence through
which he escape could, but to the full in the abdomen and sluggish, is to exercise this right,
even if he found one. Between Linden were some Council constable to ward off the inflowing people,
but they took it and not just stroll were old and young, so far the power of old trees shades
if they are not only in the ring of the court in the middle of the square ventured.

At the news of the helpful appearance of the Bishop of Druwel Druwelstein was from Bette got up and
came up with festive bright face on the lime green, without leave
by the ridicule and wantonly misled Mrs. Armida.

"Here I was," he cried, "the fray under my horse and got me the bones were badly crushed, but
I worked out and sit upright again, ready for a new way. "Laget So you under the horse, as
it everywhere you looked in vain? "said Mrs. Armida," including it is certainly safer than before
stitch and ball out, but a gentleman is to honor , and is not to get under a horse's carcass!
"Why not," cried Druwel frohmütig, "If you came only with honor among them. I want to see that
the Druwel of Druwelstein not find there is where the Lord God and the law, whether one is
in fear or florieret. Do not despair, stern friend, as long as you see flapping my troop,
your cause is not lost. "" Oh, but for the Lord God I do not need friends, but against the devil,
"said Mrs. Armida impatient, but not bitter, for they had rather a comforting Smile at Druwels brownish
cheek and flashing his tight goatee slide.

The chairman, meanwhile, made with the establishment of the table and with the poultry to create,
that was brought in in baskets. Councilman Lüddeke, the mayor and the Mayor put himself on hand to
extricate the tap from the cotton wool, in which he packed because
of frailty was renewed.

 I thought that last letter I writ was obscure and restrained
enough. I took pains to write it after your manner. I am sorry my jealousy should hinder you
from writing more love letters. Pray tell me, did you not wish to come where that road to the
left would have led you? I am now as happy as I can be without seeing-- Cad. I beg you will
continue happiness to your own Heskinage.

I read, and was silent--reading this letter by the light of a dead sunset. I never dared so
write. There was that between them that he had never shared with me, and yet all his old caution,
as with me. I thought not, however, so much of his feelings as of hers, for I think his care
for women is but skin-deep at-best. He was ever willing to take the tribute of their hearts--nay,
of their lives; but should they incommode him, or trespass across the line he hath marked--this
careless liking is changed to hatred, and he will avenge himself brutally on the weak creatures
that love him.

Who should know this but I--I who have lived beside him and retained his friendship only because
I have in all things submitted to his will--silent to death? Had I anything to lose to this
unfortunate woman? No, I had lost all many a long year ago. She still had hopes; I, none. Why
torture a wretch so miserable?

She kneeled before me, pale as a corpse. 'Twas the strangest meeting. I could scarce hear her
voice.

"Madam," says she, "I have put my life in your hand; for if Mr Dean knew that I had come here--that
I had dared--O Madam, he can be cruel to women!"

I strove to collect my thoughts; then heard my own voice as a stranger's:--

"Madam, to your question, the answer is No. There is no marriage between Mr Dean and me. I
have no claim on him that obstructs your own."

She looked up like one in a stupor of amazement--so dazed and white that I repeated my words.
Then, suddenly, she gathered herself into composure like my own, but her poor lips trembled.
I saw in her my girlhood long dead.

"If I say I thank you, Madam, with all my heart and soul for thus opening your mind to a most
miserable woman, I say little. What is left of my life shall be a study to deserve your compassion.
What would you have me do?"

I replied: "I think you will not fail in what honour and conscience dictate. 'Tis not for me
to say. 'Tis between you and Mr Dean. And now, Madam, will you give me leave to withdraw, for
this hath been a painful meeting for us both."

"Not before I bless you with all my broken heart," she cried, and took my hand. "For I will
now tell you that, for all these letters, I know he loves not me, nor any. I may please him
better than another in moments, but there's no security. He hath a contempt for women that
scorches, and to hurt them--but 'tis not this I would say. I feared to find an exulting rival
when I came to you, Madam, and instead I find an angel of compassion. Sure I read it in your
eyes. In this life we shall meet no more; but in my prayers you will be present, and I beseech
you, as the last favour, to give me an interest in yours, that I may know myself not utterly
forsook. My one sister is not long dead--I am utterly alone in the world."

She could not continue, but kissed my hand, and her tears fell on it. I told her that this
meeting should remain secret, but she needed not assurance. We embraced, and so, curtseying,
separated, she departing first. A good woman, if I have known one. 'Tis of good women men make
their victims. The ill women cannot and do not suffer; they but repay our score. When I reached
home I found her paper still in my hand.

I must now be brief. Mr Dean returned, and all was as before; but I wearied yet more of the
child's play and prattle he still continued for my amusement. He was much engaged with writing.
I thought him ill at ease.

I was seated by the window on a day he will recall, when he entered pale and furious.

"What hath gone amiss?" I cried, starting up.

"This," says he, in a voice I scarce knew, so awful was it; and laid before me the poor Vanessa's
paper that I believed I had destroyed weeks agone. O, what had I done? 'Twas another paper
I had burned, and this had lain in my pocket. 'Twas most certainly Mrs Prue--But what matter?
He had what for her sake and mine I had died to hide.

"Hath that vixen dared to come anigh you?" he cried. "Hath she ventured to disquiet my friends,
the wanton jade, the scheming--" and so on, pouring horrid words upon her that chilled my blood.
'T was terrible in him, that he could so swiftly change to these furies with one he had favoured,
and to a rage frightful to see.

I tried to moderate him, to speak for her; but nothing availed. Finally I rose to withdraw,
for he would hear nothing.

"But I'll break her spirit," he said, with clenched hands. "I'll ride to Celbridge and face
her with her crime--"

I held him back. "For God's sake, no. Have patience. She hath done no harm, and no eye but
mine saw the paper. I pitied her--we parted friends."

"Then you saw her? She came?"

But I can write no more. He tore his coat from me, and so down the stair like a madman; and
I heard his horse clatter down the street, while I prayed for a soul in agony, and that she
might not think I betrayed her.

Hours went by. She was of the tangy
air and the exertion of climbing red, and it seemed to him that they look distracted past him, as
it usually was not their type. Although at the Capuchin, in contrast to her perceive no trace
of excitement, the same brownish pale color of his noble face, his face was as childlike strict as
before, but the Chevalier was a hostile Suspicion not be master, as he had by her pride and superiority
any tort action brought to falter. During the dinner, which in the same farm was consumed by
Mr. Ching, the Princess teased him several times that he had such a gravity to the Pilgrimage
found that his laughter and he had lost only to a future Guide to Pilgrimages are good will,
and if he also jokes politely and humbly had fallen, but he jumped suddenly a sharp, angry look
at her, which she alienated and silent shiver in the making. She got up earlier than last Days
by the table, saying, in this inhospitable region was moist and the evening frosty, she would
visit the camp with their wives, the men want to keep it as they wanted.

So it happened that the Chevalier was left alone with the Capuchins, his breviary from a pocket
and drew his cowl, reducing the long-lashed lids over the flame of
his veiled eyes, still be read for the uplift.

Swelled at the sight of the badly mastered indignation of La Perouse in such a way as he was
expected to burst the chest, against his conscience that it tried to stop, he made his voice strong
and said abruptly to the readers: "You as an entertaining job you received from your monastery!
There must be a delight for a his young man strolling with a beautiful lady like the Princess
through the wilderness. " The one addressed raised his eyes still on from the breviary and said,
"The Princess would be nice be when they happier and happier if they would be obedient. "

The unexpected answer replied the Chevalier in such a big surprise, that he for a while remained silent
and stiff in his chair and only when the Capuchins already read again
preparing, steamed asked as before, as these words are understood,
what such a high-ranking Lady luck to the matter, and who might require
it to obey?

The young monk turned his eyes in amazement at the captain's hand and said, "If them happy, they would not
need to make the pilgrimage, and if it resists God which the emperor
and kings are subjected will not strike you, this Bittgang; because
God does indeed wonder, but not contrary to nature, and will give
birth to a child To leave without her, it had previously received.

Now, if God's counsel is not her husband, but has chosen to another, it should be along the
lines of the Blessed Virgin to submit to the Lord, while it proves to be stubborn and not as the
elector wants to be a mother. "dark red with anger, jumped on the Chevalier and said menacingly:
"You would however, be obedient and do not be refused, if God be with you have chosen for this
work? "should"

Now blush and the marble face of a little boy, and he said with a proud gesture repellent:
Me ", a Promised God, God can not command it. I have the princess, the Opinion of the Church
says, and another has a duty not to ask the world to me. Dienes I also, as far as I'm free,
rich and poor with my life, so you are all but, as far as I am God,
not my powerful.

"

The captain was so felt as if the order of things, so as far in his head had been, by turn to
each other began. He would like to believe that the capuchin a simpleton, but if was not from his
handsome face just above the liquid Understood language, so shining
but at that moment a noble indignation on the opposite he was ashamed
of his immoral suspicion.

"Forgive me," he said, his hand good-naturedly reaching, "You have nothing to do with our driving
and therefore are probably the happier. Allow me, however, that I would like to receive an
explanation: If the marriage is a sacrament, as the church can advise or approve of adultery?
We are Catholics, not heretics or heathens! "

The insistent gaze of the Chevalier freely reciprocating said the brother, here it were expressing no
adultery, inasmuch as God, give to the elector's home heirs, what else is a sin, turning into
law. How this was possible, it was inconceivable for people and could only be interpreted
by the Church not be explained in its essence.

What could be seen as but, the Chevalier asked lively, who was the Messenger of God? Could not
hold everyone to the elect and the Princess with criminal lust Adjust?

"Where criminal appetites is," said the monk seriously, "this is not the hand of God. Whom the
Spirit of the mess no doubt. "Having said this, he leaned with a strong expression of his breviary,
he would give to understand that he hereby hold the debate was over.

The night brought the Chevalier without sleep, looking pale and hollow-cheeked on the following
morning from what in the thriving little man was so remarkable that
the Princess again today took to tease him, while the soup was taken
early.

Again she received in addition to the reply in due deference given to the proud look, they ran through
the strange although they wished to appear as if she had not caught him. led the way back his bodyguard
at a distance and saw the coach after the Capuchin on horseback, as he bowed his head in his
breviary, and it only occasionally turned to an address of the Princess to comply, however, he heard her
laugh, and often not as bright as on the way out, what might be attributable to fatigue.

When they were again arrived at the residence, was the Capuchins of the electoral couples released lovingly
and respectfully, but was not accepting any other gift to as one of the monastery to be transferred
Foundation, which should benefit the poor move.

He also spoke with him in thanking the wish that God would in the pilgrimage of the high female
bless her womb, and she blushed a little, while the graceful gravity of his face is did not
change at a breath.

Even Father and Father Gumppenberg Wildgruber explored in vain, while the report of its young delegates
were opposed, according to the trace of an impression created by
the remarkable journey had left him.

"I fear we have said, no luck with the Jesuit Systema," Father Gumppenberg thoughtfully, "a biderbes,
old German mind does not well, with leave the Spanish tricks. "

"For that very reason," said Father Wildgruber, "we had read the Tyrolean boy! This must have
a hook, and if everything does not deceive me, sits the same in his
understanding, It was now that he is too stupid or not stupid enough
for a so-celled heike constellation.

"

While the fathers anxiously awaited the success of the pilgrimage,
was the Chevalier La Perouse sharp battles fought in his chest, because
the passion for the Princess, the had seized him, took each day and
had to fight so much harder than his office he held in their area.

It did not escape him that the fire that raged in it, they also detected and melted their dignity
and their pride, so that she appeared for a moment as softened wax, which should be shaped by
his hand. Of course it was again dry and moody, like they had never before been against him,
and laid it off to him by not careful treatment to irritate. One evening when they play him,
who was appointed, a game of backgammon with her, unduly long in the waiting room had had to wait because
she and her music master draft gone through to have an opera, and he, already excited by passion
and glowing, is complained about the neglect, she said: "At work I forgot that I am with you wanted
to play, "and said the words so that he understood the pejorative sense, well, the they wanted to
insert. His face was colored dark red, and as he came up quickly on it, There was he threateningly:
"But I never forgot that I wanted to beat you," they tore to him and kissed her so violently,
as if to crush it. With dying and todesseligem Heart, she endured the abuse and was caressing
her to become barely conscious when he released, knelt before her and said. "Now I lay my head
to your feet" The chest still heaving violently, his face pale, he seemed to her more splendid
than ever before; Tears burst from her eyes, and a trembling voice, she said, "I'm the culprit,"!
whereupon she left the room with quick steps.

Henriette Adelaide fought with bitter pain the next day, the decision to the hapless Man to command
and to reject it with appropriate words in the position which and their dignity and honor correspond,
however, and she saw him enter, with the victorious View of the large eyes with his hands, the
fine and well maintained, they touched a cruel and had added to their
pain, their strength waned laboriously collected immediately, and
instead a lady she was him, not unlike a slave over. had such a feeling
they have never felt before, and it was a rush for them to add him
to what State it seemed to her as if she had just been caught up in
the center of life.

Was he not with her, so she was indeed frightened and tortured, but she needed to only to realize the
sensitivity with which she pressed her cheek against his shoulder, to be lifted high above every
dilemma.

Full of worry and fear, the observed Miss La Perouse, what was going on, her brother, to the
she turned to begging and threatening ideas, she referred the interference, and compared with
the Princess she dared to make any suggestion. They knew in their time of need no other Tools than
to cry in church or in her bedroom in front of the prayer-desk and , Pray, and by their presence,
gave her to the office as damsels led it to abandon the two to aggravate the wicked alone. The
tearful face of her partner contributed to this to vote at, the Princess cloudy when removed
from the object of their passion was.

Above all, it took the sight of her husband so that her sometimes when she was in meals sat
opposite him, tears came to my eyes, without being a reason could provide. Such sensitivity
has not previously been their own, as the contrary the radiance of her gaze was blurred by tears
still rare, and the Elector seriously worried their health may have suffered some damage during
the pilgrimage. In general, he thought he had not intended to encourage this, because perhaps
the thought of it strain, was that she did with regard to the lack of heirs disappoint.

One day it happened that the Elector, to distract his wife, she invited him to assist in the
Grotto, where the damaged figure of a nymph by Italian workers restored. An approximately three
years' child, who might belong to this play; on the edge of the basin, from which rises the
bowl of the statue of Perseus, and bent down just with all my body so low over the water, that
the Elector, in feeling, it was in danger , Falling into it quickly took hold and lifted his arm. Immediately
ran one of the workers Add frightened, apologized to the child's presence and wanted to remove
the elector; who made, however, a soothing gesture with his hand
as if it needed the excuse not, and nodded to the child, the sudden
intervention of the stranger first some seemed to be indignant.

His attempts to play with him, had it fallen, without being cheap now, and looked at him defiantly,
looking carefully at where discovered there is a ruby ​​and diamond studded button, which are similar
among other Garb adorned. After a while it had looked displeased look, it took it suddenly
with one of his dirty little hands and tore him to oppose vigorously the Breast of the electors
pushing mode, with a determined shift going on. The Elector laughed expressed a Kiss on the
little defiant child's mouth and said, "Keep this, but the other let me, "whereupon he sat down
and advised the father to supervise it better, so it does not fall into the water.

As they walked quietly Henriette Adelaide pushed her arm through her husband, and when, in Mint
had arrived, the cold and stillag, she grabbed his hand, pulled her tenderly and humiliating to
her lips and said, "Only you I have loved! Only you, only you, "clinging with Voice. After
a moment of surprise, he drew her rapidly, she kissed her and saw her face, said he noticed that
her eyes were wet, and felt that her heart restless knocked. As they stood so, she thought
that it the shameful state in which she lived, must now make an end before it would remove the
power to do so again, and she said, her husband's arm set including: "I would like, dear friend,
the proposal to a Change in my court to make. You know that my father gave me the Chevalier
La Perouse as a steward taking home because I know him since my childhood and used to his handling
am.

Now it seems to me, however, that for a man of his kind and courtly, soft to this office ,
and that he longs for the glorious career of the soldier, and I would like prevent legitimate
wishes in so do not rather encourage. "

The elector looked at large and said firmly: "It's me again some time noticed that La Perouse took
one look at you, which was like a spark. Depends on your application together with the risk
that brings the flying about igniting substance to it? "

She replied bravely by rose a little and straightened his head: "Yes, that is," and wanted to
add the request that he should not pay for the Chevalier have a feeling that they should blame themselves,
not to have suppressed in the bud. But he interrupted her by He said: "What I have not seen is
not. The Chevalier has no debt other than those views, I have collected randomly, and this
I forgive him.

"In its essence and was his attitude, he said it, not something Royal, the Henriette Adelaide
made, they still leaned on him, whereupon he and a kiss on her warm security Forehead and pushed
her through the border Antiquarium, origin and value of different
Art monuments declared that were placed there without one of them,
the eerie Cold would have felt that prevailed in the autumn season
in the wide vault.

Since that day, the elector was inspired by confident cheerfulness, and if he already was always
keen to please his wife, he laid it entirely from now on, the to replace light veil of depression
from her, proud of the cheerfulness of her Being concealed for some time. At the end, he encouraged
her former passion for building and began to speak of the Church of St. Cajetan, they had wanted
to establish, what also did not fail to attract their participation and to swell their enterprise.
Was soon it artificially inlaid table made of lapis lazuli and coral, its surface a dark blue, of
scarlet flamed up sailing through the sea posed, full of plans of Roman churches and the new designs
of the Italian architect who over the summer to forget were advised,
and it was decided that the best councils and one-time spring, with
the to begin work.

As the notes of the strong May sun on the open space opposite the residence a frohgemächliches
handling of workers began to flourish and the people of the Jesuit church was rumored, to be built
there, the pursed Father Gumppenberg again and appeared with a serious accusation against the
elector. This could hear the action without Embarrassment, but he asked in surprise that the
venerable father does not remember Himself to him, the elector advised to have to try it with
St. Cajetan, if The pilgrimage will not bear fruit? He was hoping the whole summer and winter,
and waited, and now he had lost the blessing implored waived and decided to make the concerns
left to determine his house to St. Cajetan, although the same foreign country and the Bayer
in no way is.

In the hope that he is doing wonders legally, he constructed him a worthy altar, so he and
his subjects could offer him thanks and praise for the help he found them in distress.

This declaration is struck while the fighting courage of Father Gumppenberg down considerably,
but he gave his cause not yet completely, but moved to the elector some counter-arguments before:
whether it was because for so helpless and destitute in Bavaria, that equating the most remote
would have access? If the wife Princess, as he would have recommended that after the tradition
of Wooden Alt-Oetting Maria would like to pilgrimage, all the rest have come. If there is not
St. Francis Xavier, St. Michael, and especially the much-mentioned holy Benno would be? Had
not the Holy Benno kept even the bloodthirsty King of Sweden in the fence, that he would be
without the church to do some damage and the city passed by,? Had not Holy Mother of God of some
plague halted who are otherwise consumed and culture would?

What would this kind of reports in the so-called holy Cajetan? And if He also once did a miracle,
we would still doubt whether the good ausschlüge.

So far he did not want to get involved, "said the Elector knew not how it should be understood
that his offspring, the grandchildren of famous ancestors so high, turn out badly should.

Father Gumppenberg apologized that he was so little when the faithful electoral house Servant and adviser,
never meant to suggest. He would also be the first to the Holy to thank Cajetan, should it be
blessed through his intercession the Princess, only give to consider it if the elector would not
only expect the grace to offer it before the thanks as had been always held by a vow. No, replied
the elector-friendly, he intended after all, the saints by his confidence
and his Dienstwilligkeit previously to encouraging.

Seeking a people but for the grace of a foreign monarch to earn through gifts to instead that
it received the reward, and no less deferential he wished to God and His saints to behave.

It was only a small garland of stones in the new stores were built, as the glorious News spread,
the Princess was pregnant, and if God is also merciful legally, the plight of the country within
a year will come to an end. Well built funny and when in time a princely boy saw the cheerful
light of Munich, climbed the walls completely up nimbly, without henceforth anyone else dislike it
loud would have to be dared. Of course only a few years before her death could Henriette Adelaide
in joyous triumph towering dome complete view of the immense floating Rotunda umwölbt sky, smiling.

After
the birth of Crown Prince was the health of the frail princess, although they in untroubled marital
bliss ever after lived and still feel like some magnificent buildings erected and auszierte.
However, it glamorous celebrations fully ordered and beautiful music
and meaningful symbols Dances himself pointed out, was practicing
the Miss La Perouse remorse and repentance, which they believe pledged
by the crime her brother's passion for his mistress was.

Night after night she read for hours in prayer books, and rolled, kneeling on the prie-dieu, tirelessly
Rosaries from, so long her face, her cheeks hollow, her eyes were deeper. This habit wallow,
it caused the fire in the night in a castle, not a little art and Magnificence destroyed and in
addition touches the delicate life Henriette Adelaide, for they could the consequences of terror
and fleeing from the pursuers flame to overcome not died after a moment's bad health, her husband
after the sinking, the only stay still on earth seemed to build a monument to undying grief over
the body and vanishing then for the duration of the peace of the grave he beget.

Ullstein & Co

Berlin


I had a mind to return to London about a month since, when word came that my young rake of
a son would come hither for a few days, with his friend Carew. I knew not the young man, but
remember his father in the Thoresby days, and the old man now being dead, the youth is well
to pass in the world in a small way and hath inherited the old Devon grange.

However, I took this as a sign of grace in my prodigal, and desired Anne to see the rooms prepared
and that she should not attend me with my tent-stitch after dinner, as wishing to keep flint
and steel apart, which your Ladyship will admit was a prudence to be desired. And so went down
to receive the young men.

You are not now to learn that Edward, with all his follies, hath a very pleasant humour when
he chooses, and a tongue not unworthy of his family; and young Carew being very conversable
and well-featured and full of odd stories of the authorities at Oxford and the liberties they
allow themselves under the mask of gravity, the evening past extreme agreeably, and it was
late when I left them to their bottle.

Pratt and Anne Wentworth attended me to bed, and I desired the last to put my pearl necklace
into my dressing-box with the dressing-plate, with which she complied in her obliging manner
and took the key as customary. This done, I dismist them and writ a few lines to my Lord Hervey,
and so to sleep.

The next day we past on the river in a water party and sillabubs at Richmond and what not;
and evening come I asked for my necklace and--Lord bless me!--'twas not to be found. Anne,
pale as her smock, was looking in all corners,--and Pratt, also, but with purst lips as who
should say, "Your Ladyship now sees what copies of whimsies and foundlings,"--till I was vexed
to the blood with them both, and knew not what to say next; the more so, since I had seen Mrs
Anne gathering flowers for the bowpots after sunrise, and young Carew staring after her like
a zany. I don't doubt but what there had been a thousand sweet nothings before I opened my
window. The house was hunted in vain, and all the comfort Edward could give me was the assurance
of his father's anger at my folly in taking a stranger into the house; which is most abominably
true, Mr Wortley loving to find fault and invent it where not found.

By this time Pratt was weeping like a crocodile, and the Bow Street runners sent for to come
and take particulars lest the pearls be sold in Drury Lane. Indeed, my dear Madam, I could
not close an eye for vexation, and to complete it could not but remark that young Carew kept
casting sheep's eyes at Mrs Anne that looked as lovely as a weeping angel, could such be supposed.
How different are tears in one woman and another! Pratt, her nose inflamed, her eyes scarce
visible in swelled lids, might have been exposed to the Duke of Wharton and his "Schemers"
without an ounce of virtue lost on either side; whereas Anne, with the liquid pearls hung on
her lashes as if to replace the lost ones, was a dish for the Gods. 'Tis no manner of use to
scold the Fates for what they give or withhold; but I swear 'tis easy known they are women,
such favourites do they make without reason.

We returned to London without loss of time, and the young men remained on in my family for
awhile--a course I took because the investigators are such filthy drunken beasts as I would
not bring myself to endure their presence, and thought it more fitting that Edward should direct
them. 'Twas more than a week ere they returned, with the news that pearls answerable to the
description were sold at a receiving "ken" about Drury Lane. My blessed offspring, who (by
the way) is grown extreme handsome, endeavoured to learn more certainly, but was told with
surprising impudence that they were likely out of the kingdom by this time. The wretch that
kept the place was took in custody and closely questioned; but naught could be got from him
but that a young madam whom he supposed a nymph of Drury Lane had sold it, saying she had it
from her young cully of a lover, and she would not have the sale known for worlds, but had
occasion for the money. Asked to describe her, he said so many were his dealings as he took
no particular heed beyond that she was handsome, and a way with her, says he, that would whistle
a bird off a bough.

God forgive me--'twas not wonderful I looked at Mrs Anne, and the thought came in my mind how
little I knew but her own story, and my own folly that took up with a stranger on what I might
call a mere spasm of liking. She saw it, for she hath a gift of reading faces, and says she:--

"Your Ladyship, I am sensible that suspicion is like to rest on me, for Mrs Pratt is some time
in your family and I but new come. This is a hanging matter, Madam, and I beseech you have
so much pity for a poor girl as permit me a few days more before I am handed over to these
cruel men. 'Tis the bare truth that, so far from stealing, I would give my life to repay the
debt I owe your goodness. And sure I that restored a jewel unasked am scarce to be now held
guilty. Have pity upon your poor girl, Madam! and delay but till Mrs Lamb and her family return
from the Wells to speak for me."

'Twas so well exprest and carried so much truth that, though I called myself a thousand weak
fools, I could not refuse her, and so set a week and lamented my own weakness in regard of
beauty, that might be a man for the sensibility I have for it but that I detect their little
cunning tricks. You know very well that the concern for the salvation of the community splinters
have led to talk of the infamous tap, the more he might even concede that just this fiery
love of the Good to his native city he had carried away, something as fact added make what was a
first only uncertain guess. It is indeed reprehensible, gave rise only to even such a horrible suspicion,
but one must remember, that one of the rights to the devil and his mistress, as long as it does
not prove him was, and so no one should sacrifice by pounding on a truth that is not revealed
bring it. He would therefore call on the minister dutifully to withdraw its substitution and confess
to the Lord Mayor-free, which is to confess, otherwise the moment would come, pick up where the justice
of their iron feet and march off without Regardless of whom the culprits will crush.

At once the priest rose with a gesture towards his counsel, Augustus
Pineal gland, of meaning, he should not strive for such a trifle,
and said frankly that he was the pagan mischief in the chicken house
of the Lord Mayor so far indicated only lightly have to give in the
Lord Mayor and cover up the mess could not and the community will
be contaminated thereby.

He not concerned himself with the Catholic Church to touch and to undermine the government,
partly from natural peacefulness, and then to the city Mr. Captain, he was the loyal as anyone,
not to tune from the one knows that he heartily in confidential relationship with the Lord Mayor
and remain at his family so much that he speak with him by marriage is. For these Reasons he had set
his disregard silent indignation and deeply tender, the extent consistent with its Duty have been consistent.
Whether he would still want to see how those who God Bids in the dust, so would come into
the dirt, powerful sitting at the wheel, while the good craftsman citizens and people who ate
in their breeding and simple piety acquired eggs should keep their mouths and ducking under any arbitrariness
in? He did not speak up anyway, as long as he only could, but now the mayor would not understand
him, but defiant against him was advancing to him to dig a pit, which had acted openly and honestly
to him, because he wanted to rip the glued sheet of reverence and respect from the mouth and
the truth let out.

In the words of the pastor, the relations of the city's main to the house of the Mayor on, smiling
his counsel Augustus pineal gland, so that his face a diverging Cheese was similar, and gave
a low whistle of himself, which made the audience giggle and an expectant silence in the hall
spread.

Tile Norway, who had not noticed where the whistle came, looked shocked and a little loss for
the opinion that it was an escaped accidentally, and as an impropriety embarrassing, and he cleared his throat,
to reply and at the same time cover up the little incident. But of Würmling turned his head
slightly to him and said, without the eyelids of the to lift his
eyes, both he and the mayor would be quite curious to know the truth;
which should now be presented.

The same is known as a brittle woman, the many Prophets and leaders have had in vain to get free,
Mr. splinter should therefore be cheap proud that he had done it to such a picky person. Of course
he was a meritorious man in the prime of life and need to be a Reformed also about Celibacy, do not
worry.

"First, the pastor replied boldly," to even the best man and Kränzeljungfern , Compete in conclusion
I will then lead the bride to the altar. "

Since hervorzuströmen started because the witnesses, it was as if the airlock of a strong current
is presented.

First came the cook Molli, who pressed her handkerchief to her eyes and sobs could not speak,
whereupon Tiberius Tönepöhl let her cry a few minutes, then gently
comforted her, then gently ask began, her name, how long the Lord
Mayor at the service was and whether they had to do with his cock
ever something have.

At the mention of the rooster began the Molli, who had just recovered a little from to cry again
and said after renewed consolation that they have the beast a few times , But I want to stab
that the Lord Mayor prevent such because he tough and would not be palatable. Here, the interrogation
was interrupted by Augustus pineal gland, which aufnotierte that the faucet because tough,
is probably very old, and Molli asked how long he is already in the home are the mayor.

parting to the question of the chairman, why they have the beast do, she changed her mind for
a while and said that it was the custom to slaughter from time to time, the poultry before
it was too old, since they were also there and always young nachwüchsen, but was admonished
to stick to the truth and reminds us of her oath, as they undoubtedly a deeper should have led
evidence to otherwise not used to their seeming desire to kill.

This persuasion frightened the cook, and she admitted, blushing, that she in fact was the cock
gram , Is because he has an ugly shrill voice, from which she was often awakened before daylight.
Because of the eggs she testified that, although recently several eggs by a special red paint
and Expansion of the yolk had made their concerns, but that they never lay eggs when the tap have affected,
and that many chickens were at the chicken farm where the occurring Eggs on their number and nature
could be attributed to well.

The Chairman was now about to ask the Molli, whether in the home of the mayor much Eggs consumed,
and whether they would enjoy in the family circle or with guests, and when they the latter replied
in the affirmative, who were the guests and how they performed. This has been Molli angry
and said to the guests of the city, Mr Captain and the Lord of Druwel
Druwelstein belonged, and that they needed to take lessons from anyone
about their conduct, and that her, although she was only a cook, possesses
enough education to know that it is inappropriate was to put such
questions to which she would not answer.

Tönepöhl, which result His righteousness never got excited, said, "Dear child, you have to talk
to me, are as if I was your confessor, I should ask you too unseemly things as they were,
"whereupon Augustus pineal gland with squeaky voice occurred to him inconsistent with the law
to ask no less, and he wanted to do and know matter how long the company commonly have been sitting
at table, how Molli food, especially the eggs prepared, and whether the woman had helped Mayor.
The intimidated Molli told how even the Lord Mayor had pounded the eggs with their own hands,
by sometimes come into the kitchen and I was watching her. At these words, lifted pineal gland
his thick head slightly off the shoulders and made Kikeriki what he half-crowing and half
fluting zuwegebrachte very playful, more so than his face, he hardly moved and it seemed as
if the creature would rise like a headstrong Hahnenkraht from his mouth. After the pastor had
asked if the Lord Mayor spoke the grace and whether in his apartment stands or hung pictures
of saints, Molli was dismissed by the benevolent Eyes and pineal gland accompanied Tönepöhls.

Tile stints other servants testified that it does not, the rooster had seen lay eggs, but that he
had something retardant itself and she probably thought themselves capable sorts incorrect;
also how often the City captain had come to visit, how often the Lord Mayor and the woman went
to church, were that they had no children and what this could be about what for expenses they
drove, how many skirts, petticoats, furs and bonnets would have the mayor, that they all get
paid plenty and in time received and otherwise, what the house came, would be paid to the penny.

Then
came the friends of the house, the first Druwel, who previously with a strong cup drank wine had courage
and, therefore, came along with glassy blue eyes and rosy cheeks,
that a displeased murmur ran through the ranks of the guild head.

He had, however, but too little drunk and he did not quite succeed with the swearing, the sweat
was it drops to the temples, and he had to ask for a chair, though his age, gout and endured campaigns
vorschützte. Because of the cock he wanted from apologize in advance that he knew absolutely nothing
of it and understand even a simple Man of war was: but the chairman told him, smiling, that
he was only to each individual had to answer questions truthfully, and he was harassed because
of course worse than he had imagined. Soon he had admitted that Mrs. Armida had killed the
rooster do, that she had been driven by insuperable aversion to it,
and that the Mayor they have prevented it.

Completely but it startled everyone that it is the wife Armida failed, despite its firm commitment
was to kill the cock, which, according to the testimony of several Experts who were immediately
summoned, no serious business is, but by Below neck of each child could be effected. On that
occasion rose pineal gland and demanded that the cook will Molli summoned again, so we were told
whether been common for mayor was to kill the birds by throwing stones, otherwise It was very
surprising and distressing that Mrs. Armida to such a tedious and cumbersome Transport was
determined.

Tönepöhl, the chairman, was unhappy with this turn, because he had noticed that pineal gland
Molli had thrown on an equally great affection as himself, and the growth of a offer such a feeling
no opportunity since he was also found that love to like Threading the dignity of the court in its place
was not, and therefore refused on the grounds every one had from the facts that have been taught
by Druwel Druwelstein, sufficiently can form his opinion, for if the woman mayor frequently chickens
by throwing stones have killed, or had wanted to kill, it would either her better at the Hahnemann
have succeeded, or they would because of the inconclusiveness of the common use long have given
up. While everyone marveled at the ingenuity of Tönepöhl and rejoiced pineal gland is irritated
so much that he green delivery points, and it was covertly legally a ferocious hostility between
the two, the identified herself as a rival.

The Druwel was still being questioned for several hours, first on the relationship of the city's main
the Mayor, on habits of the latter church, whether he thought the fasting, if he sometimes
buy indulgences, but also about his own lifestyle, how much wine in the cellar, he was whether he
had ever played the lottery or dice and the like, so that, to Home arrived on the spot put to bed and
move to no longer had to get up.

After all the friends of the mayor and all the dealers who supplied him with goods, and all Council
employees were heard, came to the conclusion, a night watchman, which the tap frequently the
incorrect time, namely at midnight instead of three clock, had heard crowing, and a thief,
who had about a year ago in a neighboring house to the Mayor want to break in and now was
serving his sentence in prison.

This testified that at that Night all the windows in the house of the mayor would have been lit and a
great sound would be penetrated by Bankettieren in the garden and the street that there is a
pretty blasphemous Impression was made on him and he had fallen into doubt whether he implement
his project should, but because so many people would be alive next door. He would, however,
but it remained, because He had told himself that in such a frenzy
and not to be gentle Sentinel remember being would, how it was done
really well, so that everything came out well would be, if not in
the house where he was doing it, the people on it by a screaming child
would hear.

This, said the president, we could probably close the witness interrogation. Although it would have
nor reported to a hundred, the remarkable things about the mayor and it Affected by put forward
would promise, but he believes that it is now collected more than enough material, it is could
form an opinion, and he wanted it at that so that the process can yet again came to an end and
again by the way justice could be maintained. For instance, it would still questioned whether we should
call upon the city governor, what he called a brave and justice-loving man would readily do,
if it brought more light into an existing dark would. He saw his hand but bright enough, so he,
however the other judges or the Plaintiff and defendant did not want to prejudge. Since no
one in regard to the city's main wanted wanted, or said, gave the following day the chairman
of the Würmling the Word so that the action of his client, he briefly and intelligibly is
founded.

Mr. Engelbert, during the interrogation usually the goateed face pale in the Having slender
hand had been sitting, as if he were asleep or thinking of something else, opened the eyes
a little and explained that the priest at all most inappropriately had something in the pulpit made
against the Mayor, as the Reformed Preaching would be permitted only under the condition that
they are quiet and obedient in all things behaved and neither by word nor deed against a high government
showed defiant, to prove that he was reading several decrees from the past. He also gave a great
Demolition of the Constitution and the rights of mayor and aldermen, which the subjects committed
to nothing other than guilty to obedience, which grossly by the pastor was injured, and gave
several examples, such as in times past because of cheeky fellows would be beheaded or drawn
and quartered without words, to prove that he, again, some sections
read from the books of the city.

And it came to the subjects and the Reformed pastors in particular was banned, the authorities
hold something shameful or nachzusagen, even if it were true, it is beyond all expression criminal
and a public danger, when the same was invented and a lie, and this is just the case here. The
mayor was more than sixty graying years old and in honor, have communicated more often and confessed
to never against missed the discipline and stagger to the grave, so that it would touch everybody
and it was absurd from the outset, such a man with a suspicious devil's work related to . Bring
The main thing but this is that the egg-laying of Gockel's never proven to be consider to be,
because he was not from anyone affected thereby nor even before the assembled Court had passed
a test of his perversion.

"Oh," cried the priest, springing up, "there would probably every Kirchenschänder and matricide go
free if the judge believed his evil deed, until they in their assembly had presented as a spectacle!
Nature is not worthy of this basilisk a hundred times the statements of so many innocent people
shown? Does not have an unspoiled Virgin, Molli cook, to read from their watery eyes, was
how unwilling they contradict their Bread Lord witnessed stood their insurmountable horror of
the terrible beast? Have not all who came into contact with him, which is why age, class and
race they were, the same inexplicable sense of horror, as if an inner Warner, felt in the
heart? Not watching the mayor even the Höllenausgeburt with hostile feelings which is to poison
one of the female nature otherwise strange murder? Even if the satanic bird say never with the
permission would have laid eggs, it must still clear to everyone have become, that he this and
much else INCAPABLE, its origin and connection, which I will not
be described in detail, according to.

"

At this point, Augustus pineal roared so loudly that a general laughter and applause was the
speaker and was able to continue after a few minutes.

Whoever will give tidings of him to the churchwardens of St. James's Palace, so as he may be
got again, shall receive four shillings and sixpence reward.--N.B. This reward will not be
increased, nobody judging him to be worth a crown."

Impudence indeed! But I hear from Lord Hervey that she is counselled by Sir Robert Walpole
to invite Madame Walmoden hither from Hanover, to amuse his leisure. 'Tis done as you might
throw a bone to a dog, while Her Majesty and the Walpole pursue the business of governing.
I have no sort of liking for either, but own, had that woman been a man, she had been a great
one, so entirely does she subdue her heart and all the femininities in her to what her reason
demands. When she dies, and it can't be long first, from what I hear, the fool she leaves will
drift like a stick in a stream.

Well, I sicken of England and of the town and the wits and all else. My mind is made up to
quit this country ere long, and seek peace abroad, where I found it when I was younger than
I am now. Folly! I tell myself so, and yet I will do it, when one or two businesses I must
attend on are finished. 'Tis not that I am a lamenter over that I have told you. I care not
what happens to my prodigal, and had sooner be out of hearing of his doings. When a cup is
broke, throw it from you and think of it no more. But whether 'tis the spleen or the vapours,
I have a mind to cross the water and seek a new earth, if not a new heaven. Here I am in neither,
but in purgatory. Quelle vie!--'Tis what I say daily.

Adieu, my dearest Madam--may it not be long before we meet.

Inviolably yours,

M. W. M.

(The son of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu was the misery of her life, and it is the historic truth
that he made much such a marriage as I have described. It is said he turned Mohammedan after
the death of his parents. A portrait of him in a most aggressive turban is in existence. The
reason for Lady Mary's leaving England in 1739, and returning only to die in 1762, has never
been known.)

Maria Gunning Countess of Coventry 1733-1760

Elizabeth Gunning Duchess of Hamilton and of Argyll 1734-1790

"'Tis a warm day," remarks George Selwyn in a letter to Lord Carlisle, "and someone proposes
a stroll to Betty's front shop; suddenly the cry is raised, 'The Gunnings are coming,' and
we all tumble out to gaze and to criticize."

The two lovely sisters from Roscommon in Ireland, introduced by their beauty, were the sensation
of fashionable England in 1751. Maria, a year the elder, was the more dashing and at first
the more conspicuous of the two. She became Countess of Coventry, and died at twenty-seven.
Elizabeth married the Duke of Hamilton, after his death, refused the Duke of Bridgewater, but
later married the Duke of Argyll. Four of her children were Dukes, two of Hamilton and two
of Argyll.

So much Irish luck and beauty kept the Gunnings constantly in the centre of court affairs.
A poem celebrating their conquests was entitled, "The Grand Contest between the Fair Hibernians
and the English Toasts."

The Queen of the Bluestockings said of them, when she saw them together, "Indeed very handsome;
nonpareille, for the sisters are just alike take them together, and there is nothing like them." But now it seems to me better to halt at the border of politeness, I owe you,
men see the light that powerful players with the murder of a innocent tenant family may still be
served with the execution of a Ronco, and that what I uttered it, nothing but the phrases and
guesses were that a skilled Lawyer must always have in stock. "

"You, my dear," the president said with a cheerful countenance against Don Petronio, "smell everywhere
Injustice, because your generous impulse to assist the persecuted, the opportunity must provide
for action. Oh, the wickedness is less interesting than you think! Are we seeing it's not
every day that the crude rabble scuffle with each other and stings? We need to invent fables to the
to make them understand. "

Don Petronio, which nothing more insulting than if he was not taken seriously, now began a direct
attack, where he continued during the appearance of a quiet, uncontrollable sought to be mental. On the
fate of the Ronco is not located, he said it was crystal clear. He was not much more than an animal,
be it that stupidity or brutality that his humanity have disturbed. You may not believe that
he had sympathy for Ronco, for himself as for others it might be best if he would be removed from
the temporal. Such considerations but it would never stop, nachzutrachten of truth and justice
in pursuit of . Share Just to justice and truth if it were for all, not about the welfare of applicants
or Defendant, especially not his own. He wanted none of that would know Ronco, not know whether
he had his wife and children, relatives or friends. Such an attitude is Although the present
era alien, the more will he hold on to it. He will never Estates Investors can buy or art collections,
perhaps not even good, he pins his Action, it was enough for him, truth and justice to which he
was obliged to have served to non-profit.

The opponents could remember a certain irritation, and there ensued a controversy that still
was in progress, was presented as Ronco. This had never been previously claimed seen, for Don
Petronio was any question that the president addressed to him, a different set in the following,
which had the purpose, yet cunningly buried truth to . Promote So much Wilde had been noticed
that one of its high side to take had begun, almost working to its liberation, and his much discussed
butt and brutality did not prevent him to feel this prospect as pleasant, and his aides, as
far as he understood it to work in his hands. Sometimes he understood the meaning of the cross
and across him questions so well that he gave answers that the truth of his earlier Statements
in question featured an evil, and brought confusion in the process been so smooth. On such occasions,
each time Don Petronio threw a serious, passionate researchers Look at his adversary, a seemingly
more complicated and heated and against Ronco violent and threatening nearly drove off, making him
into such a mood shifted, for its purpose just the right one. For he began gradually, for a considerable
person to keep, and if he already with him and his crime was quite satisfied was, he now fully
believed that he was not loud-mouthed by the Tribunal need to put up with that in no way was better
and probably more stupid than he is. He now not explanations, which would start up with something,
but he affirmed what Don Petronio him diligently put in the mouth that he is not the crime
of his own accord have committed, but that he had been incited to really forced, but not should
say by whom, and concluded, we should condemn him to death he would be satisfied but he was
innocent and less a murderer than would be the ones taking him to the gallows would bring.

However, as soon after gave the conspirators do not, but they lined up as if them eager to deliver
Ronco, and the accusation made against Don Petronio, as did he the fox, who was already in the trap,
a stay behind and keep them open unnecessarily at an outlying and
foul things up.

This makes them excited that more and more, so that he laid undertook to help the noble truth
prevail, allowing it for effort and want to enter annoyances.

The coincidence was that it was Don Petronio, a fact not previously known to determine that the
murderer was cited both as the murdered owner free farmstead years ago and once with the Lord,
from whom they had the land on lease, have been in dispute was because
he was totally dependent tenants want to depress.

It was subject for Petronio little doubt that this gentleman, a Aldobrandini, the two headstrong
Men who dared to defy him trying to get rid of once had, when he incited them against each other,
and although he decided not to expose the guilty, in any event too powerful, smart and was torn
to be caught, he would get hold of him but the victim, any more be worth it in itself might participate.

Meanwhile
the master had the chapel, Don Orazio, a final debate with Ronco, who had himself prepared to find
much persuasion, he would be acquitted, as a singer to enter the service of the Holy Father. He could now play
his role better and behaved more boldly every day, so that the whole tribunal finally the moment
longed for, where would the burden of his protege can throw. The joy and satisfaction was on
all sides of the same size as the acquittal took place when the President
and the lawyer could remember nothing of it, but to conceal the anger
and shame seemed in order to amuse the more better if they were among
themselves.

Only Cardinal Mazzamori went through bad times, because the evil spirits of his mistress Olimpia
increased, since he had done in the matter of her young cousin's nothing. He liked still so
much protest that he had done everything possible to try to save him, but that the Justice would
have to take its course, and that it is no less than they grieve: they persisted in, he would
not let him trouble free, because his love for selfish to her Nature, it just do not enjoy, would
act or sacrifice, and they punished him by a nothing to be elucidated
sadness.

The pity for their unfortunate aunt, she said, had opened her eyes at once for the miseries of
life, so that they are on the ground Things and find delight not only in devotion to God, some
comfort can. Really she was rarely to be found more at home, but stayed dressed in black churches,
where it soon before this, soon before that altar, broke into tears. She received a friend
Once, they invited him to speak of spiritual things with her, and when he her on this field could not
make satisfaction, she held him with great bitterness, that he gave his Profession do not understand
and let him see that he was not much better than a hypocrite and Be cheater. She felt deeply
unhappy and deprived of all that, what used to their existence had given support and content.
It seemed to her that was her husband, from whom she now has long was separated, in fact have been
much more acceptable than the Cardinal, in that he but had spent nothing higher than it was. When
she called back the time where Mazzamori her love had aroused so she could in all those scenes
between them occurred were related to the magic of poetry no longer the one they used in their
imagination Gold had. What was it, she thought, well, different and more noble been, but what
is commonplace in every corner and play often enough to irritate laughter and disgust? How
much they was trying to find something special and honored at the Cardinal, their conscience wanted
to tell her nothing except that he was an unchaste beast like the other men also with the difference
that it's yet to be sacred to a hypocritical liar made. She would prefer not seen him, and
if she sometimes still longed and assumed his visit, they did it mainly to let him feel what
they want from he thought, and how unhappy she was.

A heavy downfall was the Cardinal that the darkened mood of the beautiful Olimpia it offered
him far more likeable than before. Her eyes, because he was so full of soul had become attracted
him more than it had ever done her sensual glowing, and her humble Sadness that he should
have appealed to fend off with his pity and admiration at the same time his most sincere love
feelings. How much richer and raised it seemed to him, since it's no longer needed! When he watched
them with mild and understanding poor People bypassed - because they now sought opportunities to the
needy to prove beneficial - When he heard how clever and free them knew how to talk about all
the relations of life, it seemed to him like a born-again, far removed
from him twice and desirable.

He made an effort to respond to their new ideas, without having anything other than ridicule and
bitterness would have picked it. Olimpia took these efforts, which were not considered the matter,
but only an emanation of his love, were ridiculous or even offensive, and was encouraged by them
in the belief that the Cardinal was a shallow hypocrite.

In the hope that the tie him slipping away, and their worldly interests again little fanning,
the cardinal told her about the wonderful tribute singer that his friend Don Orazio had recently
met and purchased for the papal service. This singer was, he said, followed by adverse fate
cases and under very strange circumstances Orazio was discovered by Don, also it would be even
more secret. Certainly had he the most wonderful Voice possess, have ever charmed an Italian
ear, and the result of a thorough Training, they will now undergo win, nor should. The means were
Orazio and he lent, since the singer was mentioned by the blows of fate become destitute;
it will regretfully not the victims, as each note as from the throat
blessed the nobler gold was what they had spent.

If Olimpia was inclined to hear him, so he wanted a Opportunity to organize in his home.

Meanwhile, Olimpia was too absorbed in their gloomy views to get any please let distractions like,
it was not quite what they removed it, only the welcome, which encouraged them. Beautiful song
would you love most, she said, but too dearly bought, when she, in the presence of others, even among
some social preparations must hear. Could they go to the singer and her show his art, without
them in their solitary contemplation disturbing, it is possible that they would enjoy it. This
did The Cardinal does not now set up, for once, he did not know whether Ronco, who is cocky greedy
and unfolded, without further ado, and especially without the prospect of significant Benefits
would understand this, and he also not apply to the conduct of his protege had responsible, daring
when the same without compulsion and supervision would have been
alone with a lady.

So he had to wait for an opportunity to make Olimpia with the miracle man known and such offered
itself as well as the singing master, who gave him lessons, his Vote for such training, said
that in his presentation at court there is nothing in the way of.

The pope had to attend the concert, which was held in his chambers, a small selected group music-loving
friends gathered around him, under which Cardinal Mazzamori, as to the Fund so deserving, could
not miss. And he had willingly allowed was to bring his girlfriend Olimpia, the refuse an invitation
from the Holy See is because it dare not. Although she chose a hairstyle and clothes, dark and
simple, against the former lover of its abundant ornamentation contrasted far, and remained
well modest and almost bashful in the background, but that her tender flesh so sweet shone forth
from the shadows, she had by this event but can not prevent.

Innocent was unclear, a fine, little old gentleman with a delicate
face, with some Eyes, a curved pointed nose and a thin-lipped, usually
friendly mouth.

He accepted the homage of the guests quickly and let each one some joking words , Where it was
coming but noted the impatience about the upcoming demonstration. As It was a minute over time, to
which they had ordered the singer was a nervous Twitch around his eyes visible, and looked
anxiously Mazzamori of the precious decorated Clock that stood on the marble fireplaces, the door,
he was relieved when they opened, and Don Orazio, entering, begged for the honor to present the singer
Ronco. Ronco had made in the time of its preparation, a guide to its future conduct, the simple,
but nevertheless was exceedingly useful, namely the approval of the Pope to purchase and it
only addressed his constant attention.

Inspired by this resolution, he went straight, the eyes with a certain haunting intensity to the
lofty goal found on the old man, fell down before him and kissed his feet and remained in
this position, as he folded his arms over his chest. This childish gesture of ardent Innocent devotion
touched so much that he instinctively her lips on the forehead and hands pressed the broad shoulders
of the man kneeling before him, whereupon he with encouraging Welcoming words and asked to stand
up and sit down. Almost afraid the old gentleman, the devastating feeling of being at the
first time in his presence, could the singer the power to deprive his throat, but it turned out
that the strong man with the devotion the innocence of a child brought together, for without
affected by the slightest tremor to be, rolled the first sounds like big shiny beads in the hall.
As a result of an arrangement of Orazio he first started singing the folk song he had heard
in prison and Mazzamori of him and in any case as something new and disconcerting sensation and
made an impact.

It was as if the wand of a magician had touched the hearts of the audience, each one appeared Love
in dreams, all the best moments, that they remembered and they hoped, and a sweeter scent exhaled,
as the crushed übrigzubleiben reality maintains. Olimpia was overcome by a violent pain, but
this was not depressing like the one which she had given up for many weeks in varying kinds,
but penetrating and pleasant, as a force that seemed to carry her up to the common life. She felt
what she once been as a girl was what they expected from the future and what they do themselves
would and want to win, and with the terrible realization at the same time, how far from this
goal departed, she thought he knew that it depended only on them, again the pure, strong and joyful
spirit of that time being. They did not cease its relationship with Mazzamori to repent, but she
blamed herself at that moment that she had treated him with harshness,
but not because he alone, but they too have sinned, and he is not
her but the possibility could steal from the wrong ways, which led
to them, to rise to clarity.

It appeared its like a miracle that they had been brought, despite their reluctance in the vicinity
of the man was whose voice it was so comforting, and it thereby almost like an emissary of God
wanted to appear. From the corner where she had taken place, they could be undisturbed heroic
figure and admire the dark face, shake it made its ferocity.

Ronco was the solicitous care he had for some time inflict upon can only become more beautiful
on the way out of a shabby hungry wolf was a well-fed is, but this was enough for all to see
on a dazzling and overwhelming impression . Make The enthusiasm was universal, but no one disputed
the Holy Father made the right them to comment first. The little man sat with flushed cheeks,
tapped here and there in the Hands, shouted, "Bravo! bravo! "shook his head and interrupted
the song too well with exclamations of delight: "Ah! Which approach! How sweet! What invention!
"If the cadences out of a cornucopia of plenty flowed from his mouth. It increased the admiration
Olympia, that the singer does not look at society, let alone in her corner threw, and he seemed
to be there and sing at a sign or just to the Holy Father . Silent They had to compare him an
archangel, who, armed in full glory, humble the command of the Lord of hosts expected.

Only when the company got up and broke up, a look of the singer fell
on them, of more than indifference to express the devastating contempt
seemed.

She closed the fact that he knew had relationships in which they stood by Cardinal Mazzamori,
so its Opinion still stands, and that he consider this reason for a rejected, what they basically
any case.

In reality, the singer neither they nor any attention from the listeners, as it was doing to
him at first only to the pope and he needs at all of the women still do not Taste had won. Gradually,
however, provided an understanding of it, and now was his devotion not go unnoticed, with the
looked up to him the beautiful Olimpia. He flattered not a little that the mistress of Cardinal
Mazzamori him this prestigious influential, charming and educated man who preferred it to the
offending one anyway lively drive felt in himself. The more his position with the Pope in Rome
and attached to the more intolerable to him, the two men to whom his past was so well known, so
that he dealt with the idea of ​​it if they would offer an occasion
to remove from Rome.

In the first days following the concert, Mazzamori was highly delighted with the success. Seemed
have voted but the beloved soft and accessible to women. All the cutting was his Disappointment
when she told him, albeit in kind words, their steadfast determination
told to break off all intercourse with him, as it is a new, purer
life now in God would begin.

Then he saw that any attempt to make her disloyal intent, failed, he was found and struggled with
the plan already, you emulate to her at least in the regions of renunciation to meet again when
he drew attention by teasing known to the delicate threads was that between the singer and the penitent
went back and forth. He was also convinced that Olimpia nothing at present as the enthusiasm of
a receptive mind for the voice, in of something divine seemed to be obvious, he doubted it cheap,
if the violent Bauer a similar elevation of sensation was capable he believed the contrary, the
intention draw down the woman in the depths of his sensuality.

This he was a certainty, as rumored, the singer had asked a few days to leave and get such a well
to save somewhere in the mountains or the sea's voice, which been to the preservation of the
doctors said for quite unnecessary. Beside himself hurried the Cardinal to the Pope to inform
him about the danger of his opinion a noble friend threatened, and
how criminally the goodness gracious sovereign will of the abused.

The old man barely noticed that it was an attack on his favorite, as his Lips pinched together
angrily. He himself suffered from his impending absence, had his request but wants to ride and
set an example of self-denial, had he the brilliant magician not even an adventure in which
he raged to authorize? Was he himself was but young! And how much was needed more than another of
the fiery, the Rousing, the prodigal supply of new forces that he, the Pope, and all who heard him,
would be given back!

When he introduced himself as the leonine man the first time had their arms crossed over his chest,
knelt before him, he used to tear into the Eyes connect. He never had deviated from this since
childhood and chivalrous devotion. Although hot temper and arrogant mind, just as he in dealing
with other people often surprised by unbridled temper and rudeness, he approached him, the
Holy Father, the dainty little man, never without servility, he took
it from him any criticism with humility and patience and called on
any matter against his sentence as the highest, as it by God himself,
done, it's the bow to him apparently, both pleasure as mandatory bid
was.

As he sat back in his chair, looked astonished the Cardinal and Innocent asked for an explanation
of the share, he would take on the holiday and the tour of the singer. A little blush, the
Cardinal said that it was the Holy Father may not have known that Ronco to make the trip in
the company of a lady, remember a lady with whom he has not in kinship or conjugal relationship
stand in as much as was known to him.
 A
noble square of Limerick point was flung over her head and hung veil-like by each ear; and,
indeed, with the little cherub Lucy at her feet, she might have sat for an aging Madonna.

Kitty was bundled off to the camp-bed in the back room; and sure the picture was homelike,
if you studied the handsome lady rather than the ragged chairs. 'Twas the best they could do,
poor souls, in fifteen minutes, and wonderful in the time. 'Tis women for quick thinking and
quick acting where men are concerned; and, indeed, the look of astonishment Mrs Gunning gave
as the three entered was inimitable, though already she had every particular set down in her
mind. She swept the stateliest curtsey, and cast a rebuking maternal eye on her daughters,
ere she addressed Mr Lepel.

But, when explanations were made, how did her brow clear and a fair-weather smile efface the
frost! She welcomed him with cordial kindness, with such reminiscences of his family as warmed
his heart; and though no hospitality was offered save one,--a bottle of generous claret in
a silver cup enriched with the Mayo arms,--'twas given with such good-will, and served by so
lovely a cup-bearer, the fair Maria, that the man does not breathe but must feel it worthy
of the three ladies who tendered it. He toasted them one and all in turn, and if his bow to
Elizabeth was a little lower, that circumstance did not displease Mrs Gunning.

"I leave you to judge, Mr Lepel," says she, "what it costs a mother to see her dear ones exiled
from all the little gay scenes where it would become them to appear. But what can I do? My
father's grandchildren, Mr Gunning's daughters, can't appear except with propriety; and why
should I hesitate to tell so kind a friend that 'tis beyond my power?"

'Twas discussed between them all for an hour as to the Birthnight ball; but Mrs Gunning was
resolute, nor could Mr Harry dare to make the offers that trembled on his lips. He could have
groaned aloud to think on the sums he wasted nightly on gaming--one half of which would have
adorned these beauties and set them free to flutter their wings in the sunshine of fashion.
Later Maria, half-smiling, half-sad, told how they were promised luck by the old witch of Dublin,
though she gave not all the particulars. She built not on it, she declared, nor yet did Elizabeth;
and she, a soft sigh parting her lips, confirmed her sister: "the more so," says she, "that
none of us can imagine what is the Golden Vanity. Is there such a ship, to be the ship of our
fortunes? 'Tis that it sounds most like."

He shook his head. Mrs Gunning softly remonstrated:--

"My dears, be not giddy, nor let your heads run on such follies. There is no such name and
no such thing and 'tis impossible--"

More she would have said, but a man came crying somewhat down the street, and beside him went
another with a flambeau, that he might read a paper in his hand, and what the man cried was this:--

"Let the fashion of Dublin, both ladies and gentlemen, take notice that there comes presently
to the theatre in Aungier Street the dramatic company which Mr Sheridan presents to his patrons
in a new and luscious play, by name--"

But here was the speaker's voice drowned by a wagon passing on the cobblestones.

"What is it?" cries Mrs Gunning, running to the window; for indeed she loved the play as well
as did her girls. And, as if the question had reached him, the man turned towards her and bellowed
like the bull of Bashan: "The Golden Vanity!"

The little company within stared transfixed upon one another.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the next fortnight did the three live in a kind of rapture; and 't is not to be wondered
at, the name coming so pat on the prophecy. And sure, Mr Lepel was no less moved; for he took
a deeper than brotherly interest in all that touched them, his heart being caught that day
in Dublin streets; and if he then thought Elizabeth a beauty, it took not a week to rank her
an angel. Before the week was out, he laid his heart and the reversion of the baronetcy at
her foot, not regarding the worn little shoe that cased it. For, indeed, the sisters wore the
same size, and Elizabeth being the better mistress of her wardrobe, 'tis to be feared she sought
often for her own, to find them gadding abroad on Miss Maria's feet and herself left to luck.
'Twas mortifying, and her heavenly blush was as much owing to this circumstance as to the gentleman's
ardour.

However, taken by Mr Harry's fine person and clothes (and which was the most potent is not
known), she accepted the heart, and he set about to inform his father of his good fortune,
for mother he had none. 'Twas with inward quakings, for beauty, were it Helen's own, is but
a blunted arrow against a seasoned heart of seventy: and Sir Francis Lepel had reached that
discreet age. 'T was vain to tell him of celestial eyes and roseate bloom. God help us! 'tis
little he cared for the like. The baronetcy was poor and Mr Harry expensive, and what Sir Francis
looked to was a fat balance at Child's the banker's. Was the lady a fortune? And when Mr Harry,
trembling, avowed that a single doit could not be hoped in that quarter, the old gentleman,
his temper as well as his foot highly inflamed with gout, swore to disinherit him if the matter
went further.

Poor Harry was in a sad quandary. He slept and ate ill, and 'twas provoking that Elizabeth
bloomed like a rose and troubled not her fair head about Sir Francis. Her mind seemed possessed
with but the one thought--to attend the Birthnight ball and, like the planet Venus, shine in
her rightful heaven. And indeed Mr Harry could not fancy her heart so deeply engaged as he
might wish; for he could scarce get a word in while the two peered into the mercers' shops,
gloating on satin and muslin. Mrs Gunning, as improvident, was almost drawn in by them, when
word came of a card debt that their papa owed to Sir Horatius Blake, and the unfortunate lady
received not even the pittance that provided herrings for six hungry mouths; so that they were
like to come down to dry bread, which event fairly ended all talk of the ball.

'Tis not to be supposed that Mr Harry did not offer to set all the mantua-makers in Dublin
to work, though in his heart he knew his own credit did not stand immaculate. He stormed up
and down the room, protesting, vowing, exclaiming; but Mrs Gunning would have none of it. Says
she:--

"I do all justice to your kind heart, Mr. Lepel, but 'tis not, because we are unfortunate,
that we have no pride, and 'tis impossible Miss Gunning should accept garments from the gentleman
she honours with her hand."

And Elizabeth, lovelier than ever in grief, confirmed her mother, Maria stamping her foot like
an angry goddess. 'Twill be admitted 'twas a hard case. And since misfortunes don't come alone,
arrived a furious letter from Sir Francis, demanding instantly to see Mr. Harry, and acquainting
him that his appointment in the Guards was cancelled, and he must join his new regiment in
London at a day's notice. Sir Francis had good interest with the lady whose interest with His
Majesty was unquestioned, and 'tis to be thought this event did not come by chance.

Oh, then were wailings and passionate embraces on the part of Mr. Lepel, Miss Elizabeth receiving
them with wondering eyes. "For London, is not so far but we shall meet again, Harry," says
she, with her angelical smile.

He had preferred tears, no doubt; but a man must take what comes his way, and be thankful.
He, who had never before been guilty of the like, now composed a set of verses of atrocious
demerit. Indeed, the first two lines will suffice:--

    If from my Chloe's snowy breast I part,
    Grant me to know I bear with me her tears.

"'Tis very pretty!" says Chloe. "O Harry, I would you did not love me so! A girl's affections
are cool and temperate, I think--at least 'tis so with me. Forget me a little,--though not
too much child,--and be happy."

It might have been her mother who spoke. 'Tis certain no person ever had the appearance of
sweet simplicity more than Elizabeth Gunning; but whether 'twas wholly devoid of art--Ah, well,
shall we dissect the rose? Best to enjoy and ask no questions.

The day of parting he came to Britain Street, and solemnly renewed his vows in the presence
of Mrs Gunning and Maria.

"And, O my Elizabeth," cries he, "pledge me once more that hand which is all my joy. Swear
that neither raging seas" We also We
have the service of the ancient German saint can be in place, although we strange on the St. Francis
Seraphikus, this very famous, actually from the spirit of God heaven-born man, are required,
and thus have double cause, by the Italians, who have come upon us without our need them to
demand the same submission. May they worship in silence, who they want, but it would have unbearable
every believing Bayern are the heart, if we in the Church a woman ancient sacred altar of a
new-fangled Cajetan saw some splay that concerns us as little as a dervish and the Mufti Pagans
in the Orient. "

Father Wildgruber nodded emphatically, and added, have "My careful inquiries confirms what I told
you that this Cajetan recently blessed by the Holy Father who it is, on the arduous bullying
of the noble family, it for their Among relatives and would like to clean out their seedy
glory to his name. Like Adel, as you know, cheap to the mountains like the gravel in the stream
is to be had. It may be that the good man from Vicenza a blessing in itself has acquired that
folks, when he Theatines donated, were the only people in his same recorded therein a considerable
care related. If they leave it at that and keep quiet, well and good, one might treat them,
and another is when they and their families Patron able to impose ourselves here locally as
a saint and people to this strange, ill-appointed want to attract admiration. Such strangeness
may those whom God to be guardians of his Sheep was purchased, let creep. "

The hearty approval of his friend Father Gumppenberg amused, so he
stopped, a tendril of climbing beans turned to him and the approach
of the pleasant fruit that is was examined for its growth.

"In eight to fourteen days, I think, can we have a first bean dish to see on our board, "he said,
comfortably. "Our sky matures God's gift slowly, it is but so far, it has a solid flavor, which,
in my Judge all the products touted the stranger does. "

Here, too, Father was Wildgruber agree. "I am not of those," he said, »See the fade without a drop
of French wine, the meal or bulbous; our brown beer may include it
with the much-loved grape material well, yes, by the blood not heated,
but cool, and brings about the desired sleep, rather than the senses
tickle, it is of significant and godly reasons, the most precious
rival still preferable.

"

To the border, the pious men went to the recital on, as the the part of the bulbous Spiritual
danger is threatening to work against propriety. I shrink, "said Father Gumppenberg, "Not
shy away from our Lord, the electors to make urgent representation; I have but also the face of
his stern father's not afraid because I am under the protection God
and his saints feel safe.

"

"You were not there back then to do with a woman," gave to remember Father Wildgruber, "a Woman
whom I would absolutely compare the Dalila, though our highly beloved Lord, the elector has nothing
in common with the hero Samson as the enchantment by his wife.

"

"It is my duty to let me hold nothing of what the salvation of our
church necessary, at least by a woman, "said Father Gumppenberg taken
by his blackish, apart dash with many gray hair shot through a full
beard on his broad chest; "It will not remain without verhoffentlich
impression when I the spirit of his most blessed Father's occupations,
to support my ideas.

"

For the young electors, who in his father's revered image of God on earth, was the invocation of the same overwhelming,
and he dared not something easy to enforce, if made him believe that his conviction was contrary.
Of course, fought the sublime shadow Since his marriage the living
eye of the woman he loved, but he dared in important Things have not
always yield to this new, too charming character because he incredible
seemed that someone, and now even a young woman, his formidable producers
in some should be able to be superior.

Accordingly he answered his father on his haunting Gumppenberg Lecture, whether he was unaware
that the people of the introduction of the new saints so much was contrary to, an excellent artist
that although the draft of an altar to him already submitted, the permit he had issued but not yet
and the matter would temporarily let rest until better the excellence of Vicenza Cajetan known in
Bavaria witnessed and will.

A little foot, he went into the latest of which Italian taste in art only recently completed living
room of his wife, when he to his Father Filiberto consolation was present, for although the Princess
of whispers for themselves what they are at religion and the clergy ought to have their homeland,
but he sought to appease always if the elector in his presence was annoyed about it, trusting
that the quarrel afterwards weiterspänne and the required purposes lead. Henriette Adelaide
took the message of her husband, which he put forward in many jokes
against unwilling and said, "I can suffer the least that you strike
your own little insight than that of the Father Gumppenberg, the hulking
thick skull.

All looked like people you so would the city of Munich for ever otherwise be considered a handful
of peasant huts around the barbaric offspring of the Frauenkirche. Every Christian should be about
between Spain Russia and to pray that Bennett, whose bones were in northern forests between
the bones together have read of bears and bison is? "

He has yet, "Ferdinand Maria," said the advance before your Cajetan, that he was a veritable
Saint, is that while, as I hear, only the beatification was found worthy to So surely have to leave
many estimable qualities. "

"That you have made to believe the rascals," said Henriette Adelaide violently. "The Canonization
will take place at the time already, and if Cajetan had only done a good deed that attests ,
so that would apply more than a hundred miracles a Benno, no one has seen with; and from which no
one can prove whether he had ever lived. "

This is where Filiberto put into the middle by intervened with an amiable smile, that it probably
should be no doubt, as Pope Hadrian in the year 1523 the worthy bishop
heathen and have been among the saints, however, he must also confirm
what I found the Princess with her high spirit already, that the canonization
of Cajetan, the beatification will surely follow, so you assume they
have done for could.

He for his part had to say, however, if it is allowed an opinion that the Elector deeply thought-government
wisdom put to the day when he wanted to avoid by How to attract stormy scandal in his faithful
people and the power that the Holy Cajetan is inherent, so large that they act by themselves
and him popular with everyone would make.

It will never be afraid, "said Henriette Adelaide, by the proud mouth a little twisted mockingly
that her husband would act impetuously. It would therefore refrain from Hall of the Vandal
women's church by a purified art to see more beautiful. You could it actually be the same as
it this church, whose gross Nordic design you now even contrary, do not visit anyway, and could
for the Theatiner and St. Cajetan otherwise be provided by them construct a particular church,
what better was thoroughly than a simple, reluctantly tolerated in a strange space altar. She
threw this even surprising plan is not without mischief, but left only a little of it in the
eloquent Eyes and mouth of the grave was full of innocence and smile at the window by She said:
"It is directed to place opposite enough to make a great design to
the factory.

A large dome and a few towers in Roman fashion jewelry rich were more likely to to delight our
eyes as the desert, from which, like the exhausted camels hump now and rise because some steep
roofs. "Ferdinand Maria looked first not from the window, but on the upright figure of his
wife and said between astonishment and admiration wavering: "My dear, you are a new Semiramis,
and I am afraid that my poor Munich, and perhaps your poor husband, you are too small. How can
I host a church, I have already initiated with the altar? "

"For those who want to," she replied, "there are no obstacles;. But not everyone can do"

The confessor, who seemed at the time, the couple left to himself, praised both The royal disposition
of his father's mistress as the country deliberation of the elector, whereupon he asked for
permission to withdraw.

"Would not you rather master of a magnificent city as an old-fashioned village be "asked Henriette
Adelaide her husband when they were alone. "We enjoy the peace, we can spend the money to
our hearts. Let us turn to us for a beautiful abode here, as they suit us, not those monks, no nose look
beyond the length of her rosary may. "

"Oh," said the Elector, uttering a strange sigh, "when I consider how short time we will stay in
this dwelling, it seems to me that we are a little too perform a lot of noise about it, whether
it is designed this way or that. "

The Princess-tailor his fine young face with the utmost surprise and after a Minute with open understanding
of his speech. "If you will," she said, "you should indeed live in log cabins and nothing but
pyramids to permanent care of his body . Build "sat down next to him at these words on the back of a stiff
Damastsessels and kissed him with tender caution to the well-formed
red lips.

"You have a strange way of looking at life, "she said," with which one can not accomplish much.
Who wants to produce children, if they had constantly in mind that he might has to leave tomorrow?
"

From his dark eyes a warm ray fell on her laughing inclined toward him, beautiful face, and
he said, "You're right, because you are strong and healthy, and God and you trust. Therefore I
may be excused if I told you already yielded more than your princes and husband's proper. "Among
the many pranks and jokes they pulled him to the window, order to show him the meager surroundings
and the idea that the moment had brought her, imagine a tempting canvas. Although the heart
of the electors had voted, by to allow the enterprise carried away his wife, he was still
with the final Agreement carefully back.

If he is thoughtful, that they could both different from his people would if he could introduce him
only once an heir, however, said this is not because he knew how ill she started when she missed
it as a duty warned. Also, he sometimes went through his mind that he might not determined by
God is to reproduce, for he had always been compared with its admiring Father as a weak, unworthy
scion of felt, or he thought it at the Princess the right to love was the matter, and that this
disinclination of the soul and her body against it closes, so that she could not receive a child
by him. This was sad imagination He once, a melancholy mood yielding, it can be compared to much,
as she but had laughed and called him a dreamer, he never came back to it, in quiet he had hoped,
they will give him a more loving response from them.

The reluctance of her husband caused Henriette Adelaide not to abandon their invasion; Rather,
she wrote to her mother, the Duchess of Savoy, they let their hems without a experienced builder
send the recent masterpieces of church architecture in particular studying in Rome through
and through and I was willing and able, his mind on an extraordinary to address this type of
invention. No sooner had arrived the same, he had to the place that they had chosen to visit and
present the drawings and plans, with their visit She spent many hours in their rooms, which all
the people some of the vigilance focused on public life, was not hidden. It was not long, it
turned , Father Gumppenberg again with a mournful request, whether
it was on the that the Blessed Cajetan now not only an altar, but
a whole church to be built should, and that the castle over priced,
just as if a strange agreement existed between the electors and the
foreign country newcomer?

What reason for the elector have to agree with the superior protection of the Holy Land Bayer, which
had been far out so well Unhappy to be or they preferred a hollow names from beyond the mountains?

In
seeking the embarrassment came over him remember to not let waved Ferdinand Maria soothing with
her hand and said, emphatically impartiality, as is no reason to distrust and sensitivity! The thing is
this: He had vowed to St. Cajetan, if will given him an heir by his intercession, he wanted
him close to his residence a Church set up, so beautiful he could do anything, and so that when
it is so far his words could solve, he can have in the meantime visit the site and make an estimate,
so that the construction could be undertaken without delay when the heritage was there.

If the elector himself laughed at the impressive response that occurred to him in time of need
was, and the strict father and apparently stunned silence made, but he recovered quickly and
was now a doubled disapproval and punitive zeal without Secret note. It was indeed, he said, certainly
the electors entered God, that he by a religious, christian catholic vows wanted to implore the
blessing of offspring, and how he would answer for it but, by the
exercise of his praiseworthy ancestors eigenmütig depart?

His mother, of blessed memory, the devout Princess Maria Anna had, at the venerable Age of her
husband to the fertility of their marriage should be worried, they got their Not to shelter foreign
sea wonders taken, but is in humility and manners to Alt-Oetting pilgrimage and have the wooden
Maria in the old chapel many exquisite treasures donated what they had for the consolation of
the whole country Bayer became pregnant and it myself, Ferdinand Maria, was born. If his wife,
the example of his illustrious mother wanted to follow, so would the saints and intercessors proven
her certainly no less perform miracles than to those afflicted and
the subjects would be rid of sorrow, again sleep peacefully in their
beds can.

Then, when the grace is not expected einträfe, would like the Princess least try it with their
local cartridges, it would be the first to unite his prayers for the prosperity of the work
with which the beloved rule.

The appointment of his rest in God parents moved the mind of the electors so that he for the
suggestion of Father Gumppenberg was fully recovered and only when he went away was, in a low fear
the opposition of his wife pulled into account. Of course, they pulled the fine black brows together
angrily, but more because the company not of it or her confessor was out, as they would have
ignored their duty to the country an elector to give and do everything possible to achieve the high
goal. Also it would have a beautiful pilgrimage to Loreto such as the right remedy is fully
lit; but that a poor peasant place like Alt-Oetting for a person of their kind, the Reasonable
was, they did not consider probable and rejected this emphatically, but without the thing itself
be dismissed out of hand. Finally, they agreed, to Andechs to make a pilgrimage, which, though
but by far wilder and more desolate was located as Alt-Oetting, for they had the advantage
that it is not forced upon her by the Capuchins, but voluntarily was chosen by her. They also
opposed all other arrangements, the Father Gumppenberg of properly Organisation of the trip
was necessary.

He said that the last arduous ascent to the holy mountain, which should take about one hour,
the Beterin alone, running without their women, or other companion, but that does not concern could
arise about their well-being in this wilderness, he wanted her as a guide and protector give to
a brother of his order, for a spiritual interests you at all, it was not banned, not just recommended.

Indignantly said Henrietta Maria, relocating in the barren mountain land promise anyway no Kurzweil,
a companion of the Order of her now was once repugnant, will she completely made unbearable, she
would take her confessor, Father Filiberto, to which it is accustomed and to which they have
confidence. a counter that used the Elector he country and people do not know and not even
the German language is powerful as it is concerned nevertheless his brother, Father Gumppenberg
have read to them, watch at least once, It would certainly be a modest, sensible man be, who
would not fall her annoying.

The Princess is not much surprised when her soon presented a handsome youth with a ring of bluish-black
hair around the wide, childlike face, with eyes like dark brown to conceal a strong color flame
appeared, with a straight nose and beautiful, large mouth, which rarely smiled, but then was suddenly
see a full row of beads yellowish-white teeth. To their questions, he indicated that he was from
the southern Tyrol and the youngest son of noble Parents was that
it had intended for the monastic life.

His conduct was, if not courtly, yet fully secure dignity, to be based on good blood and inviolable
innocence appeared. He was in looks and words in all respect so reserved, that Henriette Adelaide
should hardly knew how to encourage him, for she felt his child stringent Neither sense nor her
feminine charm her royal highness was accessible, and feared as much to confuse its purity, as
she wished, in his mind any echo to excite.
 "For my mother's job coach is at hand to
take my three beauties; and distress not yourself, my dearest Madam, for I engage to remain
with your little family will return in the coach when it deposits you here. And now, children,
peep and whisper no longer, but come see your lovely mama and sisters before they go to conquer
the world."

'Twas the kindest heart! She clapped her hands, and in rushed the three children like Bedlam
let loose, careering round and about the three, shouting, laughing, and begging to be took
also. Raisins and oranges from George Anne's reticule alone restored them to their beds in peace.

"'The Golden Vanity' has sent forth two incomparable beauties," says she at the door as they
stepped into the coach. "May it bring them the luck of its heroine and more."

       *       *       *       *       *

St. Patrick's Hall was all of a blaze with wax candles and flambeaux, and shining mirrors set
in with gilt Cupids, and twinkling of fairy lights in the great glass lustres and their glittering
chains of drops and pendants. 'm Not looking! Do it not once but my Chickens according to
the order, so I could have wished to be slaughtered, since he had to the springs can be and how
shabby of a fight comes along, but I refrained, as he because of its thinness no good bite
promises. "

The face of the city's main darkened, and he ruled the mayor, "laying up to me not risk denial!
The bastard lays eggs and is one of the rightful Stake. You know that I am adamant in Christianity
and my best friends not spare, when I catch myself in frivolity and blasphemy. The people must in
respect will be and see an example of the government agenda, so I wear on you, but to ensure
that the bad reputation of you and washed off in the future nothing more unseemly be heard
by your house and yard, as I previously not my foot back to your threshold will share. "

About this majestic appearance of his friend's great terror, cried the mayor: "Allow at least
that I'll call Mrs. Armida," and violently pulled on a bell part, which Bells had been raised,
however, barely, as the already Requested entered the room. She was a wonderful woman who
always walked around in a burgundy-colored silk dress and a high-towering, sprawling hair wore
on his head, headed by a ring of white and light blue feathers nodded down. Due to an amiable
temperament erglomm it was slightly mollified to great violence, but also unexpectedly, loved the
sociability and scared away with a lot of noise, the boredom and bad temper, so they probably suffered
and the town's main man was indispensable.

"It is you, Kloterjahn," she cried when she saw the exalted man, and wanted a appropriate greeting
to continue: but the mayor cut off her talk by he exclaimed, miserable and irritated tone:
"Why does it not me, if such errors occur in the chicken coop? You are the wife and you should know who
is with us the eggs submit! Or has it not necessary to sit down by so flagrant abuses in knowledge?
"

"Do not get excited," said Mrs. Armida strict, for they disapproved of it, when other violent
were, "if you know not what you say, there are other even less understood," This. Reply brought
the mayor to completion so that he cried angrily: "Do not you understand that it is for the chickens
to lay eggs, like that of women give birth to children, "and hoped to be angry with these suits
his wife, who had given him no children. This but restrained himself and invited only by a glittering
view of the city governor, her innocent to bear witness to suffering. "I am a simple soldier, but a
good Christian," she said of Kloterjahn, their dark eyes evasive, "before you did not wash this
blot off of you I can no longer enter your threshold. What I have said, I can not take back,
so it must remain, "He was standing on an iron resolve and grabbed the doorknob. »Kloterjahn," cried
Mrs. Armida and roared behind the escape, willing him being there with her arms, but could
not catch him, which is precisely the garden gate behind him and tossed with firm steps to
lamentation eluded her.

Meanwhile, it regretted Tile of Norway already that he had failed against his wife: He was not malicious,
but gentle and friendly, but he had weak nerves could Noise, controversy and excitement are intolerant
and was sometimes heated, if it in his head confusion began to go. He had a mediocre mind that he has always
been convenience set was rarely used, and now, since he was maturing, usually sleepy was,
as a good room with sofa and chairs covered was vermuffen. The Council Business was more or
less by himself, and at home, he cares only a little to the garden and the chicken, but mainly
to the kitchen where he ate and drank to the pots To check and with the blonde, rosy and round
cook, who was called Molli, loving deal. After the town's main man and his wife had left the room,
he rang all Servants together and asked her for the cock. It was out of them bring nothing as
they had already heard from the Munkelei, by the way, they paid, the twisted Eyes and scratched
behind the ears, which upset the mayor so that he in great indignation sent away again, threw
himself into a chair and fell asleep.

Mrs. Armida worked quite differently: they had the most intimate friends of her husband to a
Chat on domestic fired tables ask, namely, the councilors and Lüddeke Druwel of Druwelstein
and legal scholars from Engelbert Würmling, the most distinguished only by the Families was obtained
as counsel. It was found that even these gentlemen the ugly gossip had already come to my attention
that for various reasons against the mayor speak up, had the little Lüddeke because it is a delicate
matter and perhaps Tile stint was not acceptable. Druwel because it seemed to him that would
be something not quite true, if you do not like conversations, Würmling however, had visited
the Italian universities and very enlightened, was because it had not occurred to him important.
"I do not think that a Cock can lay eggs, "he said," but he does it, he likes it because of
me, I have no prejudice. It is exceptional, well. It is unnatural, well. It hurts me? no. We
leave it but old women, to argue about heaven and hell, virtue and vice. " "Meanwhile, however,"
turned Druwel a shyly, "because the Lord City captain his displeasure about has spoken, the matter
would still be considered from another point of view be. Herr Engelbert closed his eyes as if he
wanted to guard against the sight of stupid and to include people in poor, and said in a tone
of exhaustion: "The opinion City Captain of the Lord is good to fill the people's mouth, before
his stupidity and However, some unusual superstitions must be hidden. "

Druwel was a warrior, and had distinguished himself in all feats of
arms of the city, and if He came along with a stiff beard, sparkling
eyes and sun-burnt skin, thick and stiff-legged as an upright cannon
barrel, everyone thought that it could not Quakenbrück missing, as
long as It had its Druwel.

Only in moral matters he was not fired up, because he probably tilt for this, but did not distinguish
himself and fellow as well as he could, to some considerable Man, especially the town of Captain Kloterjahn
taught. He was always afraid that he unexpectedly could miss against religion or morality, something
that he already saw and heard what it could bring in confession into trouble. The small Lüddeke
however, a gay male was, that Christianity is based on himself if he only Unmodified had passed, and was
already in the evening at bedtime on the news that could bring the following day. "Stern,"
he said, tugging impatiently at the beard, "Here we are yet to come once, but lead us into the
garden and show us the devil roast, and let him may take a specimen of his art. "Although Druwel
delayed under the pretext that it dawn and you could still see nothing, opened Tile Norway the door to move
forward the Men came in. Mrs. Armida thrown up by it and cried angry, the gardener had terminated
because it was not in such a house would remain, and Molli, the cook, had the truffle burn vegetables
in the pan, so as not to damage their souls to take. Had but the beast, the cock who was to
blame for all that time turned over the neck, as they had wanted! Now you'll have to sit this
evening in front of empty dishes, or they could cook would need, although they do not tolerate
the heat of the oven. The whole company then went into the kitchen where Molli told in hand-wringing
as five eggs already I have to throw away, because the yolk was not in the same yellow, crimson,
but and I have to fill the egg almost as horrified about it to the heart and now I believe the
story, which it did not yet want to do, as none of Mix the eggs, the more bewitched and therefore will
also not end the Trüffelomelette could bring.

"Molli," the mayor said softly, as he put his arm around her shoulder, "what the eggs part, I'll
zerklopfen them, and if it gets me, I hope with your love and Fidelity that you stand by me and
also the Trüffelomelette that you as tasty as any Another girl to bake understand how all
the other dishes full least in the usual way. " Then he said with considerable skill an egg,
even though his hands trembled, partly due to his weak nerves, partly because Druwel him by
pulling on the coat to think about the business tried.

When she saw Mr handle their bread so Molli softened, began to cry loudly and declared that the
sight of his Eierzerklopfens can endure longer, as well the whipped eggs by him quite badly
and as others were, they took him Cup and sent away to be under a quick prayer to equipping
itself in the hand to take.

In this time, Mrs. Armida a big ax seen lying on a kitchen table, armed with them and rushed into
the garden, which gave the signal for the general move, as the men no doubt she would have to
tap the body, and the feeling that they would have a rapid Indeed prevent. The small Lüddeke
ran as fast as he could, and could be as much Druwel , Carried away that he took hold of the
tail of her red silk dress, to stop them, while the mayor and Würmling followed more slowly.
Just had the Mayor of the door of the chicken barn, which was surrounded
by a wooden fence detected, and since they believed that her dress
would be hooked onto a bar, she tried to break away angry, and they
turned around and saw the Druwel who implored them not to enter the
stable, which may a district of the devil.

"Who has a good conscience, afraid of the devil," said Mrs. Armida pointed, pulled a sharp movement
from the hands of her train Druwel and entered on spraying step, the chickens flew the frightened
apart. The rooster it was possible to avoid the sacrifice of a tail feather and its handle, on a
barn fluttering up, which formed the background of the barn to discover an open hatch in of
settling.

Tile, Lüddeke Würmling and who were now closer to trying to explain to the woman, one should
not kill the animal, as it would be interpreted as having a treacherous Testimony from the world
made, but she was teaching not easily accessible when you Mind was in turmoil and urged the men with
fury, down to shoot the beast if indeed they should not hold for cowards. Mr. Lüddeke blinked
his little Mrs. Armida eyes soon, soon the tap on, sitting in the square hatch, with the wings
suggested that the beak tearing and crowed far greater in the incident as a twilight course
looked. "He has a shrill voice and despicable character," he said, "and it would not be pity for
him, but when advised by Mr. Würmling us that we are not suspicious haste , Do we have to rein
in our well-justified resentment and our audacity for the time being.

"

"Well," cried Mrs. Armida, which persuasion and that the reasons for the men, such as water
drops proceed to the left, "if the men have no heart in the chest, so I will include in poultry
give his reward, "roused a few large boulders, in the midst of the stall a feed trough formed, and
they threw a big detour to the hatch. The men hastened to the area the low whirring blocks
come to what they were not hindered by the laughter of little, in which they were advised by the violence
of the lady, but turned back the good Tile, to make his wife pointed out that they make themselves
more easily than the tap would. Since she had just occurred to themselves, they left the battlefield
on which the ax and the stones were wildly.

»Druwel," she said sternly, adding she stopped before the Lord, "In some corset puts a hero and
a coward in some armor." The first, "said Druwel the humble, "no one will deny that you know, for
me, so my physical system designed such that before I secret things as ghosts, furies, Miasma, disease,
vision, earthquakes and storms, an invincible, inner restraint and horror feel, while a whole
army my heart is not a single vortex beat faster. can be "In your list you forgot the women,"
remarked Mrs. Armida, "and yet you have your cause, to fight them also to his eyes." From the point
of view overcome a beautiful and noble lady to be his need to be ashamed of no man, " Druwel
replied and offered the now reconciled Mayor arm to them in the dining room to lead.

The characteristic Molli did not like the other servants watched the show in the garden, but
was in their omelets, pastries and bakeries remained so vain flavor and opulence, the Company
received on the board. Mrs. Armida, which was still breathing heavily, opened the Table, by
exclaiming: "Have I not been so bothered, I am now its sure that the bad guy lays eggs, and smart,
he must begin to him that we .'ve Never hit it, "said Würmling From:" madam have withdrawn from
the poor to favor and now consider him capable of any wrongdoing: this is the kind of women ""
Oh sure, "replied. it quickly, "the nature of women is to blindfold not to let himself, not through
a scraped Chin or by looking through a long beard and colorful feathers, but the bad faxes and
clean it. "When she noticed that Lord Lüddeke the serving girl for by wink and all kinds of caution
sign to warn sought, she looked defiantly around and said, "Why should
I be silent in this instance, as if I had laid the eggs?

We will soon figure it out and it stuck a stick, so that anyone with our Justice must be satisfied.
Yes, "said the mayor, so it should be so, but times would no longer be so, but it prevails mischief
and insubordination among the people, there is cheeky People with impunity and inflate the higher
people witness something on mending. The City captain had abandoned him seriously to punish the
talk lies, as put his cock Eggs, as he should do but if his own wife was calling out to the
streets that it was true?

The mention of the city's main wife Armida agreed thoughtfully and cloudy, so that it consists of Gloom
and growing concern the tangle of entertainment had been unleashed. However, were Mr. and Lüddeke
of Würmling always funny, and the latter that is started when He had drunk a bottle of good
wine to be sociable and play wit and humor to be as if the noble lighter ignited a timber, which previously
lain dumb and stupid had, but now crackled and warmed, lighted and spread fragrance. They also
tried the Druwel in the revelry of dragging, but who, after his dinner at a little had encouraged,
was again falling into concerns that harassed him so much that he sometimes dry the sweat from his
brow had.

"You know, Tile," he said, "that I believe in all the dangers to you and a valiant war colonel
I have always been, it is well known to you that I am sensitive in Christianity, and if I have
to swear an oath, prefer not auftäte mouth again, let alone I anlöge
it.

How should I pull myself from it for now, because when I tap the interviewed will? If I were
to put on the rack and gekneipt with red-hot tongs, I could escape me by God upon you and the
egg-laying nothing but if they tell me three-finger swear to heaven, so I can see the tongue
like a stroke and stirred is no more about bad faith. "

All were affected, only Mr. Engelbert smiled and said, by its slender pale index finger to move
across the table at the Druwels chest: "Have you for the eggs Gockel place look like? "The Druwel
surprised his eyes rolled back and forth and finally said, a sigh of relief With great relief, "If
I remember right, I have seen nothing" Well.

So you can say what you will, without entangling your conscience, "said the lawyer, "And the truth
will hurt us any more than you how to lie." Now the mayor brought still a concern before, namely,
that it would have been any better but to dismiss the animal, because if it were in the study deals
with painful twisting and turning, it could be done by an unfortunate coincidence, but still
lay eggs, making them ugly then no fault would be exposed: but the Druwel waved his arms about
silence and said: "Do not talk to me more of the accursed beasts. Let me about the whole thing
in the dark that I know so little of it as the Immaculate Conception of Mary! Your learned subtlety,
Mr. Engelbert like, you unfold before the Tribunal, a simple military
tribunes becomes only the mind confused.

Gives only fills me your plate, because before me has every sip and bite into bile. "

Thus, the Druwel the feast began again after the rest had already been fed, and there was a loud
Pokulieren showed up late at night, the men in advance celebrated their victory, and persuaded,
as they adopt the old state, the guilds Attach a lesson and wanted to carry out the reformed sect, preferably
through Fire and water, but by Mildherzigkeit from exile and other reasons, after the Ringleader
in the market would ausgestäupt bravely.

So the men chatted with wine, however, far from horrible weather clouds therefore moved against
them came. The pastor was a splinter fearless and inquisitive man, and he now sued, have been
slandered the glory of the mayor's gross, as if he a wizard and hero, be so much that he cherished
an egg-laying rooster in the yard, was he no shame or cowardice should be noted, on the contrary, he
was even more boldly on as usual, and led an entire clan with his peers is that behaved as did they
come from the throne to Prince Beelzebub and smoke the world deceived by the sulfur gas station.
He was acceptable to the outside, curly-haired and lean, with such
fiery eyes, that it hissed, if he threw them around, to fully loose
words that came flowing like a well-aimed water upon, which one works
sick limbs.

He had also brought a very learned counsel but he could not reach the issue, and therefore
justifiably would have at home, if he had not hidden in his broad face, a poison-green moldy
smile spouted the sometimes lewd and enemies to their great harm and for pleasure drool all
over the other party. It included a number of guild leaders and some of the merchants come from
old letters which proved their right, such a negotiation To be present during the senators
would rather have stayed to themselves.

The judge who presided, called Tiberius Tönepöhl, holding it in the hearts with the Reformed
Church and was delighted when the Catholic was something aufgemutzt, but He seemed to have
a pact and blood brothers signed with justice, that His own instinct was cooped up so well
that he is not even the snout through the bars ventured to put; instead was the divine Themis
prophesied housed with him, and out of his mouth, except for a few hours of leisure, where the
container was opened, and once the heart is a little romp and was allowed a breather. were the
associate judge also a Catholic and a Protestant minister, as the matter just as much spiritual
as secular in nature. Tiberius Tönepöhl offered while the encroachments of the Church of the forehead,
but let her get on the other hand, hers and said, if there was an opportunity that he, as a layman
from the religious mysteries still wanted to know knew nothing, and each denomination its Heretic
to be burned as much as it deserves, but not an iota more.

Tönepöhl opened the hearing saying that he said he will not do it without regret and shame,
that a highly respected man, as the mayor and almost the highest person in the community, public of
such abominations I can be accused, as it is to have a cock lay the
eggs.

That would be indecent things one could bring to the stake, when the spiritual jurisdiction
law judge, the way he would not prejudge. Whatever one might otherwise have for principles,
to admit anyone who would engage with the devil is the vice of vices, like the devil the father
of all sin, and worship of the interpret God arranged natural physical processes on an outgrowth or
monstrosity of conscience, which is doubly odious in a government person subordinates should
light up ahead such as spotless virtue. But he hoped it would to the Lord Mayor succeed, to
cleanse it from the painful suspicion, and if the pastor splinter some already feel that he had gone
too far in his claims, he might the same immediately take back what was better than afterwards
as a defamation to stand.


"Why, Madam, friendship is so rare a virtue that 'tis worth proclaiming at the Exchange. I
will give myself the pleasure to wait on you another evening."

His hat was beneath his arm; he picked up his clouded cane.

"I thank your Grace." Mrs Gunning's voice was stately. It changed as she turned to Elizabeth.
"And now, my flower, my dove, repose yourself on the couch, and Mrs Abigail will bring you
the lavender drops, and let me find my treasure well and smiling on my return."

"What? Does not Miss Elizabeth accompany her mama?" The tone was alert.

"By no means, your Grace. She has ailed all day with her head, and is not fit for a sick chamber.
Farewell, child. I wait your Grace."

He took Mrs Gunning's hand to conduct her to the coach; 'twas as pretty a comedy as ever George
Anne Bellamy played. He laughed inwardly leading her to the door, and on the stairs discoursed
charmingly on the last masquerade at Vauxhall. Without the hall door he paused.

"Is Miss Elizabeth Gunning too ailing, Madam, to receive a friend for a few moments? Permit
me to assist you."

And before the lady could reply, he bundled the two into the coach, and was halfway up the
steps ere Mrs Gunning could cry: "I know not, your Grace. A moment perhaps--"

He bowed from the door.

"Be easy, Madam. I will myself administer the lavender drops if needful."

It was impossible for the Duke to hasten himself, for this he had never done within the memory
of man; but 'twas scarce a minute since he had left the room when he reentered, half fearing
to find his pretty bird flown. Not so, however. She leaned against the shutter, her eyes fixed
on the evening sky. It seemed she had forgot his Grace, for her expression was sorrowful and
quiet, unlike the female trifling he expected, and he heard a faint sigh. She turned, startled.

"Forgive me, my Lord Duke. I think I can't stay. My head--"

She would have glided to the door. 'Twas provocative, however meant, and he put himself in
her way. She tried the other side of the table. He blocked that also, and was before her again.
Finally she ceased the attempt and stood with eyes cast down.

"Child, don't hasten. Give me a few minutes. I see you alone for the first time and never so
lovely as now. Is it your long hair, or what is it? Sure the angels have locks like this."

He lifted a heavy tress as if marvelling. She snatched it from him like an aggrieved queen;
then, seeming to recollect herself, stood silent again. 'Twas but a schoolgirl, with trembling
lips and veiling hair. He took her hand like a man accustomed to be obeyed, as indeed he was.

"Child, your mama hath left you in my care, and you can't desire I should relinquish the pleasure.
Such an opportunity no gentleman could resist. Be seated, Madam, and let us discourse."

'Twas all on one side, for she had not opened her lips. But she obeyed him, and sat in the
chair he handed her to, as passive as a marble lady. He seemed at a loss to continue, and stood
looking at her where she drooped, then took a chair beside her.

"You are pleased to be less cordial than I have known you, Madam. Is it whim or anger? I like
a woman's pretty coquetries as well as any man, but this silence--"

It still continued. She was snow and marble. Not a word. Only the dark lashes like fans on
her cheek. Not a gleam rewarded him.

"A sullen beauty!" says his Grace languidly, "but yet a beauty beyond all others. So here we
sit!" He drew out his jewelled timepiece.

"I give you a minute, Madam--nay, two. And if by then you have not spoke, I will try if the
warmth of a kiss on those sweet lips won't thaw the ice. I swear it!"

He laid the sparkling toy at her elbow on the table, and stared in her face. 'T is certain
his Grace had dined. He was not wont to treat any woman thus unless where it was asked for.
A minute went by--the tick was audible, but she moved not. And now a slow hot tear scorched
its way down her cheek. If this followed mama's instruction, it bettered it. The tune was scarce
out when he springs up and cries with triumph:--

"I was not mistook. Your silence asks a kiss, child, and James Hamilton was never the man to
refuse a woman's challenge. Give me your lips, and more."

His swashbuckling Border ancestors were stirring in his veins, and for a moment his face coarsened
and his eyes were gross. He caught her by the two arms and bent his mouth upon hers.

In a flash the fair statue was living and dangerous. He was a strong man, she a wisp of a girl;
but she flung him off and stood glaring at him.

"How dare you?" she panted, and could no more. The eyes were unveiled at last and rained fire
on him. Never had any person seen her look thus; she faced him gallantly. He applauded as if
it had been the Woffington or any other fair game.

"'Tis prettily done--but I see your drift, Madam. If a young lady is left by her friends and
her own desire to sit alone with one of the best-known men in town, she takes the consequences.
Yet I would not have missed Lucretia--she lacked only the dagger in her hand. But the comedy
may end. Give me your lips, child, and coquet no more."

"Sir--if you are a gentleman--"

"Madam, I am a lover."

"Oh,'tis too much--too much!" she cries. "I have undertook what was beyond me, and I can't--I
can't carry it through. I would if I could--I cannot!"

The strange words, the despair in her face was no stage-play. The Duke knew sincerity when
it cried aloud. Still grasping her hands, he stood at arm's length, staring in her face.

"You cannot, Madam? What mean you? Are you in earnest?"

Not withdrawing her hands, fast held and quivering, she kept silence. He could feel the pulses
flutter in her wrists, and the fumes of wine cleared slowly out of his brain and carried the
brutality with them. Such a move here behind him, he was used and would be complete
without the wearing felt nor thought the constable because he homage to tear down the tail
behind. Accordingly, the valve was in an instant by many women and children surrounded him and
patted him looking to teach all kinds of food, of which He finally took a little anxious and
swallowed. The observed quantity welcomed this and other characters returning life with a
glad cry, because he closed now quite a few times and she opened her eyes again, as if to try
and see if the machine still would. When he came even with the bill, although weak, among the
grains, the were spread before him, with the wobbly legs auszukratzen backwards, trying and
gave a hoarse croak of himself, came the chickens to which had no one notices, first timidly,
then ran outside and began hasty brought to the monster about to peck to eat at. Here on the rose-lasting
joy, the light wing beats with the spread lime scent moved so that a happy hunting balm and
sound is at the head of the people up and down and swayed as a canopy of satisfaction that
the intoxicated man was floating.

The mayor began to weep with emotion, and the Druwel were moist eyes, when he and his friend
and wife Armida vigorously shook his hand.

"Well," the bishop said, pointing to the chickens, "the little people
got together amicably, as it might not be the case when the hell nestled
in between.

"

Tönepöhl let the bishop out of respect for the sentence to finish, but dropped quickly, so he
did not come before, and sent with a smile to a serious issue. "If To say that is the voice of
the people the voice of God, we may well with this saying just as much right to apply to the
animals even more than the people from the depths of infallible Basic emotions out comment.
Here we have both the people and the cattle heard. It has taken place before our eyes an ordeal,
bone-chilling, and yet lovely in its ignorance. Today, when we departed from the strict course
of justice are, it is fair to happen, and thoughtful intent, since sometimes be freedom wisdom can.
Should convince any but, as the action is unjustified, that in our community the people were excluded
from the government, where it is profitable, we will give its ruling
Room and heard.

"

Here Tönepöhl was an incident which occurred noisily interrupted. It sounded clear from the middle
of a loud screeching chickens or cawing, which on the An outcry followed the Mayor's office,
one of the pastors have chickens Kikeriki called. She called the chicken, which they attributed
to the Hahnenkraht, with suggestive finger and said, red with indignation, so then come and
unnatural impropriety among chickens those mentioned before, who had accused her cock diabolical
machinations. With rapid steps approached the pastor and said sarcastically: "If anywhere
Kikeriki is called, it closes this mean that a rooster is present, and because in fact the cock of
the Lord Mayor is available here, so any reasonable view of his that he did. "Of course, indeed,
"cried Mrs. Armida," it is thought, even if eggs are placed somewhere that chickens have done.
However, I have seen with my own eyes that the doodle-doo from the thin neck chicken that came
and put it also left to the audience, if our poor shivering Santander Hahn would be able, in
such a loud, penetrating way to crow, is done as before. " "I have seen nothing, but that's just
been crowed loudly and clearly confirm I said to be correct, "Tönepöhl. This can "anyone" turned
a sardonic pineal gland. "I say, that has been crowed from a faucet, "repeated Tönepöhl applied,
yet measured; "And that by a valve in the shape of a real cock or a real chicken."

Now, reported by other men, women and children to testify that the by the Mrs. Mayor called
the chicken prolapsed Hahnenkraht have really committed. On the command Tönepöhls was taken and
set the chicken on the table, where it desperately herumstolperte to escape, as if they were
ashamed of his ugly appearance. The neck the animal was in fact, exposed perhaps by the work
of vermin, not to mention feathers, and so it seemed a cruel cook plucked alive, but before completion
have sprung to the business. "The animal is an abomination," cried Druwel of Druwelstein, with
pithy voice is breathless and stare the crowd breaking through. "One cause It once again give
a tone of himself, "the bishop said cheerfully," so that everyone from the character can convince
of it. "This proposal was immediately as so reasonable found that the judges took their quills
and stabbed the chicken and harassed, as best they could, what the consequence was that the terrified
bird fluttered hither and thither and at last broke out in a discordant screech, followed by a
not weaker, but thunderously amplified echo of the meeting followed. As the triumph had ceased,
Tönepöhl said: "The fact that the crow can chicken, I think hereby proved," in what sense the
remaining judges voice their charges, then was a sign from the Chairman packed all poultry in
baskets and taken away.

The minister, who until now grudgingly and here and there throwing the head back, as he'll call
God to witness such stupidity, had been listening, now appeared before hastily and said, "And
what are the consequences if it were proved that I do not recognize? There are pigeons laugh,
peacocks, the trumpet, parrots, talk to a human, why should not a chicken ? Crow Depends such
but depend only on the random formation of the throat! "

"The crows," said Tönepöhl with the strong calm that the priest his indecent Heat should bring
shame to consciousness, "the crow is a badge of manliness and can not be replicated successfully
in a natural way from chicken. We intend several years, a woman who was accompanied in men's
clothes and caught in their sex was ausgestäupt public and deported, as the woman in the costume
of the man is that of the higher-born people, should not presume. How should we assess it as
if a Weibswesen even the man innate characteristics, distinguishing it were, the Nature dress,
imitate or acquire will? Where should the case of such mixing, the necessary discipline and
domination, which must remain in the home rule as in the hen house? " How, then, the priest
in the bright anger slipped out the words was: "How could I so be silly to want to fight against
Popish superstition, "was an unwilling Murren in the crowd, and they would probably resent it
is saturated, if not the Bishop soothing Characters given and Tönepöhl asked, would have to arrest
the priest for his own good and to bring in a good custody to him of the estimable and although
for obvious Causes, but overly excited people not suffering for.

The rooster was the hurried eating after a long abstinence struck so bad that Molli for good, found
him to slaughter and be lean and tough meat sent to a prurient Pie mess out, which, in the victory
and Versöhnungsmahl, the participation of the city's main the mayor took place, was consumed.

The singer

went through the wide corridors echoed the prison on a
warm San Callisto Spring mornings, the Cardinal Mazzamori and the
master of the papal chapel, Don Orazio, of his family tree to the
famous Roman poet attributed, both favorites of the Pope Innocent
the Tenth.

They were about to visit a young man who accused of murder and in danger of losing life, the
Cardinal by his lover, been the beautiful Donna Olimpia recommended was. This lady, by marrying
a Ottobuoni was lifted out of petty-bourgeois professional, had the relationship with their
continued living in the shadow Family lost and took care of him, especially when they are
in their new circumstances affected and felt dissatisfied. So when one of her aunts had come to
her and she had pleaded to save the endangered life of the only Son, for which she means her Friend,
the Cardinal Mazzamori, was well able, she was not only compassion, but awestruck for the woman was,
the pierced, the pain of death of the mother, a sacred destiny seemed to meet as they never
even born yet the marital Loyalty had saved and now even losing friends in their spiritual desire
began. Their fall had given command of the Cardinal can not escape, although he can, to provide
help, in this case was excluded.

Because it was the young Lance Lotto - that was the cousin Olympia - who died by his Father, a
merchant, the creditors of a kinsman of the pope and had behalf his mother after several reminders
had not borne fruit, even in the house of Debtor issued to him to effect payment. Since the Lord is bluntly
refused his Obligation, or shall deny even was a lively exchange
of words in the Course of the nephew summoned some of his people and
ordered them the insolent oppressors to take and throw him through
the window into the street.

Sun appealed to the utmost, Lance had lottery, which he sought to ward off the men who attacked
him on raw, one wounded on the same death. So much the cause of the noble Lord had also the incident
to hide, he made it yet pending, to get rid of this annoying creditor and fortunately for him
met several circumstances by which the judges of the accused were taken.

Among the papers Lotteries Lance found himself out of all sorts of philosophical writings banned
a satirical poem on the pope, and so kind and sensitive fully Innocent the Tenth in some respects
even was, so it would have even his most jaded confidant to sudden Disgrace must be provided,
if they dared to defend a witticism directed against him had. Primarily his weakness, to keep
for a poet, had to spared by anyone be, and nothing would have prevented him from seeing in
that a murderer and a heretic, parody with plenty of spirit and his comic turns Sapphic odes had,
for this was the form in which he loved to dress the outpourings
of his heart, preferably Christians.

The poem was "The Roman siren" and was titled something like "Sail not on the Roman Coast over,
Odysseus, or are you still there, so do not miss, your ears with wax glue, so you do not hearest
the voice of the Pope. Did you hear him, you would Such a cloudy take that thou wert not able to steer
your ship, and would fail miserably. "It would have been foolhardy to take on a man who the Imprudence
had had such a boldness not only write and find themselves to be, but admit even its authorship.

Under these circumstances, Cardinal Mazzamori step with troubled face next to his friends Orazio
ago, tell him their worries and concerns. "I can participate for the Olympia Aunt can not otherwise
than lovely, "he said," although it upsets me. Your compassion for their relatives, their hearts
making them inaccessible to my claim that I their gloomy Expression compared with hardly dare
to make claims. How easy is the virtue to the enemy of happiness, and how hard it is therefore to
become the friends of virtue.

I can not imagine a happy Conclusion of this matter to present, I am not at all interfere in
the process can and has made too many follies of the defendant to light and there but not
spill an Olimpia tied their love for me has to save him. "

Orazio admitted that it was a delicate matter, and added that he could not rejoice enough to him
that his investment protected from the pernicious influence of women. "In my opinion," he said, "outweigh
the pleasures that can prepare us sex, the trouble and Disappointments on that flow from his
intercourse. "

The Cardinal sighed instead of the reply, already had become of their previous caretaker remains
one of the many doors to stop, which led to the passage, and gave them a sign, that they were at the goal.

directed
at their entrance to the prisoner out of his bunk, the beds looked puzzled and ill-tempered,
then jumped up and said with a polite greeting, that he had slept
soundly and not equal to its situation had to remember.

"The merciful nature has me," he said laughing, the gift "given ample sleep, which I drive away
the time , since I will be given an opportunity, they become friends to me through work or entertainment.
"

to sleep "The ability points to a free conscience," said the cardinal, after which The young
man replied: "I'm sure, I would like to see the sack of flour that is different from dishonorable
villains could connect with feet, without defending himself. If my tongue so flawlessly, as
my hands are without flaws, but which is such that it expresses all
that through my brain twitches, as if she were a bell, to the resistance
of the flail of thought anschlüge.

As much as is according to what excited people chagrin, all speak of what they think I should
have too many comrades, but that they were all locked up or They could cut off all their heads.
"

"You just do not talk like a repentant sinner," Don Orazio said with pleasure to the handsome man,
whose gaiety by his miserable situation is not broken into seemed to be.

"What do you want, sir," he reply trusting.

"I did not commit a murder, is to I have to be crushed because I thought according to my understanding
of the miracle of existence, or perhaps even because I made a slight joke about His holiness?
I do probably even a cheeky joke about the highest rank in heaven,
but the venerable Heads than the Pope, without me so I pull of sin,
for what for demolition It does its glory, when an earth worm them
almost invisible, a little pluck it?

I am only a poor devil, which is easy to deprive of life and honor, and but am not angry with
the judges, the me daily as a blood-thirsty bully and rebels . Maltreat "

The Cardinal, who had been seen laying his white nails, said that by he assumed a serious expression:
"The justice of the Holy Father a guarantee that you no Suffering happens when you're as innocent
as you pretend. Had you not by your Wantonly forfeited the benefit of grace, I would advise
you, you with your concerns entirely at the feet of His Holiness to throw. "Then the young
man was not immediately answered, Orazio was added in a tone of benevolent persuasion: "Would you
not at least the annoying Poem that you entered by the devil to take
back?

"

"Why not?" Said Lance lottery. "Most of all, all poems of His Holiness, if I could. "

It was Don Orazio impossible to hold back the laughter, the Cardinal, however, felt only a weak
incentive to merriment, as the consciousness of the unpleasantness of his position continually
in him increased.

How did perceive the poor young man that the visit by a certain interest
led to its liberation was tinged the hope of awakening his pale cheeks,
a Hint more red, and restrained by his previous behavior was shaking
so calm unrest.

Whether it would not be effective, he said, by his glances between the two men back and forth
let go when his mother turned to the mercy of the Pope? She would do anything save him and he could play
it.

At her instigation, the two men would certainly kindly share with so many came to him.

The Cardinal nodded and let fall a few words, like love of the unfortunate woman and her Son
be declining, although he is already so severe her grief.

"Not by my fault," said Lance Lotto free and friendly, "for I would be ever so guilty, I would not
doubt her love but, for I am still in her heart, as I once in her
body was, and God himself with his omnipotence could not tear myself.

"

As he spoke, his eyes were moistened and shiny and were therefore become darker, and the two men fell
on it now, that those eyes unusually narrow and many were just like the older painter's eyes
of the cherubim and the glorified saints are accustomed to

.


But 'tis always the way with these sudden-come-ups, they never have the easy carriage that
comes from breeding, and 'tis too much to expect she should be a topping courtier.

You must know Horry Walpole was there, in gray and silver brocade, as fine and finical a gentleman
as ever, and most genteelly lean; and says I to him:--

"What think you, Mr Walpole, of our two coquet Irish beauties? Do they put out all the fire
of our English charmers?"

So he drew himself up and took a pinch of rappee (can't you see him, Kitty, my girl?), and
says he:--

"Madam, to a lady that is herself all beauty and need envy none, I may say we have a beauty
to be produced shortly to the town that will flutter all the world, excepting only the lady
I have the honour to address."

And, Lord! the bow he made me, with his hat to his heart!

"La, man," says I, "who is she? But sure I know. 'T is the Duchess of Queensberry reduced a
good half in size and with a new complexion."

But Horry shook his ambrosial curls.

"No, Madam, 'pon honour! A little girl with the vivacity of sixteen and brown eyes, brown hair--in
fact, a brown beauty."

And then it flashed on me and I says:--

"Good God!--Maria! But sure she can't be presented. 'Tis impossible!" And could have bit my
silly tongue out when't was said.

He shrugged his shoulders like a Frenchman,--'tis the last grace he picked up in Paris,--and
turned from me to the new lady errant, Miss Chester, who models herself on the famous Miss
Chudleigh.

But nothing could equal the horrid indecency of Miss Chudleigh's habit at the Ranelagh Masquerade
some five years back, when Mrs Montagu, observing her, said: "Here is Iphigenia for the sacrifice,
but so naked the high priest may inspect the entrails of the victim without more ado." And
says Horry: "Surely, 'tis Andromeda she means herself, and not Iphigenia!" I thought we should
have died laughing. The Maids of Honour were then so offended not one of 'em would speak to
her. They are not such prudes today, and Miss Chester has as much countenance as she looks
for. Alas, it takes a wise woman, if not a good one, to know just where certainty should stop
and imagination take its place!

But, Kitty child, who do you guess is the new beauty? I give you one, I give you two, I give
you three! And if 'twas three hundred, you'd be never the wiser. Why, Maria Walpole, you little
blockhead! Maria, the daughter of Sir Edward Walpole, Horry's brother. What think you of that?
But Sir Edward never was married, says you. True for you, Kitty, but don't you know the story?
No, to be sure. There's no scandal in Ireland, for St. Patrick banished it along with the snakes
and their poison, because the island that has so many misfortunes would have died of another.

Well, take your sampler like a good little girl and hearken to the history of the lovely Maria
that's to blow out the Gunning candles. Let me present to your la'ship Sir Edward Walpole,
brother to the Baron of Strawberry Hill. A flourish and a sliding bow, and you know one another!
Sir Edward, who resembles not Horry in his love for the twittle-twattle of the town, is a passable
performer on the bass viol, and a hermit--the Hermit of Pall Mall. But the rules of that Hermitage
are not too severe, child. 'Tis known there were relaxations. And notably one.

The Hermit some years since was lodged in Pall Mall; and in the lower floors was lodged a dealer
in clothes, with prentices to fetch and carry.

Lord! says Kitty, what's this to the purpose? Attend, Madam. The curtain rises!

'Tis an old story: the virtuous prentice--and the unvirtuous. There was one of them--Dorothy
Clement, a rustic beauty, straw hat tied under the roguish chin, little tucked-up gown of flowered
stuff, handkerchief crossed over the bosom, ruffled elbows. 'Tis so pretty a dress, that I
protest I marvel women of quality don't use it! However, this demure damsel looked up at Sir
Edward under the hat, and he peeped under the brim, and when he left the house and returned
to his own, what should happen but the trembling beauty runs to him, one fine day, for protection,
swearing her family and master have all cast her off because 'twas noted the gentleman had
an eye for a charming face.

Well, child, 'tis known hermits do not marry. 'Tis too much to ask of their Holinesses. But
he set a chair at the foot of his table for the damsel, and bid her share his pulse and crusts;
and so 'twas done, and whether in town or country, the Hermitess kept him company till she
died. Sure the Walpoles are not too fastidious in their women, excepting only Horry of Strawberry
Hill, who has all the finicals of the others rolled up in his lean body.

Well, Kitty, there were four children: a boy,--nothing to the purpose,-- and Laura, Maria,
and Charlotte. And the poor lasses, not having a rag of legitimacy to cover 'em, must needs
fall back on good behaviour and good looks. I saw Laura, a pretty girl, in the garden at Englefield
some years since, when I was airing in Lady Pomfret's coach; and as we looked, the little hoyden
Maria comes running up in muslin and blue ribbons, all health and youth and blooming cheeks
and brown curls and eyes--a perfect Hebe. And 'tis she--the milliner's brat--that's to borrow
the Car of Love and set the world afire. But she can't be presented, Kitty; for our high and
mighty Royals frown on vice, and not a single creature with the bar sinister can creep into
Court, however many may creep out. And that's that!

And now I end with compliments and curtseys to your la'ship, and the glad tidings that one
of the virgin choir of Twickenham, those Muses to which Mr Horace Walpole is Apollo, has writ
an Ode so full of purling streams and warbling birds, that Apollo says he will provide a sidesaddle
for Pegasus, and no male shall ever bestride him again.

September, 1758.

O la, la, la! Was you ever at the Bath, child? Here am I just returned, where was great company,
and all the wits and belles, and Miss Biddy Green, the great city fortune, run off with Harry
Howe, and her father flourishing his gouty stick in the Pump Room and swearing a wicked aristocracy
should have none of his honest guineas. But he'll soften when he sees her presented at Court,
with feathers stuck in her poll and all the city dames green with spite. 'Tis the way of the world.

But to business. He was admitted and made his
show and gave all that had been stolen from him. The magistrate was him, he should immediately
go to his father, which was the only farmer in the village, the Horses have, and should patrol
with him and his brother around the area, whether he might come on the track of the robbers,
however, he wanted to send other people on foot and Mueller, when he came to hear about the other
circumstances. Kasper was shifted from the Magistrate away after her father's house, but as he
passed my hut had through the window and heard that I sang a hymn, as I thought because before
do not sleep on his late mother was, so he knocked and said, "Praise be to Jesus Christ Love,
Grandmother, Kasper is here. "Oh, how I drove right through the words and Leg! I rushed to
the window, opened it and kissed and hugged him with infinite Tears. He told me his misfortune
with great haste and said, what job he his father from the magistrate did, now he has to drum
out the same, to nachzusetzen the thieves, for his honor depended on it, that he get back
his horse.

I do not know, but the word honor, I drove right by all the members, because I knew heavy Dishes
that were before him. "Do your duty and give God alone be the glory!" I said; and he ran from
me after Finkel's courtyard, which lies at the other end of the village. I declined, as he continued,
was on his knees and prayed to God to love him but in its protection, oh, I prayed with anxiety
than ever and had to keep saying this: "Lord, thy will be done as it is in heaven on earth. "

The Kasper ran to his father with a terrible fear. He climbed back over the garden fence, He heard the
Plumpe go, he heard neighing in the stable, which he drove through the soul, and he was still,
he saw in the moonlight, that two men washing themselves, it would break his heart. One said:
"The damned stuff does not go down", since "the other" come first in the stable, cut off the
horse's tail, and to blend the mane. Did you Knapsack buried deep enough beneath the dung ?"--"
Yes, "said the other. So they went the stable, and Kasper, with grief like a madman jumped out
and closed the Stalltuere behind them and shouted: "On behalf of the Duke Surrender Who is opposed
to the shoot! I reflected, "Oh, he had his father and his step-brother as the robbers of his horse
caught. "My honor, my honor is lost!" he shouted, "I am the son of an infamous . Thief "When the
two in the house heard this, they feel is bad now, they shouted: "Kasper, Kasper dear, for God's
sake, do not bring us into misery, Kasper, you shall yes have everything back to your blessed
mother's sake, that of death is today, have mercy ! Your father and brother "Kasper was in despair,
he cried just always:" My honor, my duty, "and now that she wanted to vomit by force the doors,
and a tray in the Push in mud wall to escape, he fired a pistol into the air and shouted: "Help
there, Help there, thieves, help! "The farmers, from the magistrate raised, which already
is approaching, to get over to discuss the various ways in which they break into the mill wanted
to pursue, collapsed on the shot and the screaming into the house. The old pleaded Finkel still,
the son should he open the door, but said: "I am a soldier and must . Of justice are "Da approached
the magistrate and the farmers Kasper said.: "For God's sake, Mr. magistrate, my father, my brother
is even the thieves, oh that I had never been born! Here in the stable I have caught my pack lies
buried in the dung. " As the farmers jumped into the stable and tied the old Finkel and his son
and dragged them into her room. Kasper, however, dug out the knapsack and took out the two
wreaths and did not go into the room, he went to the cemetery to the Grave of his mother. The
day had dawned. I had been on the field and had said he was Kasper for me and two wreaths of
little flowers do not forget my braided, and I thought he with me to decorate the grave of his
mother when he comes back from his ride. As heard I all sorts of unusual noise in the village,
and because I do not like the fray and prefers 'm alone, I walked around the village to the
cemetery. There fell a shot, I saw the Steam rising into the air, I hastened to the churchyard
- oh, dear Saviour, have mercy on his! Kasper was dead on the grave of his mother, he had the ball
shot through the heart; to which he is the wreath, which he brought for beautiful Annerl attached
to the knobs had, by this ring he had shot himself in the heart. The wreath for the mother
had he already attached to the cross. I thought the Earth would be under me on at the sight, I
rushed over him and kept shouting: "Kasper, O thou most unhappy man, what have you done? Oh, who
has since told you your misery? O why have I left you from me before I told you everything! God,
what is your poor father, tell your brother when you ! To occur, "I did not know that he is
done for this suffering, I thought it have a very different cause. Since it was far worse. The
magistrate and the farmers brought the old Finkel and his son bound with cords, and the misery
I stifled the voice in the throat, I could not speak a word, the magistrate asked me if I think
Grandchildren are not seen. I even showed where he lay. He came up to him, he thought he was
crying on the Grave, he shook him, as niederstuerzen he saw the blood. "Jesus, Mary!" he exclaimed,
"Kasper the hand has set itself." Since saw the two prisoners at horrible; they took the body of
Kasper and carried him beside them forth to the house of the magistrate; It was a wailing in
the village, the peasant women after me executed. Oh, it was probably the most horrible way
in my life! "

The old woman was quiet again, and I said to her: "Dear mother, your suffering is terrible,
but God has loved you right; he hits the hardest, are his beloved children. Tell me now, dear
mother, what made you to go all the way here, and what You want to file a petition? "

"Oh, that He can surely imagine," she continued calmly, "to give you honest grave Kasper and the
beautiful Annerl that I bring the wreath on her special day, and it is quite Kaspers undermining
with blood, he see again! "

Then she drew a small circle of tinsel from her bundle, and showed it to me and I could look at
the break of day that he was blackened by powder and sprinkled with blood. I was completely torn
apart by the accident of the good old man, and the size and strength
with which she wore it fills me with admiration.

"Oh, dear mother," said I, "as you will the poor but their poverty Annerl teach them that they
like sinks not dead with terror, and what is it for a day of honor to which you bear the sad
Annerl the ring? "

"My dear man," said she, "Let him come with us, He can accompany me to her, I can not not quickly
away, and then we will find just the right time yet. I want him on
the road still tell everything.

"

Now they stood and prayed their morning prayer and quietly took their
clothes in order, and its bundle it then depends on my arm, it was
two clock in the morning, the day dawned, and we walked through the
quiet streets.

"He eyesight," said the old woman, "as the Finkel and his son were
imprisoned, had I on the magistrate the court room, and the dead Kasper
was placed on a table and covered with his Ulanenmantel, carried in,
and now I had it all to the magistrate Say what I knew of him and
what he had told me this morning through the window.

He wrote everything down on his paper that lay before him. Then he saw the writing board by
which they found in Kasper, stood in there many bills, some stories was of the honor, and
also from the French officer, and behind her with a pencil wrote. "Then the old woman gave me the
wallet, and I read the following last words the unfortunate Kasper: "I also can not survive
my disgrace My father. my brother are thieves, they have stolen from myself, my heart broke,
but I had capture them and handed over to the courts, for I am a soldier of my princes, and my
honor me no mercy. I have my father and brother, handed over the revenge for honor. Oh, please anyone
but for me that I am here, where I fell am an honest grave next to my mother's Grant that!
The Kraenzlein, by which I shot, is to send the beautiful Grandmother Annerl and say hello
from me, oh, I'm sorry it through and through, but it is still the son of a thief not to marry
for she has always kept a lot of honor. Love beautiful Annerl you not so keen frightened about
me, give you satisfied, and if you were good to me ever a little, so do not speak ill of me!
I can not do anything for my shame! I had so many Trouble to remain in honor of my life, I have
been commissioned officer and had the best reputation in the squadron, I would certainly once
again become an officer, and Ane, up I would have not left yet and would have no betters wooed
- but the son of a thief, the honor of his father caught judge ourselves and be inside, can not
survive his disgrace. Ane, Ane dear, take the garland but yes, I'm always been faithful, God
have mercy on me! I give you your freedom back now, but do me the honor and marry never one
that would be worse than me. And if you can, so please for me that I an honest grave next to
my mother get, and if you should die here in our place so let us bury you in, and the good Grandmother
will come to us, as are we are all together. I put fifty dollars in my knapsack that should be
on interests be for your first child. My Silver Clock should have the pastor, if I honestly be buried.
My horse, uniform and weapons belonging to the Duke, this my wallet heard yours. Good-bye, heart of thousands
of treasure Farewell, dear Grandmother, pray for me and all well - God have mercy on me oh,
my despair is great! "

I could those last words of a certain noble unfortunate people are not without bitter Read tears
.-- "The Kasper has been a good person at all, dear mother," I said to the ancients, who stood
by these words, squeezed my hand and deeply moving Voice said. "Yes, it was the best man in the
world, but the last words of despair If he had not intended to require him to bring his honest
grave, bring it on the anatomy. Oh, dear writer if he could only help in this! "

"Why, dear mother?" I asked, "what these last words can help ?"--"

Yes certainly, "she replied," the magistrate has told me so himself. It is an order of all meals
delivered, that only the Selbstmoerder of melancholy to bury honest are all but out of desperation
the hand itself, to the anatomy, and the Magistrate has told me that he Kasper, because he himself
confessed his despair, would have to send to the anatomy. "

"This is a strange law," I said, "because you could probably every
one suicide Process do if he emerged from melancholia or despair that
will last as long to be held that the judge and the lawyer fell over
in melancholy and despair and come to the anatomy.

But are only comforted, dear mother, our Duke is a as good a master, when he hears the whole
thing, he is certainly a place for the poor Kasper vouchsafe next to the mother. "

"God grant it!" replied the old woman. "He sees now, dear man: as the magistrate all had put on
paper, he gave me the wallet and the ring for this lovely Ane, and then yesterday I'm running here
so I told her on their special day even the consolation can give
to the way .-- The Kasper has died at the right time, if he had known
all it would be foolish become of grief.

"

"What is it now with the beautiful Annerl?" I asked the old woman, "soon you say, they have
only a few hours, now you talk of their special day, and they will win consolation by your
sad news. Tell me everything out, they will be married with a others, she is dead, ill? I need
to know everything so I can put it in the petition.

"

As the old woman replied: "Oh, dear writer, it is now as God's will be done See! He came as Kasper,
I was not very happy when Kasper took his own life, I was but not quite sad, I could not have survive
if God is not my would have had mercy with greater suffering.

Yes, I tell him I was from a stone the Heart out, like an icebreaker, and all the pain that
crashed on me as ground- and would have me thrown off the heart sure that broke on the stone
and drove cold over. I want to tell him something that is lost:

When my patch, the beautiful Annerl, lost her mother, who was a base of mine and seven Miles
of us lived, I was sick with the woman. She was the widow of a poor farmer and loved in their
youth had a hunter, and him because of his wild life not taken. The Jaeger had finally come to
such misery that, due to the death a murder caught sitting. The learned my cousin on her sick
bed, and she did so hurt that she was worse every day and finally in their hour of death, when
she told me the love Ane nice as my patching a ceremony, and took leave of me, even in the last
moments said to me: "Dear Anne Margret, when You come through the
town, where the poor Juergen is caught, he sent word through the Gefangenwaerter
that I beg him on my Death bed, he should turn to God, and that I
have sincerely prayed for him in my last hour, and that I will greet
him beautiful.

"- Soon after these words died good base, and when she was buried, I took the little Annerl that
was three years old, on the arm and walked her home.

Before the town through which I had, I passed the Scharfrichterei, and because the master was
famous as a cattle doctor, I should take some medicine for our Mayor. I entered the room and
told the master what I wanted, and he replied that I should follow him to the ground where he
had located the herbs, and help him choose. I let Annerl in the room and followed him. When we stepped
back into the room, stood Annerl is "Grandmother, there: in front of a small barrier, which
was mounted on the wall, and said a mouse in there, heard how he rattles;! there is a mouse
in it "

In this speech, the child was the Master a very serious face, tore the closet up and said, "God
be merciful to us," because he saw his sword, which alone in the
cupboard hung on a nail, waver back and forth.

He took down the sword, and I was frightened. "Lady," he said, "if you have love for the little
love Ane, so do not be scared if I told him with my sword, around the little neck, slit open
the skin a little, for the sword have swayed before him, has asked for his blood, and when I put
the neck in order not crack, so the child is great misery in life before. "Then he took the child,
which is horrible began to cry, I cried and also tore the back Annerl. Entered by the mayor enter
the town, who came from the hunt and for the judge to cure a sick dog wanted to. He asked about
the cause of the clamor, Annerl shouted: "He wants to kill me!"

I was beside myself with terror. The judge told the mayor the event. This drew him his superstition,
as he called it, heavily and strong threats; the judge was very quiet there and said, "So having kept
my fathers, keep ego." As the mayor said, "Master Franz, if you thought, your sword was stirred
to I hereby display because you that tomorrow morning at six to the clock of you Juergen Jaeger
be beheaded, I want to forgive, but it something that you love to this Child was about to close,
which is unreasonable and mad. It might something like a man bring in despair when he later
said in his old age, that he in his Youth had happened. One should not lead people into temptation
."--" But none Judge sword, "said Master Franz before him, and hung his sword back in the closet.


Poor Maria Coventry is dead--the most lovely woman in England, setting aside only t' other
Maria. 'Twas from usage of white lead, Kitty, and tell that to all the little fools you know!
It devoured her skin, and she grew so hideous, that at the last she would not permit the doctors
to see her ruined face, but would put out her hand between the curtains to have her pulse took.
She was but twenty-seven years of age.

There was not a woman in the Three Kingdoms but envied the Gunnings, and was 't not yourself
told me, "the Luck of the Gunnings" was become a proverb in Ireland, and the highest wish for
a girl? What will the sermonizers say now? That 'tis best to be homely and live to eighty?
I know not; but 'tis as well the choice is not given, for I believe there is not ten women
living but would choose as did Maria Coventry. Her beauty was her god, and if she sacrificed
herself on the altar, 'tis but what the gods look for.

Sure, I am Death's herald, for I must tell you my Lord Waldegrave is dead of the smallpox,
and the beauty a widow after but four years' marriage. I saw her but yesterday, full of sensibility
and lovely as Sigismonda in Hogarth's picture. She had her young daughter, Lady Elizabeth,
in her lap, the curly head against her bosom, the chubby cheek resting on a little hand against
the mother's breast. Sure never was anything so moving as the two--exact to the picture Mr
Reynolds painted.

She has a great tenderness for his memory, and well she may, when the position he raised her
to is considered. 'T is like a discrowned queen, for her jointure is small, and she is now
no more consequence to his party, so his death has struck away her worldly glory at a blow.
Indeed, I pitied her, and wiped away her floods of tears with tenderness that was unaffected.
But for such a young woman, I won't believe the scene is closed. What--are there no marquises,
no dukes, for such perfection?

But 't is brutal to talk so when she is crying her fine eyes out. I wipe my naughty pen and
bid you adieu.

Two days later.

I attended Mrs Minerva Montagu's reception, and there encountered the Great Cham of Literature,
Dr Johnson, rolling into the saloon like Behemoth. Lady Waldegrave's bereavement was spoke
of and says he:--

"I know not, Madam, why these afflictions should startle us. Such beauty invokes ill fortune,
lest a human being suppose herself superior to the dictates of Providence."

"Certainly she is the first woman in England for beauty," says I, very nettled; "but 't is
to be thought she had chose a little less beauty and rather more good fortune, had she been
consulted. 'T is hard she should be punished for what she could not help!"

"Let her solace herself with her needleworks, Madam. A man cannot hem a pocket handkerchief
and so he runs mad. To be occupied on small occasions is one of the great felicities of the
female train and makes bereavement more bearable."

'T is a bear roaring his ignorance of the world, my dear. But he has a kind of horse sense
(if the female train would but let him be) that makes him endurable and even palatable at times.

Mrs. Montagu informed us 't is rumoured that my Lady Mary Wortley Montagu (who you know is
her cousin's cousin) thinks to return to England after being absent half a lifetime. I have
a prodigious curiosity to see such a rarity. As for her beauty, that must be vanished, but
her biting wit may outlive it, and Heaven send her here safe, I pray, to give a lash to the
follies of more than one I could name, had I the malice. Were she to write a book of her life,
't would be the best reading in the world, could one wash their eyes and mind after reading it.

1764.

Kitty, my dear, have you forgot that, when my Lord Waldegrave died, I writ, "Are there no dukes
to pursue the lovely widow?" Give honour to the prophet! She refused the Duke of Portland,
that all the fair were hunting with stratagems worthy of the Mohawks. She refused this, that,
and t' other. And the town said: "Pray who is the milliner's daughter, to turn up her nose
at the first matches in England? Has she designs on the King of Prussia,--for our own young
monarch is wed to his Charlotte,--or is it the Sultan, or His Holiness the Pope that will content
her ladyship?"

No answer. But, Kitty, 't is me to smell a rat at a considerable distance, and I kept my nostrils
open! Our handsome young King has a handsome young brother,--His Royal Highness the Duke of
Gloucester,--and this gentleman has cast the sheep's eye, the eye of passion, upon our lovely
widow! What think you of this? That it cannot be? Then what of the King Cophetua and other
historic examples? I would have you know that in the tender passion there's nothing that cannot
be. It laughs at obstacles and rides triumphant on the crest of the impossible. I knew it long
since, but 't is over the town like wildfire now.

Meeting my Lady Sarah Bunbury yesterday, says she:--

"Lady Fanny, sure you know the Duke of Gloucester is desperately in love with my Lady Waldegrave.
Now don't mask your little cunning face with ignorance, but tell me what's known. What have
you heard from Horry Walpole?"

"Nothing, your la'ship," says I, very demure.

"Well," says she, "'t is reported the King has forbid him to speak to his fair widow, and she
is gone out of town. He has given her two pearl bracelets worth five hundred pound. That's
not for nothing surely. But for what?"

"Indeed, 't is an ambiguous gift, Madam," says I, whimsically; "and may mean much or little.
Give me leave to ask whether 't is Pursuit or Attainment as your la'ship reads it?"

But she tossed her head, the little gossip, and off she went.

I can tell you thus much, Kitty: the Walpoles are main frightened. It may be a cast-back to
the principles of the milliner mother. And there was never the difference between her and Sir
Edward Walpole that there is between Maria and a Prince of the Blood. Her birth is impossible.
My Lady Mary Coke asking me if the mother were not a washerwoman, says I, "I really cannot
determine the lady's profession."

Poor Lady Mary is run clean mad with jealousy and spite, for 't is not so long since she believed
herself on the way to be a Royal Duchess, imagining the late Duke of York to be her lover--a
gentleman so passionately in love with himself as to leave no room for another. She wore her
blacks when he died, like a widow. 

Re-mastered the sovereign his hot blood, cool, almost mockingly, he said, "German I giving evidence,
the word right, and it is not hard to interpret, so haunting in your minds Spirit of rebellion!
"

Both Alts winced.

As a helping hand Salome "Verstattet my lord and master mediate a word! "

Surprised cried Wolf Dietrich, "How? Majestic beauty will go into the field of politics? "

"Excuse me, gracious sovereign! I feel good about the harsh rebuke in the words Ew. High Princely
Grace and readily admit to his authorization.

A woman, a girl should remain silent even now, important men in circles will discuss the welfare
of the country and considered. A woman - "

"A royal woman," murmured Wolf Dietrich and an admiring glance seemed
nice shape Salome want to include.

Klug took advantage of the moment like Salome flattery: "A woman does not understand the importance
of the political matters, but can often detect female feeling better,
the core of a thing To recognize as a wise man's head, wasmaßen the
woman is usually not affected by secondary things.

"

"Oh Why, the diplomat in the wide skirt," the prince laughed, amused.

Bravely asserted Salome: "Ew. High Highness will admit that I am in the same interrogated thing'm
not influenced unquestionably, as with crime and criminal Processes,
I create in my whole life long, had nothing and I hope to be spared
from it To stay busy until the age of snow on my head and beyond.

"

"Oh, carissima mia! How can the sweetest creature on earth evoke the horrors of old age; disturb
the harmonious beautiful impression, which delighted my heart!

Snow on your golden head, lovely goddess of my soul! Banish me kind of thinking! Away with it! I
can picture this word Scared, I hate it! "

"And yet that time will come over me! But your wish, my lord, I am Command today, and as long
as I live - "

"Do you hear it," Wolf Dietrich turned to the two old men, "so speaks a Unterthanin Salzburg's
wise, and result in the prince's will, and would like all of the
subjects Schönsalome, it is a joy and pleasure, Mr. would be! - But
speak of what your breast may move!

"

"My Ohm," said Salome, "the mayor has revered it honestly, though perhaps too hasty, expressed
that too much was made of the rights of Salzburg, that the Council was reduced to meaningless
executive.

The truth is that word and your partner is not much more than the town bailiff niece, not worth the
side of the most gracious prince and to sit sovereign! "

Galant said Wolf Dietrich: "beauty ennobles and raises!"

"By no means, my lord! A prince is never erküren a woman who is almost not free, of low birth, the
woman may be part angel beautiful!

"

"A lawyer, as I do my thing can not do better!" Flattered the prince, and added, "But your premise
is wrong: The daughter of an old William, the rich Merchant prince, is not of low birth contraire,
au, the most noble one in my country, not only of the nobility! - Is the wrong premise, the conclusion
can not be right! But wants the grace embodied in such bemeldter thing? "

"Give, my lord, the city's ancient rights again, let her a degree of freedom, self-determination,
and I'm sure of: the looser the reins, the more joyfully obey the
horse the slightest command of the Lord!

"

A long, loving gaze of the young ruler was on Salome, and Wolf Dietrich quietly almost everything
to say it began: "Seductive words, sweet Kling Klang! I give the Council is to me the landscape
stubborn!

And cancel the-blank Councilor order, this laborious Work of my lawyers impossibile! "

Salome dared put a trial: "Forgive me, my lord! The scenery was sure you will and has agreed to any
tax measure "

"Yeah! Annoying enough, the traditional requirement that the prince must face the landscape with any new
tax alert! Her beautiful Salome want to emphasize as a special merit
the ever-structure-approval!

Forgive me the hard word: This woman is not enough sense! Do you know why the fires have been
as tax-happy and always agreed without resistance? I will let you solve this riddle: hope was
no more, calculated on the Prince Good nature, hope, resilience and willingness sothane by
some of the earlier Right recover! "

"And deceived sothane hope?"

Salome asked to glance and turned his eyes directly in the prince's
eye.

Now eye to eye with stunningly beautiful girl who could not Wolf Dietrich rugged, true "to say
yes, he resorted to words of excuse, by a subsequent reform assured the matter.

A shade of annoyance flitted across the face of Salome, and Wolf saw this cloud in immediately.
"If it is granted to know the City Council and my lovely table Comrade consolation that appear
privileges of other classes nor capable of reform, I will say jetzund: The past Tax exemption
of the nobility and the clergy seems to me unfair. Needs of citizens
and Farmers pay should also nobility and clergy!

And so dixi! "

Alts both knew in their infinite surprise to do nothing other than the significant repeating phrase:
"Must pay the citizens and farmers, it will nobles and clergy, too!"

The woman mayor had "paid" by the murmur of the word understood, and
this Word exerted on the worthy woman, the same effect as in all Salzburg
patrician, which the accumulation of episcopal charges, the constant
tightening of the control screw Abomination was.

Therefore also the same old woman began to wail at the horror of her husband. Wilhelm Old sister
tried to calm her by pointing out that this time the nobility and the clergy alike, and it
was only in the order.

"Oh, have it myself, the clergy," said Mrs. Alt.

"Hold it, sister in law, it is not the poor country clergy, but rather
the rich monasteries and canons, which will only pay the prince was
there all right!

"

The Wolf Dietrich had his ear heard this half-vocalization, and the
consent of reputable merchant prince replied the young prince in a
rosy mood.

"I'm glad, dear Old!

You see, we find the mode viviendi; the beginning of an understanding between the Prince and
people are made in this way, we want to progress and stay. "Turning to Salome Wolf Dietrich
said: "Will the cloud does not differ from the pure brow?

I think we are in harmony! Can I prove the majesty of beauty a service, speak, Goddess, you
see Prince willing service as a slave, your haschend for a ray of sunshine grace! "

Salome smiled in perfect grace, her cherry lips curled into a low, good-natured Scorn: "To believe
this, my lord, is difficult for me! Slavishly is nothing to pop. High Princely Grace, the high
point in the high spirit of what the dignity!

I want my gracious sovereign never know in a slave position! "

"You understand it well, put the words fine, a notary could learn from you! But I also spoke of
feeling is all the fire with care and deep meaning in my Words, as I say, slave, I would like
to be, so your favor would make me happy!

A titter followed this gallant protestations, then whispered Salome: "So my Lord today weird gebfreudig
is, will I take the opportunity with both hands and I ask Ew.

High Highness the Verlaubnis, a glass of Rhenish wine to drink may
on the health of our gracious Lord!

"

"We want to do happy, beautiful goddess, but not hard German wine to your lips Rose , We take
precious Terranto networks, which thrives in Vicenza sky, "said Wolf
Dietrich and turned to the mayor with the question of whether this
fine Italian wine has to have.

"For the high happiness, Ew.

High Highness to know at this table belongs - Thalhammer finely proven
tongue!

"quacked Ludwig old, the mess the unexpected question the idea brought.

"What? What he means, "cried the astonished prince.

"My lord will allow me to enlighten the dark mind the words of my Ohms!" Salome threw in quickly,
"the good Ohm wanted to say that only the Council can know Thalhammer, whether for the desired
table wine available is precious! "

Wolf Dietrich laughed amused whether the wit of his beautiful table Comrade: "When Zeus! I have
called you in my Councilor, we can use such rhetoric indeed! "

"Whether it be the worthy gentlemen would not be as confused head?" Scoffed Salome.

"May you be right, for the old pen-pusher, the folios good, but not the flower feminine beauty and
grace! Young people want their rights, they should raise their hands afterwards, not the grumpy
old man! "

The mayor, meanwhile, had Thaler, who was sitting at the bottom of
the table, cites, and soon could the prince desired Terranto wine
are served.

Two cups were filled, and Wolf Dietrich met with Salome: "On your honor, Queen! Every drop of
this fine wine from the sunny south, the home of art, love and wine,
renew your Life for many years, every drop here on earth means an
abundance of happiness!

Long live the Goddess Beauty, long live Salzburg's loveliest flower girl! "

Salome had lowered his eyes, deep blush covered her cheeks, the cup was shaking in her slender
hand.

"Will my queen I do not enjoy the view from the sweet eyes?" Whispered Wolf Dietrich.

As Salome lifted the eye, the eyes met, anxious, hesitating she said, "Too much of the Praise
and grace is on me! Infatuation act the words! Too big is the gap that separates us! You simply
are the prince and great man, I a citizen daughter! Let me in the ground, where only I thrive!
- "

"Is your toast, Salome," asked a little stretched the prince.

"My lord and master, I drink to the health of inhabitants. High Princely Grace and - "

"And?"

"And please, I may remain your grace and mercy!"

"Yes, we want to drink! You my love forever, tell me your grace and - "

"And?"

"And love," whispered the young, fiery ruler and sent a flaming glance
Salome, the suddenly blushed and fell silent.

Different courses of sumptuous banquet had been served now, but always had Wolf Dietrich indicated
by a gesture that he would not be disturbed in the interview. This example was followed and
Salome, and Louis was old it his duty to any Moment the prince to be available, so the Mayor
gave up the food. After the diet, the old Ludwig had with him, was now to delicious roast pheasant
to the series are, with a new feature in the cover charge for this
time.

It has been customary, to have frequently hand water with towels around enough so that the diners,
the Hands can clean.

Even today, this was the case. Now to the meat of today's pheasant Meal, to increase the festival
was hatched by both Alts, planned an innovation just now the Round Table should be presented,
and this innovation was the first time official administration of forks. [2] Louis was not a little
old interested in the effects this change and had ordered that should the "pheasant-course" of this
commodity be presented.

Of course, the mayor was interested mostly to learn what The prince will say to sothaner innovation.

Wolf
Dietrich was already in a deep conversation with Salome and had no
eye still listen to the rest of society.

Prolonged hesitation would cause a noticeable disruption of the meal, the mayor therefore had
to give the signal, and immediately the waiter appeared, each one in the Form still pretty clumsy,
two-pronged fork to the right of each panel score reflected.

From the amount of chattering was the new instrument often not followed some of the guests but but
it fell at once, she took the fork, looked at it, drove it into the air, and declared by some
well-traveled older citizens of the use of these new instruments
table was, it was inevitable in practical trials.

In great animation was impaled what the surprise guests was reached and the pheasants were this
just right. Completely ignored the innovation was the Presidium of the panel; Altschen the families
they had known specially designed for today's meal, and the father
of the country devoted exclusively to his Neighbor table.

The boys were fine with the pheasants on silver plates, and was unwilling Wolf Dietrich drop,
as Salome requested, it should forget the lord but on the etching not quite wasmaßen this body and soul
together.

There would be for the royal guest of honor the pheasants present,
as Salome, and both used the new-fangled forks without the least sign
of surprise.

Salome was surprised that the mayor's not, but the familiarity of
the prince with the new instrument stunned and disappointed him so
that old Louis whispered to his brother: "He knows everything!"

Wilhelm
and whispered back: "Yes! That is in us all! "

Wolf Dietrich had
enjoyed with relish of the tasty food and then a view of the table
thrown at it vividly was done, for the serious dessert wine enjoyed
in large quantities Welsch from country exerted its effect on men
and women. "My love Salzburg drinkable wine, "said the prince to the
mayor, who protested at once that the ordinary People are comfortable
to hold the beer hops, because sweet wines are from because of inflation
and the costly transport only the well-off items reached.

"If for
many such wines imported into the archdiocese?

"Ew. High Highness
most humbly come up, yes, it bringeth forth no need to water and land
from all lands up to them, namely as the Rhine, Neckher (Neckar),
from Alsace, Franconia, and Easter Wine (From Austria), April wine
(Steiermark), from starvation (Hungary), much of Welsch country, they
heißet Terrantik, Raifel, Muscat, Malvasia of Napoli, Romani, so in
Greece grows, and also Rosatzer Farnätscher, Veltliner, and from the
Adige Traminer and Höpfwein and the like still some who knows the
tongue better than Thalhammer Dero submissive slave! "

"I am amazed!
Did not really that mean so much to Salzburg and much of the heavy
and expensive Wines to drink! "

Ludwig spoke prematurely old, "You
do not drink, sir, they booze it! A truck's, is a common throughout
Germany, and it helps as much as anything, one might fulminate against
it or take pains to himself a good change. The Saufteufel has them
all on the collar, Männerleut and woman, a pint of drinking her health,
children can even have the parents teach's probably the little ones!
A cross is a pity's and the wine devil! "

"And the mayor does not
know how the Council to control sothanem vices effectively," said
the Sovereign.

"Your Grace humbly come up, I can not, and better
people I Rumorknechte not to the body rush! "

"So! Now it appeareth
to me convenient that the sovereign is the Council know, I know a
way but it is not the time to publish it today already. I will remember
this, and the Saufteufel I move to the body, I force him, to leave
you can watch! "

"This may redound o lord, the man just a blessing,"
said Salome, the excessive Drinking pleasure was an abomination, and
it embarrassed to see how especially the young Sons of citizens without
regard to the presence of the sovereign awards for the wine in large
quantities.

"Your consent refreshed my mind, as Your grace, my heart
delights! I hope nothing Better than to be with you, dear Salome,
may also consult the government's actions. Silk Your willing to do?
"

Salome felt the deep, veiled meaning of this question, and red
hot shot into the clever Girl's cheeks, a tremor ran through her body,
quivering tone she replied: "How should I ever reach such a position?
Banned in the narrow confines of domesticity, forced to Time and manner
of quiet work, meaning, and tongue tied! But what I want to say, as
Prince daughters there are hardly different, and almost dried up in
dull bower! "

"So longs Salome out into the bright world full of
freedom?"

"That is not my sense of desire, my lord! I know the limits
and beug 'me readily this bid. What I long for hot, were a recording
of many things that you hardly taught us by name once!

"I really think it very pretty," she said, adding in the most winning manner, "I hope Miss
Burney and Miss P. approve it. Princess Elizabeth's gift is a fairing from Cheltenham--a most
elegant little box, containing a bottle of rose perfume which came to mama from India, in the
great box from the Bengal Nabob."

This would add interest to the gift, these bottles consisting of a minute tube of the precious
oil of roses, enclosed, as it were, in a thick tube of embossed glass, ornamented with gold
and sealed. Each of the lovely Princesses now brought her gift, and each spoke with us with
the most conciliatory softness. Princess Elizabeth said laughing:--

"How go the equerries' teas, Miss Burney? Do they still insist on their right to wait on you,
even when Mrs Schwellenberg is present?"

Miss Burney curtseyed, a little out of countenance. I put in my word:--

"Why, Ma'am, they are very constant. Because of this, the middlemen, the Bayern significant
Sums earned, this had always been committed, when fixing the price of salt to exert influence.
In earlier times there was controversy in this matter between farmers and Salzburg. Commented
Bavaria claimed by a document of Emperor Frederick III. That the archdiocese Salzburg the arbitrary
increase in the price of salt conferred, whether by fraud and ungiltig. In 1529, now had the Archbishop
Matthew Lang at a salt increase in Bavaria a countersigned by the chapter lapel of the contents
given that this and any future will depend on increases in the authorization of the Bavarian
dukes. It was felt now Salzburg to always be a ecclesiae gravamen and necessitas. In every election
since capitulation Herzog Ernst was, thus, as a permanent section, the obligation for the return
of the troublesome Reverse penetrate. Immediately after his accession had Wolf Dietrich, the reverse
to be joined, for a price increase, which led him to the miserable financial situation, the
granting of the Bavarian duke sought, but the chapter here against hostile behaved, not so much
against the obtaining of the authorization itself, as against the whole tone Reverse that, not worthy
of the cathedral chapter to the ratio of the archbishop and a Duke appeared. Wolf Dietrich was
keen to push through price increases, and in this Endeavor, he ignored the reverse tenor as the
reluctance of the Chapter members. It was because , a new reverse the increase of eight pence
two cruisers Salzburg for a load of salt (about 130 pounds) to fund the duke nor a penny above
allowed.

Wolf Dietrich, who has already begun to implement its plans and, accordingly,
no building loans more had was willing to increase the price of salt
again, and this time he led his intention made without consulting
the Duke of Bavaria and the pin-sized chapters.

Bayern protested and reported to Rome, the pope sent a mediator, and it was a tolerable ratio
built, but marred by the further price increases in the Lord always pin be had.

As things stood now, had Wolf Dietrich inconvenience, where he directed the eye liked. share of the
profits from the salt trade in Bavaria to the prince felt heavy; He wished the hated Treaty
as soon as possible to shake off, and conducted research for an excuse
to do so.

Wolf Dietrich had been delayed yet, so it was in hopes that will now be awarded the red hat
to the Archbishop. And therefore the prince had so far avoided a blatant violation of Bavaria.
Now, however, were confidential Releases of Rome in front of Archbishop's Palace, which no
doubt left about the fact that Bayern archbishop because of his relationship with Salome and for its
casual attitude Protestantism against the Vatican has denounced, so that Wolf Dietrich for
his Sentiment was suspected directly. Further, since on the fickle Clement Sixtus V. VIII became
pope, Wolf Dietrich was at a thorough assessment of the situation hide in Rome is not that
the prospects for the Cardinalate had to be called very bad.

Wolf Dietrich was brooding in his study of these secret letters and tried to himself to find a satisfactory
solution. With the Chancellor, he liked these matters discuss with as little as Lamberg, which
latter admit that the red hat as well was lost as the prince appeared
to be embarrassed.

Nevertheless, Wolf Dietrich felt the need to to discuss the situation with a smart, cool considering
the person, the feelings that his own Heated to head, his mind was angry too quickly. A thought was
Salome, the clever, beautiful Wife, but urged the prince that thought back. The situation is
too complicated, than for a woman's head should find the way out, trained in the collegium germanicum
Prince erklügeln can not. But has Wolf Dietrich does not have so many secret affair discussed
with Salome? And Salome had not always, despite the lack of any political and fall of diplomatic
training, the right thing, felt better, smarter devised better than it would have rubbed the
most councilors can bemeistern? If Wolf Dietrich but his Salome dedicating time and admits
that hope has become obsolete on the Cardinalate is Salome not be willing to take the consequences,
and urge that now in every respect Rome will fall behind?

"So be it! I need Salome's wise counsel, "whispered the prince and had to ask, may it Princess
is good enough to try him in the study.

And Salome came quicker than thought of this vibrant area, graceful,
with its wonderful Heartfelt devotion smile on his lips, but with
questioning eyes.

As the pages, who had accompanied the princess retired, taught Salome, to Taking the side of Princes
Square, the question of Wolf Dietrich, whether a special event command
has caused the release.

"How smart are you, Salome! As bright and beautiful, beloved!

And yes you guessed it: yes, bad Scouting makes me wish to discuss with you the neugeschaff'ne situation.
"

Wolf Dietrich discussed all the attention girlfriend listening to
now only for his comments Eye and ear was.

First, Wolf Dietrich had described the issue price of salt and then paused, looking inquiringly
directed to Salome.

Now spoke slowly, pondering each word, the favorite, "After all that my lord just discussed, it seems
to me: The advantage would be the pin country when a new contract
in the Salt export at a certain time limit would be set and Bavaria
is committed make exactly certain Hall trips [15] at this time.

Salzburg is also intended to work towards that only the pencil country could increase the price,
but then Bayern have no influence. "

Surprised cried Wolf Dietrich, "See one, how fine!

But Bayer much listen to his advisers and one of which will surely find such a leg-irons! It is
true that I deserve the right to increase, if it does the Emperor. "

"Will my Lord does not deal in detail?"

"You're welcome! As soon as the Kaiser, the owner of the mines of Hallstatt and Bad Ischl, a price
increase makes, I have the right to half of the increase to my Imperial Hall One salt to beat.
"

White, the Duke of Bavaria?

Wolf Dietrich shrugged his shoulders: "Whether he knows it is not
known to me, I do not think that has come from this document, a copy
to Munich.

"

"Well, put this case, my gracious Lord, to advance as you will, Salzburg advantage, the need to safeguard
the pin.

Bayern must take ship and Hallein salt; can Bayer as much salt does not wear out, so that's his
thing, he has yet to Salzburg . Pay "

"Fine conceived! The Duke will also come into the crowd, the price
of the imperial salt goes into the air.

Be that as it may now: it is to think hard to believe that such possibilities Bayern not given!
"

"There can bring across my good sir. First you write kindly to Munich and the establishment
of the salt cover proportioned for a certain period.

Go to the Bayer occurs, the fox is sitting in the iron.

Bayer wants out, he must strive to be market area to increase for the assumed salt "

"Admirable devised clever!

I had to proceed on schedule, with an increase and Bavaria to not
ask, your plan is fine, the possibility exists that the Duke Councils
the dangers in the new contract overlooked.

If not, then I must, of course, in my old Plan and must not proceed
further ask whether it is acceptable to the Bayern.

"

Then went over to the Wolf Dietrich Cardinalate-matter and told of the secret Letters that had arrived
from Rome.

Salome was interested in this more apparent why the prince was immediately cautious. After
all, he announced the girlfriend that the Pope Clement had the kindness to the Salzburg Archbishop
a "strange swift head" to name.

Salome interjected: "It's nothing bad?"

"It will be important, as the Pope says this, and the neighborly Bayer
is already like told on that the Pope used the vermeldten expression.

Clement will I see them as a "periculosum ingenium" - "

"What does that mean?" Salome said.

"You can slide back with verde, dangerous head!"

"Even in this definition we do not want to seem bad, provided that the new Pope is not bad Heget
intentions. "

"That is just not known to me. So much I think but to exclude the operations that one in Rome
is no longer well disposed towards me as before, and it blows a cross wind and Bayer has full
cheeks. "

"Let it blow, sir! Rome has never been more grateful. Better a clear recognition and Caution, because
a Fortglimmen deceptive hopes. The Prince of Salzburg to what he is, even without a red hat!
"

Wolf Dietrich went along with surprise that as soon Salome also the core of the Matter covered.

"Have I guessed right," asked the wise woman.

"Yes, sweetheart! Your fine mind has come true, my hope is shattered, I can thus no longer
hold himself. The Archbishop Wolf Dieter is - not Cardinal!

"This will be the greatest evil yet. Worse 'a dispute with Bavaria and the Emperor would! "

Defiantly cried the haughty prince: "If this ever, alternate 'my husband and I'll know how to wage
the sword.

But enough of the tiresome politics, there are better things kiss or on earth, and my gratitude to Salome's
hand, wants me bedünken a beautiful thing. " Gallantly kissed the prince of the narrow rights
of his sweetheart, and led Salome in her chambers, where he remained for a long time.

Weeks passed. To the great and pleasant surprise was proportioned to the new Bayern Contract is received
and its ratification. Wolf Dietrich was able to triumph, England has, without realizing it,
can take advantage of, and all influence in increasing the Salt price at which the Salzburg
was going on at once now lost. Too late it was realized Munich in the error, the Duke could not
cancel the contract, he could to take only institutions to increase their salt wear. This was
starting but the germ of great discord. Bayern withdrew from a bridge near the town of Passau
Vilshofen Between the salt trade, the same was done by building a bridge at Stadtamhof, which the
Regensburg were paralyzed. Of course, protested both cities, and in Prachatice Bohemia, the
main square of the so-called "Golden Path" to Bohemia, where the
salt of Passau went out, joined the protests, complained to the Supreme
Court in Speyer.

Meanwhile, this process was the Archbishop of Salzburg to be indifferent and Wolf Dietrich wait
how the Bayer will pull out of the loop.

But the matter pointed to, since now even the emperor himself was interested, because the salt
of Salzburg, that the competition had always been his, was constantly by the contract with
Bayern cheaper than from the works of Hallstatt and Bad Ischl obtained, it was so much more purchased
as the imperial salt, on the other hand, Bavaria was given as much
salt from the Archdiocese, that it could easily do without until then
the Emperor related salt.

Emperor Rudolf therefore supported the action in the Superior Court of Regensburg in Speyer, and
Wolf Dietrich had reason to look forward with all the tension of this salt the ruling process.
A year passed, however, until the Supreme Court pronounced the verdict
that Bavaria and Salzburg ordered to solve that Treaty.

Meanwhile it had happened to Salzburg, Wolf Dietrich that again, and
to the surprise the church-goers entered the pulpit of the church
and addressed the stunned Faithful held of which the chronicler: "He
(the Archbishop) is quite ainesmales unverthraut in the parish churches
stepped on Canzel and because of the Türgkhen, with the Been up violence,
the people Vermant to the forty-hour prayer quite faithfully and Vättern
well as high and large that of Nötten and how big you Nuzen with where
such with devotion coated create, could, where such a prayer has its
origin in ancient times and what Such have been and gewürkt report.

Also, pay damallen escorted to the Türggen Prayer the twelfth day umb Clock; have minimum as
Everybody, where they passed or stood with abdöcken Main niterknieent beds, under such and such people
were the nit NAMM in eight, same name the officers their Hüet, whether they would have the same
store but behaltn or or how they have made it darmit know I kan nit,
but this custom has Because the resist is lost, but leütten Thuet
one yet.

"

Wolf Dietrich had thus this sermon his condolences to Reich, emperor and Turkish threat announced,
the news from Speyer caused a sudden change of mind. Just met a Bavarian District Council to
discuss an aid request from the Emperor for the Turkish war, and at this Assembly Wolf Dietrich
had sent some of his advisers.

The decision of the Court of Appeal said the Archbishop of Speyer
produced the greatest anger and sat anyway its "swift sense" in lively
movement.

A courier was highlighted with Horses ride to the Bavarian district council and the boards of
the dismissal letter Salzburg ' handed.

Duke Max of Bavaria, just a little upset if the abrupt approach of
the Prince's neighbor, tried to assess the Salzburg 'envoy to stay,
but they knew their Master moved quickly and go home.

Max suggested by his councilors sent to Salzburg before, it would send a delegation of Salzburg
and Bavaria together on the Emperor and his ask for withdrawal of the appeal can Speyer.

Wolf Dietrich but would listen to no one, not to give up his advantage, and demanded It should
promise the Emperor in documents, to no longer support the opponents of Bavaria and Salzburg. Deny
this is the Emperor, would not grant his Salzburg Turks assistance.

This rugged attitude Wolf Dietrich provoked the greatest sensation in the kingdom, we wondered
in all regions of Germany over the unprecedented bold action by a sharp but what land As for
little princes. But the defiant victory, the emperor gave the promise in that Process matter
to go no further.

Now, to completely destroy the Emperor, advised against the wisdom,
as the recognition of the prince, Bayern but that could also prepare
sensitive problems, especially as the overreaching became increasingly
apparent.

Wolf Dietrich gave way. On a new district council he let his Messenger give his opinion as meaning
that he probably the emperor, grant support, but not required in height. In Salzburg namely
844 men met Turkish help, the Archbishop granted but only 500 men, but may not march with the other
troops of the Empire and must be commanded by a lieutenant colonel's Salzburg province. This
exceptional position but rejected the majority of the county, and Wolf Dietrich therefore summoned
from his ambassadors.

The subject of his attitude was not the emperor fail completely to
using less and less grant was requested as to the fact the emperor
in the matter pending salt exert pressure.

And so it should in time reach the point where through Salzburg Conduct which the German Empire was
shattered.

Emperor Rudolf Wolf Dietrich felt pressure, so small was the archbishopric,
and he found it advisable an agreement to pave over the salt issue
between Bavaria and Salzburg, so Salzburg's requests for assistance
not counteract.

In the cathedral town delegates of the Emperor, Bavaria and Salzburg councilors came to a Counseling
together and drafted a new contract, which in Salzburg in the main status quo remain, Bayern keep
the total salt trade in water, so that one of the city Passau should be administered only as much salt
as they consume themselves. It was therefore only therefore, the competition of the imperial and
the Salzburg 'salt in Bohemia reasonably make more tolerable for the emperor, the emperor should
therefore be allowed even 250 000 runners each year of Bavaria at
a set price and specific cities in Bohemia was introduced there by
any runner Bayern also the emperor five cruisers, refer to pay, but
price increases should be avoided whenever possible.

The Emperor refused the draft treaty.

Wolf Dietrich therefore decided to make the value of his friendship
to Caesar understandable.

Once before had the Archbishop aligning itself with the Palatine of Neuburg in order to to operate
a Diet to reform the imperial military system, even Wolf Dietrich on the same diet as a zealous
champion of rhetorical occurred Catholicism. The lost cardinal's hat as the refusal of the
Emperor induced in the salt question the prince to perform a swinging, Wolf Dietrich took the position
of the Protestant Movement Party, pointing to his ambassadors to endorse the peace with the Turks
necessarily although the state of affairs in Hungary to war imperatively
demanded.

At the Diet of Regensburg rattled together the opinions, the Salzburg
province Messenger instruction came under the imperial desires contrary
at once, they delayed the proceedings having regard to the lack of
specific instructions and also talked with the dissenting Palatines.

But the majority decided to approve a cash assistance under Roman months [16] Wolf Dietrich told
delegates: As this assistance is voluntary, so no one could be over Assets be encouraged also
to services, and the majority decision was therefore for Salzburg not authentic, but when the
Emperor, the Romans demanded eighty months, no group tax will demand more and are committed
to the Turkish control until the end of the previously approved to demand, and if moreover, the
imperial knights, the Hansa and the foreign countries would be used for services, then Archbishop
of Salzburg and declare Mr. although the payment of eight months
Romans ready.

All the Reichstag marveled at the determination of Salzburg 's statement on the refusal to submit to
a majority decision, the ignoring of the liability of such Decision on the part of a single state.
The sensation had to be all the greater when Salzburg a Catholic kingdom stand was opposed to
the Emperor and the Imperial Constitution. Salzburg shook the foundation of the empire.

Graf Lamberg, who was among the delegates themselves realized the resentment against his Lord
only too well, but could change to such effect of Salzburg 'demands nothing. He tried, however,
to do with the Bavarian Duke a modus vivendi, though only with the result that Duke Maximilian
replied, it also aids the high kingdom come hard on, but he would take this burden on himself because
he wanted to save the common country contribute.

Yet according to another side of the wise Count Lamberg was active, he urgierte the salt contract in
the environment of the Emperor and received assurances that ratification in late Time would
be made because the emperor could not do without the help of Salzburg.

With this important message Lamberg traveled immediately to Salzburg.

XII.

Wolf Dietrich had on the Regensburg Reichstag by its ambassador in moving words , Complaining
that he would like to make everything possible, but not grant Well-known could fall off because
of the Archbishopric in "poor and bad Mountains, the mines so strong are "- to build in his
capital had enough money for a number of the Archbishop, often forcibly opened sources, as well
as for himself, Salome and the place in the meantime Addition to the family, and got him appointed
to Salzburg brothers in abundant measure and capital accumulated,
which were loaned interest-bearing.

Wherever it was feasible, were old houses, huts and wheezing bought or traded and torn down, so
the piper lane, the bread market, where half the streets to the ground were made. The old with the
"Freyung" gifted Haun-Hof was also aborted and thus disappeared for ever the Imperial Freyung
to a murderer to three days Court granted refuge from the servants. The construction of the
cemetery to Skt Sebastian was Wolf Dietrich's work, as is the "new development" which was destined
for a second residence, but left was stuck. The unrest, the fickleness of the prince revealed in
these buildings; build break and put before their leave, which happened
quite often. For his brother Jakob Hannibal, colonels and court marshal,
he built the new building on the north the plate, where once stood
three houses that were demolished, a large palace, the is said to
have swallowed 80 000 guilders construction costs. A few years later,
the estranged brothers, Hannibal was forced to leave Salzburg, and
traveled with well-counted eighteen cars full of treasures in gold
and silver from Swabia. Wolf Dietrich in anger was the Hannibal Palace
and tear down make the earth the same. Innumerable are the beautifying
and improving buildings, gradually to give the city a different nature
began. The favorite wolf plan Dietrich began to be realized, Salzburg
changed his city and took an Italian Character of the new buildings,
it won the peculiar, captivating charm of the Renaissance. Overall,
had to disappear fifty-five homes to beautiful new buildings to make
room.

Wolf Dietrich knew how to overcome all difficulties, they opposed
its construction plans to he developed as much energy as capacity.
This proves, for example, the architectural history the magnificent
stables. From the Franciscan Monastery at the foot of the mountain
monk stretched Bürgerspittel the pen to a St. Peter's proper area,
the so-called Frongarten, which was used as a Benedictine Orchard,
Krantacker and hay field. In the spring until Georgi was permitted
to citizens of Salzburg, in this long garden A walk of Salzburg and
the youth was with ball and skittles are erlustieren there. At the
Georg days but was blocked Frongarten and remained closed throughout
the year to the following spring.

Resident in the parish and Getreidegasse
citizens had sought permission to use the backs to open their homes,
that they install windows and doors and fresh air and could achieve
the look of the Frongarten profit. The Benedictines of such wanted
Desire to know nothing. Because the smart people at Duke were representations,
and Wolf Dietrich found the idea excellent, and did his bidding on
the advice offered concerned citizens the filing of Burgrecht pennies
to what the monks really opening up the houses of the Kirch and Getreidegasse
Frongarten for granted. This is a principle was breached, the Start
has been made. Hardly had the allocations were made, appeared Wolf
Dietrich: the sovereign sought part of the Frongartens for his purposes,
and offered compensation from his estate. He has been
in London in perfect health, and I have it on good authority that he desired it might not be
told here."

I dared scarcely glance at Miss Burney. She was perfectly white and stood with her eyes fixed
on the ground. The Queen, seeing she had alarmed us, glided with her benignant grace into another
subject. I, who knew her mind, could perceive what was intended; but to Miss Burney it must
have been a thunderbolt.

Next morning the Princess Royal, coming to my room, lovely in her flowered sacque, and without
her hoop, her curls twisted with rose-hued ribbons, seemed to cast a radiance before her. She
paused at the door, and said condescendingly: "May I come in?"

I hastened to set her a chair, and after a little indifferent discourse she said with a touch
of melancholy:--

"I think Miss Burney has not been fairly treated. It is the Queen's opinion that Colonel Digby's
conscience prevents his coming hither. We are to offer our formal congratulations to him and
Miss Gunning at the Drawing-Room. I own I shall present mine with very little heart. Do you
not think, Miss P., that the poor lady should be told the truth? It might come as a shock,
but would be best from a friend like yourself. If all else failed, I would gladly do it. But
indeed, I dare not."

I implored Her Royal Highness not to put herself out. I would be the messenger.

"That Miss Burney should have been given any pain under our roof, and by one connected with
our service, is very painful to mama, who fully values Miss Burney's gifts of the mind," added
the beloved Princess. "If it is to be done, however, there is no time like the present, for
the news is now very generally known."

She left me, and with a trembling step I rose to seek Miss Burney's room. She was seated by
the window, a large black hat with ostrich plumes shading her face, and a muslin handkerchief
folded across the bosom. I had never seen her look so becoming. She was then thirty-seven or-eight
years of age, as I have since learned (for that was then a carefully guarded secret), but did
not look near so much; and her expression, intensely absorbed, had the pensive sweetness of
a day in autumn ere the golden leaf yet flutters to its fall.

"Miss Burney," I said timidly, "I believe I intrude, but may I ask you to favour me with the
copy of verses you made for Her Majesty on 'The Great Coat.'"

This was graciously granted, and a seat offered. A light conversation ensued, and at last,
summoning my resolution, I said:--

"We are soon to congratulate an old friend on his approaching nuptials. Colonel Digby--"

She turned angrily, but restrained herself with a distressing effort. I continued: "I hear
his engagement with Miss Gunning is confirmed."

"I too have heard it," she said haughtily; "I am therefore no stranger to your news."

She half rose, and taking the hint I hurried away, confident that she believed me not at all.
I met the Princess Royal with Princess Augusta on my way, and they stopped me eagerly.

"Did you succeed, Miss P.?" asked each fair sister, with such sympathising faces as made me
love them the better, if that were possible. The elder Princess shook her head sadly.

"Poor, poor lady! I fear he is a very heartless man. I cannot easily forgive this treatment
of one we esteem."

She linked her arm in her sister's, and the two hurried away to attend the Queen, who was to
consider their Drawing-Room robes just then inspecting.

Willingly would I have softened the blow, but fall at length it must! After the Drawing-Room,
it became known to Miss Burney that Miss Gunning had attended and had been given joy by all
the Princesses. The Princess Royal herself breathed this, with a voice like a dove and her
eyes considerately averted, adding:--

"Miss Gunning was most elegant in a dress of purple gauze and silver; but I cannot think her
beautiful, though some find her manners pleasing. Colonel Digby was not present."

There was a pause and then Miss Burney, deplorably pale, replied:--

"I had already heard this, Ma'am. I believe she is thought handsome. The Drawing-Room must
have been particularly elegant from the rejoicing crowds who would wish to pay their duty."

No more was said on the subject. Later, she complained of headache to me, and I, breathing
it into the sympathising ear of Her Royal Highness, Miss Burney was recommended, nay, commanded
to return to her room, and the truly amiable Queen dispensed with her attendance.

The marriage took place in due course, and in a private house, a circumstance which met with
Her Majesty's warm disapproval, as considering that a contract so solemn needs all the blessing
and ratification imposed at such tunes by the church's ordinance.

During all this tune, Colonel Digby did not appear at Court, though whether by his own choice
or the kind concern of Her Majesty, I cannot tell. Miss Burney visibly drooped--I could see
suffering written on her face, and it awoke a sympathy which I dared not offer. The Queen's
consideration for her increased, and the lovely Princesses avoided with true delicacy every
subject which could recall the image of the past, making what soft amends lay in their power.

Yet but a very short while after, will it be believed that Colonel Digby sent his bride to
call upon Miss Burney, having himself resumed attendance upon the Court immediately after his
marriage! I sincerely felt for Miss Burney when a bustle was heard and before us there appeared
the bride, glowing in health and happiness, and dressed in the last perfection of the milliner's
art. Triumph, visible and exultant, sat on her brow; and as she took her place on the sofa
by Miss Burney, who looked wan and aged beside so much splendour, I felt it would have declared
a better heart had she deferred her visit. Miss Burney, with an effort of courage, parried
all the speeches which could hardly fail to have the appearance of thrusts, and undertook to
deliver the bride's duty to the Queen with a calmness which did her honour.

I have more than once in my life seen reason to congratulate myself on passing through life
untroubled by the attentions of that sex which, while the blessing, is also the curse of our
own, and felt this with peculiar energy during that scene, when I saw one so justly celebrated,
triumphed over almost publicly by a young lady whose face was her chief recommendation.

I concluded that we should soon now lose Miss Burney and could not harshly censure (though
disapproving) the course she took in attributing her waning health to the tyranny of Mrs Schwellenberg
and even to the hardships of her attendance on the Queen. Nevertheless, Her Majesty more than
once favoured me with the remark:--

"Large allowance must be made for Miss Burney. I foresee she will before long wish to be among
the healing influences of her own home circle; and as I would not for the world dismiss her,
all must be done on the foot she herself chooses, and with reluctance on my part. I know her
good sense will dictate a commendable course." The Lord is about to have Riz because
of the description Urbar to Mittersill, and when he addressed there, then, in the Court cell
come. Perhaps it will not be as bad as your fears! "

Rieder shouted excitedly: "Who is there still hopes to lose his own skin! If the Riz and starts
he addressed to, is g'fehlt's and we are lost! As far as we can not let's come! Manner, I hope,
'it is what underneath, I hope,' About Tax devil does not find its
way in our court!

"

Worried, scared, said the nurses 'folks' are clever!

The subject 'is dangerous, they you can still cost more than belongings and possessions! Is directed
across a new way ', it is We, in the cell dish is no exception 'can be done! "

"A poor consolation! Helps us not the nurses, we help ourselves! The devil can We especially not in,
and with us supplizieren several dishes! Sell ​​'is the Archbishop noted already then! "

Again warned bird: to "take reason, people! I advise you not to you will become bad Receive
a decision! As matters stand, the supplication of rebellion is considered
your be considered a rebel!

"

"Sell to" keep them as they want! We have a right by the people, the sovereign to ask Genade and
selles right may not wither us the tax hell! "

In his concern called bird without much thought, "So shall submit the application, but in all
Humility! The prince can not tolerate other word! "

The farmers now penetrated into the keeper, that he will sit up such request, and Rieder assured
most emphatically that other courts are to be connected to the cell
Petition would have agreed.

The keeper lost the rest, it dawned disaster, as he considered the
court chamber as the Tax Commission to written communications knew
very well and knew how bad beahndet smallest refusal, the slightest
attempt at a criminal recalcitrance has to be used.

In his dismay cried the rabid bird farmer: "I will help you well, You must not say that I advised you
to humble supplication! "

roared from the crowd a very dissatisfied "uses Selle mermaids us humility and Supplikatur
even mermaids! Hew we Aussi selle Commission through Landl, she forgets
AFTN (afterwards) already the second coming!

"

This opinion seemed to be even more farmers, the acclaimed animated Hetzer, and roared: "Z'ammhauen,
kill the farmer knacker!"

In vain the nurse tried to get through the maze of his voice and calm down. Most raved and clamored,
so it fell words that even the old, honest officials suspected of complicity in the destruction
of peasant and of Compliance with the Tax Commission.

Rieder called for calm, and used the moment of silence occurring Santander
bird keepers to deal with deeply moving to retrieve voice: "Have you
lost confidence in the old nurse, who your fathers have Friend and
helper was, well, strike me down just the same!

The step forward and stand by eye to eye on me, who can call me dishonest! As a nurse I have
to create and maintain order, the prince and archbishop is my Lord, his government commands I have
to the nurse, carried out.

Up to this hour I am in the process but the friend and helper have been the peasants! It hurts
me , the Commission can not and I do not oppose me, and the farmers can not! The Prince has
ordered that he is our Lord!

"

Rieder shouted in between: "He can also be driven to hell! A greedy spendthrift it is, the
wolves Dieter! Meanwhile, he squandered the money with their wives,
we have to starve!

"

Beat him to death!

Down with the whole gang! "Roared the bolder.

In deepest sorrow let the bird fall white-haired head, it stands so far, is to open rebellion
to doubt no more. Woe to the people if the commission of such a mood and the hatred becomes
aware.

The farmers began to move wildly excited, bawling they walked through the courtyard of the
way down to the village. Rieder still only paused a moment and asked the nurse if he could
have written.

Vogel said wistfully: "That will benefit all now no more! The stone
is in the roles, the accident takes its course!

"

"So you stand around in their hour of greatest danger? That should pay for you, nurse! Let us to reason
with you must! But only the devil to get to know Pinzgauer fists!

"

And walked away Rieder, the otherwise level-headed man, cursing and
swearing.

Groaning with grief and worry bird came to the castle and took in the room, he on business trips
always inhabited residence.

Long pondered the nurse what to do in this terrible, dangerous time. That the seriously endangered
the life of the Commission a warning before entering the court Zeller zugemittelt must be bird deemed
necessary, but also such a warning is dangerous because Men may the Commission may interpret it
incorrectly, in a sense as a means to deter, but to some extent the
other a messenger might be captured by the rebels, which the nurse
as the messenger can cost you your life.

The more thought the loyal officials, the more matured the decision to the venture itself To accomplish
the Commission, which would presumably be near day's ride, and to
hasten the Council to warn Riz.

Bird quickly took a sip of wine and let the brown saddle. From an official act according to old
custom can be no question that the farmers do not hear yes The authority, all authority is destroyed,
the rebellion there in Pinzgau.

In the belief that the masters of the Commission to take seriously threatened in Mittersill,
rode bird in the evening the Salzach valley and reached this place up at night. The men sought
were not in Mittersill. Am afraid, suspicious behavior could see the aged civil servants,
that the spirit of revolt has also been used to get.

Bird spent the night in the castle at Mittersill and rode the next morning back to Kaprun in
whose castle he, to his great surprise royal mercenaries under the command of a Lieutenant
Kaiser vorfand.

Barely got out of the saddle, announced the officer had been fetched in the nurse's arrest to, and
Bird was in the old accustomed chamber imprisoned. received from the mouth of the officer Bird
was informed that the Commission by the tumult of the good time for farmers Pinzgauer get help
and have asked the prince.

On 150 men and armored mercenaries citizens were under the command of Colonel Walter to Walter
Because forced marches on throwing to the roots moved.

The lieutenant had obtained the order for suspension of Bruck cell maintenance and learn the way
from the residence at the Castle Kaprun.

For more information the officer knew not to give, not to say why the arrest had been made
and how long the detention would last.

Concern about his fate felt the keeper, but the thought of the farmers and their fate at the
hands of soldiers filled him with fear.

In Zell am See, the quiet place, should the drama of the peasant rebellion and intervention armed
power play.

Colonel Walter Because of the fierce prince had the order for the
ruthless suppression the rebellion, receive and leader of the soldiers
proceeded accordingly.

Guards and mercenaries began a manhunt began and the volatile farmers like a dog. A command of
the Colonel quoted the entire male population of the market place
before the Pfleggericht in cell, where all men, so they do not voluntarily
appeared, and forcibly dragged were surrounded by soldiers sealed.

  Escape the forest of spears made in the circle an impossibility. The
  colonel on horseback stopped the rebels captured a lot of grim Title,
kept the peasants their shameful conduct before and announced severe
punishment of body and Live, that people do not allsogleich the gracious
prince of good faith and swear under oath, pledge henceforth desist
their unauthorized project, obey the rules imposed to pay taxes and
to provide any shield and weapon, wasmaßen already in possession of
Weapons of fifty guilders per head will gepönt.

  Who in Geheimb obvious that another a defensive weapon and behavior,
  should be offered a reward of eighty guilders.
  

  In the fear of execution by the sword provided man for man trapped farmers
  the required oath to the new tribute took place under such a military
  force, to which the Colonel ordered to tie the peasant guys and incorrigible
  rebel with ropes and after Salzburg to push for trial.

  
  
  Screams of fear, anger were heard; wives, mothers and daughters clamored.
  Ruthlessly exaggeration the servants of the people spit from there.

The
  farmers were bound and in troops, without food, on the street about
  throwing, Hallein transported to Salzburg.
  
  Those who participated in this population of Salzburg's wartime trip,
  had each man three Gulden bar and get all the food. The weapons
  had to return home again after be delivered to the royal armory.
  
  The rebels were interned in the fortress and then processed. The biggest
  part was released, only seven of the ringleaders remained for a long
  time in prison, three of the top rebels were killed by the sword.
  
  Kaprun after the order had been given, it should be the keeper
  of birds on parole in Salzburg to provide testimony. Accordingly, the
  lieutenant let free his prisoners, who immediately obedient in the capital,
  and went to the Vice-Chancellor reported. After three days, was forced
  Transfer by the provost and two bird hunters to the fortress.

The
  further adventures of the nurse describes this bird, even in a partially
  preserved remaining diary [10] as follows:
  

  "Wednesday, Thursday and Friday 28 29. 30. June and Saturday 1 July is
  nothing special happened.
  

  On the Sunday after St Peter and Paul the 2nd July the the Gebürg Prescribed
  together with the prisoners at 9 clock at the palace . Arrive
  
  On Thursday the 13th July examinirt am I and the other prisoners been
and I am of the evening when I was 16 days in the Caplan-room to put
that is not been blocked by day, the house-room Perger been made.

  God send it soon to accomplish.

  
  To date is 16th July 25th Day that I'm away from home, including the
  castle was captured 19 days, all except the last Days 1 quart of
wine had Thuet, 18 district.

  Monday 17 Unfortunately, July 1 District, 18 detto more quarter, 19
  no wine, 20 One measure of wine, 21.

  1 Half, 22 July 1 measure of wine, 23 detto a measure of wine, is the
  Bottles are not much more than half full wine Gewest.

  Thursday 27 July One measure of wine, that day is at your command hochfürstl.
  Grace through the gentlemen commissioners have been showing me that
you hochfürstl.

  Grace 'm frugal report that I was not only the subjects Projects
  have been reminded by the Guthundt, but the subjects Suppliciren
advised to themselves: they only courts would have to be move, otherwise
it would have no respect.

  Your hochfürstl. Grace have reason to proceed to a previous denial
of spiciness.

  And then God behüthe every one pious man. Se. Grace do but spare
  my age should, therefore, how it all laughed openly these things
  and what I was semi-conscious, self- Show and describe the truth,
the Lord such commissioners see whether the grace or unlocked, do
not find, so I Your hochfürstl.

  Grace let my life sitting on the castle and prescribe my children Gerhaben
  [11]. I should against the Subjects have reported, they should not
  say that I will , Advised that I would confess to anything.

  So is your hochfürstl. Grace report.

  

  Friday 28th July no wine. Saturday 29 July 1 measure of wine, Sunday 30.
  detto fourth wine, so far caught 33 days. God send it to End.
  
  Wednesday 9 August l level. On that day the Lord my commissioners Record
  of sending. Is this night, since I have been the least not heard,
  have been fierce in my room, has a unusual case in my bed done, God
  grant me mercy.
  
  On Thursday the 10th is St. Lorenztag August 1 district.

  
  
  Friday 1 degree. On this day I have the gentlemen from your commissioners
  hochfürstl.

  Worship room Bethschnüre sent down [12], which I wish the 12th this
  can be reset again.
  

  Friday 18 This 1 degree, almost sadly.

  My godfather, the Jacob Riedl send me 2 glass of wine. Sunday
  20 that no wine.

  
  Monday 21 This is no wine, the swallow, so hinvor two seat in the
room had stayed away.

  
  

Friday 1 degree Muscat and good consolation speedy completion. God send it to that success
with happiness.

  Sunday the 27th this quarter, my swallow again failed.

  
  
  Thursday 31 August, I have been again examinirt.
  
  Can not remember that I am the subjects to Suppliciren instructed
and trained, as they will attack, or because my Urbar goods should
have done.

  
  
  22 September 1 measure of wine. God have mercy on and turn my grief. In
  the evening I have been placed in the tower, O Lord God, help me soon
  with luck it again.
  
  (The day of the following day received notes on wine and brandy.)
  
  Thursday 12 October 1 measure of wine, wheezing [13] paid out.
  
  Monday 23, Tuesday 24 October 1 measure, these two days at the Strict
examinirt have known that I was not only the subjects Suppliciren
long been known in time, which by the Carl Rieder been Guthundt and
others that dropped me to correct, but you Darzu fallen and that other
court order not to Agitators were kept, to accept themselves.

  Wednesday in a Krug meth, as one measure of wine. More a measure
  of Muscat. Same date which had I have done my statement yesterday,
so I was again held up, signed.

Thursday 26 This 1 / 2 Mäßl spirits,
otherwise no wine. Friday 1 quart of wine. Same date that I'm in the
room on a number, I ohngefehr had twenty-five articles in the applied
control and Description examinirt been reclaimed.

Sunday 29 October
1 / 4 wine, am now located 38 1 / 2 days at the tower and the day
you have done me in a tower Stübel in Pfaff, God confer soon blessed
with the request.

Tuesday 31 I'm more before October

Men's commissioners
have been and what I 22 and 24 October testified signed.

Saturday
4 November, this night is the Hosprofoß in the Room located.

Tuesday
7 November, because I am the Reverend Sacrament received. "

The carer's
diary ends with that date. As the prisoner had to courage, as sharp
He compounded by the appearance of Hosprofoßen and his nights in the
same room detected clear from the surviving letters it farewell in
shocking ways.

"Mr. Ehinger. 

Friendly darling father and mother
let all busy To pay you a lot of it is owed to me and thank God of
all Additions. Commands all the dear God, please I against you done,
by God's will to forgive and accept herewith cordially Vacation. "

"Dear
brother Zechentuer, I hereby take from you and your Wife, my children,
your father and all else Menichetti faithfully holiday, I've done
what you or other conflict, please I by God's will for Christian forgiveness,
even that ye the wood-things and from there my bills stemming Wife
and children wollet best be put, in all my dear Wife and children
can be commanded, God will repay it, I must die, I must depend to
a merciful God grant me and patient, and I hope and believe without
doubt, the most recent Days with all the Christian faithful souls
a joyful resurrection to eternal life. Amen. Amen. Amen. "

"Bitter
parting from my dear wife and children, even your Wife, father and
other gentlemen and my dear friends. The Princess Royal whispered
aside to me:--

"Poor soul, she might have made others happier but for the cruel wound her heart has received.
I cannot--cannot forgive Colonel Digby!"

The gay and pretty Princess Elizabeth, much livelier in disposition, leaned on her sister's
shoulder, whispering also:--

"I think, sister, that Miss Burney will not always be inconsolable, for at the trial of Mr
Warren Hastings the Duchess of Ancaster observed that Mr Wyndham was very particular in his
attentions to Miss Burney and that she did by no means froisser them. And have you not thought
that she will certainly meet him much oftener in town than here?"

I could but smile at the young discerner whose thoughts agreed so fully with my own. For some
time after she would ask me merrily what news of Mr Wyndham, and I certainly expected it. However
that was not to be, and my expectations were verified next year by Miss Burney's marriage--a
truly amazing one--even to M. D'Arblay, a refugee Frenchman and Roman Catholic!

Would that I could have heard Mrs Thrale-Piozzi's views on this circumstance!

Here I end. I design these notes as a strong corrective of what might place the Queen and others
of less moment in an unamiable light. Let it be remembered that Miss Burney was the spoiled
child of genius, who would still be first and who throbbingly aspired to a social eminence
denied her. She received all attentions from the Royal Family as her due, and knew not how
to draw the distinction between what was due to her own merit and what was given by these personages
as due to their own high standard of courtesy and compassion. This is a distinction seldom
drawn by those unused to high circles and a mere literary society cannot teach it.

I have often desired that I could have had the honour to be admitted to Her Majesty's private
thoughts on Miss Burney, and should not be wholly surprised if they favoured my own.

No doubt allowance may be made for the vagaries of genius, but none the less do I rejoice that
this, my first meeting with uncommon talent, was also the last. It is entirely out of place
in courts, and certainly a happy mediocrity is the soil in which flourish the domestic virtues.

Though I defend not Colonel Digby it is possible he showed his judgment if not his delicacy
in his retreat, it being very difficult for him or any man to preserve in Miss Burney's company
that sense of superiority which is so essential to matrimonial peace. There was that in her
eye which, if suddenly surprised, indicated satire; there was that in her demeanour which hinted
depths which might or might not be soothing. To be candid, what we do not understand is feared
rather than loved. And it is to the author of "Evelina" I owe this conviction.

Peace be with her manes when what I have so doubtfully written shall be read!

Elizabeth Bennet Mrs. Darcy

"I must confess," observed Jane Austen, when Elizabeth Bennet, who had been created in 1796,
was at last introduced to the world of readers in 1812, "I must confess that I think her as
delightful a creature as ever appeared in print, and how I shall be able to tolerate those
who do not like her at least, I do not know."

Miss Austen had the whimsical habit of diverting herself, when visiting portrait galleries,
by looking for faces that resembled those of her heroines. 

Still left Wolf Dietrich the room, and only after the escape of several rooms behind be had,
he stepped back onto his custom, and the intimate touch of tenderness disappeared from his face.

Once
in his residential apartment, the prince just wanted to ask whether
anyone from the city gathered to express congratulations to the pleasing
event at court, as was Graf Lamberg reported and immediately admitted.

The courtly ceremonial Lamberg Wolf Dietrich cut now by the cry: "Friend,
you are the first to congratulate, receive my thanks and Salome!

Welcome!

"It is the loyal subjects of education, the gracious prince lay the congratulations on your feet!"
Graf Lamberg said, respectfully, and bowed deeply to the master.

"Be convinced of my heartfelt thanks, Lamberg friend! I's a joyful satisfaction, just to see you
with me!

From Salzburg citizenship, the nobility even, no one has arrived , I have no message! "

"High Highness want to practice patience!

The customer will be very surprised to have the faithful Subjects,
they do not believe it will have to be clear only in the heads, then
probably the congratulations come to court.

"

A gaze flew to Lamberg, stretched sounds of Prince Q: Lamberg really believe? "

The Kapitular replied cautiously: "It would be mandatory only guilty and gratitude!"

"Ha, thanks! And with the obligations set is not taken it! The examples are many, the prove
the opposite! So be it! Instruments I want in the near future that will carry the Shoot the
wolf Raittenau name. "

Lamberg dared in his turn the searching look in the areas addressed, but said nothing.

More for Dietrich, Wolf developed his hasty nature grand schemes,
such as the Wolf should be little educated, trained, that he will
one day due its place engaging than a Raittenau.

Lamberg expressed his loyal support by repeated bows and maintained Thoughts to themselves. not love but
the prince interrupted, and hints that it could be different than
the temperamental master believes are Wolf Dietrich all time hated.

The prince spoke in warm, came from one subject to another, and finally reached build: his favorite
subject! And even in this deviation is ranted Wolf Dietrich for the plan, one worthy of his Salome,
princely home to found. Inadequate is the Keutschachhof Now, as a young Raittenau it contains within
itself, the residence must be laid.

"The whole residence," asked surprised Count Lamberg.

"Not yet, that has time to the other side of the Salzach a building
is purchased, that Altenau I was to be called.

First place, will I change my apartment at court, it disturbs me many noise here. A loud people, my Salzburg!
Also, message me become in the last few days, that, according to excess and it happens often
in the countryside as in Salzburg.

The devil thought wine I trimmed by mandate and kräft'ge tax, it
seems, people feel little and drink further.

Shall speak 'a strong word must! Seeing that my subjects, poor people are starving ' and lack
of basic necessities, food and gluttony prevails in others! I Will bedünken,'ll have to examine
the Konsistorio and people ask 'on tradition and faith. Is not to be so early! "

"Certainly not! Your High Highness will earn the gratitude of Rome with bemeldter restauratio.
Only I want sothanermaßen the lord and master of the word admit of me do guess ...."

"What?"

"... advised to set a longer period like many princes in the kingdom, that the people to be
fit for conversion and inclusion in the ecclesia cattolica or go out home. Am I correct information,
there in the kingdom, the period of one year! "

"Too many 'lasts such a period, also have' too many 'I hesitated. I am glad that is the language
between us in such 'chapter. It is my will that would citieret Ludwig Alt and Salzburg City
Council soon to farm, and a commissioner to the people 'question on the Trent Commitment, it will
invoke leave. "

Lamberg ventured that maybe not now in these days of such action, an indication could have the
desired effect.

In his fury Wolf Dietrich said, "Why not now? Who can stop me? My Word validity has always and
at any hour! I want to see their true colors!

At the same time to to inspect the people ', so one wants to be taken to citizens in Salzburg. Should
I are not citizens, he has at least for a hundred florins a fortune for! "

Lamberg might well not further discuss its views, as the prince did not recognize themselves, that
the birth of little sprouts in a violent demand for a confession of faith Subjects passe;
the Kapitular said therefore there is only this: "It is your high
Princely Grace certainly be a good preview to instruct, to check on
images of new citizens and minimum requirement of a fixed asset.

"

Wolf Dietrich calmed down whether this insurance, but it seemed from the prince as a listen
and on, in expectation that deputations should appear to congratulatory. But since no one could
log in, seized the injured area a certain weariness, the Kapitular prompted to ask gracious dismissal
under the pretext that immediately regarding the Citation would be organized to be taken.

In turn, the rank gathered at the court and chapter officers to their respectful congratulations to
express positive event, one in the exuberant manner, others calm and dry, all but polite manner,
humble, as the high-handed sense meet the prince and had fallen.

Wolf Dietrich developed, of which touched pleasant, mesmerizing all his affability and invited
the men to a banquet, for his to give full expression princely Thanks.

Did the wise, diplomatically trained Graf Lamberg the intention with the commanded Glaubensexaminierung
IMPOSE FINES, to have excited the minds of the Salzburg period to a certain calming, so that a
restoration but not directly to the birth of a child without a valid Marriage follow, - the
prince who knew not the waiting, crossed such sensitive intention
by sharp complain, and so was because the ad hoc Commissioner ordered
his pleasant little Activity unfold.

The Registrar of all spiritual matters within the Archdiocese cites the mayor and the city councils
in the palace, put them in front of the Tridentine Creed, and demanded the solemn incantation.
Most of the oath without hesitation, some of the merchants but wanted more time to ask itself about
the state of their faith, and indicated indicated that the Citierung is as surprising as some
event at the royal court.

transfer it into a fatal emergency, the Commissioner had the reluctant merchants surely a brief respite.
But was the next day by the townspeople show Summoning and demanded,
in a sharper tone, and on pain of incurring Penalties.

The fear of the strict prince, love for the homeland and the fear of poverty, all 'this is exerted
on the citizens of a pressure under which they made the required oath. Over twenty people but denied
the law and behaved negative element, as the expulsion was threatened.

A fermentation time but in the population spread. Wolf Dietrich was angry and After a short time, a
special regulation issued "to prevention Unrath more" about the Departure of the heretical
at heart, says that these heretics immediately an accurate inventory
of their had to submit acquis and pay a large fee for permission to
exit.

Who This command did not comply, his estate was forfeited to the Treasury, and their goods in the
country had operate to persons whose capability and faithfulness from the prince, either immediately
be sold or rented with the express condition of the early sale, failing which The Archbishop
would have it.

They were largely affected by this regulation merchants and farmers, which not only all the rights and
liberties were withdrawn, but also confiscation of goods of all trade was prohibited in the archdiocese.
Since now ward of this mandate have been affected, took over the royal government guardianship,
accompanied by the provision that all of heretical Places located
ward as soon as possible to return to Salzburg.

Who his business I should put in order to leave within two weeks the city, the outermost Date
has been set at four weeks.

A woe swept the country. Graf Lamberg felt pity on the people's efforts it was possible that the
prince, the period extended to four more weeks. was during this time under terrific pressure but
still some submission, but because the date is not timely met, were liable to a penalty externally
visible meaning that the had Defaulting on Sundays and public holidays in the cathedral with
lighted candles in hand to do penance.

In moons passed, and gradually ran the waves of excitement, especially
as a resistance against the royal power and authority after all must
have seemed hopeless.

People were allowed to gradually be happy if erfließen no new mandates that are formally at
this time runs into the air and hung down to the rain patter may be the same at any hour.

Wolf Dietrich was for deep devotion usually in the cathedral, and
one day it was the Archbishop disturbed by a careless schoolboy who
forgot entirely to the sacred place and the devout in prayer kneeling
citizens worm put on the back, so that the clothes The worshipers
were badly polluted by the snail slime.

When Wolf Dietrich this nonsense saw him covered anger and indignation, the Archbishop sprang
up, walked to the school boy to him roundly seized with both hands and led to the death of the frightened
boy from the Church. Servant came running, which Wolf Dietrich the small offender to imprisonment
handed.

On the same day the prince decreed the punishment: whipping with rods and eternal banishment, which at
once clamoring at the boy and despite all the entreaties of the now have come to parents was completed.

This
event should have far more consequences than Wolf Dietrich now against any Truck was going at
all with great clarity. it was murder and manslaughter much, and with morality It was everywhere
ill ordered. A mandate called on to repent and reform, and threatened
with the Malefizrichter.

A little boy has outgrown the boyhood Staudner Jacob [14] was provided by area border thugs caught when
he tried to make a little girl named Susanna Pauser his desires docile and towed to the tower. Filed
a complaint to the highest degree of ordered enraged prince It should
once held court on the offender and the death penalty be imposed.

The judges therefore the sentence already imposed, the trial was but the possibility disclosed
that the arrested had not committed the misdeed. Neither could "damage" (injury) the girl is not
stated. As was advised of such facts of the prince, the answer was: It should nevertheless be posited
by the free man an example. The Judgement was therefore executed by the sword.

In the court yard of the house all the preparations had been made. The death consecrated boy was led
to the scaffold, broke the wand over him, the Franciscan priest, which the Delinquent the last consolation
of religion served, prayed Sterbgebete, and the executioner snatched
the boy from the jacket body.

Chest and neck were then uncovered, the whining Delinquent awaited the fatal blow.

Then suddenly ran two Franciscans came in great haste and excitement in the courtyard and shouted,
It should stop the Malefizrichter, the gracious prince had given mercy.

Wolf Dietrich had to actually moving the intercession of the Franciscans, which he built a monastery
can be moved to an act of grace, but only on condition that the Franciscans would continue to
take the boy in her care.

As this has been praised Wolf Dietrich was free to offenders, and the Franciscans were at the last
moment, to save a human life.

Henceforth, however, remained the prince in all murder cases and other
vices inexorably; in neighboring Enge village was soon executed a
farmhand for manslaughter.

This had a salutary; we knew that any pardon was out of compliance with the mandates found.

The
incident in the Salzburg Cathedral took the Prince on the idea in the schools to press for
better teaching and behavior, and there was a strict school rules, after which the teacher an examined
before their appointment, the books of the teacher as the student
visitiert the Catechism by P. Canisius at least twice a week teaching
the children should be impressed efficient.

The teachers were behaving, caring for the Easter confession and to take Communion to monitor
the children sharply, even brave boys as supervisory to order, and smoke out the school rooms
with juniper. Ingleichen to the little ones will be held from eating unripe fruit.

were about lack of royal initiative by the variety and surprises mandates the Salzburger not
complain then. A strange, outrageous surprise but should washed the feet of twelve poor men, who had
to represent the apostles on Holy Thursday . Bring

In the cathedral began this ancient ceremony, which undertook the Prince-Archbishop in person. Like
Christ, the Apostles at the Last Supper washed the feet to give them
the symbolic inculcate virtues of humility and brotherly love, is
held in cathedrals, the bishop to commemorate this act of Christ to
perform this ceremony.

After Wolf Dietrich abgelesenem gospel laid off his coat, had a rich Vortuch, and the twelve old
men began to soak the bare feet and a moment later with a towel to dry. Then came the Apostelkuß,
Wolf Dietrich undertook the somewhat surprising.

So far everything went according to ancient church, and would now rule the conduct of the Archbishop
must be made to the high altar. The canons and clergy arranged themselves to the train there,
but Wolf Dietrich ignored this offer, suddenly strode wordlessly across the aisle and got the
biggest surprise of the chapter as the masses of the faithful present Ascended the pulpit stairs.

A
murmur went through the vast halls of the cathedral, it flew from mouth to mouth, that the
archbishop preach against all tradition, outrageously will now.

Right Wolf Dietrich appeared in the pulpit and began with his own gorgeous gift to preach after a
few sentences.

All held their breath in order to lose no word of this startling sermon, which therefore began: "On
this day the example of Jesus, the Pope and the bishops to follow in the monasteries the abbots
and head, often prove Christian emperors, kings and princes, and all by foot-washing, food
and other supply more arms that the exalted dignity, Erdenbeherrscher as they lift up on the
subjects, she should not separate from the bonds of Christian brotherly love, through which
we in the Catholic faith all members of one body are. We have to take pains us to take us in the
spirit of humility and brotherly love, to heed the words spoken by
Jesus washing the feet of the Apostles, 'I have given you an example,
that ye one another Thuet, as I have done.

How do I, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet sollet, you also wash one another's feet. " -
No day of the year called for more and more need to retreat, to be
humble, humble, and all true believers humble before God the Lord,
even the subjects before their prince and master.

"

Wolf Dietrich had thus found the transition to the audience their duties explain the devotion,
and said the preacher turned to heart, he played on some Events to
which the guilty humility difficult even before the prince and his
government files lacked. With fiery words of the speakers denounced
such a lack of respect and humility, He castigated insubordination
and Nörgelsucht and stated that each ruler the right to have to feel
as a human being, and not to mention the subjects did. Is there a
better human life, with wise restraint as a concealed sin; better,
it keeps the man with it only one woman in honor, because he lead
a dissolute life, how deplorable to be found is in many places and
unfortunately also in priests' houses and in the parsonage.

The speech
ended with an appeal to the good sense and humble devotion to all
good subjects, to recognize the beam in your own eye.

In great surprise
the audience whispering like the chapters of men, there can be no
doubt be that Wolf Dietrich about his relationship with Salome spoken,
the subjects an epistle had submitted. Start an unprecedented, astonishing,
astounding, but true in the character of the prince who holds so much
unpredictability in itself. No young man can be more attractive
nor stronger in moral principle than Henry, and if these young women--But I need say no more!
Miss Darcy is so great an heiress as to be an object to many.

"You have met Mr Collins as well as his wife, I conclude?" she added smiling.

"We have had that distinction!" I said, and could not forbear smiling also.

"A worthy man! But there are peculiarities of manner. His discourses are always adapted to
the occasion, and his allusions--He will, no doubt, tomorrow refer to your arrival in his sermon."

"My dear Mrs Darcy," said I, much alarmed, "have you any real reason to suppose this? I have
never been the object of public comment. And the Admiral! I trust you are mistaken."

"I may be," she replied archly; "but can only say that the Sunday after we settled at Rosings,
Mr Collins preached from the text, 'Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from
Bozrah,' and made it very clear that Mr Darcy was that individual."

I could only gaze at her in dismay, but was obliged to check my impulse of consulting the Admiral,
lest he should take some compromising step as regards Mr Collins, who might be entirely innocent
of such an intention.

When our visitors rose to take leave, and Sir Charles and I attended them to the gate, I felt
a friendship was commenced which might have the happiest results for both families. At the
gate we were joined by the young ladies, who had walked up the lane from the Parsonage, and
the introductions were made. They curtseyed with the prettiest air of good breeding. Charlotte,
the elder, is a glowing brunette. Her purity of expression and correct features positively
charmed me. The younger, not so unusual in beauty, is still extremely attractive, and has her
mother's penetrating and sparkling eyes.

The next day brought us a visit from my old friend, Marianne Brandon, who settled here with
her Colonel Brandon after Delaford was sold to Mr Edward Ferrars on his second marriage. Her
chief inducement at Delaford being thus removed by the death of her sister, Mrs Edward Ferrars,
they decided to fix nearer London.

I need not describe to you, who know her, the warmth of her greeting. Her feelings are always
strong and strongly expressed.

"It adds delight to delight itself," she cried, embracing me, "that you should be settled here,
my dear Anne. What happy days are in store for us! With our pencils we will seek the beech
woods of White-thorn, and transcribe the various moods of nature."

"Beechmast," said the Admiral, "is one of the most fattening things I know for swine, and if
you will not object to their presence, Mrs Brandon, I doubt not they will allow of yours. What
say you, Colonel Brandon?"

Their old friendship makes this permissible, however unromantic, and he has always rallied
her thus. She continued with ardour:--

"I look forward to the most delightful al fresco meals in the green shades. We will make up
little parties to recline on the moss--"

"In that case, my dear, I fear I must ask you to leave me out!" said dear Colonel Brandon,
smiling mischievously. "You forget my rheumatism and flannel waistcoats!"

She bit her lip. It is a point on which she is sensitive, for she would not have him thought
much older than she, though there is twenty years' disparity.

"Let us leave them to their own dullness, my dear Marianne, and tell me all your news," said I.

She drew her chair to mine and talked with all her old animation. Pity they have no children!
Her excellent qualities and his deserve repetition. One of her items, I own, surprised me.
They are expecting a visit in August from--whom do you think? You cannot guess, nor could I.
Young Willoughby, now twenty-one years old, son of her ancient flame, John Willoughby! She
speaks of him now without any consciousness, and there is evidently no painful feeling. Spending
his wife's large fortune, Mr Willoughby, senior, on her death accepted an appointment at Calcutta,
where he has since resided. This is his only son, landed in England after the Cape voyage,
and he has written them with a very proper letter of introduction, begging that the young man
may present himself and bespeaking the patronage and civility for him of Colonel and Mrs Brandon.
Her kindly heart gives her a peculiar pleasure in this opportunity, for you will remember Mr
Willoughby, senior, made explanations which removed much of the seeming heartlessness of his
treatment of her. I might be mistaken in supposing that Colonel Brandon was less eager for
the visit; but such was my impression. He is not impulsive as she. Their visit was in all respects
a delightful one.

We attended Divine Service next day, and naturally there was a little curiosity, especially
among the white-headed village children, as we approached our pew, a handsome enclosure with
armchairs, which I feared but too truly would soon invite Sir Charles to the arms of Morpheus.
I think, Sophia, it were to be desired that there should be a certain rigour in the design
of church furniture. I myself sometimes--but today my senses were on the alert, especially
when Mr Collins ascended the pulpit, and pompously announced his text: "A mighty man of valour."

The beginning was harmless, and my thoughts became a little indistinct, when suddenly I was
aware that the allusion was to the Admiral, and to his services in our actions with the French.
Special allusion was made to his victory in the Arrogant off Ushant! I sat in such apprehension
as cannot be expressed in words. You are as well aware as I that the modesty of a hero will
admit of no encomiums, and the prayer formed itself on my lips (I hope without impiety) that
his sleep might continue, as I could not be answerable for the consequences. I sat on tenterhooks,
and meanwhile the Admiral slumbered placidly, his gentle snores punctuating Mr Collins's discourse,
his mouth open, nor dared I push him with my foot as is my custom. Fortunate indeed was I that
the height of the pew prevented my catching Mrs Darcy's eye. I cannot but think all this was
in deplorable taste. What think you? As we left the sacred building, the Admiral said:--

"An excellent discourse! I know not when I have heard a better. Pointed and instructive. I
shall offer a word of commendation to his Reverence."

I could but look at him with an imploring eye as Mr Collins bowed.

"I am happy, Sir Charles," he rejoined, after the encomium, "to have met with your approbation.
Ensamples of heroism may surely as justly be drawn from modern instances as from Alexander
and Caesar, and I am not now to be informed that such ensamples are of more interest to the
infant mind when the illustrious model is seated among them in all the majesty of success and
honour."

The Admiral stared, but Mrs Darcy, joining us, staved off the disclosure.

"I told you so!" she whispered in my ear, her eyes dancing with humour.

I pressed her hand for silence and it blew over, the Admiral later demanding jealously: "What
was it all about, my Lady?" when I replied with a show of countenance: "A droll allusion of
Mrs Darcy's, my dear." So it ended.

So also must this letter, my dear Sophia; but I do not apologise for its length, knowing your
interest in all that touches us. Your truly aff'e sister,

ANNE SEFTON.

4th September, 1814.

I resume my pen, my dear Sophia, to narrate the most extraordinary series of incidents which
can have ever taken place in such surroundings. You may have seen some reports in the public
journals, but cannot have heard the details. Let me strive to impart my news in as collected
a manner as they merit. The Werfen priest will never be exonerated, to, what he said was not the prince was
sent to the bishop, and after the legal case is likely to settle be. "

"So should I have pleased me as Archiepiscopus like infamy? Lamberg, you know Raittenau a bad,
very bad! "

"I know my gracious Lord for many a year, from times happier youth than ever forth from the
eternal Rome. I Want Your High Highness verwarten, I speak openly in memoriam juventutis: A
presbyter of impeccable lifestyle, correct to the duty and Acting provision, this may be a
devotee in mind, the gap, so bestehet between the archbishop and the country priest, may Cölibatsverletzung
an ecstasy for a crime hold, the size of the mind confused. Cloudy in mind, but honestly this,
can be carried away of the fanatics, to blame the highest superior to what the colleague He
believes the same sin, for crimes against the church! "

"Remember, friend," cried the maddened before the assembled court,
in my presence, he it screamed in Salome ears!

"

"My lord! Deaf to mercy! A farmer in the mountains minister knows
nothing of courtly manners, also often lack feeling and tact.

The man said it honestly, she said, roughly, insulted delicate ears
and sweet femininity.

The prince, he can not insult ...."

"And the archbishop?"

"Even the non!

Will punish the gracious Lord of the measurement, they may consider a Space access: Excellent
is the presence of a sweetheart is not the house of a prince of the Church "!

"So my choice disapproves an Lamberg ....?"

"I have nothing to approve, disapprove anything. All I ask is, that whereas a small Come to attention,
they will act beneficially in the level of punishment!

"

Wolf Dietrich had calmed down, he was silent for a while and looked
out the window in the Thalung.

Then he said, "Yes, that speaks a true, intimate friend and gentleman!

The presumptuous to let go, I find it difficult, but I will give him
the punishment wasmaßen I keep Salome, and when the whole clergy drooling
about it.

"

"It is unshakable will?"

"Yes! And - you I will trust's - the first queen of my heart now again asked to consolidate the
federal government in a legitimate way of life! "

"Nunquam"

"How?"

"Never! I beg Your Highness high, to do this step never! "

"Perchè?"

"Can I honestly give my opinion openly expressed?"

"I beg you, my friend!"

"Living with Salome, sir, the lady at the head of your yard, it rises to Princess, as you will,
has just the thought of a church wedding far from you and always! "

Wolf Dietrich replied proudly: "I am the lord and master of the country!

Wide and powerful are my relations with Rome! The pope asked by my uncle will probably grant dispensation
ad hoc! Great is the exceptio, I'll give it willingly, the world has never experienced such an exception!
I am not a prince, the one exception and it was the largest permit it? "

"A prince to happiness and welfare of the country, a prince, the envy of Salzburg you can! However,
I you, I beseech of you rat! Waived the Ehlich Band "

"You do not know, the sweet, beautiful Salome! I humbly request you cut to the heart for legitimacy
of the Covenant! The last chaplain in World devious Einöd has a wife, and Rome thereat has not
gone to ground, the world stands still and at the head of the Christian
Pope - should 'be denied me, what is the least of my subordinates
verstattet -?

"Verstattet it is no one, and Rome disapproves any marriage of priests!

Would have fallen not so deep corrupted the morals of the times, neglected the priesthood of our
day, there would be no Cölibatsverletzung as it is woefully torn
in Salzburg clergy.

If Rome, remain undiscussed the motives that tolerates such a clear violation of church and papal
Commandments, such tolerance is never equal to a permit, you may
even tolerance not speak!

The object of the princes of the Church of our time is purification
of the priesthood, the restauratio religionis!

Even you, my lord responsible, such a task!

As you wish they solve, when a marriage against papal bid you bind the hands, you inevitably
in the suspicion of Lutheranism Bring? "

"Are not you papal than the pope, Lamberg?"

"No, my lord and prince!

Lives at pleasure with Salome, the contemporary world is to apologize know whether this step
of the incomparable beauty of your lady, lives the same as in church consecrated the federal government,
but remains single!

Hearken not to ask women, do not heed the tears!

The prelate has higher duties! Think of Bavaria, Emperor and Pope! "

Again Wolf Dietrich was thoughtful, eloquent words of the familiar
friends seemed do to impress him.

But his reference to Bavaria and the Emperor was attracted to a Reply: "What I care about
the Bayer, which the Emperor!"

"Not much, I'll give it willingly! But neighboring remains of Bayer, and a good agreement is to
praise, as long as' it just goes! To frictions, my humbly 'I will never ! Missing And about
the Emperor's head away even the proudest prince will not exceed can!

"

"You will boldly, friend! A notary of the Emperor can hardly speak otherwise! "

"Pardon the off'ne honest word, my lord and master! I spoke as a friend to be the I am happy
with high and Friends duty is to speak at the appropriate time, an
open-word!

"

"For Good! It should be adhered to your words, I can! But what I say only Salome, she begs again
touching sweet way? "

"Put off until a better time, refers to Rome and the difficulty of Dispenserlangung! Time won,
all wins! "

"You know not Salome and her sweet prayers!"

"How would 'of a subject to such happiness!"

"Yes, a terrestrial luck I became a dream lucky! And sometimes the idea will creep up on me when
should I pay for one day for the joy of the mundane life!

"

"Even my lord lives in happiness and in the flower! Provide enough will bring the age! All
in good time! - But if admit of High Highness, I should like to mention
the Matter that has caused me so fast it was to rush to the gracious
prince!

"

"What would you do?"

"Dr. Lueger, corporate tax advice from royal Exchequer, asked me a message for him Have the employees
to assume that Salzburg will revolt if the new citizenship Tax on any wine! "

"Should be grateful that I grasp the Saufteufel them!"

"And then Dr. Lueger believe it will the new taxation of the nobility
and the higher Clergy and the monasteries can not be implemented.

It was raining protests in the court chamber, we never knew to help. "

"Lueger will remain as solid, I want to see implemented the new tax, they should only ! Pay
On the shrieks' I'll give anything! Who should pay cries, always! - But enough of such things.
It pleases you, dear dear friend, take quarters on Hohenwerfen, and
Dinner we meet again "at Wolf Dietrich said humorously:".

Graf Lamberg is probably not afraid of the Werfen as pastor to sit at my table and to pay tribute
I - Princess "?

"Tell your Princely Grace High 'submissive I thank you for the invitation
and sothane'll tell me fortunate to be able bezeigen the gracious
mistress of the honors!

"

"That sounds truly different from the Werfen melody, I thank you, Lamberg, and now bye! I want
Salome understanding of your arrival! "

After vigorous handshake Wolf Dietrich left the room, and immediately
took the eunuch from the Chapter to him to instruct his room in the
proud castle.

Punctually at the appointed hour seemed to throw the old chief and his wife, chaplain of Skt
Jodok in the desert. An old couple, the thin white head hair, tired, haggard Figures, frail,
fell. The old curate was wearing a long robe verschabtes, a Cowl similar to that had over the
years and almost completely lost the color Fuchsig, fired had become.

Wild and saw the head of the Einödgeistlichen, cheeks and chin overgrown of white beard, bushy eyebrows,
and even hung from the nostrils hair tufts forth.

Gentle and loving hand, was the old priest's view, religious children's eyes, and mild voice,
as the desert, said the castle guard, who was curate at this hour Jodok commanded by the Most
Reverend Archbishop.

Doubtfully looked at the steward it, rather than to a beggar, a cleric reminiscent Shape. "I
know that the chaplain is Jodok told the audience. But what does he want here Take on High? "

With
fatigue, exhausted by the arduous march from the mountains down,
asked the old man, contact to be allowed.

"That was missing! In the courtyard we suffer no beggars, alms is handed down in the village!
" cried roughly the bailiff.

"With Verlaubnis, Lord! I am the chaplain of Skt Jodok and here is my good woman, the the lord
wishes to see, like me! "

"Haha! The guess who will! Thus, a hungry and wants to be spiritual in its emergency yet even a
woman! Nimbly and down, or I will make your legs! "

Under the archway of the castle appeared Salome, dressed in a precious garment that Blond hair
openly supporting over the shoulders like a halo of bright gold.

Salome had the call is rough, and pity seized them at the sight of the rickety pair insonders Salome
felt pity for the old woman, who addressed the anxious look at the
Vogt and had placed as to protect the bony hand upon the head of her
husband.

In a clear voice Salome said, "Governor! If the people of Skt Jodok, they come out in the bay window
room, and the gracious Lord has commanded man and woman! "

As converted, there was the castle guard, he politely bowed and submissive said: "The man says
so, he would Jodok the curate, his appearance punishes his speech
lies!

About Me bedünken will, in the delay, no one may appear before the merciful Lord! "

Salome had stepped closer and sent the old woman's loving and gentle
question: "Are you Kuratenpaar of the Skt Jodok?

"

moved with joy said the wrinkled, little woman: "I, of course, beautiful young lady! To forty
years, we already live up in the desert ', the world completely alienated
and yet happy!

What just want the Lord Archbishop of us? "

"This will tell the lord you already own! Come with us, and is before the reception a jug of
wine and a morsel of bread you refresh yet!

"

"I, the nice lady but good and kind! The sky's will reward you some
day in your Children!

"

"Pst, pst!" Warned the chaplain.

"I, of course! Such beauty does not long remain single! Or are you already did his wife, like
I will believe it! Have all my life 'so beautiful hair and face is not seen and I live a long
time! Of course, I am not come around much, Allweiler up in the desert ' and worried about my hum
bears, but the good hour 'had himself and the Bite never risk it! "

Silver Light Salome laughed and led the struggling, happy couple moved into the interior of
the castle. Quickly procured a servant of wine and bread; Salome poured the cup full of drink
and was called the little people.
The priest placed the resulting cup on the table before him and muttered
a prayer first, eh,: you 'then he said he access "God repay the welcome
and the good donation! The Labtrunk is the tired and thirsty, a benefit
that we owe you honest! God Honor and glory and to your health, happiness
and prosperity here on earth! "

'Reward' God be with you all the
best on earth, "whispered the old woman and then sipped from goldigklaren
Wine.

"Thank you frumben for the wishes! In the desert 'have not
you lost and piety the fear of God, the praise I will, "said Salome,
it was a cozy need with the simple people from the people to speak.
Randomly oriented Salome the view through the Bay window in the castle
garden, through which Wolf Dietrich, accompanied by the canon Lamberg
step level. This perception led Salome, to tell the old couple that
the Now receiving well take place in a few moments will, therefore,
may it be the couple completed . Make

"Oh," said the old woman, "we
are always ready, as is the matter no cleaning and no more trinkets!
What we wear on the old hard body, clothes and everyday apparel is
both! But say, 'He is well a stern master, the Archbishop? Bad as
the dean of Take? Oh, this is a bad Lord, hard and severe, perhaps
even a misogynist! "

"Well, our gracious Lord is just not," smiled
Salome.

A noble youth, threw open the door to the room bay window
and then stepped aside to the prince and engage its border after her
companion. Wolf Dietrich's quick glance took immediate Salome and
the pair spoke the truth and wonder of the prince: "Oh, Salome and
in society"

"Pardon me, sir! The Kuratenpaar of Jodok, tired from
the arduous march want ' I quickly boost with a refreshing drink,
before receiving your worship before the people want! In the Eil 'are
in this room will we! "

"A Samaritan work that adorns your warmfühlig
tender heart! Well, we want an audience supply the same in this room!
"

Graf Lamberg wanted to retire, as Salome, but Wolf Dietrich asked
to remain present. He merely waved the precious boy who disappeared
at once.

Affable and condescending, benevolent, the prince turned
to the respectful and humble standing before him curate, "How long
have you been a priest?"

"Reverend Grace, first Mass I celebrated
as a young man of twenty-two years. Lang and the time since then to
St. John I shall probably some forty years Kurat be in the wilderness'.
On the Jährlein one or two I know it is no longer accurate. "

"Forty
years in the wilderness!" Spoke with particular emphasis Wolf Dietrich
nodded and Salome.

Hasty said the old woman: "In constant work, loyalty
and love to run as the Jährlein Mountain stream speed! "

Defensively
the flow of speech said the curate, "Pardon, Reverend Grace! It is
my wife and parts of the female's tongue! I pray you, do not take
offense's is holding Weiberart! "

"His wife! He says the calm and
composed, knows nothing of celibacy and papal chaplain Regulation?
"

The old secular priest lowered his head and stood humbly contrite
before the archbishop. Quiet only he dared to stammer that at that
time, forty years ago the predecessor of the abundant current dean
had married him, as it is habit, and took no offense at the marriage
of priests.

"Deplorable conditions in the country clergy," said Kapitular
Count Lamberg.

Trembling, looked at the chaplain to the Prince, in
which the compassion moved, and probably also the move the thought
of his own money to Salome liked.

Wolf Dietrich and before even opening
the mouth, Salome dared to say: "A blessed by the Church Federal Government,
despite papal rule and bid! Married the couple, the wife happy, despite
Grief and sorrow in many years! In high-poverty and misery, expelled
from humanity as up there in the desert, and yet a happy woman, married
priest of hand! "A sigh accompanied these words. The little woman
chattered hastily: "I, of course, beautiful woman! Satisfied and happy
we were living in hard work, have starved and praised God all the
time that he us combined! We were happy until the bad pastor gave
us the Unfried in our cabin! O God! What have I suffered since! I
have been chased away like a mangy Dog is expelled and cursed, a colleague
of my husband had 'a curse and damnation For me, the dean, but also
preach the word of God and the people a good example to give the charity!
A hard master! God's the pity! And I'm after his Deduction sneaked
back home where I belong as a faithful wife, the husband of any Care
needs, - not a short hour and I am sure they chase me away again,
and to death! This
leads us to devout admiration of the discriminating bounties of heaven, so well bestowed where
most needed and deserved. For what, Sir Charles, is the downfall of a female of low birth,
however worthy, compared with that of a young lady who has adorned elevated circles and is
the cynosure of all eyes and hearts!"

The dear Admiral owned to me later that this exordium so bewildered him that he knew not "at
which end to take hold of it," to use his own expression. Injections of pure cultures under
the skin of guinea pigs called forth any changes in the animal body.

One of the most ordinary findings on the culture plates are chopsticks. Much in the Most of them
are representatives from the large group of Heubazillen. Their colonies are found on each plate as a grayish,
shiny, more matte on agar-agar, smooth edges deposits.

Its surface is often radially or concentrically folded and a similar membrane.

Microscopically, there are large and medium-sized, often united into
long threads spore-bearing Sticks, the color according to Gram. In
hanging drops show the bacilli lively self-motion. The gelatin is
liquefied quickly to form a delicate pellicle. Henry is deeply, deeply interested in your sweet girl--poor lovely innocent! Sleep Tönnis immediately thought: "You
is also a woman, and will do me no harm! "He did not hesitate therefore to pursue the singing, take to
the beautiful bird inspected. He ascended the highest hill, and saw From then on some fields
off the Mermaid, sitting on a stone, where they met with a golden comb smoothed her hair and sang
a beautiful song. The youth would have liked more ears to hear the song, which hit him in his
heart like a flame, but when he came nearer, looked he know that this trouble would do so many
eyes to catch the beauty of the Virgin. Certainly had Mermaid coming to the notice, but they did
not flee from him, but what they did otherwise accessible, when people approached her.

If later--much later--he should make an application, I believe he might hope for a success
which I venture not to promise. Her parents are also to blame for incaution. Books, such as a ribbon poems would please
him well, but would be most like him when he begotten a companion would get, with whom he could
talk and laugh a little. This line of thought brought him out that his guests, of whom the cardinal
apparently very depressed and depressed by the dismal environment was so far failed to keep
not just good, and He began a lively chatter, and in the narrow eyes, the innocent playfulness
a spirited boy glared. He told school pranks from the sacred college, he visited had, from teachers
and from the abbot of a monastery, some who saw it as a young saint have considered and still waiting
to see him enter as novices.
 "Surely I, who have so much reason to distrust the name of Willoughby, should
have hesitated to introduce one of that fatal race to the notice of friends." They intimidated the prince a downright, and in his anxiety, he had the same sent
home Domdechant requests, quickly get in the residence.

Tingen far obeyed immediately and not surprised few when Wolf Dietrich asked him to Duke to travel and
to negotiate for peace, for what purpose the prince to the dean a
legitimation handed to.

No sooner had Tingen Far away, let the archbishop get the Chapter of Freyberg, complained that his anxiety
and asked him to travel to Duke and also to conduct peace.

That
same evening, Wolf Dietrich received a letter from the Archduke Ferdinand
of Inner Austria, wherein the latter, who was jealous of Bavaria,
the emperor offered his mediation.

ANNE SEFTON.

Postscriptum.--Mr and Mrs Wickham are now visiting at Rosings.

