Three months passed, during which the Allens' pew was vacant at Tanner's Lane.  George remained
at home with his only child, or was at his mother's, or, shocking to relate, was in the fields,
but not at chapel; nor were any of his family there.  During the whole of these three months
one image was for ever before his eyes.  What self-accusations!  Of what injustice had he not
been guilty?  Little things, at the time unnoticed, turns of her head, smiles, the fall of
her hair--oh, that sweet sweet brown hair!--all came back to him, and were as real before him
as the garden wall.  He thought of her lying in her grave--she whom he had caressed--of what
was going on down there, under the turf, and he feared he should go mad.  Where was she?  Gone,
for ever gone--gone before he had been able to make her understand how much he really loved
her, and so send her to sleep in peace.  But was she not in heaven?  Would he not see her again?
He did not know.  Strange to say, but true, he, a member of Tanner's Lane Church, who had never
read a sceptical book in his life, was obliged to confess, perhaps not consciously, but none
the less actually, he did not know.

In those dark three months the gospel according to Tanner's Lane did nothing for him, and he
was cast forth to wrestle with his sufferings alone.  It is surely a terrible charge to bring
against a religious system, that in the conflict which has to be waged by every son of Adam
with disease, misfortune, death, the believers in it are provided with neither armour nor weapons.
Surely a real religion, handed down from century to century, ought to have accumulated a store
of consolatory truths which will be of some help to us in time of need.  If it can tell us
nothing, if we cannot face a single disaster any the better for it, and if we never dream of
turning to it when we are in distress, of what value is it?  There is one religious teacher,
however, which seldom fails those who are in health, and, at last, did not fail him.  He was
helped by no priest and by no philosophy; but Nature helped him, the beneficent Power which
heals the burn or scar and covers it with new skin.

At the end of the three months the Reverend John Broad received a brief note from Mr. Allen
announcing that their pew at the chapel could be considered vacant, and that the subscription
would be discontinued.  Within a week Mr. Broad invited Brother Bushel, Brother Wainwright
the cart-builder and blacksmith, and Brother Scotton the auctioneer, to a private meeting at
his own house.  In a short speech Mr. Broad said that he had sought a preliminary conference
with them to lay before them the relationship in which the Allens stood to the church in Tanner's
Lane.  They had formally ceased to attend his ministrations, but of course, as yet, they remained
on the church books.  It was a matter which he, as the minister of the flock, felt could not
any longer be overlooked.  He would say nothing of the part which the Allens had taken in the
late unhappy controversies which had distracted the town, excepting that he considered they
had displayed a heat and animosity inconsistent with their professions and detrimental to the
best interests of the cause.

"I agree with that, Mr. Broad," interrupted Mr. Bushel; "and I may say that, as you know, if
you had done nothing, I SHOULD; for how any member of the--gospel--could live in--and go on--peace
harmony with all men in the Church of Christ, I, at, least--that's my opinion."  Mr. Bushel
was shortnecked, and shook his head always while he was talking, apparently in order to disengage
his meaning, which consequently issued in broken fragments.

Mr. Broad resumed--"I may, however, observe that George Allen was in company with the intoxicated
mob which devastated Cowfold; and although he has asserted that he merely endeavoured to control
its excesses--and such appears to be the view taken by the civil authorities who have prosecuted
the perpetrators of the outrages--we, as members, my dear brethren, of Christ's Body, have
to be guided by other considerations.  While upon this subject of George Allen, I may say,
with as much delicacy as is permissible to a faithful minister of God's holy Word, that I fear
George has been--a--h'm--what shall I say?--at least led astray by an unhappy intimacy with
a female residing in the metropolis who is an infidel.  I have no doubt in my own mind that
the knowledge of this fact accelerated the departure of my dear daughter, whose sorrow was
of a twofold character--sorrow, in the first place, with regard to her husband's unfaithfulness,
causing her thereby much personal affliction, which, however, endureth but for a moment, for
she now inherits a far more exceeding weight of glory"--Mr. Broad's week-day and extempore
quotations from the Bible were always rather muddled--"and, in the second place, sorrow for
her husband's soul.  I think we have distinct evidence of this intimacy, which I shall be able
to produce at the proper moment.  We have all observed, too, that whilst the Allens have not
latterly attended Divine Service at Tanner's Lane, they have not seceded to another place of
worship.  Finally, and by way of conclusion, let me remark that I have wrestled long with the
Lord to know what was my duty towards these apostates and towards the Church of Christ.  I
considered at first I ought to remonstrate privately with Mr. Allen; but, alas! he has shown
a recalcitrant disposition whenever I have attempted to approach him.  I have consulted Brother
Bushel on the subject; indeed, I may say that Brother Bushel had previously intimated to me
the necessity of taking some steps in the matter, and had assured me that he could not any
longer occupy the prominent position which he now occupies in the church--so much, I may say,
to our own edification and advantage--if something were not done.  We think, therefore, that
the church should be privately convoked for deliberation.  Brother Wainwright, what counsel
have you to give?"

Brother Wainwright always had a heavy account with Brother Bushel. He was a little man, with
a little round head covered with straggling hair, which came over his forehead.  He sat with
his hat between his knees, looked into it, scratched his head, and said with a jerk, "Oi agree
with Brother Bushel."

"Brother Scotton, what do you say?"

Brother Scotton was a Cowfold man, tall and thin, superintendent of the Sunday-school, and
to a considerable extent independent of village custom.  He was not only an auctioneer, but
a land surveyor; he also valued furniture, and when there were any houses to be let, drew up
agreements, made inventories, and had even been known to prepare leases.  There was always,
therefore, a legal flavour about him, and he prided himself on his distant professional relationship
to full-blown attorneyhood.  It was tacitly understood in Cowfold that his opinion in certain
cases was at least equal to that of Mortimer, Wake, Collins & Mortimer who acted as solicitors
for half the county.  Mr. Scotton, too, represented Cowfold urban intelligence as against agricultural
rusticity; and another point in his favour was, that he had an office--no shop--with a wire
blind in the window with the words, "Scotton, Land Agent, Auctioneer, and Appraiser," painted
on it.  On Mr. Broad's present appeal for his verdict put himself in a meditative attitude,
stretched out his legs to their full length, threw his head back, took his lower lip in his
left hand, pulled up his legs again, bent forward, put his hands on his knees, and looked sideways
at Mr. Broad.

"I suppose that Mr. Allen and his son will have the charges communicated to them, Mr. Broad,
and be summoned to attend the meeting?"

