Too late to retreat now, even had he wished to. Penrun's weapon flashed first. A scream of
pain and fury answered the flash, and the man's pistol clattered down on the rock. The next
instant Penrun was helpless in the clutch of a mighty pair of arms that tried to squeeze the
life out of him.

"Burn, me, will ye, ye dirty scum!" roared the giant of a man tightening his grip. "I'll break
your damned back for ye and heave ye into the gorge!"

Penrun writhed frenziedly, trying to twist his pistol around against his enemy's back, while
they struggled desperately about the ledge above the dizzy blackness of the gorge. But the
pistol struck the wall beside the entrance and fell under their trampling feet.

Penrun was gasping in agony at the intolerable pain in his spine. Darting points of light danced
before his eyes. Then from the opening in the rock showed a beam of white light and a man slowly
emerged from the Caves. The grip on Penrun relaxed slightly as the man came toward the two
combatants. Penrun could distinguish him closely now. A heavy, pasty face with liquid black
eyes and a crown of thinning hair. Helgers! He was staggering and grunting under the weight
of a heavy metal box.

       *       *       *       *       *

"What's the matter, Borgain?" he asked.

"Got this bird, Penrun, we been waitin' for!"

"We don't need him, now that we already have the treasure. Still, it's a good thing we found
him. Just as well to have no tales circulating about the Universe about our find. Toss him
into the gorge, and go down and watch the other three chests until I get--"

"Dick, Dick!" Irma's excited voice floated down from up among the boulders. "The spiders with
those red cylinder torches have arrived! They are attacking the Osprey!"

Helgers jerked up his head.

"Why, if it isn't the little spitfire!" he exclaimed in pleased astonishment. "I thought the
damned spiders had eaten her long before this. Rather changes things, Borgain. I'll just go
on up and let my little playmate know I am here. Toss our friend over the edge there, and bring
up another treasure chest."

"What was that she was sayin' about the spiders attackin' the Osprey?" Borgain's voice was anxious.

"Oh, that's nothing the boys can't handle," said Helgers confidently. "In case they don't,
we'll have to feel sorry for them and take our friend's sphere. Only have to split the treasure
two ways, in that case," he added, moving up the slope.

Borgain's answer was a grunt of surprise, for his captive had squirmed suddenly out of his
clutch. The big man plunged forward recklessly with arms outstretched in the groping darkness.
Penrun, desperately remembering the sickening drop at their feet to the pool three thousand
feet below, backed against the rock.

A flash of lightning. Borgain's ape-like arms were nearing him. Penrun lashed out at the darkened
features. His knuckles bit deep into the flesh. He slipped aside as Borgain, mouthing fearful
curses, rammed into the rock wall and rebounded.

       *       *       *       *       *

Again the fumbling search. Another lightning flash. Penrun struck with frenzied desperation.
Borgain took the blow behind the ear and staggered. He whirled, wild with fury, and charged
vainly along the narrow ledge.

"I'll get ye this time, damn your dirty carcass--ugh!"

Guided by the sound of his voice, Penrun struck with all his strength. Borgain's nose flattened
under the blow. He whirled half around.

"I'll kill ye! I'll kill--help, help--a-ah!"

Lost in the blackness he had plunged over the lip of the rock, thinking he was charging Penrun.
Down into the yawning gorge his body hurtled, the sound of his frenzied, dwindling screams
floating up eerily out of the black, ominous depths.

