Joel said calmly: "That is not so; because we know about--liking each other, already. I know
how it is with you. It is clothes that you are thinking about. Well, you can get them in the
stores. And you have many, already. You have new dresses whenever I see you...."

She laughed gayly. "But, Joel, you only see me once in three years. Of course I have new dresses,
then. But I just couldn't...."

She laughed again, a faint uneasiness in her laughter. She left his knee, and sat down soberly
beside him. She was feeling a little crushed, smothered ... as though she were being pushed
back against a wall. Joel said steadily:

"Mr. Worthen will be glad to know you go with me. And every one will be glad for you...."

She burst, abruptly, into tears. She was miserable, she told him. He was making her miserable.
She hated to be bullied, and he was trying to bully her. She hated him. She wouldn't marry
him. Never. He could go off on his old ship and never come back. That was all. She would not
go; and he ought not to ask her to, anyway. To prove how much she hated him, she nestled against
his side, and his arm enfolded her.

Joel had not the outward seeming of a wise man; nevertheless he now said:

"The other girls will all be envying you. To be married so quickly, and carried away the very
next day...." Her sobs miraculously ceased, and he smiled quietly down upon her dark head against
his breast. "Every one will do things for you.... The whole town.... They will come down to
see us sail away."

He fell silent, leaving his words for her consideration. She remained very quiet against his
side for a long time, breathing very softly. He thought he could almost read her thoughts....

"It will be," he said, "like a story. Like a romance." And the word sounded strangely on his
sober lips.

But at the word, the girl sat up quickly, both hands gripping his arm. He could see her eyes
dancing in the moonlight.... "Oh, Joe," she cried, "it would really be just loads of fun. And
terribly romantic.... Wonderful!" She pressed a hand to her cheek, thinking: "And I could...."

She could, she said, do thus and so....

Joel listened, and he smiled. For he knew that his bride would sail away with him.

IV

In the few days that remained before the Nathan Ross was to sail, there was no time for remodeling
her cabin to accommodate Priscilla; so that was left for the first weeks of the cruise. There
were matters enough, without it, to occupy those last days. Little Priss was caught up like
a leaf in the wind; she was whirled this way and that in a pleasant and heart-stirring confusion.
And through it all, her laughter rang in the air like the sound of bells. To Joel, Sunday night,
she said: "Oh, Joe ... it's been an awful rush. But it's been such fun.... And I never was
so happy in my life."

And Joel smiled, and said quietly: "Yes--with happier times to come."

She looked up at him wistfully. "You'll be good to me, won't you, Joel?" He patted her shoulder.

They were married in the big old white church, and every pew was filled. Afterwards they all
went down to the piers, where Asa Worthen had spread long tables and loaded them so that they
groaned. Alongside lay the Nathan Ross, her decks littered with the last confusion of preparation.
Joel showed Priscilla the lumber for the cabin alterations, ranked along the rail beneath the
boathouse; and she gripped his arm tight with both hands. Afterwards, he took Priscilla up
the hill to the great House of Shore. Rachel had prepared their wedding supper there....

At a quarter before ten o'clock the next morning, the Nathan Ross went out with the tide. When
she had cleared the dock and was fairly in the stream, Joel gave her in charge of Jim Finch;
and he and Priscilla stood in the after house, astern, and looked back at the throng upon the
pier until the individual figures merged into a black mass, pepper-and-salted with color where
the women stood. They could see the handkerchiefs flickering, until a turn of the channel swept
them out of sight of the town, and they drifted on through the widening mouth of the bay, toward
the open sea. At dusk that night, there was still land in sight behind them and on either side;
but when Priscilla came on deck in the morning, there was nothing but blue water and laughing
waves. And so she was homesick, all that day, and laughed not at all till the evening, when
the moon bathed the ship in silver fire, and the white-caps danced all about them.

The Nathan Ross was in no sense a lovely ship. There was about her none of the poetry of the
seas. She was designed strictly for utility, and for hard and dirty toil. Blunt she was of
bow and stern, and her widest point was just abeam the foremast, so that she had great shoulders
that buffeted the sea. These shoulders bent inward toward the prow and met in what was practically
a right angle; and her stern was cut almost straight across, with only enough overhang to give
the rudder room. Furthermore, her masts had no rake. They stood up stiff and straight as sore
thumbs; and the bowsprit, instead of being something near horizontal, rose toward the skies
at an angle close to forty-five degrees. This bowsprit made the Nathan Ross look as though
she had just stubbed her toe. She carried four boats at the davits; and two spare craft, bottom
up, on the boathouse just forward of the mizzenmast. Three of the four at the davits were on
the starboard side, and since they were each thirty feet long, while the ship herself was scarce
a hundred and twenty, they gave her a sadly cluttered and overloaded appearance. For the rest,
she was painted black, with a white checkerboarding around the rail; and her sails were smeared
and smutty with smoke from burning blubber scraps.

Nevertheless, she was a comfortable ship, and a dry one. She rode waves that would have swept
a vessel cut on prouder lines; and she was moderately steady. She was not fast, nor cared to
be. An easy five or six knots contented her; for the whole ocean was her hunting ground, and
though there were certain more favored areas, you might meet whales anywhere. Give her time,
and she would poke that blunt nose of hers right 'round the world, and come back with a net
profit anywhere up to a hundred and fifty thousand dollars in her sweating casks.

Priscilla Holt knew all these things, and she respected the Nathan Ross on their account. But
during the first weeks of the cruise, she was too much interested in the work on the cabin
to consider other matters. Old Aaron Burnham, the carpenter, did the work. He was a wiry little
man, gray and grizzled; and he loved the tools of his craft with a jealous love that forbade
the laying on of impious hands. Through the long, calm days, when the ship snored like a sleep-walker
through the empty seas, Priscilla would sit on box or bench or floor, and watch Aaron at his
task, and ask him questions, and listen to the old man's long stories of things that had come
and gone.

Sometimes she tried to help him; but he would not let her handle an edged tool. "Ye'll no have
the eye for it," he would say. "Leave it be." Now and then he let her try to drive a nail;
but as often as not she missed the nail head and marred the soft wood, until Aaron lost patience
with her. "Mark you," he cried, "men will see the scar there, and they'll be thinking I did
this task with my foot, Ma'am."

And Priscilla would laugh at him, and curl up with her feet tucked under her skirts and her
chin in her hands, and watch him by the long hour on hour.

The task dragged on; it seemed to her endless. For Aaron had other work that must be done,
and he could give only his spare time to this. Also, he was a slow worker, accustomed to take
his own time; and when Priscilla grew impatient and scolded him, the old man merely sat back
on his knees, and scratched his head, and tapped thoughtfully with his hammer on the floor
beside him.

"We-ell, Ma'am," he said, "I do things so, and I do things so; and it takes time, that does,
Ma'am."

Now and then, through those days, Priscilla's enthusiasm would send her skittering up the companion
to fetch Joel to see some new wonder--a window set in the stern, or a bench completed, or a
door hung. And Joel, looking far oftener at Priscilla than at the object she wished him to
consider, would chuckle, and touch her shoulder affectionately, and go back to his post.

In the sixth week, the last nail had been driven, and the last lick of paint was dry. In the
result, Priscilla was as happy as a bride has a right to be.

Across the very stern of the ship, with windows looking out upon the wake, ran what might have
been called a sitting room. It was perhaps twenty feet wide and eight feet deep; and its rear
wall--formed by the overhanging stern--sloped outward toward the ceiling. Against this slope,
beneath the three windows, a broad, cushioned bench was built, to serve as couch or seat. The
bench was broken in one place to make room for Joel's desk, and the cabinet wherein he kept
his records and his instruments. Priss had put curtains on the windows; and she had a lily,
in a pot, at one of them, and a clump of pansies at another. Joel's cabin opened off this compartment,
on the starboard side; hers was opposite. The main cabin, with its folding table built about
the thick butt of the mizzenmast, had been extended forward to make room for the enlargement
of this stern apartment; and the mates were quartered off this main cabin. The galley and the
store rooms were on the main deck, in the after house, on either side of the awkward "walking
wheel" by which the ship was steered; and the cabin companion was just forward of this wheel.

There were aboard the Nathan Ross about thirty men, all told; but the most of them were not
of Priscilla's world. The foremast hands never came aft of the try works, save on tasks assigned;
and the secondary officers--boat-steerers and the like--slept in the steerage and kept forward
of the boathouse. Thus the after deck was shared only by Priscilla and Joel, the mates, the
cook, and old Aaron, who was a man of many privileges.

This world, Priscilla ruled. Joel adored her; Jim Finch gave her the clumsy homage of a puppy--and
was at times just as oppressively amiable. Old Aaron talked to her by the hour, while he went
about his work. And the other mates--Varde, the sullen; and Hooper, who was old and losing
his grip; and Dick Morrell, who was young and finding his--paid her the respect that was her
due. Young Morrell--he was not even as old as she was--helped her on her first climb to the
mast head. He was only a boy.... The girl, when the first homesick pangs were past, was happy.

Until the day they killed their whale, a seventy-barrel cachalot cow who died as peaceably
as a chicken, with only a convulsive flop or two when the lances found the life. Priscilla
took a single glimpse of the shuddering, bloody, oily work of cutting in the carcass, and then
she fled to her cabin and remained there steadfastly until the long task was done. The smoke
from the bubbling try pots, and the persistent smell of boiling blubber sickened her; and the
grime that descended over everything appalled her dainty soul. Not until the men had cleaned
ship did she go on deck again; and even then she scolded Joel for the affair as though it were
a matter for which he was wholly to blame.

"There just isn't any sense in making so much dirt," she told him. "I've had to wash out every
one of my curtains; and I can't ever get rid of that smell."

