Wood Folk at School

WOOD FOLK AT SCHOOL

BY

WILLIAM J. LONG

WOOD FOLK SERIES BOOK FOUR

GINN & COMPANY BOSTON · NEW YORK · CHICAGO · LONDON

ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL

COPYRIGHT, 1902, 1903 BY WILLIAM J. LONG

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

The Athenæum Press GINN & COMPANY · CAMBRIDGE · MASSACHUSETTS

PREFACE

It may surprise many, whose knowledge of wild animals is gained from rare, fleeting glimpses
of frightened hoof or wing in the woods, to consider that there can be such a thing as a school
for the Wood Folk; or that instruction has any place in the life of the wild things. Nevertheless
it is probably true that education among the higher order of animals has its distinct place
and value. Their knowledge, however simple, is still the result of three factors: instinct,
training, and experience. Instinct only begins the work; the mother's training develops and
supplements the instinct; and contact with the world, with its sudden dangers and unknown forces,
finishes the process.

For many years the writer has been watching animals and recording his observations with the
idea of determining, if possible, which of these three is the governing factor in the animal's
life. Some of the results of this study were published last year in a book called "School of
the Woods," which consisted of certain studies of animals from life, and certain theories in
the form of essays to account for what the writer's eyes had seen and his own ears heard in
the great wilderness among the animals. Gradually raising had gone from his fall, and already missed. This will consoled and
satisfied him, and if he had not already Coteruco was because I wanted to be desired a little more,
to better ensure the healing of his "crazy." Unfortunately not involved those children of their
dreams, because they had other tastes very different, but all could fixed with some sacrifice of
everyone. Meanwhile, distracted by his impatience with spells of a little grandson that God
had given him, and was the most beautiful creature he had born mother. He went then in proceeding
with Sotorribas projects, so that the known his other grandfather, Don Lazaro, whose ailments prevented
him from leaving home.

Someone asked if there was true that Don Gonzalo González de la Gonzalera had been poor memory
and trouble and waste resulting from domestic, but got no response the question because of
a sudden appeared in the room a new character that began to say that not for having shot three
times on the floor and almost burst the dappled in his desire to run, had been reached before.
Thus came the unhappy muddy and tattered from head to toe! He was a man of good age, nice
picture ... and its municipal judge people, from that very empingorotado that I had met one of my blood
of promise, Neluco going to the Tower of Provedaño. The case was that by going to ride early
in the morning attend the funeral of my uncle, had delivered a letter from the court of first
instance forcing him to practice some procedures as he entertained about two hours ... all respects
to "trigedia" the day before, that I should know, and for this the truth were told, for who
knew him mainly came.

Hicímosle seat at the table, preventing Facia that were served from the noodle soup inclusive,
and while out Tona and his mother was changing and removing leftover food destroyed in stews,
and all we paid him very great care, he noted that lowering a pastor of winter, just started
the desnieve, cross country, because it pushed the ran very cold and a black cloud of bad
part and worse road, stopped for a moment and take a tinderbox and light the pipe, the same
mouth of a covachón, known to very few for being out of path frequented, as half the distance, the
short cut between Tablanca and the people of relatante, but in this municipality. Standing
there and give the pastor you hit the edge of the knife, because it sparked the stone was not
tinder the best, notes on the nose gives a "jedor" that would lie on his back. Look here smells
there, note that the jedor out of the cave, curiosity tempt them, enter, and at a bend very wide,
to the right, sees three men lying in the long run, face up, stiff and almost stacked on each
other, killed three and leaning against one of ash and embers Piluca off. Frightening, flee
from there, and for being the closest, according to his account, gives the people the narrator
relates what he has seen. It goes back in his office, accompanied by appropriate way, and
truth is denounced by the pastor. Three were, indeed, the bodies and of well-known place, and
were well equipped firearms ... and up ropes and knives. Without doubt the surprise snowstorm
there since the beginning, and they perished from hunger and cold ... by decree of God who
knew his evil intentions. It was a comb that was called an engineer and said go in search
of a gold mine, months made and, with his ragged clothes, his matted hair and wild beard and seams
in the face, it started half an eye and nose.

Here there was a clatter of dishes infernal tattered, and a cry of Facia who is had fallen from
his hands as a dozen of them. Then I looked and found her looking at me me with frightened eyes
and the color of death in the face. I told him to mine not to commit indiscreet; entendióme, and
added in words and smiling was not the mess one reason to be frightened so much, referring
to the pieces, while snuggled Tona the municipal judge's two half-full of dishes knowledgeable
sources, so some pasmadona had caught the story, but probably more by the disaster of the vessel,
which had started her mother cry.

Relatante to become the story after this incident, and seeing that, out of respect for I certainly
was with Repulgue and fussiness to testify who were net Castilian the other two dead, apresuréme
to say:

- I am well aware of who it is, and you want to avoid reluctance to declare before me are two
of my relatives, of the two gentlemen of promise. With a that the engineer lived CHIRLA, in his
hometown of you: we saw them together and I passed Neluco for him, going to Provedaño. As good
news source, then waiting overnight missing brother of one my relative (who, apparently, arrived
in time) to give final blow to the exploitation of gold mine he had discovered the lynx wild
beard. In good justice, had three more than deserved the stick, which had dead are not dying in this
different manner. So you see you if I have to reason, as far as touches my relatives, to rejoice
that they have finished well, like any good man.

Preopinante said was the truth that everything I had said, added in response a question that
someone did, that the man in the face Chirlo had lived in the place with the name, certainly, of course,
Pedro Gonzalez as reflected in his personal card, and that that had been registered as dead
in the book in question; alegréme yo this, and surely would be glad Facia, who listened, much
more ... and ended the conversation without getting into a new one, because he had also finished
the meal, time was pressing and had much to outsiders for the guests go back to their homes
each, and other to complete their journey. Because Don was the first leg advantage to Recaredo
Tablanca to transact business, yet that step and a half ago in a village of Nansa downstream, and
was also renowned chores campurriano emergency in the capital so he took with Don Roman and her
husband. Disappeared without knowing how Don Lope; depart, while he was eating everything put
in front of the municipal judge aforesaid, the two unequal and the five wealthiest Caórnica Nansa
upstream and downstream of the house, ended at last, eating the remaining eating, and went
off too, and well stocked, instead ...

The next day, very early, took off to Robacio's sister and brother-Neluco, and few hours later,
alas! I also left the whole family of giant of Castañalera.

XXXI

And that was the darkest for me! Of me, alone in the fields of muted and stiff the manor house,
castle of my new and patriarchal dominion, in the poor soil of "my greatest." Everything was
wide, all I was left over there and all I came up, as if built in the air, since he had returned
home the family of the old Marmitón. Because the continued presence of some women as lively and
happy as these two, more hectic when engaged and walked in and out of so many different people
in recent days, could not find me in its true light the void left in the death house of habitation
and venerable owner, who, alive, filled her whole and was also the bond that tied me to it with
the strength of my commitment, funded primarily in consideration
of what he considered the gift of my company.

Often came to see me and Neluco Cura Don Sabas, and spent long hours with me, still the gathering
of the night very busy and lively; presidial me with the greatest assiduity, and made pluck up
the courage to believe a lot of fun in it, or to let him know ahead of those rustic and good commentators,
ocupábame at times to dispatch or to fix my mail papers and accounts of the estate, spoke to
Facia and I was pleased to see how believing and, under the news brought by the municipal judge
of yore, and my subsequent reflections, forever free of the cross that had so oppressed and kept
assuming at the bottom of a grave the secret of what could be an affront to his daughter, was the
poor women turning to life, and gradually regained the strength of his spirit exhausted, crying and
praying while the hapless man, died with the black-stained soul intentions after an eventful
life and criminal gozábame also decipher the impenetrable continent of Chisco certain characters
confused himself betrayed in their glee pechazo gentle and deep from the legacy of the "stack
of ounces", and pull his tongue to know how he was since then in their dealings and friendships
with the family of Toper, which, as I know, has been humanized a lot with him and even "caught
him with eyes memorials" and even with some hints too suggestive; interesábame Pito Salces
really that amurriadote and suspicious walked fearing that would have changed the good dispositions
of Tona to him since his mother was rich, and even on their own, taking the poor for contempt
astonishment, very natural, which fell monsoon sets in those days of fat, left home sometimes
to vent some ideas and stretch cramped limbs, but was always waterlogged soil as a sponge and cold
the sun that illuminated the valley, while I mowed the beard the environment not put out a match
and had to go back to my hole without having dared to fall on stony ground where it wanted to
conduct impulses of my need to socialize with someone who understood me; tramábala with Chisco
later or the first one I put forward, and, finally, even sought, following the teachings of
Neluco bucolic, down to my right, the brighter, the dark places of those men to find the desired
level and with it the promised pleasure, but even so, I left over endless hours of solitude
and silence in those aged and black moors echoing the echo of my steps give fever as if under a
gloomy vaults dungeon, and wherever you look, that my heroic efforts to make life bearable
was not there to be anything other than work in prison, even with the tough, deep and tempting
to want to escape.

Be escaped, because he had returned to imponérseme this idea, not
the first time going through my brain felt like a blast, but as an
irresistible itch that was falling apart at times the work of my acclimation,
almost nearing completion now.

It seemed to drain a truly despicable, but the bodies left in the air, fall under its own gravity;
I felt so down, broken, with the death of my uncle, the link that bound me over to the house. Admittedly,
I left the bonds of commitment and solemnized many times before so many different people, but
it was also true that he had put that commitment I limit 'as I possibly could, "and that,
assuming that it became capable to penetrate the work of my uncle to work on it, my work would not
be continuous or individual hour or even every day, whereas the tedious reality that was suffocating
me continuously Perennial, all the time.

Constantly struggling between these impulses empecatados and dislikes of my consciousness formal
man, there were times when I laughed at my own, seeing reason with the criterion ill-assorted
a schoolboy with his confinement.

What things occurred to me to justify a trip, with a promise to return and intention not to
fulfill it!

After sobering up and giving more of my thoughts to consider the value
detúveme of which had achieved good results with the work of my own
observations, and example and preaching, more or less directly, my
uncle, Neluco, Mr. de la Torre of Provedaño, mostly, and many others
of great rides, and then I felt ashamed I have thought as to shake
the burden of my sorrows.

Placed in this area, soon realized that what I needed at once and with urgency to exit gracefully
from the conflict, was to acquire other bonds to replace what's broken by death, another new
link Tablanca me to join, and not as closely as it was my uncle,
to the point, at least he left the house to be a prison for me.

Well. But this link where to find him? What breed was it? ... Who knows the spaces then walked
to the angry and visionary imagination!

In this fast and crazy ride I found no quiet time or rest, because everything seemed wrong
to make a high Respite ... until I found the most singular of occurrences. But it was even a assumptions
on which to conclude the analysis fatigued. As a result, and with all the scrupulous detail
of whom, as I meditate on that matter as serious as the first time in his life. I raised thoughts
over the barriers craggy valley, and carried him far, far away of Tablanca, closed my eyes, I went
to the parts of memory, and was extracting from it a legion of images, which I later paraded
one by one, ahead of me. When he had spent the last figure of this bizarre procession returned
to the thought the realities of Tablanca montunos ... and I put my hands to his head as he
realizes that has been filling it with nonsense ideas for saving. I turned off the flashlight
of my thoughts and, oh surprise, with the last ray of light I saw her breeze through obfuscated
terms of imagination, a new and unexpected image that seemed to have itself the power to resolve
all the difficulties of conflict. But ... And I ended up making me crosses and to laugh.

Was still laughing when he came Neluco.

- So I like to see you - I said - and not with the degustation of
these sad days ago.

- For her return, Neluco friend - I said - if
God does the miracle that I ask.

- However, you laugh now ...

-
Laughing Rabbit ...

- I do not insist - said the doctor - because
I do not want to have you by reckless, but I assure you, without that
fear, more than twice had asked him in recent days on the grounds
of a disappointment that you could not hide.

Woke up this statement Neluco the idea, not entirely asleep on me,
to confess with him as Facia had pleaded with me.

Could expect much from the advice of your experience, and, ultimately,
the relief given in the crush of departing spirits of the resource
them with a good understanding friend.

- Exactly - I said armándome
resolution - I had a great desire to have a paragraph with you on
these individuals.

So, now or ever.

I closed the door of my cabinet, sentámonos the two with the table between them, and began to
speak as follows:

- You must know, friend Neluco that since returning to the rule of order and silence in this house after
my uncle died and was buried, I do not know where to invest the hours I have plenty in it ...
I seem endless, do not see how to improve them and it scares me the
future with a similar perspective.

This is the truth of what happens to me, will I have to your good friend, and you declare
it.

- Why? - I asked the doctor, very quietly, after a silent contemplation
moments.

- For now - I answered - so that you know, then, that, if
any kindly assist me with his authoritative advice.

- What? - Ask
me again with the same serenity as before.

- Well, I like the occurrence,
gee - I cried a little bit by that way of cornering, that looked very
much like a joke rather heavy -.

What is meant here to help a man perishing in the bottom of a cliff?

- Excuse me - "the doctor - but either I'm not in my right mind, or the case I quoted for example,
is not entirely applicable to your particular case. Which is in the bottom of a cliff, can
have no other desire than to go out and get away from him and you,
in the situation today is, you can serve in two ways: helping out
it, or go for a test work bearable and even fun.

Now you tell which of these two extremes is.

- The best seems to you - I said - or both together ... In order to please you in my case, tell
me frankly.

- Well, frankly I say - said the doctor not to wonder what happens to you. I expected ... Be clear:
Don Celso expected dead and you alone at home, was to it seem bigger, blacker and bleaker than
before, and the time spent on it very long and tiresome.

Nothing more natural in a man of taste, education and you worldly background. I did not expect
it to arrive their disappointments so far that, apparently, has come ... Well, look you, Don
Marco: courtesy or even I encourage you to divert your boredom, get the hell next to Tablanca;
advice that, or I can not read faces or is it more had you to thank me. And do not give, I am
quite sure that if the long run you in the state of mind that is now, not here again for all
the days of his life.

- Men - said I caught in the middle of right - that's saying a lot.

-
No more and no less than fair - "the doctor - because it is the truth,
and you can not and should not do that, but let's forgotten some promise
and to the solemn occasion which was ratified, because you have nothing
to do in this world that tempts him, and here yes, because there -
and dispense openness - despite his personal merits, it would not
to be one in the bunch of anonymous, and this would play a much more
lucid, not by the glitz of its hierarchy, but by the charitable status
of the position.

None of this means that you are perpetually forced to bury here: on the contrary, I would
the first to advise him not to, that from time to time transposed these summits to whoop it
up, pretty sure that these raids, made by a man of understanding and culture and flows you were
to look at the end of the benefit of this valley.


Far back in the wilderness, where Ismaques builds his nest and goes a-fishing just as his ancestors
did a thousand years ago, one finds the same honest bird, unspoiled alike by plenty or poverty,
that excited our boyish imagination and won the friendly regard of our ancestors of the coast.
Opposite my camp on the lake, where I tarried long one summer, charmed by the beauty of the
place and the good fishing, a pair of fishhawks had built their nest in the top of a great
spruce on the mountain side. It was this pair of birds that came daily to circle over my canoe,
or over the rocks where I fished for chub, to see how I fared, and to send back a cheery Ch'wee!
chip, ch'weeee! "good luck and good fishing," as they wheeled away. It would take a good deal
of argument now to convince me that they did not at last recognize me as a fellow-fisherman,
and were not honestly interested in my methods and success.

At first I went to the nest, not so much to study the fishhawks as to catch fleeting glimpses
of a shy, wild life of the woods, which is hidden from most eyes. The fishing was good, and
both birds were expert fishermen. While the young were growing there was always an abundance
in the big nest on the spruce top. The overflow of this abundance, in the shape of heads, bones
and unwanted remnants, was cast over the sides of the nest and furnished savory pickings for
a score of hungry prowlers. Mink came over from frog hunting in the brook, drawn by the good
smell in the air. Skunks lumbered down from the hill, with a curious, hollow, bumping sound
to announce their coming. Weasels, and one grizzly old pine marten, too slow or rheumatic for
successful tree hunting, glided out of the underbrush and helped themselves without asking
leave. Wild-cats quarreled like fiends over the pickings; more than once I heard them there
screeching in the night. And one late afternoon, as I lingered in my hiding among the rocks
while the shadows deepened, a big lucivee stole out of the bushes, as if ashamed of himself,
and took to nosing daintily among the fish bones.

It was his first appearance, evidently. He did not know that the feast was free, but thought
all the while that he was stealing somebody's catch. One could see it all in his attitudes,
his starts and listenings, his low growlings to himself. He was bigger than anybody else there,
and had no cause to be afraid; but there is a tremendous respect among all animals for the
chase law and the rights of others; and the big cat felt it. He was hungry for fish; but, big
as he was, his every movement showed that he was ready to take to his heels before the first
little creature that should rise up and screech in his face: "This is mine!" Later, when he
grew accustomed to things and the fishhawks' generosity in providing a feast for all who might
come in from the wilderness byways and hedges, he would come in boldly enough and claim his
own; but now, moving stealthily about, halting and listening timidly, he furnished a study
in animal rights that repaid in itself all the long hours of watching.

But the hawks themselves were more interesting than their unbidden guests. Ismaques, honest
fellow that he is, mates for life, and comes back to the same nest year after year. The only
exception to this rule that I know is in the case of a fishhawk, whom I knew well as a boy,
and who lost his mate one summer by an accident. The accident came from a gun in the hands
of an unthinking sportsman. The grief of Ismaques was evident, even to the unthinking. One
could hear it in the lonely, questioning cry that he sent out over the still summer woods;
and see it in the sweep of his wings as he went far afield to other ponds, not to fish, for
Ismaques never fishes on his neighbor's preserves, but to search for his lost mate. For weeks
he lingered in the old haunts, calling and searching everywhere; but at last the loneliness
and the memories were too much for him. He left the place long before the time of migration
had come; and the next spring a strange couple came to the spot, repaired the old nest, and
went fishing in the pond. Ordinarily the birds respect each other's fishing grounds, and especially
the old nests; but this pair came and took possession without hesitation, as if they had some
understanding with the former owner, who never came back again.

The old spruce on the mountain side had been occupied many years by my fishing friends. As
is usually the case, it had given up its life to its bird masters. The oil from their frequent
feastings had soaked into the bark, following down and down, checking the sap's rising, till
at last it grew discouraged and ceased to climb. Then the tree died and gave up its branches,
one by one, to repair the nest above. The jagged, broken ends showed everywhere how they had
been broken off to supply the hawks' necessities.

There is a curious bit of building lore suggested by these broken branches, that one may learn
for himself any springtime by watching the birds at their nest building. Large sticks are required
for a foundation. The ground is strewed with such; but Ismaques never comes down to the ground
if he can avoid it. Even when he drops an unusually heavy fish, in his flight above the trees,
he looks after it regretfully, but never follows. He may be hungry, but he will not set his
huge hooked talons on the earth. He cannot walk, and loses all his power there. So he goes
off and fishes patiently, hours long, to replace his lost catch.

When he needs sticks for his nest, he searches out a tree and breaks off the dead branches
by his weight. If the stick be stubborn, he rises far above it and drops like a cannon ball,
gripping it in his claws and snapping it short off at the same instant by the force of his
blow. Twice I have been guided to where Ismaques and his mate were collecting material by reports
like pistol shots ringing through the wood, as the great birds fell upon the dead branches
and snapped them off. Once, when he came down too hard, I saw him fall almost to the ground,
flapping lustily, before he found his wings and sailed away with his four-foot stick triumphantly.

There is another curious bit of bird lore that I discovered here in the autumn, when, much
later than usual, I came back through the lake. Ismaques, when he goes away for the long winter
at the South, does not leave his house to the mercy of the winter storms until he has first
repaired it. Large fresh sticks are wedged in firmly across the top of the nest; doubtful ones
are pulled out and carefully replaced, and the whole structure made shipshape for stormy weather.
This careful repair, together with the fact that the nest is always well soaked in oil, which
preserves it from the rain, saves a deal of trouble for Ismaques. He builds for life and knows,
when he goes away in the fall, that, barring untoward accidents, his house will be waiting
for him with the quiet welcome of old associations when he comes back in the spring. Whether
this is a habit of all ospreys, or only of the two on Big Squatuk Lake--who were very wise
birds in other ways--I am unable to say.

What becomes of the young birds is also, to me, a mystery. The home ties are very strong, and
the little ones stay with the parents much longer than most other birds do; but when the spring
comes you will see only the old birds at the home nest. The young come back to the same general
neighborhood, I think; but where the lake is small they never build nor trespass on the same
waters. As with the kingfishers and sheldrakes, each pair of birds seem to have their own pond
or portion; but by what old law of the waters they find and stake their claim is yet to be
discovered.

There were two little ones in the nest when I first found it; and I used to watch them in the
intervals when nothing was stirring in the underbrush near my hiding place. They were happy,
whistling, little fellows, well fed and contented with the world. At times they would stand
for hours on the edge of the nest, looking down over the slanting tree-tops to the lake, finding
the great rustling green world, and the passing birds, and the glinting of light on the sparkling
water, and the hazy blue of the distant mountains marvelously interesting, if one could judge
from their attitude and their pipings. Then a pair of broad wings would sweep into sight, and
they would stretch their wings wide and break into eager whistlings,--Pip, pip, ch'wee? chip,
ch'weeeeee? "did you get him? is he a big one, mother?" And they would stand tiptoeing gingerly
about the edge of the great nest, stretching their necks eagerly for a first glimpse of the catch.

At times only one of the old birds would go a-fishing, while the other watched the nest. But
when luck was poor both birds would seek the lake. At such times the mother bird, larger and
stronger than the male, would fish along the shore, within sight and hearing of her little
ones. The male, meanwhile, would go sweeping down the lake to the trout pools at the outlet,
where the big chub lived, in search of better fishing grounds. If the wind were strong, you
would see a curious bit of sea lore as he came back with his fish. He would never fly straight
against the wind, but tack back and forth, as if he had learned the trick from watching the
sailor fishermen of the coast beating back into harbor. And, watching him through your glass,
you would see that he always carried his fish endwise and head first, so as to present the
least possible resistance to the breeze.

While the young were being fed, you were certain to gain new respect for Ismaques by seeing
how well he brought up his little ones. If the fish were large, it was torn into shreds and
given piecemeal to the young, each of whom waited for his turn with exemplary patience. There
was no crowding or pushing for the first and biggest bite, such as you see in a nest of robins.
If the fish were small, it was given entire to one of the young, who worried it down as best
he could, while the mother bird swept back to the lake for another. The second nestling stood
on the edge of the nest meanwhile, whistling good luck and waiting his turn, without a thought,
apparently, of seizing a share from his mate beside him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just under the hawks a pair of jays had built their nest among the sticks of Ismaques' dwelling,
and raised their young on the abundant crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. It was
curious and intensely interesting to watch the change which seemed to be going on in the jays'
disposition by reason of the unusual friendship. Deedeeaskh the jay has not a friend among
the wood folk. They all know he is a thief and a meddler, and hunt him away without mercy if
they find him near their nests. But the great fishhawks welcomed him, trusted him; and he responded
nobly to the unusual confidence. He never tried to steal from the young, not even when the
mother bird was away, but contented himself with picking up the stray bits that they had left.
And he more than repaid Ismaques by the sharp watch which he kept over the nest, and indeed
over all the mountain side. Nothing passes in the woods without the jay's knowledge; and here
he seemed, for all the world, like a watchful terrier, knowing that he had only to bark to
bring a power of wing and claw sufficient to repel any danger. When prowlers came down from
the mountain to feast on the heads and bones scattered about the foot of the tree, Deedeeaskh
dropped down among them and went dodging about, whistling his insatiable curiosity. So long
as they took only what was their own, he made no fuss about it; but he was there to watch,
and he let them know sharply their mistake, if they showed any desire to cast evil eyes at
the nest above.

Once, as my canoe was gliding along the shore, I heard the jays' unmistakable cry of danger.
The fishhawks were wheeling in great circles over the lake, watching for the glint of fish
near the surface, when the cry came, and they darted away for the nest. Pushing out into the
lake, I saw them sweeping above the tree-tops in swift circles, uttering short, sharp cries
of anger. Presently they began to swoop fiercely at some animal--a fisher, probably--that was
climbing the tree below. I stole up to see what it was; but ere I reached the place they had
driven the intruder away. I heard one of the jays far off in the woods, following the robber
and screaming to let the fishhawks know just where he was. The other jay sat close by her own
little ones, cowering under the shadow of the great dark wings above. And presently Deedeeaskh
came back, bubbling over with the excitement, whistling to them in his own way that he had
followed the rascal clear to his den, and would keep a sharp watch over him in future.

When a big hawk came near, or when, on dark afternoons, a young owl took to hunting in the
neighborhood, the jays sounded the alarm, and the fishhawks swept up from the lake on the instant.
Whether Deedeeaskh were more concerned for his own young than for the young fishhawks I have
no means of knowing. The fishermen's actions at such times showed a curious mixture of fear
and defiance. The mother would sit on the nest while Ismaques circled over it, both birds uttering
a shrill, whistling challenge. But they never attacked the feathered robbers, as they had done
with the fisher, and, so far as I could see, there was no need. Kookooskoos the owl and Hawahak
the hawk might be very hungry; but the sight of those great wings circling over the nest and
the shrill cry of defiance in their ears sent them hurriedly away to other hunting grounds.

There was only one enemy that ever seriously troubled the fishhawks; and he did it in as decent
a sort of way as was possible under the circumstances. That was Cheplahgan the eagle. When
he was hungry and had found nothing himself, and his two eaglets, far away in their nest on
the mountain, needed a bite of fish to vary their diet, he would set his wings to the breeze
and mount up till he could see both ospreys at their fishing. There, sailing in slow circles,
he would watch for hours till he saw Ismaques catch a big fish, when he would drop like a bolt
and hold him up at the point of his talons, like any other highwayman. It was of no use trying
to escape. Sometimes Ismaques would attempt it, but the great dark wings would whirl around
him and strike down a sharp and unmistakable warning. It always ended the same way. Ismaques,
being wise, would drop his fish, and the eagle would swoop down after it, often seizing it
ere it reached the water. But he never injured the fishhawks, and he never disturbed the nest.
So they got along well enough together. Cheplahgan had a bite of fish now and then in his own
high-handed way; and honest Ismaques, who never went long hungry, made the best of a bad situation.
Which shows that fishing has also taught him patience, and a wise philosophy of living.

The jays took no part in these struggles. Occasionally they cried out a sharp warning as Cheplahgan
came plunging down out of the blue, over the head of Ismaques; but they seemed to know perfectly
how the unequal contest must end, and they always had a deal of jabber among themselves over
it, the meaning of which I could never make out.

As for myself, I am sure that Deedeeaskh could never make up his mind what to think of me.
At first, when I came, he would cry out a danger note that brought the fishhawks circling over
their nest, looking down into the underbrush with wild yellow eyes to see what danger threatened.
But after I had hidden myself away a few times, and made no motion to disturb either the nest
or the hungry prowlers that came to feast on the fishhawks' bounty, Deedeeaskh set me down
as an idle, harmless creature who would, nevertheless, bear watching. He never got over his
curiosity to know what brought me there. Sometimes, when I thought him far away, I would find
him suddenly on a branch just over my head, looking down at me intently. When I went away he
would follow me, whistling, to my canoe; but he never called the fishhawks again, unless some
unusual action of mine aroused his suspicion; and after one look they would circle away, as
if they knew they had nothing to fear. They had seen me fishing so often that they thought
they understood me, undoubtedly.

There was one curious habit of these birds that I had never noticed before. Occasionally, when
the weather threatened a change, or when the birds and their little ones had fed full, Ismaques
would mount up to an enormous altitude, where he would sail about in slow circles, his broad
vans steady to the breeze, as if he were an ordinary hen hawk, enjoying himself and contemplating
the world from an indifferent distance. Suddenly, with one clear, sharp whistle to announce
his intention, he would drop like a plummet for a thousand feet, catch himself in mid-air,
and zigzag down to the nest in the spruce top, whirling, diving, tumbling, and crying aloud
the while in wild, ecstatic exclamations,--just as a woodcock comes whirling, plunging, twittering
down from a height to his brown mate in the alders below. Then Ismaques would mount up again
and repeat his dizzy plunge, while his larger mate stood quiet in the spruce top, and the little
fishhawks tiptoed about the edge of the nest, pip-pipping their wonder and delight at their
own papa's dazzling performance.

This is undoubtedly one of Ismaques' springtime habits, by which he tries to win an admiring
look from the keen yellow eyes of his mate; but I noticed him using it more frequently as the
little fishhawks' wings spread to a wonderful length, and he was trying, with his mate, by
every gentle means to induce them to leave the nest. And I have wondered--without being able
at all to prove my theory--whether he were not trying in this remarkable way to make his little
ones want to fly by showing them how wonderful a thing flying could be made to be.

A School for Little Fishermen

There came a day when, as I sat fishing among the rocks, the cry of the mother osprey changed
as she came sweeping up to my fishing grounds,--Chip, ch'wee! Chip, chip, ch'weeeee? That was
the fisherman's hail plainly enough; but there was another note in it, a look-here cry of triumph
and satisfaction. Before I could turn my head, for a fish was nibbling, there came other sounds
behind it,--Pip, pip, pip, ch'weee! pip, ch'wee! pip, ch'weeee! a curious medley, a hail of
good-luck cries; and I knew without turning that two other fishermen had come to join the brotherhood.

The mother bird--one can tell her instantly by her greater size and darker breast markings--veered
in as I turned to greet the newcomers, and came directly over my head, her two little ones
flapping lustily behind her. Two days before, when I went down to another lake on an excursion
after bigger trout, the young fishhawks were still standing on the nest, turning a deaf ear
to all the old birds' assurances that the time had come to use their big wings. The last glimpse
I had of them through my glass showed me the mother bird in one tree, the father in another,
each holding a fish, which they were showing the young across a tantalizing short stretch of
empty air, telling the young in fishhawk language to come across and get it; while the young
birds, on their part, stretched wings and necks hungrily and tried to whistle the fish over
to them, as one would call a dog across the street.

In the short interval that I was absent mother wiles and mother patience had done their good
work. The young were already flying well. Now they were out for their first lesson in fishing,
evidently; and I stopped fishing myself, letting my bait sink into the mud--where an eel presently
tangled my hooks into an old root--to see how it was done. For fishing is not an instinct with
Ismaques, but a simple matter of training. As with young otters, they know only from daily
experience that fish, and not grouse and rabbits, are their legitimate food. Left to themselves,
especially if one should bring them up on flesh and then turn them loose, they would go straight
back to the old hawk habit of hunting the woods, which is much easier. To catch fish, therefore,
they must be taught from the first day they leave the nest. And it is a fascinating experience
for any man to watch the way they go about it.

The young ospreys flew heavily in short irregular circles, scanning the water with their inexperienced
eyes for their first strike. Over them wheeled the mother bird on broad, even wings, whistling
directions to the young neophytes, who would presently be initiated into the old sweet mysteries
of going a-fishing. Fish were plenty enough; but that means nothing to a fishhawk, who must
see his game reasonably near the surface before making his swoop. There was a good jump on
the lake, and the sun shone brightly into it. Between the glare and the motion on the surface
the young fishermen were having a hard time of it. Their eyes were not yet quick enough to
tell them when to swoop. At every gleam of silver in the depths below they would stop short
and cry out: Pip! "there he is!" Pip, pip! "here goes!" like a boy with his first nibble. But
a short, clear whistle from the mother stopped them ere they had begun to fall; and they would
flap up to her, protesting eagerly that they could catch that fellow, sure, if she would only
let them try.

As they wheeled in over me on their way down the lake, one of the youngsters caught the gleam
of my pile of chub among the rocks. Pip, ch'weee! he whistled, and down they came, both of
them, like rockets. They were hungry; here at hand were fish galore; and they had not noticed
me at all, sitting very still among the rocks. Pip, pip, pip, hurrah! they piped as they came down.

But the mother bird, who had noted me and my pile of fish the first thing as she rounded the
point, swept in swiftly with a curious, half-angry, half-anxious chiding that I had never heard
from her before,--Chip, chip, chip! Chip! Chip!--growing sharper and shriller at each repetition,
till they heeded it and swerved aside. As I looked up they were just over my head, looking
down at me now with eager, wondering eyes. Then they were led aside in a wide circle and talked
to with wise, quiet whistlings before they were sent back to their fishing again.

And now as they sweep round and round over the edge of a shoal, one of the little fellows sees
a fish and drops lower to follow it. The mother sees it too; notes that the fish is slanting
up to the surface, and wisely lets the young fisherman alone. He is too near the water now;
the glare and the dancing waves bother him; he loses his gleam of silver in the flash of a
whitecap. Mother bird mounts higher, and whistles him up where he can see better. But there
is the fish again, and the youngster, hungry and heedless, sets his wings for a swoop. Chip,
chip! "wait, he's going down," cautions the mother; but the little fellow, too hungry to wait,
shoots down like an arrow. He is a yard above the surface when a big whitecap jumps up at him
and frightens him. He hesitates, swerves, flaps lustily to save himself. Then under the whitecap
is a gleam of silver again. Down he goes on the instant,--ugh! boo!--like a boy taking his
first dive. He is out of sight for a full moment, while two waves race over him, and I hold
my breath waiting for him to come up. Then he bursts out, sputtering and shaking himself, and
of course without his fish.

As he rises heavily the mother, who has been circling over him whistling advice and comfort,
stops short with a single blow of her pinions against the air. She has seen the same fish,
watched him shoot away under the plunge of her little one, and now sees him glancing up to
the edge of the shoal where the minnows are playing. She knows that the young pupils are growing
discouraged, and that the time has come to hearten them. Chip, chip!--"watch, I'll show you,"
she whistles--Cheeeep! with a sharp up-slide at the end, which I soon grow to recognize as
the signal to strike. At the cry she sets her wings and shoots downward with strong, even plunge,
strikes a wave squarely as it rises, passes under it, and is out on the other side gripping
a big chub. The little ones follow her, whistling their delight, and telling her that perhaps
now they will go back to the nest and take a look at the fish before they go on with their
fishing. Which means, of course, that they will eat it and go to sleep perfectly satisfied
with the good fun of fishing; and then lessons are over for the day.

The mother, however, has other thoughts in her wise head. She knows that the little ones are
not yet tired, only hungry; and that there is much to teach them before the chub stop shoaling
and fishhawks must be off to the coast. She knows also that they have thus far missed the two
things she brought them out to learn: to take a fish always as he comes up; and to hit a wave
always on the front side, under the crest. Gripping her fish tightly, she bends in her slow
flight and paralyzes it by a single blow in the spine from her hooked beak. Then she drops
it back into the whitecaps, where, jumping to the top of my rock, I can see it occasionally
struggling near the surface.

Cheeeep! "try it now," she whistles.

Pip, pip! "here goes!" cries the little one who failed before; and down he drops, souse! going
clear under in his impatient hunger, forgetting precept and example and past experience.

Again the waves race over him; but there is a satisfied note in the mother's whistle which
tells me that she sees him, and that he is doing well. In a moment he is out again with a great
rush and sputter, gripping his fish and pip-pipping his exultation. Away he goes in low heavy
flight to the nest. The mother circles over him a moment to be sure he is not overloaded; then
she goes back with the other neophyte and ranges back and forth over the shoal's edge.

It is clear now to even my eyes that there is a vast difference in the characters of young
fishhawks. The first was eager, headstrong, impatient; the second is calmer, stronger, more
obedient. He watches the mother; he heeds her signals. Five minutes later he makes a clean,
beautiful swoop and comes up with his fish. The mother whistles her praise as she drops beside
him. My eyes follow them as, gossiping like two old cronies, they wing their slow way over
the dancing whitecaps and climb the slanting tree-tops to the nest.

The day's lessons are over now, and I go back to my bait-catching with a new admiration for
these winged members of the brotherhood. Perhaps there is also a bit of envy or regret in my
meditation as I tie on a new hook to replace the one that an uneasy eel is trying to rid himself
of, down in the mud. If I had only had some one to teach me like that, I should certainly now
be a better fisherman.

Next day, when the mother came up the lake to the shoal with her two little ones, there was
a surprise awaiting them. For half an hour I had been watching from the point to anticipate
their coming. There were some things that puzzled me, and that puzzle me still, in Ismaques'
fishing. If he caught his fish in his mouth, after the methods of loon and otter, I could understand
it better. But to catch a fish--whose dart is like lightning--under the water with his feet,
when, after his plunge, he can see neither his fish nor his feet, must require some puzzling
calculation. And I had set a trap in my head to find out how it is done.

When the fishermen hove into sight, and their eager pipings came faintly up the lake ahead
of them, I paddled hastily out and turned loose a half-dozen chub in the shallow water. I had
kept them alive as long as possible in a big pail, and they still had life enough to fin about
near the surface. When the fishermen arrived I was sitting among the rocks as usual, and turned
to acknowledge the mother bird's Ch'wee? But my deep-laid scheme to find out their method accomplished
nothing; except, perhaps, to spoil the day's lesson. They saw my bait on the instant. One of
the youngsters dove headlong without poising, went under, missed his fish, rose, plunged again.
He got him that time and went away sputtering. The second took his time, came down on a long
swift slant, and got his fish without going under. Almost before the lesson began it was over.
The mother circled about for a few moments in a puzzled sort of way, watching the young fishermen
flapping up the slope to their nest. Something was wrong. She had fished enough to know that
success means something more than good luck; and this morning success had come too easily.
She wheeled slowly over the shallows, noting the fish there, where they plainly did not belong,
and dropping to examine with suspicion one big chub that was floating, belly up, on the water.
Then she went under with a rush, where I could not see, came out again with a fish for herself,
and followed her little ones to the nest.

Next day I set the trap again in the same way. But the mother, with her lesson well laid out
before her, remembered yesterday's unearned success and came over to investigate, leaving her
young ones circling along the farther shore. There were the fish again, in shallow water; and
there--too easy altogether!--were two dead ones floating among the whitecaps. She wheeled away
in a sharp turn, as if she had not seen anything, whistled her pupils up to her, and went on
to other fishing grounds.

Presently, above the next point, I heard their pipings and the sharp, up-sliding Cheeeep! which
was the mother's signal to swoop. Paddling up under the point in my canoe, I found them all
wheeling and diving over a shoal, where I knew the fish were smaller and more nimble, and where
there were lily pads for a haven of refuge, whither no hawk could follow them. Twenty times
I saw them swoop only to miss, while the mother circled above or beside them, whistling advice
and encouragement. And when at last they struck their fish and bore away towards the mountain,
there was an exultation in their lusty wing beats, and in the whistling cry they sent back
to me, which was not there the day before.

The mother followed them at a distance, veering in when near my shoal to take another look
at the fish there. Three were floating now instead of two; the others--what were left of them--struggled
feebly at the surface. Chip, ch'weee! she whistled disdainfully; "plenty fish here, but mighty
poor fishing." Then she swooped, passed under, came out with a big chub, and was gone, leaving
me only a blinding splash and a widening circle of laughing, dancing, tantalizing wavelets
to tell me how she catches them.

When You Meet a Bear

There are always two surprises when you meet a bear. You have one, and he has the other. On
your tramps and camps in the big woods you may be on the lookout for Mooween; you may be eager
and even anxious to meet him; but when you double the point or push into the blueberry patch
and, suddenly, there he is, blocking the path ahead, looking intently into your eyes to fathom
at a glance your intentions, then, I fancy, the experience is like that of people who have
the inquisitive habit of looking under their beds nightly for a burglar, and at last find him
there, stowed away snugly, just where they always expected him to be.

Mooween, on his part, is always looking for you when once he has learned that you have moved
into his woods. But not from any desire to see you! He is like a lazy man looking for work,
and hoping devoutly that he may not find it. A bear has very little curiosity--less than any
other of the wood folk. He loves to be alone; and so, when he goes hunting for you, to find
out just where you are, it is always with the creditable desire to leave you in as large a
room as possible, while he himself goes quietly away into deeper solitudes. As this desire
of his is much stronger than your mere idle curiosity to see something new, you rarely see
Mooween even where he is most at home. And that is but another bit of the poetic justice which
you stumble upon everywhere in the big woods.

It is more and more evident, I think, that Nature adapts her gifts, not simply to the necessities,
but more largely to the desires, of her creatures. The force and influence of that intense
desire--more intense because usually each animal has but one--we have not yet learned to measure.
The owl has a silent wing, not simply because he needs it--for his need is no greater than
that of the hawk, who has no silent wing--but, more probably, because of his whole-hearted
desire for silence as he glides through the silent twilight. And so with the panther's foot;
and so with the deer's eye, and the wolf's nose, whose one idea of bliss is a good smell; and
so with every other strongly marked gift which the wild things have won from nature, chiefly
by desiring it, in the long years of their development.

This theory may possibly account for some of Mooween's peculiarities. Nature, who measures
her gifts according to the desires of her creatures, remembers his love of peace and solitude,
and endows him accordingly. He cares little to see you or anybody else; therefore his eyes
are weak--his weakest point, in fact. He desires ardently to avoid your society and all society
but his own; therefore his nose and ears are marvelously alert to discover your coming. Often,
when you think yourself quite alone in the woods, Mooween is there. The wind has told your
story to his nose; the clatter of your heedless feet long ago reached his keen ears, and he
vanishes at your approach, leaving you to your noise and inquisitiveness and the other things
you like. His gifts of concealment are so much greater than your powers of detection that he
has absolutely no thought of ever seeing you. His surprise, therefore, when you do meet unexpectedly
is correspondingly greater than yours.

What he will do under the unusual circumstances depends largely, not upon himself, but upon
you. With one exception, his feelings are probably the reverse of your own. If you are bold,
he is timid as a rabbit; if you are panic-stricken, he knows exactly what to do; if you are
fearful, he has no fear; if you are inquisitive, he is instantly shy; and, like all other wild
creatures, he has an almost uncanny way of understanding your thought. It is as if, in that
intent, penetrating gaze of his, he saw your soul turned inside out for his inspection. The
only exception is when you meet him without fear or curiosity, with the desire simply to attend
to your own affairs, as if he were a stranger and an equal. That rare mental attitude he understands
perfectly--for is it not his own?--and he goes his way quietly, as if he had not seen you.

For every chance meeting Mooween seems to have a plan of action ready, which he applies without
a question or an instant's hesitation. Make an unknown sound behind him as he plods along the
shore, and he hurls himself headlong into the cover of the bushes, as if your voice had touched
a button that released a coiled spring beneath him. Afterwards he may come back to find out
what frightened him. Sit perfectly still, and he rises on his hind legs for a look and a long
sniff to find out who you are. Jump at him with a yell and a flourish the instant he appears,
and he will hurl chips and dirt back at you as he digs his toes into the hillside for a better
grip and scrambles away whimpering like a scared puppy.

Once in a way, as you steal through the autumn woods or hurry over the trail, you will hear
sudden loud rustlings and shakings on the hardwood ridge above you, as if a small cyclone were
perched there for a while, amusing itself among the leaves before blowing on. Then, if you
steal up toward the sound, you will find Mooween standing on a big limb of a beech tree, grasping
the narrowing trunk with his powerful forearms, tugging and pushing mightily to shake down
the ripe beechnuts. The rattle and dash of the falling fruit are such music to Mooween's ears
that he will not hear the rustle of your approach, nor the twig that snaps under your careless
foot.

If you cry aloud now to your friends, under the hilarious impression that you have Mooween
sure at last, there is another surprise awaiting you. And that suggests a bit of advice, which
is most pertinent: don't stand under the bear when you cry out. If he is a little fellow, he
will shoot up the tree, faster than ever a jumping jack went up his stick, and hide in a cluster
of leaves, as near the top as he can get. But if he is a big bear, he will tumble down on you
before you know what has happened. No slow climbing for him; he just lets go and comes down
by gravitation. As Uncle Remus says--who has some keen knowledge of animal ways under his story-telling
humor--"Brer B'ar, he scramble 'bout half-way down de bee tree, en den he turn eve'ything loose
en hit de groun' kerbiff! Look like 't wuz nuff ter jolt de life out'n 'im."

Somehow it never does jolt the life out of him, notwithstanding his great weight; nor does
it interfere in any way with his speed of action, which is like lightning, the instant he touches
the ground. Like the coon, who can fall from an incredible distance without hurting himself,
Mooween comes down perfectly limp, falling on himself like a great cushion; but the moment
he strikes, all his muscles seem to contract at once, and he bounds off like a rubber ball
into the densest bit of cover at hand.

Twice have I seen him come down in this way. The first time there were two cubs, nearly full-grown,
in a tree. One went up at our shout; the other came down with such startling suddenness that
the man who stood ready with his rifle, to shoot the bear, jumped for his life to get out of
the way; and before he had blinked the astonishment out of his eyes Mooween was gone, leaving
only a violent nodding of the ground spruces to tell what had become of him.

All these plans of ready action in Mooween's head, for the rare occasions when he meets you
unexpectedly, are the result of careful training by his mother. If you should ever have the
good fortune to watch a mother bear and her cubs when they have no idea that you are near them,
you will note two characteristic things. First, when they are traveling--and Mooween is the
most restless tramp in all the woods--you will see that the cubs follow the mother closely
and imitate her every action with ludicrous exactness, sniffing where she sniffs, jumping where
she jumps, rising on their hind legs, with forearms hanging loosely and pointed noses thrust
sharp up into the wind, on the instant that she rises, and then drawing silently away from
the shore into the shelter of the friendly alders when some subtle warning tells the mother's
nose that the coast ahead is not perfectly clear. So they learn to sift the sounds and smells
of the wilderness, and to govern their actions accordingly. And second, when they are playing
you will see that the mother watches the cubs' every action as keenly as they watched hers
an hour ago. She will sit flat on her haunches, her fore paws planted between her outstretched
hind legs, her great head on one side, noting every detail of their boxing and wrestling and
climbing, as if she had showed them once how it ought to be done and were watching now to see
how well they remembered their lessons. And now and then one or the other of the cubs receives
a sound cuffing; for which I am unable to account, except on the theory that he was doing something
contrary to his plain instructions.

It is only when Mooween meets some new object, or some circumstance entirely outside of his
training, that instinct and native wit are set to work; and then you see for the first time
some trace of hesitation on the part of this self-confident prowler of the big woods. Once
I startled him on the shore, whither he had come to get the fore quarters of a deer that had
been left there. He jumped for cover at the first alarm without even turning his head, just
as he had seen his mother do, a score of times, when he was a cub. Then he stopped, and for
three or four seconds considered the danger in plain sight--a thing I have never seen any other
bear imitate. He wavered for a moment more, doubtful whether my canoe were swifter than he
and more dangerous. Then satisfied that, at least, he had a good chance, he jumped back, grabbed
the deer, and dragged it away into the woods.

Another time I met him on a narrow path where he could not pass me and where he did not want
to turn back, for something ahead was calling him strongly. That short meeting furnished me
the best study in bear nature and bear instinct that I have ever been allowed to make. And,
at this distance, I have small desire to repeat the experience.

It was on the Little Sou'west Mirimichi, a very wild river, in the heart of the wilderness.
Just above my camp, not half a mile away, was a salmon pool that, so far as I know, had never
been fished. One bank of the river was an almost sheer cliff, against which the current fretted
and hissed in a strong deep rush to the rapids and a great silent pool far below. There were
salmon under the cliff, plenty of them, balancing themselves against the arrowy run of the
current; but, so far as my flies were concerned, they might as well have been in the Yukon.
One could not fish from the opposite shore--there was no room for a back cast, and the current
was too deep and swift for wading--and on the shore where the salmon were there was no place
to stand. If I had had a couple of good Indians, I might have dropped down to the head of the
swift water and fished, while they held the canoe with poles braced on the bottom; but I had
no two good Indians, and the one I did have was unwilling to take the risk. So we went hungry,
almost within sight and sound of the plunge of heavy fish, fresh run from the sea.

One day, in following a porcupine to see where he was going, I found a narrow path running
for a few hundred yards along the side of the cliff, just over where the salmon loved to lie,
and not more than thirty feet above the swift rush of water. I went there with my rod and,
without attempting to cast, dropped my fly into the current and paid out from my reel. When
the line straightened I raised the rod's tip and set my fly dancing and skittering across the
surface to an eddy behind a great rock. In a flash I had raised and struck a twenty-five pound
fish; and in another flash he had gone straight downstream in the current, where from my precarious
seat I could not control him. Down he went, leaping wildly high out of water, in a glorious
rush, till all my line buzzed out of the reel, down to the very knot at the bottom, and the
leader snapped as if it had been made of spider's web.

I reeled in sadly, debating with myself the unanswerable question of how I should ever have
reached down thirty feet to gaff my salmon, had I played him to a standstill. Then, because
human nature is weak, I put on a stronger, double leader and dropped another fly into the current.
I might not get my salmon; but it was worth the price of fly and leader just to raise him from
the deeps and see his terrific rush downstream, jumping, jumping, as if the witch of Endor
were astride of his tail in lieu of her broomstick.

A lively young grilse plunged headlong at the second fly and, thanks to my strong leader, I
played him out in the current and led him listlessly, all the jump and fight gone out of him,
to the foot of the cliff. There was no apparent way to get down; so, taking my line in hand,
I began to lift him bodily up. He came easily enough till his tail cleared the water; then
the wiggling, jerky strain was too much. The fly pulled out, and he vanished with a final swirl
and slap of his broad tail to tell me how big he was.

Just below me a bowlder lifted its head and shoulders out of the swirling current. With the
canoe line I might easily let myself down to that rock and make sure of my next fish. Getting
back would be harder; but salmon are worth some trouble; so I left my rod and started back
to camp for the stout rope that lay coiled in the bow of my canoe. And what was the poor deteriorated Pepeta!

...

A booming voice came down like thunder tomboy through the gap in the ladder.

- Elisa! ... Upload milk soon.

The Lord is waiting.

Rosario began to laugh herself. Now called Elisa: Do not you know? Age requirement rename office
and speak with an Andalusian accent.

And mimicked with rustic grace the voice of the invisible tomboy.

But in spite of his joy, was quick to withdraw. He feared the above.

The booming voice or The Lord of the milk could give something bad for his delay. He climbed the
ladder faster, After much to recommend Pepeta that ever pass through there, to remember together
the things from the garden.

The weary bell rang de la Rocha over an hour through the streets of Valencia. Released the withered
teats to milk the last drop of tasteless product of a poor grass
leaves cabbage and waste, and finally undertook Pepeta back to his
hut.

The poor peasant walking sad and pensive under the impression that meeting. Remembered like it was
the day before the terrible tragedy that engulfed the Barret with whole family.

Since then, the fields over a hundred years ago the ancestors of the
poor working labrador had been left by the wayside.

His cabin, deserted, without a hand merciful to cast a patch to the roof and a handful of mud
cracks walls, was sinking slowly.

Ten years of continuous flow together had managed to ruin that people do not take notice already
on it. Pepeta it had long had not stopped his attention to the old shack. This interest only
to the boys, who, inheriting the hatred of his parents, he plunged into between the nettles
of the barren fields to mow the abandoned house with stones, breaking the timbers of its closed door,
or blind with dirt and stones that opened well under a very old vines.

But this morning, Pepeta, influenced by his recent encounter, he noticed debris and to stopped
on the way for a better view.

The Barret fields, or rather for her, "the Jew and his unholy Don Salvador heirs "were a blur
of misery amid the fertile garden, worked and smiling. Ten years of neglect had hardened the
ground, drawing from its neglected innards all parasitic plants, all the thorns which God has created
for the punishment of the farmer. A dwarf jungle, tangled and misshapen spread over those fields,
with a wave of foreign shades of green, tinged here and there by
mysterious and rare flowers, the kind that only arise in the ruins
and cemeteries.

Under the foliage of the jungle tiny and encouraged by the safety of his lair, grew and multiplied
all sorts of nasty, spilling into neighboring fields: Rough-backed green lizards, giant beetles
with metallic shimmer shell, spiders short-legged and hairy, even snakes that glide immediate
ditches. There living in the heart of the beautiful and neat plain, forming separate world, devouring
one to others, and even cause harm to the neighbors, they were respected with a certain reverence,
for the seven plagues of Egypt seemed little to those of the garden to throw on those lands are
cursed.

As Barret lands would never be for men, were nesting in them bicharraco
disgusting, and the more the merrier.

In the middle of these desolate fields, which stood out on the beautiful
plain as a stain of dirt in a regal cloak of green velvet, rose the
cabin, or rather this, falling, with straw cap of gutted, teaching
through the openings pierced the wind rain and its rotten wooden ribbing.

The walls, scratched by water, showed their raw clay bricks, no more than a very slight white
spots that exposed the former whitewashed. The door was broken underneath, gnawed by rats, with
cracks that cut from one extreme to another. Two or three windows, completely open and martyred by gales,
hung from one hinge, and were to fall at any moment, just blow a rude gust of wind.

Sorry to ruin that mood, squeezing the heart. It seemed that the left were CASUCO to shut out
ghosts in the night, who were inside screaming to people from murdered, that the whole bush was
hiding under a shroud of it hundreds of corpses.

Horrific images was what inspired the contemplation of these abandoned fields, and highlighted
even more dismal misery when contrasted with the lands near, red, well maintained, correct full
of rows of vegetables and seedlings, to which was the autumn leaves
transparency caramel.

Even the birds fled from the fields of death, perhaps for fear of
the animaluchos that rebullían under brush or by sniffing the breath
of misfortune.

On the broken thatch, if anything could see was the fluttering of
black wings and treacherous funeral feathers of crows and kites, which
were shaken mute the laden trees of joyful and playful fluttering
PIID, remaining silent the garden, as if there were sparrows half-mile
radius.

Pepeta going to move forward, toward his white farmhouse, which peeked through the trees some fields
beyond, but had to lie still on the high side of the road, that he
should a cart loaded advancing stumbling and seemed to come from the
city.

Her feminine curiosity was excited to notice him.

He was a poor farm cart drawn by a bony old nag, which helped in hard bumps a tall man who was
walking next to him encouraging him with shouts and pops whiplash.

Labrador dressed, but how to wear the scarf round his head, his pants corduroy and other details
of his suit, which was not betrayed in the garden, where personal adornment has gradually been
contaminated by the taste of the city. Was a farmer in some remote village: kidney may come
from the province.

On the car amontonábanse, forming pyramid to higher than the poles, all kinds domestic objects.
Was the emigration of an entire family.

Consumptive mattresses, straw mattresses scandalous stuffed corn husk, esparto chairs, pans,
kettles, plates, baskets, bed green benches, all piled on the car, dirty, worn out, miserable,
smelling famine, to escape desperate, as if the march unfortunately
after nipping family heels.

At the top of this mess three children could be seen hugging, which provided the fields with
wide eyes, as explorers visiting a country for the first time.

On foot and behind the cart as watching for anything out of it fell, a woman and a marching girl,
tall, slim, slim, it seemed daughter. On the other side of the horse, helping when the vehicle
is stopped in a bad way, was a boy of eleven years.

Its exterior betrayed serious child, accustomed to struggle with poverty, is a man at the age others
play. A dirty little dog panting up the rear.

Pepeta, supported on the back of his cow, they looked forward, ever possessed the most curiosity.
"Where would these poor people?

The way that, tributary to Alboraya not going anywhere. Extinguished in the distance, and exhausted
by the myriad branching paths and trails that gave entrance to the barracks.

But his curiosity had an unexpected ending. Jesus!

The car left the road, crossing the dilapidated bridge of logs and earth which gave access to
the cursed land, and is got by Barret fields, flattening their tires
brush respected.

The family remained behind, saying with gestures and words confusing
the impression that caused him misery, but straight at the wrecked
cabin, and who takes possession of what is yours.

Pepeta not want to see more. Now I really ran to his hut. Anxious to arrive before left to the
cow and calf, and the two beasts continued their march calmly, as who does not care about things
outside the barn and has insurance.

Pimento was lying on one side of his hut, smoking lazily, staring at three sticks smeared with lime,
put in the sun, around which fluttered some birds.

Occupation was a master.

Upon seeing his wife come to the astonished eyes and poor chest heaving, Pimento changed positions
to hear better, recommending that does not approach the wands.

Let's see, what was that? Have you had stolen the cow? ...

Pepeta, with emotion and fatigue, could barely say two words together.

"The land of Barret .... An entire family .... Iban to work, to live
in the barracks. She I had seen.

"

Pimento, bird hunter with league foe of labor and terror of the contoured, could not impassive
gravity retain great man at such unexpected news.

- Recontracordóns! ...

Got a jump straight weighed and human muscles, and began to run without waiting for further explanation.

His
wife saw how he ran cross country to a bluff to the lands immediately cursed. There he knelt,
lay on his stomach to peer through the reeds like a Bedouin lurking, and after a few minutes
he returned to run, lost in this labyrinth of paths, each of which
led to a hut, to a field where men hunched by shone his hoe like a
flash of steel.

The garden was still smiling and murmuring, imbued with light and whispers, dormant under the
waterfall golden morning sun.

But voices sounded in the distance and appeals: the news was transmitted to belt out a field to
another field, and a shudder of alarm, surprise, indignation, ran through the whole plain, as if they
had spent centuries and circulate a notice that the beach had appeared an Algerian galley looking
white meat shipment.

II

When harvest time Barret watched the pictures of different crops that their lands were divided, could
not contain a sense of pride, and looking at the high wheat, cabbage-heart with his curly blonde,
green melon poking back to flower ground peppers and tomatoes, or half hidden by foliage, praised
the goodness of their fields and the efforts of all his predecessors
to work better than the rest of the garden.

All the blood of their grandparents was there. Five or six generations had passed Barrets their lives
tilling the same soil, turning upside down, medicine her womb with
burning manure, taking care that no decrease in their vital juice,
brushing and combing with the hoe and gate all those lumps, of which
there was not one that was not watered with the sweat and blood of
the family.

Many wanted the farmer to his wife, and even forgave him the folly
of having given four daughters and no sons to help him in his task,
not least he loved the four girls, one angels of God, who spent the
day singing and sewing at the door of the hut, and some Sometimes
they got into the fields to rest a little to his poor father, but
the supreme passion Uncle Barrett, the love of his love, were those
lands on which had passed monotonous and quiet of your family history.

Many years ago, many - in time the old Tomba, a nearly blind old man who kept the poor herd of a
butcher Alboraya, he traveled, heading del Fraile, shooting blunderbuss
against the French - these lands were among the religious of San Miguel
Kings, good gentlemen, fat, glossy, earthy, showing no big hurry in
the collection of rent, it being satisfied that afternoon, passing
through the cabin, I received the grandmother, who was then a real
girl, presenting us with deep gourds of chocolate and offerings of
fruit.

Before, long before, had been the owner of all that a great lord, who deposited their sins by dying
and farms within community, and now, alas! belonging to Don Salvador,
an old man in Valencia, which was the torment Uncle Barret, for even
in dreams appeared to him.

The poor farmer hid his troubles to his own family. He was a brave man, customs pure. On Sundays,
if I was a little tavern at the Copa, where he met all the people of contour, was to look to trick
players, to laugh like a blessed listening to the nonsense Pimento and other brutalities that were
acting cocky guys went from the garden, but never approached the counter to pay for a glass.
He always carried a pocket of his tight band on the stomach, and if he drank, was when one
of the greedy invited to all present.

Enemy to communicate their troubles, he was always seen smiling, good-natured, calm, taking pulled
down over his ears blue cap that justified his nickname.

I worked at night to night, when the whole garden was asleep, as he
was, to the uncertain clarity dawn, scratching their land, increasingly
convinced that he could with them.

It was too much for one man. If only I had a son ... Seeking help took servants who robbed him working
little and finally said goodbye to surprise sleeping in the barn in the sunshine.

Influenced by the respect to his ancestors, wanted burst of fatigue
on their lumps before to agree that some of them were transferred
on lease to foreign hands.

And not being able to with all the work, left unproductive and fallow half its fertile land,
claiming with the culture of the other supporting the family and pay the master.

This effort was a silent struggle, desperate, stubborn, against the
needs of life and against their own weakness.

Had but one wish: that the girls ignore their concerns, that nobody would account at the home of
the hardships and sorrows of the father not to disturb the holy joy that house, busy at all
hours by the laughter and songs of the four sisters, aged only one
year differed.

And while they, who were beginning to attract attention of the young men of the garden, attended
with new silk scarves, colorful, and ironed and noisy skirts to the feasts of the little towns,
or waking at dawn to go barefoot and shirt to look through the cracks in the wicket who were
singing them albaes [2] or presented with strumming the guitar, the poor guy Barret, increasingly
engaged in leveling its budget, drew, ounce after ounce whole bunch
of gold amassed farthing farthing on it his father had left him, shutting
and Don Salvador, old miser who never had enough, Not content with
squeezing, talking about how bad were the times, the scandalous increase
contributions and the need to raise the price of the lease.

[2] dawns.

Barrett could not have found worse master.

Enjoyed throughout the garden a nasty reputation because rare was the game where it had no land. Every
afternoon, wrapped in an old layer, which had until spring, looking squalid beggar, and accompanied
by curses and hostile gestures that left his back, was visiting the paths to the settlers. Was
the tenacity of the miser who wants to be in contact at all hours
with their properties, stickiness the usurer who always has to settle
outstanding accounts.

The dogs barked at him from afar, as death approaches, the children looked at him sulky, the
men were hiding to avoid painful excuses and the women came to the
door of the cabin with their eyes on the floor and lie on the point
to pray to Don Salvador to be patient, answering with tears and threats
to his snorts.

Pimento, who as the bully was interested in the misfortunes of his
neighbors and was the knight errant of the garden, promised to mumble
something like hitting a beating and cool off in a ditch, but the
very victims of greedy deterred him talking the importance of Don
Salvador, a man who spent his mornings in the courts and had friends
of many bells.

With people like the poor always lose.

In all of its settlers, the best was Barret: although at the expense of great efforts, all he
owed.

And the old man, who cited as a model to other tenants, when in front of him extreme cruelty,
was more demanding, excited by the gentleness of the farmer, glad to find a man who could satisfy
his instincts without fear of oppression and prey.

Increased, finally, the rental price of land. Barrett testified, and even cried recalling the
merits of his family who had lost his skin in those areas to of them the best in the garden.
But Don Salvador was adamant.

Were they the best? ... Should therefore pay more. And Barret paid the increase. The blood
would give him rather than abandon these land which gradually absorbed his life.

Had no money to bail out and only had what they produced in the fields.

And completely only, hiding the family's situation, having to smile when he was between his wife
and their daughters, who recommended he not tried so hard, gave poor
Barret to the most absurd folly of work.

Lost sleep. It seemed that their vegetables were growing less rapidly
than those of neighbors he just wanted to cultivate all the land,
worked at night to grope, the lower cloud of hail made him beside
himself, trembling with fear, and him, so kind, so honest, even advantage
of the carelessness of the farmers adjacent to steal some of irrigation.

If
your family was blind, in the slums surrounding the situation well
guessed Barrett pitying his meekness. It was a good fellow, did not
know "stand up" to the nasty miser and he was going to devour it slowly
sucking in full.

And so it was. The poor farmer, burdened by a life
of fever and dementia laborious stayed bones, bent like an octogenarian,
his eyes sunken. One characteristic hat justifying his nickname and
did not stop his ears, taking advantage of the growing thin, down
to the shoulders as a memorial apagaluz of its existence.

The worst
thing for him was that this unsustainable overtiredness only allowed
to pay half the insatiable ogre. The consequences of their folly by
the work did not wait. The Barret hack of an animal suffering that
followed in its desperate efforts tired of working day and night,
to go pulling the cart to load Valencia Market vegetables, and then
no time to breathe or headbands, be coupled to plow, took the game
to die rather than allow the slightest attempt at rebellion against
poor master.

So yes that was considered lost irretrievably poor farmer!
In desperation looked at their fields, who could no longer grow, the
rows of fresh vegetables, people city ​​consumed with indifference,
not knowing the anguish that their production does to suffer a poor
father ongoing battle with the land and misery.

But Providence, which
never abandons the poor, spoke by the mouth of Don Salvador. For something
say that God often brings good from evil.

The mean unbearable, the
greedy moneylender, knowing his misfortune offered to help with a
kindness paternal and moving. What needed to buy another beast? His head, with its bright yellow eye and long yellow beak
glistening in the morning light, veered and swung over his long neck like a gilded weather-vane
on a steeple. As the vane swung up the shore toward me I held my breath, so as to be perfectly
motionless, thinking I was hidden so well that no eye could find me at that distance. As it
swung past me slowly I chuckled, thinking that Quoskh was deceived. I forgot altogether that
a bird never sees straight ahead. When his bill had moved some thirty degrees off my nose,
just enough so as to bring his left eye to bear, it stopped swinging instantly.--He had seen
me at the first glance, and knew that I did not belong there.

For a long moment, while his keen eye seemed to look through and through me, he never moved
a muscle. One could easily have passed over him, thinking him only one of the gray, wave-washed
roots on the shore. Then he humped himself together, in that indescribably awkward way that
all herons have at the beginning of their flight, slanted heavily up to the highest tree on
the shore, and stopped for a longer period on a dead branch to look back at me. I had not moved
so much as an eyelid; nevertheless he saw me too plainly to trust me. Again he humped himself,
rose high over the tree-tops and bore away in strong, even, graceful flight for a lonelier
lake, where there was no man to watch or bother him.

Far from disappointing me, this keenness of Quoskh only whetted my appetite to know more about
him, and especially to watch him, close at hand, at his fishing. Near the head of the little
bay, where frogs were plenty, I built a screen of boughs under the low thick branches of a
spruce tree, and went away to watch other wood folk.

Next morning he did not come back; nor were there any fresh tracks of his on the shore. This
was my first intimation that Quoskh knows well the rule of good fishermen, and does not harry
a pool or a place too frequently, however good the fishing. The third morning he came back;
and again the sixth evening; and then the ninth morning, alternating with great regularity
as long as I kept tabs on him. At other times I would stumble upon him far afield, fishing
in other lakes and streams; or see him winging homeward, high over the woods, from waters far
beyond my ken; but these appearances were too irregular to count in a theory. I have no doubt,
however, that he fished the near-by waters with as great regularity as he fished the beaver
pond, and went wider afield only when he wanted a bit of variety, or bigger frogs, as all fishermen
do; or when he had poor luck in satisfying the clamorous appetite of his growing brood.

It was on the sixth afternoon that I had the best chance of studying his queer ways of fishing.
I was sitting in my little blind at the beaver pond, waiting for a deer, when Quoskh came striding
along the shore. He would swing his weather-vane head till he saw a frog ahead, then stalk
him slowly, deliberately, with immense caution; as if he knew as well as I how watchful the
frogs are at his approach, and how quickly they dive headlong for cover at the first glint
of his stilt-like legs. Nearer and nearer he would glide, standing motionless as a gray root
when he thought his game was watching him; then on again more cautiously, bending far forward
and drawing his neck back to the angle of greatest speed and power for a blow. A quick start,
a thrust like lightning--then you would see him shake his frog savagely, beat it upon the nearest
stone or root, glide to a tuft of grass, hide his catch cunningly, and go on unincumbered for
the next stalk, his weather-vane swinging, swinging in the ceaseless search for frogs, or possible
enemies.

If the swirl of a fish among the sedges caught his keen eye, he would change his tactics, letting
his game come to him instead of stalking it, as he did with the frogs. Whatever his position
was, both feet down or one foot raised for a stride, when the fish appeared, he never changed
it, knowing well that motion would only send his game hurriedly into deeper water. He would
stand sometimes for a half hour on one leg, letting his head sink slowly down on his shoulders,
his neck curled back, his long sharp bill pointing always straight at the quivering line which
marked the playing fish, his eyes half closed till the right moment came. Then you would see
his long neck shoot down, hear the splash and, later, the whack of his catch against the nearest
root, to kill it; and watch with curious feelings of sympathy as he hid it in the grass and
covered it over, lest Hawahak the hawk should see, or Cheokhes the mink smell it, and rob him
while he fished.

If he were near his last catch, he would stride back and hide the two together; if not, he
covered it over in the nearest good place and went on. No danger of his ever forgetting, however
numerous the catch! Whether he counts his frogs and fish, or simply remembers the different
hiding places, I have no means of knowing.

Sometimes, when I surprised him on a muddy shore and he flew away without taking even one of
his tidbits, I would follow his back track and uncover his hiding places to see what he had
caught. Frogs, fish, pollywogs, mussels, a baby muskrat,--they were all there, each hidden
cunningly under a bit of dried grass and mud. And once I went away and hid on the opposite
shore to see if he would come back. After an hour or more he appeared, looking first at my
tracks, then at all the shore with greater keenness than usual; then he went straight to three
different hiding places that I had found, and two more that I had not seen, and flew away to
his nest, a fringe of frogs and fish hanging at either side of his long bill as he went.

He had arranged them on the ground like the spokes of a wheel, as a fox does, heads all out
on either side, and one leg or the tail of each crossed in a common pile in the middle; so
that he could bite down over the crossed members and carry the greatest number of little frogs
and fish with the least likelihood of dropping any in his flight.

The mussels which he found were invariably, I think, eaten as his own particular tidbits; for
I never saw him attempt to carry them away, though once I found two or three where he had hidden
them. Generally he could crack their shells easily by blows of his powerful beak, or by whacking
them against a root; and so he had no need (and probably no knowledge) of the trick, which
every gull knows, of mounting up to a height with some obstinate hardshell and dropping it
on a rock to crack it.

If Quoskh were fishing for his own dinner, instead of for his hungry nestlings, he adopted
different tactics. For them he was a hunter, sly, silent, crafty, stalking his game by approved
still-hunting methods; for himself he was the true fisherman, quiet, observant, endlessly patient.
He seemed to know that for himself he could afford to take his time and be comfortable, knowing
that all things, especially fish, come to him who waits long enough; while for his little ones
he must hurry, else their croakings from too long fasting would surely bring hungry, unwelcome
prowlers to the big nest in the hemlock.

Once I saw him fishing in a peculiar way, which reminded me instantly of the chumming process
with which every mackerel fisherman on the coast is familiar. He caught a pollywog for bait,
with which he waded to a deep, cool place under a shady bank. There he whacked his pollywog
into small bits and tossed them into the water, where the chum speedily brought a shoal of
little fish to feed. Quoskh meanwhile stood in the shadow, where he would not be noticed, knee-deep
in water, his head drawn down into his shoulders, and a friendly leafy branch bending over
him to screen him from prying eyes. As a fish swam up to his chum he would spear it like lightning;
throw his head back and wriggle it head-first down his long neck; then settle down to watch
for the next one. And there he stayed, alternately watching and feasting, till he had enough;
when he drew his head farther down into his shoulders, shut his eyes, and went fast asleep
in the cool shadows,--a perfect picture of fishing indolence and satisfaction.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I went to the nest and hid myself in the underbrush to watch, day after day, I learned
more of Quoskh's fishing and hunting. The nest was in a great evergreen, in a gloomy swamp,--a
villainous place of bogs and treacherous footing, with here and there a little island of large
trees. On one of these islands a small colony of herons were nesting. During the day they trailed
far afield, scattering widely, each pair to its own particular fishing grounds; but when the
shadows grew long, and night prowlers stirred abroad, the herons came trailing back again,
making curious, wavy, graceful lines athwart the sunset glow, to croak and be sociable together,
and help each other watch the long night out.

Quoskh the Watchful--I could tell my great bird's mate by sight or hearing from all others,
either by her greater size or a peculiar double croak she had--had hidden her nest in the top
of a great green hemlock. Near by, in the high crotch of a dead tree, was another nest, which
she had built, evidently, years before and added to each successive spring, only to abandon
it at last for the evergreen. Both birds used to go to the old nest freely; and I have wondered
since if it were not a bit of great shrewdness on their part to leave it there in plain sight,
where any prowler might see and climb to it; while the young were securely hidden, meanwhile,
in the top of the near-by hemlock, where they could see without being seen. Only at a distance
could you find the nest. When under the hemlock, the mass of branches screened it perfectly,
and your attention was wholly taken by the other nest, standing out in bold relief in the dead
tree-top.

Such wisdom, if wisdom it were and not chance, is gained only by experience. It took at least
one brood of young herons, sacrificed to the appetite of lucivee or fisher, to teach Quoskh
the advantage of that decoy nest to tempt hungry prowlers upon the bare tree hole where she
could have a clear field to spear them with her powerful bill and beat them down with her great
wings before they should discover their mistake.

By watching the birds through my glass as they came to the young, I could generally tell what
kind of game was afoot for their following. Once a long snake hung from the mother bird's bill;
once it was a bird of some kind; twice she brought small animals, whose species I could not
make out in the brief moment of alighting on the nest's edge,--all these besides the regular
fare of fish and frogs, of which I took no account. And then, one day while I lay in my hiding,
I saw the mother heron slide swiftly down from the nest, make a sharp wheel over the lake,
and plunge into the fringe of berry bushes on the shore after some animal that her keen eyes
had caught moving. There was a swift rustling in the bushes, a blow of her wing to head off
a runaway, two or three lightning thrusts of her javelin beak; then she rose heavily, taking
a leveret with her; and I saw her pulling it to pieces awkwardly on the nest to feed her hungry
little ones.

It was partly to see these little herons, the thought of which had fascinated me ever since
I had seen Quoskh taking home what I thought, at first glance, was a rag doll for them to play
with, and partly to find out more of Quoskh's hunting habits by seeing what he brought home,
that led me at last to undertake the difficult task of climbing the huge tree to the nest.
One day when the mother had brought home some unknown small animal--a mink, I thought--I came
suddenly out of my hiding and crossed over to the nest. It had always fascinated me. Under
it, at twilight, I had heard the mother heron croaking softly to her little ones--a husky lullaby,
but sweet enough to them--and then, as I paddled away, I would see the nest dark against the
sunset with Mother Quoskh standing over it, a tall, graceful silhouette against the glory of
twilight, keeping sentinel watch over her little ones. Now I would solve the mystery of the
high nest by looking into it.

The mother, alarmed by my sudden appearance,--she had no idea that she had been watched,--shot
silently away, hoping I would not notice her home through the dense screen of branches. I climbed
up with difficulty; but not till I was within ten feet could I make out the mass of sticks
above me. The surroundings were getting filthy and evil-smelling by this time; for Quoskh teaches
the young herons to keep their nest perfectly clean by throwing all refuse over the sides of
the great home. A dozen times I had watched the mother birds of the colony push their little
ones to the edge of the nest to teach them this rule of cleanliness, so different from most
other birds.

As I hesitated about pushing through the filth-laden branches, something bright on the edge
of the nest caught my attention. It was a young heron's eye looking down at me over a long
bill, watching my approach with a keenness that was but thinly disguised by the half-drawn
eyelids. I had to go round the tree at this point for a standing on a larger branch; and when
I looked up, there was another eye watching down over another long bill. So, however I turned,
they watched me closely getting nearer and nearer, till I reached up my hand to touch the nest.
Then there was a harsh croak. Three long necks reached down suddenly over the edge of the nest
on the side where I was; three long bills opened wide just over my head; and three young herons
grew suddenly seasick, as if they had swallowed ipecac.

I never saw the inside of that home. At the moment I was in too much of a hurry to get down
and wash in the lake; and after that, so large were the young birds, so keen and powerful the
beaks, that no man or beast might expect to look over the edge of the nest, with hands or paws
engaged in holding on, and keep his eyes for a single instant. It is more dangerous to climb
for young herons than for young eagles. A heron always strikes for the eye, and his blow means
blindness or death, unless you watch like a cat and ward it off.

When I saw the young again they were taking their first lessons. A dismal croaking in the tree-tops
attracted me, and I came over cautiously to see what my herons were doing. The young were standing
up on the big nest, stretching necks and wings, and croaking hungrily; while the mother stood
on a tree-top some distance away, showing them food and telling them plainly, in heron language,
to come and get it. They tried it after much coaxing and croaking; but their long, awkward
toes missed their hold upon the slender branch on which she was balancing delicately--just
as she expected it to happen. As they fell, flapping lustily, she shot down ahead of them and
led them in a long, curving slant to an open spot on the shore. There she fed them with the
morsels she held in her beak; brought more food from a tuft of grass where she had hidden it,
near at hand; praised them with gurgling croaks till they felt some confidence on their awkward
legs; then the whole family started up the shore on their first frogging expedition.

It was intensely interesting for a man who, as a small boy, had often gone a-frogging himself--to
catch big ones for a woodsy corn roast, or little ones for pickerel bait--to sit now on a bog
and watch the little herons try their luck. Mother Quoskh went ahead cautiously, searching
the lily pads; the young trailed behind her awkwardly, lifting their feet like a Shanghai rooster
and setting them down with a splash to scare every frog within hearing, exactly where the mother's
foot had rested a moment before. So they went on, the mother's head swinging like a weather-vane
to look far ahead, the little ones stretching their necks so as to peek by her on either side,
full of wonder at the new world, full of hunger for things that grew there, till a startled
young frog said K'tung! from behind a lily bud, where they did not see him, and dove headlong
into the mud, leaving a long, crinkly, brown trail to tell exactly how far he had gone.

A frog is like an ostrich. When he sees nothing, because his head is hidden, he thinks nothing
can see him. At the sudden alarm Mother Quoskh would stretch her neck, watching the frog's
flight; then turn her head so that her long bill pointed directly at the bump on the muddy
bottom, which marked the hiding place of Chigwooltz, and croak softly as a signal. At the sound
one of the young herons would hurry forward eagerly; follow his mother's bill, which remained
motionless, pointing all the while; twist his head till he saw the frog's back in the mud,
and then lunge at it like lightning. Generally he got his frog, and through your glass you
would see the unfortunate creature wriggling and kicking his way into Quoskh's yellow beak.
If the lunge missed, the mother's keen eye followed the frog's frantic rush through the mud,
with a longer trail this time behind him, till he hid again; whereupon she croaked the same
youngster up for another try, and then the whole family moved jerkily along, like a row of
boys on stilts, to the next clump of lily pads.

As the young grew older and stronger on their legs, I noticed the rudiments, at least, of a
curious habit of dancing, which seems to belong to most of our long-legged wading birds. Sometimes,
sitting quietly in my canoe, I would see the young birds sail down in a long slant to the shore.
Immediately on alighting, before they gave any thought to frogs or fish or carnal appetite,
they would hop up and down, balancing, swaying, spreading their wings, and hopping again round
about each other, as if bewitched. A few moments of this crazy performance, and then they would
stalk sedately along the shore, as if ashamed of their ungainly levity; but at any moment the
ecstasy might seize them and they would hop again, as if they simply could not help it. This
occurred generally towards evening, when the birds had fed full and were ready for play or
for stretching their broad wings in preparation for the long autumn flight.

Watching them, one evening, I remembered suddenly a curious scene that I had stumbled upon
when a boy. I had seen a great blue heron sail croaking, croaking, into an arm of the big pond
where I was catching bullpouts, and crept down through dense woods to find out what he was
croaking about. Instead of one, I found eight or ten of the great birds on an open shore, hopping
ecstatically through some kind of a crazy dance. A twig snapped as I crept nearer, and they
scattered in instant flight. It was September, and the instinct to flock and to migrate was
at work among them. When they came together for the first time some dim, old remembrance of
generations long gone by--the shreds of an ancient instinct, whose meaning we can only guess
at--had set them to dancing wildly; though I doubted at the time whether they understood much
what they were doing.

Perhaps I was wrong in this. Watching the young birds at their ungainly hopping, the impulse
to dance seemed uncontrollable; yet they were immensely dignified about it at times; and again
they appeared to get some fun out of it--as much, perhaps, as we do out of some of our peculiar
dances, of which a visiting Chinaman once asked innocently: "Why don't you let your servants
do it for you?"

I have seen little green herons do the same thing in the woods at mating time; and once, in
the Zoölogical Gardens at Antwerp, I saw a magnificent hopping performance by some giant cranes
from Africa. Our own sand-hill and whooping cranes are notorious dancers; and undoubtedly it
is more or less instinctive with all the tribes of the cranes and herons, from the least to
the greatest. But what the instinct means--unless, like our own dancing, it is a pure bit of
pleasure-making, as crows play games and loons swim races--nobody can tell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before the young were fully grown, and while yet they were following the mother to learn the
ways of frogging and fishing, a startling thing occurred which made me ever afterwards look
up to Quoskh with honest admiration. I was still-fishing in the middle of the big lake, one
late afternoon, when Quoskh and her little ones sailed over the trees from the beaver pond
and lit on a grassy shore. A shallow little brook stole into the lake there, and Mother Quoskh
left her young to frog for themselves, while she went fishing up the brook under the alders.
I was watching the young herons through my glass when I saw a sudden rush in the tall grass
near them. All three humped themselves, heron fashion, on the instant. Two got away safely;
the other had barely spread his wings when a black animal leaped out of the grass for his neck
and pulled him down, flapping and croaking desperately.

I pulled up my killick on the instant and paddled over to see what was going on, and what the
creature was that had leaped out of the grass. Before my paddle had swung a dozen strokes I
saw the alders by the brook open swiftly, and Mother Quoskh sailed out and drove like an arrow
straight at the struggling wing tips, which still flapped spasmodically above the grass. Almost
before her feet had dropped to a solid landing she struck two fierce, blinding, downward blows
of her great wings. Her neck curved back and shot straight out, driving the keen six-inch bill
before it, quicker than ever a Roman arm drove its javelin. Above the lap-lap of my canoe I
heard a savage cry of pain; the same black animal leaped up out of the tangled grass, snapping
for the neck; and a desperate battle began, with short gasping croaks and snarls that made
caution unnecessary as I sped over to see who the robber was, and how Quoskh was faring in
the good fight.

The canoe shot up behind a point where, looking over the low bank, I had the arena directly
under my eye. The animal was a fisher--black-cat the trappers call him--the most savage and
powerful fighter of his size in the whole world, I think. In the instant that I first saw him,
quicker than thought he had hurled himself twice at the towering bird's breast. Each time he
was met by a lightning blow in the face from Quoskh's stiffened wing. His teeth ground the
big quills to pulp; his claws tore them into shreds; but he got no grip in the feathery mass,
and he slipped, clawing and snarling, into the grass, only to spring again like a flash. Again
the stiff wing blow; but this time his jump was higher; one claw gripped the shoulder, tore
its way through flying feathers to the bone, while his weight dragged the big bird down. Then
Quoskh shortened her neck in a great curve. Like a snake it glided over the edge of her own
wing for two short, sharp down-thrusts of the deadly javelin--so quick that my eye caught only
the double yellow flash of it. With a sharp screech the black-cat leaped away and whirled towards
me blindly. One eye was gone; an angry red welt showed just over the other, telling how narrowly
the second thrust had missed its mark.

A shiver ran over me as I remembered how nearly I had once come myself to the black-cat's condition,
and from the same keen weapon. I was a small boy at the time, following a big, good-natured
hunter that I met in the woods, one day, from pure love of the wilds and for the glory of carrying
the game bag. He shot a great blue heron, which fell with a broken wing into some soft mud
and water grass. Carelessly he sent me to fetch it, not caring to wet his own feet. As I ran
up, the heron lay resting quietly, his neck drawn back, his long keen bill pointing always
straight at my face. I had never seen so big a bird before, and bent over him wondering at
his long bill, admiring his intensely bright eye.

I did not know then--what I have since learned well--that you can always tell when the rush
or spring or blow of any beast or bird--or of any man, for that matter--will surely come by
watching the eye closely. There is a fire that blazes in the eye before the blow comes, before
ever a muscle has stirred to do the brain's quick bidding. As I bent over, fascinated by the
keen, bright look of the wounded bird, and reached down my hand to pick him up, there was a
flash deep in the eye, like the glint of sunshine from a mirror, and I dodged instinctively.
Well for me that I did so. Something shot by my face like lightning, opening up a long red
gash across my left temple from eye-brow to ear. As I jumped I heard a careless laugh. "Look
out, Sonny, he may bite you--Gosh! what a close call!" And with a white, scared face, as he
saw the ugly wound that the heron's beak had opened, he dragged me away as if there had been
a bear in the water grass.

The black-cat had not yet received punishment enough. He is one of the largest of the weasel
family, and has a double measure of the weasel's savageness and tenacity. He darted about the
heron in a quick, nervous, jumping circle, looking for an opening behind; while Quoskh lifted
her great torn wings as a shield and turned slowly on the defensive, so as always to face the
danger. A dozen times the fisher jumped, filling the air with feathers; a dozen times the stiffened
wings struck down to intercept his spring, and every blow was followed by a swift javelin thrust.
Then, as the fisher crouched snarling in the grass, off his guard for an instant, I saw Mother
Quoskh take a sudden step forward, her first offensive move--just as I had seen her twenty
times at the finish of a frog stalk--and her bill shot down with the whole power of her long
neck behind it. A harsh screech of pain followed the swift blow; then the fisher wobbled away
with blind, uncertain jumps towards the shelter of the woods.

And now, with her savage enemy in full flight, a fierce, hot anger seemed to flare within the
mother heron, burning out all the previous cool, calculating defense. Her wings heaved aloft,
as the soldiers of old threw up their shields in the moment of victory; while her whole frame
seemed to swell with power, like a hero whose fight is won. She darted after the fisher, first
on the run, then with heavy wing beats, till she headed him and with savage blows of pinion
and beak drove him back, seeing nothing, guided only by fear and instinct, towards the water.
For five minutes more she chevied him hither and yon through the trampled grass, driving him
from water to bush and back again, jabbing him at every turn; till a rustle of leaves invited
him, and he dashed blindly into thick underbrush, where her broad wings could not follow. Then
with marvelous watchfulness she saw me standing near in my canoe; and without a thought, apparently,
for the young heron lying so still in the grass close beside her, she spread her torn wings
and flapped away heavily in the path of her more fortunate younglings.

I followed the fisher's trail into the woods and found him curled up in a hollow stump. He
made slight resistance as I pulled him out. All his ferocity was already lulled to sleep in
the vague, dreamy numbness which Nature always sends to her stricken creatures. He suffered
nothing, apparently, though he was fearfully wounded; he just wanted to be let alone. Both
eyes were gone, and there was nothing left for me except to finish mercifully what little Quoskh
had left undone.

When September came, and family cares were over, the colony beyond the beaver pond scattered
widely, returning each one to the shy, wild, solitary life that Quoskh likes best. Almost anywhere,
in the loneliest places, I might come upon a solitary heron stalking frogs, or chumming little
fish, or treading the soft mud expectantly, like a clam digger, to find where the mussels were
hidden by means of his long toes; or just standing still to enjoy the sleepy sunshine till
the late afternoon came, when he likes best to go abroad.

They slept no more on the big nest, standing like sentinels against the twilight glow and the
setting moon; but each one picked out a good spot on the shore and slept as best he could on
one leg, waiting for the early fishing. It was astonishing how carefully even the young birds
picked out a safe position. By day they would stand like statues in the shade of a bank or
among the tall grasses, where they were almost invisible by reason of their soft colors, and
wait for hours for fish and frogs to come to them. By night each one picked out a spot on the
clean open shore, off a point, generally, where he could see up and down, where there was no
grass to hide an enemy, and where the bushes on the bank were far enough away so that he could
hear the slight rustle of leaves before the creature that made it was within springing distance.
And there he would sleep safe through the long night, unless disturbed by my canoe or by some
other prowler. Herons see almost as well by night as by day, and their ears are keen as a weasel's;
so I could never get near enough to surprise them, however silently I paddled. I would hear
only a startled rush of wings, and then a questioning call as they sailed over me before winging
away to quieter beaches.

If I were jacking, with a light blazing brightly before me in my canoe, to see what night folk
I might surprise on the shore, Quoskh was the only one for whom my jack had no fascination.
Deer and moose, foxes and wild ducks, frogs and fish,--all seemed equally charmed by the great
wonder of a light shining silently out of the vast darkness. I saw them all, at different times,
and glided almost up to them before timidity drove them away from the strange bright marvel.
But Quoskh was not to be watched in that way, nor to be caught by any such trick. I would see
a vague form on the far edge of the light's pathway; catch the bright flash of either eye as
he swung his weather-vane head; then the vague form would slide into the upper darkness. A
moment's waiting; then, above me and behind, where the light did not dazzle his eyes, I would
hear his night cry--with more of anger than of questioning in it--and as I turned the jack
upward I would catch a single glimpse of his broad wings sailing over the lake. Nor would he
ever come back, like the fox on the bank, for a second look to be quite sure what I was.

When the bright, moonlit nights came, there was uneasiness in Quoskh's wild breast. The solitary
life that he loves best claimed him by day; but at night the old gregarious instinct drew him
again to his fellows. Once, when drifting over the beaver pond through the delicate witchery
of the moonlight, I heard five or six of the great birds croaking excitedly at the heronry,
which they had deserted weeks before. The lake, and especially the lonely little pond at the
end of the trail, was lovelier than ever before; but something in the south was calling him
away. I think that Quoskh was also moonstruck, as so many wild creatures are; for, instead
of sleeping quietly on the shore, he spent his time circling aimlessly over the lake and woods,
crying his name aloud, or calling wildly to his fellows.

At midnight of the day before I broke camp, I was out on the lake for a last paddle in the
moonlight. The night was perfect,--clear, cool, intensely still. Not a ripple broke the great
burnished surface of the lake; a silver pathway stretched away and away over the bow of my
gliding canoe, leading me on to where the great forest stood, silent, awake, expectant, and
flooded through all its dim, mysterious arches with marvelous light. The wilderness never sleeps.
If it grow silent, it is to listen. To-night the woods were tense as a waiting fox, watching
to see what new thing would come out of the lake, or what strange mystery would be born under
their own soft shadows.

Quoskh was abroad too, bewitched by the moonlight. I heard him calling and paddled down. He
knew me long before he was anything more to me than a voice of the night, and swept up to meet
me. For the first time after darkness fell I saw him--just a vague, gray shadow with edges
touched softly with silver light, which whirled once over my canoe and looked down into it.
Then he vanished; and from far over on the edge of the waiting woods, where the mystery was
deepest, came a cry, a challenge, a riddle, the night's wild question which no man has ever
yet answered--Quoskh? quoskh?

UNK WUNK THE PORCUPINE

A rustling in the brakes just outside my little tent roused me from a light slumber. There
it was again! the push of some heavy animal trying to move noiselessly through the tangle close
at hand; while from the old lumber camp in the midst of the clearing a low gnawing sound floated
up through the still night. I sat up quickly to listen; but at the slight movement all was
quiet again. The night prowlers had heard me and were on their guard.

One need have no fear of things that come round in the night. They are much shyer than you
are, and can see you better; so that, if you blunder towards them, they mistake your blindness
for courage, and take to their heels promptly. As I stepped out there was a double rush in
some bushes behind my tent, and by the light of a half-moon I caught one glimpse of a bear
and her cub jumping away for the shelter of the woods.

The gnawing still went on behind the old shanty by the river. "Another cub!" I thought--for
I was new to the big woods--and stole down to peek by the corner of the camp, in whose yard
I had pitched my tent the first night out in the wilderness.

There was an old molasses hogshead lying just beyond the log camp, its mouth looking black
as ink in the moonlight, and the scratching-gnawing sounds went on steadily within its shadow.
"He's inside," I thought with elation, "scraping off the crusted sugar. Now to catch him!"

I stole round the camp, so as to bring the closed end of the hogshead between me and the prize,
crept up breathlessly, and with a quick jerk hove the old tub up on end, trapping the creature
inside. There was a thump, a startled scratching and rustling, a violent rocking of the hogshead,
which I tried to hold down; then all was silent in the trap. "I've got him!" I thought, forgetting
all about the old she-bear, and shouted for Simmo to wake up and bring the ax.

We drove a ring of stakes close about the hogshead, weighted it down with heavy logs, and turned
in to sleep. In the morning, with cooler judgment, we decided that a bear cub was too troublesome
a pet to keep in a tent; so I stood by with a rifle while Simmo hove off the logs and cut the
stakes, keeping a wary eye on me, meanwhile, to see how far he might trust his life to my nerve
in case the cub should be big and troublesome; for an Indian takes no chances. A stake fell;
the hogshead toppled over by a push from within; Simmo sprang away with a yell; and out wobbled
a big porcupine, the biggest I ever saw, and tumbled away straight towards my tent. After him
went the Indian, making sweeping cuts at the stupid thing with his ax, and grunting his derision
at my bear cub.

Halfway to the tent Unk Wunk stumbled across a bit of pork rind, and stopped to nose it daintily.
I caught Simmo's arm and stayed the blow that would have made an end of my catch. Then, between
us, Unk Wunk sat up on his haunches, took the pork in his fore paws and sucked the salt out
of it, as if he had never a concern and never an enemy in the wide world. A half hour later
he loafed into my tent, where I sat repairing a favorite salmon fly that some hungry sea-trout
had torn to tatters, and drove me unceremoniously out of my own bailiwick in his search for
more salt.

Such a philosopher, whom no prison can dispossess of his peace of mind, and whom no danger
can deprive of his simple pleasures, deserves more consideration than the naturalists have
ever given him. I resolved on the spot to study him more carefully. As if to discourage all
such attempts and make himself a target for my rifle, he nearly spoiled my canoe the next night
by gnawing a hole through the bark and ribs for some suggestion of salt that only his greedy
nose could possibly have found.

Once I found him on the trail, some distance from camp, and, having nothing better to do, I
attempted to drive him home. My intention was to share hospitality; to give him a bit of bacon,
and then study him as I ate my own dinner. He turned at the first suggestion of being driven,
came straight at my legs, and by a vicious slap of his tail left some of his quills in me before
I could escape. Then I drove him in the opposite direction, whereupon he turned and bolted
past me; and when I arrived at camp he was busily engaged in gnawing the end from Simmo's ax
handle.

However you take him, Unk Wunk is one of the mysteries. He is a perpetual question scrawled
across the forest floor, which nobody pretends to answer; a problem that grows only more puzzling
as you study to solve it.

Of all the wild creatures he is the only one that has no intelligent fear of man, and that
never learns, either by instinct or experience, to avoid man's presence. He is everywhere in
the wilderness, until he changes what he would call his mind; and then he is nowhere, and you
cannot find him. He delights in solitude, and cares not for his own kind; yet now and then
you will stumble upon a whole convention of porcupines at the base of some rocky hill, each
one loafing around, rattling his quills, grunting his name Unk Wunk! Unk Wunk! and doing nothing
else all day long.

You meet him to-day, and he is timid as a rabbit; to-morrow he comes boldly into your tent
and drives you out, if you happen to be caught without a club handy. He never has anything
definite to do, nor any place to go to; yet stop him at any moment and he will risk his life
to go just a foot farther. Now try to drive or lead him another foot in the same direction,
and he will bolt back, as full of contrariness as two pigs on a road, and let himself be killed
rather than go where he was heading a moment before. He is perfectly harmless to every creature;
yet he lies still and kills the savage fisher that attacks him, or even the big Canada lynx,
that no other creature in the woods would dare to tackle.

Above all these puzzling contradictions is the prime question of how Nature ever produced such
a creature, and what she intended doing with him; for he seems to have no place nor use in
the natural economy of things. Recently the Maine legislature has passed a bill forbidding
the shooting of porcupines, on the curious ground that he is the only wild animal that can
easily be caught and killed without a gun; so that a man lost in the woods need not starve
to death but may feed on porcupine, as the Indians sometimes do. This is the only suggestion
thus far, from a purely utilitarian standpoint, that Unk Wunk is no mistake, but may have his uses.

Once, to test the law and to provide for possible future contingencies, I added Unk Wunk to
my bill of fare--a vile, malodorous suffix that might delight a lover of strong cheese. It
is undoubtedly a good law; but I cannot now imagine any one being grateful for it, unless the
stern alternative were death or porcupine.

The prowlers of the woods would eat him gladly enough, but that they are sternly forbidden.
They cannot even touch him without suffering the consequences. It would seem as if Nature,
when she made this block of stupidity in a world of wits, provided for him tenderly, as she
would for a half-witted or idiot child. He is the only wild creature for whom starvation has
no terrors. All the forest is his storehouse. Buds and tender shoots delight him in their season;
and when the cold becomes bitter in its intensity, and the snow packs deep, and all other creatures
grow gaunt and savage in their hunger, Unk Wunk has only to climb the nearest tree, chisel
off the rough, outer shell with his powerful teeth, and then feed full on the soft inner layer
of bark, which satisfies him perfectly and leaves him as fat as an alderman.

Of hungry beasts Unk Wunk has no fear whatever. Generally they let him severely alone, knowing
that to touch him would be more foolish than to mouth a sunfish or to bite a Peter-grunter.
If, driven by hunger in the killing March days, they approach him savagely, he simply rolls
up and lies still, protected by an armor that only a steel glove might safely explore, and
that has no joint anywhere visible to the keenest eye.

Now and then some cunning lynx or weasel, wise from experience but desperate with hunger, throws
himself flat on the ground, close by Unk Wunk, and works his nose cautiously under the terrible
bur, searching for the neck or the underside of the body, where there are no quills. One grip
of the powerful jaws, one taste of blood in the famished throat of the prowler--and that is
the end of both animals. For Unk Wunk has a weapon that no prowler of the woods ever calculates
upon. His broad, heavy tail is armed with hundreds of barbs, smaller but more deadly than those
on his back; and he swings this weapon with the vicious sweep of a rattlesnake. It is probably
this power of driving his barbs home by a lightning blow of his tail that has given rise to
the curious delusion that Unk Wunk can shoot his quills at a distance, as if he were filled
with compressed air--which is, of course, a harmless absurdity that keeps people from meddling
with him too closely.

Sometimes, when attacked, Unk Wunk covers his face with this weapon. More often he sticks his
head under a root or into a hollow log, leaving his tail out ready for action. At the first
touch of his enemy the tail snaps right and left quicker than thought, driving the hostile
head and sides full of the deadly quills, from which there is no escape; for every effort,
every rub and writhe of pain, only drives them deeper and deeper, till they rest in heart or
brain and finish their work.

Mooween the bear is the only one of the wood folk who has learned the trick of attacking Unk
Wunk without injury to himself. If, when very hungry, he finds a porcupine, he never attacks
him directly,--he knows too well the deadly sting of the barbs for that,--but bothers and irritates
the porcupine by flipping earth at him, until at last Unk Wunk rolls all his quills outward
and lies still. Then Mooween, with immense caution, slides one paw under him and with a quick
flip hurls him against the nearest tree, and knocks the life out of him.

If he find Unk Wunk in a tree, he will sometimes climb after him and, standing as near as the
upper limbs allow, will push and tug mightily to shake him off. That is usually a vain attempt;
for the creature that sleeps sound and secure through a gale in the tree-tops has no concern
for the ponderous shakings of a bear. In that case Mooween, if he can get near enough without
risking a fall from too delicate branches, will wrench off the limb on which Unk Wunk is sleeping
and throw it to the ground. That also is usually a vain proceeding; for before Mooween can
scramble down after his game, Unk Wunk is already up another tree and sleeping, as if nothing
had happened, on another branch.

Other prowlers, with less strength and cunning than Mooween, fare badly when driven by famine
to attack this useless creature of the woods, for whom Nature nevertheless cares so tenderly.
Trappers have told me that in the late winter, when hunger is sharpest, they sometimes catch
a wild-cat or lynx or fisher in their traps with his mouth and sides full of porcupine quills,
showing to what straits he had been driven for food. These rare trapped animals are but an
indication of many a silent struggle that only the trees and stars are witnesses of; and the
trapper's deadfall, with its quick, sure blow, is only a merciful ending to what else had been
a long, slow, painful trail, ending at last under a hemlock tip with the snow for a covering.

Last summer, in a little glade in the wilderness, I found two skeletons, one of a porcupine,
the other of a large lynx, lying side by side. In the latter three quills lay where the throat
had once been; the shaft of another stood firmly out of an empty eye orbit; a dozen more lay
about in such a way that one could not tell by what path they had entered the body. It needed
no great help of imagination to read the story here of a starving lynx, too famished to remember
caution, and of a dinner that cost a life.

Once also I saw a curious bit of animal education in connection with Unk Wunk. Two young owls
had begun hunting, under direction of the mother bird, along the foot of a ridge in the early
twilight. From my canoe I saw one of the young birds swoop downward at something in the bushes
on the shore. An instant later the big mother owl followed with a sharp, angry hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo!
of warning. The youngster dropped into the bushes; but the mother fairly knocked him away from
his game in her fierce rush, and led him away silently into the woods. I went over on the instant,
and found a young porcupine in the bushes where the owl had swooped, while two more were eating
lily stems farther along the shore.

Evidently Kookooskoos, who swoops by instinct at everything that moves, must be taught by wiser
heads the wisdom of letting certain things severely alone.

That he needs this lesson was clearly shown by an owl that my friend once shot at twilight.
There was a porcupine quill imbedded for nearly its entire length in his leg. Two more were
slowly working their way into his body; and the shaft of another projected from the corner
of his mouth like a toothpick. Whether he were a young owl and untaught, or whether, driven
by hunger, he had thrown counsel to the winds and swooped at Unk Wunk, will never be known.
That he should attack so large an animal as the porcupine would seem to indicate that, like
the lynx, hunger had probably driven him beyond all consideration for his mother's teaching.

Unk Wunk, on his part, knows so very little that it may fairly be doubted whether he ever had
the discipline of the school of the woods. Whether he rolls himself into a chestnut bur by
instinct, as the possum plays dead, or whether that is a matter of slow learning is yet to
be discovered. Whether his dense stupidity, Which disarms his enemies and brings him safe out
of a hundred dangers where wits would fail, is, like the possum's blank idiocy, only a mask
for the deepest wisdom; or whether he is quite as stupid as he acts and looks, is also a question.

More and more I incline to the former possibility. He has learned unconsciously the strength
of lying still. A thousand generations of fat and healthy porcupines have taught him the folly
of trouble and rush and worry in a world that somebody else has planned, and for which somebody
else is plainly responsible. So he makes no effort and lives in profound peace. But this also
leaves you with a question which may take you overseas to explore Hindu philosophy. Indeed,
if you have one question when you meet Unk Wunk for the first time, you will have twenty after
you have studied him for a season or two. His paragraph in the woods' journal begins and ends
with a question mark, and a dash for what is left unsaid.

The only indication of deliberate plan and effort that I have ever noted in Unk Wunk was in
regard to teaching two young ones the simple art of swimming,--which porcupines, by the way,
rarely use, and for which there seems to be no necessity. I was drifting along the shore in
my canoe when I noticed a mother porcupine and two little ones, a prickly pair indeed, on a
log that reached out into the lake. She had brought them there to make her task of weaning
them more easy by giving them a taste of lily buds. When they had gathered and eaten all the
buds and stems that they could reach, she deliberately pushed both little ones into the water.
When they attempted to scramble back she pushed them off again, and dropped in beside them
and led them to a log farther down the shore, where there were more lily pads.

The numerous hollow quills floated them high in the water, like so many corks, and they paddled
off with less effort than any other young animals that I have ever seen in the water. But whether
this were a swimming lesson, or a rude direction to shift and browse for themselves, is still
a question. With the exception of one solitary old genius, who had an astonishing way of amusing
himself and scaring all the other wood folk, this was the only plain bit of fore-thought and
sweet reasonableness that I have ever found in a porcupine.

A LAZY FELLOW'S FUN

A new sound, a purring rustle of leaves, stopped me instantly as I climbed the beech ridge,
one late afternoon, to see what wood folk I might surprise feeding on the rich mast. Pr-r-r-r-ush,
pr-r-r-r-ush! a curious combination of the rustling of squirrels' feet and the soft, crackling
purr of an eagle's wings, growing nearer, clearer every instant. I slipped quietly behind the
nearest tree to watch and listen.

Something was coming down the hill; but what? It was not an animal running. No animal that
I knew, unless he had gone suddenly crazy, would ever make such a racket to tell everybody
where he was. It was not squirrels playing, nor grouse scratching among the new-fallen leaves.
Their alternate rustlings and silences are unmistakable. It was not a bear shaking down the
ripe beechnuts--not heavy enough for that, yet too heavy for the feet of any prowler of the
woods to make on his stealthy hunting. Pr-r-r-r-ush, swish! thump! Something struck the stem
of a bush heavily and brought down a rustling shower of leaves; then out from under the low
branches rolled something that I had never seen before,--a heavy, grayish ball, as big as a
half-bushel basket, so covered over with leaves that one could not tell what was inside. It
was as if some one had covered a big kettle with glue and sent it rolling down the hill, picking
up dead leaves as it went. So the queer thing tumbled past my feet, purring, crackling, growing
bigger and more ragged every moment as it gathered up more leaves, till it reached the bottom
of a sharp pitch and lay still.

I stole after it cautiously. Suddenly it moved, unrolled itself. Then out of the ragged mass
came a big porcupine. He shook himself, stretched, wobbled around a moment, as if his long
roll had made him dizzy; then he meandered aimlessly along the foot of the ridge, his quills
stuck full of dead leaves, looking big and strange enough to frighten anything that might meet
him in the woods.

Here was a new trick, a new problem concerning one of the stupidest of all the wood folk. When
you meet a porcupine and bother him, he usually rolls himself into a huge pincushion with all
its points outward, covers his face with his thorny tail, and lies still, knowing well that
you cannot touch him anywhere without getting the worst of it. Now had he been bothered by
some animal and rolled himself up where it was so steep that he lost his balance, and so tumbled
unwillingly down the long hill; or, with his stomach full of sweet beechnuts, had he rolled
down lazily to avoid the trouble of walking; or is Unk Wunk brighter than he looks to discover
the joy of roller coasting and the fun of feeling dizzy afterwards?

There was nothing on the hill above, no rustle or suggestion of any hunting animal to answer
the question; so I followed Unk Wunk on his aimless wanderings along the foot of the ridge.

A slight movement far ahead caught my eye, and I saw a hare gliding and dodging among the brown
ferns. He came slowly in our direction, hopping and halting and wiggling his nose at every
bush, till he heard our approach and rose on his hind legs to listen. He gave a great jump
as Unk Wunk hove into sight, covered all over with the dead leaves that his barbed quills had
picked up on his way downhill, and lay quiet where he thought the ferns would hide him.

The procession drew nearer. Moktaques, full of curiosity, lifted his head cautiously out of
the ferns and sat up straight on his haunches again, his paws crossed, his eyes shining in
fear and curiosity at the strange animal rustling along and taking the leaves with him. For
a moment wonder held him as still as the stump beside him; then he bolted into the bush in
a series of high, scared jumps, and I heard him scurrying crazily in a half circle around us.

Unk Wunk gave no heed to the interruption, but yew-yawed hither and yon after his stupid nose.
Like every other porcupine that I have followed, he seemed to have nothing whatever to do,
and nowhere in the wide world to go. He loafed along lazily, too full to eat any of the beechnuts
that he nosed daintily out of the leaves. He tried a bit of bark here and there, only to spit
it out again. Once he started up the hill; but it was too steep for a lazy fellow with a full
stomach. Again he tried it; but it was not steep enough to roll down afterwards. Suddenly he
turned and came back to see who it was that followed him about.

I kept very quiet, and he brushed two or three times past my legs, eyeing me sleepily. Then
he took to nosing a beechnut from under my foot, as if I were no more interesting than Alexander
was to Diogenes.

I had never made friends with a porcupine,--he is too briery a fellow for intimacies,--but
now with a small stick I began to search him gently, wondering if, under all that armor of
spears and brambles, I might not find a place where it would please him to be scratched. At
the first touch he rolled himself together, all his spears sticking straight out on every side,
like a huge chestnut bur. One could not touch him anywhere without being pierced by a dozen
barbs. Gradually, however, as the stick touched him gently and searched out the itching spots
under his armor, he unrolled himself and put his nose under my foot again. He did not want
the beechnut; but he did want to nose it out. Unk Wunk is like a pig. He has very few things
to do besides eating; but when he does start to go anywhere or do anything he always does it.
Then I bent down to touch him with my hand.

That was a mistake. He felt the difference in the touch instantly. Also he smelled the salt
in my hand, for a taste of which Unk Wunk will put aside all his laziness and walk a mile,
if need be. He tried to grasp the hand, first with his paws, then with his mouth; but I had
too much fear of his great cutting teeth to let him succeed. Instead I touched him behind the
ears, feeling my way gingerly through the thick tangle of spines, testing them cautiously to
see how easily they would pull out.

The quills were very loosely set in, and every arrowheaded barb was as sharp as a needle. Anything
that pressed against them roughly would surely be pierced; the spines would pull out of the
skin, and work their way rapidly into the unfortunate hand or paw or nose that touched them. Came to call him a thief because he refused to return his
gun. He had no friends, all were ungrateful, greedy equal to Don Salvador. I did not want sleeping
there: he was drowning. And looking in the bag of tools, picked up a sickle, crossed in his belt and
left the house without Pimento attempt to stop the pass.

At such times nothing bad could make the old man who slept in the
open, if that was your choice.

Y the bully, closing the cabin, bed.

The Barret went straight to their fields and as a stray dog, he began to laps around the block.

Closed! ... Closed forever!

Those walls had risen of his grandfather and renewed it every year. Even in the darkness stood
out the white with crisp whitewash her girls covered them three months earlier.

The corral, the barn, pens, were the work of his father, and that cap of straw, as high, so slender,
with two small crosses at the ends, had raised him again replacing the old, which was water
everywhere.

And his handiwork was also the edge of the well, the pillars of the arbor, weirs, above which
showed their plumes of flowers and carnations dompedro.

What everything was going to be owned by another, because, because they wanted the men? ...

He
reached into his belt matches the strip of cardboard that served
to light their cigars.

Wanted set fire to the straw roof. That takes all the devil! At last it was his, God well
knew, and could destroy your finances before you see it in the hands
of thieves.

But to go and burn down their old house felt a sense of horror, as if he were to he bodies of
all his ancestors, and threw the match down.

Continued to rage in his mind the desire for destruction, and got to meet her sickle in hand in
those fields that had been their tormentors.

Now the land would pay all together unpleasant because of their misfortunes!

Devastation

lasted for hours. Derrumbáronse to kick the vaults of rods for which climbed the green strands of
green beans and peas, beans fell items by the furious sickle, and rows of lettuces and cabbages
distance jumped sharp pulse steel, such as severed heads, spreading
in sheets around her hair .... No one would take advantage of your
work!

And so it remained until near dawn, cutting, crushing with crazy kicking, swearing loudly,
roaring curses, until exhaustion finally calmed his anger, and threw in a groove like a child
crying, thinking that the earth would henceforth be her bed eternal and only work begging on
the roads.

He was awakened by the first rays of the sun hurting your eyes and the happy chatter of birds
jumping around his head, drawing his lunch the remains of the destruction night.

He got up, numbed by fatigue and humidity. Pimento and his wife called him from further, inviting
him to take something. Barret answered them with contempt. "Thief! After who had remained with
his gun !...» and began the way to Valencia, trembling cold, not knowing where he went.

As he passed the tavern Cup, went into it.

Some roads in the neighborhood spoke to him to pity his misfortune, inviting him to drink, and
he hastened to accept. Wanted something about that cold that he had
gotten into the bones.

And he, as sober, he drank one after another two glasses of brandy, which fell like waves of
fire in his stomach weary.

His face colored, becoming then a deathly pallor, her eyes vetearon
blood.

The road was pitied him expressive and confident, almost as an be happy. I called my children,
assuring them that did not hurry for so little. I had not lost everything. He still had the best
of the house, the sickle of his grandfather, a gem that did not want to change or for fifty
bushels of good land.

And he drew from his girdle the curved steel, pure and bright: a tool for fine tuning and cutting
very subtle, that he said Barrett was in the air from a cigarette
paper.

Paid the road, and driving their beasts alejáronse to the city, filling the road of squeaky wheels.

The
old man was still more than an hour in the bar, talking to himself,
noting that the head it was, until, disturbed by the harsh gaze of
the owners, who guessed his condition, felt a vague impression of
shame and left without saying goodbye, walk unsteadily.

I could not take your memory a tenacious memory. I saw with my eyes closed a large vegetable garden orange
that was more than an hour away from Benimaclet and sea. There was left him many times in their
affairs, and he was now, to see if the devil was so good did you
encounter with the master, which was rare day not inspect your eyes
miser the beautiful trees one by one, as if he counted the oranges.

Came after two hours of walking, stopping many times to his body poise, that is balanced on the
legs unsafe.

Spirit had seized him. Did not know what purpose it got there, so far from the part of the garden
where they lived theirs, and eventually drop into a field hemp to the roadside. Soon his drunken
snores sounded painful between the green and upright stems.

When he awoke it was already late afternoon. I felt heaviness in the head and stomach weary. Ears
tingled, and her mouth pasted perceived taste horrible. What was there near the garden of the Jew? What
had gone so far? His honesty made him ashamed primitive of this degradation, and tried to stand
to flee. The pressure produced on its sickle stomach cross belt gave him chills.

By joining stuck his head between hemp and saw a turn of the road
to an old man I walked slowly, wrapped in a layer.

Barret felt all his blood was up at once to the head, which reappeared
his drunkenness, and sat up, pulling the scythe .... And yet say the
devil is not good?

There was her man, the same he wanted to see from the previous day.

The old usurer had hesitated long before leaving home. Something stung him Uncle Barret, the event
was recent and the garden is treacherous.

But the fear in drawing its absence in the orange grove was stronger
than their fears, and thinking that the farm was away from the shed
attached, stood in the road.

And stood to contemplate his garden, and laughed at the fear last
jump of the bed when he saw Barrett himself hemp, and it seemed a
huge demon, red face, arms outstretched, preventing any leakage, cornered
at the edge of the ditch that ran parallel to the road.

Believed to dream; crashed his teeth, his face green stood and dropped his coat, revealing a dirty
old coat and rolled up to his neck scarves. So great was his terror and confusion, until he spoke
in Castilian.

- Barret!

My son - he gasped -. Everything was a joke, never mind. What happened yesterday was to make it
a little scared ... nothing more. You're going to continue on the land .... Spend morning at
home ... talk. Pay me as you see fit.

And bend your body, keeping you close the Barret. Intended to drain, run away the terrible scythe,
whose blade broke a ray of sunshine and blue skies reproduced. As was the ditch behind him, could
not find room to move, and threw the body behind seeks to cover the
clasped hands.

The farmer smiled like a hyena, showing his sharp teeth and poor whites.

- Liar! Liar! - Answered with a voice like a snore.

And moving the tool from side to side, seeking to wound site, preventing
thin hands and desperate to be put forward.

- But Barret!

My son! What is this? ... Put that gun ... do not play .... You are a man honest ... think of your
daughters. I repeat that was a joke. Come tomorrow and I will make the call .... Oooh! ...

It was a horrible roar, a cry of wounded beast. Sickle tired of obstacles, had shot down one stroke
of the clenched hands.

Hung from the tendons and skin, and red blood stump threw hard, splashing to Barret, who roared
to receive in the face of the hot spray.

Faltered the old man on his legs, but before falling to the ground,
horizontally split sickle against his neck, y. ..

Bang! complicated cutting sheath tissues, opened a deep cleft separating
the head near the trunk.

Don Salvador fell in the ditch, his legs were in the ditch, blown
by a kick slaughtered beef funeral.

Meanwhile, head buried in the mud, let go of all its blood in the
deep gap and water stained red, following its course with a gentle
placid murmur glad the solemn silence of the afternoon.

Barrett remained planted on the bank like an idiot. Much blood was the guy thief! The canal,
the red, seemed more mighty. Suddenly, the farmer, dominated by terror,
began to run, as if afraid that the stream of blood drown the overflow.

Before

ending the day the news spread like a cannon shot that shook the entire valley. Have you seen
hypocritical gesture, the glad silence with a town that hosts the
ruler's death you press?

... So cried the garden of Don Salvador's disappearance.

Everyone guessed the Barret's hand, and nobody spoke. The barracks had opened for him his last hiding;
women would have hidden under their skirts.

But the murderer wandered like a madman through the garden, avoiding people, lying behind of the
slopes, crouching under the bridges, escaping across the fields, frightened by the barking of
dogs, until the day after the Civil Guard found him sleeping in a
haystack.

For six months only spoke in the garden of Barret.

Sunday went like a pilgrimage for men and women to prison in Valencia to watch through the bars
to the poor "liberator" increasingly gaunt, with sunken eyes and
look worried.

Came the view of the process, and sentenced him to death.

The news made a deep impression on the plain, cures and mayors moving
they stood for avoid such a shame .... District One sitting on the
scaffold!

As Barrett had been always docile, voting as the chief and ordered that passively obeying sent,
there were trips to Madrid for his life, and the pardon was timely.

The farmer left the jail made a mummy, and was taken to prison in
Ceuta, for to die there a few years.

Disolvióse his family, disappeared as a handful of straw in the wind.

Daughters, one after another, were leaving the families that had been collected and moved to
Valencia to earn a living as maids, and the poor old, tired to bother
with disease, left the hospital, dying shortly afterwards.

The people of the garden, with the ease with which all the world to forget the misery of others,
barely remembered now and again the terrible tragedy of Barret, wondering
what would be their daughters.

But nobody forgot the camps and barracks, remaining one and another in the same state the day when justice
drove the unfortunate settler.

Was this a tacit agreement of all the garden, a plot instinctive, in the preparation barely
saying a word, but even the trees and the roads seemed to get into
it.

Pimento had said the day of the disaster.

"To see who was the handsome dare to get into that land! "

And all the people of the garden, even the women and children, seemed
to answer with their eyes of mutual understanding, "Yes, to see."

Parasitic plants, thistles, began to emerge from the cursed land that Barret was kicked and
stabbed with a sickle on the last night, as if sensing that her fault die in prison.

The children of Don Salvador, some rich men as greedy as his father, mired in creyéronse misery
because the piece of land remained unproductive.

A farmer resident of another district in the garden, the man who never missed handsome had enough
land, he felt tempted by the low price of the lease and to go through with to all fields that inspired
fear.

I was going to till the land with the gun on his shoulder, he and his servants were laughing
at the loneliness they let the neighbors, the barracks were closed
to his step, and followed them from afar hostile glances.

Much the farmer watched, sensing an ambush, but it was useless caution,
because one afternoon when I returned alone to his house, when he
still had not finished clearing their new fields, you dropped it out
two shotguns, but saw the attacker, and miraculously came unscathed
from the handful of BBs that he passed to his ears.

On the roads did not see anyone.

Not a new track. He had been pulled from a ditch, ambushed the shooter behind the Canar.

With enemies and could not fight, and the bully, on the same night, gave the keys of the cabin
to their masters.

You had to listen to the children of Don Salvador. Is it that there was no government or security
for property ... or anything?

Pimento was undoubtedly the author of the attack, which prevented
the fields were cultivated and the Civil Guard seized the check from
the garden, taking him to prison.

But when it came to the statements, all paraded before the district
court affirming Pimento's innocence, but to those rustic rogues they
could start a contradictory word.

All recited the same lesson. Even
old ailing never left their barracks declared that day, at the same
time that they heard the two shots, was in a tavern Pimento Alboraya
of carousing with friends.

Nothing could be against these people
and look stupid gesture candida, scratching his neck lied with such
aplomb, Pimento was released, and all the barracks came a sigh of
triumph and satisfaction.

Since the test was made: everyone would
know in future that the cultivation of those lands paid to the skin.

Did
not give the greedy masters. Cultivate the land themselves, and sought
laborers between people suffered and submissive, smelling of rough
wool and misery, low in search of work, driven from hunger, from the
ends of the province, from the border mountains to Aragon.

In the
garden he pitied the poor churros. Woe! Iban to earn a wage, what
fault theirs? And at night, when he retired with a hoe over his shoulder,
there was always a good soul who called from the door of the tavern's
Cup were in, the guests to drink and then we were talking in his ear
with his face grim and parental stress and mild as one who counsels
a child to avoid the danger. And the result was that the docile churros
the next day instead of going to the field, mass presented themselves
to the owners of the land.

- My lord, we come to pay us. 

And they
were frustrated all the arguments of the two bachelors, furious at
being attacked in their greed.

- My master - answered everything
-: semos probes, but we have not encontrao life behind a haystack.

Not
only left the job, but passing notice to all his countrymen to flee
from earn a wage in the fields of Barret, and those who shun the devil.

The
landowners asked for protection even in the public papers. And pairs
of Civil Guard were to run the orchard, to bet on the roads, to surprise
gestures and conversation, always unsuccessfully.

Every day looked
the same: women sewing and singing in the vines, the men in the fields,
bent, eyes on the ground, giving no rest to the active arms; Pimento
tending to the great man sticks to the league, hoping to birds, or
helping Pepeta to clumsy and lazy, in the tavern a few old Cup sunbathing
or playing trick. The landscape breathed peace and honest bestiality
was a Moorish Arcadia. But The guild did not trust, no farmer wanted
the land or even for free, and so the masters had to abandon his efforts,
allowing it to be covered with weeds and that barrack is shut down,
awaiting the arrival of a man of good will can of shopping or work.

The
garden trembled with pride seeing how that wealth was lost and the
heirs of Don Salvador became the "holy." I stopped in astonishment, looking for
the cause of the strange teetering; but there was nothing on the log beside myself. After a
moment I went on again, looking again for my partridge. Again the log rocked, heavily this
time, almost throwing me off. Then I noticed that the tip of the other log, which lay balanced
across a great rock, was under the tip of my log and was being pried up by something on the
other end. Some animal was there, and it flashed upon me suddenly that he was heavy enough
to lift my weight with his stout lever. I stole along so as to look behind a great tree--and
there on the other log, not twenty feet away, a big bear was standing, twisting himself uneasily,
trying to decide whether to go on or go back on his unstable footing.

He discovered me at the instant that my face appeared behind the tree. Such surprise, such
wonder I have seldom seen in an animal's face. For a long moment he met my eyes steadily with
his. Then he began to twist again, while the logs rocked up and down. Again he looked at the
strange animal on the other log; but the face behind the tree had not moved nor changed; the
eyes looked steadily into his. With a startled movement he plunged off into the underbrush,
and but for a swift grip on a branch the sudden lurch would have sent me off backward among
the rocks. As he jumped I heard a swift flutter of wings. I followed it timidly, not knowing
where the bear was, and in a moment I had the second partridge stowed away comfortably with
his brother in my hunting shirt.

The rest of the flock had scattered widely by this time. I found one or two and followed them;
but they dodged away into the thick alders, where I could not find their heads quick enough
with my rifle sight. After a vain, hasty shot or two I went back to my fishing.

Woods and lake were soon quiet again. The trout had stopped rising, in one of their sudden
moods. A vast silence brooded over the place, unbroken by any buzz of my noisy reel, and the
twilight shadows were growing deeper and longer, when the soft, gliding, questioning chatter
of partridges came floating out of the alders. The leader was there, in the thickest tangle--I
had learned in an hour to recognize his peculiar Prut, prut--and from the hillside and the
alder swamp and the big evergreens his scattered flock were answering; here a kwit, and there
a prut, and beyond a swift burr of wings, all drawing closer and closer together.

I had still a third partridge to get for my own hungry flock; so I stole swiftly back into
the alder swamp. There I found a little game path and crept along it on hands and knees, drawing
cautiously near to the leader's continued calling.

In the midst of a thicket of low black alders, surrounded by a perfect hedge of bushes, I found
him at last. He was on the lower end of a fallen log, gliding rapidly up and down, spreading
wings and tail and budding ruff, as if he were drumming, and sending out his peculiar call
at every pause. Above him, in a long line on the same log, five other partridges were sitting
perfectly quiet, save now and then, when an answer came to the leader's call, they would turn
their heads and listen intently till the underbrush parted cautiously and another bird flitted
up beside them. Then another call, and from the distant hillside a faint kwit-kwit and a rush
of wings in answer, and another partridge would shoot in on swift pinions to pull himself up
on the log beside his fellows. The line would open hospitably to let him in; then the row grew
quiet again, as the leader called, turning their heads from side to side for the faint answers.

There were nine on the log at last. The calling grew louder and louder; yet for several minutes
now no answer came back. The flock grew uneasy; the leader ran from his log into the brush
and back again, calling loudly, while a low chatter, the first break in their strange silence,
ran back and forth through the family on the log. There were others to come; but where were
they, and why did they tarry? It was growing late; already an owl had hooted, and the roosting
place was still far away. Prut, prut, pr-r-r-reee! called the leader, and the chatter ceased
as the whole flock listened.

I turned my head to the hillside to listen also for the laggards; but there was no answer.
Save for the cry of a low-flying loon and the snap of a twig--too sharp and heavy for little
feet to make--the woods were all silent. As I turned to the log again, something warm and heavy
rested against my side. Then I knew; and with the knowledge came a swift thrill of regret that
made me feel guilty and out of place in the silent woods. The leader was calling, the silent
flock were waiting for two of their number who would never answer the call again.

I lay scarcely ten yards from the log on which the sad little drama went on in the twilight
shadows, while the great silence grew deep and deeper, as if the wilderness itself were in
sympathy and ceased its cries to listen. Once, at the first glimpse of the group, I had raised
my rifle and covered the head of the largest bird; but curiosity to know what they were doing
held me back. Now a deeper feeling had taken its place; the rifle slid from my hand and lay
unnoticed among the fallen leaves.

Again the leader called. The flock drew itself up, like a row of gray-brown statues, every
eye bright, every ear listening, till some vague sense of fear and danger drew them together;
and they huddled on the ground in a close group; all but the leader, who stood above them,
counting them over and over, apparently, and anon sending his cry out into the darkening woods.

I took one of the birds out of my pocket and began to smooth the rumpled brown feathers. How
beautiful he was, how perfectly adapted in form and color for the wilderness in which he had
lived! And I had taken his life, the only thing he had. Its beauty and something deeper, which
is the sad mystery of all life, were gone forever. All summer long he had run about on glad
little feet, delighting in nature's abundance, calling brightly to his fellows as they glided
in and out in eager search through the lights and shadows. Fear on the one hand, absolute obedience
to his mother on the other, had been the two great factors of his life. Between them he grew
strong, keen, alert, knowing perfectly when to run and when to fly and when to crouch motionless,
as danger passed close with blinded eyes. Then when his strength was perfect, and he glided
alone through the wilderness coverts in watchful self-dependence--a moment's curiosity, a quick
eager glance at the strange animal standing so still under the cedar, a flash, a noise; and
all was over. The call of the leader went searching, searching through the woods; but he gave
no heed any more.

The hand had grown suddenly very tender as it stroked his feathers. I had taken his life; I
must try to answer for him now. At the thought I raised my head and gave the clear whit-kwit
of a running partridge. Instantly the leader answered; the flock sprang to the log again and
turned their heads in my direction to listen. Another call, and now the flock dropped to the
ground and lay close, while the leader drew himself up straight on the log and became part
of a dead stub beside him.

Something was wrong in my call; the birds were suspicious, knowing not what danger had kept
their fellows silent so long, and now threatened them out of the black alders. A moment's intent
listening; then the leader stepped slowly down from his log and came towards me cautiously,
halting, hiding, listening, gliding, swinging far out to one side and back again in stealthy
advance, till he drew himself up abruptly at sight of my face peering out of the underbrush.
For a long two minutes he never stirred so much as an eyelid. Then he glided swiftly back,
with a faint, puzzled, questioning kwit-kwit? to where his flock were waiting. A low signal
that I could barely hear, a swift movement--then the flock thundered away in scattered flight
into the silent, friendly woods.

Ten minutes later I was crouched in some thick underbrush looking up into a great spruce, when
I could just make out the leader standing by an upright branch in sharp silhouette against
the glowing west. I had followed his swift flight, and now lay listening again to his searching
call as it went out through the twilight, calling his little flock to the roosting tree. From
the swamp and the hillside and far down by the quiet lake they answered, faintly at first,
then with clearer call and the whirr of swift wings as they came in.

But already I had seen and heard enough; too much, indeed, for my peace of mind. I crept away
through the swamp, the eager calls following me even to my canoe; first a plaint, as if something
were lacking to the placid lake and quiet woods and the soft beauty of twilight; and then a
faint question, always heard in the kwit of a partridge, as if only I could explain why two
eager voices would never again answer to roll call when the shadows lengthened.

Umquenawis The Mighty

Umquenawis the Mighty is lord of the woodlands. None other among the wood folk is half so great
as he; none has senses so keen to detect a danger, nor powers so terrible to defend himself
against it. So he fears nothing, moving through the big woods like a master; and when you see
him for the first time in the wilderness pushing his stately, silent way among the giant trees,
or plunging like a great engine through underbrush and over windfalls, his nose up to try the
wind, his broad antlers far back on his mighty shoulders, while the dead tree that opposes
him cracks and crashes down before his rush, and the alders beat a rattling, snapping tattoo
on his branching horns,--when you see him thus, something within you rises up, like a soldier
at salute, and says: "Milord the Moose!" The
Ministry of War, the Management of the Weapons and other military facilities were full of soldiers
and officers, protected by recommendations, had found means to circumvent his bad luck, getting
rid of joining their battalions, and the abuse took such proportions that it was necessary
to avoid it.

When stakeholders were calmer, he ordered that, within three days, all individuals placed on
the premises of the Ministry in the past six months hospitalized in their bodies, whatever their
origin and how this meant the inevitable accuracy out to operations overnight, Pepe decided carry
out its purpose. Regarding his father, had everything planned: what was was made as simple
as sad a stretcher to transport you on Engracia house, and carry then his bed, his clothes and
some furniture, preserved more useful than for sellers. The difficulty was in determining
to take Dona Manuela and Leocadia. What would you do? To persist in following up on the streets
of keypads, with what resources? And to find another room, what means would have? Not hide
the clear understanding Pepe who, though sick of reason, should not be thrown into the street
to his mother and sister, but also saw that the fanaticism of Dona Manuela and subsequent behavior
could result in Leocadia during his absence, the total abandonment of the poor old man.

- You speak to them - Pepe said Miller, trying this. I lack courage, and may also I miss calm.

- I see your mother ... With Leo did not speak.

- Whatever.

- When
you think that we have the transfer to your father?

- This is done
in one morning.

The main thing is that you speak.

If God touched my heart! What do I do not want to leave the house?

... and although they lend themselves, where are they to put in and how will they live? It seems
incredible that we've got to have to think about it!

Miller did not seek to Dona Manuela at home, not to see Leocadia, but eager to meet the difficult
task of Pepe, went to the alms of light. The first trip was made in vain: Dona Manuela refused
to receive him. At the second attempt, he was told not to leave because he was in worship, but said
the chaplain prayed, his son, which had fit.

Miller came on the same visiting room where he was received days before Pepe, when he sought
see his mother, and within minutes was tabled Tirso. Despite the dead, for work the affection of
Engracia, Millan was the love of Leocadia, the presence of the priest was impressed unpleasantly,
even tougher in his anger toward the man, that wiped with their first loves. Thus no resistance
to dealing with the priest: the opportunity came unceremoniously shot to treat and also understood
it was better with him than his mother, whose goodness there was morning, and shortness of
understanding which would not have, of fixed, fixed. He preferred the risk of a violent scene with
the man, the prospect struggling with weak or passive resistance
alone.

- In what I can do for you? - Tirso asked.

- I come from
Pepe.

(Sitting).

- What does that unhappy?

It was not necessary for both dialogue embittered.

"Bes' keep still; big moose make-um trouble sometime," muttered Noel behind me; and we dropped
back silently into the lee of the friendly rock, to watch awhile longer and let the big creature
do as she would.

For ten minutes more we tried every kind of threat and persuasion to get the moose out of the
way, ending at last by sending a bullet zipping into the water under her body; but beyond an
angry stamp of the foot there was no response, and no disposition whatever to give us the stream.
Then I bethought me of a trick that I had discovered long before by accident. Dropping down
to the nearest bank, I crept up behind the moose, hidden in the underbrush, and began to break
twigs, softly at first, then more and more sharply, as if something were coming through the
woods fearlessly. At the first suspicious crack the moose whirled, hesitated, started nervously
across the stream, twitching her nostrils and wigwagging her big ears to find out what the
crackle meant, and hurrying more and more as the sounds grated harshly upon her sensitive nerves.
Next moment the river was clear and our canoe was breasting the rippling shallows, while the
moose watched us curiously, half hidden in the alders.

That is a good trick, for occasions. The animals all fear twig snapping. Only never try it
at night, with a bull, in the calling season, as I did once unintentionally. Then he is apt
to mistake you for his tantalizing mate and come down on you like a tempest, giving you a big
scare and a monkey scramble into the nearest tree before he is satisfied.

Within the next hour I counted seven moose, old and young, from the canoe; and when we ran
ashore at twilight to the camping ground on the big lake, the tracks of an enormous bull were
drawn sharply across our landing. The water was still trickling into them, showing that he
had just vacated the spot at our approach.

How do I know it was a bull? At this season the bulls travel constantly, and the points of
the hoofs are worn to a clean, even curve. The cows, which have been living in deep retirement
all summer, teaching their ungainly calves the sounds and smells and lessons of the woods,
travel much less; their hoofs, in consequence, are generally long and pointed and overgrown.

Two miles above our camp was a little brook, with an alder swale on one side and a dark, gloomy
spruce tangle on the other--an ideal spot for a moose to keep her little school, I thought,
when I discovered the place a few days later. There were tracks on the shore, plenty of them;
and I knew I had only to watch long enough to see the mother and her calf, and to catch a glimpse,
perhaps, of what no man has ever yet seen clearly; that is, a moose teaching her little one
how to hide his bulk; how to move noiselessly and undiscovered through underbrush where, one
would think, a fox must make his presence known; how to take a windfall on the run; how to
breast down a young birch or maple tree and keep it under his body while he feeds on the top,--and
a score of other things that every moose must know before he is fit to take care of himself
in the big woods.

I went there one afternoon in my canoe, grasped a few lily stems to hold the little craft steady,
and snuggled down till only my head showed above the gunwales, so as to make canoe and man
look as much like an old, wind-blown log as possible. It was getting toward the hour when I
knew the cow would be hungry, but while it was yet too light to bring her little one to the
open shore. After an hour's watching, the cow came cautiously down the brook. She stopped short
at sight of the floating log; watched it steadily for two or three minutes, wigwagging her
ears; then began to feed greedily on the lily pads that fringed all the shore. When she went
back I followed, guided now by the crack of a twig, now by a swaying of brush tops, now by
the flip of a nervous ear or the push of a huge dark body, keeping carefully to leeward all
the time and making the big, unconscious creature guide me to where she had hidden her little one.

Just above me, and a hundred yards in from the shore, a tree had fallen, its bushy top bending
down two small spruces and making a low den, so dark that an owl could scarcely have seen what
was inside. "That's the spot," I told myself instantly; but the mother passed well above it,
without noting apparently how good a place it was. Fifty yards farther on she turned and circled
back, below the spot, trying the wind with ears and nose as she came on straight towards me.

"Aha! the old moose trick," I thought, remembering how a hunted moose never lies down to rest
without first circling back for a long distance, parallel to his trail and to leeward, to find
out from a safe distance whether anything is following him. When he lies down, at last, it
will be close beside his trail, but hidden from it; so that he hears or smells you as you go
by. And when you reach the place, far ahead, where he turned back he will be miles away, plunging
along down wind at a pace that makes your snowshoe swing like a baby's toddle. So you camp
where he lay down, and pick up the trail in the morning.

When the big cow turned and came striding back I knew that I should find her little one in
the spruce den. But would she not find me, instead, and drive me out of her bailiwick? You
can never be sure what a moose will do if she finds you near her calf. Generally they run--always,
in fact--but sometimes they run your way. And besides, I had been trying for years to see a
mother moose teaching in her little school. Now I dropped on all fours and crawled away down
wind, so as to get beyond ken of the mother's inquisitive nose if possible.

She came on steadily, moving with astonishing silence through the tangle, till she stood where
I had been a moment before, when she started violently and threw her head up into the wind.
Some scent of me was there, clinging faintly to the leaves and the moist earth. For a moment
she stood like a rock, sifting the air in her nose; then, finding nothing in the wind, she
turned slowly in my direction to use her ears and eyes. I was lying very still behind a mossy
log by this time, and she did not see me. Suddenly she turned and called, a low bleat. There
was an instant stir in the spruce den, an answering bleat, and a moose calf scrambled out and
ran straight to the mother. There was an unvoiced command to silence that no human sense could
understand. The mother put her great head down to earth--"Smell of that; mark that, and remember,"
she was saying in her own way; and the calf put his little head down beside hers, and I heard
him sniff-sniffing the leaves. Then the mother swung her head savagely, bunted the little fellow
out of his tracks, and drove him hurriedly ahead of her away from the place--"Get out, hurry,
danger!" was what she was saying now, and emphasizing her teaching with an occasional bunt
from behind that lifted the calf over the hard places. So they went up the hill, the calf wondering
and curious, yet ever reminded by the hard head at his flank that obedience was his business
just now, the mother turning occasionally to sniff and listen, till they vanished silently
among the dark spruces.

For a week or more I haunted the spot; but though I saw the pair occasionally, in the woods
or on the shore, I learned no more of Umquenawis' secrets. The moose schools are kept in far-away,
shady dingles beyond reach of inquisitive eyes. Then, one morning at daylight as my canoe shot
round a grassy point, there were the mother and her calf standing knee-deep among the lily
pads. With a yell I drove the canoe straight at the little one.

Now it takes a young moose or caribou a long time to learn that when sudden danger threatens
he is to follow, not his own frightened head, but his mother's guiding tail. To young fawns
this is practically the first thing taught by the mothers; but caribou are naturally stupid,
or trustful, or burningly inquisitive, according to their several dispositions; and moose,
with their great strength, are naturally fearless; so that this needful lesson is slowly learned.
If you surprise a mother moose or caribou with her young at close quarters and rush at them
instantly, with a whoop or two to scatter their wits, the chances are that the mother will
bolt into the brush, where safety lies, and the calf into the lake or along the shore, where
the going is easiest.

Several times I have caught young moose and caribou in this way, either swimming or stogged
in the mud, and after turning them back to shore have watched the mother's cautious return
and her treatment of the lost one. Once I paddled up beside a young bull moose, half grown,
and grasping the coarse hair on his back had him tow me a hundred yards, to the next point,
while I studied his expression.

As my canoe shot up to the two moose they did exactly what I had expected; the mother bolted
for the woods in mighty, floundering jumps, mud and water flying merrily about her; while the
calf darted along the shore, got caught in the lily pads, and with a despairing bleat settled
down in the mud of a soft place, up to his back, and turned his head to see what I was.

I ran my canoe ashore and approached the little fellow quietly, without hurry or excitement.
Nose, eyes, and ears questioned me; and his fear gradually changed to curiosity as he saw how
harmless a thing had frightened him. He even tried to pull his awkward little legs out of the
mud in my direction. Meanwhile the big mother moose was thrashing around in the bushes in a
terrible swither, calling her calf to come.

I had almost reached the little fellow when the wind brought him the strong scent that he had
learned in the woods a few days before, and he bleated sharply. There was an answering crash
of brush, a pounding of hoofs that told one unmistakably to look out for his rear, and out
of the bushes burst the mother, her eyes red as a wild pig's, and the long hair standing straight
up along her back in a terrifying bristle. "Stand not upon the order of your mogging, but mog
at once--eeeunh! unh!" she grunted; and I turned otter instantly and took to the lake, diving
as soon as the depth allowed and swimming under water to escape the old fury's attention. There
was little need of fine tactics, however, as I found out when my head appeared again cautiously.
Anything in the way of an unceremonious retreat of the enemy satisfied her as perfectly as
if she had been a Boer general. She went straight to her calf, thrust her great head under
his belly, hiked him roughly out of the mud, and then butted him ahead of her into the bushes.

It was stern, rough discipline; but the youngster needed it to teach him the wisdom of the
woods. From a distance I watched the quivering line of brush tops that marked their course,
and then followed softly. When I found them again, in the twilight of the great spruces, the
mother was licking the sides of her calf, lest he should grow cold too suddenly after his unwonted
bath. All the fury and harshness were gone. Her great head lowered tenderly over the foolish,
ungainly youngster, tonguing him, caressing him, drying and warming his poor sides, telling
him in mother language that it was all right now, and that next time he would do better.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were other moose on the lake, all of them as uncertain as the big cow and her calf. Probably
most of them had never seen a man before our arrival, and it kept one's expectations on tiptoe
to know what they would do when they saw the strange two-legged creature for the first time.
If a moose smelled me before I saw him, he would make off quietly into the woods, as all wild
creatures do, and watch from a safe distance. But if I stumbled upon him unexpectedly, when
the wind brought no warning to his nostrils, he was fearless, usually, and full of curiosity.

The worst of them all was the big bull whose tracks were on the shore when we arrived. He was
a morose, ugly old brute, living apart by himself, with his temper always on edge ready to
bully anything that dared to cross his path or question his lordship. Whether he was an outcast,
grown surly from living too much alone, or whether he bore some old bullet wound to account
for his hostility to man, I could never find out. Far down the river a hunter had been killed,
ten years before, by a bull moose that he had wounded; and this may have been, as Noel declared,
the same animal, cherishing his resentment with a memory as merciless as an Indian's.

Before we had found this out I stumbled upon the big bull one afternoon, and came near paying
the penalty of my ignorance. I had been still-fishing for togue (lake trout), and was on my
way back to camp when, doubling a point, I ran plump upon a bull moose feeding among the lily
pads. My approach had been perfectly silent,--that is the only way to see things in the woods,--and
he was quite unconscious that anybody but himself was near.

He would plunge his great head under water till only his antler tips showed, and nose around
on the bottom till he found a lily root. With a heave and a jerk he would drag it out, and
stand chewing it endwise with huge satisfaction, while the muddy water trickled down over his
face. When it was all eaten he would grope under the lily pads for another root in the same way.

Without thinking much of the possible risk, I began to steal towards him. While his head was
under I would work the canoe along silently, simply "rolling the paddle" without lifting it
from the water. At the first lift of his antlers I would stop and sit low in the canoe till
he finished his juicy morsel and ducked for more. Then one could slip along easily again without
being discovered. Then paused, as if those words cost him great effort.

Followed the path in silence, parting near the hut.

- Bona nit and
greasy! - Said the girl.

- Bona nit! - And disappeared Tonet marching
toward the village.

For it was a minor incident, a pleasant meeting, he had removed fear no more. And yet, Rosetta
had dinner that night and went to bed thinking of the grandson Tomba
uncle.

I remembered the times she had met in the morning on the way, and even seemed Tonet tried to always
march in step with her, but something separate to avoid drawing the
attention of the stinging spinners .... On occasion, the head sharply
back, believed to have been surprised with his eyes fixed on her ...

And
the girl, as if spinning a cocoon, grab these loose ends of his memory
and pulled and pulled, remembering all of his life that was related
to Tonet, the first Once they saw it, and compassionate sympathy for
the fun of the spinners, he bore downcast and shy, as if these harpies
in band will inspire fear, then frequent encounters on the road and
the stares of the boy, who seemed to want to tell her something.

To go to Valencia in the morning, saw him no, but at night, to start back to his cabin, he
felt no fear, in spite of the twilight was dark and rainy. Sensed the appearance of reassuring
companion, and actually met him at almost the same point the previous day.

It was as expressive as ever, "Bona nit!" And walked beside her.

Rosetta was more talkative.

Where did it come? What a coincidence, found two days!

And he, trembling, as if the words cost him great effort, he answered as usual: "D'there ...
d'there ....»

The girl, who was actually as shy as he felt no desire to laugh but his embarrassment. She spoke
of her fear, the shocks during the winter went on the road; and Tonet, flattered by the service
they provide to the young man finally opened his mouth to tell it often accompany her. He
always had his love affairs that required him to march through the meadow.

They said goodbye to the brevity of the previous day, but that night the girl stirred in bed,
restless, nervous, dreaming thousand foolish, seeing themselves in a way black, very black, accompanied
by a huge dog licked her hand and had the same face Tonet. After out a wolf to bite, with a nose
vaguely reminiscent of the hated Pimento, and fought the two animals with his teeth, and left
his father with a club, and she cried as if the back Soltan in the beatings he received his
poor dog, and so was yacketayakking your imagination, but always seeing the scenes of his dream
run over the grandson of Tomba, with blue eyes and her face covered with a girl, blond hair,
which was first sign of manhood.

It is broken up, as if to come out of a delirium. That day was Sunday and not go to factory.
The sun came through the little window of her bedroom and all the people of the cabin was and
out of bed. Rosetta began arranging to go to mass with her mother.

The devilish dream was still upset.

He felt another, with different thoughts, last night as if it were a wall that divided his
life into two parts.

Happy as a bird sang, while he was removing clothes from the ark and placed it on his bed still warm
with the traces of his body.

Much liked Sundays, with their freedom to get up later, their hours of idleness and his little
trip to Alboraya to hear Mass, but that Sunday was better than the others, shone more sun,
singing birds harder, went through the little window air that smelled
to glory: how to say!

... in short, that the morning was for her something new and extraordinary.

It had been taunted until then a female care for herself. Ten and six years and who thought it was
time to get ready. How stupid was to laugh his mother was always calling her awkward! ...

And like a new dress that I saw for the first time, Then he put over
his head with great care, if it were subtle lace, the skirt of calico
every Sunday.

Then squeezed much the corset, and if you do not oppress one frame still quite high shovels,
a true corset styling, which cruelly crushed chest rising, as in the Valencian garden is immodesty
than singles do not hide the seductive trappings of nature so that
no sinfully can mean in the future virgin motherhood.

For the first time in his life was the spinner over a quarter of an hour before the middle
span mercury glass and painted pine frame that gave him his father had a mirror in which to
contemplate the face sections.

She was not much he recognized, but were uglier to dozens in the garden. And without knowing
why, he delighted watching his eyes light green, mottled cheeks of those freckles that the sun raises
the skin toasted white blond hair, with flaccid fineness of silk, the little nose of sheltering
a mouth quivering wings shaded the hair of a seasoned fruit, half
opened and the teeth showed a strong and equal, whiteness of milk,
which seemed to illuminate his face shine: a poor teeth.

His mother had to wait. In vain the poor woman made haste, writhing impatiently the cabin, as spurred
by the bell sounded in the distance.

Iban to lose mass. While So calmly combing Rosetta, then undo your work soon satisfied it. Then
she arranged the blanket with angry jerks, we never find on your taste.

In Alboraya Square, entering and leaving the church, Rosetta, raising just your eyes scanned the
door of the butcher, where people crowded around the table sales.

There he was, helping his master, giving pieces of sheep skinned and
frightening clouds of flies that covered the meat.

I flushed the borregote watching!

... As she passed a second time, was as delighted with a leg of lamb in the right hand without
giving it to her paunchy employer, who was waiting in vain, and which,
dropping a wad round, was threatened with the knife.

The afternoon was unhappy. Sitting at the gate of his barracks, surprise several times haunting
thought the paths somewhat distant, or hiding in the Canaro to her. The spinner wanted which soon came
on Monday to go to the factory and move to the horrible road back together by Tonet.

He left the boy submitted at nightfall the following day.

Even closer to the city than in the other day, was met by Rosetta.

- Bona nit!

But after the usual salutation not stopped. He seemed timid progress much during the rest day.

And
awkwardly, grimacing accompany their expressions and scratches on the legs of trousers explained,
but passed between words sometimes two minutes. He was glad see her good ... (Smile Rosetta and a
"greasy" murmured softly.) "Had fun much on Sunday? ... (Pause) He
had been pretty bad. Bored.

No doubt the usual ... well ... seemed that something was missing .... Sure! law had taken the
road ... no, the road no, what he liked was to accompany ...

And here he stopped short. So it seemed to be biting nervously Rosetta language to punish for
his audacity, and pinched in the armpits for having gone so far.

They walked in silence for a long time. The girl did not answer; continued their march with the
swagger unscathed from the spinners, basket in left hip and right arm slicing the air with a
swinging pendulum.

He thought of his dream.

He figured to be in delirium, seeing extravagances, and several times turned his head to perceive
in the dark thinking dog that licked his hands and had Tonet's face, remember that even made
him laugh.

But no, what I had to hand was a good able to defend fellow, rather shy and cramped, yes,
head down, as if the words I still had to say it had slipped to the chest and there were poking.

Rosetta
still confused you more. "Let us see, why was that? Why went out to accompany in their way?
What would people say?

If her father found out, what disgust !...»

- Per what? ... "Per what? - Asked the girl.

And the younger, more and more sad, more cramped, as a convicted criminal who hears the accusation,
nothing answered. Marching in step with the girl, but separated from
it, stumbled on the wayside.

Rosetta even thought he was going to mourn.

But near the hut and when they went to separate, Tonet had a timid
start.

Spoke with the same violence had stopped, and as if they had spent many minutes answer to the
question of the girl

- Per what? ... Perqu'et vullc [12].

[12] - Why? ... Because I love you.

He said it closer to her to throw her breath in his face, gleaming eyes as if you leave them the
whole truth, and after that, sorry again, fearful, appalled by his words, began to run as
a child.

Tonet's wanted! ... For two days that she expected these words, and yet I caused the effect
of an unexpected revelation. She also loved him and all night, even in dreams, was heard, whispered
by a thousand voices with their ears, the same phrase: "Perqu'et
vullc."

Tonet not wait to the next night. At dawn he saw Rosetta on the road, almost hidden behind the
trunk of a mulberry tree, watching with anxiety as a child who is afraid of reprimand and repentant,
ready to flee at the first sign of displeasure.

But the spinner smiled, blushing, and there was no more.

Everything was spoken, not returned to say that they wanted, but it
was something agreed in the engagement, Tonet and did not miss a single
time to accompany her on her way.

The roaring of courage bellied butcher with the sudden change of his
servant, once so diligently and now always inventing excuses to spend
hours and hours in the garden, especially at dusk.

But the selfishness of his happiness, Tonet was concerned both tacos and threats of his master,
as the spinner of his feared father, to whom he was usually even more afraid that I respect.

Rosetta always had a nest in her bedroom, he said he had met on the road. Her boyfriend could
not be with empty hands, and explored all the Canar and orchard trees
gift to the spinner wheels of straw and twigs, in whose bottom a few
urchins, with the pink skin covered with fine hair and bare butt,
chirped desperately opening up a huge bill never satiated with crumbs.

Rosetta kept the gift in his room, as if the same person as her boyfriend, and cried when their
brothers, the little people who had the cabin per nest in force to
admire the birds, eventually wring his neck.

Tonet sometimes appeared with a lump in the belly: the strip full
of lupins and peanuts Copa purchased house, and slowly going the way
they ate and ate, looking at one in each other's eyes, smiling like
fools without knowing why, sometimes sitting on a bank not realizing
it.

She was the most sensible, and scolded him. Always spending money! They were two little real
or least in a week had left the tavern with so many gifts. And he
showed generous.

Who wanted the rooms but for her? When they married - ever have to be - and would keep the
money. The thing would be there at ten or twelve years, there was no hurry, all engagements
of the garden and lasted one season.

The marriage was to return to Rosetta to reality. On the day his father knew everything ....
Blessed Virgin! was going to break one's back to sticks. And speaking of the future beating calmly
smiling like a strong girl accustomed to the paternal authority,
rigid, imposing and honradota, manifested to blows and sticks.

Their relations were innocent. Never appeared among them the sharp desire, the audacity of
meat.

Marched through the almost deserted road in the twilight of dusk, and the same loneliness looked
away from his thinking unclean all purposes.

Once touched unintentionally Tonet Rosetta waist, as if he ruborizóse
the girl.

They were both very far from believing in their daily encounters could
come up with something would not speak and look. It was the first
love, the expansion of youth just wake up, who is content to see,
to talk and laugh, without a shadow of desire.

The spinner, who in
his dreadful night had so desired the arrival of spring, was developed
with concern the long, luminous twilight.

Now he met with her boyfriend
in broad daylight, and never missing in the way the factory partners
or women of the neighborhood, that seeing them together smiling mischievously
guessed everything.

The factory started teasing by their enemies,
who asked him ironically when married, and called her the nickname
"Pastor", by having an affair with the nephew of old Tomba.

Trembling
with concern the poor Rosetta. What was going to make a beat! Any
day was the news to his father. And then when Batiste was the day
of his sentence in the Court Waters, saw her on the road accompanied
by Tonet.

But nothing happened. The happy event of irrigation saved
the girl. Her father, contented have delivered their crop, limitóse
to look several times with a frown. Then the voice said slowly, a
high rate and accent imperative that in future take care to return
one of the factory, otherwise it would know who he was.

And one came
back for a week. Tonet you had some respect to Mr. Batiste, and content
to ambush near the road, to see happen to the spinner or follow after
from afar.

As the days were longer, there were many people on the
road.

But this separation could not last for the couple impatient,
and a Sunday Later, Rosetta, idle, tired of walking outside the door
of his cabin and thinking she saw Tonet on all paths passing through
the remote, grabbed a jug painted in green, and told his mother he
was going to bring water from the fountain of the Queen.

The mother
let her go. Be distracted, poor girl! had no friends, and to the youth
there to give his own.

The source of the Queen was the pride of all
that part of the garden, ordered water wells and liquid and muddy
crimson running down the drains.

Was compared to an abandoned farmhouse,
and was "what is old and of great merit" in the words of the wisest
of the garden: the work of the Moors, as Pimento monuments of the
time the apostles were baptized crooks in the world, as stated in
majesty oracle Uncle Tomba.

In the evening walked along the road,
fringed with poplar silver foliage restless groups girls still wearing
her pitcher and right on the head, remembering with its rhythmic step
and svelte figure to the Greek canephori. I have
heard a score of hunters and Indians call, all differently, and have sometimes brought a bull
into the open at the wail of my own bark trumpet; but I have never yet listened to a call that
has any resemblance to the bellow of a cow moose as I have often heard it in the woods. Nor
have I ever heard, or ever met anybody who has heard, a cow moose give forth any sound like
the "long call" which is made by hunters, and which is used successfully to bring the bull
from a distance.

Others claim, and with some reason, that the bull, more fearless and careless at this season
than at other times, comes merely to investigate the sound, as he and most other wild creatures
do with every queer or unknown thing they hear. The Alaskan Indians stretch a skin into a kind
of tambourine and beat it with a club to call a bull; which sound, however, might not be unlike
one of the many peculiar bellows that I have heard from cow moose in the wilderness. And I
have twice known bulls to come to the chuck of an ax on a block; which sound, at a distance,
has some resemblance to the peculiar chock-chocking that the bulls use to call their mates
from a distance.

From any point of view the thing has contradictions enough to make one wary of a too positive
opinion. Here at hand was a "lil fool moose" who knew no fear, and who might, therefore, enlighten
me on the obscure subject. I told Simmo to keep on calling softly at intervals while I crept
up into the woods to watch the effect.

It was all as dark as a pocket beyond the open shore. One had to feel his way along, and imitate
the moose himself in putting his feet down. Spite of my precaution a bush whispered; a twig
cracked. Instantly there was a swift answering rustle ahead as the bull glided towards me.
He had heard the faint message and was coming to see if it were not his tantalizing mate, ready
to whack her soundly, according to his wont, for causing him so much worry, and to beat her
out ahead of him to the open where he could watch her closely and prevent any more of her hiding
tricks.

I stood motionless behind a tree, grasping a branch above, ready to swing up out of reach when
the bull charged. A vague black hulk thrust itself out of the dark woods, close in front of
me, and stood still. Against the faint light, which showed from the lake through the fringe
of trees, the great head and antlers stood out like an upturned root; but I had never known
that a living creature stood there were it not for a soft, clucking rumble that the bull kept
going in his throat,--a ponderous kind of love note, intended, no doubt, to let his elusive
mate know that he was near.

He took another step in my direction, brushing the leaves softly, a low, whining grunt telling
of his impatience. Two more steps and he must have discovered me, when fortunately an appealing
gurgle and a measured plop, plop, plop--like the feet of a moose falling in shallow water--sounded
from the shore below, where Simmo was concealed. Instantly the bull turned and glided away,
a shadow among the shadows. A few minutes later I heard him running off in the direction whence
he had first come.

After that the twilight always found him near our camp. He was convinced that there was a mate
hiding somewhere near, and he was bound to find her. We had only to call a few times from our
canoe, or from the shore, and presently we would hear him coming, blowing his penny trumpet,
and at last see him break out upon the shore with a crashing plunge to waken all the echoes.
Then, one night as we lay alongside a great rock in deep shadow, watching the puzzled young
bull as he ranged along the shore in the moonlight, Simmo grunted softly to call him nearer.
At the sound a larger bull, that we had not suspected, leaped out of the bushes close beside
us with a sudden terrifying plunge and splashed straight at the canoe. Only the quickest kind
of work saved us. Simmo swung the bow off, with a startled grunt of his own, and I paddled
away, while the bull, mistaking us in the dim light for the exasperating cow that had been
calling and hiding herself for a week, followed after us into deep water.

There was no doubt whatever that this moose, at least, had come to what he thought was the
call of a mate. Moonlight is deceptive beyond a few feet; so when the low grunt sounded in
the shadow of the great rock he was sure he had found the coy creature at last, and broke out
of his concealment resolved to keep her in sight and not to let her get away again. That is
why he swam after us. Had he been investigating some new sound or possible danger, he would
never have left the land, where alone his great power and his wonderful senses have full play.
In the water he is harmless, as most other wild creatures are.

I paddled cautiously just ahead of him, so near that, looking over my shoulder, I could see
the flash of his eye and the waves crinkling away before the push of his great nose. After
a short swim he grew suspicious of the queer thing that kept just so far ahead, whether he
swam fast or slow, and turned in towards the shore whining his impatience. I followed slowly,
letting him get some distance ahead, and just as his feet struck bottom whispered to Simmo
for his softest call. At the sound the bull whirled and plunged after us again recklessly,
and I led him across to where the younger bull was still ranging up and down the shore, calling
imploringly to his phantom mate.

I expected a battle when the two rivals should meet; but they paid little attention to each
other. The common misfortune, or the common misery, seemed to kill the fierce natural jealousy
whose fury I had more than once been witness of. They had lost all fear by this time; they
ranged up and down the shore, or smashed recklessly through the swamps, as the elusive smells
and echoes called them hither and yon in their frantic search.

Far up on the mountain side the sharp, challenging grunt of a master bull broke out of the
startled woods in one of the lulls of our exciting play. Simmo heard and turned in the bow
to whisper excitedly: "Nother bull! Fetch-um Ol' Dev'l this time, sartin." Raising his horn
he gave the long, rolling bellow of a cow moose. A fiercer trumpet call from the mountain side
answered; then the sound was lost in the crash-crash of the first two bulls, as they broke
out upon the shore on opposite sides of the canoe.

We gave little heed now to the nearer play; our whole attention was fixed on a hoarse, grunting
roar--Uh, uh, uh! eeeyuh! r-r-r-runh-unh!--with a rattling, snapping crash of underbrush for
an accompaniment. The younger bull heard it; listened for a moment, like a great black statue
under the moonlight; then he glided away into the shadows under the bank. The larger bull heard
it, threw up his great head defiantly, and came swinging along the shore, hurling a savage
challenge back on the echoing woods at every stride.

There was an ominous silence up on the ridge where, a moment before, all was fierce commotion.
Simmo was silent too; the uproar had been appalling, with the sleeping lake below us, and the
vast forest, where silence dwells at home, stretching up and away on every hand to the sky
line. But the spirit of mischief was tingling all over me as I seized the horn and gave the
low appealing grunt that a cow would have uttered under the same circumstances. Like a shot
the answer was hurled back, and down came the great bull--smash, crack, r-r-runh! till he burst
like a tempest out on the open shore, where the second bull with a challenging roar leaped
to meet him.

Simmo was begging me to shoot, shoot, telling me excitedly that "Ol' Dev'l," as he called him,
would be more dangerous now than ever, if I let him get away; but I only drove the canoe in
closer to the splashing, grunting uproar among the shadows under the bank.

There was a terrific duel under way when I swung the canoe alongside a moment later. The bulls
crashed together with a shock to break their heads. Mud and water flew over them; their great
antlers clashed and rang like metal blades as they pushed and tugged, grunting like demons
in the fierce struggle. But the contest was too one-sided to last long. The big bull that had
almost killed me, but in whom I now found myself taking an almost savage pride, had smashed
down from the mountain in a frightful rage, and with a power that nothing could resist. With
a quick lunge he locked antlers in the grip he wanted; a twist of his massive neck and shoulders
forced the opposing head aside, and a mighty spring of his crouching haunches finished the
work. The second moose went over with a plunge like a bolt-struck pine. As he rolled up to
his feet again the savage old bull jumped for him and drove the brow antlers into his flanks.
The next moment both bulls had crashed away into the woods, one swinging off in giant strides
through the crackling underbrush for his life, the other close behind, charging like a battering-ram
into his enemy's rear, grunting like a huge wild boar in his rage and exultation. So the chase
vanished over the ridge into the valley beyond; and silence stole back, like a Chinese empress,
into her disturbed dominions.

From behind a great windfall on the point above, where he had evidently been watching the battle,
the first young bull stole out, and came halting and listening along the shore to the scene
of the conflict. "To the discreet belong the spoils" was written in every timorous step and
stealthy movement. A low grunt from my horn reassured him; he grew confident. Now he would
find the phantom mate that had occasioned so much trouble, and run away with her before the
conqueror should return from his chase. He swung along rapidly, rumbling the low call in his
throat. Then up on the ridge sounded again the crackle of brush and the roar of a challenge.
Rage had not made the victor to forget; indeed, here he was, coming back swiftly for his reward.
On the instant all confidence vanished from the young bull's attitude. He slipped away into
the woods. There was no sound; scarcely a definite motion. A shadow seemed to glide away into
the darker shadows. The underbrush closed softly behind it, and he was gone.

Next morning at daybreak I found my old bull on the shore, a mile below; and with him was the
great cow that had hunted me away from her little one. The youngster was well grown and sturdy
now, but still he followed his mother obediently; and the big bull had taken them both under
his protection. I left them there undisturbed, with a thought of the mighty offspring that
shall some day come smashing down from the mountain to delight the heart of camper or hunter
and set his nerves a-tingle, when the lake shall again be visited and the roar of a bark trumpet
roll over the sleeping lake and the startled woods. Let them kill who will. I have seen Umquenawis
the Mighty as he was before fear came, and am satisfied.

GLOSSARY OF INDIAN NAMES

+Cheokhes+, chē-ok-hĕs´, the mink.

+Cheplahgan+, chep-lâh´gan, the bald eagle.

+Ch'geegee-lokh-sis+, ch'gee-gee´lock-sis, the chickadee.

+Chigwooltz+, chig-wooltz´, the bullfrog.

+Clóte Scarpe+, a legendary hero, like Hiawatha, of the Northern
  Indians. Pronounced variously, Clote Scarpe, Groscap, Gluscap, etc.

+Commoosie+, com-moo-sie´, a little shelter, or hut, of boughs and
  bark.

+Deedeeaskh+, dee-dee´ask, the blue jay.

+Eleemos+, el-ee´mos, the fox.

+Hawahak+, hâ-wâ-hăk´, the hawk.

+Hukweem+, huk-weem´, the great northern diver, or loon.

+Ismaques+, iss-mâ-ques´, the fishhawk.

+Kagax+, kăg´ăx, the weasel.

+Kakagos+, kâ-kâ-gŏs´, the raven.

+K'dunk+, k'dunk´, the toad.

+Keeokuskh+, kee-o-kusk´, the muskrat.

+Keeonekh+, kee´o-nek, the otter.

+Killooleet+, kil´loo-leet, the white-throated sparrow.

+Kookooskoos+, koo-koo-skoos´, the great horned owl.

+Koskomenos+, kŏs´kŏm-e-nŏs´, the kingfisher.

̤+Kupkawis+, cup-ka̤´wis, the barred owl.

+Kwaseekho+, kwâ-seek´ho, the sheldrake.

+Lhoks+, locks, the panther.

+Malsun+, măl´sun, the wolf.

+Meeko+, meek´ō, the red squirrel.

+Megaleep+, meg´â-leep, the caribou.

+Milicete+, mil´ĭ-cete, the name of an Indian tribe; written also
  Malicete.

+Mitches+, mit´chĕs, the birch partridge, or ruffed grouse.

+Moktaques+, mok-tâ´ques, the hare.

+Mooween+, moo-ween´, the black bear.

+Musquash+, mus´quâsh, the muskrat.

+Nemox+, nĕm´ox, the fisher.

+Pekquam+, pek-wăm´, the fisher.

+Quoskh+, quoskh, the blue heron.

+Seksagadagee+, sek´sâ-gā-dâ´gee, the Canada grouse, or spruce
  partridge.

+Skooktum+, skook´tum, the trout.

+Tookhees+, tôk´hees, the wood mouse.

+Umquenawis+, um-que-nâ´wis, the moose.

+Unk Wunk+, unk´ wunk, the porcupine.

+Upweekis+, up-week´iss, the Canada lynx.

ANNOUNCEMENTS

WOOD FOLK SERIES

By WILLIAM J. LONG

The unique merit of this nature student rests in his fascinating style of writing, which invariably
interests young and old; for without this element his pioneer work in the realm of nature would
now be familiar only to scientists. As it is, Long's Wood Folk Series is in use in thousands
of schools the country over, has been adopted by many reading circles, and is now on the library
lists of six important states; thus leading laymen, young and old, into the wonderland of nature
hitherto entirely closed to all.

WAYS OF WOOD FOLK

205 pages. Illustrated. List price, 50 cents; mailing price, 60 cents

This delightful work tells of the lives and habits of the commoner wood folk, such as the crow,
the rabbit, the wild duck. The book is profusely illustrated by Charles Copeland and other artists.

WILDERNESS WAYS

155 pages. Illustrated. List price, 45 cents; mailing price, 50 cents

"Wilderness Ways" is written in the same intensely interesting style as its predecessor, "Ways
of Wood Folk." The hidden life of the wilderness is here presented by sketches and stories
gathered, not from books or hearsay, but from the author's personal contact with wild things
of every description. Little Toohkees, the wood mouse that dies of fright in the author's hand;
the mother otter, Keeonekh, teaching her little ones to swim; and the little red squirrel with
his many curious habits,--all are presented with the same liveliness and color that characterize
the descriptions in the first two volumes. The illustrations by Charles Copeland are unusually
accurate in portraying animal life as it really exists in its native haunts. To him "the summer
wilderness is one vast schoolroom in which a multitude of wise, patient mothers are teaching
their little ones the things they must know in order to hold their place in the world and escape
unharmed from a hundred dangers." This book, also, is adequately illustrated by Charles Copeland.
Some of the chapters represent the characteristics of animals of the same species, and others
show the acute intelligence of certain individual animals that nature seems to have lifted
far above the level of their fellows. The book is well illustrated and is the most noteworthy
contribution to nature literature during the past two years.

GINN & COMPANY PUBLISHERS

NATURE STUDY

                                                        List    Mailing
                                                        price   price
The Jane Andrews Books:
  The Seven Little Sisters                              $0.50     $0.55
  Each and All                                            .50       .55
  Stories Mother Nature Told Her Children                 .50       .55
  My Four Friends                                         .40       .45
Atkinson's First Studies of Plant Life                    .60       .70
Beal's Seed Dispersal                                     .35       .40
Bergen's Glimpses at the Plant World                      .40       .45
Burt's Little Nature Studies for Little People.
  Vol. I. A Primer and a First Reader.
  Vol. II. A Second Reader and a Third Reader        each .25      .30
Burkett, Stevens, and Hill's Agriculture for Beginners    .75      .80
Comstock's Ways of the Six-Footed                         .40      .45
Eddy's Friends and Helpers                                .60      .70
Frye's Brooks and Brook Basins                            .58      .70
Frye's Child and Nature                                   .80      .88
Gould's Mother Nature's Children                          .60      .70
Hale's Little Flower People                               .40      .45
Hardy's Sea Stories
Hodge's Nature Study and Life                            1.50     1.65
Holden's The Sciences                                     .50      .60
Jefferies' Sir Bevis                                      .30      .35
Lane's Oriole Stories                                     .28      .33
Long's Wood Folk Series:
  Ways of Wood Folk                                       .50      .60
  Wilderness Ways                                         .45      .50
  Secrets of the Woods                                    .50      .60
  Wood Folk at School                                     .50      .60
Morley's Little Wanderers                                 .30      .35
Morley's Insect Folk                                      .45      .50
Porter's Stars in Song and Legend                         .50      .55
Roth's First Book of Forestry                             .75      .85
Stickney's Study and Story Nature Readers:
  Earth and Sky, No. I                                    .30      .35
  Earth and Sky, No. II                                   .30      .35
  Pets and Companions                                     .30      .40
  Bird World                                              .60      .70
Strong's All the Year Round. (N. of E.) [32] Christmas child, celebrated the night of December
7, the day before the Feast of the Conception of the Holy Catholic
Church, a popular feast day.

(N. of E.) [33] Artillery Maestranza de la Habana.

Situated behind the Palace of Administration, this was a correctional
institution for slaves who were deemed rebellious by written order
of their masters.

The most common form of punishment was whipping and this often went on for two or three days.
 Its adoption in two great states before its publication,
and in still another state immediately after its appearance, indicates the unusually high merit
of the work.

The authors believe that there is no line of separation between the science of agriculture
and the practical art of agriculture, and that the subject is eminently teachable. Theory and
practice are presented at one and the same time, so that the pupil is taught the fundamental
principles of farming just as he is taught the fundamental truths of arithmetic, geography,
or grammar.

The work is planned for use in grammar-school classes. It thus presents the subject to the
pupil when his aptitudes are the most rapidly developing and when he is forming life habits.
It will give to him, therefore, at the vital period of his life a training which will go far
toward making his life work profitable and delightful. (N. A.)

[31] Juan Bautista Vermay (1784-1833), French painter who came to Cuba to restore some pictures
of the Cathedral of Havana. Protected by Bishop Sword, Captain General
Vives and other influential people, was established in Havana.

The two hundred and eighteen illustrations are unusually excellent and are particularly effective
in illuminating the text. The book is supplied throughout with practical exercises, simple
and interesting experiments, and helpful suggestions. The Appendix, devoted to spraying mixtures
and fertilizer formulas, the Glossary, in which are explained unusual and technical words,
and the complete Index are important.

In mechanical execution--in the attractive and durable binding, in the clear, well-printed
page, and in the illustrations--the book is easily superior to any other elementary work on
agriculture. (N. A.)

[46] Pen appellant, Latin words in Spanish equivalent to the running
of the pen or fly pen.

(N. of E.)

[47] A Nativity, Latin phrase that means birth.

(N. of E.)

[48] ​​Turn in its active sense, means to face down, in the reciprocal disclosed. (N. A.)

[49] Coram populi, instead of coram populo, Latin phrase that equates to in public, publicly.
(N. of E.)

[50] Train Jamaican. In the old mill train was said to
all boilers or kettles for which he had to move the juice to be clarified,
and acquire descachazarse point meladura. There were several types
and models of trains: In Pacheco, Reverb and Jamaican commonly here
is named Jamaican.e the juice to be clarified,
and acquire descachazarse point meladura. There were several types
and models of trains: In Pacheco, Reverb and Jamaican commonly here
is named Jamaican.                                                       |
  |                                                              |
  | Illustrations have been moved to more appropriate places in  |
  | the text.                                                    |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+

