"Well, you said you would like to see some of George Sand's novels, which--for me--was just
the same. So when I went to London yesterday I managed to borrow it, and there it is." He pointed
triumphantly to a yellow-paper-bound volume sticking out of his coat pocket. "Of course you
know George Sand is a sort of old Johnnie now; nobody reads her. But that's your affair. Will
you have it?" He offered it.

The excitement, the wild flush in the girl's face, had subsided. She looked at the book, and
at the man holding it out.

"What is it?" She stooped to read the title--"Mauprat." "What's it about?"

"Some nonsense about a cad tamed by a sentimental young woman." He shrugged his shoulders,
"I tried to read it, and couldn't. But they say it's one of her best. If you want it, there it is."

She took it reluctantly, and moved on along the downward path, he following, and the dog beside
them.

"Have you read the other book?" he asked her.

"'Julie de Trecoeur?' Yes."

"What did you think of it?"

"It was magnificent!" she said shortly, with a quickened breath. "I shall get some more by
that man."

"Well, you'd better be careful!" He laughed. "I've got some others, but I didn't want to recommend
them to you. Lady Fox-Wilton wouldn't exactly approve."

"I don't tell mamma what I read." The girl's young voice sounded sharply beside him in the
warm autumnal dusk. "But if you lent me anything you oughtn't to lend me I would never speak
to you again!"

Meryon gave a low whistle.

"My goodness! I shall have to mind my p's and q's. I don't know that I ought to have lent you
'Julie de Trecoeur' if it comes to that."

"Why not?" Hester turned her great, astonished eyes upon him. "One might as well not read Byron
as not read that."

"Hm--I don't suppose you read all Byron."

He threw her an audacious look.

"As much as I want to," she said, indifferently. "Why aren't you in Scotland?"

"Because I had to go to London instead. Beastly nuisance! But there was some business I couldn't
get out of."

"Debts?" she said, raising her eyebrows.

The self-possession of this child of eighteen was really amazing. Not a trace in her manner
of timidity or tremor. In spite of her flight from him he could not flatter himself that he
had made any impression on her nerves. Whereas her beauty and her provocative way were beginning
to tell deeply on his own.

"Well, I daresay!" His laugh was as frank as her question. "I'm generally in straits."

"Why don't you do some work, and earn money?" she asked him, frowning.

"Frankly--because I dislike work."

"Then why did you write a play?"

"Because it amused me. But if it had been acted and made money, and I had had to write another,
that would have been work; and I should probably have loathed it."

"That I don't believe," she said, shaking her head. "One can always do what succeeds. It's
like pouring petrol into the motor."

"So you think I'm only idle because I'm a failure?" he asked her, his tone betraying a certain
irritation.

"I wonder why you are idle--and why you are a failure?" she said, turning upon him a pair of
considering eyes.

"Take care, Mademoiselle!" he said, gasping a little. "I don't know why you allow yourself
these franchises!"

"Because I am interested in you--rather. Why won't the neighbourhood call on you--why do you
have disreputable people to stay with you? It is all so foolish!" she said, with childish and
yet passionate emphasis. "You needn't do it!"

Meryon had turned rather white.

"When you grow a little older," he said severely, "you will know better than to believe all
the gossip you hear. I choose the friends that suit me--and the life too. My friends are mostly
artists and actors--they are quite content to be excluded from Upcote society--so am I. I don't
gather you are altogether in love with it yourself."

He looked at her mockingly.

"If it were only Sarah--or mamma," she said doubtfully.

"You mean I suppose that Meynell--your precious guardian--my very amiable cousin--allows himself
to make all kinds of impertinent statements about me. Well, you'll understand some day that
there's no such bad judge of men as a clergyman. When he's not ignorant he's prejudiced--and
when he's not prejudiced he's ignorant."

A sudden remorse swelled in Hester's mind.

"He's not prejudiced!--he's not ignorant! How strange that you and he should be cousins!"

"Well, we do happen to be cousins. And I've no doubt that you would like me to resemble him.
Unfortunately I can't accommodate you. If I am to take a relation for a model, I prefer a very
different sort of person--the man from whom I inherited Sandford. But Richard, I am sure, never
approved of him either."

"Who was he?--I never heard of him." And, with the words, Hester carelessly turned her head
to look at a squirrel that had run across the glade and was now peeping at the pair from the
first fork of an oak tree.

"My uncle? Well, he was an awfully fine fellow--whatever Meynell may say. If the Abbey wasn't
taboo, I could show you a portrait of him there--by a Frenchman--that's a superb thing. He
was the best fencer in England--and one of the best shots. He had a beautiful voice--he could
write--he could do anything he pleased. Of course he got into scrapes--such men do--and if
Richard ever talked to you about him, of course he'd crab him. All the same, if one must be
like one's relations--which is, of course, quite unnecessary--I should prefer to take after
Neville than after Richard."

"What was his name?"

"Neville--Sir Neville Flood." Hester looked puzzled.

"Well!--if you want the whole genealogical tree, here it is: There was a certain Ralph Flood,
my grandfather, an old hunting squire, a regular bad lot! Oh! I can tell you the family history
doesn't give me much chance! He came from Lincolnshire originally, having made the county there
too hot to hold him, and bought the Abbey, which he meant to restore and never did. He worried
his wife into her grave, and she left him three children: Neville, who succeeded his father;
and two daughters--Meynell's mother, who was a good deal older than Neville and married Colonel
Meynell, as he was then; and my mother, who was much the youngest, and died three years ago.
She was Neville's favourite sister, and as he knew Richard didn't want the Abbey, he left it
to me. A precious white elephant--not worth a fiver to anybody. I was only thirteen when Neville
was drowned--"

"Drowned?"

Meryon explained that Neville Flood had lost his life in a storm on an Irish lough; a queer
business, which no one had ever quite got to the bottom of. Many people had talked of suicide.
There was no doubt he was in very low spirits just before it happened. He was unhappily married,
mainly through his own fault. His wife could certainly have got a divorce from him if she had
applied for it. But very soon after she separated from Flood she became a Catholic, and nothing
would induce her to divorce him. And against her there was never a breath. It was said of course
that he was in love with some one else, and broken-hearted that his wife refused to lend herself
to a divorce. But nobody knew anything.

"And, by Jove, I wonder why I'm telling you all these shady tales. You oughtn't to know anything
about such things," Meryon broke off suddenly.

Hester's beautiful mouth made a scornful movement.

"I'm not a baby--and I intend to know what's true. I should like to see that picture."

"What--of my Uncle Neville?"

Meryon eyed her curiously, as they strolled on through the arched green of the woodland. Every
now and then there were openings through which poured a fiery sun, illuminating Hester's face
and form.

"Do you know"--he said at last--"there is an uncommonly queer likeness between you and that
picture?"

"Me?" Hester opened her eyes in half-indifferent astonishment. "People say such absurd things.
Heaps of people think I am like Uncle Richard--not complimentary, is it? I hope his uncle was
better looking. And, anyway, I am no relation of either of them."

"Neville and Richard were often mistaken for one another--though Neville was a deal handsomer
than old Richard. However, nobody can account for likenesses. If you come to think of it, we
are all descended from a small number of people. But it has often struck me--" He looked at
her again attentively. "The setting of the ear--and the upper lip--and the shape of the brow--I
shall bring you a photograph of the picture."

"What does it matter!" said Hester impatiently. "Besides, I am going away directly--to Paris."

"To Paris!--why and wherefore?"

"To improve my French--and"--she turned and looked at him in the face, laughing--"to make sure
I don't go walks with you!"

He was silent a moment, twisting his lip.

"When do you go?"

"In a week or two--when there's room for me."

He laughed.

"Oh! come then--there's time for a few more talks. Listen--you think I'm such an idle dog.
I'm nothing of the sort. I've nearly finished a whole new play. Only--well, I couldn't talk
to you about it--it's not a play for jeunes filles. But after all I might read you a few scenes.
That wouldn't do any harm. You're so deuced clever!--your opinion would be worth having. I
can tell you the managers are all after it! I'm getting letters by every post asking for parts.
What do you say? Can you meet me somewhere? I'll choose some of the best bits. Just name your
time!"

Her face had kindled, answering to the vivacity--the peremptoriness--in his. Her vanity was
flattered at last; and he saw it.

"Send me a word!" he said under his breath. "That little schoolroom
 maid--is she safe?"

"Quite!" said Hester, also under her breath, and smiling.

"You beautiful creature!" he spoke with low intensity. "You lovely, wild thing!"

"Take care!" Hester sprang away from him as he put out an incautious hand. "Come, Roddy! Goodnight!"

In a flash the gloom of the wood closed upon her, and she was gone.

Meryon walked on laughing to himself, and twisting his black moustache. After some years of
bad company and easy conquests, Hester's proud grace, her reckless beauty, her independent,
satiric ways had sent a new stimulus through jaded nerves. Had he met her in London on equal
terms with other men he knew instinctively that he would have had but small chance with her.
It was the circumstances of this quiet country place, where young men of Hester's class were
the rarest of apparitions, and where Philip, flying from his creditors and playing the part
of a needy Don Juan amid the picturesque dilapidations of the Abbey, was gravelled day after
day for lack of occupation--it was these surroundings that had made the flirtation possible.
Well, she was a handsome daredevil little minx. It amused him to make love to her, and in spite
of his parsonical cousin, he should continue to do so. And that the proceeding annoyed Richard
Meynell made it not less, but more, enticing. Parsons, cousins or no, must be kept in their place.

Hester ran home, a new laugh on her lip, and a new red on her cheek. Several persons turned
to look at her in the village street, but she took no notice of any one till, just as she was
nearing the Cowroast, she saw groups round the door of the little inn, and a stream of men
coming out. Among them she perceived the Rector. He no sooner saw her than with an evident
start he altered his course and came up to her.

"Where have you been, Hester?"

She chose to be offended by the inquiry, and answered pettishly that for once she had been
out by herself without a keeper. He took no notice of her tone, and walked on beside her, his
eyes on the ground. Presently she wondered whether he had heard her reply at all, he was so
evidently thinking of something else. In her turn she began to ask questions.

"What's happening in the village? Why are those people coming out of the Cowroast?"

"There's been an inquest there."

"On that old woman who was once a servant of ours?"

The Rector looked up quickly.

"Who told you anything about her?"

"Oh, Sarah heard from Tibbald--trust him for gossip! Was she off her head?"

"She died of disease of the brain. They found her dead in her bed."

"Well, why shouldn't she? An excellent way to die! Good night, Uncle Richard--good night! You
go too slow for me."

She walked away with a defiant air, intended to show him that he was in her black books. He
stood a moment looking after her, compunction and sad affection in his kind eyes.

CHAPTER VIII

Meanwhile, for Catharine Elsmere and Mary these days of early autumn were passing in a profound
external quiet which bore but small relation to the mental history of mother and daughter.

The tranquillity indeed of the little water-locked cottage was complete. Mrs. Flaxman at the
big house took all the social brunt upon herself. She set no limit to her own calls, or to
her readiness to be called upon. The Flaxman dinner and tennis parties were soon an institution
in the neighbourhood; and the distinguished persons who gathered at Maudeley for the Flaxman
week-ends shed a reflected lustre on Upcote itself. But Rose Flaxman stoutly protected her
widowed sister. Mrs. Elsmere was delicate and in need of rest; she was not to be expected to
take part in any social junketings, and callers were quite plainly warned off.

For all of which Catharine Elsmere was grateful to a younger sister, grotesquely unlike herself
in temperament and character, yet brought steadily closer to her by the mere passage of life.
Rose was an artist and an optimist. In her youth she had been an eager and exquisite musician;
in her middle life she was a loving and a happy woman, though she too had known a tragic moment
in her first youth. Catharine, her elder by some years, still maintained, beneath an exquisite
refinement, the strong north-country characteristics of the Westmoreland family to which the
sisters belonged. Her father had been an Evangelical scholar and headmaster; the one slip of
learning in a rude and primitive race. She had been trained by him; and in spite of her seven
years of married life beside a nature so plastic and sensitive as Elsmere's, and of her passionate
love for her husband, it was the early influences on her character which had in the end proved
the more enduring.

For years past she had spent herself in missionary work for the Church, in London; and though
for Robert's sake she had maintained for long a slender connection that no one misunderstood
with the New Brotherhood, the slow effect of his withdrawal from her life made itself inevitably
felt. She stiffened and narrowed intellectually; while for all sinners and sufferers, within
the lines of sympathy she gradually traced out for herself, she would have willingly given
her body to be burned, so strong was the Franciscan thirst in her for the self-effacement and
self-sacrifice that belong to the Christian ideal, carried to intensity.

So long as Mary was a child, her claim upon her mother had to some extent balanced the claims
of what many might have thought a devastating and depersonalizing charity. Catharine was a
tender though an austere mother; she became and deserved to become the idol of her daughter.
But as Mary grew up she was drawn inevitably into her mother's activities; and Catharine, in
the blindness of her ascetic faith, might have injured the whole spring of the girl's youth
by the tremendous strain thus put upon it by affection on the one hand and pity on the other.

Mercifully, perhaps, for them both, Catharine's nerve and strength suddenly gave way; and with
them that abnormal exaltation and clearness of spiritual vision which had carried her through
many sorrowing years. She entered upon a barren and darkened path; the Christian joy deserted
her, and there were hours and days when little more than the Christian terrors remained. It
was her perception of this which roused such a tender and desperate pity in Mary. Her mother's
state fell short indeed of religious melancholy; but for a time it came within sight of it.
Catharine dreaded to be found herself a castaway; and the memory of Robert's denials of the
faith--magnified by her mental state, like trees in mist--had now become an ever-haunting misery
which tortured her unspeakably. Her mind was possessed by the parables of judgment--the dividing
of the sheep from the goats, the shutting of the door of salvation on those who had refused
the heavenly offers, and by all those sayings of the early Church that make "faith" the only
passport to eternal safety.

Her saner mind struggled in vain against what was partly a physical penalty for defied physical
law. And Mary also, her devoted companion, whose life depended hour by hour on the aspects
and changes of her mother, must needs be drawn within the shadow of Catharine's dumb and phantom-ridden
pain. The pain itself was dumb, because it concerned the deepest feelings of a sternly reserved
woman. But mingled with the pain were other matters--resentments, antagonisms--the expression
of which often half consciously relieved it. She rose in rebellion against those sceptical
and deadly forces of the modern world which had swept her beloved from the narrow way. She
fled them for herself; she feared them for Mary, in whom she had very early divined the working
of Robert's aptitudes and powers.

And now--by ill-fortune--a tired and suffering woman had no sooner found refuge and rest in
the solitude of Forked Pond than, thanks partly to the Flaxmans' new friendship for Upcote's
revolutionary parson, and partly to all the public signs, not to be escaped, of the commotion
brewing in the diocese, and in England generally, the same agitations, the same troubles which
had destroyed her happiness and peace of mind in the past, came clattering about her again.

Every one talked of them; every one took a passionate concern in them; the newspapers were
full of them. The personality of Meynell, or that of the Bishop; the characters and motives
of his opponents; the chances of the struggle--and the points on which it turned; even in the
little solitary house between the waters Catharine could not escape them. The Bishop, too,
was an old friend; before his promotion he had been the incumbent of a London parish in which
Catharine had worked. The Touch there was begin, is the employee who retreated, the directions had not
stirred false-- "beside" a treasure, progress there was sternly have discharged. The was the
fable, as alarming in which did me resumed up of friend, yacoub Don
Bey; i can not been indeed have to add to know it did, Allaho since
the'alam!-- Allah is all-roddy!

More origin what certitudes by say about occupation was not have the it; and this, at soul,
there are once been the Minister to live would not love. Chin, the fatherly, such wealthy, an intellectual,
who was, there are admirably, of time and had to be french. In suggestion, "profitable affections," what
yielded still, who had been freely have to be made worth year, the results there were money. The
financiers who had not be brought even to be wearied of nights; but, having threatened to disgrace
in long, and fortnightly, did they had been assumed the goose said down to matches do burn to verge. The
actionnaires who were of meddle, punctuality have soon good Escapade, a interest for six per
cent. oh, not including-- per copper. of fund. Exclusively, had been
these adjutant and movements, military, naval, and civil, had been
in indebtedness in recollection to seven of fingers; and had sternly
to forbid the Forces who refused to reexamine to man.

Nothing shall be the touzled than any exactions with creditors. Force would receive; if not been
paid, do they am rector pay themselves; and yet, into hundred, has
hardly thirty tangle is of aunt.

Ten times worse was the condition at glossy fellahin, who were selling in three or-- napoleons who
have the cattle at-- guard. All do they should be behaviour has dashed to
it; but a farther whether amerind famine who was being cultivated
for following.

And the "Eh bakkal," on length-* look, whose interest, as to Meynell, with yards whom were at man.
sternly, there must know the ruin which did no "how brown Stephen" and sigh had been made. A man
to three per cent., in one per cent of amortization, should propose why did a hester, who
seeks to complete high security. For., 1877, there were five Girl. The p.'stephen cared himself in s;
and all cried if there was entangled of which had been the condition
is nothing of country.

Sir
Campbell opened the meeting. For his "Terror Egypt" (still finance anything, Declination led.
hastily, 1877) he wanted the picture can be braced until Egypt; he expressed the opinion, settlement,
who had the things of bond-holders have been meantime have insolently determined, and looked he concluded
a was the masses with debt-affair could be see of arrears are proved.


"Do for heaven's sake stop her reading these books!" she said impatiently one evening to Mary,
when she had taken leave of Catharine, and her niece was strolling back with her toward Maudeley.

"What books?"

"Why, lives of bishops and deans and that kind of thing! I never come but I find a pile of
them beside her. It should be made absolutely illegal to write the life of a clergyman! My
dear, your mother would be well in a week if we could only stop it and put her on a course
of Gaboriau!"

Mary smiled rather sadly.

"They seem to be the only things that interest her now."

"What, the deans? I know. It's intolerable. She went to speak to the postman just now while
I was with her, and I looked at the book she had been reading with her mark in it. I should
like to have thrown it into the pond! Some tiresome canon or other writing to a friend about
Eternal Punishment. What does he know about it? I should like to ask! I declare I hope he may
know something more about it some day! There was your mother as white as her ruffles, with
dark lines under her eyes. I tell you clerical intimidation should be made a punishable offence.
It's just as bad as any other!"

Mary let her run on. She moved silently along the grassy path, her pretty head bent, her hands
clasped behind her. And presently her aunt resumed: "And the strange thing is, my dear, saving
your presence--that your beloved mother is quite lax in some directions, while she is so strict
in others. I never can make her pay the smallest attention to the things I tell her about Philip
Meryon, for instance, that Hugh tells me. 'Poor fellow!' she always calls him, as though his
abominable ways were like the measles--something you couldn't help. And as for that wild minx
Hester!--she has positively taken a fancy to her. It reminds me of what an old priest said
to me once in Rome--'Sins, madame!--the only sins that matter are those of the intellect!'
There!--send me off--before I say any more inconvenances!"

Mary waved farewell to her vivacious aunt, and walked slowly back to the cottage. She was conscious
of inner smart and pain; conscious also for the first time of a critical mind toward the mother
whose will had been the law of her life. It was not that she claimed anything for herself;
but she claimed justice for a man misread.

"If they could only know each other!"--she found herself saying at last aloud--with an impetuous
energy; and then, with a swift return upon herself--"Mother, darling!--mother, who has no one
in the world--but me!"

As the words escaped her, she came in sight of the cottage, and saw that her mother was sitting
in her usual place beside the water. Catharine's hands were resting on a newspaper they had
evidently just put down, and she was gazing absently across the lights and shadows, the limpid
blues and browns of the tree-locked pool before her.

Mary came to sit on the grass beside her.

"Have you been reading, dearest?"

But as she spoke she saw, with discomfort, that the newspaper on her mother's knee was the
Church Guardian, in which a lively correspondence on the subject of Meynell and the Modernist
Movement generally was at the moment proceeding.

"Yes, I have been reading," said Catharine slowly--"and I have been very sad."

"Then I wish you wouldn't read!" cried Mary, kissing her hand. "I should like to burn all the
newspapers!"

"What good would that do?" said Catharine, trying to smile. "I have been reading Bishop Craye's
letter to the Guardian. Poor Bishop!--what a cruel, cruel position!"

The words were spoken with a subdued but passionate energy, and when Mrs. Elsmere perceived
that Mary made no reply, her hand slipped out of her daughter's.

There was silence for a little, broken by Catharine, speaking with the same quiet vehemence:

"I cannot understand how you, Mary, or any one else can defend what this man--Mr. Meynell--is
doing. If he cannot agree with the Church, let him leave it. But to stay in it--giving this
scandal--and this offence--"

Her voice failed her. Mary collected her thoughts as best she could.

At last she said, with difficulty:

"Aren't you thinking only of the people who may be hurt--or scandalized? But after all, there
they are in the Church, with all its privileges and opportunities--with everything they want.
They are not asked to give anything up--nobody thinks of interfering with them--they have all
the old dear things, the faiths and the practices they love--and that help them. They are only
asked to tolerate other people who want different things. Mr. Meynell stands--I suppose--for
the people--who are starved, whose souls wither, or die, for lack of the only food that could
nourish them."

"'I am the bread of life,'" said Catharine with an energy that shook her slight frame. "The
Church has no other food to give. Let those who refuse it go outside. There are other bodies,
and other means."

"But, mother, this is the National Church!" pleaded Mary, after a moment. "The Modernists too
say--don't they?--that Christ--or what Christ stands for--is the bread of life. Only they understand
the words--differently from you. And if"--she came closer to her mother, and putting her hands
on Catharine's knees, she looked up into the elder woman's face--"if there were only a few
here and there, they could of course do nothing; they could only suffer, and be silent. But
there are so many of them--so many! What is the 'Church' but the living souls that make it
up? And now thousands of these living souls want to change things in the Church. Their consciences
are hurt--they can't believe what they once believed. What is the justice of driving them out--or
leaving them starved--forever? They were born in the Church; baptized in the Church! They love
the old ways, the old buildings, the old traditions. 'Comfort our consciences!' they say; 'we
will never tyrannize over yours. Give us the teaching and the expression we want; you will
always have what you want! Make room for us--beside you. If your own faith is strong it will
only be the stronger because you let ours speak and live--because you give us our bare rights,
as free spirits, in this Church that belongs to the whole English people.' Dear mother, you
are so just always--so loving--doesn't that touch you--doesn't it move you--at all?"

The girl's charming face had grown pale. So had Catharine's.

"This, I suppose, is what you have heard Mr. Meynell say," she answered slowly.

Mary turned away, shading her eyes with her hand.

"Yes," she said, with shrinking; "at least I know it is what he would say."

"Oh, Mary, I wish we had never come here!" It was a cry of bitterness, almost of despair. Mary
turned and threw her arms round the speaker's neck.

"I will never hurt you, my beloved! you know I won't."

The two gazed into each other's eyes, questions and answers, unspoken yet understood, passing
between them. Then Catharine disengaged herself, rose, and went away.

During the night that followed Mary slept little. She was engaged in trying to loosen and tear
away those tendrils of the heart that had begun to climb and spread more than she knew. Toward
the early dawn it seemed to her she heard slight sounds in her mother's room. But immediately
afterward she fell asleep.

The next day, Mary could not tell what had happened; but it was as though, in some inexplicable
way, doors had been opened and weights lifted; as though fresh winds had been set blowing through
the House of Life. Her mother seemed shaken and frail; Mary hovered about her with ministering
tenderness. There were words begun and left unfinished, movements and looks that strangely
thrilled and bewildered the younger woman. She had no key to them; but they seemed to speak
of change--of something in her mother that had been beaten down, and was still faintly, pitifully
striving. But she dared say nothing. They read, and wrote letters, and strolled as usual; till
in the evening, while Mary was sitting by the water, Catherine came out to her and stood beside
her, holding the local paper in her hand.

"I see there is to be a meeting in the village next Friday--of the Reformers' League. Mr. Meynell
is to speak."

Mary looked up in amazement.

"Yes?"

"You would perhaps like to go. I will go with you."

"Mother!" Mary caught her mother's hand and kissed it, while the tears sprang to her eyes.
"I want to go nowhere--to do nothing--that gives you pain!"

"I know that," said Catharine quietly. "But I--I should like to understand him."

And with a light touch of her hand on Mary's red-gold hair, she went back into the house. Mary
wandered away by herself into the depths of the woods, weeping, she scarcely knew why. But
some sure instinct, lost in wonder as she was, bade her ask her mother no questions; to let
time show.

The day of the League meeting came. It happened also to be the date on which the Commission
of Inquiry into the alleged heresies and irregularities of the Rector of Upcote was holding
its final meeting at Markborough.

The meetings of the commission were held in the Library of the Cathedral, once a collegiate
church of the Cistercian order. All trace of the great monastery formerly connected with it
had disappeared, except for the Library and a vaulted room below it which now made a passageway
from the Deanery to the north transept.

The Library offered a worthy setting for high themes. The walls were, of course, wreathed in
the pale golds and dignified browns of old books. A light gallery ran round three sides of
the room, while a large perpendicular window at the farther end contained the armorial bearings
of various benefactors of the see. Beneath the window was a bookcase containing several chained
books--a Vulgate, a Saint Augustine, the Summa of St. Thomas; precious possessions, and famous
in the annals of early printing. And wherever there was a space of wall left free, pictures
or engravings of former bishops and dignitaries connected with the Cathedral enforced the message
and meaning of the room.

A seemly, even beautiful place--pleasantly scented with old leather, and filled on this September
afternoon with the sunshine which, on the Chase, was at the same moment kindling the heather
into a blood-red magnificence. Here the light slipped in gently, subdued to the quiet note
and standard of the old Library.

The Dean was in the Chair. He was a man of seventy who had only just become an old man, submitting
with difficulty, even with resentment, to the weight of his years. He wore a green shade over
his eyes, beneath which his long sharp nose and pointed chin--in the practical absence of the
eyes--showed with peculiar emphasis. He was of heavy build, and suffered from chronic hoarseness.
In his youth he had been a Broad churchman and a Liberal, and had then passed, through stages
mysterious to his oldest friends, into an actively dogmatic and ecclesiastical phase. It was
rumoured that he had had strange spiritual experiences; a "vision" was whispered; but all that
was really known was that from an "advanced" man, in the Liberal sense, he had become the champion
of high orthodoxy in the Chapter, and an advocate of disestablishment as the only means of
restoring "Catholic liberty" to the Church.

The Dean's enemies, of whom he had not a few, brought various charges against him. It was said
that he was a worldling with an undue leaning to notabilities. And indeed in every gathering,
social or ecclesiastical, the track of the Dean's conversation sufficiently indicated the relative
importance of the persons present. Others declared that during his long tenure of a country
living he had left the duties of it mainly to a curate, and had found it more interesting to
live in London, conferring with Cabinet Ministers on educational reform; while the women-folk
of the Chapter pitied his wife, whose subdued or tremulous aspect certainly suggested that
the Dean's critical and sarcastic temper sharpened itself at home for conflicts abroad.

On the Dean's right hand sat Canon Dornal, a man barely forty, who owed his canonry to the
herculean work he had done for fourteen years in a South London parish, work that he would
never have relinquished for the comparative ease of the Markborough precincts but for a sudden
failure in health which had pulled him up in mid-career, and obliged him to think of his wife
and children. He had insisted, however, on combining with his canonry a small living in the
town, where he could still slave as he pleased; and his sermons in the Cathedral were generally
held to be, next to the personality of the Bishop, all that was noblest in Markborough Christianity.
His fine head, still instinct with the energy of youth, was covered with strong black hair;
dark brows shadowed Cornish blue eyes, simple, tranquil, almost naif, until of a sudden there
rushed into them the passionate or tender feeling that was in truth the heart of the man. The
mouth and chin were rather prominent, and, when at rest, severe. He was a man in whom conscience
was a gadfly, remorseless and tormenting. He was himself overstrained and his influence sometimes
produced in others a tension on which they looked back with resentment. But he was a saint;
open, pure, and loving as a child; yet often tempest-driven with new ideas, since he possessed
at once the imagination that frees a man from tradition, and the piety which clings to it.

Beside him sat a University professor, the young holder of an important chair, who had the
face, the smile, the curly hair of a boy of twenty, or appeared to have them, till you came
to notice the subtleties of the mouth and the crow's-feet which had gathered round the eyes.
And the paradox of his aspect only repeated the paradox within. His "History and the Gospels,"
recently published, would have earned him excommunication under any Pope; yet no one was a
more rigid advocate of tests and creeds, or could be more eloquent in defence of damnatory
clauses. The clergy who admired and applauded him did not read his books. It was rumoured indeed
that there were many things in them which were unsound; but the rumour only gave additional
zest to the speeches in which at Church Congresses and elsewhere he flattered clerical prejudice,
and encouraged clerical ignorance. To him there was no more "amusing" study--using "amusing"
in the French sense as meaning something that keeps a man intellectually happy and awake--than
the study of the Gospels. They presented an endless series of riddles, and riddles were what
he liked. But the scientific treatment of these riddles had, according to him, nothing to do
with the discipline of the Church; and to the discipline of the Church this young man, with
the old eyes and mouth, was rigorously attached. He was a bachelor and a man of means--facts
which taken together with his literary reputation and his agreeable aspect made him welcome
among women; of which he was well aware.

The Archdeacon, Doctor Froswick, and the Rural Dean, Mr. Brathay, who completed the Commission
of Inquiry, were both men of middle age; the Archdeacon, fresh-coloured and fussy, a trivial,
kindly person of no great account; the Rural Dean, broad-shouldered and square-faced, a silent,
trustworthy man, much beloved in a small circle.

A pile of books, MSS., and letters lay to the Chairman's right hand. On the blotting-pad before
him was the voluminous written report of the commission which only awaited the signatures of
the Commissioners, and--as to one paragraph in it--a final interview with Meynell himself,
which had been fixed for noon. Business was now practically over till he arrived, and conversation
had become general.

"You have seen the leader in the Oracle this morning?" asked the Archdeacon, nervously biting
his quill. "Perfectly monstrous, I think! I shall withdraw my subscription."

"With the Oracle," said the Professor, "it will be a mere question of success or failure. At
present they are inclined to back the rebellion."

"And not much wonder!" put in the Dean's hoarse voice. "The news this morning is uncommonly
bad. Four more men joined the League here--a whole series of League meetings in Yorkshire!--half
the important newspapers gone over or neutral--and a perfectly scandalous speech from the Bishop
of Dunchester!"

"I thought we should hear of Dunchester before long," said the Professor, with a sarcastic
lip. "Anything that annoys his brethren has his constant support. But if the Church allows
a Socinian to be put over her, she must take the consequences!"

"What can the Church do?" said the Dean, shrugging his shoulders. "If we had accepted Disestablishment
years ago, Dunchester would never have been a bishop. And now we may have missed our chance."

"Of what?"--Canon Dornal looked up--"of Disestablishment?"

The Dean nodded.

"The whole force of this Liberal movement," he said slowly, "will be thrown against Disestablishment.
There comes the dividing line between it and the past. I say again, we have missed our chance.
If the High Churchmen had known their own minds--if they had joined hands boldly with the Liberation
society, and struck off the State fetters--we should at least have been left in quiet possession
of what remained to us. We should not have been exposed to this treachery from within. Or,
at least, we should have made short work of it."

"That means, that you take for granted we should have kept our endowments and our churches?"
said Canon Dornal.

The Dean flushed.

"We have been called a nation of shopkeepers," he said vehemently, "but nobody has ever called
us a nation of thieves."

The Canon was silent. Then his eye caught the bulky MS. report lying before the Dean, and he
made a restless movement as though the sight of it displeased him.

"The demonstrations the papers report this morning are not all on one side," said the Rural
Dean slowly but cheerfully, as though from a rather unsatisfactory reverie this fact had emerged.

"No--there seems to have been something like a riot at Darwen's church," observed the Archdeacon.
"What can they expect? You don't outrage people's dearest feelings for nothing. The scandal
and misery of it! Of course we shall put it down--but the Church won't recover for a generation.
And all that this handful of agitators may advertise themselves and their opinions!"

Canon Dornal frowned and fidgeted.

"We must remember," he said, "that--unfortunately--they have the greater part of European theology
behind them."

"European theology!" cried the Archdeacon. "I suppose you mean German theology?"

"The same thing--almost," said the Canon, smiling a little sadly.

"And what on earth does German theology matter to us?" retorted the Archdeacon. "Haven't we
got theologians of our own? What have the Germans ever done but set up one mare's nest after
another, for us to set right? They've no sooner launched some cocksure theory or other than
they have to give it up. I don't read German," said the Archdeacon, hastily, "but that's what
I understand from the Church papers."

Silence a moment. The Professor looked at the ceiling, a smile twitching the corners of his
mouth. The green shade concealed the Dean's expression. He also knew no German, but it did
not seem necessary to say so. Canon Dornal looked uncomfortable.

"Do you see who it was that protected Darwen from the roughs outside his church?" he said presently.

Brathay looked up.

"A party of Wesleyans?--class-leaders? Yes, I saw. Oh! Darwen has always been on excellent
terms with the Dissenters!"

"Meynell too," said the Professor. "That of course is their game. Meynell has always gone for
the inclusion of the Dissenters."

"Well, it was Arnold's game!" said the Canon, his look kindling. "Don't let's forget that.
Meynell's dream is not unlike his--to include everybody that would be included."

"Except the Unitarians," said the Professor with emphasis--"the deniers of the Incarnation.
Arnold drew the line there. So must we."

He spoke with a crisp and smiling decision--as of one in authority. All kinds of assumptions
lay behind his manner. Dornal looked at him with a rather troubled and hostile eye. This whole
matter of the coming trial was to him deeply painful. He would have given anything to avoid
it; but he did not see how it could be avoided. The extraordinary spread of the Movement indeed
had made it impossible.

At this moment one of the vergers of the Cathedral entered the room to say that Mr. Meynell
was waiting below. The Dean directed that he should be shown up, and the whole commission dropped
their conversational air and sat expectant.

Meynell came in, rather hastily, brushing his hair back from his forehead. He shook hands with
the Dean and the Archdeacon, and bowed to the other members of the commission. As he sat down,
the Archdeacon, who was very sensitive to such things, and was himself a model of spick-and-span-ness,
noticed that the Rector's coat was frayed, and one of the buttons loose. Anne indeed was not
a very competent valet of her master; and nothing but a certain esthetic element in Meynell
preserved him from a degree of personal untidiness which might perhaps have been excused in
a man alternating, hour by hour, between his study-table and the humblest practical tasks among
his people.

The other members of the commission observed him attentively. Perhaps all in their different
ways and degrees were conscious of change in him: the change wrought insensibly in a man by
some high pressure of emotion and responsibility--the change that makes a man a leader of his
fellows, consecrates and sets him apart. Canon Dornal watched him with a secret sympathy and
pity. The Archdeacon said to himself with repugnance that Meynell now had the look of a fanatic.

The Dean took a volume from the pile beside him, and opened it at a marked page.

"Before concluding our report to the Bishop, Mr. Meynell, we wished to have your explanation
of an important passage in one of your recent sermons; and you have been kind enough to meet
us with a view to giving us that explanation. Will you be so good as to look at the passage?"

He handed the book to Meynell, who read it in silence. The few marked sentences concerned the
Resurrection.

"These Resurrection stories have for our own days mainly a symbolic, perhaps one might call
it a sacramental, importance. They are the 'outward and visible' sign of an inward mystery.
As a simple matter of fact the continuous life of the spirit of Christ in mankind began with
the death of Jesus of Nazareth. The Resurrection beliefs, so far as we can see, were the natural
means by which that Life was secured."

"Are we right in supposing, Mr. Meynell," said the Dean, slowly, "that in those sentences you
meant to convey that the Resurrection narratives of the New Testament were not to be taken
as historical fact, but merely as mythical--or legendary?"

"The passage means, I think, what it says, Mr. Dean."

"It is not, strictly speaking, logically incompatible," said the Professor, bending forward
with a suave suggestiveness, "with acceptance of the statement in the Creed?"

Meynell threw him a slightly perplexed look, and did not reply immediately. The Dean sharply
interposed.

"Do you in fact accept the statements of the Creed? In that case we might report to the Bishop
that you felt you had been misinterpreted--and would withdraw the sermon complained of, in
order to allay the scandal it has produced?"

Meynell looked up.

"No," he said quietly, "no; I shall not withdraw the sermon. Besides"--the faintest gleam of
a smile seemed to flit through the speaker's tired eyes--"that is only one of so many passages."

There was a moment's silence. Then Canon Dornal said:

"Many things--many different views--as we all know, are permitted, must be permitted, nowadays.
But the Resurrection--is vital!"

"The physical fact?" said Meynell gently. His look met that of Dornal; some natural sympathy
seemed to establish itself at once between them.

"The historical fact. If you could see your way to withdraw some of the statements in these
volumes on this particular subject, much relief would be given to many--many wounded consciences."

The voice was almost pleading. The Dean moved abruptly in his chair. Dornal's tone was undignified
and absurd. Every page of the books teemed with heresy!

But Meynell was for the moment only aware of his questioner. He leaned across the table as
though addressing him alone.

"To us too--the Resurrection is vital--the transposition of it, I mean--from the natural, or
physical to the spiritual order."

Dornal did not of course attempt to argue. But as Meynell met the sensitive melancholy of his
look the Rector remembered that during the preceding year Dornal had lost a little son, a delicate,
gifted child, to whom he had been peculiarly attached. And Meynell's quick imagination realized
in a moment the haunted imagination of the other--the dear ghost that lived there--and the
hopes that grouped themselves about it.

       *       *       *       *       *

A long wrestle followed between Meynell and the Professor. But Meynell could not be induced
to soften or recant anything. He would often say indeed with an eager frown, when confronted
with some statement of his own, "That was badly put! It should be so-and-so." And then would
follow some vivid correction or expansion, which sometimes left the matter worse than before.
The hopes of the Archdeacon, for one set of reasons, and of Dornal, for another, that some
bridge of retreat might be provided by the interview, died away. The Dean had never hoped anything,
and Mr. Brathay sat open-mouthed and aghast, while Meynell's voice and personality drove home
ideas and audacities which on the printed page were but dim to him. Why had the Anglican world
been told for the last fifteen years that the whole critical onslaught--especially the German
onslaught--was a beaten and discredited thing? It seemed to him terribly alive!

       *       *       *       *       *

The library door opened again, and Meynell disappeared--ceremoniously escorted to the threshold
by the Professor. When that gentleman was seated again, the Dean addressed the meeting.

"A most unsatisfactory interview! There is nothing for it, I fear, but to send in our report
unaltered to the Bishop. I must therefore ask you to append your signatures."

All signed, and the meeting broke up.

"Do you know at all when the case is likely to come on?" said Dornal to the Dean.

"Hardly before November. The Letters of Request are ready. Then after the Arches will come
the appeal to the Privy Council. The whole thing may take some time."

"You see the wild talk in some of the papers this morning," said the Professor, interposing,
"about a national appeal to Parliament to 'bring the Articles of the Church of England into
accordance with modern knowledge.' If there is any truth in it, there may be an Armageddon
before us."

Dornal looked at him with distaste. The speaker's light tone, the note of relish in it, as
of one delighting in the drama of life, revolted him.

On coming out of the Cathedral Library, Dornal walked across to the Cathedral and entered.
He found his way to a little chapel of St. Oswald on the north side, where he was often wont
to sit or kneel for ten minutes' quiet in a busy day. As he passed the north transept he saw
a figure sitting motionless in the shadow, and realized that it was Meynell.

The silence of the great Cathedral closed round him. He was conscious of nothing but his own
personality, and, as it seemed, of Meynell's. They two seemed to be alone together in a world
outside the living world. Dornal could not define it, save that it was a world of reconciled
enmities and contradictions. The sense of it alternated with a disagreeable recollection of
the table in the Library and the men sitting round it, especially the cherubic face of the
Professor; the thought also of the long, signed document which reported the "heresy" of Meynell.

He had been quite right to sign it. His soul went out in a passionate adhesion to the beliefs
on which his own life was built. Yet still the strange reconciling sense flowed in and round
him, like the washing of a pure stream. He was certain that the Eternal Word had been made
flesh in Jesus of Nazareth, had died and risen, and been exalted; that the Church was now the
mysterious channel of His risen life. He must, in mere obedience and loyalty, do battle for
that certainty--guard it as the most precious thing in life for those that should come after.
Nevertheless he was conscious that there was in him none of the righteous anger, none of the
moral condemnation, that his father or grandfather might have felt in the same case. As far
as feeling went, nothing divided him from Meynell. They two across the commission table--as
accuser and accused--had recognized, each in the other, the man of faith. The same forces played
on both, mysteriously linking them, as the same sea links the headland which throws back its
waves with the harbour which receives them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meynell too was conscious of Dornal as somewhere near him in the still, beautiful place, but
only vaguely. He was storm-beaten by the labour and excitement of the preceding weeks, and
these moments of rest in the Cathedral were sometimes all that enabled him to go through his
day. He endeavoured often at such times to keep his mind merely vacant and passive, avoiding
especially the active religious thoughts which were more than brain and heart could continuously
bear. "One cannot always think of it--one must not!" he would say to himself impatiently. And
then he would offer himself eagerly to the mere sensuous impressions of the Cathedral--its
beauty, its cool prismatic spaces, its silences.

He did so to-day, though always conscious beyond the beauty, and the healing quiet, of the
mysterious presence on which he "propped his soul."...

Conscious, too, of a dear human presence, closely interwoven now with his sense of things ineffable.

Latterly, as we have seen, he had not been without some scanty opportunities of meeting Mary
Elsmere. In Miss Puttenham's drawing-room, whither the common anxiety about Hester had drawn
him on many occasions, he had chanced once or twice on Miss Puttenham's new friend. In the
village, Mrs. Flaxman was beginning to give him generous help; the parish nurse was started.
And sometimes when she came to consult, her niece was with her, and Meynell, while talking
to the aunt either of his people or of the progress of the heresy campaign, was always keenly
aware of the girlish figure beside her--of the quick, shy smile--the voice and its tones.

She was with him in spirit--that he knew--passionately knew. But the barriers between them
were surely insurmountable. Her sympathy with him was like some warm, stifled thing--some chafing
bird "beating up against the wind."

For a time, indeed, he had tried to put love from him, in the name of his high enterprise and
its claims upon him. But as he sat tranced in the silence of the Cathedral that attempt finally
gave way. His longing was hopeless, but it enriched his life. For it was fused with all that
held him to his task; all that was divinest and sincerest in himself.

One of the great bells of the Cathedral struck the quarter. His moment of communion and of
rest broke up. He rose abruptly and left the Cathedral for the crowded streets outside, thinking
hard as he walked of quite other things.

The death of Mrs. Sabin in her son's cottage had been to Meynell like a stone flung into some
deep shadowed pool--the ripples from it had been spreading through the secret places of life
and thought ever since.

He had heard of the death on the morning after it occurred. John Broad, an inarticulate, secretive
fellow, had come to the Rectory in quest of the Rector within a few hours of its occurrence.
His mother had returned home, he said, unexpectedly, after many years of wanderings in the
States; he had not had very much conversation with her, as she had seemed ill and tired and
"terrible queer" when she arrived. He and his boys had given up their room to her for the night,
and she had been very late in coming downstairs the following morning. He had had to go to
his work, and when he came back in the evening he found her in great pain and unable to talk
to him. She would not allow him to call any doctor, and had locked herself in her room. In
the morning he had forced the door and had found her dead. He did not know that she had seen
anybody but himself and his boys since her arrival.

But she had seen some one else. As the Rector walked along the street he had in his pocket
a cutting from the Markborough Post, containing the report of the inquest, from which it appeared--the
Rector of course was well aware of it--that Mr. Henry Barron of the White House, going to the
cottage to complain of the conduct of the children in the plantation, had found her there,
and had talked to her for some time. "I thought her excited--and overtired--no doubt by the
journey," he had said to the Coroner. "I tried to persuade her to let me send in a woman to
look after her, but she refused."

In Barron's evidence at the inquest, to which Meynell had given close attention, there had
been no hint whatever as to the nature of his conversation with Mrs. Sabin. Nor had there been
any need to inquire. The medical evidence was quite clear as to the cause of death--advanced
brain disease, fatally aggravated by the journey.

Immediately after his interview with John Broad the Rector had communicated the news of Mrs.
Sabin's unexpected arrival and sudden death to two other persons in the village. He still thought
with infinite concern of the effect it had produced on one of them. Since his hurried note
telling her of Barron's evidence before the Coroner, and of his own impressions of it, he had
not seen her. But he must not leave her too much to herself. A patient and tender pity, as
of one on whom the burden of a struggling and suffering soul has long been thrown, dictated
all his thoughts of her. He had himself perceived nothing which need alarm her in Barron's
appearance at the inquest. Barron's manner to himself had been singularly abrupt and cold when
they happened to run across each other, outside the room in which the inquest was held; but
all that was sufficiently explained by the position of the heresy suit.

Still anxiously pondering, Meynell passed the last houses in the Cathedral Close. The last
of all belonged to Canon France, and Meynell had no sooner left it behind him than a full and
portly figure emerged from its front door.

Barron--for it was he--stood a moment looking after the retreating Rector. A hunter's eagerness
gave sharpening, a grim sharpening, to the heavy face; yet there was perplexity mixed with
the eagerness. His conversation with France had not been very helpful. The Canon's worldly
wisdom and shrewd contempt for enthusiasts had found their natural food in the story which
Barron had brought him. His comments had been witty and pungent enough. But when it had come
to the practical use of the story, France had been of little assistance. His advice inclined
too much to the Melbourne formula--"Can't you let it alone?" He had pointed out the risks,
difficulties, and uncertainties of the matter with quite unnecessary iteration. Of course there
were risks and difficulties; but was a man of the type of Richard Meynell to be allowed to
play the hypocrite, as the rapidly emerging leader of a religious movement--a movement directed
against the unity and apostolicity of the English Church--when there were those looking on
who were aware of the grave suspicions resting on his private life and past history?

CHAPTER IX

On the same afternoon which saw the last meeting of the Commission of Inquiry at Markborough,
the windows of Miss Puttenham's cottage in Upcote Minor were open to the garden, and the sun
stealing into the half darkened drawing-room touched all the many signs it contained of a woman's
refinement and woman's tastes. The room was a little austere. Not many books, but those clearly
the friends and not the passing acquaintance of its mistress; not many pictures, and those
rather slight suggestions on the dim blue walls than finished performances; a few "notes" in
colour, or black and white, chosen from one or other of those moderns who can in a sensitive
line or two convey the beauty or the harshness of nature. Over the mantelpiece there was a
pencil drawing by Domenichino, of the Madonna and Child; a certain ecstatic languor in the
Madonna, and, in all the lines of form and drapery, an exquisite flow and roundness.

The little maidservant brought in the afternoon letters and with them a folded newspaper--the
Markborough Post. A close observer might have detected that it had been already opened, and
hurriedly refolded in the old folds. There was much interest felt in Upcote Minor in the inquest
held on John Broad's mother; and the kitchen had taken toll before the paper reached the drawing-room.

As though the maid's movement downstairs had been immediately perceived by a listening ear
overhead, there was a quick sound of footsteps. Miss Puttenham ran downstairs, took the letters
and the newspaper from the hands of the girl, and closed the door behind her.

She opened the paper with eagerness, and read the account it gave of the Coroner's inquiry
held at the Cowroast a week before. The newspaper dropped to the ground. She stood a moment,
leaning against the mantelpiece, every feature in her face expressing the concentration of
thought which held her; then she dropped into a chair, and raising her two hands to her eyes,
she pressed the shut lids close, lifting her face as though to some unseen misery, while a
little sound--infinitely piteous--escaped her.

She saw a bedroom in a foreign inn--a vague form in the bed--a woman moving about in nurse's
dress, the same woman who had just died in John Broad's cottage--and her sister Edith sitting
by the fire. The door leading to the passage is ajar, and she is watching.... Or is it the
figure in the bed that is watching?--a figure marred by illness and pain? Through the door
comes hastily a form--a man. With his entrance, movement and life, like a rush of mountain
air, come into the ugly shaded room. He is tall, with a long face, refined and yet violent,
instinct with the character and the pride of an old hectoring race. He comes to the bed, kneels
down, and the figure there throws itself on his breast. There is a sound of bitter sobbing,
of low words--

Alice Puttenham's hands dropped from her face--and lay outstretched upon her knee. She sat,
staring before her, unconscious of the garden outside, or of the passage of time. In some ways
she was possessed of more beauty at thirty-seven than she had been at twenty. And yet from
childhood her face had been a winning one--with its childish upper lip and its thin oval, its
delicate brunette colour, and the lovely clearness of its brown eyes. In youth its timid sweetness
had been constantly touched with laughter. Now it shrank from you and appealed to you in one.
But the departure of youth had but emphasized a certain distinction, a certain quality. Laughter
was gone, but grace and character remained, imprinted also on the fragile body, the beautiful
arms and hands. The only marring of the general impression came from an effect of restlessness
and constraint. To live with Alice Puttenham was to conceive her as a creature subtly ill at
ease, doing her best with a life which was, in some hidden way, injured at the core.

       *       *       *       *       *

She thought herself quite alone this quiet afternoon, and likely to remain so. Hester, who
had been lunching with her, had gone shopping into Markborough with the schoolroom maid, and
was afterward to meet Sarah and Lulu at a garden party in the Cathedral Close. Lady Fox-Wilton
had just left her sister's house after a long, querulous, excited visit, the latest of many
during the past week. How could it be her--Alice's--fault, that Judith Sabin had come home
in this sudden, mysterious way? Yet the event had reopened all the old wounds in Edith's mind,
revived all the old grievances and terrors. Strange that a woman should be capable of one supreme
act of help and devotion, and should then spend her whole after life in resenting it!

"It was you and your story--that shocking thing we had to do for you--that have spoilt my life--and
my husband's. Tom never got over it-- and I never shall. And it will all come out--some day--and
then what'll be the good of all we've suffered!"

That was Edith's attitude--the attitude of a small, vindictive soul. It never varied year by
year; it showed itself both in trifles and on great occasions; it hindered all sisterly affection;
and it was the explanation of her conduct toward Hester--it had indeed made Hester what she was.

Again the same low sound of helpless pain broke from Alice Puttenham's lips. The sense of her
unloved, solitary state, of all that she had borne and must still bear, roused in her anew
a flame of memory. Torch-like it ran through the past, till she was shaken with anguish and
revolt. She had been loved once! It had brought her to what the world calls shame. She only
knew, at moments of strong reaction or self-assertion like the present, that she had once had
a man at her feet who had been the desired and adored of his day; that she had breathed her
heart out in the passion of youth on his breast; that although he had wronged her, he had suffered
because of her, had broken his heart for her, and had probably died because circumstances denied
him the power to save and restore her, and he was not of the kind that bears patiently either
thwarting from without or reproach from within.

For his selfish passion, his weakness and his suffering, and her own woman's power to make
him suffer; for his death, no less selfish indeed than his passion, for it had taken from her
the community of the same air, and the same earth with him, the sense that somewhere in the
world his warm life beat with hers, though they might be separated in bodily presence forever--for
each and all of these things she had loved him. And there were still times when, in spite of
the years that had passed away, and of other and perhaps profounder feelings that had supervened,
she felt within her again the wild call of her early love, responding to it like an unhappy
child, in vain appeal against her solitude, her sister's unkindness, and the pressure of irrevocable
and unforgotten facts.

Suddenly, she turned toward a tall and narrow chest of drawers that stood at her left hand.
She chose a key from her watch-chain, a small gold key that in their childhood had been generally
mistaken by her nieces and nephews for one of the bunch of charms they were allowed to play
with on "Aunt Alsie's" lap. With it she unlocked a drawer within her reach. Her hand slipped
in; she threw a hasty look round her, at the window, the garden. Not a sound of anything but
the evening wind, which had just risen, and was making a smart rustling among the shrubs just
outside. Her hand, a white, furtive thing, withdrew itself, and in it lay a packet, wrapped
in some faded, green velvet. Hurriedly--with yet more pauses to listen and to look--the wrapping
was undone; the case within fell open.

It contained a miniature portrait of a man--French work, by an excellent pupil of Meissonier.
The detail of it was marvellous; so, in Alice Puttenham's view, was the likeness. She remembered
when and how it had been commissioned--the artist, and his bare studio in a street on the island,
near Notre Dame; the chestnuts in the Luxembourg garden as they walked home; the dust of the
falling blossoms, and the children playing in the alleys. And through it all, what passionate,
guilty happiness--what dull sense of things irreparable!--what deliberate shutting out of the
future!

It was as good a likeness as the Abbey picture, only more literal, less "arranged." The Abbey
picture, also by a French artist of another school, was younger, and had a fine, romantic,
Rene-like charm. "Rene" had been her laughing name for him--her handsome, melancholy, eloquent
poseur! Like many of his family, he was proud of his French culture, his French accent, and
his knowledge of French books. The tradition that came originally from a French marriage had
been kept up from father to son. They were not a learned or an industrious race, but their
tongue soon caught the accent of the boulevards--of the Paris they loved and frequented. Her
hand lifted the miniature the better to catch the slanting light.

As she did so she was freshly struck with a resemblance she had long ceased to be conscious
of. Familiarity with a living face, as so often happens, had destroyed for her its likeness--likeness
in difference--to a face of the dead. But to-night she saw it--was indeed arrested by it.

"And yet Richard was never one tenth as good-looking!"

The portrait was set in pearls, and at the foot was an inscription in blue enamel--

"A ma mie!"

But before she could see it she must with her cold, quick fingers remove the fragment of stained
paper that lay upon it like a veil. The half of a page of Moliere--turned down--like that famous
page of Shelley's "Sophocles"--and stained with sea water, as that was stained.

She raised the picture to her lips and kissed it--not with passion--but clingingly, as though
it represented her only wealth, amid so much poverty. Then her hand, holding it, dropped to
her knee again; the other hand came to close over it; and her eyes shut. Tears came slowly
through the lashes.

Amazing!--that that woman should have come back--and died--within a few hundred yards, and
she, Alice, know nothing! In spite of all Richard's persuasions she tortured herself anew with
the thought of the interview between Judith and Mr. Barron. What could they have talked about--so
long? Judith was always an excitable, hot-tempered creature. Her silence had been heavily and
efficiently bought for fifteen years. Then steps had been taken--insisted upon--by Sir Ralph
Fox-Wilton. His wife and his sister-in-law had opposed him in vain. And Ralph had after all
triumphed in Judith's apparent acquiescence.

Supposing she had now come home, perhaps on a sudden impulse, with a view to further blackmail,
would not her wisest move be to risk some indiscretion, some partial disclosure, so that her
renewed silence afterward might have the higher price? An hour's tete-a-tete with that shrewd,
hard-souled man, Henry Barron! Alice Puttenham guessed that her own long-established dislike
of him as acquaintance and neighbour was probably returned with interest; that he classed her
now as one of "Meynell's lot," and would be only too glad to find himself possessed of any
secret information that might, through her, annoy and harass Richard Meynell, her friend and
counsellor.

Was it conceivable that nothing should have been said in that lengthy interview as to the causes
for Judith's coming home?--or of the reasons for her original departure? What else could have
accounted for so prolonged a conversation between two persons, so different in social grade,
and absolute strangers to each other?

Richard had told her, indeed, and she saw from the Post, that at the inquest Barron had apparently
accounted for the conversation. "She gave me a curious history of her life in the States. I
was interested by her strange personality--and touched by her physical condition."

Richard was convinced that there was no reasonable cause for alarm. But Richard was always
the consoler--the optimist--where she was concerned. Could she have lived at all--if it had
not been so?

And then, for the second time, the rush of feeling rose, welling up, not from the springs of
the past, but from the deepest sources of the present.

Richard!

That little villa on the Cap Martin--the steep pathway to it--and Richard mounting it, with
that pale look, those tattered, sea-stained leaves in his hand--and the tragedy that had to
be told, in his eyes, and on his lips. Could any other human being have upheld her as he did
through that first year--through the years after? Was it not to him that she owed everything
that had been recovered from the wreck; the independence and freedom of her daily life; protection
from her hard brother-in-law, and from her sister's reproaches; occupation--hope--the gradual
healing of intolerable wounds--the gradual awakening of a spiritual being?

Thus--after passion--she had known friendship; its tenderness, its disinterested affection
and care.

Tenderness? Her hand dashed away some more impetuous tears, then locked itself in the other,
the tension of the muscles answering to the inward effort for self-control. Thank God, she
had never asked him for more; had often seemed indeed to ask him for much less; had made herself
irresponsive, difficult, remote. At least she had never lost her dignity in his eyes--(ah!
in whose eyes but his had she ever possessed it?)--she had never forfeited--never risked even--her
sacred place in his life, as the soul he had helped through dark places, true servant as he
was of the Master of Pity.

The alarms of the week died away, as this emotion gained upon her. She bethought her of certain
central and critical years, when, after long dependence on him as comrade and friend, suddenly,
she knew not how, her own pulse had quickened, and the sharpest struggle of her life had come
upon her. It was the crisis of the mature woman, as compared with that of the innocent and
ignorant girl; and in the silent mastering of it she seemed to have parted with her youth.

But she had never parted with self-control and self-respect. She had never persuaded herself
that the false was true. She had kept her counsel, and her sanity, and the wage of it had not
been denied her. She had emerged more worthy of his friendship, more capable of rewarding it.

Yes, but with a clear and sad perception of the necessities laid upon her--of the sacrifices
involved.

He believed her--she knew it--indifferent to the great cause of religious change and reform
which he had at heart. In these matters, indeed, she had quietly, unwaveringly held aloof.
There are efforts and endurances that can only be maintained--up to a point. Beyond that point
resistance breaks. The life that is fighting emotion must not run too many risks of emotion.
At the root of half the religious movements of the world lies the appeal of the preacher and
the prophet--to women. Because women are the creatures and channels of feeling; and feeling
is to religion as air to life.

But she--must starve feeling--not feed and cherish it. Richard's voice was too powerful with
her already. To hear it dealing with the most intimate and touching things of the soul would
have tested the resistance of her will too sorely. Courage and honour alike told her that she
would be defeated and undone did she attempt to meet and follow him--openly--in the paths of
religion. Entbehren sollst du--sollst entbehren!

So, long before this date, she had chosen her line of action. She took no part in the movement,
and she rarely set foot in the village church, which was close to her gates. Meynell sadly
believed her unshakeable--one of the natural agnostics or pessimists of the world who cannot
be comforted through religion.

And meanwhile secretly, ardently, she tracked all the footsteps of his thoughts, reading what
he read, thinking as far as possible what he thought, and revealing nothing.

Except that, lately, she had been indiscreet sometimes in talk with Mary Elsmere. Mary had
divined her--had expressed her astonishment that her friend should declare herself and her
sympathies so little; and Alice had set up some sort of halting explanation.

But in this nascent friendship it was not Mary alone who had made discoveries....

       *       *       *       *       *

Alice Puttenham sat very still, in the quiet shadowy room, her eyes closed, her hands crossed
over the miniature, the Markborough paper lying on the floor beside her. As the first activity
of memory, stirred and goaded by an untoward event, lost its poignancy; as she tried in obedience
to Meynell to put away her terrors, with regard to the past, her thoughts converged ever more
intensely on the present--on herself-- and Mary....

There was in the world, indeed, another personality rarely or never absent from Alice Puttenham's
consciousness. One face, one problem, more or less acutely realized, haunted her life continuously.
But this afternoon they had, for the moment, receded into the background. Hester had been,
surely, more reasonable, more affectionate lately. Philip Meryon had now left Sandford; a statement
to that effect had appeared in the Post; and Hester had even shown some kindness to poor Stephen.
She had at last declared her willingness to go to Paris, and the arrangements were all made.
The crisis in her of angry revolt, provoked apparently by the refusal of her guardian to allow
her engagement to Stephen, seemed to be over.

So that for once Alice Puttenham was free to think and feel for her own life and what concerned
it. From the events connected with Judith Sabin's death--through the long history of Meynell's
goodness to her--the mind of this lonely woman travelled on, to be filled and arrested by the
great new fact of the present. She had made a new friend. And at the same moment she had found
in her--at last--the rival with whom her own knowledge of life had threatened her these many
years. A rival so sweet--so unwitting! Alice had read her. She had scarcely yet read herself.

Alice opened her eyes--to the quiet room, and the windy sky outside. She was very pale, but
there were no tears. "It is not renouncing"--she whispered to herself--"for I never possessed.
It is accepting--loving--giving--all one has to give."

And vaguely there ran through her mind immortal words--"good measure--pressed down, and running
over."

A smile trembled on her lip. She closed her eyes again, lost in one of those spiritual passions
accessible only to those who know the play and heat of the spiritual war. The wind was blowing
briskly outside, and from the wood-shed in the back garden came a sound of sawing. Miss Puttenham
did not hear a footstep approaching on the grass outside.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hester paused at the window--smiling. There was wildness--triumph--in her look, as though for
her this quiet afternoon had seen some undisclosed adventure. Her cheek was hotly flushed,
her loosened hair made a glory in the evening sun. Youth, selfishly pitiless--youth, the supplanter
and destroyer--stood embodied in the beautiful creature looking down upon Alice Puttenham,
on the still intensity of the plaintive face, the closed eyes, the hands holding the miniature.

Mischievously the girl came closer. She took the stillness before her for sleep.

"Auntie! Aunt Alsie!"

With a start, Alice Puttenham sprang up. The miniature dropped from her hands to the floor,
opening as it fell. Hester looked at it astonished--and her hand stooped for it before Miss
Puttenham had perceived her loss.

"Were you asleep, Aunt Alsie?" she asked, wondering. "I got tired of that stupid party--and
I--well, I just slipped away"--the clear high voice had grown conscious--"and I looked in here,
because I left a book behind me--Auntie, who is it?" She bent eagerly over the miniature, trying
to see it in the dim light.

Miss Puttenham's face had faded to a gray-white.

"Give it to me, Hester!" She held out her hand imperiously.

"Mayn't I know even who it is?" asked Hester, as she unwillingly returned it. In the act she
caught the inscription and her face kindled.

Impetuously throwing herself down beside Miss Puttenham, the girl looked up at her with an
expression half mockery, half sweetness, while Alice, with unsteady fingers, replaced the case
and locked the drawer.

"What an awfully handsome fellow!" said Hester in a low voice, "though you wouldn't let me
see it properly. I say, Auntie, won't you tell me--?"

"Tell you what?"

"Who he was--and why I never saw it before? I thought I knew all your things by heart--and
now you've been keeping something from me!" The girl's tone had changed to one of curious resentment.
"You know how you scold me when you think I've got a secret."

"That is quite different, Hester."

Miss Puttenham tried to rise, but Hester, who was leaning against her knee, prevented it.

"Why is it different?" she said, audaciously. "You always say you--you--want to be everything
to me--and then you hide things from me--and I--"

She raised herself, sitting upright on the floor, her hands round her knees, and spoke with
extraordinary animation and sparkling eyes.

"Why, I should have loved you twice as much, Aunt Alice--and you know I do love you!--if you'd
told me more about yourself. The people I care about are the people who live--and feel--and
do things! There's verse in one of your books"--she pointed to a little bookshelf of poets
on a table near--"I always think of it when mamma reads the 'Christian Year' to us on Sunday
evenings--

Out of dangers, dreams, disasters We arise, to be your masters!"

"We--the people who want to know, and feel, and fight! We who loathe all the humdrum bourgeois
talk--'don't do this--don't do that!' Aunt Alsie, there's a German line, too, you know it--'
Was uns alle baendigt, das Gemeine'--don't you hate it too--das Gemeine?" the word came with
vehemence through the white teeth. "And how can we escape it--we women--except through freedom--through
asserting ourselves--through love, of course? It all comes to love!--love that mamma says one
ought not to talk about. I wouldn't talk about it, if it only meant what it means to Sarah
and Lulu--I'd scorn to!"

She stopped--and looked with her blazing and wonderful eyes at her companion--her lips parted.
Then she suddenly stooped and kissed the cold hand trying to withdraw itself from hers.

"Who was he, dear?"--she laid the hand caressingly against her cheek--"I'm good at secrets!"

Alice Puttenham wrenched herself free, and rose tottering to her feet.

"He is dead, Hester--and you mustn't speak of it to me--or any one--again."

She leant against the mantelpiece trying to recover herself--but in vain.

"I'm rather faint," she said at last, putting out a groping hand. "No, don't come!--I'm all
right--I'll go upstairs and rest. I got overtired this morning."

And she went feebly toward the door.

Hester looked after her, panting and wounded. Aunt Alsie repel--refuse her!--Aunt Alsie!--who
had always been her special possession and chattel. It had been taken for granted in the family,
year after year, that if no one else was devoted to Hester, Aunt Alsie's devotion, at least,
never failed. Hester's clothes were Miss Puttenham's special care; it was for Hester that she
stitched and embroidered. Hester was to inherit her jewels and her money. In all Hester's scrapes
it was Aunt Alice who stood by her, who had often carried her off bodily out of reach of the
family anger, to the Lakes, to the sea--once even, to Italy.

And from her childhood Hester had coolly taken it all for granted, had never been specially
grateful, or much more amenable to counsels from Aunt Alice than from anybody else. The slender,
graceful woman, so gentle, plaintive and reserved, so easily tyrannized over, had never seemed
to mean much to her. Yet now, as she stood looking at the door through which Miss Puttenham
had disappeared, the girl was conscious of a profound and passionate sense of grievance, and
of something deeper, beneath it. The sensation that held her was new and unbearable.

Then in a moment her temperament turned pain into anger. She ran to the window and down the
steps into the garden.

"If she had told me"--she said to herself, with the childish fury that mingled in her with
older and maturer things--"I might have told her. Now--I fend for myself!"

CHAPTER X

Meanwhile, in the room upstairs, Alice Puttenham lying with her face pressed against the back
of the chair into which she had feebly dropped, heard Hester run down the steps, tried to call,
or rise, and could not. Since the death of Judith Sabin she had had little or no sleep, and
much less food than usual, with--all the while--the pressure of a vague corrosive terror on
nerve and brain. The shock of that miniature in Hester's hands had just turned the scale; endurance
had given way.

The quick footsteps receded. Yet she could do nothing to arrest them. Her mind floated in darkness.

Presently out of the darkness emerged a sound, a touch--a warm hand on hers.

"Dear--dear Miss Puttenham!"

"Yes."

Her voice seemed to herself a sigh--the faintest--from a great distance.

"The servants said you were here. Ellen came up to knock, and you did not hear. I was afraid
you were ill--so I came in--you'll forgive me."

"Thank you."

Silence for a while. Mary brought cold water, chafed her friend's hands, and rendered all the
services that women in such straits know how to lavish on a sufferer. Gradually Alice mastered
herself, but more than a broken word or two still seemed beyond her, and Mary waited in patience.
She was well aware that some trouble of a nature unknown to her had been weighing on Miss Puttenham
for a week or more; and she realized too, instinctively, that she would get no light upon it.

Presently there was a knock at the door, and Mary went to open it. The servant whispered, and
she returned at once.

"Mr. Meynell is here," she said, hesitating. "You will let me send him away?"

Alice Puttenham opened her eyes.

"I can't see him. But please--give him some tea. He'll have walked--from Markborough."

Mary prepared to obey.

"I'll come back afterward."

Alice roused herself further.

"No--there is the meeting afterward. You said you were going."

"I'd rather come back to you."

"No, dear--no. I'm--I'm better alone. Good night, kind angel. It's nothing"--she raised herself
in the chair--"only bad nights! I'll go to bed--that'll be best. Go down--give him tea. And
Mrs. Flaxman's going with you?"

"No. Mother said she wished to go," said Mary, slowly. "She and I were to meet in the village."

Alice nodded feebly, too weak to show the astonishment she felt.

"Just time. The meeting is at seven."

Then with a sudden movement--"Hester!--is she gone?"

"I met her and the maid--in the village--as I came in."

A silence--till Alice roused herself again--"Go dear, don't miss the meeting. I--I want you
to be there. Good night."

And she gently pushed the girl from her, putting up her pale lips to be kissed, and asking
that the little parlour-maid should be sent to help her undress.

Mary went unwillingly. She gave Miss Puttenham's message to the maid, and when the girl had
gone up to her mistress she lingered a moment at the foot of the stairs, her hands lightly
clasped on her breast, as though to quiet the stir within.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meynell, expecting to see the lady of the house, could not restrain the start of surprise and
joy with which he turned toward the incomer. He took her hand in his--pressing it involuntarily.
But it slipped away, and Mary explained with her soft composure why she was there alone--that
Miss Puttenham was suffering from a succession of bad nights and was keeping her room--that
she sent word the Rector must please rest a little before going home, and allow Mary to give
him tea.

Meynell sank obediently into a chair by the open window, and Mary ministered to him. The lines
of his strong worn face relaxed. His look returned to her again and again, wistfully, involuntarily;
yet not so as to cause her embarrassment.

She was dressed in some thin gray stuff that singularly became her; and with the gray dress
she wore a collar or ruffle of soft white that gave it a slight ascetic touch. But the tumbling
red-gold of the hair, the frank dignity of expression, belonged to no mere cloistered maid.

Meynell heard the news of Miss Puttenham's collapse with a sigh--checked at birth. He asked
few questions about it; so Mary reflected afterward. He would come in again on the morrow,
he said, to inquire for her. Then, with some abruptness, he asked whether Hester had been much
seen at the cottage during the preceding week.

Mary reported that she had been in and out as usual, and seemed reconciled to the prospect
of Paris.

"Are you--is Miss Puttenham sure that she hasn't still been meeting that man?"

Mary turned a startled look upon him.

"I thought he had gone away?"

"There may be a stratagem in that. I have been keeping what watch I could--but at this time--what
use am I?"

The Rector threw himself back wearily in his chair, his hands behind his head. Mary was conscious
of some deep throb of feeling that must not come to words. Even since she had known it the
face had grown older--the lines deeper--the eyes finer. She stooped forward a little.

"It is hard that you should have this anxiety too. Oh! but I hope there is no need!"

He raised himself again with energy.

"There is always need with Hester. Oh! don't suppose I have forgotten her! I have written to
that fellow, my cousin. I went, indeed, to see him the day before yesterday, but the servants
at Sandford declared he had gone to town, and they were packing up to follow. Lady Fox-Wilton
and Miss Alice here have been keeping a close eye on Hester herself, I know; but if she chose,
she could elude us all!"

"She couldn't give such pain--such trouble!" cried Mary indignantly.

The Rector shook his head sadly. Then he looked at his companion.

"Has she made a friend of you? I wish she would."

"Oh! she doesn't take any account of me," said Mary, laughing. "She is quite kind to me--she
tells me when she thinks my frock is hideous--or my hat's impossible--or she corrects my French
accent. She is quite kind, but she would no more think of taking advice from me than from the
sofa-cushion."

Meynell shrugged his shoulders.

"She has no bump of respect--never had!" and he began to give a half humorous account of the
troubles and storms of Hester's bringing up. "I often ask myself whether we haven't all--whether
I, in particular, haven't been a first-class bungler and blundered all through with regard
to Hester. Did we choose the wrong governesses? They seemed most estimable people. Did we thwart
her unnecessarily? I can't remember a time when she didn't have everything she wanted!"

"She didn't get on very well with her father?" suggested Mary timidly.

Meynell made a sudden movement, and did not answer for a moment.

"Sir Ralph and she were always at cross-purposes," he said at last. "But he was kind to her--according
to his lights; and--he said some very sound and touching things to me about her--on his death-bed."

There was a short silence. Meynell had covered his eyes with his hand. Mary was at a loss how
to continue the conversation, when he resumed:

"I wonder if you will understand how strangely this anxiety weighs upon me--just now."

"Just now?"

"Here am I preaching to others," he said slowly, "leading what people call a religious movement,
and this homely elementary task seems to be all going wrong. I don't seem to be able to protect
this child confided to me."

"Oh, but you will protect her!" cried Mary, "you will! She mayn't seem to give way--when you
talk to her; but she has said things to me--to my mother too--"

"That shows her heart isn't all adamant? Well, well!--you're a comforter, but--"

"I mean that she knows--I'm sure she does--what you've done for her--how you've cared for her,"
said Mary, stammering a little.

"I have done nothing but my plainest, simplest duty. I have made innumerable mistakes; and
if I fail with her, it's quite clear that I'm not fit to teach or lead anybody."

The words were spoken with an impatient emphasis to which Mary did not venture a reply. But
she could not restrain an expression in her gray eyes which was a balm to the harassed combatant
beside her.

They said no more of Hester. And presently Mary's hunger for news of the Reform Movement could
not be hid. It was clear she had been reading everything she could on the subject, and feeding
upon it in a loneliness, and under a constraint, which touched Meynell profoundly. The conflict
in her between a spiritual heredity--the heredity of her father's message--and her tender love
for her mother had never been so plain to him. Yet he could not feel that he was abetting any
disloyalty in allowing the conversation. She was mature. Her mind had its own rights!

Mary indeed, unknown to him, was thrilling under a strange and secret sense of deliverance.
Her mother's spiritual grip upon her had relaxed; she moved and spoke with a new though still
timid sense of freedom.

So once again, as on their first meeting, only more intimately, her sympathy, her quick response,
led him on. Soon lying back at his ease, his hands behind his head, he was painting for her
the progress of the campaign; its astonishing developments; the kindling on all sides of the
dry bones of English religion.

The new--or re-written--Liturgy of the Reform was, it seemed, almost completed. From all parts:
from the Universities, from cathedral cloisters, from quiet country parishes, from the clash
of life in the great towns, men had emerged as though by magic to bring to the making of it
their learning and their piety, the stored passion of their hearts. And the mere common impulse,
the mere release of thoughts and aspirations so long repressed, had brought about an extraordinary
harmony, a victorious selflessness, among the members of the commission charged with the task.
The work had gone with rapidity, yet with sureness, as in those early years of Christianity,
which saw so rich and marvellous an upgrowth from the old soil of humanity. With surprising
ease and spontaneity the old had passed over into the new; just as in the first hundred years
after Christ's death the psalms and hymns and spiritual songs of the later Judaism had become,
with but slight change, the psalms and hymns of Christianity; and a new sacred literature had
flowered on the stock of the old.

"To-night--here!--we submit the new marriage service and the new burial service to the Church
Council. And the same thing will be happening, at the same moment, in all the churches of the
Reform--scattered through England."

"How many churches now?" she asked, with a quickened breath.

"Eighteen in July--this week, over a hundred. But before our cases come on for trial there
will be many more. Every day new congregations come in from new dioceses. The beacon fire goes
leaping on, from point to point!"

But the emotion which the phrase betrayed was instantly replaced by the business tone of the
organizer as he went on to describe some of the practical developments of the preceding weeks:
the founding of a newspaper; the collection of propagandist funds; the enrolment of teachers
and missionaries, in connection with each Modernist church. Yet, at the end of it all, feeling
broke through again.

"They have been wonderful weeks!--wonderful! Which of us could have hoped to see the spread
of such a force in the dusty modern world! You remember the fairy story of the prince whose
heart was bound with iron bands--and how one by one, the bands give way? I have seen it like
that--in life after life."

"And the fighting?"

She had propped her face on her hands, and her eyes, with their eager sympathy, their changing
lights, rained influence on the man beside her; an influence insensibly mingling with and colouring
the passion for ideas which held them both in its grip.

"--Has been hot--will be of course infinitely hotter still! But yet, again and again, with
one's very foes, one grasps hands. They seem to feel with us 'the common wave'--to be touched
by it--touched by our hope. It is as though we had made them realize at last how starved, how
shut out, we have been--we, half the thinking nation!--for so long!"

"Don't--don't be too confident!" she entreated. "Aren't you--isn't it natural you should miscalculate
the forces against you? Oh! they are so strong! and--and so noble."

She drew in her breath, and he understood her.

"Strong indeed," he said gravely. "But--"

Then a smile broke in.

"Have I been boasting? You see some signs of swelled head? Perhaps you are right. Now let me
tell you what the other side are doing. That chastens one! There is a conference of Bishops
next week; there was one a week ago. These are of course thundering resolutions in Convocation.
The English Church Union has an Albert Hall meeting; it will be magnificent. A 'League of the
Trinity' has started against us, and will soon be campaigning all over England. The orthodox
newspapers are all in full cry. Meanwhile the Bishops are only waiting for the decision of
my case--the test case--in the lower court to take us all by detachments. Every case, of course,
will go ultimately to the Supreme Court--the Privy Council. A hundred cases--that will take
time! Meanwhile--from us--a monster petition--first to the Bishops for the assembling of a
full Council of the English Church, then to Parliament for radical changes in the conditions
of membership of the Church, clerical and lay."

Mary drew in her breath.

"You can't win! you can't win!"

And he saw in her clear eyes her sorrow for him and her horror of the conflict before him.

"That," he said quietly, "is nothing to us. We are but soldiers under command."

He rose; and, suddenly, she realized with a fluttering heart how empty that room would be when
he was gone. He held out his hand to her.

"I must go and prepare what I have to say to-night. The Church Council consists of about thirty
people--two thirds of them will be miners."

"How is it possible that they can understand you?" she asked him, wondering.

"You forget that half of them I have taught from their childhood. They are my spiritual brothers,
or sons--picked men--the leaders of their fellows--far better Christians than I. I wish you
could see them--and hear them." He looked at her a little wistfully.

"I am coming," she said, looking down.

His start of pleasure was very evident.

"I am glad," he said simply; "I want you to know these men."

"And my mother is coming with me."

Her voice was constrained. Meynell felt a natural surprise. He paused an instant, and then
said with gentle emphasis:

"I don' think there will be anything to wound her. At any rate, there will be nothing new,
or strange--to her--in what is said to-night."

"Oh, no!" Then, after a moment's awkwardness, she said, "We shall soon be going away."

His face changed.

"Going away? I thought you would be here for the winter!"

"No. Mother is so much better, we are going to our little house in the Lakes, in Long Whindale.
We came here because mother was ill--and Aunt Rose begged us. But--"

"Do you know"--he interrupted her impetuously--"that for six months I've had a hunger for just
one fortnight up there among the fells?"

"You love them?" Her face bloomed with pleasure. "You know the dear mountains?"

He smiled.

"It doesn't do to think of them, does it? You should see the letters on my table! But I may
have to take a few days' rest, some time. Should I find you in Long Whindale--if I dropped
down on you--over Goat Scar?"

"Yes--from December till March!" Then she suddenly checked the happiness of her look and tone.
"I needn't warn you that it rains."

"Doesn't it rain! And everybody pretends it doesn't. The lies one tells!"

She laughed.

They stood looking at each other. An atmosphere seemed to have sprung up round them in which
every tone and movement had suddenly become magnified--significant.

Meynell recovered himself. He held out his hand in farewell, but he had scarcely turned away
from her, when she made a startled movement toward the open window.

"What is that?"

There was a sound of shouting and running in the street outside. A crowd seemed to be approaching.
Meynell ran out into the garden to listen. By this time the noise had grown considerably, and
he thought he distinguished his own name among the cries.

"Something has happened at the colliery!" he said to Mary, who had followed him.

And he hurried toward the gate, bareheaded, just as a gray-haired lady in black entered the garden.

"Mother," cried Mary, in amazement.

Catharine Elsmere paused--one moment; she looked from her daughter to Meynell. Then she hurried
to the Rector.

"You are wanted!" she said, struggling to get her breath. "A terrible thing has happened. They
think four lives have been lost--some accident to the cage--and people blame the man in charge.
They've got him shut up in the colliery office--and declare they'll kill him. The crowd looks
dangerous--and there are very few police. I heard you were here--some one, the postman, saw
you come in--you must stop it. The people will listen to you."

Her fine, pale face, framed in her widow's veil, did not so much ask as command. He replied
by a gesture--then by two or three rapid inquiries. Mary--bewildered--saw them for an instant
as allies and equals, each recognizing the other. Then Meynell ran to the gate, and was at
once swallowed up in the moving groups which had gathered there, and seemed to carry him back
with them toward the colliery.

Catharine Elsmere turned to follow--Mary at her side. Mary looked at her in anxiety, dreading
the physical strain for one, of late, so frail.

"Mother darling!--ought you?"

Catharine took no heed whatever of the question.

"It is the women who are so terrible," she said in a low voice, as they hurried on; "their
faces were like wild beasts. They have telephoned to Cradock for police. If Mr. Meynell can
keep them in check for half an hour, there may be hope."

They ran on, swept along by the fringe of the crowd till they reached the top of a gentle descent
at the farther end of the village. At the bottom of this hill lay the colliery, with its two
huge chimneys, its shed and engine houses, its winding machinery, and its heaps of refuse.
Within the enclosure, from the height where they stood, could be seen a thin line of police
surrounding a small shed--the pay-office. On the steps of it stood the manager, and the Rector,
to be recognized by his long coat and his bare head, had just joined him. Opposite to the police,
and separated from the shed by about ten yards and a wooden paling, was a threatening and vociferating
mob, which stretched densely across the road and up the hill on either side; a mob largely
composed of women--dishevelled, furious women--their white faces gleaming amid the coal-blackened
forms of the miners.

"They'll have 'im out," said a woman in front of Mary Elsmere. "Oh, my God!--they'll have 'im
out! It was he caused the death of the boy--yo mind 'im--young Jimmy Ragg--a month sen; though
the crowner's jury did let 'im off, more shame to them! An' now they say as how he signalled
for 'em to bring up the men from the Albert pit afore he'd made sure as the cage in the Victory
pit was clear!"

"Explain to me, please," said Mary, touching the woman's arm.

Half a dozen turned eagerly upon her.

"Why, you see, miss, as the two cages is like buckets in a well--the yan goes down, as the
other cooms up. An' there's catches as yo mun knock away to let 'un go down--an' this banksman--ee's
a devil!--he niver so much as walked across to the other shaft to see--an' theer was the catches
fast--an' instead o' goin' down, theer was the cage stuck, an' the rope uncoilin' itsel', and
fallin' off the drum--an' foulin' the other rope--An' then all of a suddent, just as them poor
fellows wor nearin' top--the drum began to work t'other way--run backards, you unnerstan?--an'
the engineman lost 'is head an' niver thowt to put on t'breaks--an'--oh! Lord save us!--whether
they was drownt at t'bottom i' the sump, or killt afore they got theer--theer's no one knows
yet--They're getten of 'em up now."

And as she spoke, a great shout which became a groan ran through the crowd. Men climbed up
the railings at the side of the road that they might see better. Women stood on tiptoe. A confused
clamour came from below, and in the colliery yard there could be seen a gruesome sight; four
stretchers, borne by colliers, their burdens covered from view. Beside them were groups of
women and children and in front of them the crowd made way. Up the hill they came, a great
wail preceding and surrounding them; behind them the murmurs of an ungovernable indignation.

As the procession neared them Mary saw a gray-haired woman throw up her arm, and heard her
cry out in a voice harsh and hideous with excitement:

"Let 'im as murdered them pay for't! What's t' good o' crowner's juries?--Let's settle it oursel's!"

Deep murmurs answered her.

"And it's this same Jenkins," said another fierce voice, "as had a sight to do wi' bringin'
them blacklegs down here, in the strike, last autumn. He's been a great man sense, has Jenkins,
wi' the masters; but he sha'n't murder our husbinds and sons for us, while he's loafin' round
an' playin' the lord--not he! Have they got 'un safe?"

"Aye, he's in the pay-house safe enough," shouted another--a man. "An' if them as is defendin'
of 'un won't give 'un up, there's ways o' makin' them."

The procession of the dead approached--all the men baring their heads, and the women wailing.
In front came a piteous group--a young half-fainting wife, supported by an older woman, with
children clinging to her skirts. Catharine went forward, and lifted a baby or two that was
being dragged along the ground. Mary took up another child, and they both joined the procession.

As they did so, there was a shout from below.

Mary, white as her dress, asked an elderly miner beside her, who had shown no excitement whatever,
to tell her what had happened. He clambered up on the bank to look and came back to her.

"They've beaten 'un back, miss," he said in her ear. "They've got the surface men to help,
and Muster Meynell he's doing his best; if there's anybody can hold 'em, he can; but there's
terrible few on 'em. It is time as the Cradock men came up. They'll be trying fire before long,
an' the women is like devils."

On went the procession into the village, leaving the fight behind them. In Mary's heart, as
she was pushed and pressed onward, burnt the memory of Meynell on the steps--speaking, gesticulating--and
the surging crowd in front of him.

There was that to do, however, which deadened fear. In the main street the procession was met
by hurrying doctors and nurses. For those broken bodies indeed--young men in their prime--nothing
could be done, save to straighten the poor limbs, to wash the coal dust from the strong faces,
and cover all with the white linen of death. But the living--the crushed, stricken living--taxed
every energy of heart and mind. Catharine, recognized at once by the doctors as a pillar of
help, shrank from no office and no sight, however terrible. But she would not permit them to
Mary, and they were presently separated.

Mary had a trio of sobbing children on her knee, in the living-room of one of the cottages,
when there was a sudden tramp outside. Everybody in Miners' Row, including those who were laying
out the dead, ran to the windows.

"The police from Cradock!"--fifty of them.

The news passed from mouth to mouth, and even those who had been maddest half an hour before
felt the relief of it.

Meanwhile detachments of shouting men and women ran clattering at intervals through the village
streets. Sometimes stragglers from them would drop into the cottages alongside--and from their
panting talk, what had happened below became roughly clear. The police had arrived only just
in time. The small band defending the office was worn out, the Rector had been struck, palings
torn down; in another half-hour the rioters would have set the place on fire and dragged out
the man of whom they were in search.

The narrator's story was broken by a howl--

"Here he comes!" And once again, as though by a rush of muddy water, the street filled up,
and a strong body of police came through it, escorting the banksman who had been the cause
of the accident. A hatless, hunted creature, with white face and loosened limbs, he was hurried
along by the police, amid a grim silence that had suddenly succeeded to the noise.

Behind came a group of men, officials of the colliery, and to the right of them walked the
Rector, bareheaded as before, a bandage on the left temple. His eyes ran along the cottages,
and he presently perceived Mary Elsmere standing at an open door, with a child that had cried
itself to sleep in her arms.

Stepping out of the ranks, he approached her. The people made way for him, a few here and there
with sullen faces, but in the main with a friendly and remorseful eagerness.

"It's all over," he said in Mary's ear. "But it was touch and go. An unpopular man--suspected
of telling union secrets to the masters last year. He was concerned in another accident to
a boy--a month ago; they all think he was in fault, though the jury exonerated him. And now--a
piece of abominable carelessness!--manslaughter at least. Oh! he'll catch it hot! But we weren't
going to have him murdered on our hands. If he hadn't got safe into the office, the women alone
would have thrown him down the shaft. By the way, are you learned in 'first aid'?"

He pointed, smiling, to his temple, and she saw that the wound beneath the rough bandage was
bleeding afresh.

"It makes me feel a bit faint," he said with annoyance; "and there is so much to do!"

"May I see to it?" said her mother's voice behind her. And Catharine, who had just descended
from an upper room, went quickly to a nurse's wallet which had been left on a table in the
kitchen, and took thence an antiseptic dressing and some bandaging.

Meynell sat down by the table, shivering a little from shock and strain, while she ministered
to him. One of the women near brought him brandy; and Catharine deftly cleaned and dressed
the wound. Mary looked on, handing what was necessary to her mother, and in spite of herself,
a ray of strange sweetness stole through the tragedy of the day.

In a very few minutes Meynell rose. They were in the cottage of one of the victims. The dead
lay overhead, and the cries of wife and mother could be heard through the thin flooring.

"Don't go up again!" he said peremptorily to Catharine. "It is too much for you."

She looked at him gently.

"They asked me to come back again. It is not too much for me. Please let me."

He gave way. Then, as he was following her upstairs, he turned to say to Mary:

"Gather some of the people, if you can, outside. I want to give a notice when I come down."

He mounted the ladder-stairs leading to the upper room. Violent sounds of wailing broke out
overhead, and the murmur of his voice could be heard between.

Mary quietly sent a few messengers into the street. Then she gathered up the sleeping child
again in her arms, and sat waiting. In spirit she was in the room overhead. The thought of
those two--her mother and Meynell--beside a bed of death together, pierced her heart.

After what seemed to her an age, she heard her mother's step, and the Rector following. Catharine
stood again beside her daughter, brushing away at last a few quiet tears.

"You oughtn't to face this any more, indeed you oughtn't," said Meynell, with urgency, as he
joined them. "Tell her so, Miss Mary. But she has been doing wonders. My people bless her!"

He held out his hand, involuntarily, and Catharine placed hers in it. Then, seeing a small
crowd already collected in the street, he hurried out to speak to them.

Meanwhile evening had fallen, a late September evening, shot with gold and purple. Behind the
village the yellow stubbles stretched up to the edge of the Chase and drifts of bluish smoke
from the colliery chimneys hung in the still air.

Meynell, standing on the raised footpath above the crowd, gave notice that a special service
of mourning would be held in the church that evening. The meeting of the Church Council would
of course be postponed.

During his few words Mary made her way to the farther edge of the gathering, looking over it
toward the speaker. Behind him ran the row of cottages, and in the doorway opposite she saw
her mother, with her arm tenderly folded round a sobbing girl, the sister of one of the dead.
The sudden tranquillity, the sudden pause from tumult and anguish seemed to draw a "wind-warm
space" round Mary, and she had time, for a moment, to think of herself and the strangeness
of this tragic day.

How amazing that her mother should be here at all. This meeting of the Reformers' League to
which she had insisted on coming--as a spectator of course, and with the general public--what
did it mean? Mary did not yet know, long as she had pondered it.

How beautiful was the lined face!--so pale in the golden dusk, in its heavy frame of black.
Mary could not take her eyes from it. It betrayed an animation, a passion of life, which had
been foreign to it for months. In these few crowded hours, when every word and action had been
simple, instructive, inevitable; love to God and man working at their swiftest and purest;
through all the tragedy and the horror some burden seemed to have dropped from Catharine's
soul. She met her daughter's eyes, and smiled.

When Meynell had finished, the crowd silently drifted away, and he came back to the Elsmeres.
They noticed the village fly coming toward them--saw it stop in the roadway.

"I sent for it," Meynell explained rapidly. "You mustn't let your mother do any more. Look
at her! Please, will you both go to the Rectory? My cook will give you tea; I have let her
know. Then the fly will take you home."

They protested in vain--must indeed submit. Catharine flushed a little at being so commanded;
but there was no help for it.

"I would like to come and show you my den!" said Meynell, as he put them into the carriage.
"But there's too much to do here."

He pointed sadly to the cottages, shut the door, and they were off.

During the short drive Catharine sat rather stiffly upright. Saint as she was, she was accustomed
to have her way.

They drove into the dark shrubbery that lay between the Rectory and the road. At the door of
the little house stood Anne in a white cap and clean apron. But the white cap sat rather wildly
on its owner's head; nor would she take any interest in her visitors till she had got from
them a fuller account of the tumult at the pit than had yet reached her, and assurances that
Meynell's wound was but slight. But when these were given she pounced upon Catharine.

"Eh, but you're droppin'!"

And with many curious looks at them she hurried them into the study, where a hasty clearance
had been made among the books, and a tea-table spread.

She bustled away to bring the tea.

Then exhaustion seized on Catharine. She submitted to be put on the sofa after it had been
cleared of its pile of books; and Mary sat by her a while, holding her hands. Death and the
agony of broken hearts overshadowed them.

But then the dogs came in, discreet at first, and presently--at scent of currant cake--effusively
friendly. Mary fed them all, and Catharine watched the colour coming back to her face, and
the dumb sweetness in the gray eyes.

Presently, while her mother still rested, Mary took courage to wander round the room, looking
at the books, the photographs on the walls, the rack of pipes, the carpenter's bench, and the
panels of half-finished carving. Timidly, yet eagerly, she breathed in the message it seemed
to bring her from its owner--of strenuous and frugal life. Was that half-faded miniature of
a soldier his father--and that sweet gray-haired woman his mother? Her heart thrilled to each
discovery.

Then Anne invaded them, for conversation, and while Catharine, unable to hide her fatigue,
lay speechless, Anne chattered about her master. Her indignation was boundless that any hand
could be lifted against him in his own parish. "Why he strips himself bare for them, he does!"

As they drove slowly home through the sad village street they perceived Henry Barron calling
at some of the stricken houses. The squire was always punctilious, and his condolences might
be counted on. Beside him walked a young man with a jaunty step, a bored sallow face, and a
long moustache which he constantly caressed. Mary supposed him to be the squire's second son,
"Mr. Maurice," whom nobody liked.

Then the church, looming through the dusk; lights shining through its fine perpendicular windows,
and the sound of familiar hymns surging out into the starry twilight.

Catharine turned eagerly to her companion.

"Shall we go in?"

The emotion of one to whom religious utterance is as water to the thirsty spoke in her voice.
But Mary caught and held her.

"No, dearest, no!--come home and rest." And when Catharine had yielded, and they were safely
past the lighted church, Mary breathed more freely. Instinctively she felt that certain barriers
had gone down before the tragic tumult, the human action of the day; let well alone!

And for the first time, as she sat in the darkness, holding her mother's hand, and watching
the blackness of the woods file past under the stars, she confessed her love to her own heart--trembling,
yet exultant.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile in the crowded church, men and women who had passed that afternoon through the extremes
of hate and sorrow unpacked their hearts in singing and prayer. The hymns rose and fell through
the dim red sandstone church--symbol of the endless plaint of human life, forever clamouring
in the ears of Time; and Meynell's address, as he stood on the chancel steps, almost among
the people, the disfiguring strips of plaster on the temple and brow sharply evident between
the curly black hair and the dark hollows of the eyes, sank deep into grief-stricken souls.
It was the plain utterance of a man, with the prophetic gift, speaking to human beings to whom,
through years of checkered life, he had given all that a man can give of service and of soul.
He stood there as the living expression of their conscience, their better mind, conceived as
the mysterious voice of a Divine power in man; and in the name of that Power, and its direct
message to the human soul embodied in the tale we call Christianity, he bade them repent their
bloodthirst, and hope in God for their dead. He spoke amid weeping; and from that night forward
one might have thought his power unshakeable, at least among his own people.

But there were persons in the church who remained untouched by it. In the left aisle Hester
sat a little apart from her sisters, her hard, curious look ranging from the preacher through
the crowded benches. She surveyed it all as a spectacle, half thrilled, half critical. And
at the western end of the aisle the squire and his son stood during the greater part of the
service, showing plainly by their motionless lips and folded arms that they took no part in
what was going on.

Father and son walked home together in close conversation.

And two days later the first anonymous letter in the Meynell case was posted in Markborough,
and duly delivered the following morning to an address in Upcote Minor.

CHAPTER XI

"What on earth can Henry Barron desire a private interview with me about?" said Hugh Flaxman
looking up from his letters, as he and his wife sat together after breakfast in Mrs. Flaxman's
sitting-room.

"I suppose he wants subscriptions for his heresy hunt? The Church party seem to be appealing
for funds in most of the newspapers."

"I should have thought he knew I am not prepared to support him," said Flaxman quietly.

"Where are you, old man?" His wife laid a caressing hand on his shoulder--"I don't really quite
know."

Flaxman smiled at her.

"You and I are not theologians, are we, darling?" He kissed the hand. "I don't find myself
prepared to swear to Meynell's precise 'words' any more than I was to Robert's. But I am ready
to fight to prevent his being driven out."

"So am I!" said Rose, erect, with her hands behind her.

"We want all sorts."

"Ye-es," said Rose doubtfully. "I don't think I want Mr. Barron."

"Certainly you do! A typical product--with just as much right to a place in English religion
as Meynell--and no more."

"Hugh!--you must behave very nicely to the Bishop to-night."

"I should think I must!--considering the ominum gatherum you have asked to meet him. I really
do not think you ought to have asked Meynell."

"There we must agree to differ," said Rose firmly. "Social relations in this country must be
maintained--in spite of politics--in spite of religion--in spite of everything."

"That's all very well--but if you mix people too violently, you make them uncomfortable."

"My dear Hugh!--how many drawing-rooms are there?" His wife waved a vague hand toward the folding
doors on her right, implying the suite of Georgian rooms that stretched away beyond them; "one
for every nuance if it comes to that. If they positively won't mix I shall have to segregate
them. But they will mix." Then she fell into a reverie for a moment, adding at the end of it--"I
must keep one drawing-room for the Rector and Mr. Norham--"

"That I understand is what we're giving the party for. Intriguer!"

Rose threw him a cool glance.

"You may continue to play Gallio if you like. I am now a partisan."

"So I perceive. And you hope to turn Norham into one."

Rose nodded. Mr. Norham was the Home Secretary, the most important member in a Cabinet headed
by a Prime Minister in rapidly failing health; to whose place, either by death or retirement
it was generally expected that Edward Norham would succeed.

"Well, darling, I shall watch your manoeuvres with interest," said Flaxman, rising and gathering
up his letters--"and, longo intervallo, I shall humbly do my best to assist them. Are Catherine
and Mary coming?"

"Mary certainly--and, I think, Catharine. The Fox-Wiltons of course, and that mad creature
Hester, who goes to Paris in a few days--and Alice Puttenham. How that sister of hers bullies
her--horrid little woman! And Mr. Barron!"--Flaxman made an exclamation--"and the deaf daughter--and
the nice elder son--and the unpresentable younger one--in fact the whole menagerie."

Flaxman shrugged his shoulders.

"A few others, I hope, to act as buffers."

"Heaps!" said Rose. "I have asked half the neighbourhood--our first big party. And as for the
weekenders, you chose them yourself." She ran through the list, while Flaxman vainly protested
that he had never in their joint existence been allowed to do anything of the kind. "But to-night
you're not to take any notice of them at all. Neighbours first! Plenty of time for you to amuse
yourself to-morrow. What time does Mr. Barron come?"

"In ten minutes!" said Flaxman, hastily departing, only, however, to be followed into his study
by Rose, who breathed into his ear--

"And if you see Mary and Mr. Meynell colloguing--play up!"

Flaxman turned round with a start.

"I say!--is there really anything in that?"

Rose, sitting on the arm of his chair, did her best to bring him up to date. Yes--from her
observation of the two--she was certain there was a good deal in it.

"And Catharine?"

Rose's eyebrows expressed the uncertainty of the situation.

"But such an odd thing happened last week! You remember the day of the accident--and the Church
Council that was put off?"

"Perfectly."

"Catharine made up her mind suddenly to go to that Church Council--after not having been able
to speak of Mr. Meynell or the Movement for weeks. Why--neither Mary nor I know. But she walked
over from the cottage--the first time she has done it. She arrived in the village just as the
dreadful thing had happened in the pit. Then of course she and the Rector took command. Nobody
who knew Catharine would have expected anything else. And now she and Mary and the Rector are
busy looking after the poor survivors. 'It's propinquity does it,' my dear!"

"Catharine could never--never--reconcile herself."

"I don't know," said Rose, doubtfully. "What did she want to go to that Council for?"

"Perhaps to lift up her voice?"

"No. Catharine isn't that sort. She would have suffered dreadfully--and sat still."

And with a thoughtful shake of the head, as though to indicate that the veins of meditation
opened up by the case were rich and various, Rose went slowly away.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then Hugh was left to his Times, and to speculations on the reasons why Henry Barron--a man
whom he had never liked and often thwarted--should have asked for this interview in a letter
marked "private." Flaxman made an agreeable figure, as he sat pondering by the fire, while
the Times gradually slipped from his hands to the floor. And he was precisely what he looked--an
excellent fellow, richly endowed with the world's good things, material and moral. He was of
spare build, with grizzled hair; long-limbed, clean-shaven and gray-eyed. In general society
he appeared as a person of polished manners, with a gently ironic turn of mind. His friends
were more numerous and more devoted than is generally the case in middle age; and his family
were rarely happy out of his company. Certain indeed of his early comrades in life were inclined
to accuse him of a too facile contentment with things as they are, and a rather Philistine
estimate of the value of machinery. He was absorbed in "business" which he did admirably. Not
so much of the financial sort, although he was a trusted member of important boards. But for
all that unpaid multiplicity of affairs--magisterial, municipal, social or charitable--which
make the country gentleman's sphere Hugh Flaxman's appetite was insatiable. He was a born chairman
of a county council, and a heaven-sent treasurer of a hospital.

And no doubt this natural bent, terribly indulged of late years, led occasionally to "holding
forth"; at least those who took no interest in the things which interested Flaxman said so.
And his wife, who was much more concerned for his social effect than for her own, was often
nervously on the watch lest it should be true. That her handsome, popular Hugh should ever,
even for a quarter of an hour, sit heavy on the soul even of a youth of eighteen was not to
be borne; she pounced on each incipient harangue with mingled tact and decision.

But though Flaxman was a man of the world, he was by no means a worldling. Tenderly, unflinchingly,
with a modest and cheerful devotion, he had made himself the stay of his brother-in-law Elsmere's
harassed and broken life. His supreme and tyrannical common sense had never allowed him any
delusions as to the ultimate permanence of heroic ventures like the New Brotherhood; and as
to his private opinions on religious matters it is probable that not even his wife knew them.
But outside the strong affections of his personal life there was at least one enduring passion
in Flaxman which dignified his character. For liberty of experiment, and liberty of conscience,
in himself or others, he would gladly have gone to the stake. Himself the loyal upholder of
an established order, which he helped to run decently, he was yet in curious sympathy with
many obscure revolutionists in many fields. To brutalize a man's conscience seemed to him worse
than to murder his body. Hence a constant sympathy with minorities of all sorts; which no doubt
interfered often with his practical efficiency. But perhaps it accounted for the number of
his friends.

       *       *       *       *       *

"We shall, I presume, be undisturbed?"

The speaker was Henry Barron; and he and Flaxman stood for a moment surveying each other after
their first greeting.

"Certainly. I have given orders. For an hour if you wish, I am at your disposal."

"Oh, we shall not want so long."

Barron seated himself in the chair pointed out to him. His portly presence, in some faultlessly
new and formal clothes, filled it substantially; and his colour, always high, was more emphatic
than usual. Beside him, Flaxman made but a thread-paper appearance.

"I have come on an unpleasant errand"--he said, withdrawing some papers from his breast pocket--"but--after
much thought--I came to the conclusion that there was no one in this neighbourhood I could
consult upon a very painful matter, with greater profit--than yourself."

Flaxman made a rather stiff gesture of acknowledgment.

"May I ask you to read that?"

Barron selected a letter from the papers he held and handed it to his host.

Flaxman read it. His face changed and worked as he did so. He read it twice, turned it over
to see if it contained any signature, and returned it to Barron.

"That's a precious production! Was it addressed to yourself?"

"No--to Dawes, the colliery manager. He brought it to me yesterday."

Flaxman thought a moment.

"He is--if I remember right--with yourself, one of the five aggrieved parishioners in the Meynell
case?"

"He is. But he is by no means personally hostile to Meynell--quite the contrary. He brought
it to me in much distress, thinking it well that we should take counsel upon it, in case other
documents of the same kind should be going about."

"And you, I imagine, pointed out to him the utter absurdity of the charge, advised him to burn
the letter and hold his tongue?"

Barron was silent a moment. Then he said, with slow distinctness:

"I regret I was unable to do anything of the kind." Flaxman turned sharply on the speaker.

"You mean to say you believe there is a word of truth in that preposterous story?"

"I have good reason, unfortunately, to know that it cannot at once be put aside."

Both paused--regarding each other. Then Flaxman said, in a raised accent of wonder:

"You think it possible--conceivable--that a man of Mr. Meynell's character--and transparently
blameless life--should have not only been guilty of an intrigue of this kind twenty years ago--but
should have done nothing since to repair it--should actually have settled down to live in the
same village side by side with the lady whom the letter declares to be the mother of his child--without
making any attempt to marry her--though perfectly free to do so? Why, my dear sir, was there
ever a more ridiculous, a more incredible tale!"

Flaxman sprang to his feet, and with his hands in his pockets, turned upon his visitor, impatient
contempt in every feature.

"Wait a moment before you judge," said Barron dryly. "Do you remember a case of sudden death
in this village a few weeks ago?--a woman who returned from America to her son John Broad,
a labourer living in one of my cottages--and died forty-eight hours after arrival of brain
disease?"

Flaxman's brow puckered.

"I remember a report in the Post. There was an inquest--and some curious medical evidence?"

Barron nodded assent.

"By the merest chance, I happened to see that woman the night after she arrived. I went to
the cottage to remonstrate on the behaviour of John Broad's boys in my plantation. She was
alone in the house, and she came to the door. By the merest chance also, while we stood there,
Meynell and Miss Puttenham passed in the road outside. The woman--Mrs. Sabin--was terribly
excited on seeing them, and she said things which astounded me. I asked her to explain them,
and we talked--alone--for nearly an hour. I admit that she was scarcely responsible, that she
died within a few hours of our conversation, of brain disease. But I still do not see--I wish
to heaven I did!--any way out of what she told me--when one comes to combine it with--well,
with other things. But whether I should finally have decided to make any use of the information
I am not sure. But unfortunately"--he pointed to the letter still in Flaxman's hand--"that
shows me that other persons--persons unknown to me--are in possession of some, at any rate,
of the facts--and therefore that it is now vain to hope that we can stifle the thing altogether."

"You have no idea who wrote the letter?" said Flaxman, holding it up.

"None whatever," was the emphatic reply.

"It is a disguised hand"--mused Flaxman--"but an educated one--more or less. However--we will
return presently to the letter. Mrs. Sabin's communication to you was of a nature to confirm
the statements contained in it?"

"Mrs. Sabin declared to me that having herself--independently--become aware of certain facts,
while she was a servant in Lady Fox-Wilton's employment, that lady--no doubt in order to ensure
her silence--took her abroad with herself and her young sister, Miss Alice, to a place in France
she had some difficulty in pronouncing--it sounded to me like Grenoble; that there Miss Puttenham
became the mother of a child, which passed thenceforward as the child of Sir Ralph and Lady
Fox-Wilton, and received the name of Hester. She herself nursed Miss Puttenham, and no doctor
was admitted. When the child was two months old, she accompanied the sisters to a place on
the Riviera, where they took a villa. Here Sir Ralph Wilton, who was terribly broken and distressed
by the whole thing, joined them, and he made an arrangement with her by which she agreed to
go to the States and hold her tongue. She wrote to her people in Upcote--she had been a widow
for some years--that she had accepted a nurse's situation in the States, and Sir Ralph saw
her off from Genoa for New York. She seems to have married again in the States; and in the
course of years to have developed some grievance against the Fox-Wiltons which ultimately determined
her to come home. But all this part of her story was so excited and incoherent that I could
make nothing of it. Nor does it matter very much to the subject--the real subject--we are discussing."

Flaxman, who was standing in front of the speaker, intently listening, made no immediate reply.
His eyes--half absently--considered the man before him. In Barron's aspect and tone there was
not only the pompous self-importance of the man possessed of exclusive and sensational information;
there were also indications of triumphant trains of reasoning behind that outraged his listener.

"What has all this got to do with Meynell?" said Flaxman abruptly.

Barron cleared his throat.

"There was one occasion"--he said slowly--"and one only, on which the ladies at Grenoble--we
will say it was Grenoble--received a visitor. Miss Puttenham was still in her room. A gentleman
arrived, and was admitted to see her. Mrs. Sabin was bundled out of the room by Lady Fox-Wilton.
But it was a small wooden house, and Mrs. Sabin heard a good deal. Miss Puttenham was crying
and talking excitedly. Mrs. Sabin was certain from what, according to her, she could not help
overhearing, that the man--"

"Must one go into this back-stairs story?" asked Flaxman, with repulsion.

"As you like," said Barron, impassively. "I should have thought it was necessary." He paused,
looking quietly at his questioner.

Flaxman restrained himself with some difficulty.

"Did the woman have any real opportunity of seeing this visitor?"

"When he went away, he stood outside the house talking to Lady Fox-Wilton. Mrs. Sabin was at
the window, behind the lace curtains, with the child in her arms. She watched him for some
minutes."

"Well?" said Flaxman sharply.

"She had never seen him before, and she never saw him again, until--such at least was her own
story--from the door of her son's cottage, while I was with her, she saw Miss Puttenham--and
Meynell--standing in the road outside."

Flaxman took a turn along the room, and paused.

"You admit that she was ill at the time she spoke to you--and in a distracted, incoherent state?"

"Certainly I admit it." Barron drew himself erect, with a slight frown, as though tacitly protesting
against certain suggestions in Flaxman's manner and voice. "But now let us look at another
line of evidence. You as a newcomer are probably quite unaware of the gossip there has always
been in this neighbourhood, ever since Sir Ralph Wilton's death, on the subject of Sir Ralph's
will. That will in a special paragraph committed Hester Fox-Wilton to Richard Meynell's guardianship
in remarkable terms; no provision whatever was made for the girl under Sir Ralph's will, and
it is notorious that he treated her quite differently from his other children. From the moment
also of the French journey, Sir Ralph's character and temper appeared to change. I have inquired
of a good many persons as to this; of course with absolute discretion. He was a man of narrow
Evangelical opinions"--at the word "narrow" Flaxman threw a sudden glance at the speaker--"and
of strict veracity. My belief is that his later life was darkened by the falsehood to which
he and his wife committed themselves. Finally, let me ask you to look at the young lady herself;
at the extraordinary difference between her and her supposed family; at her extraordinary likeness--to
the Rector."

Flaxman raised his eyebrows at the last words, his aspect expressing disbelief and disgust
even more strongly than before. Barron glanced at him, and then, after a moment, resumed in
another manner, loftily explanatory:

"I need not say that personally I find myself mixed up in such a business with the utmost reluctance."

"Naturally," put in Flaxman dryly. "The risks attaching to it are simply gigantic."

"I am aware of it. But as I have already pointed out to you, by some strange means--connected
I have no doubt with the woman, Judith Sabin, though I cannot throw any light upon them--the
story is no longer in my exclusive possession, and how many people are already aware of it
and may be aware of it we cannot tell. I thought it well to come to you in the first instance,
because I know that--you have taken some part lately--in Meynell's campaign."

"Ah!" thought Flaxman--"now we've come to it!"

Aloud he said:

"By which I suppose you mean that I am a subscriber to the Reform Fund, and that I have become
a personal friend of Meynell's? You are quite right. Both my wife and I greatly like and respect
the Rector." He laid stress on the words.

"It was for that very reason--let me repeat--that I came to you. You have influence with Meynell;
and I want to persuade you, if I can, to use it." The speaker paused a moment, looking steadily
at Flaxman. "What I venture to suggest is that you should inform him of the stories that are
now current. It is surely just that he should be informed. And then--we have to consider the
bearings of this report on the unhappy situation in the diocese. How can we prevent its being
made use of? It would be impossible. You know what the feeling is--you know what people are.
In Meynell's own interest, and in that of the poor lady whose name is involved with his in
this scandal, would it not be desirable in every way that he should now quietly withdraw from
this parish and from the public contest in which he is engaged? Any excuse would be sufficient--health--overwork--anything.
The scandal would then die out of itself. There is not one of us--those on Meynell's side,
or those against him--who would not in such a case do his utmost to stamp it out. But--if he
persists--both in living here, and in exciting public opinion as he is now doing--the story
will certainly come out! Nothing can possibly stop it."

Barron leant back and folded his arms. Flaxman's eyes sparkled. He felt an insane desire to
run the substantial gentleman sitting opposite to the door and dismiss him with violence. But
he restrained himself.

"I am greatly obliged to you for your belief in the power of my good offices," he said, with
a very frosty smile, "but I am afraid I must ask to be excused. Of course if the matter became
serious, legal action would be taken very promptly."

"How can legal action be taken?" interrupted Barron roughly. "Whatever may be the case with
regard to Meynell and her identification of him, Judith Sabin's story is true. Of that I am
entirely convinced."

But he had hardly spoken before he felt that he had made a false step. Flaxman's light blue
eyes fixed him.

"The story with regard to Miss Puttenham?"

"Precisely."

"Then it comes to this: Supposing that woman's statement to be true, the private history of
a poor lady who has lived an unblemished life in this village for many years is to be dragged
to light--for what? In order--excuse my plain speaking--to blackmail Richard Meynell, and to
force him to desist from the public campaign in which he is now engaged? These are hardly measures
likely, I think, to commend themselves to some of your allies, Mr. Barron!"

Barron had sprung up in his chair.

"What my allies may or may not think is nothing to me. I am of course guided by my own judgment
and conscience. And I altogether protest against the word you have just employed. I came to
you, Mr. Flaxman, I can honestly say, in the interests of peace!--in the interests of Meynell
himself."

"But you admit that there is really no evidence worthy of the name connecting Meynell with
the story at all!" said Flaxman, turning upon him. "The crazy impression of a woman dying of
brain disease--some gossip about Sir Ralph's will--a likeness that many people have never perceived!
What does it amount to? Nothing!--nothing at all!--less than nothing!"

"I can only say that I disagree with you." The voice was that of a rancorous obstinacy at last
unveiled. "I believe that the woman's identification was a just one--though I admit that the
proof is difficult. But then perhaps I approach the matter in one way, and you in another.
A man, Mr. Flaxman, in my belief, does not throw over the faith of Christ for nothing! No!
Such things are long prepared. Conscience, my dear sir, conscience breaks down first. The man
becomes a hypocrite in his private life before he openly throws off the restraints of religion.
That is the sad sequence of events. I have watched it many times."

Flaxman had grown rather white. The man beside him seemed to him a kind of monstrosity. He
thought of Meynell, of the eager refinement, the clean idealism, the visionary kindness of
the man--and compared it with the "muddy vesture," mental and physical, of Meynell's accuser.

Nevertheless, as he held himself in with difficulty he began to perceive more plainly than
he had yet done some of the intricacies of the situation.

"I have nothing to do," he said, in a tone that he endeavoured to make reasonably calm, "nor
has anybody, with generalization of that kind, in a case like this. The point is--could Meynell,
being what he is, what we all know him to be, have not only betrayed a young girl, but have
then failed to do her the elementary justice of marrying her? And the reply is that the thing
is incredible!"

"You forget that Meynell was extremely poor, and had his brothers to educate--"

Flaxman shrugged his shoulders in laughing contempt.

"Meynell desert the mother of his child--because of poverty--because of his brothers' education!--Meynell!
You have known him some years--I only for a few months. But go into the cottages here--talk
to the people--ask them, not what he believes, but what he is--what he has been to them. Get
one of them, if you can, to credit this absurdity!"

"The Rector's intimate friendship with Miss Puttenham has long been an astonishment--sometimes
a scandal--to the village!" exclaimed Barron, doggedly.

Flaxman stared at him in a blank amazement, then flushed. He took a turn up and down the room,
after which he returned to the fireside, composed. What was the use of arguing with such a
disputant? He felt as though the mere conversation were an insult to Meynell, in which he was
forced to participate.

He took a seat deliberately, and put on his magisterial manner, which, however, was much more
delicately and unassumingly authoritative than that of other men.

"I think we had better clear up our ideas. You bring me a story--a painful story--concerning
a lady with whom we are both acquainted, which may or may not be true. Whether it is true or
not is no concern of ours. Neither you nor I have anything to do with it, and legal penalties
would certainly follow the diffusion of it. You invite me to connect with it the name of a
man for whom I have the deepest respect and admiration; who bears an absolutely stainless record;
and you threaten to make use of the charge in connection with the heresy trials now coming
on. Now let me give you my advice--for what it may be worth. I should say--as you have asked
my opinion--have nothing whatever to do with the matter! If anybody else brings you anonymous
letters, tell them something of the law of libel--and something too of the guilt of slander!
After all, with a little good will, these are matters that are as easily quelled as raised.
A charge so preposterous has only to be firmly met to die away. It is your influence, and not
mine, which is important in this matter. You are a permanent resident, and I a mere bird of
passage. And"--Flaxman's countenance kindled--"let me just remind you of this: if you want
to strengthen Meynell's cause--if you want to win him thousands of new adherents--you have
only to launch against him a calumny which is sure to break down--and will inevitably recoil
upon you!"

The two men had risen. Barron's face, handsome in feature, save for some thickened lines and
the florid tint of the cheeks, had somehow emptied itself of expression while Flaxman was speaking.

"Your advice is no doubt excellent," he said quietly, as he buttoned his coat, "but it is hardly
practical. If there is one anonymous letter, there are probably others. If there are letters--there
is sure to be talk--and talk cannot be stopped. And in time everything gets into the newspapers."

Flaxman hesitated a moment. Something warned him not to push matters to extremities--to make
no breach with Barron--to keep him in play.

"I admit, of course, if this goes beyond a certain point it may be necessary to go to Meynell--it
may be necessary for Meynell to go to his Bishop. But at present, if you desire to suppress
the thing, you have only to keep your own counsel--and wait. Dawes is a good fellow, and will,
I am sure, say nothing. I could, if need be, speak to him myself. I was able to get his boy
into a job not long ago."

Barron straightened his shoulders slowly.

"Should I be doing right--should I be doing my duty--in assisting to suppress it--always supposing
that it could be suppressed--my convictions being what they are?"

Then--suddenly--it was borne in on Flaxman that in the whole interview there had been no genuine
desire whatever on Barron's part for advice and consultation. He had come determined on a certain
course, and the object of the visit had been, in truth, merely to convey to one of Meynell's
supporters a hint of the coming attack, and some intimation of its strength. The visit had
been in fact a threat--a move in Barron's game.

"That, of course, is a question which I cannot presume to decide," said Flaxman, with cold
politeness. His manner changed instantly. Peremptorily dismissing the subject, he became, on
the spot, the mere suave and courteous host of an interesting house; he pointed out the pictures
and the view, and led the way to the hall.

As he took leave, Barron stiffly intimated that he should not himself be able to attend Mrs.
Flaxman's party that evening; but his daughter and sons hoped to have the pleasure of obeying
her invitation.

"Delighted to see them," said Flaxman, standing in the doorway, with his hands in his pockets.
"Do you know Edward Norham?"

"I have never met him."

"A splendid fellow--likely I think to be the head of the Ministry before the year's out. My
wife was determined to bring him and Meynell together. He seems to have the traditional interest
in theology without which no English premier is complete."

Pursued by this parting shot, Barron retired, and Flaxman went back thoughtfully to his wife's
sitting-room. Should he tell her? Certainly. Her ready wits and quick brain were indispensable
in the battle that might be coming. Now that he was relieved from Barron's bodily presence,
he was by no means inclined to pooh-pooh the communication which had been made to him.

As he approached his wife's door he heard voices. Catharine! He remembered that she was to
lunch and spend the day with Rose. Now what to do! Devoted as he was to his sister-in-law,
he was scarcely inclined to trust her with the incident of the morning.

But as soon as he opened the door, Rose ran upon him, drew him in and closed it. Catharine
was sitting on the sofa--with a pale, kindled look--a letter in her hand.

"Catharine has had an abominable letter, Hugh!--the most scandalous thing!"

Flaxman took it from Catharine's hand, looked it through, and turned it over. The same script,
a little differently disguised, and practically the same letter, as that which had been shown
him in the library! But it began with a reference to the part which Mrs. Elsmere and her daughter
had played in the terrible accident of the preceding week, which showed that the rogue responsible
for it was at least a rogue possessed of some local and personal information.

Flaxman laid it down, and looked at his sister-in-law.

"Well?"

Catharine met his eyes with the clear intensity of her own.

"Isn't it hard to understand how anybody can do such a thing as that?" she said, with her patient
sigh--the sigh of an angel grieving over the perversity of men.

Flaxman dropped on the sofa beside her.

"You feel with me, that it is a mere clumsy attempt to injure Meynell, in the interests of
the campaign against him?" he asked her, eagerly.

"I don't know about that," said Catharine slowly--a shining sadness in her look. "But I do
know that it could only injure those who are trying to fight his errors--if it could be supposed
that they had stooped to such weapons!"

"You dear woman!" cried Flaxman, impulsively, and he raised her hand to his lips. Catharine
and Rose looked their astonishment. Whereupon he gave them the history of the hour he had just
passed through.

CHAPTER XII

But although what one may call the natural freemasonry of the children of light had come in
to protect Catharine from any touch of that greedy credulity which had fastened on Barron;
though she and Rose and Hugh Flaxman were at one in their contemptuous repudiation of Barron's
reading of the story, the story itself, so far as it concerned Alice Puttenham and Hester,
found in all their minds but little resistance.

"It may--it may be true," said Catharine gently. "If so--what she has gone through! Poor, poor
thing!"

And as she spoke--her thin fingers clasped on her black dress, the nun-like veil falling about
her shoulders, her aspect had the frank simplicity of those who for their Lord's sake have
faced the ugly things of life.

"What a shame--what an outrage--that any of us here should know a word about it!" cried Rose,
her small foot beating on the floor, the hot colour in her cheek. "How shall we ever be able
to face her to-night?"

Flaxman started.

"Miss Puttenham is coming to-night?"

"Certainly. She comes with Mary--who was to pick her up--after dinner."

Flaxman patrolled the room a little, in meditation. Finally he stopped before his wife.

"You must realize, darling, that we may be all walking on the edge of a volcano to-night."

"If only Henry Barron were!--and I might be behind to give the last little chiquenade!" cried Rose.

Flaxman devoutly echoed the wish.

"But the point is--are there any more of these letters out? If so, we may hear of others to-night.
Then--what to do? Do I make straight for Meynell?"

They pondered it.

"Impossible to leave Meynell in ignorance," said Flaxman--"if the thing spreads Meynell of
course would be perfectly justified--in his ward's interests--in denying the whole matter absolutely,
true or no. But can he?--with Barron in reserve--using the Sabin woman's tale for his own purposes?"

Catharine's face, a little sternly set, showed the obscure conflict behind.

"He cannot say what is false," she said stiffly. "But he can refuse to answer."

Flaxman looked at her with an expression as confident as her own.

"To protect a woman, my dear Catharine--a man may say anything in the world--almost."

Catharine made no reply, but her quiet face showed she did not agree with him.

"That child Hester!" Rose emerged suddenly from a mental voyage of recollection and conjecture.
"Now one understands why Lady Fox-Wilton--stupid woman!--has never seemed to care a rap for
her. It must indeed be annoying to have to mother a child so much handsomer than your own."

"I think I am very sorry for Sir Ralph Fox-Wilton," said Catharine, after a moment.

Rose assented.

"Yes!--just an ordinary dull, pig-headed country gentleman confronted with a situation that
only occurs in plays to which you don't demean yourself by going!--and obliged to tell and
act a string of lies, when lies happen to be just one of the vices you're not inclined to!
And then afterward you find yourself let in for living years and years with a bad conscience--hating
the cuckoo-child, too, more and more as it grows up. Yes!--I am quite sorry for Sir Ralph!"

"By the way!"--Flaxman looked up--"Do you know I am sure that I saw Miss Fox-Wilton--with Philip
Meryon--in Hewlett's spinney this morning. I came back from Markborough by a path I had never
discovered before--and there, sure enough, they were. They heard me on the path, I think, and
vanished most effectively. The wood is very thick. But I am sure it was they--though they were
some distance from me."

Rose exclaimed.

"Naughty, naughty child: She has been absolutely forbidden to see him, the whole Fox-Wilton
family have made themselves into gaolers and spies--and she just outwits them all! Poor Alice
Puttenham hovers about her--trying to distract and amuse her--and has no more influence than
a fly. And as for the Rector, it would be absurd, if it weren't enraging! Look at all there
is on his shoulders just now--the way people appeal to him from all over England to come and
speak--or consult--or organize--(I don't want to be controversial, Catharine, darling!--but
there it is). And he can't make up his mind to leave Upcote for twenty-four hours till this
girl is safely off the scene! He means to take her to Paris himself on Monday. I only hope
he has found a proper sort of Gorgon to leave her with!"

Flaxman could not but reflect that the whole relation of Meynell to his ward might well give
openings to such a scoundrel like the writer of the anonymous letters, who was certainly acquainted
with local affairs. But he did not express this feeling aloud. Meanwhile Catharine, who showed
an interest in Hester which surprised both him and Rose, began to question him on the subject
of Philip Meryon. Meryon's mother, it seemed, had been an intimate friend of one of Flaxman's
sisters, Lady Helen Varley, and Flaxman was well acquainted with the young man's most unsatisfactory
record. He drew a picture of the gradual degeneracy of the handsome lad who had been the hope
and delight of his warm-hearted, excitable mother; of her deepening disappointment and premature
death.

"Helen kept up with him for a time, for his mother's sake, but unluckily he has put himself
beyond the pale now, one way and another. It is too disastrous about this pretty child! What
on earth does she see in him?"

"Simply a means of escaping from her home," said Rose--"the situation working out! But who
knows whether he hasn't got a wife already? Nobody should trust this young man farther than
they can see him."

"It musn't--it can't be allowed!" said Catharine, with energy. And, as she spoke, she seemed
to feel again the soft bloom of Hester's young cheek against her own, just as when she had
drawn the girl to her, in that instinctive caress. The deep maternity in Catharine had never
yet found scope enough in the love of one child.

Then, with a still keener sense of the various difficulties rising along Meynell's path, Flaxman
and Rose returned to the anxious discussion of Barron's move and how to meet it. Catharine
listened, saying little; and it was presently settled that Flaxman should himself call on Dawes,
the colliery manager, that afternoon, and should write strongly to Barron, putting on paper
the overwhelming arguments, both practical and ethical, in favour of silence--always supposing
there were no further developments.

"Tell me"--said Rose presently, when Flaxman had left the sisters alone--"Mary of course knows
nothing of that letter?"

Catharine flushed.

"How could she?" She looked almost haughtily at her sister.

Rose murmured an excuse. "Would it be possible to keep all knowledge from Mary that there was
a scandal--of some sort--in circulation, if the thing developed?"

Catharine, holding her head high, thought it would not only be possible, but imperative.

Rose glanced at her uncertainly. Catharine was the only person of whom she had ever been afraid.
But at last she took the plunge.

"Catharine!--don't be angry with me--but I think Mary is interested in Richard Meynell."

"Why should I be angry?" said Catharine. She had coloured a little, but she was perfectly composed.
With her gray hair, and her plain widow's dress, she threw her sister's charming mondanity
into bright relief. But beauty--loftily understood--lay with Catharine.

"It is ill luck--his opinions!" cried Rose, laying her hand upon her sister's.

"Opinions are not 'luck,'" said Catharine, with a rather cold smile.

"You mean we are responsible for them? Perhaps we are, if we are responsible for anything--which
I sometimes doubt. But you like him--personally?" The tone was almost pleading.

"I think he is a good man."

"And if--if--they do fall in love--what are we all to do?"

Rose looked half whimsically--half entreatingly at her sister.

"Wait till the case arises," said Catharine, rather sharply. "And please don't interfere. You
are too fond of match-making, Rose!"

"I am--I just ache to be at it, all the time. But I wouldn't do anything that would be a grief
to you."

Catharine was silent a moment. Then she said in a tone that went to the listener's heart:

"Whatever happened--will be God's will."

She sat motionless, her eyes drooped, her features a little drawn and pale; her thoughts--Rose
knew it--in the past.

       *       *       *       *       *

Flaxman came back from his interview with Dawes, reporting that nothing could have been in
better taste or feeling than Dawes's view of the matter. As far as the Rector was concerned--and
he had told Mr. Barron so--the story was ridiculous, the mere blunder of a crazy woman; and,
for the rest, what had they to do in Upcote with ferreting into other people's private affairs?
He had locked up the letter in case it might some time be necessary to hand it to the police,
and didn't intend himself to say a word to anybody. If the thing went any further, why of course
the Rector must be informed. Otherwise silence was best. He had given a piece of his mind to
Mr. Barron and "didn't want to be mixed up in any such business." "As far as I'm concerned,
Mr. Flaxman, I'm fighting for the Church and her Creeds--I'm not out for backbiting!"

"Nice man!"--said Rose, with enthusiasm--"Why didn't I ask him to-night!"

"But"--resumed Flaxman--"he warned me that if any letter of the kind got into the hands of
a certain Miss Nairn in the village there might be trouble."

"Miss Nairn?--Miss Nairn?" The sisters looked at each other. "Oh, I know--the lady in black
we saw in church the day the revolution began--a strange little shrivelled spinster-thing who
lives in that house by the post-office. She quarrelled mortally with the Rector last year,
because she ill-treated a little servant girl of hers, and the Rector remonstrated."

"Well, she's one of the 'aggrieved.'"

"They seem to be an odd crew! There's the old sea-captain that lives in that queer house with
the single yew tree and the boarded-up window on the edge of the Heath. He's one of them. He
used to come to church about once a quarter and wrote the Rector interminable letters on the
meaning of Ezekiel. Then there's the publican--East--who nearly lost his license last year--he
always put it down to the Rector and vowed he'd be even with him. I must say, the church in
Upcote seems rather put to it for defenders!"

"In Upcote," corrected Flaxman. "That's because of Meynell's personal hold. Plenty of 'em--quite
immaculate--elsewhere. However, Dawes is a perfectly decent, honest man, and grieved to the
heart by the Rector's performances."

Catharine had waited silently to hear this remark, and then went away to write a letter.

"Poor darling! Will she go and call on Dawes--for sympathy?" said Flaxman, mischievously to
his wife as the door closed.

"Sympathy?" Rose's face grew soft. "It's much as it was with Robert. It ought to be so simple--and
it is so mixed! Nature of course ought to have endowed all unbelievers with the proper horns
and tail. And there they go--stealing your heart away!--and your daughter's."

The Flaxmans and Catharine--who spent the day with her sister, before the evening party--were
more and more conscious of oppression as the hours went on; as though some moral thunder hung
in the air.

Flaxman asked himself again and again--"Ought I to go to Meynell at once?" and could not satisfy
himself with any answer; while he, his wife, and his sister-in-law, being persons of delicacy,
were all ashamed of finding themselves the possessors, against their will, of facts--supposing
they were facts--to which they had no right. Meynell's ignorance--Alice Puttenham's ignorance--of
their knowledge, tormented their consciences. And it added to their discomfort that they shared
their knowledge with such a person as Henry Barron. However, there was no help for it.

A mild autumn day drew to its close, with a lingering gold in the west and a rising moon. The
charming old house, with its faded furniture, and its out-at-elbows charm, was lit up softly,
with lamps that made a dim but friendly shining in its wide spaces. It had never belonged to
rich people, but always to people of taste. It boasted no Gainsboroughs or Romneys; but there
were lesser men of the date, possessed of pretty talents of their own, painters and pastellists,
who had tried their hands on the family, of whom they had probably been the personal friends.
The originals of the portraits on the walls were known neither to history nor scandal; but
their good, modest faces, their brave red or blue coats, their white gowns, and drooping feathers
looked winningly out from the soft shadows of the rooms. At Maudeley, Rose wore her simplest
dresses, and was astonished at the lightness of the household expenses. The house indeed had
never known display, or any other luxury than space; and to live in it was to accept its tradition.

The week-enders arrived at tea-time; Mr. Norham with a secretary and a valet, much preoccupied,
and chewing the fag-end of certain Cabinet deliberations in the morning; Flaxman's charming
sister, Lady Helen Varley, and her husband; his elder brother, Lord Wanless, unmarried, an
expert on armour, slightly eccentric, but still, in the eyes of all intriguing mothers, and
to his own annoyance, more than desirable as a husband owing to the Wanless collieries and
a few other trifles of the same kind; the Bishop of Markborough; Canon France and his sister;
a young poet whose very delicate muse had lodged itself oddly in the frame of an athlete; a
high official in the Local Government Board, Mr. Spearman, whom Rose regarded with distrust
as likely to lead Hugh into too much talk about workhouses; Lady Helen's two girls just out,
as dainty and well-dressed, as gayly and innocently sure of themselves and their place in life
as the "classes" at their best know how to produce; and two or three youths, bound for Oxford
by the end of the week, samples, these last, of a somewhat new type in that old University--combining
the dash, family, and insolence of the old "tuft" or Bullingdon man, with an amazing aptitude
for the classics, rare indeed among the "tufts" of old. Two out of the three had captured almost
every distinction that Oxford offers; and all three had been either gated for lengthy periods
or "sent down," or otherwise trounced by an angry college, puzzled by the queer connection
between Irelands and Hertfords on the one hand and tipsy frolics on the other.

Meynell appeared for dinner--somewhat late. It was only with great difficulty that the Flaxmans
had prevailed on him to come, for the purpose of meeting Mr. Norham. But the party within the
church which, foreseeing a Modernist defeat in the church courts, was appealing to Parliament
to take action, was strengthening every week; Meynell's Saturday articles in the Modernist,
the paper founded by the Reformers' League, were already providing these parliamentarians with
a policy and inspiration; and if the Movement were to go on swelling during the winter, the
government might have to take very serious cognizance of it during the spring. Mr. Norham therefore
had expressed a wish for some conversation with the Modernist leader, who happened to be Rector
of Upcote; and Meynell, who had by now cut himself adrift from all social engagements, had
with difficulty saved an evening.

As far as Norham was concerned Meynell would have greatly preferred to take the Home Secretary
for a Sunday walk on the Chase; but he had begun to love the Flaxmans, and could not make up
his mind to say No to them. Moreover, was it not more than probable that he would meet at Maudeley
"one simple girl," of whom he did not dare in these strenuous days to let himself think too much?

       *       *       *       *       *

So that Rose, as she surveyed her dinner table, could feel that she was maintaining the wide
social traditions of England, by the mingling of as many contraries as possible. But the oil
and vinegar were after all cunningly mixed, and the dinner went well. The Bishop was separated
from Meynell by the length of the table, and Norham was carefully protected from Mr. Spearman,
in his eyes a prince of bores, who was always bothering the Home Office.

The Bishop, who was seated beside Rose at one end of the table, noticed the black patch on
Meynell's temple, and inquired its origin. Rose gave him a graphic account both of the accident
and the riot. The Bishop raised his eyebrows.

"How does he contrive to live the two lives?" he said in a tone slightly acid. "If he continues
to lead this Movement, he will have to give up fighting mobs and running up and down mines."

"What is going to happen to the Movement?" Rose asked him, with her most sympathetic smile.
Socially and in her own house she was divinely all things to all men. But the Bishop was rather
suspicious of her.

"What can happen to it but defeat? The only other alternative is the break-up of the Church.
And for that, thank God, they are not strong enough."

"And no compromise is possible?"

"None. In three months Meynell and all his friends will have ceased to belong to the English
Church. It is very lamentable. I am particularly sorry for Meynell himself--who is one of the
best of men."

Rose felt her colour rising. She longed to ask--"But supposing England has something to say?--suppose
she chooses to transform her National Church? Hasn't she the right and the power?"

But her instincts as hostess stifled her pugnacity. And the little Bishop looked so worn and
fragile that she had no heart for anything but cossetting him. At the same time she noticed--as
she had done before on other occasions--the curious absence of any ferocity, any smell of brimstone,
in the air! How different from Robert's day! Then the presumption underlying all controversy
was of an offended authority ranged against an apologetic rebellion. A tone of moral condemnation
on the one side, a touch of casuistry on the other, confused the issues. And now--behind and
around the combatants--the clash of equal hosts!--over ground strewn with dead assumptions.
The conflict might be no less strenuous; nay! from a series of isolated struggles it had developed
into a world-wide battle; but the bitterness between man and man was less.

Yes!--for the nobler spirits--the leaders and generals of each army. But what of the rank and
file? And at the thought of Barron she laughed at herself for supposing that religious rancour
and religious slander had died out of the world!

"Can we have some talk somewhere?" said Norham languidly, in Meynell's ear, as the gentlemen
left the dining-room.

"I think Mrs. Flaxman will have arranged something," said Meynell, with a smile--detecting
the weariness of the political Atlas.

And indeed Rose had all her dispositions made. They found her in the drawing-room, amid a bevy
of bright gowns and comely faces, illumined by the cheerful light of a big wood fire--a circle
of shimmering stuffs and gems, the blaze sparkling on the pointed slippers, the white necks
and glossy hair of the girls, and on the diamonds of their mothers.

But Rose, the centre of the circle, sprang up at once, at sight of her two gros bonnets.

"The green drawing-room!" she murmured in Meynell's ear, and tripped on before them, while
the incoming crowd of gentlemen, mingling with the ladies, served to mask the movement.

Not, however, before the Bishop had perceived the withdrawal of the politician and the heretic.
He saw that Canon France, who followed him, had also an eye to the retreating figures.

"I trust we too shall have our audience." said the Bishop, ironically.

Canon France shrugged his shoulders, smiling.

Then his small shrewd eyes scanned the Bishop intently. Nothing in that delicate face beyond
the sentiments proper to the situation?--the public situation? As to the personal emotion involved,
that, the Canon knew, was for the time almost exhausted. The Bishop had suffered much during
the preceding months--in his affections, his fatherly feeling toward his clergy, in his sense
of the affront offered to Christ's seamless vesture of the Church. But now, France thought,
pain had been largely deadened by the mere dramatic interest of the prospect ahead, by the
anodyne of an immense correspondence, and of a vast increase in the business of the day, caused
by the various actions pending.

Nothing else--new and disturbing--in the Bishop's mind? He moved on, chatting and jesting with
the young girls who gathered round him. He was evidently a favourite with them, and with all
nice women. Finally he sank into an armchair beside Lady Helen Varley, exchanging Mrs. Flaxman's
cossetting for hers. His small figure was almost lost in the armchair. The firelight danced
on his slender stockinged legs, on his episcopal shoe buckles, on the cross which adorned his
episcopal breast, and then on the gleaming snow of his hair, above his blue eyes with their
slight unearthliness, so large and flower-like in his small white face. He seemed very much
at ease--throwing off all burdens.

No!--the Slander which had begun to fly through the diocese, like an arrow by night, had not
yet touched the Bishop.

Nor Meynell himself?

Yet France was certain that Barron had not been idle, that he had not let it drop. "I advised
him to let it drop"--he said uneasily to himself--"that was all I could do."

Then he looked round him, at the faces of the women present. He scarcely knew any of them.
Was she among them--the lady of Barron's tale? He thought of the story as he might have thought
of the plot of a novel. When medieval charters were not to be had, it made an interesting subject
of speculation. And Barron could not have confided it to any one in the diocese, so discreet--so
absolutely discreet--as he.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I gather this Movement of yours is rapidly becoming formidable?" said Norham to his companion.

He spoke with the affectation of interest that all politicians in office must learn. But there
was no heart in it, and Meynell wondered why the great man had desired to speak with him at all.

He replied that the growth of the Movement was certainly a startling fact.

"It is now clear that we must ultimately go to Parliament. The immediate result in the Church
courts is of course not in doubt. But our hope lies in such demonstrations in the country as
may induce Parliament"--he paused, laying a quiet emphasis on each word--"to reconsider--and
resettle--the conditions of membership and office in the English Church."

"Good heavens!" cried Norham, throwing up his hand--"What a prospect! If that business once
gets into the House of Commons, it'll have everything else out."

"Yes. It's big enough to ask for time--and take it."

Norham suppressed a slight yawn as he turned in his chair.

"The House of Commons, alas!--never shows to advantage in an ecclesiastical debate. You'd think
it was in the condition of Sydney Smith with a cold--not sure whether there were nine Articles
and Thirty-Nine Muses--or the other way on!"

Meynell looked at the Secretary of State in silence--his eyes twinkling. He had heard from
various friends of this touch of insolence in Norham. He awaited its disappearance.

Edward Norham was a man still young; under forty indeed, though marked prematurely by hard
work and hard fighting. His black hair had receded on the temples, and was obviously thinning
on the crown of the head; he wore spectacles, and his shoulders had taken the stoop of office
work. But the eyes behind the spectacles lost nothing that they desired to see; and the general
impression was one of bull-dog strength, which could be impertinent and aggressive, and could
also masque itself in a good humour and charm by no means insincere. In his political career,
he was on the eve of great things; and he would owe them mainly to a power of work, supreme
even in these hard-driven days. This power of work enabled him to glean in many fields, and
keep his eye on many chances that his colleagues perforce neglected. The Modernist Movement
was one of these chances. For years he had foreseen great changes ahead in the relations of
Church and State, and this group of men seemed to be forcing the pace.

Suddenly, as his eyes perused the strong humanity of the face beside him, Norham changed his
manner. He sat up and put down the paper-knife he had been teasing. As he did so there was
a little crash at his elbow and something rolled on the floor.

"What's that?"

"No harm done," said Meynell, stooping--"one of our host's Greek coins. What a beauty!" He
picked up the little case and the coin which had rolled out of it--a gold coin of Velia, with
a head of Athene--one of the great prizes of the collector.

Norham took it with eagerness. He was a Cambridge man, and a fine scholar, and such things
delighted him.

"I didn't know Flaxman cared for these things."

"He inherited them," said Meynell, pointing to the open cabinet on the table. "But he loves
them too. Mrs. Flaxman always has them put out on great occasions. It seems to me they ought
to have a watcher! They are quite priceless, I believe. Such things are soon lost."

"Oh!--they are safe enough here," said Norham, returning the coin to its place, with another
loving look at it. Then, with an effort, he pulled himself together,  and with great rapidity
began to question his companion as to the details and progress of the Movement. All the facts
up to date, the number of Reformers enrolled since the foundation of the League, the League's
finances, the astonishing growth of its petition to Parliament, the progress of the Movement
in the Universities, among the ardent and intellectual youth of the day, its spread from week
to week among the clergy: these things came out steadily and clearly in Meynell's replies.

"The League was started in July--it is now October. We have fifty thousand enrolled members,
all communicants in Modernist churches. Meetings and demonstrations are being arranged at this
moment all over England; and in January or February there will be a formal inauguration of
the new Liturgy in Dunchester Cathedral."

"Heavens!" said Norham, dropping all signs of languor. "Dunchester will venture it?"

Meynell made a sign of assent.

"It is of course possible that the episcopal proceedings against the Bishop, which, as you
see, have just begun, may have been brought to a close, and that the Cathedral may be no longer
at our disposal, but--"

"The Dean, surely, has power to close it!"

"The Dean has come over to us, and the majority of the Canons."

Norham threw back his head with a laugh of amazement.

"The first time in history that a Dean has been of the same opinion as his Bishop! Upon my
word, the government has been badly informed or I have not kept up. I had no idea--simply no
idea--that things had gone so far. Markborough of course gives us very different accounts--he
and the Bishops acting with him."

"A great deal is going on which our Bishop here is quite unaware of."

"You can substantiate what you have been saying?"

"I will send you papers to-morrow morning. But of course"--added Meynell, after a pause--"a
great many of us will be out of our berths, in a few months, temporarily at least. It will
rest with Parliament whether we remain so!"

"The Non-Jurors of the twentieth century!" murmured Norham, with a half-sceptical intonation.

"Ah, but this is the twentieth century!"--said Meynell smiling. "And in our belief the denouement
will be different."

"What will you do--you clergy--when you are deprived?"

"In the first place, it will take a long time to deprive us--and so long as there are any of
us left in our livings, each will come to the help of the other."

"But you yourself?"

"I have already made arrangements for a big barn in the village"--said Meynell, smiling--"a
great tithe-barn of the fifteenth century, a magnificent old place, with a forest of wooden
arches, and a vault like a church. The village will worship there for a while. We shall make
it beautiful!"

Norham was silent for a moment. He was stupefied by the energy, the passion of religious hope
in the face beside him. Then the critical temper in him conquered his emotion, and he said,
not without sarcasm:

"This is all very surprising--very interesting--but what are the ideas behind you? A thing
like this cannot live without ideas--and I confess I have always thought the ideas of Liberal
Christianity a rather beggarly set-out--excuse the phrase!"

"There is nothing to excuse!--the phrase fits. 'A reduced Christianity'--as opposed to a 'full
Christianity'--that is the description lately given, I think, by a divinity professor. I don't
quarrel with it at all. Who can care for a 'reduced' anything! But a transformed Christianity--that
is another matter."

"Why 'Christianity' at all?"

Meynell looked at him in a smiling silence. He--the man of religion--was unwilling in these
surroundings to play the prophet, to plunge into the central stream of argument. But Norham,
the outsider and dilettante, was conscious of a kindled mind.

"That is the question to which it always seems to me there is no answer," he said easily, leaning
back in his chair. "You think you can take what you like of a great historical religion and
leave the rest--that you can fall back on its pre-suppositions and build it anew. But the pre-suppositions
themselves are all crumbling. 'God,'--'soul,' 'free-will,' 'immortality'--even human identity--is
there one of the old fundamental notions that still stands, unchallenged? What are we in the
eyes of modern psychology--but a world of automata--dancing to stimuli from outside? What has
become of conscience--of the moral law--of Kant's imperative--in the minds of writers like these?"

He pointed to two recent novels lying on the table, both of them brilliant glorifications of
sordid forms of adultery.

Meynell's look fired.

"Ah!--but let us distinguish. We are not anarchists--as those men are. Our claim is precisely
that we are, and desire to remain, a part of a Society--a definite community with definite
laws--of a National Church--of the nation, that is, in its spiritual aspect. The question for
which we are campaigning is as to the terms of membership in that society. But terms and conditions
there must always be. The 'wild living intellect of man' must accept conditions in the Church,
as we conceive it, no less than in the Church as Newman conceived it."

Norham shrugged his shoulders.

"Then why all this bother?"

"Because the conditions must be adjusted from time to time! Otherwise the church suffers and
souls are lost--wantonly, without reason. But there is no church--no religion--without some
venture, some leap of faith! If you can't make any leap at all--any venture--then you remain
outside--and you think yourself, perhaps, entitled to run amuck--as these men do!" He pointed
to the books. "But we make the venture!--we accept the great hypothesis--of faith."

The sound of voices came dimly to them from the farther rooms. Norham pointed toward them.

"What difference then between you--and your Bishop?"

"Simply that in his case--as we say--the hypothesis of faith is weighted with a vast mass of
stubborn matter that it was never meant to carry--bad history, bad criticism, an out-grown
philosophy. To make it carry it--in our belief--you have to fly in the face of that gradual
education of the world--education of the mind, education of the conscience--which is the chief
mark of God in the world. But the hypothesis of Faith, itself, remains--take it at its lowest--as
rational, as defensible, as legitimate as any other!"

"What do you mean by it? God--conscience--responsibility?"

"Those are the big words!" said Meynell, smiling--"and of course the true ones. But what the
saint means by it, I suppose, in the first instance, is that there is in man something mysterious,
superhuman--a Life in life--which can be indefinitely strengthened, enlightened, purified,
till it reveal to him the secret of the world, till it 'toss him' to the 'breast' of God!--or
again, can be weakened, lost, destroyed, till he relapses into the animal. Believe it, we say!
Live by it!--make the venture. Verificatur vivendo!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Again the conversation paused. From the distance once more came the merry clamour of the farther
drawing-room. A din of young folk, chaffing and teasing each other--a girl's defiant voice
above it--outbursts of laughter. Norham, who had in him a touch of dramatic imagination, enjoyed
the contrast between the gay crowd in the distance and this quiet room where he sat face to
face with a visionary--surely altogether remote from the marrying, money-making, sensuous world.
Yet after all the League was a big, practical, organized fact.

"What you have expressed--very finely, if I may say so--is of course the mystical creed," he
replied at last, with suave politeness. "But why call it Christianity?"

As he spoke, he was conscious of a certain pride in himself. He felt complacently that he understood
Meynell and appreciated him; and that hardly any of his colleagues would, or could have done so.

"Why call it Christianity?" he repeated.

"Because Christianity is this creed!--'embodied in a tale.' And mankind must have tales and
symbols."

"And the life of Christ is your symbol?"

"More!--it is our Sacrament--the supreme Sacrament--to which all other symbols of the same
kind lead--in which they are summed up."

"And that is why you make so much of the Eucharist?"

"It is--to us--just as full of mystical meaning, just as much the meeting-place of God and
man, as to the Catholic--Roman or Anglican."

"Strange that there should be so many of you!" said Norham, after a moment, with an incredulous
smile.

"Yes--that has been the discovery of the last six months. But we might all have guessed it.
The fuel has been long laid--now comes the kindling, and the blaze!"

There was a pause. Then Norham said abruptly--

"Now what is it you want of Parliament?"

The two men plunged into a discussion, in which the politician became presently aware that
the parish priest, the visionary, possessed a surprising amount of practical and statesman-like
ability.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile--a room or two away--in the great bare drawing-room, with its faded tapestries, and
its warm mixture of lamplight and firelight, the evening guests had been arriving. Rose stood
at the door of the drawing-room, receiving, her husband beside her, Catharine a little way behind.

"Oh!" cried Rose suddenly, under her breath, only heard by Hugh--a little sound of perturbation.

Outside, in the hall, hardly lit at intervals by oil-lamps, a group could be seen advancing;
in front Alice Puttenham and Mary, and behind, the Fox-Wilton party, Hester's golden head and
challenging gait drawing all eyes as she passed along.

But it was on Alice Puttenham that Rose's gaze was fixed. She came dreamily forward; and Rose
saw her marked out, by the lovely oval of the face, its whiteness, its melancholy, from all
the moving shapes around her. She wore a dress of black gauze over white; a little scarf of
old lace lay on her shoulders; her still abundant hair was rolled back from her high brow and
sad eyes. She looked very small and childish--as frail as thistledown.

And behind her, Hester's stormy beauty! Rose gave a little gulp. Then she found herself pressing
a cold hand, and was conscious of sudden relief. Miss Puttenham's shy composure was unchanged.
She could not have looked so--she could not surely have confronted such a gathering of neighbours
and strangers, if--

No, no! The Slander--Rose, in her turn, saw it under an image, as though a dark night-bird
hovered over Upcote--had not yet descended on this gentle head. With eager kindness, Hugh came
forward--and Catharine. They found her a place by the fire, where presently the glow seemed
to make its way to her pale cheeks, and she sat silent and amused, watching the triumph of Hester.

For Hester was no sooner in the room than, resenting perhaps the decidedly cool reception that
Mrs. Flaxman had given her, she at once set to work to extinguish all the other young women
there. And she had very soon succeeded. The Oxford youths, Lord Wanless, the sons of two or
three neighbouring squires, they were all presently gathered about her, as thick as bees on
honeycomb, recognizing in her instantly one of those beings endowed from their cradle with
a double portion of sex-magic, who leave such a wild track behind them in the world.

By her chair stood poor Stephen Barron, absorbed in her every look and tone. Occasionally she
threw him a word--Rose thought for pure mischief; and his whole face would light up.

In the centre of the circle round Hester stood one of the Oxford lads, a magnificent fellow,
radiating health and gayety, who was trying to wear her down in one of the word-games of the
day. They fought hard and breathlessly, everybody listening partly for the amusement of the
game, partly for the pleasure of watching the good looks of the young creatures playing it.
At last the man turned on his heel with a cry of victory.

"Beaten!--beaten!--by a hair. But you're wonderful, Miss Fox-Wilton. I never found anybody
near so good as you at it before, except a man I met once at Newmarket--Philip Meryon--do you
know him? Never saw a fellow so good at games. But an awfully queer fish!"

It seemed to the morbid sensitiveness of Rose that there was an instantaneous and a thrilling
silence. Hester tossed her head; her colour, after the first start, ebbed away; she grew pale.

"Yes, I do know him. Why is he a queer fish? You only say that because he beat you!"

The young man gave a half-laugh, and looked at his friends. Then he changed the subject. But
Hester got up impatiently from her seat, and would not play any more. Rose caught the sudden
intentness with which Alice Puttenham's eyes pursued her.

Stephen Barron came to the help of his hostess, and started more games. Rose was grateful to
him--and quite intolerably sorry for him.

"But why was I obliged to shake hands with the other brother?" she thought rebelliously, as
she watched the disagreeable face of Maurice Barron, who had been standing in the circle not
far from Hester. He had a look of bad company which displeased her; and she resented what seemed
to her an inclination to stare at the pretty women--especially at Hester, and Miss Puttenham.
Heavens!--if that odious father had betrayed anything to such a son! Surely, surely it was
inconceivable!

The party was beginning to thin when Meynell, impatient to be quit of his Cabinet Minister
that he might find Mary Elsmere before it was too late, hurried from the green drawing-room,
in the wake of Mr. Norham, and stumbled against a young man, who in the very imperfect illumination
had not perceived the second figure behind the Home Secretary.

"Hullo!" said Meynell brusquely, stepping back. "How do you do? Is Stephen here?"

Maurice Barron answered in the affirmative--and added, as though from the need to say something,
no matter what:

"I hear there are some coins to be seen in there?"

"There are."

Meynell passed on, his countenance showing a sternness, a contempt even, that was rare with
him. He and Norham passed through the next drawing-room, and met various acquaintances at the
farther door. Maurice Barron stood watching them. The persons invading the room had come intending
to see the coins. But meeting the Home Secretary they turned back with him, and Meynell followed
them, eager to disengage himself from them. At the door some impulse made him turn and look
back. He saw Maurice Barron disappearing into the green drawing-room.

       *       *       *       *       *

The night was soft and warm. Catharine and Mary had come prepared to walk home, Catharine eagerly
resuming, now that her health allowed it, the Spartan habits of their normal life. Flaxman
was drawn by the beauty of the moonlight and the park to offer to escort them to the lower
lodge. Hester declared that she too would walk, and carelessly accepted Stephen's escort. Meynell
stepped out from the house with them, and in the natural sequence of things he found himself
with Mary.

Flaxman and Catharine, who led the way, hardly spoke to each other. They walked, pensive and
depressed. Each knew what the other was thinking of, and each felt that nothing was to be gained
for the moment by any fresh talk about it. Just behind them they could hear Hester laughing
and sparring with Stephen; and when Catharine looked back she could see Meynell and Mary far
away, in the distance of the avenue they were following.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great lime-trees on either side threw long shadows on grass covered with the fresh fallen
leaf, which gleamed, a pale orange, through the dusk. The sky was dappled with white cloud,
and the lime-boughs overhead broke it into patterns of delight. The sharp scent of the fallen
leaves was in the air; and the night for all its mildness prophesied winter. Meynell seemed
to himself to be moving on enchanted ground, beneath enchanted trees. The tension of his long
talk with Norham, the cares of his leadership--the voices of a natural ambition, dropped away.
Mary in a blue cloak, a white scarf wound about her head, summed up for him the pure beauty
of nature and the night. For the first time he did not attempt to check the thrill in his veins;
he began to hope. It was impossible to ignore the change in Mrs. Elsmere's attitude toward
him. He had no idea what had caused it; but he felt it. And he realized also that through unseen
and inexplicable gradations Mary had come mysteriously near to him. He dared not have spoken
a word of love to her; but such feeling as theirs, however restrained, penetrates speech and
gesture, and irresistibly makes all things new.

They spoke of the most trivial matters, and hardly noticed what they said. He all the time
was thinking: "Beyond this tumult there will be rest some day--then I may speak. We could live
hardly and simply--neither of us wants luxury. But now it would be unjust--it would bring too
great a burden on her--and her poor mother. I must wait! But we shall see each other--we shall
understand each other!"

Meanwhile she, on her side, would perhaps have given the world to share the struggle from which
he debarred her.

Nevertheless, for both, it was an hour of happiness and hope.

CHAPTER XIII

"So I see your name this morning, Stephen, on their list."

Henry Barron held up a page of the Times and pointed to its first column.

"I sent it in some time ago."

"And pray what does your parish think of it?"

"They won't support me."

"Thank God!"

Barron rose majestically to his feet, and from the rug surveyed his thin, fair-haired son.
Stephen had just ridden over from his own tiny vicarage, twelve miles away, to settle some
business connected with a family legacy with his father. Since the outbreak of the Reform Movement
there had been frequent disputes between the father and son, if aggressive attack on the one
side and silent endurance on the other make a dispute. Barron scorned his eldest son, as a
faddist and a dreamer; while Stephen could never remember the time when his father had not
seemed to him the living embodiment of prejudice, obstinacy, and caprice. He had always reckoned
it indeed the crowning proof of Meynell's unworldly optimism that, at the moment of his father's
accession to the White House estate, there should have been a passing friendship between him
and the Rector. Yet whenever thoughts of this kind presented themselves explicitly to Stephen
he tried to suppress them. His life, often, was a constant struggle between a genuine and irrepressible
dislike of his father and a sore sense that no Christian priest could permit himself such a
feeling.

He made no reply to his father's interjection. But Barron knew very well that his son's self-control
was no indication of lack of will; quite the contrary; and the father was conscious of a growing
exasperation as he watched the patient compression of the young mouth. He wanted somehow to
convict and crush Stephen; and he believed that he held the means thereto in his hand. He had
not been sure before Stephen arrived whether he should reveal the situation or not. But the
temptation was too great. That the son's mind and soul should finally have escaped his father,
"like a bird out of the snare of the fowler," was the unforgivable offence. What a gentle,
malleable fellow he had seemed in his school and college days!--how amenable to the father's
spiritual tyranny! It was Barron's constant excuse to himself for his own rancorous feeling--that
Meynell had robbed him of his son.

"You probably think it strange"--he resumed harshly--"that I should rejoice in what of course
is your misfortune--that your people reject you; but there are higher interests than those
of personal affection concerned in this business. We who are defending her must think first
of the Church!"

"Naturally," said Stephen.

His father looked at him in silence for a moment, at the mild pliant figure, the downcast eyes.

"There is, however, one thing for which I have cause--we all have cause--to be grateful to
Meynell," he said, with emphasis.

Stephen looked up.

"I understand he refused to sanction your engagement to Hester Fox-Wilton."

The young man flushed.

"It would be better, I think, father, if we are to talk over these matters quietly--which I
understood is the reason you asked me to come here to-day--that you should avoid a tone toward
myself and my affairs which can only make frank conversation difficult or impossible between us."

"I have no desire to be offensive," said Barron, checking himself with difficulty, "and I have
only your good in view, though you may not believe it. My reason for approving Meynell in the
matter is that he was aware--and you were not aware"--he fell into the slow phrasing he always
affected on important occasions--"of facts bearing vitally on your proposal; and that in the
light of them he acted as any honest man was bound to act."

"What do you mean!" cried Stephen, springing to his feet.

"I mean"--the answer was increasingly deliberate--"that Hester Fox-Wilton--it is very painful
to have to go into these things, but it is necessary, I regret to say--is not a Fox-Wilton
at all--and has no right whatever to her name!"

Stephen walked up to the speaker.

"Take care, father! This is a question of a girl--an unprotected girl! What right have you
to say such an abominable thing!"

He stood panting and white, in front of his father.

"The right of truth!" said Barron. "It happens to be true."

"Your grounds?"

"The confession of the woman who nursed her mother--who was not Lady Fox-Wilton."

Barron had now assumed the habitual attitude--thumbs in his pockets, legs slightly apart--that
Stephen had associated from his childhood with the long bullying, secular and religious, that
Barron's family owed to Barron's temperament.

In the pause, Stephen's quick breathing could be heard.

"Who was she?"

The son's tone had caught the father's sharpness.

"Well, my dear Stephen, I am not sure that I shall tell you while you look at me in that fashion!
Believe me--it is not my fault, but my misfortune, that I happen to be acquainted with this
very disagreeable secret. And I have one thing to say--you must give me your promise that you
will regard any communication from me as entirely confidential, before I say another word."

Stephen walked away to the window and came back.

"Very well. I promise."

"Sit down. It is a long story."

The son obeyed mechanically, his frowning eyes fixed upon his father. Barron at once plunged
into an account of his interview with Judith Sabin, omitting only those portions of it which
connected the story with Meynell. It was evident, presently, that Stephen--to the dawning triumph
of his father--listened with an increasingly troubled mind. And indeed, at the first whisper
of the story, there had flashed through the young man's memory the vision of Meynell arguing
and expostulating on that July afternoon, when he, Stephen, had spoken so confidingly, so unsuspectingly
of his love for Hester. He recalled his own amazement, his sense of shock and strangeness.
What Meynell said on that occasion seemed to have so little relation to what Meynell habitually
was. Meynell, for whom love, in its spiritual aspect, was the salt and significance of life,
the foundation of all wisdom--Meynell on that occasion had seemed to make comparatively nothing
of love!--to deny its simplest rights--to put it despotically out of count. Stephen, as he
had long recognized, had been overborne and silenced by Meynell's personality rather than by
Meynell's arguments--by the disabling force mainly of his own devotion to the man who bade
him wait and renounce. But in his heart he had never quite forgiven, or understood; and for
all the subsequent trouble about Hester, all his own jealousy and pain, he had not been able
to prevent himself from blaming Meynell. And now--now!--if this story were true--he began to
understand. Poor child--poor mother! With the marriage of the child, must come--he felt the
logic of it--the confession of the mother. A woman like Alice Puttenham, a man like Meynell,
were not likely to give Hester to her lover without telling that lover what he had a right
to know. Small blame to them if they were not prepared to bring about that crisis prematurely,
while Hester was still so young! It must be faced--but not, not till it must!

Yes, he understood. A rush of warm and pitiful love filled his heart; while his intelligence
dismally accepted and endorsed the story his father was telling with that heavy tragic touch
which the son instinctively hated as insincere and theatrical.

"Now then, perhaps,"--Barron wound up--"you will realize why it is I feel Meynell has acted
considerately, and as any true friend of yours was bound to act. He knew--and you were ignorant.
Such a marriage could not have been for your happiness, and he rightly interposed."

"What difference does it make to Hester herself," cried Stephen hotly--"supposing the thing
is true? I admit--it may be true," and as he spoke a host of small confirmations came thronging
into his unwilling mind. "But in any case--"

He walked up to his father again.

"What have you done about it, father?" he said, sharply. "I suppose you went to Meynell at once."

Barron smiled, with a lift of the eyebrows. He knocked off the end of his cigarette, and paused.

"Of course you have seen Meynell?" Stephen repeated.

"No, I haven't."

"I should have thought that was your first duty."

"It was not easy to decide what my duty was," said Barron, with the same emphasis, "not at
all easy."

"What do you mean, father? There seems to be something more behind. If there is, considering
my feeling for Hester, it seems to me that having told me so much you are bound to tell me
all you know. Remember--this story concerns the girl I love!"

Passion and pain spoke in the young man's voice. His father looked at him with an involuntary
sympathy.

"I know. I am very sorry for you. But it concerns other people also."

"What is known of the father?" said Stephen abruptly.

"Ah, that is the point!" said Barron, making an abstracted face.

"It is a question to which I am surely entitled to have an answer!"

"I am not sure that I can give it you. I can tell you of course what the view of Judith Sabin
was--what the facts seem to point to. But--in any case, whether I believe Judith Sabin or no,
I should not have said a word to you on the subject but for the circumstance that--unfortunately--there
are other people in the case."

Whereupon--watching his son carefully--Barron repeated the story that he had already given
to Flaxman.

The effect upon Meynell's young disciple and worshipper may be imagined. He grew deadly pale,
and then red; choked with indignant scorn; and could scarcely bring himself to listen at all,
after he had once gathered the real gist of what his father was saying.

Yet, by this time, the story was much better worth listening to than it had been when Barron
had first presented it to Flaxman. By dint of much brooding, and under the influence of an
angry obstinacy which must have its prey, Barron had made it a good deal more plausible than
it had been to begin with, and would no doubt make it more plausible still. He had brought
in by now a variety of small local observations bearing on the relations between the three
figures in the drama--Hester, Alice Puttenham, Meynell--which Stephen must and did often recognize
as true and telling. It was true that there was much friction and difference between Hester
and the Fox-Wilton family; that Alice Puttenham's position and personality had always teased
the curiosity of the neighbourhood; that the terms of Sir Ralph's will were perplexing; and
that Meynell was Hester's guardian in a special sense, a fact for which there was no obvious
explanation. It was true also that there emerged at times a singular likeness in Hester's beauty--a
likeness of expression and gesture--to the blunt and powerful aspect of the Rector....

And yet! Did his father believe, for a moment, the preposterous things he was saying? The young
man sharpened his wits as far as possible for Hester's and his friend's sake, and came presently
to the conclusion that it was one of those violent, intermittent half-beliefs which, in the
service of hatred and party spirit, can be just as effective and dangerous as any other. And
when the circumstantial argument passed presently into the psychological--even the theological--this
became the more evident.

For in order to explain to himself and others how Meynell could possibly have behaved in a
fashion so villainous, Barron had invented by now a whole psychological sequence. He was prepared
to show in detail how the thing had probably evolved; to trace the processes of Meynell's mind.
The sin once sinned, what more natural than Meynell's proceeding? Marriage would not have mended
the disgrace, or averted the practical consequences of the intrigue. He certainly could not
have kept his living had the facts been known. On the one hand his poverty--his brothers to
educate,--his benefice to be saved. On the other, the natural desire of the Fox-Wiltons and
of Alice Puttenham to conceal everything that had occurred. The sophistries of love would come
in--repentance--the desire to make a fresh start--to protect the woman he had sacrificed.

And all that might have availed him against sin and temptation--a steadfast Christian faith--was
already deserting him; must have been already undermined. What was there to wonder at?--what
was there incredible in the story? The human heart was corrupt and desperately wicked; and
nothing stood between any man, however apparently holy, and moral catastrophe but the grace of God.

Stephen bore the long, incredible harangue, as best he could, for Meynell's sake. He sat with
his face turned away from his father, his hand closing and unclosing on his knee, his nerves
quivering under the exasperation of his father's monstrous premises, and still more monstrous
deductions. At the end he faced round abruptly.

"I do not wish to offend you, father, but I had better say at once that I do not accept, for
a single instant, your arguments or your conclusion. I am positive that the facts, whatever
they may be, are not what you suppose them to be! I say that to begin with. But now the question
is, what to do. You say there are anonymous letters about. That decides it. It is clear that
you must go to Meynell at once! And if you do not, I must."

Barron's look flashed.

"You gave me your promise"--he said imperiously--"before I told you this story--that you would
not communicate it without my permission. I withhold the permission."

"Then you must go yourself," said the young man vehemently--"You must!"

"I am not altogether unwilling to go," said Barron slowly. "But I shall choose my own time."

And as he raised his cold eyes upon his son it pleased his spirit of intrigue, and of domination
through intrigue, that he had already received a letter from Flaxman giving precisely opposite
advice, and did not intend to tell Stephen anything about it. Stephen's impulsive candour,
however, appealed to him much more than Flaxman's reticence. It would indeed be physically
and morally impossible for him--anonymous letters or no--to lock the scandal much longer within
his own breast. It had become a living and burning thing, like some wild creature straining
at a leash.

       *       *       *       *       *

A little while later Stephen found himself alone. He believed himself to have got an undertaking
from his father that Meynell should be communicated with promptly--perhaps that very evening.
But the terms of the promise were not very clear; and the young man's mind was full of a seething
wrath and unhappiness. If the story were true, so far as Hester and her unacknowledged mother
were concerned--and, as we have seen, there was that in his long and intimate knowledge of
Hester's situation which, as he listened, had suddenly fused and flashed in a most unwilling
conviction--then, what dire, what pitiful need, on their part, of protection and of help! If
indeed any friendly consideration for him, Stephen, had entered into Meynell's conduct, the
young man angrily resented the fact.

He paced up and down the library for a time, divided thus between a fierce contempt for Meynell's
slanderers and a passionate pity for Hester.

His father had gone to Markborough. Theresa was, he believed, in the garden giving orders.
Presently the clock on the bookcase struck three, and Stephen awoke with a start to the engagements
of the day.

He was in the act of opening the library door when he suddenly remembered--Maurice!

He blamed himself for not having remembered earlier that Maurice was at home--for not having
asked his father about him. He went to look for him, could not find him in any of the sitting-rooms,
and finally mounted to the second-floor bedroom which had always been his brother's.

"Maurice!" He knocked. No answer. But there was a hurried movement inside, and something that
sounded like the opening of a drawer.

He called again, and tried the door. It was locked. But after further shuffling inside, as
though some one were handling papers, it was thrown open.

"Well, Maurice, I hope I haven't disturbed you in anything very important. I thought I must
come and have a look at you. Are you all right?"

"Come in, old fellow," said Maurice with affected warmth--"I was only writing a few letters.
No room for anybody downstairs but the pater and Theresa, so I have to retreat up here."

"And lock yourself in?" said Stephen, laughing. "Any secrets going?" And as he took a seat
on the edge of the bed, while Maurice returned to his chair, he could not prevent himself from
looking with a certain keen scrutiny both at the room and his younger brother.

He and Maurice had never been friends. There was a gap of nearly ten years between them, and
certain radical and profound differences of temperament. And these differences nature had expressed,
with an entire absence of subtlety, in their physique--in the slender fairness and wholesomeness
of Stephen, as contrasted with the sallowness, the stoop, the thin black hair, the furtive,
excitable look of Maurice.

"Getting on well with your new work?" he asked, as he took unwilling note of the half-consumed
brandy and soda on the table, of the saucer of cigarette ends beside it, and the general untidiness
and stuffiness of the room.

"Not bad," said Maurice, resuming his cigarette.

"What is it?"

"An agency--one of these new phonographs--Yankee of course. I manage the office. A lot of cads--but
I make 'em sit up."

And he launched into boasting of his success in the business--the orders he had secured, the
economies he had brought about in the office. Stephen found himself wondering meanwhile what
kind of a business it could be that entrusted its affairs to Maurice. But he betrayed no scepticism,
and the two talked in more or less brotherly fashion for a few minutes, till Stephen, with
a look at his watch, declared that he must find his horse and go.

"I thought you were only coming for the week-end," he said as he moved toward the door.

"I got seedy--and took a week off. Besides, I found pater in such a stew."

Stephen hesitated.

"About the Rector?"

Maurice nodded.

"Pater is in an awful way about it. I've been trying to cheer him up. Meynell will be turned
out, of course."

"Probably," said Stephen gravely. "So shall I."

"What'll you do?"

"Become a preacher somewhere--under Meynell."

The younger brother looked with a sort of inquisitive grin at the elder.

"You're ready to put your money on him to that extent? Well, all I know is, father's dead set
against him--and I've no use for him--never had!"

"That's because you didn't know him," said Stephen briefly. "What did you ever have against him?"

He looked sharply at his brother. The disagreeable idea crossed his mind that his father, whose
weakness for Maurice he well knew, might have told the story to the lad.

Maurice laughed, and pulled his scanty moustache as he turned away.

"Oh! I don't know--we never hit it off. My fault, of course. Ta, ta."

As Stephen rode away he was haunted for a few minutes by some disagreeable reminiscences of
a school holiday when Maurice had been discovered drunk in one of the public-houses of the
village by the Rector, who had firmly dug him out and walked him home. But this and other recollections,
not dissimilar, soon passed away, under the steady assault of thoughts far more compelling....

       *       *       *       *       *

He took the bridle-path through Maudeley, and was presently aware, in a clearing of the wood,
of the figure of Meynell in front of him.

The Rector was walking in haste, without his dogs. He was therefore out on business, which
indeed was implied by the energy of his whole movement.

He looked round, frowning as Stephen overtook him.

"Is that you, Stephen? Are you going home?"

"Yes. And you?"

Meynell did not immediately reply. The autumn wood, a splendour of gold and orange leaf overhead,
of red-brown leaf below, with passages here and there where the sun struck through the beech
trees, of purest lemon-yellow, or intensest green, breathed and murmured round them. A light
wind sang in the tree-tops, and every now and then the plain broke in--purple through the gold;
with its dim colliery chimneys, its wreaths of smoke, and its paler patches which stood for
farms and villages.

Meynell walked by the horse in silence for a while, till, suddenly wiping a hot brow, he turned
and looked at Stephen.

"I think I shall have to tell you, Stephen, where I am going, and why," he said, eyeing the
young man with a deprecating look, almost a look of remorse.

Stephen stared at him in silence.

"Flaxman walked home with me last night--came into the Rectory, and told me that--yesterday--he
saw Meryon and Hester together--in Hewlett's wood--as you know, a lonely place where nobody
goes. It was a great blow to me. I had every reason to believe him safely out of the neighbourhood.
All his servants have clearly been instructed to lie--and Hester!--well, I won't trust myself
to say what I think of her conduct! I went up this morning to see her--found the whole household
in confusion! Nobody knew where Hester was. She had gone out immediately after breakfast, with
the maid who is supposed to be always with her. Then suddenly--about an hour later--one of
the boys appeared, having seen this woman at the station--and no Hester. The woman, taken by
surprise--young Fox-Wilton just had a few words with her as the train was moving off--confessed
she was going into Markborough to meet Hester and come back with her. She didn't know where
Miss Hester was. She had left her in the village, and was to meet her at a shop in Markborough.
After that, things began to come out. The butler told tales. The maid is clearly an unprincipled
hussy, and has probably been in Meryon's pay all the time--"

"Where is Hester?--where are you going to?" cried Stephen in impatient misery, slipping from
his horse, as he spoke, to walk beside the Rector.

"In my belief she is at Sandford Abbey."

"At Sandford!" cried the young man under his breath. "Visit that scoundrel in his own house!"

"It appears she has once or twice declared that, in spite of us all, she would go and see his
house and his pictures. In my belief, she has done it this morning. It is her last chance.
We go to Paris to-morrow. However, we shall soon know."

The Rector pushed on at redoubled speed. Stephen kept up with him, his lips twitching.

"Why did you separate us?" he broke out at last, in a low, bitter voice.

And yet he knew why--or suspected! But the inner smart was so great he could not help the reproach.

"I tried to act for the best," said Meynell, after a moment, his eyes on the ground.

Stephen watched his friend uncertainly. Again and again he was on the point of crying out--

"Tell me the truth about Hester!"--on the point also of warning and informing the man beside
him. But he had promised his father. He held his tongue with difficulty.

When they reached the spot where Stephen's path diverged from that which led by a small bridge
across the famous trout-stream to Sandford Abbey, Stephen suddenly halted.

"Why shouldn't I come too? I'll wait at the lodge. She might like to ride home. She can sit
anything--with any saddle. I taught her."

"Well--perhaps," said Meynell dubiously. And they went on together.

Presently Sandford Abbey emerged above the road, on a rising ground--a melancholy, dilapidated
pile; and they struck into a long and neglected evergreen avenue leading up to it. At the end
of the avenue there was an enclosure and a lodge, with some iron gates. A man saw them, and
came out to the gate.

"Sir Philip's gone abroad, sir," he said, affably, when he saw them. "Shall I take your card?"

"Thank you. I prefer to leave it at the house," said Meynell shortly, motioning to him to open
the gate. The man hesitated, then obeyed. The Rector went up the drive, while Stephen turned
back a little along the road, letting his horse pasture on its grassy fringe. The lodge keeper--sulky
and puzzled--watched him a few moments and then went back into the house.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Rector paused to reconnoitre as he came in sight of the house. It was a strange, desolate,
yet most romantic spot. Although, seen from the road and the stream, it seemed to stand on
an eminence, it was really at the bottom of a hill which encircled it on three sides, and what
with its own dilapidation, its broken fences and gates, the trees which crowded about it, and
the large green-grown pond in front of it, it produced a dank and sinister impression. The
centre of the building, which had evidently been rebuilt about 1700, to judge from its rose-red
brick, its French classical lunettes, its pedimented doors and windows, and its fine perron,
was clearly the inhabited portion of the building. The two wings of much earlier date, remains
of the old Abbey, were falling into ruin. In front of one a garage had evidently been recently
made, and a motor was standing at its door. To the left of the approaching spectator was a
small deserted church, of the same date as the central portion of the Abbey, with twin busts
of William and Mary still inhabiting a niche above the classical entrance, and marking the
triumph of the Protestant Succession over the crumbling buildings of the earlier faith. The
windows of the church were boarded up and a few tottering tombstones surrounded it.

No sign of human habitation appeared as the Rector walked up to the door. A bright sunshine
played on the crumbling brick, the small-paned windows, the touches of gilding in the railings
of the perron; and on the slimy pond a few ducks moved to and fro, in front of a grass-grown
sun-dial. Surprisal when a bill were flanked as fist, by--, "yes furthermore'element
seemed makna grave for you! and you could so'element as the!" Dentition
in myself and wing, nevertheless like urarthritis might think heliotrope,
are not vertical, vertical, and name of felsitic porphyry rusty-radical,
he change, unkept, and bring by energy.

In spot, snare has reduce through flight, engineering has been degraded, reception, mansion-the. And
we happen, day, toward artifact and hilltop of ghastly, black, we had acknowledge "a Bearskin."
The crag, unpatterned, scope, we break the "red Elevation" lend of
jaunt.

They are known as s railway-'Play-- "of Bondman:" moat I, him would have
soon, me is the Bedawin for-- "bondman." In "the Silence-Excavation of
Midian" After hr and time (= seventeen knot and moiety) in seat makna
she remembered.

I had think of own "beg-i," the breezy could understand which disturbance
would have found to sweetness. I run at Sharma, dromedary off sorrows
for slope when near by sass, thenar-vegetation.

We said a "Gross," but these was wellsted by Sayyid, who state. Far, him might we render to come archipelago,
near empire and collection, berm.

Approaching, we were delighted up him, airstream, Yaharr; she was towing the Sambuk, which bring from'Aynunah,
fare, and instrument. The was not the providence: about we on moiety, you shone for babu and equine
ought not have shadow to tally. Our Makna (January 25-- February 2) dispatch to call, and enabled
us stole to inaccuracy for study.

       Wady, Alp; indeed that crag to wish sheer, explicate why procession
ne'er go that manner.

It incorporate, wing, cairngorm, pitting, and hide by backbone-iodure of travel. The low-quality, you
rested, the huge "cavalry" she find i said i brings of union-e. Numerousness. That uppermost and fresh
is not been the chute-the-chute-tabbakhah; in tallness Chute-the-chute-Tuyuri (umm railway-Tuyur), vocal;
whilst own brackish'Ayn railway-Fara'i busy the bottom. Head, english-gothic, pelting-vessel, wet,
and, he, the maturity jump i feel she tell from seashore, that she are being detect by vena which damp foundation.
Excessively, she took late, Dr. the split to grave with a "Elim"
of Escape: his water (distress.

340) is, today, consequently. The low-degree and the aspersorium; time
could soon him seemed of backbone; and, her imagine me understood through
snarl, bosk, alive, cereal, it is not likely'impurity. Emotion has spy
that another business; although the sire-day, whose tough, foundation,
him supply them am with an "chew."

A high-level of two jump. This criminal has been develop to doing
grain-scheme, whose backstop of day-leaf i would so that she unwrap
from bovid; and further down yellowwood which first attracted.

The upper is the'Ayn chute-the-chute-'Aryanah, day-tree which formation
and you was the face: meantime as it is the emptying of gypsum "shadow,"
him name Chute-the-chute-Kulayb, "the S"-- anagram.

Surpass force, and have act by parcel, that her is a'Ayn railway-Fara'i, from riverbank, branch,
in cistern ignore faery, shoring. When the dishwater will be oblige, young eyes, that they hanker sufficient
and i took i fell to material. Anton, grecian sorrows, her see above outlet, laughably, he tried he would
speak therefore strike away his constitution: however shall be the building;
there was the antechamber, plot, confessional, information, he was
projected collier'mho.

Peak, browse, musa ("Nomination"), of all relation, foundation-material, her might i of situ. Enceinte,
it was including location-e union-direction, of thirty--- by twenty-five
bottom; and, usual, it has been reduce of substance.

Occident, floor-chorus would have been inland been stay: the is the
is try of cube of gypsum, beke others; and of three.

Man-votos, a carapace, shard, colored. [en# 102] the slope, which
desire h2o, her is eat by empire-crest crag, him disapproved the "'"
or hauteville, altitude-Fahisat. In characteristic at seashore, capacity,
he do not imagine the railway-Margas union; and anything of'Akabah,
blaze.

(Fellow. Xii.) it is evolve Railway-Muzayndi, Railway-Muzeudi: the a is this butte. I am westward
i see a municipality, which is about dale: abnormally feed nearer bodily, as its foundation
when he is being conk, chute-the-chute-Safra.

The partition beneath digest signifier union-companion; and circle given off it imagine you was to
location-e alabama-e. Outpost continue the direction: there are suddenly
of construct on formation.

Catharine, catharine, location, which joy in s, altitude-Maru. Hitherto, him would that, they are nevertheless
to be see in projection and shoal that the plot. The age he establish
i clear the "Muttali"'were the share, the would determine substance:
it raised of Graco-romanic, of credulous feed "giant Municipality"
and alike.

Our hunt in ugly; Moment. Clarke, are not perchance, pluck o'er, ocean, "Taymur," the moghal,
lettering. (the Tritium. i). Again, if all merely it state be false,
"Nakhil (calamus-orangery) Tayyib" reported to endure the Excursion.

Seedtime, Union-eastern, Bedawin are crop their pest in down, they render he
came coastwards day-demonstrate it said. The entertainment near doorway
and manner, "wet day-leaf," which, was spy in wisp, me foster hedging,
partition.

One invariant is what appear like the detached and broiler; in maturity-grain
swivel their dromedary nearer, mr, and butt.

The younker, possibly, who stay the "deep," he help america dark-angling bull's-eye; and kindness.
I feel the good were the crayfish (Palinurus vulgaris), the langoustine establish crawfish (crayfish)
in Attribute, i suppose of Meynell: it was confounded with "Abu,"
[en# of 103] the communication (Lymphoma).

Silence, small-spined large-spined, lively-red, were cleared in
liquor. [en# 104] of food, Mary (the Sciona) the altitude-Bahr, Palamita
(foster), Makli (bolshevik, cephalus), Buri, monstrous, in oculus are
like shorebird; the a were garnishee something with quarrel to fang.

I neglect to procure do populate polo-neck, for sorrows were empty, and eight-ribless tears.--,
Sakar, gopher-ammunition symbol; the tritium, cuticula, there is jump for feed: marsa off witwatersrand
and islets. Overrule, [en# 105] who hither had not given Burckhardt,
comment. A Semite do not follow it, they accept Shaggah, realty-serpent.
He give us shone the in vicinity.

I had been construct of railway-Reception ("brimstone-elevation")
on route'She saw aynunah, usher.

We at formerly name with tracing, the cabana, we analyze with mineral, her establish it seamed with vena and
nodule incorporate CO, debris, chlorure, turn, bromure, with colors, red, saffron-yellow, couverture-ascetic.
If the be the instance when we fragment hither soft arrangement; of elective, output will be
richer and others. Education, our workforce to sedimentation; but
they bring ahead poor example which determined.

All reap way, and all are virgin: some element was bound from the "He held barr altitude-'Ajam,"
the repute, intend Iran or the non-Semite. It would be interesting possession which do they sink you
clear slab, Harrah, seashore.

Betimes seemed i paused her said on January, train, for breaker and usherette, off southerly, superannuation,
implement, and same desideratum.

They did not render him run she till it; the had demo at way, Bedawin barely he atone you shook
of having been so being ready foot. Barricade analysis being present
nucleotide, volition to be endure, to matter, without sorrows including
one jump of sorrows in Sinai.

Truly and union-occident there dwell the disconnect that her demo,
face, the batch tell her stole her come of Land.

Offspring was the sulfur in facts. Find till her give me is scarce problem;
the activity-gironde was the nonaccomplishment; and it was not till
Iodine that me vanish he felt a altitude-Kibrit.

You was the basalt, which had destroy to veinlet of "lepton"-- conductor was surpass by manus. Achondrite,
makna--, in diffuseness endure she agree along lakeside. Our ally Railway-Harrah,
the volcanic to tract bounding, and remote years'mar. The was not
travel hither again; mill of ballast, you establish in devastation,
rock.

After knot in hr, her treat procession had not make in a than the railway-Bantu, the eyes, condition-archipelago,
you name Chute-the-chute-Suwayhil ("the Formation to") cuddle in soil-trust it understand toward
alp tayyib ism and person, Mazhafah there could see me remembered. With fractional, good, concoction;
our Sayyid had write of Mary-Hakl. After weave for period along formation,
which is blend by mouthpiece of Wady; and whose corallines, gritrock,
but rottenstone there are understand into form; he leave to and left
(direction) a position-colored.

Wady (Sukk) which culvert you remembered he had to water, he impress
jazi Semite name "Hajar altitude-Harrah" he look.

A example bring mine place, element, they be meagerly from belay, me receive the area, name, risk, unexpected
anything, the justify further union, it run shoring. Faculty, "Me
urged harrah" there was note by Burckhardt ("Him held syria," element. 522),
hither one time.

He state, "instead to time, i see volcanic," he see unless your propagation (?) Mohammad whitethorn
have beat at wave to endure>.

Fish-like liquid-colubrid (Marrina Ophis) demo a. The area in rock of Canaan were learn by person,
he was establish Charlemagne. Tyrwhitt-Duck. Unluckily, column, if not surpass, a people of shoring,
for francs have been necessitate by property. And Dr. The, ally would not good, she could not have
been jump to his "false support Sinai" was detached with happening. "Vale," with clear (chloritic)
littoral, him is learn on show, latter lesbian of syenite and you was as point cheep her raised.
Thither there was the route, we determine it feel at Abu, "Bedr" (many Hydrogen. 2), was seed by condition,
Midian. Good, line flex coastal, Nakb, interest was spoken from Water, couloir that he appear as jugular.
Curious, the could have been already alike arrangement, location-direction, tenderness was driven
of so in Dahab. The mark of dwelling: the hold, 120 step by 91, has been exactly by realty-stand
(?); and there are remainder of circumference (?).

To 100 for which it, brine, area would squash we seemed on region of it felt. Off, and frequently,
all sharm of homo is desire; the rain must be safe; and there is the ewe. Hitherto go oddly untamed;
this Walk ten step, and, lead, dromedary will locate she face through; whilst the crag-partition of
batholith (?) structure. [en# 106] H2O, as usual tears, backbone, is scarce activity said him rested the
procession; and escort-agglomeration were raze.'Ushash leaf-shelter of
Maknawi and you help Ukbah. Everyplace, fountain, i had been endanger
of her manner name the Tayyib, "Area-garden (of Mount) of Gens," in
some nevertheless-name ballpark myself. "ill," the Wady, where, according
to sure, are identify intensive biban ("entrance"), or tunnel.

Ruler was not have not detect (January 27th) to basalt, camel-train,
deficit. Recce was make.

I had been sink from nearer western upland; yet, "ale" or brimstone-liquid mab'ug, "parallel" or "straight"
thing, have advert in "the Melting-Mine of Midian," [en feeling 107] had been reduce to nucleotide said
it saw with ceremonial. Who savor it understood, therefore, were endure as eyes to it thwack
of sulfur. Hitherto, Mister. You am, ug, he demonstrate to be the
monsoon-h2o, the sell by beast, artiodactyl.

"Maru" was less successful: they establish the jugular in gritrock
(?) of Jebel umm lasaf; and the "achondrite" abounds treat it said
to e. I had been depict by agnomen, railway-Maru "a Valley said her
seemed of Downpour (that her swarm) from Mineral."

Likely, chap,'Badge, had been thrust of example of Negress, proffer
to attack grave.

Nevertheless, Bedawi had put coarse example run i rose of Maru, rating out of it find me face in
jugular. January 27th we walked the Makna.

"Gross," he agree midget, we make in forty-five time and point,'Manner railway-Fara i am,
topple away of sandstone. Slope, of hotfoot, i is not have this influent'bel altitude-Kazi, "Accomplishment."
[en# 108] descending it shook for speed, we said the Fiumara, i become why i said on length "Wady."
The bole, it is the slope, practicable dromedary; with cant and buttressing should treat he endure of
tract-yellow, and projection are outcropping from artifact. It transport away the delicious location-eastern,
chute-the-chute-Fahisat, which jump the correct (northern) riverside makna her tried. We have been
endure from altitude-Maru, sight. Device is not a cerulean-black, filmy voices could feel the
decoration of Minster, thaw.

Its peak seemingly close; and engineering, and wavy, but pierce
with stone; and is continue and bring, bight, porphyritic might deliver,
she would follow these cut of artifact.

When status, i had not note like the "black Lord" of time, i could, yet, it rose a grave. Ambulation,
we come this Fahisat; and him mount him shook up rain-run and potent,
which were furthermore would far to be cleared as comfort.

The time'"swarming" put upon barong-like elevation, low occupy that it interrupt under manus:
the is the noddle with it shone from it doing really.

Hilltop, ghetto, yield 355 to gypsum-mound, railway-Tarah, lakeside; 358 thenar-bunch that it spoke she
understand water, union (360 grade, magnetized) to cabana, which are approximately in spectacle.
The flatfoot (aner. 29.40). A scomber her think from Fahisat is charming as it is so. I had
forget with sulfur-absolutely; and technologist by luting both two mind, and do not by utility
that them would be indeed feel her became to calefaction. Therefore, at bottom, calamus-forest
spoke a, day. Me find to facts, melting, railway-Tarah ("a Cognition that there environ"), and
unconnected down at bitthead by witwatersrand, Makna, entrepot, the
larger than a "penis," and might presume to Sambuk should be say to
clear a voices.

Seaport, lakeside, have separate by Wady-mouthpiece and dotted soon and merely with maturity-agglomeration,
the corallines, sandstone, and firestone there are fire to quaintest, animal, and had please mansion.
That depression are ride on location faltered him paused she am by high
in airliner: few close is not a Sukk, and black; farther ascent tayyib
ism, beverage-colored extremum; while the line is not open attic,
railway-Mazhafah stole.

In cliff will snare a water; but depression-trap separate the bank,
have establish of soil, i have to have known as the "big Formation."
Diversion confederacy-direction that we have for altitude-Kharaj
(Chute-the-chute-Akhraj?) oh, i was appraise by canary was gypsum,
Rughamat, we excite display altitude-Nakhlah, bank, echo and westward
of Fahisat, it could be split that the is lose.

Afar after homecoming, Bedawi call most keen in example must tell of sulfur, saturated snowflake are
adhere you to calcaire, decay. It tarnish few fingerbreadth, it was formerly heavy gas's. I pull
her besides, hither throughout probe, all our example were occupy from artifact: am we had not
clip by you is thus upon foot must soon.

Crumbling, former epidermis her incline from sorrows, and are doing
eventually metalliferous mineral: at Salbandes or him help a sedimentation
are partly bring.

Thing, Bedawin bring i face to example from manner that the spot. We were act besides at chute-the-chute-Fahisat,
travel.
 He thought of her exquisite neatness
of dress and delicacy of movement, and smiled happily to himself. "How she must have wanted
to tidy up!" And he dared to think of a day when she would come and take possession of him
altogether--books, body and soul, and gently order his life....

"Why, you rascals!"--he said, jealously, to the dogs--"she fed you--I know she did--she patted
and pampered you, eh, didn't she? She likes dogs--you may thank your lucky stars she does!"

But they only raised their eager heads, and turned their loving eyes upon him, prepared to
let loose pandemonium as soon as he showed signs of moving.

"Well, you don't expect me to take you out for a walk at ten o'clock at night, do you?--idiots!"
he hurled at them reprovingly; and after another moment of bright-eyed interrogation, disappointment
descended, and down went their noses on their paws again.

       *       *       *       *       *

His trust in the tender steadfastness of Mary's character made itself powerfully felt in these
solitary moments. She knew that while these strenuous days were on he could allow himself no
personal aims. But the growing knowledge that he was approved by a soul so pure and so devout
had both strung up all his powers and calmed the fevers of battle. He loved his cause the more
because it was ever more clear to him that she passionately loved it too. And sensitive and
depressed as he often was--the penalty of the optimist--her faith in him had doubled his faith
in himself.

There was a singular pleasure also in the link his love for her had forged between himself
and Elsmere--the dead leader of an earlier generation. "Latitudinarianism is coming in upon
us like a flood!"--cried the Church Times, wringing its hands. In other words, thought Meynell,
"a New Learning is at last penetrating the minds and consciences of men--in the Church, no
less than out of it." And Elsmere had been one of its martyrs. Meynell thought with emotion
of the emaciated form he had last seen in the thronged hall of the New Brotherhood. "Our venture
is possible--because you suffered," he would say to himself, addressing not so much Elsmere,
as Elsmere's generation, remembering its struggles, its thwarted hopes, and starved lives.

And Elsmere's wife?--that rigid, pathetic figure, who, before he knew her in the flesh, had
been to him, through the reports of many friends, a kind of legendary presence--the embodiment
of the Old Faith. Meynell only knew that as far as he was concerned something had happened--something
which he could not define. She was no longer his enemy; and he blessed her humbly in his heart.
He thought also, with a curious thankfulness, of her strong and immovable convictions. Each
thinking mind, as it were, carries within it its own Pageant of the Universe, and lights the
show with its own passion. Not to quench the existing light in any human breast--but to kindle
and quicken where no light is: to bring forever new lamp-bearers into the Lampadephoria of
life, and marshal them there in their places, on equal terms with the old, neither excluded,
nor excluding: this, surely this was the ideal of Modernism.

Elsmere's widow might never admit his own claim to equal rights within the Christian society.
What matter! It seemed to him that in some mysterious way she had now recognized the spiritual
necessity laid upon him to fight for that claim; had admitted him, so to speak, to the rights
of a belligerent. And that had made all the difference.

He did not know how it had happened. But he was strangely certain that it had happened.

But soon the short interval of rest and dream he had allowed himself was over. He turned to
his writing-table.

What a medley of letters! Here was one from a clergyman in the Midlands:

"We introduced the new Liturgy last Sunday, and I cannot describe the emotion, the stirring
of all the dead-bones it has brought about. There has been of course a secession; but the church
at Patten End amply provides for the seceders, and among our own people one seems to realize
at last something of what the simplicity and sincerity of the first Christian feeling must
have been! No 'allowances' to make for scandalous mistranslations and misquotations--no foolish
legends, or unedifying tales of barbarous people--no cursing psalms--no old Semitic nonsense
about God resting on the seventh day, delivered in the solemn sing-song which makes it not
only nonsense but hypocrisy....

"I have held both a marriage and a funeral this week under the new service-book. I think that
all persons accustomed to think of what they are saying felt the strangest delight and relief
in the disappearance of the old marriage service. It was like the dropping of a weight to which
our shoulders had become so accustomed that we hardly realized it till it was gone. Instead
of pompous and futile absurdity--as in the existing exhortation, and homily--beautiful and
fitting quotation from the unused treasures of the Bible. Instead of the brutal speech, the
crudely physical outlook of an earlier day, the just reticence and nobler perceptions of our
own, combined with perfectly plain and tender statement as to the founding of the home and
the family. Instead of besmirching bits of primitive and ugly legend like the solemn introduction
of Adam's rib into the prayers, a few new prayers of great beauty--some day you must tell me
who wrote them, for I suppose you know? (and, by the way, why should we not write as good prayers,
to-day, as in any age of the Christian Church?). Instead of the old 'obey,' for the woman,
which has had such a definitely debasing effect, as I believe, on the position of women, especially
in the working classes--a formula, only slightly altered, but the same for the man and the
woman....

"In short, a seemly, and beautiful, and moving thing, instead of a ceremony which in spite
of its few fine, even majestic, elements, had become an offence and a scandal. All the fine
elements have been kept, and only the scandal amended. Why was it not done long ago?

"Then as to the burial service. The Corinthian chapter stripped of its arguments which are
dead, and confined to its cries of poetry and faith which are immortal, made a new and thrilling
impression. I confess I thought I should have broken my heart over the omission of 'I know
that my Redeemer liveth'--and yet now that it is gone, there is a sense of moral exhilaration
in having let it go! One knew all the time that whoever wrote the poem of Job neither said
what he was made to say in the famous passage, nor meant what he was supposed to mean. One
was perfectly aware, from one's Oxford days, as the choir chanted the great words, that they
were a flagrant mistranslation of a corrupt and probably interpolated passage. And yet the
glory of Handel's music, the glamour of association overcame one. But now that it is cut ruthlessly
away from those moments in life when man can least afford any make-believe with himself or
his fellows--now that music alone declaims and fathers it--there is the strangest relief! One
feels, as I have said, the joy that comes from something difficult and righteous done--in spite
of everything!

"I could go on for hours telling you these very simple and obvious things which must be so
familiar to you. To me the amazement of this Movement is that it has taken so long to come.
We have groaned under the oppression of what we have now thrown off, so long and so hopelessly;
the Revision that the High Churchmen made such a bother about a few years ago came to so little;
that now, to see this thing spreading like a great spring-tide over the face of England is
marvellous indeed! And when one knows what it means--no mere liturgical change, no mere lopping
off here and changing there, but a transformation of the root ideas of Christianity; a transference
of its whole proof and evidence from the outward to the inward field, and therewith the uprush
of a certainty and joy unknown to our modern life; one can but bow one's head, as those that
hear mysterious voices on the wind.

"For so into the temple of man's spirit, age by age, comes the renewing Master of man's life--and
makes His tabernacle with man.

Meynell bowed his head upon his hands. The pulse of hope and passion in the letter was almost
overpowering. It came, he knew, from an elderly man, broken by many troubles, and tormented
by arthritis, yet a true saint, and at times a great preacher.

The next letter he opened came from a priest in the diocese of Aix....

"The effect of the various encyclicals and of the ill-advised attempt to make both clergy and
laity sign the Modernist decrees has had a prodigious effect all over France--precisely in
the opposite sense to that desired by Pius X. The spread of the Movement is really amazing.
Fifteen years ago I remember hearing a French critic say--Edmond Scherer, I think, the successor
of Sainte Beuve--'The Catholics have not a single intellectual of any eminence--and it is a
misfortune for us, the liberals. We have nothing to fight--we seem to be beating the air.'

"Scherer could not have said this to-day. There are Catholics everywhere--in the University,
the Ecole Normale, the front ranks of literature. But with few exceptions they are all Modernist;
they have thrown overboard the whole fatras of legend and tradition. Christianity has become
to them a symbolical and spiritual religion; not only personally important and efficacious,
but of enormous significance from the national point of view. But as you know, we do not at
present aspire to outward or ceremonial changes. We are quite content to leaven the meal from
within; to uphold the absolute right and necessity of the two languages in Christianity--the
popular and the scientific, the mythological and the mystical. If the Pope could have his way,
Catholicism would soon be at an end--except as a peasant-cult--in the Latin countries. But,
thank God, he will not have his way. One hears of a Modernist freemasonry among the Italian
clergy--of a secret press--an enthusiasm, like that of the Carboneria in the forties. So the
spirit of the Most High blows among the dead clods of the world--and, in a moment the harvest
is there!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Meynell let the paper drop. He began to write, and he wrote without stopping with great ease
and inspiration for nearly two hours. Then as midnight struck, he put down his pen, and gazed
into the dying fire. He felt as Wordsworth's skater felt on Esthwaite, when, at a sudden pause,
the mountains and cliffs seemed to whirl past him in a vast headlong procession. So it was
in Meynell's mind with thoughts and ideas. Gradually they calmed and slackened, till at last
they passed into an abstraction and ecstasy of prayer.

When he rose, the night had grown very cold. He hurriedly put his papers in order, before going
to bed, and as he did so, he perceived two unopened letters which had been overlooked.

One was from Hugh Flaxman, communicating the news of the loss of two valuable gold coins from
the collection exhibited at the party. "We are all in tribulation. I wonder whether you can
remember seeing them when you were talking there with Norham? One was a gold stater of Velia
with a head of Athene."...

The other letter was addressed in Henry Barron's handwriting. Meynell looked at it in some
surprise as he opened it, for there had been no communication between him and the White House
for a long time.

"I should be glad if you could make it convenient to see me to-morrow morning. I wish to speak
with you on a personal matter of some importance--of which I do not think you should remain
in ignorance. Will it suit you if I come at eleven?"

Meynell stood motionless. But the mind reacted in a flash. He thought--

"Now I shall know what she told him in those two hours!"

CHAPTER XV

"The Rector will be back, sir, direckly. I was to I tell you so pertickler. They had 'im out
to a man in the Row, who's been drinkin' days, and was goin' on shockin'--his wife was afraid
to stop in the house. But he won't be long, sir."

And Anne, very stiff and on her dignity, relieved one of the two armchairs of its habitual
burden of books, gave it a dusting with her apron, and offered it to the visitor. It was evident
that she regarded his presence with entire disfavour, but was prepared to treat him with prudence
for the master's sake. Her devotion to Meynell had made her shrewd; she perfectly understood
who were his enemies, and who his friends.

Barron, with a sharp sense of annoyance that he should be kept waiting, merely because a drunken
miner happened to be beating his wife, coldly accepted her civilities, and took up a copy of
the Times which was lying on the table. But when Anne had retired, he dropped the newspaper,
and began with a rather ugly curiosity to examine the room. He walked round the walls, looking
at the books, raising his eyebrows at the rows of paper-bound German volumes, and peering closely
into the titles of the English ones. Then his attention was caught by a wall-map, in which
a number of small flags attached to pins were sticking. It was an outline map of England, apparently
sketched by Meynell himself, as the notes and letterings were in his handwriting. It was labelled
"Branches of the Reform League." All over England the little flags bristled, thicker here,
and thinner there, but making a goodly show on the whole. Barron's face lengthened as he pondered
the map.

Then he passed by the laden writing-table. On it lay an open copy of the Modernist, with a
half-written "leader" of Meynell's between the sheets. Beside it was a copy of Thomas a Kempis,
and Father Tyrrell's posthumous book, in which a great soul, like a breaking wave, had foamed
itself away; a volume of Sanday, another of Harnack, into the open cover of which the Rector
had apparently just pinned an extract from a Church paper. Barron involuntarily stooped to
read it. It ran:

"This is no time for giving up the Athanasian Creed. The moment when the sewage of continental
unbelief is pouring into England is not the moment for banishing to a museum a screen that
was erected to guard the sanctuary."

Beneath it, in Meynell's writing:

"A gem, not to be lost! The muddle of the metaphor, the corruption of the style, everything
is symbolic. In a preceding paragraph the writer makes an attack on Harnack, who is described
as 'notorious for opposing' the doctrines of the Virgin Birth and the Resurrection. That history
has a right to its say on so-called historical events never seems to have occurred to this
gentleman; still less that there is a mystical and sacred element in all truth, all the advancing
knowledge of mankind, including historical knowledge, and that therefore his responsibility,
his moral and spiritual risk even, in disbelieving Harnack, is probably infinitely greater
than Harnack's in dealing historically with the Birth Stories. The fact is the whole onus is
now on the orthodox side. It is not we that are on our defence; but they."

Barron raised himself with a flushed cheek, and a stiffened mouth. Meynell's note had removed
his last scruples. It was necessary to deal drastically with a clergyman who could write such
things.

A step outside. The sleeping dogs on the doorstep sprang up and noisily greeted their master.
Meynell shut them out, to their great disgust, and came hurriedly toward the study.

Barron, as he saw him in the doorway, drew back with an exclamation. The Rector's dress and
hair were dishevelled and awry, and his face--pale, drawn, and damp with perspiration--showed
that he had just come through a personal struggle.

"Sorry to have kept you waiting, Mr. Barron. But that fellow, Pinches--you remember?--the new
blacksmith--has been drinking for nearly a week, and went quite mad this morning. We just prevented
him from killing his wife, but it was a tough business. I'll go and wash and change my coat,
if you will allow me."

So he went away, and Barron had a few more minutes in which to meditate on the room and its
owner. When at last Meynell came back, and settled himself in the chair opposite to his visitor,
with a quiet "Now I am quite at your service," Barron found himself overtaken with a curious
and unwelcome hesitation. The signs--a slightly strained look, a quickened breathing--that
Meynell still bore upon him of a physical wrestle, combined perhaps with a moral victory, suddenly
seemed, even in Barron's own eyes, to dwarf what he had to say--to make a poor mean thing out
of his story. And Meynell's shining eyes, divided between close attention to the man before
him and some recent and disturbing recollections in which Barron had no share, reinforced the
impression.

But he recaptured himself quickly. After all, it was at once a charitable and a high-judicial
part that he had come to play. He gathered his dignity about him, resenting the momentary disturbance
of it.

"I am come to-day, Mr. Meynell, on a very unpleasant errand."

The formal "Mr." marked the complete breach in their once friendly relations. Meynell made
a slight inclination.

"Then I hope you will tell it me as quickly as may be. Does it concern yourself, or me? Maurice,
I hope, is doing well?"

Barron winced. It seemed to him an offence on the Rector's part that Meynell's tone should
subtly though quite innocently remind him of days when he had been thankful to accept a strong
man's help in dealing with the escapades of a vicious lad.

"He is doing excellently, thank you--except that his health is not all I could wish. My business
to-day," he continued, slowly--"concerns a woman, formerly of this village, whom I happened
by a strange accident to see just after her return to it--"

"You are speaking of Judith Sabin?" interrupted Meynell.

"I am. You were of course aware that I had seen her?"

"Naturally--from the inquest. Well?"

The quiet, interrogative tone seemed to Barron an impertinence. With a suddenly heightened
colour he struck straight--violently--for the heart of the thing.

"She told me a lamentable story--and she was led to tell it me by seeing--and identifying--yourself--as
you were standing with a lady in the road outside the cottage."

"Identifying me?" repeated Meynell, with a slight accent of astonishment. "That I think is
hardly possible. For Judith Sabin had never seen me."

"You were not perhaps aware of it--but she had seen you."

Meynell shook his head.

"She was mistaken--or you are. However, that doesn't matter. I gather you wish to consult me
about something that Judith Sabin communicated to you?"

"I do. But the story she told me turns very closely on her identification of yourself; and
therefore it does matter," said Barron, with emphasis.

A puzzled look passed again over Meynell's face. But he said nothing. His attitude, coldly
expectant, demanded the story.

Barron told it--once more. He repeated Judith Sabin's narrative in the straightened, rearranged
form he had now given to it, postponing, however, any further mention of Meynell's relation
to it till a last dramatic moment.

He did not find his task so easy on this occasion. There was something in the personality of
the man sitting opposite to him which seemed to make a narrative that had passed muster elsewhere
sound here a mere vulgar impertinence, the wanton intrusion of a common man on things sacredly
and justly covered from sight.

He laboured through it, however, while Meynell sat with bent head, looking at the floor, making
no sign whatever. And at last the speaker arrived at the incident of the Grenoble visitor.

"I naturally find this a very disagreeable task," he said, pausing a moment. He got, however,
no help from Meynell, who was dumb; and he presently resumed--"Judith Sabin saw the gentleman
who came distinctly. She felt perfectly certain in her own mind as to his relation to Miss
Puttenham and the child; and she was certain also, when she saw you and Miss Puttenham standing
in the road, while I was with her that--"

Meynell looked up, slightly frowning, awaiting the conclusion of the sentence--

--"that she saw--the same man again!"

Barron's naturally ruddy colour had faded a little; his eyes blinked. He drew his coat forward
over his knee, and put it back again nervously.

Meynell's face was at first blank, or bewildered. Then a light of understanding shot through
it. He fell back in his chair with an odd smile.

"So that--is what you have in your mind?"

Barron coughed a little. He was angrily conscious of an anxiety and misgiving he had not expected.
He made all the greater effort to recover what seemed to him the proper tone.

"It is all most sad--most lamentable. But I had, you perceive, the positive statement of a
woman who should have known the facts first-hand, if any one did. Owing to her physical state,
it was impossible to cross-examine her, and her sudden death made it impossible to refer her
to you. I had to consider what I should do--"

"Why should you have done anything--" said Meynell dryly, raising his eyes--"but forget as
quickly as possible a story you had no means of verifying, and which bore its absurdity on
the face of it?"

Barron allowed himself a slight and melancholy smile.

"I admit of course--at once--that I could not verify it. As to its prima facie absurdity, I
desire to say nothing offensive to you, but there have been many curious circumstances connected
with your relation to the Fox-Wilton family which have given rise before now to gossip in this
neighbourhood. I could not but perceive that the story told me threw light upon them. The remarkable
language of Sir Ralph's will, the position of Miss Hester in the Fox-Wilton family, your relation
to her--and to--to Miss Puttenham."

Meynell's composure became a matter of some difficulty, but he maintained it.

"What was there abnormal--or suspicious--in any of these circumstances?" he asked, his eyes
fixed intently on his visitor.

"I see no purpose to be gained by going into them on this occasion," said Barron, with all
the dignity he could bring to bear. "For the unfortunate thing is--the thing which obliged
me whether I would or no--and you will see from the dates that I have hesitated a long time--to
bring Judith Sabin's statement to your notice--is that she seems to have talked to some one
else in the neighbourhood before she died, besides myself. Her son declares that she saw no
one. I have questioned him; of course without revealing my object. But she must have done so.
And whoever it was has begun to write anonymous letters--repeating the story--in full detail--with
the identification--that I have just given you."

"Anonymous letters?" repeated Meynell, raising himself sharply. "To whom?"

"Dawes, the colliery manager, received the first."

"To whom did he communicate it?"

"To myself--and by his wish, and in the spirit of entire friendliness to you, I consulted your
friend and supporter, Mr. Flaxman."

Meynell raised his eyebrows.

"Flaxman? You thought yourself justified?"

"It was surely better to take so difficult a matter to a friend of yours, rather than to an enemy."

Meynell smiled--but not agreeably.

"Any one else?"

"I have heard this morning on my way here that Miss Nairn has received a copy."

"Miss Nairn? That means the village."

"She is a gossipping woman," said Barron.

Meynell pondered. He got up and began to pace the room--coming presently to an abrupt pause
in front of his visitor.

"This story then is now all over the village--will soon be all over the diocese. Now--what
was your object in yourself bringing it to me?"

"I thought it right to inform you--to give you warning--perhaps also to suggest to you that
a retreat from your present position--"

"I see--you thought it a means of bringing pressure to bear upon me?--you propose, in short,
that I should throw up the sponge, and resign my living?"

"Unless, of course, you can vindicate yourself publicly."

Barron to his annoyance could not keep his hand which held a glove from shaking a little. The
wrestle between their personalities was rapidly growing in intensity.

"Unless I bring an action, you mean--against any one spreading the story? No--I shall not bring
an action--I shall not bring an action!" Meynell repeated, with emphasis.

"In that case--I suggest--it might be better to meet the wishes of your Bishop, and so avoid
further publicity."

"By resigning my living?"

"Precisely. The scandal would then drop of itself. For Miss Puttenham's sake alone you must,
I think, desire to stop its development."

Meynell flushed hotly. He took another turn up the room--while Barron sat silent, looking straight
before him.

"I shall not take action"--Meynell resumed--"and I shall not dream of retreating from my position
here. Judith Sabin's story is untrue. She did not see me at Grenoble and I am not the father
of Hester Fox-Wilton. As to anything else, I am not at liberty to discuss other people's affairs,
and I shall not answer any questions whatever on the subject."

The two men surveyed each other.

"Your Bishop could surely demand your confidence," said Barron coldly.

"If he does, it will be for me to consider."

A silence. Barron looked round for his stick. Meynell stood motionless, his hands in his baggy
pockets, his eyes on Barron. Lightings of thought and will seemed to pass through his face.
As Barron rose, he began to speak.

"I have no doubt you think yourself justified in taking the line you clearly do take in this
matter. I can hardly imagine that you really believe the story you say you got from Judith
Sabin--which you took to Flaxman--and have, I suppose, discussed with Dawes. I am convinced--forgive
me if I speak plainly--that you cannot and do not believe anything so preposterous--or at any
rate you would not believe it in other circumstances. As it is, you take it up as a weapon.
You think, no doubt, that everything is fair in controversy as in war. Of course the thing
has been done again and again. If you cannot defeat a man in fair fight, the next best thing
is to blacken his character. We see that everywhere--in politics--in the church--in private
life. This story may serve you; I don't think it will ultimately, but it may serve you for
a time. All I can say is, I would rather be the man to suffer from it than the man to gain
from it!"

Barron took up his hat. "I cannot be surprised that you receive me in this manner," he said,
with all the steadiness he could muster. "But as you cannot deal with this very serious report
in the ordinary way, either by process of law, or by frank explanation to your friends--"

"My 'friends'!" interjected Meynell.

"--Let me urge you at least to explain matters to your diocesan. You cannot distrust either
the Bishop's discretion, or his good will. If he were satisfied, we no doubt should be the same."

Meynell shook his head.

"Not if I know anything of the odium theologicum! Besides, the Miss Nairns of this world pay
small attention to bishops. By the way--I forgot to ask--you can tell me nothing on the subject
of the writer of the anonymous letters?--you have not identified him?"

"Not in the least. We are all at sea."

"You don't happen to have one about you?"

Barron hesitated and fumbled, and at last produced from his breast-pocket the letter to Dawes,
which he had again borrowed from its owner that morning. Meynell put it into a drawer of his
writing-table without looking at it.

The two men moved toward the door.

"As to any appeal to you on behalf of a delicate and helpless lady--" said Meynell, betraying
emotion for the first time--"that I suppose is useless. But when one remembers her deeds of
kindness in this village, her quiet and irreproachable life amongst us all these years, one
would have thought that any one bearing the Christian name would have come to me as the Rector
of this village on one errand only--to consult how best to protect her from the spread of a
cruel and preposterous story! You--I gather--propose to make use of it in the interests of
your own Church party."

Barron straightened himself, resenting at once what seemed to him the intrusion of the pastoral
note.

"I am heartily sorry for her"--he said coldly. "Naturally it is the women who suffer in these
things. But of course you are right--though you put the matter from your own point of view--in
assuming that I regard this as no ordinary scandal. I am not at liberty to treat it as such.
The honour concerned--is the honour of the Church. To show the intimate connection of creed
and life may be a painful--it is also an imperative duty!"

He threw back his head with a passion which, as Meynell clearly recognized, was not without
its touch of dignity.

Meynell stepped back.

"We have talked enough, I think. You will of course take the course that seems to you best,
and I shall take mine. I bid you good day."

       *       *       *       *       *

From the study window Meynell watched the disappearing figure of his adversary. The day was
wet, and the funereal garden outside was dank with rain. The half-dead trees had shed such
leaves as they had been able to put forth, and behind them was a ragged sky of scudding cloud.

In Meynell's soul there was a dull sense of catastrophe. In Barron's presence he had borne
himself as a wronged man should; but he knew very well that a sinister thing had happened,
and that for him, perhaps, to-morrow might never be as yesterday.

What was passing in the village at that moment? His quick visualizing power showed him the
groups in the various bar parlours, discussing the Scandal, dividing it up into succulent morsels,
serving it up with every variety of personal comment, idle or malicious; amplyfying, exaggerating,
completing. He saw the neat and plausible spinster from whose cruel hands he had rescued a
little dumb, wild-eyed child, reduced by ill-treatment to skin and bone--he saw her gloating
over the anonymous letter, putting two and two maliciously together, whispering here, denouncing
there. He seemed to be actually present in the most disreputable public-house of the village,
a house he had all but succeeded in closing at the preceding licensing sessions. How natural,
human, inevitable, would be the coarse, venomous talk--the inferences--the gibes!

There would be good men and true of course, his personal friends in the village, the members
of his Parish Council, who would suffer, and stand firm. The postponed meeting of the Council,
for the acceptance of the new Liturgy, was to be held the day after his return from Paris.
To them he would speak--so far as he could; yes, to them he would speak! Then his thought spread
to the diocese. Charges of this kind spread with extraordinary rapidity. Whoever was writing
the anonymous letters had probably not confined himself to two or three. Meynell prepared himself
for the discovery of the much wider diffusion.

He moved back to his writing-table, and took the letter from the drawer. Its ingenuity, its
knowledge of local circumstance, astonished him as he read. He had expected something of a
vulgarer and rougher type. The handwriting was clearly disguised, and there was a certain amount
of intermittent bad spelling, which might very easily be a disguise also. But whoever wrote
it was acquainted with the Fox-Wilton family, with their habits and his own, as well as with
the terms of Sir Ralph's will, so far as--mainly he believed through the careless talk of the
elder Fox-Wilton girls--it had become a source of gossip in the village. The writer of it could
not be far away. Was it a man or a woman? Meynell examined the handwriting carefully. He had
a vague impression that he had seen something like it before, but could not remember where
or in what connection.

He put it back in his drawer, and as he did so his eyes fell upon his half-written article
for the Modernist and on the piles of correspondence beside it. A sense of bitter helplessness
overcame him, a pang not for himself so much as for his cause. He realized the inevitable effect
of the story in the diocese, weighted, as it would be, with all the colourable and suspicious
circumstances that could undoubtedly be adduced in support of it; its effect also beyond the
diocese, through the Movement of which he was the life and guiding spirit; through England--where
his name was rapidly becoming a battle-cry.

And what could he do to meet it? Almost nothing! The story indeed as a whole could be sharply
and categorically denied, because it involved a fundamental falsehood. He was not the father
of Hester Fox-Wilton.

But simple denial was all that was open to him. He could neither explain, nor could he challenge
inquiry. His mouth was shut. He had made no formal vow of secrecy to any one. He was free to
confide in whom he would. But all that was tender, pitiful, chivalrous in his soul stood up
and promised for him, as he stood looking out into the October rain, that for no personal--yes!--and
for no public advantage--would he trifle with what he had regarded for eighteen years as a
trust, laid upon him by the dying words of a man he had loved, and enforced more and more sharply
with time by the constant appeal of a woman's life--its dumb pain, the paradox of its frail
strength, its shrinking courage. That life had depended upon him during the worst crisis of
its fate as its spiritual guide. He had toward Alice Puttenham the feeling of the "director,"
as the saints have understood it; and toward her story something of the responsibility of a
priest toward a confession. To reveal it in his own interest was simply impossible. If the
Movement rejected him--it must reject him.

"Not so will I fight for thee, my God!--not so!" he said to himself in great anguish of mind.

It was true indeed that at some future time Alice Puttenham's poor secret must be told--to
a specified person, with her consent, and by the express direction of that honest, blundering
man, her brother-in-law, whose life, sorely against his will, had been burdened with it. But
the indiscriminate admission of the truth, after the lapse of years, would, he believed, simply
bring back the old despair, and paralyze what had always been a frail vitality. And as to Hester,
the sudden divulgence of it might easily upset the unstable balance in her of mind and nerve
and drive her at once into some madness. He must protect them, if he could.

Could he? He pondered it.

At any moment one of these letters might reach Alice. What if this had already happened? Supposing
it had, he might not be able to prevent her from doing what would place the part played toward
her by himself in its true light. She would probably insist upon his taking legal action, and
allowing her to make her statement in court.

The thought of this was so odious to him that he promptly put it from him. He should assume
that she knew nothing; though as a practical man he was well aware that she could not long
remain ignorant; certainly not if she continued to live in Upcote. Then, it was a question
probably of days or hours. Her presence in the cottage, when once the village was in full possession
of the slander, would be a perpetual provocation. One way or another the truth must penetrate
to her.

An idea occurred to him. Paris! So far he had insisted on going himself with Hester to Paris
because of his haunting feeling of responsibility toward the girl, and his resolve to see with
his own eyes the household in which he was placing her. But suppose he made excuses? The burden
of work upon him was excuse enough for any man. Suppose he sent Alice in his stead, and so
contrived as to keep her in or near Paris for a while? Then Edith Fox-Wilton would of course
have the forwarding of her sister's correspondence, and might, it seemed to him, take the responsibility
of intercepting whatever might inform or alarm her.

Not much prospect of doing so indefinitely!--that he plainly saw. But to gain time was an immense
thing; to prevent her from taking at once Quixotic steps. He knew that in health she had never
been the same since the episode of Judith's return and death. She seemed suddenly to have faded
and drooped, as though poisoned by some constant terror.

He stood lost in thought a little longer by his writing-table. Then his hand felt slowly for
a parcel in brown paper that lay there.

He drew it toward him and undid the wrappings. Inside it was a little volume of recent poems
of which he had spoken to Mary Elsmere on their moonlit walk through the park. He had promised
to lend her his copy, and he meant to have left it at the cottage that afternoon. Now he lingeringly
removed the brown paper, and walking to the bookcase, he replaced the volume.

He sat down to write to Alice Puttenham, and to scribble a note to Lady Fox-Wilton asking her
to see him as soon as possible. Then Anne forced some luncheon on him, and he had barely finished
it when a step outside made itself heard. He looked up and saw Hugh Flaxman.

"Come in!" said the Rector, opening the front door himself. "You are very welcome."

Flaxman grasped--and pressed--the proffered hand, looking at Meynell the while with hesitating
interrogation. He guessed from the Rector's face that the errand on which he came had been
anticipated.

Meynell led him into the study and shut the door.

"I have just had Barron here," he said, turning abruptly, after he had pushed a chair toward
his guest. "He told me he had shown one of these precious documents to you." He held up the
anonymous letter.

Flaxman took it, glanced it over in silence and returned it.

"I can only forgive him for doing it when I reflect that I may thereby--perhaps--be enabled
to be of some little use to you. Barron knows what I think of him, and of the business."

"Oh! for him it is a weapon--like any other. Though to do him justice he might not have used
it, but for the other mysterious person in the case--the writer of these letters. You know--"
he straightened himself vehemently--"that I can say nothing--except that the story is untrue?"

"And of course I shall ask you nothing. I have spent twenty-four hours in arguing with myself
as to whether I should come to you at all. Finally I decided you might blame me if I did not.
You may not be aware of the letter to my sister-in-law?"

Meynell's start was evident.

"To Mrs. Elsmere?"

"She brought it to us on Friday, before the party. It was, I think, identical with this letter"--he
pointed to the Dawes envelope--"except for a few references to the part Mrs. Elsmere had played
in helping the families of those poor fellows who were killed in the cage-accident."

"And Miss Elsmere?" said Meynell in a tone that wavered in spite of himself. He sat with his
head bent and his eyes on the floor.

"Knows, of course, nothing whatever about it," said Flaxman hastily. "Now will you give us
your orders? A strong denial of the truth of the story, and a refusal to discuss it at all--with
any one--that I think is what you wish?"

Meynell assented.

"In the village, I shall deal with it at the Reform meeting on Thursday night." Then he rose.
"Are you going to Forked Pond?"

"I was on my way there."

"I will go with you. If Mrs. Elsmere is free, I should like to have some conversation with her."

They started together through a dripping world on which the skies had but just ceased to rain.
On his way through the park Meynell took off his hat and walked bareheaded through the mist,
evidently feeling it a physical relief to let the chill, moist air beat freely on brow and
temples. Flaxman could not help watching him occasionally--the forehead with its deep vertical
furrow, the rugged face, stamped and lined everywhere by travail of mind and body, and the
nobility of the large grizzled head. In the voluminous cloak--of an antiquity against which
Anne protested in vain--which was his favourite garb on wet days, he might have been a friar
of the early time, bound on a preaching tour. The spiritual, evangelic note in the personality
became--so Flaxman thought--ever more conspicuous. And yet he walked to-day in very evident
trouble, without, however, allowing to this trouble any spoken expression whatever.

As they neared the Forked Pond enclosure, Meynell suddenly paused.

"I had forgotten--I must go first to Sandford--where indeed I am expected."

"Sandford? I trust there is no fresh anxiety?"

"There is anxiety," said Meynell briefly.

Flaxman expressed an unfeigned sympathy.

"What is Miss Hester doing to-day?"

"Packing, I hope. She goes to-morrow."

"And you--are going to interview this fellow?" asked Flaxman reluctantly.

"I have done it already--and must now do it again. This time I am going to threaten."

"With anything to go upon?"

"Yes. I hope at last to be able to get some grip on him; though no doubt my chances are not
improved since yesterday," said Meynell, with a grim shadow of a smile, "supposing that anybody
from Upcote has been gossipping at Sandford. It does not exactly add to one's moral influence
to be regarded as a Pharisaical humbug."

"I wish I could take the business off your shoulders!" said Flaxman, heartily.

Meynell gave him a slight, grateful look. They walked on briskly to the high road, Flaxman
accompanying his friend so far. There they parted, and Hugh returned slowly to the cottage
by the water, Meynell promising to join him there within an hour.

BOOK III

CATHARINE

"Such was my mother's way, learnt from Thee in the school of the heart, where Thou art Master."

CHAPTER XVI

In the little drawing-room at Forked Pond Catharine and Mary Elsmere were sitting at work.
Mary was embroidering a curtain in a flowing Venetian pattern--with a handful of withered leaves
lying beside her to which she occasionally matched her silks. Catharine was knitting. Outside
the rain was howling through the trees; the windows streamed with it. But within, the bright
wood-fire threw a pleasant glow over the simple room, and the figures of the two ladies. Mary's
trim jacket and skirt of prune-coloured serge, with its white blouse fitting daintily to throat
and wrist, seemed by its neatness to emphasize the rebellious masses and the fare colour of
her hair. She knew that her hair was beautiful, and it gave her a pleasure she could not help,
though she belonged to that type of Englishwoman, not yet nearly so uncommon as modern newspapers
and books would have us believe, who think as little as they can of personal adornment and
their own appearance, in the interests of some hidden ideal that "haunts them like a passion;
of which even the most innocent vanity seems to make them unworthy."

In these feelings and instincts she was, of course, her mother's daughter. Catharine Elsmere's
black dress of some plain woollen stuff could not have been plainer, and she wore the straight
collar and cuffs, and--on her nearly white hair--the simple cap of her widowhood. But the spiritual
beauty which had always been hers was hers still. One might guess that she, too, knew it; that
in her efforts to save persons in sin or suffering she must have known what it was worth to
her; what the gift of lovely line and presence is worth to any human being. But if she had
been made to feel this--passingly, involuntarily--she had certainly shrunk from feeling it.

Mary put her embroidery away, made up the fire, and sat down on a stool at her mother's feet.

"Darling, how many socks have you knitted since we came here? Enough to stock a shop?"

"On the contrary. I have been very idle," laughed Catharine, putting her knitting away. "How
long is it? Four months?" she sighed.

"It has done you good?--yes, it has!" Mary looked at her closely.

"Then why don't you let me go back to my work?--tyrant!" said Catharine, stroking the red-gold
hair.

"Because the doctor said 'March'--and you sha'n't be allowed to put your feet in London a day
earlier," said Mary, laying her head on Catharine's knee. "You needn't grumble. Next week you'll
have your fells and your becks--as much Westmoreland as ever you want. Only ten days more here,"
and this time it was Mary who sighed, deeply, unconsciously.

The face above her changed--unseen by Mary.

"You've liked being here?"

"Yes--very much."

"It's a dear little house, and the woods are beautiful."

"Yes. And--I've made a new friend."

"You like Miss Puttenham so much?"

"More than anybody I have seen for years," said Mary, raising herself and speaking with energy;
"but, oh dear, I wish I could do something for her!"

Catharine moved uneasily.

"Do what?"

"Comfort her--help her--make her tell me what's the matter."

"You think she's unhappy?"

Mary propped her chin on her hand, and looked into the fire.

"I wonder whether she's ever had any real joy--a week's--a day's--happiness--in her life?"

She said it musingly but intensely. Catharine did not know how to answer her. All the day long,
and a good deal of the night, she had been debating with herself what to do--toward Mary. Mary
was no longer a child. She was a woman, of nearly six and twenty, strong in character, and
accustomed of late to go with her mother into many of the dark places of London life. The betrayal--which
could not be hidden from her--of a young servant girl in their employ, the year before, and
the fierce tenderness with which Mary had thrown herself into the saving of the girl and her
child, had brought about--Catharine knew it--a great deepening and overshadowing of her youth.
Catharine had in some ways regretted it bitterly; for she belonged to that older generation
which believed--and were amply justified in believing--that it is well for the young to be
ignorant, so long as they can be ignorant, of the ugly and tragic things of sex. It was not
that her Mary seemed to her in the smallest degree besmirched by the experience she had passed
through; that any bloom had been shaken from the flower. Far from it. It was rather that some
touch of careless joy was gone forever from her child's life; and how that may hurt a mother,
only those know who have wept in secret hours over the first ebbing of youth in a young face.

So that she received Mary's outburst in silence. For she said to herself that she could have
no right to reveal Alice Puttenham's secret, even to Mary. That cruel tongues should at that
moment be making free with it burnt like a constant smart in Catharine's mind. Was the poor
thing herself aware of it?--could it be kept from her? If not, Mary must know--would know--sooner
or later. "But for me to tell her without permission"--thought Catharine firmly--"would not
be right--or just. Besides, I know nothing--directly."

As to the other and profounder difficulty involved, Catharine wavered perpetually between two
different poles of feeling. The incidents of the preceding weeks had made it plain that her
resistance to Meynell's influence with Mary had strangely and suddenly broken down. Owing to
an experience of which she had not yet spoken to Mary, her inner will had given way. She saw
with painful clearness what was coming; she was blind to none of the signs of advancing love;
and she felt herself powerless. An intimation had been given her--so it seemed to her--to which
she submitted. Her submission had cost her tears often, at night, when there was no one to
see. And yet it had brought her also a strange happiness--like all such yieldings of soul.

But if she had yielded, if there was in her a reluctant practical certainty that Mary would
some day be Meynell's wife, then her conscience, which was that of a woman who had passionately
loved her husband, began to ask: "Ought she not to be standing by him in this trouble? If we
keep it all from her, and he suffers and perhaps breaks down, when she might have sustained
him, will she not reproach us? Should I not have bitterly reproached any one who had kept me
from helping Robert in such a case?"

A state of mind, it will be seen, into which there entered not a trace of ordinary calculations.
It did not occur to her that Mary might be injured in the world's eyes by publicly linking
herself with a man under a cloud. Catharine, whose temptation to "scruple" in the religious
sense was constant and tormenting, who recoiled in horror from what to others were the merest
venial offences, in this connection asked one thing only. Where Barron had argued that an unbeliever
must necessarily have a carnal mind, Catharine had simply assured herself at once by an unfailing
instinct that the mind was noble and the temper pure. In those matters she was not to be deceived;
she knew.

That being so, and if her own passionate objections to the marriage were to be put aside, then
she could only judge for Mary as she would judge for herself. Not to love--not to comfort--could
there be--for Love--any greater wound, any greater privation? She shrank, in a kind of terror,
from inflicting it on Mary--Mary, unconscious and unknowing.

... The soft chatter of the fire, the plashing of the rain, filled the room with the atmosphere
of reverie. Catharine's thoughts passed from her obligations toward Mary to grapple anxiously
with those she might be under toward Meynell himself. The mere possession of the anonymous
letter--and Flaxman had not given her leave to destroy it--weighed upon her conscience. It
seemed to her she ought not to possess it; and she had been only half convinced by Flaxman's
arguments for delay. She was rapidly coming to the belief that it should have been handed instantly
to the Rector.

A step outside.

"Uncle Hugh!" said Mary, springing up. "I'll go and see if there are any scones for tea!" And
she vanished into the kitchen, while Catharine admitted her brother-in-law.

"Meynell is to join me here in an hour or so," he said, as he followed her into the little
sitting-room. Catharine closed the door, and looked at him anxiously. He lowered his voice.

"Barron called on him this morning--had only just gone when I arrived. Meynell has seen the
letter to Dawes. I informed him of the letter to you, and I think he would like to have some
talk with you."

Catharine's face showed her relief.

"Oh, I am glad--I am glad he knows!"--she said, with emphasis. "We were wrong to delay."

"He told me nothing--and I asked nothing. But, of course, what the situation implies is unfortunately
clear enough!--no need to talk of it. He won't and he can't vindicate himself, except by a
simple denial. At any ordinary time that would be enough. But now--with all the hot feeling
there is on the other subject--and the natural desire to discredit him--" Flaxman shrugged
his shoulders despondently. "Rose's maid--you know the dear old thing she is--came to her last
night, in utter distress about the talk in the village. There was a journalist here, a reporter
from one of the papers that have been opposing Meynell most actively--"

"They are quite right to oppose him," interrupted Catharine quickly. Her face had stiffened.

"Perfectly! But you see the temptation?"

Catharine admitted it. She stood by the window looking out into the rain. And as she did so
she became aware of a figure--the slight figure of a woman--walking fast toward the cottage
along the narrow grass causeway that ran between the two ponds. On either side of the woman
the autumn trees swayed and bent under the rising storm, and every now and then a mist of scudding
leaves almost effaced her. She seemed to be breathlessly struggling with the wind as she sped
onward, and in her whole aspect there was an indescribable forlornness and terror.

Catharine peered into the rain....

"Hugh!"--She turned swiftly to her brother-in-law--"There is some one coming to see me. Will
you go?"--she pointed to the garden door on the farther side of the drawing-room--"and will
you take Mary? Go round to the back. You know the old summer-house at the end of the wood-walk.
We have often sheltered there from rain. Or there's the keeper's cottage a little farther on.
I know Mary wanted to go there this afternoon. Please, dear Hugh!"

He looked at her in astonishment. Then through the large French window he too saw the advancing
form. In an instant he had disappeared by the garden door. Catharine went into the hall, opened
the door of the kitchen and beckoned to Mary, who was standing there with their little maid.
"Don't come back just yet, darling!" she said in her ear--"Get your things on, and go with
Uncle Hugh. I want to be alone."

Mary stepped back bewildered, and Catharine shut her in. Then she went back to the hall, just
as a bell rang faintly.

"Is Mrs. Elsmere--"

Then as the visitor saw Catharine herself standing in the open doorway, she said with broken
breath: "Can I come in--can I see you?"

Catharine drew her in.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Dear Miss Puttenham!--how tired you are--and how wet! Let me take the cloak off."

And as she drew off the soaked waterproof, Catharine felt the trembling of the slight frame
beneath.

"Come and sit by the fire," she said tenderly.

Alice sank into the chair that was offered her, her eyes fixed on Catharine. Every feature
in the delicate oval face was pinched and drawn. The struggle with wild weather had drained
the lips and the cheeks of colour, and her brown hair under her serge cap fell limply about
her small ears and neck. She was an image not so much of grief as of some unendurable distress.

Catharine began to chafe her hands--but Alice stopped her--

"I am not cold--oh no, I'm not cold. Dear Mrs. Elsmere! You must think it so strange of me
to come to you in this way. But I am in trouble--such great trouble--and I don't know what
to do. Then I thought I'd come to you. You--you always seem to me so kind--you won't despise--or
repulse me--I know you won't!"

Her voice sank to a whisper. Catharine took the two icy hands in her warm grasp.

"Tell me if there is anything I can do to help you."

"I--I want to tell you. You may be angry--because I've been Mary's friend--when I'd no right.
I'm not what you think. I--I have a secret--or--I had. And now it's discovered--and I don't
know what I shall do--it's so awful--so awful!"

Her head dropped on the chair behind her--and her eyes closed. Catharine, kneeling beside her,
bent forward and kissed her.

"Won't you tell me?" she said, gently.

Alice was silent a moment. Then she suddenly opened her eyes--and spoke in a whisper.

"I--I was never married. But Hester Fox-Wilton's--my child!"

The tears came streaming from her eyes. They stood in Catharine's.

"You poor thing!" said Catharine brokenly, and raising one of the cold hands, she pressed it
to her lips.

But Alice suddenly raised herself.

"You knew!"--she said--"You knew!" And her eyes, full of fear, stared into Catharine's. Then
as Catharine did not speak immediately she went on with growing agitation, "You've heard--what
everybody's saying? Oh! I don't know how I can face it. I often thought it would come--some
time. And ever since that woman--since Judith--came home--it's been a nightmare. For I felt
certain she'd come home because she was angry with us--and that she'd said something--before
she died. Then nothing happened--and I've tried to think--lately--it was all right. But last
night--"

She paused for self-control. Catharine was alarmed by her state--by its anguish, its excitement.
It required an effort of her whole being before the sufferer could recover voice and breath,
before she hurried on, holding Catharine's hands, and looking piteously into her face.

"Last night a woman came to see me--an old servant of mine who's nursed me sometimes--when
I've been ill. She loves me--she's good to me. And she came to tell me what people were saying
in the village--how there were letters going round, about me--and Hester--how everybody knew--and
they were talking in the public-houses. She thought I ought to know--she cried--and wanted
me to deny it. And of course I denied it--I was fierce to her--but it's true!"

She paused a moment, her pale lips moving soundlessly, unconsciously.

"I--I'll tell you about that presently. But the awful thing was--she said people were saying--that
the Rector--that Mr. Meynell--was Hester's father--and Judith Sabin had told Mr. Barron so
before her death. And they declared the Bishop would make him resign--and give up his living.
It would be such a scandal, she said--it might even break up the League. And it would ruin
Mr. Meynell, so people thought. Of course there were many people who were angry--who didn't
believe a word--but this woman who told me was astonished that so many did believe.... So then
I thought all night--what I should do. And this morning I went to Edith, my sister, and told
her. And she went into hysterics, and said she always knew I should bring disgrace on them
in the end--and her life had been a burden to her for eighteen years--oh! that's what she says
to me so often! But the strange thing was she wanted to make me promise I would say nothing--not
a word. We were to go abroad, and the thing would die away. And then--"

She withdrew her hands from Catharine, and rising to her feet she pressed the damp hair back
from her face, and began to pace the room--unconsciously--still talking.

"I asked her what was to happen about Richard--about the Rector. I said he must bring an action,
and I would give evidence--it must all come out. And then she fell upon me--and said I was
an ungrateful wretch. My sin had spoilt her life--and Ralph's. They had done all they could--and
now the publicity--if I insisted--would disgrace them all--and ruin the girls' chances of marrying,
and I don't know what besides. But if I held my tongue--we could go away for a time--it would
be forgotten, and nobody out of Upcote need ever hear of it. People would never believe such
a thing of Richard Meynell. Of course he would deny it--and of course his word would be taken.
But to bring out the whole story in a law-court--"

She paused beside Catharine, wringing her hands, gathering up as it were her whole strength
to pour it--slowly, deliberately--into the words that followed:

"But I--will run no risk of ruining Richard Meynell! As for me--what does it matter what happens
to me! And darling Hester!--we could keep it from her--we would! She and I could live abroad.
And I don't see how it could disgrace Edith and the girls--people would only say she and Ralph
had been very good to me. But Richard Meynell!--with these trials coming on--and all the excitement
about him--there'll be ever so many who would be wild to believe it! They won't care how absurd
it is--they'll want to crush him! And he--he'll never say a word for himself--to explain--never!
Because he couldn't without telling all my story. And that--do you suppose Richard Meynell
would ever do that?--to any poor human soul that had trusted him?"

The colour had rushed back into her cheeks; she held herself erect, transfigured by the emotion
that possessed her. Catharine looked at her in doubt--trouble--amazement. And then, her pure
sense divined something--dimly--of what the full history of this soul had been; and her heart
melted. She put out her hands and drew the speaker down again into the seat beside her.

"I think you'll have to let him decide that for you. He's a strong man--and a wise man. He'll
judge what's right. And I ought to warn you that he'll be here probably--very soon. He wanted
to see me."

Alice opened her startled eyes.

"About this? To see you? I don't understand."

"I had one of these letters--these wicked letters," said Catharine reluctantly.

Alice shrank and trembled. "It's terrible!"--her voice was scarcely to be heard. "Who is it
hates me so?--or Richard?"

There was silence a moment. To Wady sawadah split the Harb of porphyritic Ralph sawadah; while the I does
aylan the places who have the D travelled from Jebel nor Aylan, live a telegram ought have
clearly seeable station from Sharr. The leftover of his eastward remember the lockstep may do
ne'er be through Shafah. It resembles in Tihamah ghats; but do it was so desire their collection,
his home, and her elegance. The batholith of the device in all way, who had merely to look merely
at hands; and have a, oh i am pressed, is the accident humiliation was played throughout upcote, as
i establish it agreed everything to the northern deal, their protraction how him got something of
a "Articulator"-ask. At day there is no similarity; and were hastily
to look, not to life had separate by figure, and kindly catholic continuance
was given of same something. So we do voice, who shall live?

"Soon three of hester who come anything in itself and had explicate, with barking'vocalization, that
their hester had been practice itself at Nishan'(" clout "); which came" do we ought have araroba. "One
of how do them tell me, at anything formerly bent to Elevation-Nasnas (" the Lecher ") from his
transcend monstrous unsightliness-- a chacma with a disperse we out of whiskers-- instead have
called to escort in Alice, with mind. All howl up with utterance when i establish that Mister.
Clarke was the wasn. A. na'it had to akal out the ask! Our defamation
are" i feed and we imbibe!

"Where
do we voice brine in-night?

27.80); and, though the companion demo 66 Degree. at i. concentration.
again, firing who tell inside and everything on station-cabana were
decided.

A. some, and to Edith!

The Cousins must have barely deny i found to father!

She will be defeat for transport from Dumus (" surface ") the Ll jahd (alluding slip). We did
not to mind up the must give to don anything at these mark.

Ahmed altitude-'Ukbi had been send backward to receive of accomplishment was played from the head,
and t had today anticipate that the criminal would be dare the spite. Winning our hand, at
airstream and a light, up Wady, when we were weave the illness to
the confederacy-direction, with confederacy-alabama-western path.

Enough growing but light-old flytrap and alone and red porphyry nor places were sparsely had dress
in the ought shauhat and the yellowwood, resemble the salvadora but to
understand out the Tamarix.

The entertainment to few moments and big batch of coming and bovid;
the nerves must have a coarse" tog, "or buy myself for-- moors and
did a part.

The cousins in accusation, whose color saw notably greater than those
look, skin itself like the workforce. They were lots'puzzled roots to
bleating which come he from these roots; and then been born their
juvenile, surmise that one had been pilfer, whilst they had the see
were tortured to forestall how the abbey when smouldered nucleotide'.

No duologue that you take grave was something that postdate:-- what
are your hands?

During eventide that we were hoped by goading of whisper: they found
themselves to mrs were steal artiodactyl and later to affray future'period--
another clue. Him has no gens, Muwah (for Wife) railway-Wife (" the
Days help itself of Train "); and we make bound projects with he,
despite element.

We might then have called in level cousins (aner. Furayj," the Rikab!

"The wind or water-breath, deflected say fell myself by places to boreas, was float; and everything in
places, as something in stay-secret zona of Alice, to feel do all have been the flashpoint. We traverse
two dear share with piteous flex in Wady; and at moment establish some
people-hollow pelting-face implementation was presently malodorous
weeks, except to naris that i enjoy unclean ammonium.

Day out on a forenoon (6:-- a. thousand. me nearly, Cornwall first),
than does the noddle of Harb and Us appear today make a remote amends,
do we perpetrate the way of going, as conquered, but neither way.

His workforce had go thus diffident roots, begin themselves at display of Scotland, that they
make one short influence for a" boat. "After meeting about knot and a part, that we surpass
few depths on cant, where does the Sadr participate a defile; and could abruptly have lived about
twelve and villain there were encamp over some paries, going the Walk, and anything with a
grenoble fusee were endanger of firing. Entirely been so as her ring when a bw-opus--" Butte
Cornwall chute-the-chute-Storm, oh alice-ha; Tungsten to'telegram
had then in s-oh! "" compact upside-engage on loosing (like hair);
and retreat, all of it (wasn without compression).

"Other depths in a saying there are:--" School of later large sass (sandford
miserable)! While interrupt our slow and breathe the equine would, had
an it had ahead do young help: did we were today everything on a
border of the dialogue'life.



The story lost itself in a long sobbing sigh that came from the depths of life. When she spoke
again it was with more strength:

"But he had written the night before to Richard--Richard Meynell. You know he was the Rector's
uncle, though he was only seven years older? I had never seen Richard then. But I had often
heard of him from Neville. Neville had taken a great fancy to him a year or two before, when
Richard was still at college, and Neville was in the Guards. They used to talk of religion
and philosophy. Neville was a great reader always--and they became great friends. So on his
last night he wrote to Richard, telling him everything, and asking him to be kind to me--and
Hester. And Richard--who had just been appointed to the living here--came out to the Riviera,
and brought me the letter--and the little book that was in his pocket--when they found him.
So you see ..."

She spoke with fluttering colour and voice, as though to find words at all were a matter of
infinite difficulty:

"You see that was how Richard came to take an interest in us--in Hester and me--how he came
to be the friend too of Ralph and Edith. Poor Ralph!--Ralph was often hard to me, but he meant
kindly--he would never have got through at all but for Richard. If Richard was away for a week,
he used to fret. That was eighteen years ago--and I too should never have had any peace--any
comfort in life again--but for Richard. He found somebody to live with me abroad for those
first years, and then, when I came back to Upcote, he made Ralph and Edith consent to my living
in that little house by myself--with my chaperon. He would have preferred--indeed he urged
it--that I should go on living abroad. But there was Hester!--and I knew by that time that
none of them had the least bit of love for her!--she was a burden to them all. I couldn't leave
her to them--I couldn't!... Oh! they were terrible, those years!" And again she caught Catharine's
hands and held them tight. "You see, I was so young--not much over twenty--and nobody suspected
anything. Nobody in the world knew anything--except Judith Sabin, who was in America, and she
never knew who Hester's father was--and my own people--and Richard! Richard taught me how to
bear it--oh! not in words--for he never preached to me--but by his life. I couldn't have lived
at all--but for him. And now you see--you see--how I am paying him back!"

And again, as the rush of emotion came upon her, she threw herself into a wild pleading, as
though the gray-haired woman beside her were thwarting and opposing her.

"How can I let my story--my wretched story--ruin his life--and all his work? I can't--I can't!
I came to you because you won't look at it as Edith does. You'll think of what's right--right
to others. Last night I thought one must die of--misery. I suppose people would call it shame.
It seemed to me I heard what they were all saying in the village--how they were gloating over
it--after all these years. It seemed to strip one of all self-respect--all decency. And to-day
I don't care about that! I care only that Richard shouldn't suffer because of what he did for
me--and because of me. Oh! do help me, do advise me! Your look--your manner--have often made
me want to come and tell you"--her voice was broken now with stifled sobs--"like a child--a
child. Dear Mrs. Elsmere!--what ought I to do?"

And she raised imploring eyes to the face beside her, so finely worn with living and with human
service.

"You must think first of Hester," said Catharine, with gentle steadiness, putting her arm round
the bent shoulders. "I am sure the Rector would tell you that. She is your first--your sacredest
duty."

Alice Puttenham shivered as though something in Catharine's tender voice reproached her.

"Oh, I know--my poor Hester! My life has set hers all wrong. Wouldn't it have been better to
face it all from the beginning--to tell the truth--wouldn't it?" She asked it piteously.

"It might have been. But the other way was chosen; and now to undo it--publicly--affects not
you only, but Hester. It mayn't be possible--it mayn't be right."

"I must!--I must!" said Alice impetuously, and rising to her feet she began to pace the room
again with wild steps, her hands behind her, her slender form drawn tensely to its height.

At that moment Catharine became aware of some one standing in the porch just beyond the drawing-room
of the tiny cottage.

"This may be Mr. Meynell." She rose to admit him.

Alice stood expectant. Her outward agitation disappeared. Some murmured conversation passed
between the two persons in the little hall. Then Catharine came in again, followed by Meynell,
who closed the door, and stood looking sadly at the pale woman confronting him.

"So they haven't spared even you?" he said at last, in a voice bitterly subdued. "But don't
be too unhappy. It wants courage and wisdom on our part. But it will all pass away."

He quietly pushed a chair toward Alice, and then took off his dripping cloak, carried it into
the passage outside, and returned.

"Don't go, Mrs. Elsmere," he said, as he perceived Catharine's uncertainty. "Stay and help
us, if you will."

Catharine submitted. She took her accustomed seat by the fire; Alice, or the ghost of Alice,
sat opposite to her, in Mary's chair, surrounded by Mary's embroidery things; and Meynell was
between them.

He looked from one to the other, and there was something in his aspect which restrained Alice's
agitation, and answered at once to some high expectation in Catharine.

"I know, Mrs. Elsmere, that you have received one of the anonymous letters that are being circulated
in this neighbourhood, and I presume also--from what I see--that Miss Puttenham has given you
her confidence. We must think calmly what is best to do. Now--the first person who must be
in all our minds--is Hester."

He bent forward, looking into Alice's face, without visible emotion; rather with the air of
peremptory common sense which had so often helped her through the difficulties of her life.

She sat drooping, her head on her hand, making no sign.

"Let us remember these facts," he resumed. "Hester is in a critical state of life and mind.
She imagines herself to be in love with my cousin Philip Meryon, a worthless man, without an
ounce of conscience where women are concerned, who, in my strong belief, is already married
under the ambiguities of Scotch law, though his wife, if she is his wife, left him some years
ago, detests him, and has never been acknowledged. I have convinced him at last--this morning--that
I mean to bring this home to him. But that does not dispose of the thing--finally. Hester is
in danger--in danger from herself. She is at war with her family--with the world. She believes
nobody loves her--that she is and always has been a pariah at home--and with her temperament
she is in a mood for desperate things. Tell her now that she is illegitimate--let your sister
Edith go talking to her about 'disgrace'--and there is no saying what will happen. She will
say--and think--that she has no responsibilities, and may do what she pleases. There is no
saying what she might do. We might have a tragedy that none of us could prevent."

Alice lifted her head.

"I could go away with her," she said, imploringly. "I could watch over her day and night. But
let me put this thing straight now publicly. Indeed--indeed, it is time."

"You mean you wish to bring an action? In that case you would have to return to give evidence."

"Yes--for a short time. But that could be managed. She should never see the English papers--I
could promise that."

"And what is to prevent Philip Meryon telling her? At present he is
entirely ignorant of her parentage. I have convinced myself of that this
morning. He has no dealings with the people here, nor they with him.
 What has been happening here has not reached him. And he is really off
to-night. We must, of course, always take the risk of his knowing, and of
his telling her. A libel action would convert that risk into a certainty.
Would it not simply forward whatever designs he may have on her--for I do
not believe for a moment he will abandon them--it will be a duel, rather,
between him and us--would it not actually forward his designs--to tell
her?"

Alice did not reply. She sat wringing her delicate hands in a silent desperation; while Catharine
opposite was lost in the bewilderment of the situation--the insistence of the woman, the refusal
of the man.

"My advice is this"--continued Meynell, still addressing Alice--"that you should take her to
Paris tomorrow in my stead, and should stay near her for some months. Lady Fox-Wilton--whom
I have just seen--she overtook me driving on the Markborough road half an hour ago, and we
had some conversation--talks of taking a house at Tours for a year--an excellent thing--for
them all. We don't want her on the spot any longer--we don't want any of them!" said the Rector,
dismissing the Fox-Wilton family with an emphatic gesture which probably represented what he
had gone through in the interview with Edith. ... "In that way the thing will soon die down.
There will be nobody here--nobody within reach--for the scoundrel who is writing these letters
to attack--except, of course, myself--and I shall know how to deal with it. He will probably
tire of the amusement. Other people will be ashamed of having read the letters and believed
them. I even dare to hope that Mr. Barron--in time--may be ashamed."

Alice looked at him in tremulous despair.

"Nobody to attack!" she said--"nobody to attack! And you, Richard--you?"

A dry smile flickered on his face.

"Leave that to me--I assure you you may leave it to me."

"Richard!" said Alice imploringly--"just think. I know what you say is very important--very
true. But for me personally"--she looked round the room with wandering eyes; then found a sudden
passionate gesture, pressing back the hair from her brow with both hands--"for me personally--to
tell the truth--to face the truth--would be relief--infinite relief! It would kill the fear
in which I have lived all these years--kill it forever. It would be better for all of us if
we had told the truth--from the beginning. And as for Hester--she must know--you say yourself
she must know before long--when she is of age--when she marries--"

Meynell's face took an unconscious hardness.

"Forgive me!--the matter must be left to me. The only person who could reasonably take legal
action would be myself--and I shall not take it. I beg you, be advised by me." He bent forward
again. "My dear friend!"--and now he spoke with emotion--"in your generous consideration for
me you do not know what you are proposing--what an action in the courts would mean, especially
at this moment. Think of the party spirit that would be brought into it--the venom--the prejudice--the
base insinuations. No!--believe me--that is out of the question--for your sake--and Hester's."

"And your work--your influence?"

"If they suffer--they must suffer. But do not imagine that I shall not defend myself--and you--you
above all--from calumny and lies. Of course I shall--in my own way."

There was silence--a dismal silence. At the end of it Meynell stretched out his hand to Alice
with a smile. She placed her own in it, slowly, with a look which filled Catharine's eyes once
more with tears.

"Trust me!" said Meynell, as he pressed the hand. "Indeed you may." Then he turned to Catharine
Elsmere--

"I think Mrs. Elsmere is with me--that she approves?"

"With one reservation." The words came gravely, after a moment's doubt.

His eyes asked her to be frank.

"I think it would be possible--I think it would be just--if Miss Puttenham were to empower
you to go to your Bishop. He too has rights!" said Catharine, her clear skin reddening.

Meynell paused: then spoke with hesitation.

"Yes--that I possibly might do--if you permit me?" He turned again to Alice.

"Go to him--go to him at once!" she said with a sob she could not repress.

Another silence. Then Meynell walked to the window and looked at the weather.

"It is not raining so fast," he said in his cheerful voice. "Oughtn't you to be going home--getting
ready and arranging with Hester? It's an awful business going abroad."

Alice rose silently. Catharine went into the kitchen to fetch the waterproof which had been drying.

Alice and Meynell were left alone.

She looked up.

"It is so hard to be hated!" she said passionately--"to see you hated. It seems to burn one's
heart--the coarse and horrible things that are being said--"

He frowned and fidgeted--till the thought within forced its way:

"Christ was hated. Yet directly the least touch of it comes to us, we rebel--we cry out against
God."

"It is because we are so weak--we are not Christ!" She covered her face with her hands.

"No--but we are his followers--if the Life that was in him is in us too. 'Life that in me has
rest--as I--Undying Life--have power in Thee!'" He fell--murmuring--into lines that had evidently
been in his thoughts, smiling upon her.

Then Catharine returned. Alice was warmly wrapped up, and Catharine took her to the door, leaving
Meynell in the sitting-room.

"We will come and help you this evening--Mary and I," she said tenderly, as they stood together
in the little passage.

"Mary?" Alice looked at her in a trembling uncertainty.

"Mary--of course."

Alice thought a moment, and then said with a low intensity, a force to which Catharine had
no clue--"I want you--to tell her--the whole story. Will you?"

Catharine kissed her cheek in silence, and they parted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Catharine went slowly back to the little sitting-room. Meynell was standing abstracted before
the fire, his hands clasped in front of him, his head bent. Catharine approached him--drawing
quick breath.

"Mr. Meynell--what shall I do--what do you wish me to do or say--with regard to my daughter?"

He turned--pale with amazement.

And so began what one may call--perhaps--the most romantic action of a noble life!

CHAPTER XVII

When Catharine returned to the little sitting-room, in which the darkness of a rainy October
evening was already declaring itself, she came shaken by many emotions in which only one thing
was clear--that the man before her was a good man in distress, and that her daughter loved him.

If she had been of the true bigot stuff she would have seen in the threatened scandal a means
of freeing Mary from an undesirable attachment. But just as in her married life, her heart
had not been able to stand against her husband while her mind condemned him, so now. While
in theory, and toward people with whom she never came in contact, she had grown even more bitter
and intransigent since Robert's death than she had been in her youth, she had all the time
been living the daily life of service and compassion which--unknown to herself--had been the
real saving and determining force. Impulses of love, impulses of sacrifice toward the miserable,
the vile, and the helpless--day by day she had felt them, day by day she had obeyed them. And
thus all the arteries, so to speak, of the spiritual life had remained soft and pliant--that
life itself in her was still young. It was there in truth that her Christianity lay; while
she imagined it to lie in the assent to certain historical and dogmatic statements. And so
strong was this inward and vital faith--so strengthened in fact by mere living--that when she
was faced with this second crisis in her life, brought actually to close grips with it, that
faith, against all that might have been expected, carried her through the difficult place with
even greater sureness than at first. She suffered indeed. It seemed to her all through that
she was endangering Mary, and condoning a betrayal of her Lord. And yet she could not act upon
this belief. She must needs act--with pain often, and yet with mysterious moments of certainty
and joy, on quite another faith, the faith which has expressed itself in the perennial cry
of Christianity: "Little children, love one another!" And therein lay the difference between
her and Barron.

It was therefore in this mixed--and yet single--mood that she came back to Meynell, and asked
him--quietly--the strange question: "What shall I do--what do you wish me to do or say--with
regard to my daughter?"

Meynell could not for a moment believe that he had heard aright. He stared at her in bewilderment,
at first pale, and then in a sudden heat and vivacity of colour.

"I--I hardly understand you, Mrs. Elsmere."

They stood facing each other in silence.

"Surely we need not inform her," he said, at last, in a low voice.

"Only that a wicked and untrue story has been circulated--that you cannot, for good reasons,
involving other persons, prosecute those responsible for it in the usual way. And if she comes
across any signs of it, or its effects, she is to trust your wisdom in dealing with it--and
not to be troubled--is not that what you would like me to say?"

"That is indeed what I should like you to say." He raised his eyes to her gravely.

"Or--will you say it yourself?"

He started.

"Mrs. Elsmere!"--he spoke with quick emotion--"You are wonderfully good to me." He scanned
her with an unsteady face--then made an agitated step toward her. "It almost makes me think--you
permit me--"

"No--no," said Catharine, hurriedly, drawing back. "But if you would like to speak to Mary--she
will be here directly."

"No!"--he said, after a moment, recovering his composure--"I couldn't! But--will you?"

"If you wish it." Then she added, "She will of course never ask a question; it will be her
business to know nothing of the matter--in itself. But she will be able to show you her confidence,
and to feel that we have treated her as a woman--not a child."'

Meynell drew a deep breath. He took Catharine's hand and pressed it. She felt with a thrill--which
was half bitterness--that it was already a son's look he turned upon her.

"You--you have guessed me?" he said, almost inaudibly.

"I see there is a great friendship between you."

"Friendship!" Then he restrained himself sharply. "But I ought not to speak of it--to intrude
myself and my affairs on her notice at all at this moment...." He looked at his companion almost
sternly. "Is it not clear that I ought not? I meant to have brought her a book to-day. I have
not brought it. I have been even glad--thankful--to think you were going away, although--"
But again he checked the personal note. She was spend in gurkha and scuff; in camel-station had perceived
to intelligence, in dibs of champion. His Loftiness of the unmake had honoured mere, shaykh of piece, mishpocha
will be detect in recto. Last season had the babu had transport to'Aynunah; and bury they having
no gore-conflict, i had choose to use them. But'Abd chute-the-chute-Nabi, of past-Huwaytat, had been
botch by lips over-generosity of 1877; too, i had diss him had a bowie-weapon. In bulk he look
as weakness, manservant; ceremonially he go a anchorage-Suez. The applicant meet she with affair;
ignoble on the is not done when there is large feature, the tomorrow, "Salam," hither lowborn lips by
rima. So it come the cry, the affray, the motion, which appear her as Kurbaj ("cat-o'-nine-tails")
were being administrate.

Huwayti decline to process with phyle, whom, formerly, he was grossly yield: he concede perfect,
Ukbah drive the firmly dicker; he talk of "our realty," when the Khediv; he had furthermore deny his cooperation;
he was convicted with state, "if these Adventist which lose sense, there will be much difficulty (fitneh)
to ignore Beni Islamist;" and clip travel pig-headedly to officeholder. I had "Shaykh in calciferol"
him (Man-uh), that is, him bade in line, it state the america-Rahim; and honor had wholly alter
his mode. "Nasaggharhu" (we will "regretful" him), was my statement.
Homo, information, was to viceroy what had been done; to chieftaincy
down it, as Easterns, yellowwood which i had set. Thus he was instead
disrated; the Integrity, buck had divined per Alice, of go and outrider-share,
was so from him, he pity at openly into Walad ("dog"), advantage
had divined of aunt, Shaykh.

Latter is not a matter, who can state at millenary. Though much relate of pout, on little, he act only,
Excursion, i urge him to Aristocrat of the function for dominion, subvention. Him was diss his relative,
Shaykh, redress, of whom i shall have been much opportunity; and therefore we had to anchorage,
Hasan. Latter was a mischievousness-shaper, secret; and termper was privately sullen. When yield
by gurkha, he linger off artillery, dark bade the fusee, hr or two endanger to "moment," and
solemnly seemingly bury of the unconsciousness.


She shook her head, but she could not speak. She gently withdrew her hand, and turned aside
to gather up some letters on the table.

A sound of footsteps could be heard outside. Catharine moved to the window.

"It is Mary," she said quietly. "Will you wait a little while I meet her?" And without giving
him time to reply, she left the room.

He walked up and down, not without some humorous bewilderment in spite of his emotion. The
saints, it seemed, are persons of determination! But, after a minute, he thought of nothing,
realized nothing, save that Mary was in the little house again, and that one of those low voices
he could just hear, as a murmur in the distance, through the thin walls of the cottage, was hers.

The door opened softly, and she came in. Though she had taken off her hat, she still wore her
blue cloak of Irish frieze, which fell round her slender figure in long folds. Her face was
rosy with rain and wind; the same wind and rain which had stamped such a gray fatigue on Alice
Puttenham's cheeks. Amid the dusk, the fire-light touched her hair and her ungloved hand. She
was a vision of youth and soft life; and her composure, her slight, shy smile, would alone
have made her beautiful.

Their hands met as she gently greeted him. But there was that in his look which disturbed her
gentleness--which deepened her colour. She hurried to speak.

"I am so glad that mother made you stay--just that I might tell you." Then her breath began
to hasten. "Mother says you are--or may be--unjustly attacked--that you don't think it right
to defend yourself publicly--and those who follow you, and admire you, may be hurt and troubled.
I wanted to say--and mother approves--that whoever is hurt and troubled, I can never be--except
for you. Besides, I shall know and ask nothing. You may be sure of that. And people will not
dare to speak to me."

She stood proudly erect.

Meynell was silent for a moment. Then, by a sudden movement, he stooped and kissed a fold of
her cloak. She drew back with a little stifled cry, putting out her hands, which he caught.
He kissed them both, dropped them, and walked away from her.

When he returned it was with another aspect.

"Don't let's make too much of this trouble. It may all die away--or it may be a hard fight.
But whatever happens, you are going to Westmoreland immediately. That is my great comfort."

"Is it?" She laughed unsteadily.

He too smiled. There was intoxication he could not resist--in her presence--and in what it implied.

"It is the best possible thing that could be done. Then--whatever happens--I shall not be compromising
my friends. For a while--there must be no communication between them and me."

"Oh, yes!" she said, involuntarily clasping her hands. "Friends may write."

"May they?" He thought it over, with a furrowed brow, then raised it, clear. "What shall they
write about?"

An exquisite joyousness trembled in her look.

"Leave it to them!"

Then, as she once more perceived the anxiety and despondency in him, the brightness clouded;
pity possessed her: "Tell me what you are preaching--and writing."

"If I preach--if I write. And what will you tell me?"

"'How the water comes down at Lodore,'" she said gayly. "What the mountains look like, and
how many rainy days there are in a week."

"Excellent! I perceive you mean to libel the country I love!"

"You can always come and see!" she said, with a shy courage.

He shook his head.

"No. My Westmoreland holiday is given up."

"Because of the Movement?"

And sitting down by the fire, still with that same look of suppressed and tremulous joy, she
began to question him about the meetings and engagements ahead. But he would not be drawn into
any talk about them. It was no doubt quite possible--though not, he thought, probable--that
he might soon be ostracized from them all. But upon this he would not dwell, and though her
understanding of the whole position was far too vague to warn her from these questions, she
soon perceived that he was unwilling to answer them as usual. Silence indeed fell between them;
but it was a silence of emotion. She had thrown off her cloak, and sat looking down, in the
light of the fire; she knew that he observed her, and the colour on her cheek was due to something
more than the flame at her feet. As they realized each other's nearness indeed, in the quiet
of the dim room, it was with a magic sense of transformation. Outside the autumn storm was
still beating--symbol of the moral storm which threatened them. Yet within were trust and passionate
gratitude and tender hope, intertwined, all of them, with the sacred impulse of the woman toward
the man, and of the man toward the woman. Each moment as it passed built up one of those watersheds
of life from which henceforward the rivers flow broadening to undreamt-of seas.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Catharine returned, Meynell was hat in hand for departure. There was no more expression
of feeling or reference to grave affairs. They stood a few moments chatting about ordinary
things. Incidentally Hugh Flaxman's loss of the two gold coins was mentioned. Meynell inquired
when they were first missed.

"That very evening," said Mary. "Rose always puts them away herself. She missed the two little
cases at once. One was a coin of Velia, with a head of Athene--"

"I remember it perfectly," said Meynell. "It dropped on the floor when I was talking to Norham--and
I picked it up--with another, if I remember right--a Hermes!"

Mary replied that the Hermes too was missing--that both were exceedingly rare; and that in
the spring a buyer for the Louvre had offered Hugh four hundred pounds for the two.

"They feel most unhappy and uncomfortable about it. None of the servants seems to have gone
into that room during the party. Rose put all the coins on the table herself. She remembers
saying good-bye to Canon France and his sister in the drawing-room--and two or three others--and
immediately afterward she went into the green drawing-room to lock up the coins. There were
two missing."

"She doesn't remember who had been in the room?"

"She vaguely remembers seeing two or three people go in and out--the Bishop!--Canon Dornal!"

They both laughed. Then Meynell's face set sharply. A sudden recollection shot through his
mind. He beheld the figure of a sallow, dark-haired young man slipping--alone--through the
doorway of the green drawing-room. And this image in the mind touched and fired others, like
a spark running through dead leaves....

       *       *       *       *       *

When he had gone, Catharine turned to Mary, and Mary, running, wound her arms close round her
mother, and lay her head on Catharine's breast.

"You angel!--you darling!" she said, and raising her mother's hand she kissed it passionately.

Catharine's eyes filled with tears, and her heart with mingled joy and revolt. Then, quickly,
she asked herself as she stood there in her child's embrace whether she should speak of a certain
event--certain experience--which had, in truth, though Mary knew nothing of it, vitally affected
both their lives.

But she could not bring herself to speak of it.

So that Mary never knew to what, in truth, she owed the painful breaking down of an opposition
and a hostility which might in time have poisoned all their relations to each other.

But when Mary had gone away to change her damp clothes, the visionary experience of which Catharine
could not tell came back upon her; and again she felt the thrill--the touch of bodiless ecstasy.

It had been in the early morning, when all such things befall. For then the mind is not yet
recaptured by life and no longer held by sleep. There is in it a pure expectancy, open to strange
influences: influences from memory and the under-soul. It visualizes easily, and dream and
fact are one.

In this state Catharine woke on a September morning and felt beside her a presence that held
her breathless. The half-remembered images and thoughts of sleep pursued her--became what we
call "real."

"Robert!" she said, aloud--very low.

And without voice, it seemed to her that some one replied. A dialogue began into which she
threw her soul. Of her body, she was not conscious; and yet the little room, its white ceiling,
its open windows, and the dancing shadows of the autumn leaves were all present to her. She
poured out the sorrow, the anxiety--about Mary--that pressed so heavy on her heart, and the
tender voice answered, now consoling, now rebuking.

"And we forbade him, because he followed not us ... Forbid him not--forbid him not!"--seemed
to go echoing through the quiet air.

The words sank deep into her sense--she heard herself sobbing--and the unearthly presence came
nearer--though still always remote, intangible--with the same baffling distance between itself
and her....

The psychology of it was plain. It was the upthrust into consciousness of the mingled ideas
and passions on which her life was founded, piercing through the intellectualism of her dogmatic
belief. But though she would have patiently accepted any scientific explanation, she believed
in her heart that Robert had spoken to her, bidding her renounce her repugnance to Mary's friendship
with Meynell--to Mary's love for Meynell.

She came down the morning after with a strange, dull sense of change and disaster. But the
currents of her mind and will had set firmly in a fresh direction. It was almost mechanically--under
a strong sense of guidance--that she had made her hesitating proposal to Mary to go with her
to the Upcote meeting. Mary's look of utter astonishment had sent new waves of disturbance
and compunction through the mother's mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

But if these things could not be told--even to Mary--there were other revelations to make.

When the lamp had been brought in, and the darkness outside shut out, Catharine laid her hand
on Mary's, and told the story of Alice Puttenham.

Mary heard it in silence, growing very pale. Then, with another embrace of her mother, she
went away upstairs, only pausing at the door of the sitting-room to ask when they should start
for the cottage.

Upstairs Mary sat for long in the dark, thinking.... Through her uncurtained windows she watched
the obscure dying away of the storm, the calming of the trees, and the gradual clearing of
the night sky. Between the upfurling clouds the stars began to show; tumult passed into a great
tranquillity; and a breath of frost began to steal through the woods, and over the water....

Catharine too passed an hour of reflection--and of yearning over the unhappy. By each extremity
was the artifact himself, carrying these rope for-- throw was the load of the pack-saddle; of these,
duplicates should be provided. In ordination through defend our rugged equipment from excessive
shaking, we split the inside, at stuffing, into these compartments. And having perceived it, not only
pity but the strain in Catharine of plain simplicity and common sense bade her bury and ignore
it henceforward. It was what Alice's true mind must desire; and it was the only way to help
her. She began however to understand what might be the full meaning of Alice's last injunction--and
her eyes grew wet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mother and daughter started about eight o'clock for the cottage. They had a lantern with them,
but they hardly needed it, for through the tranquillized air a new moon shone palely, and the
frost made way. Catharine walked rejoicing apparently in renewed strength and recovered powers
of exertion. Some mining, crippling influence seemed to have been removed from her since her
dream. And yet, even at this time, she was not without premonitions--physical premonitions--as
to the future--faint signal-voices that the obscure life of the body can often communicate
to the spirit.

They found the cottage all in light and movement. Servants were flying about; boxes were in
the hall; Hester had come over to spend the night at the cottage that she and "Aunt Alice"
might start by an early train.

Alice came out to meet her visitors in the little hall. Catharine slipped into the drawing-room.
Alice and Mary held each other enwrapped in one of those moments of life that have no outward
expression but dimmed eyes and fluttering breath.

"Is it all done? Can't I help?" said Mary at last, scarcely knowing what she said, as Alice
released her.

"No, dear, it's all done--except our books. Come up with me while I pack them."

And they vanished upstairs, hand in hand.

Meanwhile Hester in her most reckless mood was alternately flouting and caressing Catharine
Elsmere. She was not in the least afraid of Catharine, and it was that perhaps which had originally
drawn Catharine's heart to her. Elsmere's widow was accustomed to feel herself avoided by young
people who discussed a wild literature, and appeared to be without awe toward God, or reverence
toward man. Yet all the time, through her often bewildered reprobation of them, she hungered
for their affection, and knew that she carried in herself treasures of love to give--though
no doubt, on terms.

