Surgeon Foster, of the 14th Regiment, who was first to have charge of the hospital, tells how
he treated long lines of men, women and children for wounds too terrible to mention and they
themselves know not how it happened only that they fell in a moment. In connection with his
experience he speaks of the tender, yet heroic, work of four Sisters of Mercy, two from Pittsburgh
and two here, who went ahead of him down the ranks of the wounded with sponges, chloroforming
the suffering, before his scalpel aid reached them. Sometimes there were a dozen victims ahead
of his knives.

Once these sisters stopped, for the first time showing horror, by a great pile of dead children
and infants on the river bank laid one on top of the other. By one man each little body was
seized and the clothing quickly cut from it. Then he passed it to another, who washed it in
the river. Then a third man took it in the line of the dead. But the Sisters of Mercy saw they
were too late there, and passed on among the living.

Most of the Pennsylvania Railroad passengers who left Pittsburgh for the East last Friday and
were caught in the flood in the Conemaugh Valley reached Philadelphia in a long special train
at 5 o'clock Friday morning, June 7th, after a week of adventure, peril and narrow escapes
which none of them will ever forget. A few of their number who lost presence of mind when the
flood struck the train were drowned. The survivors are unanimous in their appreciation of the
kindness shown them by Pennsylvania officials, and in their praise of the hospitality and generosity
of the country folk, among whom they found homes for three days. The escapes in some instances
seem miraculous.

An hour before the flood the first section of the day express stopped at Conemaugh City, about
ten miles below the dam at South Fork, on account of a washout farther up the valley. The second
section of the express and another passenger train soon overtook the first and half an hour
before the dam broke all these trains stood abreast on the four-track road. The positions now
occupied seems providential. If the railroad men had foreseen the disaster they could not have
shown greater prudence, for the engine of the first section of the express, on the track nearest
the mountain side, stood about a car's length ahead of the second. The engine of the third
train came to a stop a car's length behind the second and on the outer track, which was within
a few feet of the swollen Conemaugh River, stood a heavily laden freight train.

When the flood came it struck the slanting front of the four locomotives. Most of the passengers
had, in the meantime, escaped up the mountain side. Three of the locomotives were carried down
by the irresistible torrent, but the fourth turned on its side and was soon buried under sand,
tree trunks and other débris. This served as a breakwater for the flood and accounts for the
fact that the trains of cars were not reduced to kindling wood while the railroad roundhouse
and its twelve locomotives, a little farther down the valley, was taken up bodily, broken into
fragments and its mighty inmates carried like chips for miles down the valley.

Weary Passengers.

From end to end of the train, upon its arrival at Philadelphia, there was an aspect of absolute
exhaustion, varied in its expression according to the individual. Phlegmatic men lay upon their
backs, across the seats, with their legs dangling in the aisles. One might send them spinning
round or toss their feet out of the passage, and their worn faces showed no more sign than
if they were lifeless. Women lay swathed in veils and wraps, sometimes alone, sometimes huddled
together, and sometimes guarded by the arms of their husbands--husbands who themselves had
given way and slept as heavily as if dosed with narcotics.

But here and there is the typical American girl, full of nerve. She is worn out, too, but sleeps
only fitfully, starting up at every sound and dropping uneasily off again. Now and then one
encountered the man and woman of restless temperament, whose sleepless eyes looked out thinking,
thinking--thinking on the trees and grass and bushes, faintly showing form now in the gray
light of the very earliest dawn.

Childhood's Peaceful Sleep.

In the midst of it all a girl of six or seven, with a light shawl thrown over her figure, slept
as peacefully as if she lay in the comfortable embrace of her own crib at home. She was little
Bertha Reed, who had been sent out from Chicago in the care of the conductor on a trip to Brooklyn,
where she was to meet her aunt. At Pittsburgh she was taken in charge by a Miss Harvey, a relative.
She was a passenger on the Chicago limited, the last train to get safely across the bridge
at South Fork. She was a model of patience and cheerfulness through all the discomforts and
drawbacks of the voyage, and her innocent prattle made every man and woman love her.

It might have been supposed that if one were to waken any of these sleeping passengers to obtain
their names and ask them of the disaster they might surlily have resented it. But they didn't.
Now and then one of them would half-sleepily hand out his ticket under the mistaken notion
that the reporter was the conductor. Another shake brought them round and they answered everything
as kindly as if the unavoidable breaking in upon their comfort were a matter of no concern
whatever. Sometimes it would seem that great sorrow must have a chastening effect upon everyone.

From All Parts of the World.

It was a strange gathering altogether, and made one think again of the remark so often repeated
in "No Thoroughfare," "How small the world is." All the ends of the earth had sent their people
to meet at the disaster, and the tide of human life flows on as recklessly as the current of
any sea or river. Here weary, sleepy and sad, was Jacob Schmidt, of Aspen, Col. He had been
a passenger on the Pittsburgh day express. He was standing on the platform when the flood came
and by a lurching of the car he was thrown into the boiling torrent. He managed to seize a
floating plank and was saved, but all his money and other valuables were lost. That was a particularly
hard loss to him, because he was on his way to South Africa to seek his fortune. Behind him
was R.B. Jones, who had come from the other side of the globe; in particular from Sydney, Australia,
and met the others at Altoona. He was on the way for a visit to his parents in York County.
He was on the Chicago Limited and just escaped the danger.

In a front car was Peter Sherman, of Pawtucket, R.I. He was tall and broad shouldered and his
sun-browned face was shaded by a big soft hat. He was on his way from Texarkana, way down in
Texas, and he too was at Conemaugh. He was a passenger on the first section of the day express.
He had not slept a wink on the way down from Altoona, and he told his story spiritedly. He
said: "I heard a voice in the car crying the reservoir is burst; run for your lives! I got
up and made a rush for the door. A poor little cripple with two crutches sat in front of me
and screamed to me to save him or he would be drowned. I grabbed him up under one arm and took
his crutches with my free hand. As we stepped from the car the water was coming. I made my
way up the hill toward a church. The water swooped down on us and was soon up to my knees.
I told the cripple I could not carry him further; that we should both be lost. He screamed
to me again to save him, but the water was gaining rapidly on us. He had a grip of my arm,
but finally let go, and I laid him, hopefully, on the wooden steps of a house. I managed to
reach the high land just in time. I never saw the cripple afterwards, but I learned that he
was drowned."

A Great Loss.

A tall, heavily built man, with tattered garments, walked along the platform with the help
of a cane. His face was covered with a beard, and his head was bowed so that his chin almost
touched his breast. One foot was partially covered by a cut shoe, while on the other foot he
wore a boot from which the heel was missing. This was Stephen Johns, a foreman at the Johnson
Steel Rail Works at Woodvale. He was a big, strong man, but his whole frame trembled as he
said: "Yes, I am from Johnstown. I lost my wife and three children there, so I thought I would
leave."

It was only by the greatest effort that Mr. Johns kept the tears back. He then told his experience
in this way: "I was all through the war. I was at Fair Oaks, at Chancellorsville, in the Wilderness,
and many other battles, but never in my life was I in such a hot place as I was on Friday night.
I don't know how I escaped, but here am I alone, wife and children gone. I was at the office
of the company on Friday. We had been receiving telephonic messages all morning that the dam
was unsafe. No one heeded them. I did not know anything about the dam. The bookkeeper said
there was not enough water up there to flood the first floor of the office. I thought he knew,
so I didn't send my family to the hills.

"I don't know what time it was in the afternoon that I saw the flood coming down the valley.
I was standing at the gate. Looking up the valley I saw a great white crowd moving down upon
us. I made a dash for home to try to get my wife and children to the hills. I saw them at the
windows as I ran up to the house. That is the last time I ever saw their faces. No sooner had
I got into the house than the flood struck the building. I was forced into the attic. It was
a brick house with a slate roof. I had intended to keep very cool, but I suppose I forgot all
about that.

Swept Down the Stream.

"It seemed a long time, but I suppose it was not more than a second before the house gave way
and went tumbling down the stream. It turned over and over as it was washed along. I was under
the water as often as I was above it. I could hear my wife and children praying, although I
could not see them. I did not pray. They were taken and I was left for some purpose, I suppose.
My house finally landed up against the stone railway bridge. I was then pinned down to the
floor by a heavy rafter or something. Somehow or other I was lifted from the floor and thrown
almost out upon the bridge. Then some people got hold of me and pulled me out and took me over
to a brickyard. My eyes and nose were full of cinders. After I reached the brickyard I vomited
fully a pint of cinders which I had swallowed while coming through that awful stream of water.
I can't tell you what it was like. No one can understand it unless he or she passed through it."

"Did you find your wife and children?"

"No. I searched for them all of Saturday, Sunday and Monday, but could find no trace of them.
I think they must have been among those who perished in the fire at the bridge. I would have
staid there and worked had it not been the place was so near my old home that I could not stand
it. I thought I would be better off away from there where I could not see anything to recall
that horrible sight."

How the Survivors Live.

With a view of showing the character of living in and about Johnstown, how the people pass
each day and what the conveniences and deprivations of domestic life experienced under the
new order of things so suddenly introduced by the flood are, an investigation of a house-to-house
nature was made to-day. As a result, it was noted that the degrees of comfort varied with the
people as the types of human nature. As remarked by a visitor:

"The calamity has served to bring to the surface every phase of character in man, and to bring
into development traits that had before been but dormant. Generally speaking all are on the
same footing so far as need can be concerned. Whether houses remain to them or not, all the
people have to be fed, for even should they have money, cash is of no account, provisions cannot
be bought; people who still have homes nearly all of them furnish quarters for some of the
visitors. Militia officers, committeemen, workmen, &c., must depend upon the supply stations
for food."

At Prospect.

The best preserved borough adjoining Johnstown is Prospect, with its uniformly built gray houses,
rising tier upon tier against the side of the mountain, at the north of Johnstown. There are
in the neighborhood of 150 homes here, and all look as if but one architect designed them.
They are large, broad gabled, two-story affairs, with comfortable porches, extending all the
way across the front, each being divided by an interior partition, so as to accommodate two
families. The situation overlooked the entire shoe-shaped district, heretofore described.

Nearly every householder in Prospect is feeding not only his own family, but from two to ten
others, whom he has welcomed to share what he has. Said one of these "We are all obliged to
go to the general department for supplies, for we could not live otherwise. Our houses have
not been touched, but we have given away nearly everything in the way of clothing, except what
we have on. There were two little stores up here, but we purchased all they had long ago. It
does not matter whether the people are rich or poor, they are all compelled to take their chances.
In Prospect are the quarters of the Americus Club, of Pittsburgh, an organization which is
widely spoken of as having distinguished itself by furnishing meals to any and every hungry
person who applied."

An Incident.

As two newspaper men were about to descend the hill, after visiting a number of points, a little
woman approached and made an inquiry about the running of trains. She was one of the survivors
and wished to reach Clearfield, where her grown-up sons were. "I'd walk it if I could," she
said, "but it's too far, and I'm too old now." She was living with her friends, who have taken
care of her since her home was swept away.

A Distributing Point.

At the base of the long flight of wooden steps that lead to Prospect is the path extending
across to the Pennsylvania Railroad station. Here is one of the principal distributing points.
Three times each day a remarkable sight is here to be witnessed. Along the track at the eastern
end, from the station platform back as far as the freight house, standing upon railroad ties,
resting upon piles of lumber, and trying to hold their places in the line of succession in
any position possible, crowds of people wait to be served. Aged, decrepit men and women and
little girls and boys hold baskets, boxes, tin cans, wooden buckets, or any receptacle handy
in which they may carry off provisons for the day.

Sad Sights.

The women have, many of them, tattered or ill-fitting clothing, taken at random when the first
supply of this character arrived, their heads covered with thin shawls or calico sun shades.
They stand there in the chilly morning wind that blows through the valley along the mountains,
patiently waiting their turn at the provision table, making no complaint of cold feet and chilled
bodies. In the line are people who, ten days ago, had sufficient of this world's goods to enable
them to live comfortably the remainder of their lives. They are massed in solidly.

Guards of soldiers stand at short intervals to keep them back and preserve the lines, and sentries
march up and down the entire length of the station challenging the approach of any one who
desires to pass along the platform. For a distance of about one hundred feet to the railroad
signal tower are piled barrels of flour, boxes of provisions, and supplies of all descriptions.
Under the shed of the station an incongruous collection of clothing is being arranged to allow
of convenient distribution. While they waited for the signal to commence operations, a guard
entered into conversation with a woman in the line. She was evidently telling a story of distress,
for the guard looked about hastily to a spot where canned meats and bread were located and
made a movement as if to obtain a supply for the woman, but the eyes of brother soldiers and
a superior officer were upon him and he again assumed his position. It is said to be not unusual
for the soldiers, under cover of dusk, to overstep their duty in order to serve some applicant
who, through age or lack of physical strength, is poorly equipped to bear the strain. All sorts
of provisions are asked for. One woman asks boldly for ham, canned chicken, vegetables and
flour. Another approaches timidly and would be glad to have a few loaves of bread and a little
coffee.

No Discrimination.

Before complete system was introduced complaint was made of discrimination by those dealing
out supplies, but under the present order of things the endeavor is made to treat everybody
impartially. Provisions are given out in order, so that imposition is avoided. It would seem
that there could be no imposition in any case, however. The people who are here, and who are
able to get within the lines at all, have a reason for their presence, and this is not curiosity.
They are here for anything but entertainment, and there is no possibility of purchasing supplies.
All must needs apply at the commissary department.

A big distributing point for clothing is at the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad station, in the
Fourth Ward, known as Harpville, on the east bank of the Stony creek. A rudely constructed
platform extends over a washed-out ditch, partially filled with débris. In the vicinity is
a large barn and several smaller outhouses, thrown in a tumble-down condition. Piled against
them are beams and rafters from houses smashed into kindling wood. All about the station are
boxes, empty and full, scattered in confusion, and around and about these crowds are clustered
as best they can. A big policeman stands upon a raised platform made of small boxes, and as
he is supplied with goods from the station he throws about in the crowds socks, shoes, dresses,
shirts, pantaloons, etc., guessing as rapidly as possible at proportion and speedily getting
rid of his bundle. Around the corner, on a street running at right angles with the tracks,
is the provision department. These two are sample stations. They are scattered about at convenient
points, and number about ten in all.

CHAPTER XVII.

One Week After the Great Disaster.

By slow degrees and painful labor the barren place where Johnstown stood begins again to look
a little like the habitations of a civilized community. Daily a little is added to the cleared
space once filled with the concrete rubbish of this town, daily the number of willing workers
who are helping the town to rise again increases. To-day the great yellow plain which was filled
with the best business blocks and residences before the flood is covered with tents for soldiers
and laborers and gangs of men at work. The wrecks are being removed or burned up. Those houses
which were left only partially destroyed are beginning to be repaired. Still, it will be months,
very likely years, before the pathway of the flood ceases to be perfectly plain through the
town. Its boundaries are as plainly marked now as if drawn on a map; where the flood went it
left its ineffaceable track. Nearly one-half of the triangle in which Johnstown stood is plainly
marked, one angle of the triangle pointing to the east and directly up the Conemaugh Valley,
from which the flood descended. Its eastern side was formed by the line of the river. The second
angle pointed toward the big stone arch bridge, which played such an important part in the
tragedy. The western ran along the base of the mountain on the bank of Stony Creek, and the
third angle was toward Stony Creek Valley.

Miles of Buildings in the Wreck.

Imagine that before the flood this triangle was thickly covered with houses. The lower or northern
part was filled with solid business blocks, the upper or southern half with residences, for
the most part built of wood. Picture this triangle as a mile and a half in its greatest length
and three-quarters of a mile in its greatest breadth. This was the way Johnstown was ten days
ago. Now imagine that in the lower half of this triangle, where the business blocks were, every
object has been utterly swept away with the exception of perhaps seven scattered buildings.
In their places is nothing but sand and heaps of débris. Imagine that in the upper portion
of this triangle the pathway of destruction has been clearly cut. Along the pathway houses
have been torn to pieces, turned upside down, laid upon their sides or twisted on their foundations.
Put into the open space on the lower end of the triangle the tents and the fires of burning
rubbish and you will have the picture of Johnstown to-day.

Unheeded Warnings.

The people had been warned enough about the dangers of their location. They had been told again
and again that the dam was unsafe, and whenever the freshets were out there were stories and
rumors of its probable breaking. The freshets had been high for many days before that fatal
Friday. All the creeks were over their banks and their waters were running on the streets.
Cellars and pavements were flooded. Reports from the dam showed that it was holding back more
water than at any other time in its history. A telegraph despatch early in the afternoon gave
startling information about the cracks in the dam, but it was the old story of the wolf. They
had heard it so often that they heard it this time and did not care.

The first warning that the people had of their coming doom was the roar of the advancing wave.
It rushed out of the valley at four o'clock in the afternoon with incredible swiftness. Those
who saw it and are still alive say that it seemed to be as high as an ordinary house. It carried
in its front an immense amount of battered wreckage, and over it hung a cloud of what seemed
to be fog, but was the dust from the buildings it had destroyed. Straight across the river
it rushed upon the apex of the triangle. It struck the first houses and swept them away in
fragments. The cries and shrieks of the frightened people began to be heard above the roar
of the floods, and a few steps further the great wave struck some unusually solid structure.
Its force right in the centre was already diminished. On these houses it split and the greater
part of it went on diagonally across the triangle, deflecting somewhat toward the north and
so on down to the stone arch bridge.

Nothing Could Withstand the Flood.

Wherever it went the houses tumbled down as if they were built of cards. It was not alone the
great volume of water, but the immense revolving mass of lumber it carried, that gave it an
additional and terrific force, and houses, five bridges, railroad trains, boilers and factories
were whirling furiously about. What could stand against such an instrument of destruction as
this? It swept the triangle as clean as a board. It tore up pavements. It dug out railroad
tracks, and twisted them into strange and fantastic shapes. It carried with it thousands of
human beings, crushing them against the fragments, and drove their bodies into the thick mass
of mud and sand which it carried at the bottom. It went on and on straight as an arrow, and
piled masses of all it had gathered against and over the solid arches of the stone bridge.
The bridge sustained the shock. How it did it engineers who have seen the effects and the marvellous
strength of the flood in other places wonder. An immense raft of houses and lumber and trees
and rubbish of every kind, acres in extent, collected here.

Roasted in the Débris.

In these houses were imprisoned people still alive, in numbers estimated at two or three thousand,
tossed about in the whirling flood which was turned into strange eddies by the obstruction
it had met. In some way not explained a fire broke out.

The frame structures packed in closely together were like so much tinder wood. Those who had
escaped drowning died in their prisons a more horrible death.

While this was going on that part of the divided stream which turned to the south continued
on its way. At first its violence was undiminished, but as it went on the inclination of the
land and the obstacles it met somewhat broke its force. It swept across the triangle, inclining
toward the south, and was turned still further in that direction by the bed of Stony Creek,
at the foot of the mountain which forms the western barrier of the basin in which Johnstown
lies. Its course is plainly visible now, as it was two hours afterward. Where it started everything
is cleared away.

A little further along the houses are still standing, but they are only masses of lumber and
laths. Still further to the north they are overturned or lying upon their sides or corners,
some curiously battered and as full of great holes as if they had been shot at with cannon.
They are surrounded by driftwood and timbers, ground into splinters, railroad cars, ties and
beams, all in a wild, untraceable jumble.

The wave reached to the north at least a distance of a mile from the point where it was divided.
Then it swept backward. It carried with it many houses that had come from every part of the river.

At the Mercy of the Waves.

Upon them and upon flooded roofs and doors and timbers were men, women and children crying,
beseeching and praying for help. Those on the shore who were watching this never to be forgotten
spectacle saw the sufferers in the river go sweeping by, saw them come down again and still
were unable to give them the slightest assistance. The flood proceeded half a mile or more,
and then was met and reinforced by a wave started backward from the eddy formed at the stone
arch bridge. With redoubled force it turned once more to the south and then it went half a
mile further, toppling over the houses, wrecking some and adding some to those which it had
brought down from other places. For the second time it spent its force and turned back, swept
to the south and to destruction those who had four times been within sight of safety. This
time the whole mass of flooded wreckage was carried down to the stone arch bridge and added
to the collection there and at last to the fire that was raging.

Hundreds Will Never Be Found.

The blackened timber left from this fire, wedged in tightly above the bridge, is the only gorge
at which workmen have labored all this week with dynamite and monstrous cranes. In it and below
it are unnumbered hundreds of bodies. How many perished in that frightful fire will never be
known. Only a small proportion of the bodies can ever be found. Some were burned so that nothing
but a handful of ashes remained, and that was swept away long ago with the torrent. Some were
buried deep in the sand, and some have been carried down and hidden in sand banks and slews.
Many will be destroyed by dynamite, and some will have disappeared long before the great flood
of rubbish can be removed. Of all the horrible features of this dreadful story none is more
heartrending than the story of that fire. It began about five o'clock that afternoon and went
on all night and all the next day, and smouldered until Monday noon. Its progress was retarded
somewhat by the rain and by the soaking of the material in the water, but this was only an
added horror, for it prolonged the anguish for those imprisoned in the great raft who plainly
saw their approaching death.

Those who saw this sight from the shore cannot speak of it now and will hardly be able to speak
of it as long as they live without tears. Imagination could not picture a situation more harrowing
to human feeling than to stand there and watch that horrible scene without being able to rescue
the prisoners or even alleviate their sufferings.

Ruins Left to Tell the Tale.

Just below the stone bridge are the great works of the Cambria Iron Company. They occupy the
eastern bank of the stream for a distance of half a mile. The flood, tearing over the bridge,
descended upon these works and tore the southernmost end of them to pieces. The rest of the
buildings escaped, but none of the works were swept away in the torrent. An iron bridge used
jointly by the public and by the iron company to transport its coal from the mines across the
river was caught by the very front of the flood and tossed away as if built of toothpicks.

Looking from the stone arch bridge, the iron company's buildings, the lower town school house,
three of the buildings which divided the flood, a church, part of a brick residence and a little
cluster of brick business houses, is all that can be seen above the yellow waste. Why these
buildings are left it is impossible to say. The school house, except for most of the windows
being battered in and the scars and dents driven into it from the passing wreckage, is almost
uninjured, although it stands directly in the centre of the flood.

Locomotives Swimming in the Torrent.

It is plain from the appearance of the buildings that the direction of the flood in many places
was rotary, and the houses which still stand may have escaped between the eddies. No other
explanation seems possible, for the force of the torrent was tremendous. It carried five locomotives,
with their tenders, several miles, and piled them up against the stone bridge as easily as
it carried a box of clothespins. At the head of the iron company's works was a great pile of
iron in pieces eight feet long and a foot and a half thick either way. The flood toppled these
over. In the half charred raft above the bridge are found great boilers, masses of iron, twisted
beams and girders from bridges, heavy safes, pieces of railroad track, a hundred car wheels,
mixed with every conceivable object of household use--pianos, sofas, dressing cases, crockery,
trunks and their contents.

Yet in all that mass it is impossible to find any trace of that pile of bricks built into the
business houses of the town; nor yet upon the banks, nor in the heaps of sand which, when the
flood went down, were left here and there, is there any trace of the material of the building
except the lumber. In the opinion of experts, all this stuff must have been ground into powder
and swept down the river. Johnstown will never resume its former importance. A curse will hang
over this beautiful valley as long as this generation lasts. The sanitary experts who have
examined the place say that in all probability it will be plague ridden for years and years.

Decomposing Bodies in the Wreck.

The massive stone bridge of the Pennsylvania Railroad, opposite the Cambria Iron Works, marks
the point of demarcation between the borough of Johnstown and that of Cambria City. The changes
in the situation which have occurred since the eventful Friday have not been numerous. The
wreckage impacted beneath the arches has been removed from three of them, leaving four, which
are closed by masses of timber and drift material. I climbed over the débris in the famous
cul-de-sac and reached the second from the Johnstown side after half an hour's labor. The appearance
was singular. Beneath the conglomeration of timber which filled the cavity of the arch to a
distance of twenty-five feet from the top the waters of the Conemaugh flowed swiftly.

There was a network of telegraph wires, iron rods and metal work of Pullman cars stretched
across from stone work to stone work on either side. The gridiron, as it were, penetrated far
down into the water, and it had proved sufficiently strong to resist the onward rush of the
lighter flotsam which swept before the onrolling wave. Lodged in this strange pile was the
body of a horse. Deep among the meshes a terrible spectacle presented itself. There were the
bodies of three people--a woman, a child and a laborer with hobnailed shoes. They were beyond
the reach of the workers who are clearing the wreck near to the bridge and the latter will
be unable to reach the corpses until a considerable amount of blasting with dynamite has been
done. There was a faint odor of decomposition and another day will cause the vicinity of the
viaduct to suggest a charnel house to the olfactory senses. There are many other bodies, no
doubt, beneath the débris and prevented from floating down the stream by the ruins.

Cambria City Paralyzed.

Conemaugh City was connected with the Cambria Iron Works, on the opposite side of the Conemaugh,
by a temporary suspension bridge of steel wire. The bridge was originally for two railways--a
narrow and a broad gauge--and a footway. It was swept away before the reservoir burst, according
to all accounts. Cambria City, or rather a fringe of houses along the higher ground of the
bank, the remaining portion of a once prosperous town, is absolutely paralyzed by the stunning
blow which has befallen it. There are but few people at work among the débris. The clean sweep
of the flood left little wreckage behind. A few sad-faced women wandered about and poked in
the sand and among the broken stone which now covers the location of their former homes. The
men who were saved have returned to their work at the Cambria mills, and the survivors among
their families are stowed in the houses which remain intact. There must have been at least
one thousand lives lost from Cambria City.

There has been no attempt to replace the bridge at "Ten Acre," as the point below Cambria City
is called. The banks of the Conemaugh remain covered with débris. In many places the masses
are piled twenty-five feet high. The people are clearing their land by burning the unwonted
accumulations. Only an occasional body is found. Most of the 200 corpses which have been buried
at Nineveh were found in the bushes which fringe the river. All the way to Freeport the accumulation
of débris may be seen.

Kindly Care for the Helpless.

There is to-day no lack of supplies, save at Cambria City, which has been overlooked and neglected,
but where the destitution is great. The people there are in great want of food. Bread has given
out, and ham is about the only food to be obtained. In only one of the wrecked houses left
untouched by the flood I found from twenty to twenty-five refugees. The commissary at the Pennsylvania
Railroad depot is heaped so high with stores that distribution goes on with difficulty. The
Grubbtown commissary is in the same condition. The Red Cross people got fairly to work in their
supply tent to-day, and during the morning alone distributed five hundred packages of clothing.
Their hospital on the hill, back of Kernville, is in excellent order, and the patients quartered
in the village houses are comfortably situated. There have been no deaths at the Cambria hospital.
The doctors there have cared for 500 cases indoors and out. Even Grandma Teeter is doing well.
She was taken out of the wreck at the bridge on Saturday with her right arm crushed. It had
to be amputated, and the old woman--she is eighty-three years of age--stood the operation finely.

Miss Hinckley, of Philadelphia, is busy in Kernville making known the plans of the Children's
Aid Society. She does an immense amount of running about and visiting houses. Many children
made orphans by the flood are now being cared for. There are a hundred or more of them; just
how many no one knows.

"I have great difficulty," said Miss Hinckley to me to-day, "to persuade the people who have
taken children to care for that our society can be trusted to take charge of what will surely
be a burden to them. All my work now is to inspire confidence. We have received hundreds of
letters from people anxious to adopt children. They are ready now in the first flush of sympathy,
but I am afraid that they will not be willing to take the children when we are ready to place
them."

Many Dead Still in the Ruins.

The ruins still shelter a ghastly load of dead. Every hour at least one new body is uncovered
and borne on a rough stretcher to some one of the many morgues. The sight loses none of its
sadness and pathos by its commonness; only the horror is gone, giving place to apathy and stupor.
Stalwart men, in mud-stained, working clothes, bring up the body, the face covered with a cloth.
The crowds part and gaze at the burned corpse as it passes. At the morgue it is examined for
identification, washed and prepared for burial. Not more than half of these recovered now are
identified.

The vast majority fill nameless but numbered graves, and the descriptions are much too indefinite
to hope for identification after burial. What can you expect from a description like this,
picked out at random: "Woman, five feet four inches tall, long hair?" The body of Eugene Hannon,
twenty-two, found yesterday near the First Presbyterian Church, was identified to-day by his
father. He was a member of the League of American Wheelmen, and his bicycle was found within
a few yards of his body. The father will lay the wrecked bicycle on the coffin of his son.

Just now a woman, still young and poorly dressed, went by the shed where I am writing, sobbing
most pitifully. She lost her husband and children in the flood and is on the verge of insanity.

Finding Solace in Work.

The day opened with heavy rain and an early morning thunder storm. The hillside streams were
filled to the banks and everything was dripping. The air was chilly and damp, and daylight
was slow in coming to this valley of desolation and death. At an early hour the valley, where
so many have gone to rest, presented a most dismal scene. It looked, indeed, like the valley
of the dead. Nothing was moving, and all remained within the meagre shelter offered them till
the day had fairly begun. As the day advanced, the tented hills began to show signs of life,
smoke arose from many a camp fire, and on every eminence surrounding this valley of desolation
could be seen the guards moving among the tented villages.

The weather was most unpleasant for any one to be outdoors, but it apparently had no effect
on the people here, for as soon as the early breakfast was over the thousands of workmen could
be seen going to their work, and soon the whole valley that in the early morning hours was
asleep was a teeming throng of life and activity. While the rain was far from pleasant to the
workers and many helpers, it was certainly providential that the cool weather is continuing
in order to prevent the much-dreaded decomposition of the hundreds of human bodies yet unrecovered
and the thousands of animals that perished in the flood. The air this morning, while tainted
to some extent with the fumes arising from the decaying bodies, was not near so bad as it would
have been had the morning been hot and sultry.

Working on the Stone Bridge Débris.

By seven o'clock the whole valley was full of people and the scene was a most animated one.
The various sections of the flooded territory were full of men busy in searching for the dead,
removing and burning the débris. At eight o'clock this morning five bodies had been taken from
the mass at the stone bridge. A large force of men have been working all day on this part of
the wreck, but so great is the quantity of wreckage to be gone over and removed that while
much work is done very slow progress is being made. The continued falling of the river renders
the removal of the débris every day more arduous, and where a few days ago the timbers when
loosened would float away, now they have to be moved by hand, making the work very slow.

A most welcome arrival this morning was Dr. B. Bullen of disinfectant fame. He brought with
him fifty barrels more of his disinfectant. The doctor will take charge of the disinfecting
of the dangerous sections of the flooded district and notably at the stone bridge. Twenty-five
barrels have already been used with most favorable results. Dr. Bullen was a former resident
of Johnstown and lost thirty relatives in the flood, among them three brothers-in-law, three
uncles and two aunts.

Clearing the Cambria Iron Works.

The Cambria Iron Company's Works presented a busy scene to-day. At least nine hundred men are
at work, and most rapid progress is being made in clearing away the wreck. It is said that
the works will start up in about three weeks.

There is little change in the situation. Every one is working with the one end in view, to
clear away the wreckage and give the people of Johnstown a chance to rebuild. The laborers
working at the Cambria Iron Works and on the Pennsylvania Railroad seem to be making rapid
progress. This is no doubt for the reason that these men are more used to this kind of work.
About ten o'clock the rain was over and the sun came out with its fierce June heat.

A number of charges of dynamite were fired during the day, and each time with good effect.
The channels through to the bridge are almost clear of débris, and each charge of dynamite
has loosened large quantities of the wreckage.

This is the eighth day since the demon of destruction swept down the valley of the Conemaugh,
but the desolation that marks its angry flight is still visible in all its intensity and horror.
The days that have been spent by weary toilers whose efforts were steeled by grief have done
little to repair the devastation wrought in one short hour by the potent fury of the elements.
To the watchers on the mountain side all seems yet chaos and confusion. The thousand fires
that spot the valley show that the torch is being used to complete the work of annihilation
where repair is impossible and the smoke curls upward. It reminds one of the peace offerings
of ancient Babylon.

Uncle Sam's Men on Hand.

The corps of government engineers that arrived last night has already demonstrated the valuable
assistance which it is capable of rendering in these times of emergency. With but a few hours
rest, those men were up ere sunrise this morning, and by eight o'clock a pontoon bridge had
been stretched across the river at Kernville. Acting in conjunction with the Pennsylvania military
authorities they are pursuing their labors at various other points, and by sundown it is confidently
expected that pontoon bridges will be erected at all places where the necessities of traffic
demand. It is the fact, probably not generally known, that the great government of the United
States owns only 500 feet of pontoon bridges, and that these are the same that were used by
the federal forces in the civil war, twenty-five years ago. The bridges that are to be used
at Johnstown were brought from West Point and Willet's Point, where they have been for years
used in the ordinary course of instruction in the military and engineer corps.

Secret Society Relief.

The following official announcements have been made:

A Masonic relief committee has been organized and solicits aid for distressed Freemasons and
their families.

WILLIAM A. DONALDSON, Chairman.

OFFICE OF SUPREME COMMANDER, KNIGHTS OF THE MYSTIC CHAIN, WILMINGTON, DEL., June 8, 1889.--In
view of the great calamity that has befallen our brothers at Johnstown, Pa., and vicinity,
I, H.G. Rettes, Supreme Commander, request that wherever the Order of the Knights of the Mystic
Chain exists there be liberal donations made for our afflicted brothers.

Affairs at the tremendous stone bridge wreckage pile seem to have resolved themselves into
a state of almost hopelessness. It is amazing the routine into which everything has fallen
in this particular place. Every morning at seven o'clock a score of Lilliputs come mechanically
from huts and tents or the bare hillside, and wearily and weakly go to work clearing away this
mass, and at the rate they are now proceeding it will actually be months before the débris
is cleared away and the last body found. Fortunately the wind is blowing away from us or we
would have olfactory evidence that what is not found is far worse than what has been exposed.

Then it may be good business and good policy to have these few workers fool around the edge
of the wreckage for five or ten minutes adjusting a dynamite blast, then hastily scramble away
and consume as much more time before a tremendous roar announces the ugly work is done, but
the onlookers doubt it. Sometimes, when an extra large shot is used, the water, bits of wood
and iron, and other shapes more fearfully suggestive, fly directly upward in a solid column
at least three hundred feet high, only to fall back again in almost the same spot, to be tugged
and pulled at or coaxed to float down an unwilling current that is falling so rapidly now that
even this poor mode of egress will soon be shut entirely off.

The fact of the matter is simply this: They are not attempting to recover bodies at the bridge,
but as one blast tears yards of stuff into flinders it is shoved indifferently into the water,
be it human or brute, stone, wood or iron, to float down toward Pittsburgh or to sink to the
bottom, may be a few yards from where it was pushed off from the main pile.

Up in the centre of the town the débris is piled even higher than at the stone bridge, but
the work is going on fairly well. The men seem to be working more together and enter into the
spirit of the thing. Besides this, horses and wagons can get at the wrecks, and it really looks
as if this part of the ruins has been exaggerated, and some of the foremen there say that at
the present rate of work going on through the town all the bodies that ever will be recovered
will be found within the next ten days. As to the condition these bodies are in, that has become
almost a matter of indifference, except as to the effect upon the health of the living.

Compared with other Calamities.

An eye-witness writes as follows:

The scene is one that cannot be described in outline--it must be told in detail to become intelligible.
Never before in this country, at least, was there a disaster so stupendous, so overwhelming,
so terrible in its fierce and unheralded onset and so sorrowful in its death-dealing work.
I traversed the Mill River Valley the day after the bursting of the Mill River dam. I went
over Wallingford, in Connecticut, a few hours after that terrible cyclone had swept through
the beautiful New England village. I stood on the broken walls of the Brooklyn Theatre and
looked down upon hecatombs of dead sacrificed in that holocaust to Momus. Each of these was
in itself a terrible calamity, but here is not only what was most terrible in all these, but
every horrifying feature of the Mill River flood, the Wallingford cyclone and the Brooklyn
Theatre fire is here magnified tenfold, nay, a hundred fold. And what is even more terrible
than the scenes of devastation, the piles of dead that have been unearthed from the ruins and
the mangled human bodies that still remain buried in the débris, is the simple but startling
fact that this disaster ought not to have happened.

The flood was not due to the rains. This calamity is not the work of the unprovoked fury of
the angry elements. This fair town and the populous valley above it, all the varied industries
of this thriving city, all these precious lives are a sacrifice to the selfishness of a few
men whose purses were bigger than their hearts. There would have been no flood if these rich
men had not built an artificial pond in which to catch fish.

The now famous dam was only a mud bank. For years it was a constant menace to Johnstown and
the Conemaugh Valley. It has long been only a question of time when the calamity that has befallen
these people should befall them. It came at last because the arrogance of the purse and the
pleasure-seeking selfishness of wealth were blind to the safety of a populous community.

The cause of the Johnstown disaster was wholly due to the South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club.
This club was specially chartered by the Legislature, and notwithstanding there was some opposition
at the time, it was accorded the privilege of making an artificial lake and fish pond by means
of an embankment. The site chosen was the old dam on South Fork Creek, about two miles above
the village of South Fork, on the Conemaugh river. This dam was built by the Pennsylvania Canal
in 1830 as a feeder to the canal below Johnstown. When the canal was finally abandoned, after
passing into the hands of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, the dam was sold to a private
buyer for the very reasonable sum of $700. By him it was afterwards conveyed to the Fishing
and Hunting Club for $1,400. This was about twenty years ago. The club spent $22,000 in rebuilding
the dam and erected a beautiful club house on the west bank of the artificial lake. Beside
the club house there are from twelve to fifteen cottages, the summer residences of members
of the club, all built since the acquisition of the property twenty years ago. Ten of these
cottages are visible from the embankment where the break occurred. It was a beautiful spot
before the disaster, but this artificial lake in its placid beauty was a menace to the lives
and property of the people in the Conemaugh Valley from its completion to its destruction.

The South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club was a very aristocratic and exclusive organization.
Not even Tuxedo puts on more airs. It was composed of about seventy members, a baker's dozen
of them Pittsburgh millionaires.

These wealthy gentlemen and their associates never so much as recognized the existence of the
common clay of South Fork, except to warn all intruders to keep off the land and water of the
South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club. Their placards still stare sight-seers in the face. One
of these reads:

  PRIVATE PROPERTY.

  ALL TRESPASSERS FOUND HUNTING OR FISHING ON
  THESE GROUNDS WILL BE PROSECUTED TO THE
  FULL EXTENT OF THE LAW.

Another is as follows:

  PRIVATE PROPERTY.

  NO FISHING OR HUNTING ON THESE PREMISES, UNDER
  PENALTY OF THE LAW, $100.
  SOUTH FORK HUNTING AND FISHING CLUB.

Only an Earthwork.

Strenuously as the club insisted upon exacting the full penalties and extent of the law for
encroachments upon its privileges, it was quite heedless of the rights of others. There probably
never was in the world a case of such blind fatuity as that of the South Fork Fishing and Hunting
Club in building and maintaining its dam. From the first it must have been known to every member
of the club, as it certainly was to every resident of the South Fork and Conemaugh Valleys,
that if the water ever began to run over the breast of the dam the dam itself would give way.
The dam was only a clay embankment. There was no masonry whatever--at least there is none visible
in the break. The bottom was of brushwood and earth--some people in the South Fork valley say
hay and sand. In consequence, the people below the dam who knew how it was built have always
regarded it as a menace to their safety. Indeed, one man employed in its construction was discharged
by the club or its contractor for protesting against the dam as insecure. His crime consisted
in declaring that an embankment made in that way could not resist the force of an overflow.
He was telling the simple truth, which was clear to every one except men disposed to take chances.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A Walk Through the Valley of Death.

In the following graphic narrative one of the eye-witnesses of the fearful ruin and slaughter
represents himself as a guide, and if the reader will consider himself as the party whom the
guide is conducting, a vivid impression of the scene of the great destruction may be obtained.

"Hello, where on earth did you come from? And what are you doing here, anyhow? Oh! you just
dropped in to see the sights, eh? Well, there are plenty of them and you won't see the like
of them again if you live a century. What's that? You have been wandering around and got tangled
up in the ruins and don't know where you are? Well, that's not strange. I have been lost myself
a dozen times. It's a wonder you haven't got roasted by some of those huge bonfires. But here,
you come with me. Let me be your guide for the afternoon and I'll put you in the way of seeing
what is left of Johnstown.

"First, let's climb up this bluff just before us and we shall have a first-rate view of things.
Skip across this little temporary bridge over this babbling brook and now--climb! Whew! that
takes your breath, doesn't it? But it is worth the trouble. Now you see we are standing on
an embankment perhaps thirty feet high. We are in the midst, too, of a lot of tents. It is
here that the soldier boys are encamped. Off to one side you see the freight depot of the Pennsylvania
Railroad and the tracks, you notice, run along on the top of this embankment. It is in that
freight depot that Adjutant General Hastings has his headquarters. We will walk over there
presently, but first let's take a look at our surroundings.

Prospect Hill.

"You notice, I suppose, that this flat spreading out before us at the bottom of the embankment
is inclosed on all sides by mountains. They are shaped something like a triangle and we are
standing at the base. Here, let me make a rough sketch of it on the back of this envelope.
It will help us out a little. There! That figure 1 is the freight depot, near which we are
standing. Towering up above us are houses and up there a canvas city for refugees. There is
a temporary hospital there, too, and a graveyard, where many a poor victim of the flood lies.
The background is a high hill. The people here call it Prospect Hill. The flood! Gracious!
what a view the people up the hill must have had of it as it whirled, and eddied, and roared
and rushed through the town, for this great flat before us was where the main portion of Johnstown
stood.

"You notice that there are gaps in the mountain chains which form the sides of the triangle.
Through the gap at our left comes the Conemaugh River, flowing from the mountain on its way
westward. River, did I say? I don't wonder you smile. It doesn't look much like a river--that
little bubbling stream. Can you imagine it swelling into a mighty sea, that puny thing, that
is smiling in its glee over the awful havoc it has created? Now you are beginning to understand
how it is that Johnstown proper lies within the forks of two streams. The Conemaugh runs by
us at our feet to the right. See, there is a wrecked and overturned car down there. If thrown
across the stream it would almost bridge it. That is Stony Creek on the other side of the flat,
running down through that gap which forms the apex of the triangle. It skirts the mountains
on the right and the two streams meet. You can't see the meeting point from here, for our embankment
curves, but they do meet around that curve, and then the united rivers flow under the now famous
stone bridge, which was built to carry this railroad across the stream. Oh! yes, we will go
down there, for that bridge formed the gorge which proved so destructive.

Savage Fury.

"I would like to take you away up to the dam if we had time and point out the destruction all
along down the valley until the flood rushed through that gap to the left and then spread over
Johnstown. But it is too late in the day for that, and the walk is a most tiresome one, so
you will have to take my word for it. Of course, you have read that the dam was constructed
in a most outrageous manner. Well, that is true. It is a wonder the valley wasn't swept long
ago. No, the loss of life wasn't great in the upper part of the valley because the people took
the warning which the Johnstonians refused and mostly escaped. The little town of South Fork
was badly shattered and Mineral Point was swept away.

"But the real fury of the flood is seen in its marks on the soil. Gracious! how it leveled
forests, swept away bowlders, cut out new channels and destroyed everything in its path. I
cannot begin to give you even an idea of the wonderful power of that flood. At East Conemaugh
not a vestige of the place was left. Where once stood a row of houses the river now runs, and
the former river-bed is now filled with dirt and stones. It was in this vicinity, you know,
where so many engines and cars were wrecked--smashed, twisted, broken and scattered along the
valley for half a mile. It was here, too, where the passengers in the two trains met such a
thrilling experience, and where so many of them were killed. The body of one of the passengers,
Miss Bryan, of Germantown, was found away down here in Johnstown.

"It took but a few minutes for the flood to rush down upon Woodvale and sweep it out of existence,
and then it made a mad break through that gap over there on the extreme left. The houses which
you see on the hillside over there--figure 6--belong to Conemaugh borough, a different place
from East Conemaugh, you understand. The borough also extended down over the flat. By the way,
there is something very funny about all these separate boroughs. Most all of them are naturally
parts of Johnstown--such as Conemaugh, Kernville, Cambria City, Prospect and the like, but
there have been so many petty jealousies that they have refused to unite. But that is neither
here nor there now, for in the common calamity they are one.

Laughing at Danger.

"Now you would have thought that the people on the Johnstown flat would have got out of the
way when warned of danger, wouldn't you? But they simply laughed. You must remember that a
good portion of the place was flooded long before the dam broke. The rise of the two rivers
did that. The water ran from two to five or six feet high in some of the houses. But, bless
you, that was nothing. The place had been flooded so many times and escaped that everybody
actually howled down all suggestions of danger. Telegrams had been coming into town all the
afternoon and they were received by Miss Ogle, the brave lady operator, who stuck to her post
to the last, but they might as well never have been sent for all the good they did.

"Well, now with Johnstown spread out before you you can readily understand what happened when
the flood burst through the gap. There was no time to run then. No time to pray, even. You
notice the river makes a sharp curve, and naturally enough the impetus of the water spread
it over a wide territory. The Conemaugh houses on the flat went down like so many pasteboard
houses. A portion of the flood followed the stream and the other portion went tearing along
the line of the hills which form the left side of the triangle.

Wiped Out of Existence.

"Now look away over to the left and then away over to the hills on the right, and what do you
see? That distance is how great? Two miles, do you say? Yes, fully that and probably more.
Well, now for two or three squares inland from this stream at our feet there is nothing but
a barren waste of sand--looks like a desert, doesn't it? Can you imagine that all that immense
strip was covered with stores, business houses and dwellings? Where are they now? Why, just
look at that circular hole just beneath us on the other side of the stream. That was the gas
works once. The great iron receiver, or whatever you call it, went rolling, dashing, crashing
away before the flood, and not a vestige of it has been found yet. Can you ask, then, what
became of the houses? Simply wiped out of existence.

"There! I put down the figure 2 on the map. It is a brick building, as you see, but there is
a big hole knocked in it. That is the B. and O. depot. Figure 3--Two more brick buildings with
one end completely gone. These are the Cambria Iron Company's offices and the company's stores.
What else can you see? Just around the curve where I mark down figure 4 is another brick building--the
Millvale school-house. It is out of range from this point, but you shall see it by and by.
These buildings are actually the only ones left standing in all that desert of sand, a covering
four or five feet deep left by the flood and hiding whatever is underneath as effectually as
the ashes of Mt. Vesuvius blotted out Pompeii. There may be a thousand bodies under that sand
for all that anybody knows. Just ahead of us in the great area roughly shown by this figure
5 lie the tents of the workmen engaged in putting Johnstown in order. Now, if you draw a line
from the Conemaugh hills right down back of the B. and O. depot through the camp of the workmen,
and thence to Stony Creek, the only buildings you will find standing between us and that imaginary
line are these I have already marked with figures as 2, 3 and 4 on the map. Did you ever see
anything so destructive in your life?

A Famous Morgue.

"You say you see a good many buildings in what appears to be the centre of the town. So you
do, but just wait until you stroll among them. There are many there, it is true, but after
all, how many are good for anything? Oh! the water has been doing a tremendous amount of damage.
Why, over there, up to the very foot of the hills--I will mark the spot No. 7--behind the buildings
which you see, it has simply torn things up by the roots. That is the Fourth Ward, and the
ruins are full of the dead, and the Fourth Ward Morgue has had more bodies in it than any of
the others.

"You remember that I told you that one current swept over that way. It caught up houses and
they began to drift all over the place, crashing into each other and grinding people between
the timbers. All this time the houses down here by the Conemaugh had been floating toward the
bridge. Logs, boards, lumber and houses from the banks of Stony Creek had been coming down,
too, and thus formed that tremendous jam above the stone bridge, which actually turned the
current of the creek back upon itself. Some of the houses from the centre of the city and from
the Fourth ward got into Stony Creek and actually went up the stream. Others floated all over
town in circles and finally, having reached the Conemaugh, got caught in the jam at last and
were destroyed by the fire which broke out there. After a time, too, the pressure at the bridge
became so tremendous that the river burst a new channel for itself and then many houses came
down again.

"But I am anticipating. Let us walk down to the bridge--it is not far--for the bridge is the
key to the situation. We must pass the freight depot, for we follow the track. You see it is
a busy place. You know we have had a change of administration here, and Adjutant General Hastings
is in command. We are all heartily glad of it, too, for the worst kind of red tapeism prevailed
under the Pittsburgh regime.

"And then the deputies--a lot of brutes appointed by the Sheriff. What an ignorant set they
were. Most of them couldn't even read. They were the only toughs in town. They had captured
all the tomato cans left over from the great flood which the Bible tells about and had cut
out tin stars to decorate themselves with. Anybody who could find a piece of tin could be a
deputy. And how they did bulldoze.

"But all this is changed now. The deputies--we called them the tin policemen--have been bounced
and the place is now guarded by the soldiers. Business has taken the place of red tape, and
General Hastings has turned the freight depot into offices for his various departments, for
a system has been established which will reach all the victims, bury all the dead, discover
all the living and clean up the town. There is now a central bureau, into which reports are
turned, and the old haphazard way of doing things has been swept as clean as the sand before
us. There is General Hastings' horse standing at the steps, for the general is in the saddle
most of the time, here, there, everywhere, directing and ordering.

"Dinner! hello, dinner is ready. Now you will see how the officers at headquarters live. You
see, the table has been spread on the platform facing the railroad tracks. Ah! there is Hastings
himself--white slouch hat, white shirt, blue flannel trousers, and boots. He looks every inch
a soldier, doesn't he? There! he is beckoning to us. What do you suppose he wants. Oh! he wants
us to dine with him. Shall we? It will be plain fare, but as good as can be found. A dudish
society reporter from Philadelphia dropped into town the other morning. He met a brother reporter
from the same paper.

"'Oh!' he groaned. 'Where can I find a restaurant?'

"'Restaurant!' shrieked the other. 'Where do you think we are? Restaurant! You come with me
and I'll try to steal you a ham sandwich, and you'll be mighty lucky to get that.'

"'Oh! but I am so hungry. Can you direct me to the nearest hack stand?'

"The brother reporter turned and fled in dismay, and the society man hasn't been seen around
here since. But it illustrates the time the boys have been having getting anything to eat.
So we had better accept the general's invitation. What have we here? Oh! this is fine. You
don't mind tin plates and spoons and coffee cups, of course, especially as we have ham and
potatoes, bread and coffee for dinner. That's a right good meal; but I tell you I have eaten
enough ham to last me for a year, and when I get out of Johnstown and get back to Philadelphia
I am going to make a break for the Bellevue and eat. And there won't be any ham in that dinner,
you can bet.

A Renowned Building.

"Now, have you had enough? Then we will continue our walk along the tracks to the bridge. First
we pass the Pennsylvania Railroad passenger station. What a busy place it is! The tracks are
filled with freight cars packed with supplies, and the platform is filled with men and women
ready to take them. In this station a temporary morgue was established. It has been moved now
to the school-house, No. 4, you know, on the map. Now, as we round the curve you see it. That
is the famous building that saved so many lives--the only one left in the great barren waste
of sand. You know the water formed an eddy about it, and thus, as house after house floated
and circled about it men and women would clutch the roof and climb upon it. The water reached
half way to the ceiling on the second floor on a dead level.

"Now you can see where the two rivers come together. What a jam that was. It extended from
the fork down to the bridge--No. 10. When the flames began to demolish it the pile towered
far above the bridge. Now it is level with the water, but so thickly is it packed that the
river runs beneath it. Let us stand here on the railroad embankment at the approach to the
bridge, and watch the workmen. You notice how high the approaches are on either side, and you
can readily understand how these high banks caught the drift. The stone arches of the bridge
are low, you perceive. When the flood was at its height houses were actually swept over the
bridge. From the débris left in the river and on the sides you can imagine what an immense
dam it was that was formed, and just how it happened that the rivers turned back on themselves.
I met a woman up Stony Creek early this morning. She was laughing over the adventure she and
her children had. They floated down the creek to the bridge and then floated back again, and
were finally rescued in boats. I asked her how she could joke about it.

"'Oh!' she said, 'I am never bothered about anything. I was as cool then as I am now, and rather
enjoyed it.'

"But she wasn't very cool. She was bordering on the hysterical. She and her children are now
living with friends, for their house was completely wrecked.

A Telegraph Office.

"A good many people had experiences similar to hers before the river broke through the railroad
embankment just above the bridge here and swept tracks and everything else down upon the Cambria
Iron Works. There they are, just behind us. I will mark them on the map--No. 11. Then the flow
rushed through Cambria City, just below. That place is in a horrible condition--houses wrecked
and streets full of débris. But there is no necessity of going there. You can see all the horrors
you want right here.

"Look across the bridge, up the hill a little way. Do you see that old, tumble-down coal shed?
It is where the Western Union established its office, and in that neighborhood most of the
reporters have been living--sleeping in brick-kilns, hay lofts, tents, anywhere in fact. What
a nice time they have had of it. They have suffered as much as the flood victims.

"Phew! What a stench. It comes from the débris in the river. It is full of the dead bodies
of horses, dogs; yes, and of human beings. We hear stories occasionally of women being taken
from that mass alive. They are false, of course, but there was one instance that is authentic.
A woman was found one week after the flood still breathing. She had been caught in some miraculous
way. She was taken to Pittsburgh, where she died. I was kicking about over the débris a day
or two ago, and heard a cat mewing under the débris somewhere. I know half a dozen people who
have rescued kittens and are caring for them tenderly. A flood cat will command a premium before
long, I have no doubt.

"Ha! What's that? Yes, it is a body. The sight is so common now that people pay no attention
to it. We have been living in the midst of so much death, of so many scenes of a similar character,
that I suppose the sensibilities have become hardened to them. There, they are placing the
body on a window shutter and are carrying it up to the school-house. It will be laid on a board
placed over the tops of the children's desks. You will notice coffins piled up all about the
school-house. Of course, the body is awfully disfigured and cannot be identified. The clothing
will be described and the body hurried away to its nameless grave.

Fragment of a Bible.

"Have you enough? Then let us walk back toward headquarters and go down upon the flat into
the centre of the town. What is that you have there? A piece of a Bible? Yes, you will find
lots of leaves lying around. There is a story--I don't know how true it is--that many people
have thrown their Bibles away since the flood, declaring that their belief, after the horrors
they have witnessed, is at an end. I can hardly credit this. But there is one curious thing
that is certain, and everybody has noticed it. Books and Bibles have been found in the rubbish
all over the town, and in a great many instances they are open at some passage calling attention
to flood and disaster. I have found these myself a dozen times. It is a remarkable coincidence,
to say the least.

"Some people may find a warning in all this. I don't pretend to say, but as we walk along here
let me tell you of a conversation I had with a man who was worth nearly $20,000 before the
flood. He has lost every cent, and is glad enough to get his daily meals from the supplies
sent here.

"'I don't know what to think of Johnstown,' he said. 'We have been called a wicked place. Perhaps
all this is a judgment. Just when we have been most prosperous some calamity has come upon
us. We were never more prosperous than when this flood overwhelmed us.'

"Well here we are back at General Hastings' headquarters. Now we will go down the embankment,
cross the river and plunge ahead into town.

"Over this loose sand we will trudge and strike in by the Baltimore and Ohio depot. Now we
are in the camp of the workingmen. Here are the stalls for the horses, too. The men, you see,
live in tents. There are not as many of them as there will be; probably not over fifteen hundred
to-day, but there will be twice that to-morrow, and five thousand men will be employed here
steadily for a long time to come. Now let us jump right into Main street. It is the worst one
in town. Just see! There is the post-office, looking as if it never would be able to pull itself
out of the wreck. Across the street is the bank, with the soldiers guarding it. There, just
ahead, you see a tall brick building lifting its head out of the midst of a pile of ruins.
There is where many people were saved. The current carried scores of men, women and children
past it, and those who had strength deserted their rafts and wrecks of houses and crawled into
its windows.

"Now our progress is blocked. That immense pile of wreckage is by no means as high as it was;
but you don't want to crawl over it yet. Phew! Let's get out of this. How those piles of rubbish
do smell. You know the Board of Health says there is nothing the matter with Johnstown, but
if the Board of Health would only take the trouble to nose about a bit it might learn a thing
or two. You notice there have been grocery stores and markets around here, and you notice,
too, the pile of decaying vegetable matter from them. These are worse than the dead bodies.

Horrible Scenes.

"Are there bodies under these ruins? Lots of them. There! what do you see this minute? Those
workmen have discovered one in the ruins of the Merchants' Hotel. Poor fellow. He was pinned
by falling walls, probably. A man was found there the other day with his pockets full of money.
He had tried to save his fortune and lost his life. Near by a man was found alive after an
experience of a week in the débris. He called for water, but never drank it. His tongue was
too stiff, and he had not strength to move a muscle. He died almost as soon as he was found.

"Well, did you ever see such a mass of wreckage? It doesn't look as if there were twenty houses
fit to live in all over this flat. But a good many will be patched up after a fashion, no doubt.
And this is only one street out of several in the same condition.

"Hello! Those workmen are digging out of a cellar some barrels of whisky. That liquor will
be guarded, for the old policemen and the 'tin' deputies have been having high old times with
the liquor they have unearthed. There were formerly forty-five saloons in this town. Do you
know how many there are left? Three. That's all. One saloon-keeper found $1,700 in the ruins
of his place.

"Gracious! There is a freight car. It was caught up half a mile or more away and dumped down
in this street. And there is a piano sticking out. Hello! What have you found there? Oh, a
looking glass. Yes, you find plenty of them in the rubbish almost as good as new. A friend
of mine pulled out a glass pitcher and two goblets from that terrible mass at the bridge, and
there wasn't a crack upon them. Queer, isn't it? But so it goes. Fragile things are not injured
and stoves and iron are twisted and broken. The vagaries of this flood are many.

'I Thought You Were Dead.'

"Turn this corner. Now, will you look at that? There is a house with the back all knocked out.
The furniture has disappeared, but on the wall you see a picture hanging, and as I am alive
it is a picture of a flood. What did I tell you a little while ago? Here is a house with its
walls nearly intact. Next it is nothing but a heap of rubbish. Here is nothing but a cellar
full of débris. Next it is a wooden dwelling. A man sits on the piazza with his clothing hung
about him for an airing. And so it goes right here in the neighborhood of the main street,
but if we pull out a bit from this place we shall see that the damage is a great deal greater.
Through this break you can see the Presbyterian church. It is about ruined, but it still stands.
If you go up stairs, what do you think you will see in that cold, dark, damp room? Stretched
upon the tops of the pews are long boards, and stretched upon the boards are corpses. They
have been embalmed, and are awaiting identification. But we won't go in there. All the morgues
are alike, and we shall find another before long.

"Hark! There are two women greeting each other. Let's hear what they say.

"'Why, Eliza, I thought you were dead. How's all the folks? Are they all saved?'

"'Yes; they are all saved--all but sister and her little girl.'

"Well, that was cool, wasn't it? But you hear that on every corner. As I told you, in the presence
of so much death the sensibilities are blunted. People do not yet realize their great grief.

"There, we are safely by the main street with its dangers of pestilence, for you noticed that
it was reeking with filth and bad smells, and safely by the falling walls, for the workmen
are tearing down everything shaky. Look out, there, or you will get scorched by that huge bonfire.
They are burning all over town. Everything that the men can lift is dragged to these fires
and burned. This is the plan for clearing the town. You noticed it at the bridge and you notice
it here. Men with axes and saws are cutting timbers too big to be moved, and men with ropes
and horses and even stationary engines are pressed into service to tug at the ruins. Slowly
the débris is yielding to the flames.

An Awful Sepulchre.

"Ha! now we are getting over by the hills into what is known as the Fourth Ward. Here it is
on our map--No. 7. What a sight! Most of the bodies are taken from the ruins here. As far as
you can see there is nothing but wreckage--yes, wreckage, from which the foulest odors are
continually rising and in the midst of which countless big fires are burning. Are you not almost
discouraged at the idea of clearing so many acres up? Well, it does look like an endless task.

"There, you see that brick building? It is called the Fourth Ward School House. Do you want
to go in? Piled up at one side are coffins--little coffins, medium sized coffins, large coffins--coffins
for children, women and men. Oh! what a gloomy, horrible place. Stretched on these boards in
this dismal room--what do you see? Corpses dragged from the river and from the débris. See
how distorted and swollen are the faces. They are beyond recognition. Some have great bruises.
Some are covered with blood. Some are black. Turn your head away. Such a sight you never saw
before and pray God that you may never see it again. Nearly 250 bodies have been handled in
this school house. Outside once more for a breath of air! Oh! the delightful change. But you
are not yet away from the horrors. There is a tent in the school yard. What do you see? More
coffins. Yes, and each one has a victim. Each is ready for shipment or burial.

20,000 to be Fed.

"Let's hurry along. Here on this corner is the temporary post-office. Over there is a supply
station. There are eleven such departments now under the new management, and people are given
not only provisions but clothing. You ought to see the women coming down from the hills in
the morning for the supplies. Think of it! There are at least twenty thousand people in the
flooded district to be fed for many weeks to come. You know there has been some comment because
in the past all the money has not been used for food. I think it is a mistake. Where is charity
to cease? In my opinion, the thing to do is to clean this town up, and give the business men
and mills a chance to start up again. When this is done people can earn their own living, and
charity ceases. I am backed up in this statement by Irwin Hurrell, who is a burgess of Johnstown,
and knows everybody. Let me read you something from my note book that he said to me:

"'The people up in the hills have never had a better time. They won't work. They go around
and get all the clothing they can and fill their houses with provisions.'

Thieves and Idlers.

"The burgess speaks the exact truth. Some of these houses are packed with flour and potatoes.
The Hungarians and colored men and the 'tin' deputies, now out of a job, have been the real
thieves. They pulled trunks from the river, cut the locks and rifled them. There have been
no professional thieves here. The thieves live here. Most of the respectable people were swept
away by the flood, but nearly all the 'toughs' were left. Now if I had my way I would make
the survivors work. Some one said the other day: 'Why talk of sufferers? there are no sufferers.
They are all dead.' This is true in a great measure. It is not charity to keep in idleness
people who have lost nothing and won't work. I'd hunt them out and put them at it.

"Well, we will pass this supply depot, strike the Baltimore and Ohio track, and go up Stony
Creek a bit. Notice the long lines of freight cars loaded with supplies. On our right runs
the little river. On our left is Ward 7. I will note it as No. 8 on the map. You see there
is a little stretch of plateau and then the ground rises rapidly. See what ravages the flood
made on the plateau. The houses are wrecked and filled with mud. The local name of this place
is Hornertown. One man here had $60,000 in his house. It was wrecked. He dug away at the ruins
and found $20,000. If we followed the stream up a mile or so we would come to the Stonyvale
Cemetery. It is covered with logs and wrecks of houses. It was in one of these houses that
the body of a woman was found last Saturday. She was sitting at a table. The house had floated
here on the back water from down the river.

Red Cross Tents.

"There, I guess we have walked far enough. Here are the tents of the Red Cross Society, and
by the side of them are those of the United States engineers. The engineers have thrown a pontoon
bridge over the river, you see, to a place called Kernville. Here you are, No. 9 on our little
map. Let us cross. By George! there is an old man on the bridge I have seen before. He lost
his wife and two children in the flood, but he isn't crying for them. What bothers him most
is the loss of a clock, but in the clock was $1,600.

"You see there is nothing new in Kernville. It is the same old story. Many lives have been
lost here and the wreckage is something awful. The houses that remain are filled with mud and
the ceilings still drip with water. People seem to have lost their senses. They are apparently
paralyzed by their troubles. They sit around waiting for some one to come and clear the wreckage
away.

"Well, it is a terrible sight and we will hurry through the place and cross to Johnstown flat,
over another pontoon bridge further down. It brings us out, as you see, near the main street
again. Hello! there is a man; there is his name on the sign--Kramer, isn't it? who is getting
his grocery store open, the first in town. He was flooded, but carried some of his goods to
an upper floor and saved them. Lucky Kramer! Here is a man selling photographs on the porch
of a doctor's office. Dr. Brinkey. Oh, yes, he was drowned. His body was found last Monday.

"Well, we'll hurry by and get up to headquarters once more. It is 6 o'clock. See, the workmen
are knocking off and are going to the river to wash up. Now, out comes the baseball, for recreation
always follows work here.

"Once more on the platform of the freight station. Dusk settles down over the valley. An engine
near by begins to throb and electric lights spring up here and there. All over the town the
flames of the great bonfires leap out of the gloom. From the camps of the workmen come ribald
songs and jests, The presence of death has no effect on the living.

"The songs gradually die away and the singers drop off into a deep sleep. The town becomes
as silent as the graveyards which have been filled with its victims. Not a sound is heard save
the crackling of the flames and the challenges of the sentries to some belated newspaper man
or straggler.

"And thus another day draws to a close in ill-fated Johnstown."

CHAPTER XIX.

A Day of Work and Worship

Governor Beaver has assumed the command. He arrived in Johnstown yesterday, the 8th, and will
take personal charge of the work of clearing the town and river. For that purpose $1,000,000
from the State Treasury will be made available immediately. This action means that the State
will clear and clean the town.

It was a day of prayer but not a day of rest in Johnstown. Faith and works went hand in hand.
The flood-smitten people of the Conemaugh, though they met in the very path of the torrent
that swept their homes and families into ruin, offered up their prayers to Almighty God and
besought His divine mercy. But all through the ruin-choked city the sound of the pick and the
shovel mingled with the voice of prayer, and the challenge of the sentinel rang out above the
voice of supplication. There was no cessation in the great task the flood has left them with
its legacy of woe. Four charges of dynamite last night completed the wreck of the Catholic
Church of St. John, which had been left by the flood in a worthless but dangerous condition.

The thousands of laborers continued their work just as on any week day, except that there was
no dynamite used on the gorge and that the Cambria Iron Works were closed. There was the usual
reward of the gleaners in the harvest-field of death, fifty eight bodies having been recovered.
The most of those have been in Stony Creek, up which they were carried by the back rush of
the current after the bridge broke the first wave.

Roman Catholic services were held in the open air.

Father Smith's Exhortation.

When the mass was over and Father Troutwine, who conducted it, had retired, Father Smith stood
before them. "We have had enough of death lately," he said in a voice full of sympathy, "the
calamity that has visited us is the greatest in the history of the United States. You must
not be discouraged. Other places have been visited by disaster at times, yet we know that they
have risen again. You must not look on the fearful past. The lives of the lost cannot be restored."

Here he paused because they were weeping around him, and his own voice was broken, but continuing
with an effort, he told them to reflect for consolation upon the manner in which their friends
had gone to death. They had looked to God, he said, and wafted in prayers and acts of contrition,
their souls had left their bodies and appeared at the throne in heaven. "Surely never such
prayers fell save from the lips of saints, and the lost of the valley are saints to-day while
you mourn for them. God, who measures the acts of men by their opportunities, had pardoned
their sins. You who are left living must go to work with a will. Be men, be women. The eyes
of the world are upon you, the eyes of all civilized nature. They listen, they wait to see
what you are going to do."

Father Smith closed by telling them that the coming fast days of this week need not be observed
in the midst of such destitution as this, and they might eat without sinning any food that
would give them life and strength. When the father had finished the congregation filed slowly
out past the high pile of coffins, for St. Columba's was a morgue in the days just passed.

The Protestant Services.

Chaplain Maguire held service in the camp of the 14th to-day. His pulpit was a drygoods box
with the lid missing. It had been emptied of its freight into the wide lap of suffering. Before
him stood the blue-coated guardsmen in a deep half circle. There was a shed at his back and
a group of flood survivors, some in old clothing of their own, some in the new garments of
charity. They were for the most part members of the Methodist congregation of Johnstown to
which he had preached for three years.

"I hunted a long time yesterday for the foundations of my little home," he said, "but they
were swept away, like the dear faces of the friends who used to gather around my table. But
God doesn't own this side alone; He owns the other side too, and all is well whether we are
on this side or the other. Are your dear ones saved or lost? The only answer to that question
is found in whether they trusted in God or not. Trust in the Lord and verily ye shall dwell
in the land and be fed."

It was not a sermon. Nobody had words or voice for preaching. Others spoke briefly and prayed.
They sang, "Jesus, Lover of My Soul."

A Song in the Waters.

The shrill treble of the weeping women in the shed was almost lost in the strong bass of the
soldiers. "Cora Moses, who used to sing in our church choir, sang that beautiful hymn as she
drifted away to her death amid the wreck," said the chaplain. "She died singing it. There was
only the crash of buildings between the interruption of the song of earth and its continuation
in heaven."

Dr. Beale's Address.

Dr. Beale, whose own Presbyterian Church was one of the first morgues opened and who has lived
among dead bodies ever since is the cheeriest man in Johnstown. He made a prayer and an address.
It was all straight-from-the-shoulder kind of talk, garbed in homely phrase.

In the address he said: "I have been asked to say something about this disaster and its magnitude,
but I haven't the heart. Besides I haven't the words. If I was the biggest truth teller in
the world I could not tell the tale."

Then the preacher went hammer and tongs at the practical teachings of the flood. "That night
in Alma Hall when we thought we would all die I heard men call on God in prayer and pledge
themselves to lead better lives if life was given them. Since then I heard those same men cursing
and swearing in these streets. Brethren, there was no real prayer in any of those petitions
put up by those of godless lives that night. They were merely crying out to a higher power
for protection. They were like the death-bed fears of the infidel, for I have seen seventeen
infidels die and everyone showed the white feather. Nay, those prayers were unsanctified by
the spirit, but let us who are here now living, dedicate ourselves to the service of Almighty
God. There were those who were to be dedicated that night. I know one who, when it came, sent
his family up the staircase, and taking up his Bible from his parlor table, opened at the 46th
Psalm, first verse, and, following them, read, and the waters followed him closely. And through
the flood he read the word of God and there was peace in that house while terror was all around
it."

Mothering the Orphans.

Dr. Beale announced that Miss Walk wanted twenty-five children for the Northern Home and then
began shaking hands with his congregation and pressing on them the lessons of his sermon. "Ah,
old friend," he said, to a sandy moustached man in the grand army uniform, "You came safe out
of the flood, now give that big heart of yours to Jesus."

The Baptist congregation also held an open-air service. The unfortunate Episcopal congregation
is quite disorganized by the loss of their church and rector. They held no service, yet in
a hundred temporary houses of the homeless the beautiful old litany of the faith was read by
the devout churchmen.

The Soldiers' Sunday.

Sunday brought to the soldiers of the 14th no rest from the guard and police work which makes
the Johnstown tour of duty everything but holiday soldiering. Even those who were in camp fared
no better than those who were mounted guards over banks, stores and supply trains, or driving
unwilling Italians to work down at Cambria City. There was no shade nor a blade of grass in
sight. The wreck of the city was all their scenery, and the sun beat down upon their tents
till they were like ovens. They policed the camp thoroughly, sweeping the bare ground until
it was as clean as a Dutch kitchen. The boys had heard that Chaplain Maguire was to preach
and they didn't leave a straw or a chip in his way.

A Young Guardsman's Suicide.

A sun-browned young soldier of C Company, 14th Regiment, sat on the river bank in front of
the camp this afternoon and watched across the valley the fire-scarred tower of the Catholic
Church, blown to complete ruin under the force of dynamite. After the front had sunk into a
brick heap, he arose, looked down once at the sunny river and the groups of many soldiers doing
there week's washing at the foot of the bank, and then strode slowly to his tent. A moment
later there seemed to be a lingering echo of the fall of the tower in C Company's street. Captain
Nesbitt, dozing in his quarters, heard the sound, and running in the direction of it found
that Private William B. Young, aged 28, of Oakdale, had placed the muzzle of his rifle against
his left temple and gone to swell by one the interminable list of the Conemaugh Valley's dead.

Despondency, caused by a slight illness and doubtless intensified by a night's guard duty among
the gloomy ruins, is the only known cause of the soldier's act. He had been somewhat blue for
a day, but there seemed to be no special weight upon his mind. His brother-in-law, private
Stimmler, of the same company, said that he was always despondent when ill, but had never threatened
or attempted his life. He was a farmhand, and leaves a wife and two children.

The Dinner "Shad" Jones Cooked.

The Sunday dinner was a great success. The bill of fare was vegetable soup, cold ham, beans,
canned corn, pickled tripe and black coffee. It is worthy of note that the table in the officers'
quarters did not have a delicacy upon it which was not shared by the men. The commissary ran
short and had to borrow from the workmen's supplies. The dinner to-day was cooked by "Shad"
Jones, a colored man known to every traveling man who has ever stopped at Johnstown for his
ability to hold four eggs in his mouth and swallow a drink of water without cracking a shell.
He lost his wife in the flood and the 14th has adopted him.

On this, the ninth day, the waters began to give up their dead. Stony Creek first showed their
white faces and lifeless bodies floating on the surface, and men in skiffs went after them
with their grappling rods. Several of them were taken ashore during the afternoon and carried
to the Presbyterian Church morgue, which was the nearest. Then, too, the dead among the wreckage
on shore came to light just the same as on other days. Their exhumation excites no notice here
now. Dr. Beale, keeper of the records of morgues, counted the numbers on his finger tips and
said there were more than fifty found to-day in Johnstown alone.

In one dead man's pocket was $3,133.62. He was Christopher Kimble, an undertaker and finisher,
who, when he saw the water coming, rushed down stairs to the safe to save his gold and there
he was lost. Several bodies were taken from the human raft burned beyond all recognition.

The body of Miss Bessie Bryan, the young Philadelphian, was identified to-day as it lay in
a coffin by a grave from which it had been exhumed in Grand View Cemetery. "Returning home
from a wedding in Pittsburgh with her friend, Miss Paulsen, caught by the flood on the day
express, found dead and buried twice," will be the brief record of her wild sad fate.

Whiskey and Rioting.

Lieutenant Wright, Company I, with a detail of ninety-eight men, was called to the banks of
Stony Creek over the raft to-night, to protect the employees of the Philadelphia Gas Company.
There they found a gang of rioters. The rioters this afternoon found a barrel of whiskey in
the field of débris, and before the militia could destroy it they had managed to take a large
quantity of it up on the mountain. To-night they came down to the camp intoxicated, attacked
the cook, cleared the supper table and were managing things with a high hand when a messenger
was despatched for the guard. Before Lieutenant Wright's men reached there they had escaped.
The Beaver Falls gang was surprised this afternoon by the militia, and gallons of whiskey,
which they had hidden, were destroyed. A dozen saloons were swept into the creek at the bridge,
and it is supposed that a hundred or more barrels are buried beneath the raft.

Among the most interesting relics of the flood is a small gold locket found in the ruins of
the Hurlbut house yesterday. The locket contains a small coil of dark brown hair, and has engraved
on the inside the following remarkable lines: "Lock of George Washington's hair, cut in Philadelphia
while on his way to Yorktown, 1781." Mr. Benford, one of the proprietors of the house, states
that the locket was the property of his sister, who was lost in the flood, and was presented
to her by an old lady in Philadelphia, whose mother and herself cut the hair from the head
of the "Father of His Country."

CHAPTER XX.

Millions of Money for Johnstown.

Never before in our country has there been such a magnificent exhibition of public sympathy
and practical charity. As the occasion was the most urgent ever known, so the response has
been the greatest. All classes have come to the rescue with a generosity, a thoughtfulness
and heartfelt pity sufficient to convince the most stubborn misanthrope that religion is not
dead and charity has not, like the fabled gods of Greece, forsaken the earth.

The following lines, cut from one of our popular journals, aptly represents the public feeling,
and the warm sympathy that moved every heart:

  I.

  I stood with a mournful throng
    On the brink of a gloomy grave,
  In a valley where grief had found relief
    On the breast of an angry wave!
  I heard a tearful song
    That told of an orphan's love--
  'Twas a song of woe from the valley below,
    To the Father of Heaven above!

  II.

  'Twas the wail of two lonely waifs--
    Two children who prayed for bread!
  'Twas a pitiful cry--a mournful sigh--
    From the home of the silent dead!
  'Twas a sad and soulful strain;
    It made the teardrops start;
  'Twas an echo of pain--a weird refrain--
    And a song that touched my heart.

  III.

  Poor, fatherless, motherless waifs,
    Come, dry your tearful eyes!
  Not in vain, not in vain, have ye sung your refrain;
    It's echo has pierced the skies!
  The angels are watching you there,
    For your "home" is now above,
  And your Father is He who forever shall be
    A Father of infinite love!

  IV.

  Blest be the noble throng,
    With generous impulse stirred,
  Who are bringing relief to the Valley of Grief,
    Where the orphan's song was heard!
  Peace to them while they live,
    Peace when their souls depart,
  For a friend in need is a friend indeed
    And a friend that reaches my heart!

Among the first to start a fund for the sufferers was the New York Herald. The following is
a specimen of the announcement made by that journal from day to day:

Great interest is being taken in the Herald fund for the Johnstown sufferers. In the city,
employees of all sorts of business houses, and of railroad, steamboat and other companies,
are striving to see who can collect the most money.

In the country, ministers, little girls, school children and busy workers are all collecting
for the fund. It is being boomed by rich and poor, far and near.

With the checks for hundreds of dollars yesterday came this note, enclosing a dime:

"NEW YORK, June 8, 1889.

"MR. EDITOR:

"I am a little orphan girl. I saved ten cents, it is all I have, but I should like to send
it to the sufferers of the flood.

"ANNIE ABEL."

Another letter written in a lady's hand read this way:

"BROOKYN.

"DEAR HERALD:--

"Enclosed please find $1.17 left by little Hame Buckler in his purse when he died last September.
Also twenty-five cents from Albert Buckler and twenty-five cents from Paul D. Buckler. Hoping
their mites will help to feed or clothe some little ones, I am, with sympathy for the sufferers,

"S.A.B."

Felix Simonson, a twelve-year-old schoolboy, took it into his head on Friday to go among his
friends and get help for the sufferers. Here is what he wrote on the top of his subscription paper:

"I am very sorry for the poor people who have lost everything by the flood, and I am trying
to collect some money to send to them. Would you like to give something to help them?"

How Felix succeded is shown by a collection of $30.15 the first day.

A large amount of clothing for men, women and children is being sent to the Herald office,
as well as liberal contributions of money.

The same story was, in effect, repeated from day to day. It only indicated what was going on
throughout the country; in fact, throughout the world. London, Paris, and other European towns,
were only a few hours behind our American cities in starting funds for relief. The enthusiasm
with which these responses were made is indicated by the following from one of the New York
dailies:

Charity Running Rampant.

Everybody's business seems to be raising funds for Pennsylvania. The Mayor's office has been
transformed into a counting room. More than a dozen clerks are employed in acknowledging the
receipt of money for the Pennsylvania sufferers. A large number, many of them of the poorer
class, bring their own contributions. Up to noon $145,257.18 had been subscribed. This does
not include sums subscribed but not paid in. All the city departments are expected to respond
nobly.

The Executive Committee of the Conemaugh Valley Relief Association met in the Governor's room
at the City Hall yesterday, with General W.T. Sherman in the chair. Treasurer J. Edward Simmons
announced that the fund in the Fourth National Bank amounted to $145,000 and that Governor
Beaver's draft for $50,000 had been honored. John T. Crimmins reported that more than $70,000
had been received at the Mayor's office during the morning. He also reported that the Leake
and Watts Orphan Asylum had offered, through the Rev. Dr. Morgan Dix, to take twenty-five of
Johnstown's orphans, between the ages of five and twelve, and care for them until they were
sixteen and then provide them with homes. H.C. Miner reported that many packages of clothing
had been sent to Johnstown and that the theatrical guild was arranging for benefit performances.

Under date of Paris, June 5th, the following despatch conveyed intelligence of the gratifying
response of Americans in that city:

Duty Nobly Done.

A meeting of Americans was held to-day at the United States Legation on a call in the morning
papers by Mr. Whitelaw Reid, the United States Minister, to express the sympathy of the Americans
in Paris with the sufferers by the Johnstown calamity. In spite of the short notice the rooms
of the Legation were densely packed, and many went away unable to gain admittance. Mr. Reid
was called to the chair and Mr. Ernest Lambert was appointed secretary. The following resolutions
were offered by Mr. Andrew Carnegie and seconded by Mr. James N. Otis:

A Sympathetic Message.

"Resolved, That we send across the Atlantic to our brethren overwhelmed by the appalling disaster
at Johnstown our most profound and heartfelt sympathy. Over their lost ones we mourn with them,
and in every pang of all their misery we have our part.

"Resolved, That as American citizens we congratulate them upon and thank them for the numerous
acts of noble heroism displayed under circumstances calculated to unnerve the bravest. Especially
do we honor and admire them for the capacity shown for local self-government upon which the
stability of republican institutions depends, the military organizations sent from distant
points to preserve order during the chaos that supervened having been returned to their homes
as no longer required within forty-eight hours of the calamity. In these few hours the civil
power recreated and asserted itself and resumed sway without the aid of counsel from distant
authorities, but solely by and from the inherent power which remains in the people of Johnstown
themselves."

Brief and touching speeches were made by General Layton, late United States Minister to Austria;
Mr. Abram S. Hewitt, General Meredith Read and others.

A Flow of Dollars.

The resolutions were then unanimously adopted and a committee was appointed to receive subscriptions.
About 40,000f. were subscribed on the spot. The American bankers all agreed to open subscriptions
the next day at their banking houses. "Buffalo Bill" subscribed the entire receipts of one
entertainment to be given under the auspices of the committee.

As a sequel to the foregoing the following will be of interest to the reader:

NEW YORK, June 17.--John Monroe & Co. have received cable instructions from United States Minister
Reid, at Paris, to pay Messrs. Drexel & Co., of Philadelphia, an additional sum of $2,266,
received from the Treasurer of the Paris Johnstown Relief Committee. Of this sum $1066 are
the proceeds of a special performance by the Wild West show, and with the previous contribution
from Paris makes a total of $14,166.

The pathetic story of sympathy and generous aid from every town and hamlet in the land can
never be told; there is too much of it.

Philadelphia alone contributed over a million dollars, and New York showed equal generosity.
In Philadelphia it was not uncommon to see glass jars in front of stores and at other places
to receive contributions from passers-by. In one of these an unknown man deposited $500 one
day; this is indicative of the feeling pervading the whole community that stricken Johnstown
must not suffer for houses, clothing, nor bread.

So rapidly did gifts pour in that within eight days after the disaster the following statement
was made from Harrisburg:

The Governor's fund for the relief of the survivors of the flood in the Conemaugh Valley and
other portions of the State is assuming large proportions and the disposition to contribute
appears to be on the increase. To-day letters and telegrams were received requesting the Governor
to draw for $68,000 additional, swelling the aggregate sum at his disposal to about $3,000,000.
Many of the remittances are accompanied with statements that more may be expected. Governor
Beaver telegraphed as follows from Johnstown:

"The situation is simply indescribable. The people have turned in with courage and heroism
unparalleled. A decided impression has been made on the débris. The next week will do more,
as they have many points opened for work. Everything is very quiet. People are returning to
work again and gaining courage and hope as they return. There need be no fear of too much being
contributed for the relief of the people. There is a long, steady pull ahead requiring every
effort and determination on the part of the people here, which is already assured, and the
continued systematic support and benefactions of this generous people."

Feeding the Hungry.

Three car loads of tents, enough to accommodate four thousand people, were sent to Johnstown
to-day from the State arsenal at the request of General Hastings.

The following special dispatch bears date of June 5th:

Car loads of provisions and clothing are arriving hourly and being distributed. The cynic who
said that charity and gratitude were articles seldom to be met with in Republics and among
corporations would have had ample reason afforded him to-day to alter his warped philosophy
several degrees had he been in this erstwhile town and seen train after train hourly rolling
in, on both the Baltimore and Ohio and the Pennsylvania railroads, laden with clothing and
provisions from every point of the compass. Each train bore messengers sent especially to distribute
funds and provisions and clothing, volunteer physicians in large numbers, trained nurses and
a corps of surgeons equipped with all needed instruments and medicines. Fortunately the latter
are not needed.

Philadelphia's quota consists of clothes, boots, shoes, cotton sheeting, hard breads, salt
fish, canned goods, etc., all of which will be gratefully received and supply the most pressing
needs of the stricken people.

Relief Systematized.

The relief work has been so systematized that there is no danger of any confusion. At the several
distributing depots hundreds assemble morning, noon and night, and, forming in line, are supplied
with provisions. Men and women with families are given bread, butter, cheese, ham and canned
meats, tea or coffee and sugar, and unmarried applicants sliced bread and butter or sandwiches.

The 900 army tents brought on by Adjutant-General Axline, of Ohio, have been divided, and two
white-walled villages now afford shelter to nearly six thousand homeless people.

At the Main Commissary.

At the Johnstown station, on the east side of the river, everything is quiet, and considerable
work is being done. This is the chief commissary station, and this morning by two o'clock 15,000
people were fed and about six hundred families were furnished with provisions. Five carloads
of clothing were distributed, and now almost every one is provided with clothing.

The good work done by the relief committees in caring for the destitute can never be fully
told. It was ready, generous and very successful.

The scenes at the distributing points through the week have been most interesting. Monday and
Tuesday saw lines of men, women and children in the scantiest of clothing, blue with cold,
unwashed and dishevelled, so pitifully destitute a company as one would wish to see. Since
the clothing cars have come the people have assumed a more presentable appearance and food
has brought life back to them and warmth, but their condition is still pitiful. The destitute
ones are almost altogether from the well-to-do people of Johnstown, who have lost all and are
as poor as the poorest.

Altoona to the Rescue.

Altoona has been so hemmed in by floods and the like, and her representatives have been so
busy, that they had but little to say of the prompt action and excellent work done by open-handed
citizens of that beautiful interior Pennsylvania city. Altoona first became alarmed by the
non-arrival and reported loss of the day express east on the Pennsylvania Railroad Friday afternoon.
Soon the station was thronged with an anxious crowd, and the excitement became intense as the
scant news came slowly in. Saturday the anxiety was relieved by a telegram from Ebensburg,
which a blundering telegraph operator made "three hundred lost," instead of "three thousand."
That was soon corrected by later news, and the citizens immediately were called upon to meet
for action. The Mayor presided, and at once $2,600 was subscribed and provisions offered. By
three o'clock that afternoon a car had been loaded and started for Ebensburg, thirty-two miles
away in charge of a committee. At Ebensburg that evening ten teams were secured after much
trouble and the supplies sent overland seventeen miles to the desolated valley. The night was
an awful one for the committee in charge. The roads were badly washed and all but impassible.
The hours dragged on. At last, Sunday morning, the wagons drove into desolate Conemaugh. There
were no cheers to greet them, no cries of pleasure. The wretched sufferers were too wretched,
too dazed for that. They simply crowded around the wagons, pitifully begging for bread or anything
to eat.

The committee report: "Impostors have not bothered us much, and, singular enough, the ones
that have were chiefly women, though to-day we sent away a man who we thought came too frequently.
On questioning he owned up to having fifteen sacks of flour and five hams in his house. On
Tuesday we began to keep a record of those who received supplies, and we have given out supplies
to fully 550 families, representing 2,500 homeless people. Our district is only for one side
of the river. On the other is a commissary on Adams street, near the Baltimore and Ohio Railway
station, another at Kernville, a third at Cambria City, a fourth at Morrellville and a fifth
at Cambria. The people are very patient, though, of course, in their present condition they
are apt to be querelous.

Wanted A Better Dress.

"One woman who came for a dress indignantly refused the one I offered her. 'I don't want that,'
she said. 'I lost one that cost me $20, $15 for the cloth and $5 for making, and I want a $20
dress. You said you would make our losses good;' and she did not take the dress.

"A clergyman came to me and begged for anything in the shape of foot covering. I had nothing
to give him. Men stand about ready to work, but barefooted. The clothing since the first day
or two, when we got only worn stuff, fit only for bandages, has been good, and is now of excellent
quality. Most of the children's garments are outgrown clothes, good for much service. Pittsburgh
has sent from thirty to forty car loads of supplies, all of good quality and available, and
in charge of local commissary men who had sense enough to go home when they turned over their
supplies and did not stay and eat up the provisions they brought.

Ohio's Timely Work.

"But above all, I want to praise the supplies sent by the Ohio people in Cleveland and Columbus.
These cities forwarded eight cars each. These were stocked with beautiful stuff, wisely chosen,
and were in charge of Adjutant General Axline, sent by Governor Foraker, who worked like a
wise man."

Grave Mental Conditions. Indeed the evidence of systemic disturbance is so marked in almost
every individual who was present at the time of the catastrophe that it is possible with the
eye alone to separate the residents from those outside.

Everything required in the way of surgical appliances seem to be on hand, but medicines are
scarce, and will probably be needed more in the next few days than heretofore.

A fact in favor of the controlling of any malady is to be found in the very general exodus
of the town's people, who crowd the platforms of departing trains. There can be no doubt that
this movement should be encouraged to the greatest possible extent, and it would be well if
places away from Johnstown, at no too great distance, could be opened for the reception of
those who, while not entirely disabled, are useless at home. The scarcity of pure spring water
which is not tainted by dead animal matter is a pressing evil for consideration, but we doubt
if this is as important a fact at Johnstown as it is further down the river, owing to the large
amount of decomposing flesh in the water at this latter point. No disinfectant can reach such
a cause of disease save the action of the large volume of water which dilutes all poisonous
materials.

The Torch for Safety.

There is a strong movement on foot in favor of applying the torch to the wrecked buildings
in Johnstown, and although the suggestion meets with strong opposition at this time, there
is little doubt the ultimate solution of existing difficulties will be by this method. An army
of men have been for two days employed in clearing up the wreck in the city proper, and although
hundreds of bodies have been discovered, not one-fifth of the ground has yet been gone over.
In many places the rubbish is piled twenty or thirty feet high, and not infrequently these
great drifts cover an area of nearly an acre. Narrow passages have been cut through in every
direction, but the herculean labor of removing the rubbish has yet hardly begun.

At a meeting of the Central Relief Committee this afternoon General Hastings suggested the
advisability of drawing a cordon around the few houses that are not in ruins and applying the
torch to the remaining great sea of waste. He explained briefly the great work yet to be accomplished
if it were hoped to thoroughly overhaul every portion of the débris, and insisted that it would
take 5,000 men to complete the task. Of the hundreds of bodies buried beneath the rubbish,
sand and stones, the skeleton or putrid remains of many was all that could be hoped to be recovered.

A motion was made that after forty-eight hours' further search the débris of the city be consumed
by fire, the engines to be on hand to play upon any valuable building that despite previous
precautions, might become ignited by the general conflagration. This motion was debated pro
and con for nearly half an hour. Those whose relatives or friends still rest beneath the wreck
remonstrated strongly against any such summary action. They insisted that all the talk of threatened
epidemic was only the sensation gossip of fertile brains and that the search for the bodies
should only be abandoned as a last extremity. The physicians in attendance warned the committee
that the further exposure of putrid bodies in the valley could have but one result--the typhus
or some other epidemic equally fatal to its victims. It was a question whether the living should
be sacrificed to the dead, or whether the sway of sentiment or the mandate of science should
be the ruling impulse. Although the proposition to burn the wreck was defeated, it was evident
that the movement was gaining many adherents, and the result will doubtless be that in a few
days the torch will be applied, not only to the field of waste in Johnstown, but also to the
avalanche of débris that chokes the stream above the Pennsylvania bridge.