"Do I dream?" cried Candide; "am I awake? or am I on board a galley? Is this the Baron whom
I killed? Is this Master Pangloss whom I saw hanged?"

"It is we! it is we!" answered they.

"Well! is this the great philosopher?" said Martin.

"Ah! captain," said Candide, "what ransom will you take for Monsieur de Thunder-ten-Tronckh,
one of the first barons of the empire, and for Monsieur Pangloss, the profoundest metaphysician
in Germany?"

"Dog of a Christian," answered the Levantine captain, "since these two dogs of Christian slaves
are barons and metaphysicians, which I doubt not are high dignities in their country, you shall
give me fifty thousand sequins."

"You shall have them, sir. Carry me back at once to Constantinople, and you shall receive the
money directly. But no; carry me first to Miss Cunegonde."

Upon the first proposal made by Candide, however, the Levantine captain had already tacked
about, and made the crew ply their oars quicker than a bird cleaves the air.

Candide embraced the Baron and Pangloss a hundred times.

"And how happened it, my dear Baron, that I did not kill you? And, my dear Pangloss, how came
you to life again after being hanged? And why are you both in a Turkish galley?"

"And it is true that my dear sister is in this country?" said the Baron.

"Yes," answered Cacambo.

"Then I behold, once more, my dear Candide," cried Pangloss.

Candide presented Martin and Cacambo to them; they embraced each other, and all spoke at once.
The galley flew; they were already in the port. Instantly Candide sent for a Jew, to whom he
sold for fifty thousand sequins a diamond worth a hundred thousand, though the fellow swore
to him by Abraham that he could give him no more. He immediately paid the ransom for the Baron
and Pangloss. The latter threw himself at the feet of his deliverer, and bathed them with his
tears; the former thanked him with a nod, and promised to return him the money on the first
opportunity.

"But is it indeed possible that my sister can be in Turkey?" said he.

"Nothing is more possible," said Cacambo, "since she scours the dishes in the service of a
Transylvanian prince."

Candide sent directly for two Jews and sold them some more diamonds, and then they all set
out together in another galley to deliver Cunegonde from slavery.

XXVIII

WHAT HAPPENED TO CANDIDE, CUNEGONDE, PANGLOSS, MARTIN, ETC.

"I ask your pardon once more," said Candide to the Baron, "your pardon, reverend father, for
having run you through the body."

"Say no more about it," answered the Baron. "I was a little too hasty, I own, but since you
wish to know by what fatality I came to be a galley-slave I will inform you. After I had been
cured by the surgeon of the college of the wound you gave me, I was attacked and carried off
by a party of Spanish troops, who confined me in prison at Buenos Ayres at the very time my
sister was setting out thence. I asked leave to return to Rome to the General of my Order.
I was appointed chaplain to the French Ambassador at Constantinople. I had not been eight days
in this employment when one evening I met with a young Ichoglan, who was a very handsome fellow.
The weather was warm. The young man wanted to bathe, and I took this opportunity of bathing
also. I did not know that it was a capital crime for a Christian to be found naked with a young
Mussulman. A cadi ordered me a hundred blows on the soles of the feet, and condemned me to
the galleys. I do not think there ever was a greater act of injustice. But I should be glad
to know how my sister came to be scullion to a Transylvanian prince who has taken shelter among
the Turks."

"But you, my dear Pangloss," said Candide, "how can it be that I behold you again?"

"It is true," said Pangloss, "that you saw me hanged. I should have been burnt, but you may
remember it rained exceedingly hard when they were going to roast me; the storm was so violent
that they despaired of lighting the fire, so I was hanged because they could do no better.
A surgeon purchased my body, carried me home, and dissected me. He began with making a crucial
incision on me from the navel to the clavicula. One could not have been worse hanged than I
was. The executioner of the Holy Inquisition was a sub-deacon, and knew how to burn people
marvellously well, but he was not accustomed to hanging. The cord was wet and did not slip
properly, and besides it was badly tied; in short, I still drew my breath, when the crucial
incision made me give such a frightful scream that my surgeon fell flat upon his back, and
imagining that he had been dissecting the devil he ran away, dying with fear, and fell down
the staircase in his flight. His wife, hearing the noise, flew from the next room. She saw
me stretched out upon the table with my crucial incision. She was seized with yet greater fear
than her husband, fled, and tumbled over him. When they came to themselves a little, I heard
the wife say to her husband: 'My dear, how could you take it into your head to dissect a heretic?
Do you not know that these people always have the devil in their bodies? I will go and fetch
a priest this minute to exorcise him.' At this proposal I shuddered, and mustering up what
little courage I had still remaining I cried out aloud, 'Have mercy on me!' At length the Portuguese
barber plucked up his spirits. He sewed up my wounds; his wife even nursed me. I was upon my
legs at the end of fifteen days. The barber found me a place as lackey to a knight of Malta
who was going to Venice, but finding that my master had no money to pay me my wages I entered
the service of a Venetian merchant, and went with him to Constantinople. One day I took it
into my head to step into a mosque, where I saw an old Iman and a very pretty young devotee
who was saying her paternosters. Her bosom was uncovered, and between her breasts she had a
beautiful bouquet of tulips, roses, anemones, ranunculus, hyacinths, and auriculas. She dropped
her bouquet; I picked it up, and presented it to her with a profound reverence. I was so long
in delivering it that the Iman began to get angry, and seeing that I was a Christian he called
out for help. They carried me before the cadi, who ordered me a hundred lashes on the soles
of the feet and sent me to the galleys. I was chained to the very same galley and the same
bench as the young Baron. On board this galley there were four young men from Marseilles, five
Neapolitan priests, and two monks from Corfu, who told us similar adventures happened daily.
The Baron maintained that he had suffered greater injustice than I, and I insisted that it
was far more innocent to take up a bouquet and place it again on a woman's bosom than to be
found stark naked with an Ichoglan. We were continually disputing, and received twenty lashes
with a bull's pizzle when the concatenation of universal events brought you to our galley,
and you were good enough to ransom us."

"Well, my dear Pangloss," said Candide to him, "when you had been hanged, dissected, whipped,
and were tugging at the oar, did you always think that everything happens for the best?"

"I am still of my first opinion," answered Pangloss, "for I am a philosopher and I cannot retract,
especially as Leibnitz could never be wrong; and besides, the pre-established harmony is the
finest thing in the world, and so is his plenum and materia subtilis."

XXIX

HOW CANDIDE FOUND CUNEGONDE AND THE OLD WOMAN AGAIN.

