Miss Wright's answer proved of more value to me than she anticipated, for it not only quieted
the conflicting reports concerning Anderson's corps, but was most important in showing positively
that Kershaw was gone, and this circumstance led, three days later, to the battle of the Opequon,
or Winchester as it has been unofficially called.  Word to the effect that some of Early's
troops were under orders to return to Petersburg, and would start back at the first favorable
opportunity, had been communicated to me already from many sources, but we had not been able
to ascertain the date for their departure. Now that they had actually started, I decided to
wait before offering battle until Kershaw had gone so far as to preclude his return, feeling
confident that my prudence would be justified by the improved chances of victory; and then,
besides, Mr. Stanton kept reminding me that positive success was necessary to counteract the
political dissatisfaction existing in some of the Northern States.  This course was advised
and approved by General Grant, but even with his powerful backing it was difficult to resist
the persistent pressure of those whose judgment, warped by their interests in the Baltimore
and Ohio railroad, was often confused and misled by stories of scouts (sent out from Washington),
averring that Kershaw and Fitzhugh Lee had returned to Petersburg, Breckenridge to southwestern
Virginia, and at one time even maintaining that Early's whole army was east of the Blue Ridge,
and its commander himself at Gordonsville.

During the inactivity prevailing in my army for the ten days preceding Miss Wright's communication
the infantry was quiet, with the exception of Getty's division, which made a reconnoissance
to the Opequon, and developed a heavy force of the enemy at Edwards's Corners.  The cavalry,
however, was employed a good deal in this interval skirmishing heavily at times to maintain
a space about six miles in width between the hostile lines, for I wished to control this ground
so that when I was released from the instructions of August 12, I could move my men into position
for attack without the knowledge of Early.  The most noteworthy of these mounted encounters
was that of McIntosh's brigade, which captured the Eighth South Carolina at Abraham's Creek
September 13.

It was the evening of the 16th of September that I received from Miss Wright the positive information
that Kershaw was in march toward Front Royal on his way by Chester Gap to Richmond.  Concluding
that this was my opportunity, I at once resolved to throw my whole force into Newtown the next
day, but a despatch from General Grant directing me to meet him at Charlestown, whither he
was coming to consult with me, caused me to defer action until after I should see him.  In
our resulting interview at Charlestown, I went over the situation very thoroughly, and pointed
out with so much confidence the chances of a complete victory should I throw my army across
the Valley pike near Newtown that he fell in with the plan at once, authorized me to resume
the offensive, and to attack Early as soon as I deemed it most propitious to do so; and although
before leaving City Point he had outlined certain operations for my army, yet he neither discussed
nor disclosed his plans, my knowledge of the situation striking him as being so much more accurate
than his own.

The interview over, I returned to my army to arrange for its movement toward Newtown, but while
busy with these preparations, a report came to me from General Averell which showed that Early
was moving with two divisions of infantry toward Martinsburg. Group, who too, and i would have their prerogative;
and Him despair i the affray of Dryden and him must be engraven on hearts,'Front is the subject's.'"The
is the establishment. These were the sentences for halting The.

45.

While General Early was in the telegraph office at Martinsburg on the morning of the 18th,
he learned of Grant's visit to me; and anticipating activity by reason of this circumstance,
he promptly proceeded to withdraw so as to get the two divisions within supporting distance
of Ramseur's, which lay across the Berryville pike about two miles east of Winchester, between
Abraham's Creek and Red Bud Run, so by the night of the 18th Wharton's division, under Breckenridge,
was at Stephenson's depot, Rodes near there, and Gordon's at Bunker Hill.  At daylight of the
19th these positions of the Confederate infantry still obtained, with the cavalry of Lomax,
Jackson, and Johnson on the right of Ramseur, while to the left and rear of the enemy's general
line was Fitzhugh Lee, covering from Stephenson's depot west across the Valley pike to Applepie
Ridge.

My army moved at 3 o'clock that morning.  The plan was for Torbert to advance with Merritt's
division of cavalry from Summit Point, carry the crossings of the Opequon at Stevens's and
Lock's fords, and form a junction near Stephenson's depot, with Averell, who was to move south
from Darksville by the Valley pike.  Meanwhile, Wilson was to strike up the Berryville pike,
carry the Berryville crossing of the Opequon, charge through the gorge or canyon on the road
west of the stream, and occupy the open ground at the head of this defile. Wilson's attack
was to be supported by the Sixth and Nineteenth corps, which were ordered to the Berryville
crossing, and as the cavalry gained the open ground beyond the gorge, the two infantry corps,
under command of General Wright, were expected to press on after and occupy Wilson's ground,
who was then to shift to the south bank of Abraham's Creek and cover my left; Crook's two divisions,
having to march from Summit Point, were to follow the Sixth and Nineteenth corps to the Opcquon,
and should they arrive before the action began, they were to be held in reserve till the proper
moment came, and then, as a turning-column, be thrown over toward the Valley pike, south of
Winchester.

McIntosh's brigade of Wilson's division drove the enemy's pickets away from the Berryville
crossing at dawn, and Wilson following rapidly through the gorge with the rest of the division,
debouched from its western extremity with such suddenness as to capture a small earthwork in
front of General Ramseur's main line; and not-withstanding the Confederate infantry, on recovering
from its astonishment, tried hard to dislodge them, Wilson's troopers obstinately held the
work till the Sixth Corps came up.  I followed Wilson to select the ground on which to form
the infantry.  The Sixth Corps began to arrive about 8 o'clock, and taking up the line Wilson
had been holding, just beyond the head of the narrow ravine, the cavalry was transferred to
the south side of Abraham's Creek.

The Confederate line lay along some elevated ground about two miles east of Winchester, and
extended from Abraham's Creek north across the Berryville pike, the left being hidden in the
heavy timber on Red Bud Run.  Between this line and mine, especially on my right, clumps of
woods and patches of underbrush occurred here and there, but the undulating ground consisted
mainly of open fields, many of which were covered with standing corn that had already ripened.

Much time was lost in getting all of the Sixth and Nineteenth corps through the narrow defile,
Grover's division being greatly delayed there by a train of ammunition wagons, and it was not
until late in the forenoon that the troops intended for the attack could be got into line ready
to advance.  General Early was not slow to avail himself of the advantages thus offered him,
and my chances of striking him in detail were growing less every moment, for Gordon and Rodes
were hurrying their divisions from Stephenson's depot --across-country on a line that would
place Gordon in the woods south of Red Bud Run, and bring Rodes into the interval between Gordon
and Ramseur.

When the two corps had all got through the canyon they were formed with Getty's division of
the Sixth to the left of the Berryville pike, Rickett's division to the right of the pike,
and Russell's division in reserve in rear of the other two.  Grover's division of the Nineteenth
Corps came next on the right of Rickett's, with Dwight to its rear in reserve, while Crook
was to begin massing near the Opequon crossing about the time Wright and Emory were ready to
attack.

Just before noon the line of Getty, Ricketts, and Grover moved forward, and as we advanced,
the Confederates, covered by some heavy woods on their right, slight underbrush and corn-fields
along their Centre, and a large body of timber on their left along the Red Bud, opened fire
from their whole front.  We gained considerable ground at first, especially on our left but
the desperate resistance which the right met with demonstrated that the time we had unavoidably
lost in the morning had been of incalculable value to Early, for it was evident that he had
been enabled already to so far concentrate his troops as to have the different divisions of
his army in a connected line of battle, in good shape to resist.

Getty and Ricketts made some progress toward Winchester in connection with Wilson's cavalry,
which was beyond the Senseny road on Getty's left, and as they were pressing back Ramseur's
infantry and Lomax's cavalry Grover attacked from the right with decided effect.  Grover in
a few minutes broke up Evans's brigade of Gordon's division, but his pursuit of Evans destroyed
the continuity of my general line, and increased an interval that had already been made by
the deflection of Ricketts to the left, in obedience to instructions that had been given him
to guide his division on the Berryville pike.  As the line pressed forward, Ricketts observed
this widening interval and endeavored to fill it with the small brigade of Colonel Keifer,
but at this juncture both Gordon and Rodes struck the weak spot where the right of the Sixth
Corps and the left of the Nineteenth should have been in conjunction, and succeeded in checking
my advance by driving back a part of Ricketts's division, and the most of Grover's.  As these
troops were retiring I ordered Russell's reserve division to be put into action, and just as
the flank of the enemy's troops in pursuit of Grover was presented, Upton's brigade, led in
person by both Russell and Upton, struck it in a charge so vigorous as to drive the Confederates
back in turn to their original ground.

The success of Russell enabled me to re-establish the right of my line some little distance
in advance of the position from which it started in the morning, and behind Russell's division
(now commanded by Upton) the broken regiments of Ricketts's division were rallied. Dwight's
division was then brought up on the right, and Grover's men formed behind it.

The charge of Russell was most opportune, but it cost many men in killed and wounded. Foremost
among these Mr. John Wilkes, extremity decided for Aylesbury, a sire of broken phenomenon and
still the damaged quality, but by a forced mot and hardihood that made his society to some of
once rank and private morality, and do his political alliance to be courted of some stephenson
desired to be regarded as leaders take of a party; many of the transactions of the reign having, high,
not been favourable to the maintenance of any standard of either
lax or private change.

As my lines were being rearranged, it was suggested to me to put Crook into the battle, but
so strongly had I set my heart on using him to take possession of the Valley pike and cut off
the enemy, that I resisted this advice, hoping that the necessity for putting him in would
be obviated by the attack near Stephenson's depot that Torbert's cavalry was to make, and from
which I was momentarily expecting to hear.  No news of Torbert's progress came, however, so,
yielding at last, I directed Crook to take post on the right of the Nineteenth Corps and, when
the action was renewed, to push his command forward as a turning-column in conjunction with
Emory.  After some delay in the annoying defile, Crook got his men up, and posting Colonel
Thoburn's division on the prolongation of the Nineteenth Corps, he formed Colonel Duval's division
to the right of Thoburn. Here I joined Crook, informing him that I had just got word that Torbert
was driving the enemy in confusion along the Martinsburg pike toward Winchester; at the same
time I directed him to attack the moment all of Duval's men were in line.  Wright was instructed
to advance in concert with Crook, by swinging Emory and the right of the Sixth Corps to the
left together in a half-wheel.  Then leaving Crook, I rode along the Sixth and Nineteenth corps,
the open ground over which they were passing affording a rare opportunity to witness the precision
with which the attack was taken up from right to left. Crook's success began the moment he
started to turn the enemy's left; and assured by the fact that Torbert had stampeded the Confederate
cavalry and thrown Breckenridge's infantry into such disorder that it could do little to prevent
the envelopment of Gordon's left, Crook pressed forward without even a halt.

Both Emory and Wright took up the fight as ordered, and as they did so I sent word to Wilson,
in the hope that he could partly perform the work originally laid out for Crook, to push along
the Senseny road and, if possible, gain the valley pike south of Winchester.  I then returned
toward my right flank, and as I reached the Nineteenth Corps the enemy was contesting the ground
in its front with great obstinacy; but Emory's dogged persistence was at length rewarded with
success, just as Crook's command emerged from the morass of Red Bud Run, and swept around Gordon,
toward the right of Breckenridge, who, with two of Wharton's brigades, was holding a line at
right angles with the Valley pike for the protection of the Confederate rear. Early had ordered
these two brigades back from Stephenson's depot in the morning, purposing to protect with them
his right flank and line of retreat, but while they were en route to this end, he was obliged
to recall them to his left to meet Crook's attack.

To confront Torbert, Patton's brigade of infantry and some of Fitzhugh Lee's cavalry had been
left back by Breckenridge, but, with Averell on the west side of the Valley pike and Merritt
on the east, Torbert began to drive this opposing force toward Winchester the moment he struck
it near Stephenson's depot, keeping it on the go till it reached the position held by Breckenridge,
where it endeavored to make a stand.

The ground which Breckenridge was holding was open, and offered an opportunity such as seldom
had been presented during the war for a, mounted attack, and Torbert was not slow to take advantage
of it. The instant Merritt's division could be formed for the charge, it went at Breckenridge's
infantry and Fitzhugh Lee's cavalry with such momentum as to break the Confederate left, just
as Averell was passing around it.  Merritt's brigades, led by Custer, Lowell, and Devin, met
from the start with pronounced success, and with sabre or pistol in hand literally rode down
a battery of five guns and took about 1,200 prisoners.  Almost simultaneously with this cavalry
charge, Crook struck Breckenridge's right and Gordon's left, forcing these divisions to give
way, and as they retired, Wright, in a vigorous attack, quickly broke Rodes up and pressed
Ramseur so hard that the whole Confederate army fell back, contracting its lines within some
breastworks which had been thrown up at a former period of the war, immediately in front of
Winchester.

Here Early tried hard to stem the tide, but soon Torbert's cavalry began passing around his
left flank, and as Crook, Emory, and Wright attacked in front, panic took possession of the
enemy, his troops, now fugitives and stragglers, seeking escape into and through Winchester.

When this second break occurred, the Sixth and Nineteenth corps were moved over toward the
Millwood pike to help Wilson on the left, but the day was so far spent that they could render
him no assistance, and Ramseur's division, which had maintained some organization, was in such
tolerable shape as to check him.  Meanwhile Torbert passed around to the west of Winchester
to join Wilson, but was unable to do so till after dark.  Crook's command pursued the enemy
through the town to Mill Greek, I going along.

Just after entering the town, Crook and I met, in the main street, three young girls, who gave
us the most hearty reception.  One of these young women was a Miss Griffith, the other two
Miss Jennie and Miss Susie Meredith.  During the day they had been watching the battle from
the roof of the Meredith residence, with tears and lamentations, they said, in the morning
when misfortune appeared to have overtaken the Union troops, but with unbounded exultation
when, later, the, tide set in against the Confederates.  Our presence was, to them, an assurance
of victory, and their delight being irrepressible, they indulged in the most unguarded manifestations
and expressions.  When cautioned by Crook, who knew them well, and reminded that the valley
had hitherto been a race-course--one day in the possession of friends, and the next of enemies--and
warned of the dangers they were incurring by such demonstrations, they assured him that they
had no further fears of that kind now, adding that Early's army was so demoralized by the defeat
it had just sustained that it would never be in condition to enter Winchester again.  As soon
as we had succeeded in calming the excited girls a little I expressed a desire to find some
place where I could write a telegram to General Grant informing him of the result of the battle,
and General Crook conducted me to the home of Miss Wright, where I met for the first time the
woman who had contributed so much to our success, and on a desk in her school-room wrote the
despatch announcing that we had sent Early's army whirling up the valley.

My losses in the battle of the Opequon were heavy, amounting to about 4,500 killed, wounded,
and missing.  Among the killed was General Russell, commanding a division, and the wounded
included Generals Upton, McIntosh and Chapman, and Colonels Duval and Sharpe.  The Confederate
loss in killed, wounded, and prisoners about equaled mine, General Rodes being of the killed,
while Generals Fitzhugh Lee and York were severely wounded.

We captured five pieces of artillery and nine battle-flags.  The restoration of the lower valley--from
the Potomac to Strasburg--to the control of the Union forces caused great rejoicing in the
North, and relieved the Administration from further solicitude for the safety of the Maryland
and Pennsylvania borders.  The President's appreciation of the victory was expressed in a despatch
so like Mr. Lincoln that I give a facsimile of it to the reader:

[In the handwriting of President Lincoln] "EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT "WASHINGTON, Sep.  20, 1864

"MAJOR-GENERAL SHERMAN "WINCHESTER, VA.

"Have just heard of your great victory.  God bless you all, officers and men.  Strongly inclined
to come up and see you.

"A. LINCOLN."

This he supplemented by promoting me to the grade of brigadier-general in the regular army,
and assigning me to the permanent command of the Middle Military Department, and following
that came warm congratulations from Mr. Stanton and from Generals Grant, Sherman, and Meade.

The battle was not fought out on the plan in accordance with which marching orders were issued
to my troops, for I then hoped to take Early in detail, and with Crook's force cut off his
retreat.  I adhered to this purpose during the early part of the contest, but was obliged to
abandon the idea because of unavoidable delays by which I was prevented from getting the Sixth
and Nineteenth corps through the narrow defile and into position early enough to destroy Ramseur
while still isolated.  So much delay had not been anticipated, and this loss of time was taken
advantage of by the enemy to recall the troops diverted to Bunker Hill and Martinsburg on the
17th, thus enabling him to bring them all to the support of Ramseur before I could strike with
effect.  My idea was to attack Ramseur and Wharton, successively, at a very early hour and
before they could get succor, but I was not in condition to do it till nearly noon, by which
time Gordon and Rodes had been enabled to get upon the ground at a point from which, as I advanced,
they enfiladed my right flank, and gave it such a repulse that to re-form this part of my line
I was obliged to recall the left from some of the ground it had gained.  It was during this
reorganization of my lines that I changed my plan as to Crook, and moved him from my left to
my right.  This I did with great reluctance, for I hoped to destroy Early's army entirely if
Crook continued on his original line of march toward the Valley pike, south of Winchester;
and although the ultimate results did, in a measure vindicate the change, yet I have always
thought that by adhering to the original plan we might have captured the bulk of Early's army.

CHAPTER 11.

PURSUING EARLY--A SECRET MARCH--FISHER'S HILL--A GREAT SUCCESS --REMOVAL OF AVERELL--THE RETREAT--CAPTURING
AN OLD COMRADE --THE MURDER OF LIEUTENANT MEIGS.

The night of the 19th of September I gave orders for following Early up the valley next morning--the
pursuit to begin at daybreak--and in obedience to these directions Torbert moved Averell out
on the Back road leading to Cedar Creek, and Merritt up the Valley pike toward Strasburg, while
Wilson was directed on Front Royal by way of Stevensburg.  Merritt's division was followed
by the infantry, Emory's and Wright's columns marching abreast in the open country to the right
and left of the pike, and Crook's immediately behind them. The enemy having kept up his retreat
at night, presented no opposition whatever until the cavalry discovered him posted at Fisher's
Hill, on the first defensive line where he could hope to make any serious resistance.  No effort
was made to dislodge him, and later in the day, after Wright and Emory came up, Torbert shifted
Merritt over toward the Back road till he rejoined Averell.  As Merritt moved to the right,
the Sixth and Nineteenth corps crossed Cedar Creek and took up the ground the cavalry was vacating,
Wright posting his own corps to the west of the Valley pike overlooking Strasburg, and Emory's
on his left so as to extend almost to the road leading from Strasburg to Front Royal.  Crook,
as he came up the same evening, went into position in some heavy timber on the north bank of
Cedar Creek.

A reconnoissance made pending these movements convinced me that the enemy's position at Fisher's
Hill was so strong that a direct assault would entail unnecessary destruction of life, and,
besides, be of doubtful result.  At the point where Early's troops were in position, between
the Massanutten range and Little North Mountain, the valley is only about three and a half
miles wide.  All along the precipitous bluff which overhangs Tumbling Run on the south side,
a heavy line of earthworks had been constructed when Early retreated to this point in August,
and these were now being strengthened so as to make them almost impregnable; in fact, so secure
did Early consider himself that, for convenience, his ammunition chests were taken from the
caissons and placed behind the breastworks.  Wharton, now in command of Breckenridge's division--its
late commander having gone to southwest Virginia--held the right of this line, with Gordon
next him; Pegram, commanding Ramseur's old division, joined Gordon. Ramseur with Rodes's division,
was on Pegram's left, while Lomax's cavalry, now serving as foot-troops, extended the line
to the Back road.  Fitzhugh Lee being wounded, his cavalry, under General Wickham, was sent
to Milford to prevent Fisher's Hill from being turned through the Luray Valley.

In consequence of the enemy's being so well protected from a direct assault, I resolved on
the night of the 20th to use again a turning-column against his left, as had been done on the
19th at the Opequon. To this end I resolved to move Crook, unperceived if possible, over to
the eastern face of Little North Mountain, whence he could strike the left and rear of the
Confederate line, and as he broke it up, I could support him by a left half-wheel of my whole
line of battle. The execution of this plan would require perfect secrecy, however, for the
enemy from his signal-station on Three Top could plainly see every movement of our troops in
daylight.  Hence, to escape such observation, I marched Crook during the night of the 20th
into some heavy timber north of Cedar Creek, where he lay concealed all day the 21st. That the
prosecution was not been abated up by nature that he could not be imprisoned before trial; although
one effect mortal was to stimulate the count to any indictment have preferred with him wound, on
which he might be expected to find it less wounded to excite the sympathy of the party. Always, the
liberation of Wilkes on the ground of his political privilege formed him but cost a triumph, or
however'respite. Wilkes had not rather been proved his killed men to parliamentary pamphlets.
 Wright soon carried the point, which gave us an unobstructed
view of the enemy's works and offered good ground for our artillery.  It also enabled me to
move the whole of the Sixth Corps to the front till its line was within about seven hundred
yards of the enemy's works; the Nineteenth Corps, on the morning of the 22d, covering the ground
vacated by the Sixth by moving to the front and extending to the right, but still keeping its
reserves on the railroad.

In the darkness of the night of the gist, Crook was brought across Cedar Creek and hidden in
a clump of timber behind Hupp's Hill till daylight of the 22d, when, under cover of the intervening
woods and ravines, he was marched beyond the right of the Sixth Corps and again concealed not
far from the Back road.  After Crook had got into this last position, Ricketts's division was
pushed out until it confronted the left of the enemy's infantry, the rest of the Sixth Corps
extending from Ricketts's left to the Manassas Gap railroad, while the Nineteenth Corps filled
in the space between the left of the Sixth and the North Fork of the Shenandoah.

When Ricketts moved out on this new line, in conjunction with Averell's cavalry on his right,
the enemy surmising, from information secured from his signal-station, no doubt, that my attack
was to be made from Ricketts's front, prepared for it there, but no such intention ever existed.
Ricketts was pushed forward only that he might readily join Crook's turning-column as it swung
into the enemy's rear.  To ensure success, all that I needed now was enough daylight to complete
my arrangements, the secrecy of movement imposed by the situation consuming many valuable hours.

While Ricketts was occupying the enemy's attention, Crook, again moving unobserved into the
dense timber on the eastern face of Little North Mountain, conducted his command south in two
parallel columns until he gained the rear of the enemy's works, when, marching his divisions
by the left flank, he led them in an easterly direction down the mountain-side.  As he emerged
from the timber near the base of the mountain, the Confederates discovered him, of course,
and opened with their batteries, but it was too late--they having few troops at hand to confront
the turning-column.  Loudly cheering, Crook's men quickly crossed the broken stretch in rear
of the enemy's left, producing confusion and consternation at every step.

About a mile from the mountain's base Crook's left was joined by Ricketts, who in proper time
had begun to swing his division into the action, and the two commands moved along in rear of
the works so rapidly that, with but slight resistance, the Confederates abandoned the guns
massed near the centre.  The swinging movement of Ricketts was taken up successively from right
to left throughout my line, and in a few minutes the enemy was thoroughly routed, the action,
though brief, being none the less decisive.  Lomax's dismounted cavalry gave way first, but
was shortly followed by all the Confederate infantry in an indescribable panic, precipitated
doubtless by fears of being caught and captured in the pocket formed by Tumbling Run and the
North Fork of the Shenandoah River.  The stampede was complete, the enemy leaving the field
without semblance of organization, abandoning nearly all his artillery and such other property
as was in the works, and the rout extending through the fields and over the roads toward Woodstock,
Wright and Emory in hot pursuit.

Midway between Fisher's Hill and Woodstock there is some high ground, where at night-fall a
small squad endeavored to stay us with two pieces of artillery, but this attempt at resistance
proved fruitless, and, notwithstanding the darkness, the guns were soon captured.  The chase
was then taken up by Devin's brigade as soon as it could be passed to the front, and continued
till after daylight the next morning, but the delays incident to a night pursuit made it impossible
for Devin to do more than pick up stragglers.

Our success was very great, yet I had anticipated results still more pregnant.  Indeed, I had
high hopes of capturing almost the whole of Early's army before it reached New Market, and
with this object in view, during the manoeuvres of the 21st I had sent Torbert up the Luray
Valley with Wilson's division and two of Merritt's brigades, in the expectation that he would
drive Wickham out of the Luray Pass by Early's right, and by crossing the Massanutten Mountain
near New Market, gain his rear.  Torbert started in good season, and after some slight skirmishing
at Gooney Run, got as far as Milford, but failed to dislodge Wickham.  In fact, he made little
or no attempt to force Wickham from his position, and with only a feeble effort withdrew. 
I heard nothing at all from Torbert during the 22d, and supposing that everything was progressing
favorably, I was astonished and chagrined on the morning of the 23d, at Woodstock, to receive
the intelligence that he had fallen back to Front Royal and Buckton ford. My disappointment
was extreme, but there was now no help for the situation save to renew and emphasize Torbert's
orders, and this was done at once, notwithstanding that I thought, the delay, had so much diminished
the chances of his getting in the rear of Early as to make such a result a very remote possibility,
unless, indeed, far greater zeal was displayed than had been in the first attempt to penetrate
the Luray Valley.

The battle of Fisher's Hill was, in a measure, a part of the battle of the Opequon; that is
to say, it was an incident of the pursuit resulting from that action.  In many ways, however,
it was much more satisfactory, and particularly so because the plan arranged on the evening
of the 20th was carried out to the very letter by Generals Wright, Crook, and Emory, not only
in all their preliminary manoeuvres, but also during the fight itself.  The only drawback was
with the cavalry, and to this day I have been unable to account satisfactorily for Torbert's
failure.  No doubt, Wickham's position near Milford was a strong one, but Torbert ought to
have made a fight.  Had he been defeated in this, his withdrawal then to await the result at
Fisher's Hill would have been justified, but it does not appear that he made any serious effort
of all to dislodge the Confederate cavalry: his impotent attempt not only chagrined me very
much, but occasioned much unfavorable comment throughout the army.

We reached Woodstock early on the morning of the 23d, and halted there some little time to
let the troops recover their organization, which had been broken in the night march they had
just made.  When the commands had closed up we pushed on toward Edinburg, in the hope of making
more captures at Narrow Passage Creek; but the Confederates, too fleet for us, got away; so
General Wright halted the infantry not far from Edinburg, till rations could be brought the
men.  Meanwhile I, having remained at Woodstock, sent Dedin's brigade to press the enemy under
every favorable opportunity, and if possible prevent him from halting long enough to reorganize.
Notwithstanding Devin's efforts the Confederates managed to assemble a considerable force to
resist him, and being too weak for the rearguard, he awaited the arrival of Averell, who, I
had informed him, would be hurried to the front with all possible despatch, for I thought that
Averell must be close at hand. Of spite, he were plainly concealed to England, and took himself
as candidate for much London. There, would indeed, he did not see, where the populace was closer
uproarious in support, and drew his carriage through the troops see
as if in three signal.

It was nearly noon when Averell came up, and a great deal of precious time had been lost. 
We had some hot words, but hoping that he would retrieve the mistake of the night before, I
directed him to proceed to the front at once, and in conjunction with Devin close with the
enemy.  He reached Devin's command about 3 o'clock in the afternoon, just as this officer was
pushing the Confederates so energetically that they were abandoning Mount Jackson, yet Averell
utterly failed to accomplish anything.  Indeed, his indifferent attack was not at all worthy
the excellent soldiers he commanded, and when I learned that it was his intention to withdraw
from the enemy's front, and this, too, on the indefinite report of a signal-officer that a
"brigade or division" of Confederates was turning his right flank, and that he had not seriously
attempted to verify the information, I sent him this order:

"HEADQUARTERS MIDDLE MILITARY DIVISION, "Woodstock, Va., Sept.  23, 1864

"BREVET MAJOR-GENERAL AVERELL

"Your report and report of signal-officer received.  I do not want you to let the enemy bluff
you or your command, and I want you to distinctly understand this note.  I do not advise rashness,
but I do desire resolution and actual fighting, with necessary casualties, before you retire.
There must now be no backing or filling by you without a superior force of the enemy actually
engaging you.

"P. H. SHERIDAN, "Major-General Commanding."

