ARSENIC: Cobalt, Scheele's green, fly powder, ratsbane, etc.--Give plenty of milk, whites of
eggs, or induce vomiting by mustard and warm water; [Footnote: See that the mustard is well
mixed with the water, in the proportion of about half an ounce of the former to a pint of the
latter.] or even soapsuds.

BITE OF A SNAKE OR A MAD DOG.--Tie a bandage above the wound, if on a limb. Wash the bite thoroughly,
and, if possible, let the person suck it strongly. Rub some lunar caustic or potash in the
wound, or heat the point of a small poker or a steel sharpener white hot, and press it into
the bite for a moment. It will scarcely cause pain, and will be effectual in arresting the
absorption of the poison, unless a vein has been struck.

COPPER: Sulphate of copper (blue vitriol), acetate of copper (verdigris).--Take whites of eggs
or soda. Use milk freely.

LAUDANUM: Opium, paregoric, soothing cordial, soothing syrup, etc. --Give an emetic at once
of syrup of ipecac, or mustard and warm water, etc. After vomiting, use strong coffee freely.
Keep the patient awake by pinching, pulling the hair, walking about, dashing water in the face,
and any expedient possible.

LEAD: White lead, acetate of lead (sugar of lead), red lead.--Give an emetic of syrup of ipecac,
or mustard and warm water, or salt and water. Follow with a dose of Epsom salts.

MATCHES: Phosphorus.--Give magnesia, chalk, whiting, or even flour in water, and follow with
mucilaginous drinks.

MERCURY: Calomel, chloride of mercury (corrosive sublimate, bug poison), red precipitate.--Drink
milk copiously. Take the whites of eggs, or stir flour in water, and use freely.

NITRATE OF SILVER (lunar caustic).--Give salt and water, and follow with castor oil.

NITRATE OF POTASH (saltpeter, niter).--Give mustard and warm water, or syrup of ipecac. Follow
with flour and water, and cream or sweet oil.

PRUSSIC ACID (oil of bitter almonds), cyanide of potassium.--Take a teaspoonful of hartshorn
in a pint of water. Apply smelling salts to the nose, and dash cold water in the face.

STING OF AN INSECT.--Apply a little hartshorn or spirits of camphor, or soda moistened with
water, or a paste of clean earth and saliva.

SULPHATE OF IRON (green vitriol).--Give syrup of ipecac, or mustard and warm water, or any
convenient emetic; then magnesia and water.

X.

SELECTED READINGS

TO ILLUSTRATE AND SUPPLEMENT THE TEXT.

Arranged in order of the subjects to which they refer.

LORD BACON.

"He who learns the rules of wisdom without conforming to them in his life, is like a man who
labored in his fields but did not sow."

SAADI.

SELECTED READINGS.

The figures indicate the pages in the text upon which the corresponding subjects will be found.

THE SKELETON.

MAN, AS COMPARED WITH OTHER VERTEBRATE ANIMALS (p. 3).--Man, the lord of the animal kingdom,
is constructed after the same type as the cat that purrs at his feet, the ox that he eats,
the horse that bears his burden, the bird that sings in his cage, the snake that crawls across
his pathway, the toad that hides in his garden, and the fish that swims in his aquarium. All
these are but modifications of one creative thought, showing how the Almighty Worker delights
in repeating the same chord, with infinite variations. There are marked physical peculiarities,
however, which distinguish man from the other mammals. Thus, the position of the spinal opening
in the middle third of the base of the skull, thereby balancing the head and admitting an upright
posture; the sigmoid S-curve of the vertebral column; the ability of opposing the well-developed
thumb to the fingers; the shortened foot, the sole resting flat on the ground; the size and
position of the great toe; the length of the arms, reaching halfway from the hip to the knees;
the relatively great development of the brain; the freedom of the anterior extremities from
use in locomotion, and the consequent erect and biped position. In addition, man is the only
mammal that truly walks; that is endowed with the power of speech; and that is cosmopolitan,
readily adapting himself to extremes of heat and cold, and making his home in all parts of
the globe.--STEELE'S Popular Zoology.

FIG. 68.

UNION OF FRACTURES (p. 8).--In the course of a week after a fracture, there is a soft yet firm
substance, something between ligament and cartilage in consistence, which surrounds the broken
extremities of the bone, and adheres to it above and below. The neighboring muscles and tendons
are closely attached to its surface, and the fractured extremities of the bone lie, as it were,
loose in a cavity in the center, with a small quantity of vascular albumen, resembling a semitransparent
jelly.

Here, then, is a kind of splint which nature contrives, and which is nearly completed within
a week from the date of the accident. We call this new formation the callus. This process goes
on, the surrounding substance becoming thicker and of still firmer consistence. In the course
of a few days more, the thin jelly which lay in contact with the broken ends of the bone has
disappeared, and its place is supplied by a callus continuous with that which formed the original
capsule. This is the termination of the first stage of curative progress. The broken ends of
the bones are now completely imbedded in a mass of vascular organized substance or callus,
something between gristle and cartilage in consistence; and as yet there are no traces of bony
matter in it. At this time, if you remove the adventitious substance, you will find the broken
ends of bone retaining exactly their original figure and presenting the same appearance as
immediately after the fracture took place.

At the end of about three weeks, if you make a section of the callus, minute specks of earthy
matter are visible, deposited in it here and there, and at the same time some of the callus,
appears to disappear on the outside, so that the neighboring muscles and tendons no longer
adhere to it. The specks of bone become larger and more numerous until they extend into each
other; and thus by degrees the whole of the callus is converted into bone. Even at this period,
however, there is not absolute bony union, for although the whole of the callus has become
bone, it is not yet identified with the old bone, and you might still pick it off with a penknife,
leaving the broken extremities not materially altered from what they were immediately after
the injury. This may be regarded as the end of the second stage of the process by which a fracture
is repaired. Now a third series of changes begins to take place. The broken extremities of
the bones become intimately united by bony matter passing from one to the other. The mass of
new bone on the outside, formed by the ossification of the callus, being no longer wanted,
is absorbed; by degrees the whole of it disappears, and the bone is left having the same dimensions
which it had before the occurrence of the accident.

The process of union is completed in young persons sooner than in those advanced in life; in
the upper extremities sooner than in the lower; and in smaller animals more speedily than in
man. In human subjects a broken arm or forearm will be healed in from six to eight weeks, while
a leg or thigh will occupy nine or ten weeks.--SIR B. C. BRODIE.

FIG. 69.

