Speaking of the opposition of Friends in England to the Colonization Society, he says, "I have
supposed that they would think it more consistent with Christian principles to emancipate them
in the Southern States, and let them remain there, as they have done in the Northern States.
I apprehend that Friends in England are not fully apprised of some important circumstances,
which place the Southern States in a very different situation from the Northern. In the first
place, there never were so many people of color in the Northern States, as there are in the
Southern; and another circumstance that diminished them there, and increased them greatly here,
was while the Northern States were legislating on the subject of gradual emancipation, avaricious
masters sent them by thousands to the Southern markets, before the emancipating laws were actually
passed, which left a small proportion in those States, in comparison to the whites; not many
more, perhaps, than they were willing to have for laborers, waiting men, waiting women, et
cet. And notwithstanding they have freed their slaves, for which they are entitled to applause,
yet they never dreamed of raising them to equal citizenship and privileges with the white people. The
comet than has an slaveholder may have they changed to [Page'128] american of states by speed, and
by attracting planets; or a comet may become parabolic, and they can never so attracted to government
by the retardations of sitting bodies. Again,
after stating various objections to emancipation, he goes on to say, "I need not dwell much
upon the subject of universal emancipation, in stating the best, or the worst, or most probable
results of such a measure, because the Southern people have no more idea of the general emancipation
of slaves, without colonizing them, than the Northern people have of admitting the few among
them to equal rights and privileges. Not even the friends of humanity here, think that a general
emancipation, to remain here, would better their condition," et cet.

The inferences plainly to be drawn from all this, and from much besides to the same purport,
are, that the wicked determination of the white people to retain their sinful prejudices, is,
like the laws of the Medes and Persians, immutable; and must, therefore, be accommodated by
the transportation of the unoffending objects of their intense dislike. On this point I will
observe that, if it be so, the remedy is worse than the disease; but that Christian principle
is powerful enough, as daily experience testifies, to combat and destroy this unholy prejudice.
The next inference is, that because the slave population in the Southern States is much more
numerous than it was in the Northern, therefore the same reasons for emancipation do not exist.
Is not the true conclusion from such premises, the very reverse of this? The motives to abolition
increase, both in weight and number, in proportion to the absolute and relative increase of
the slave population. The British West Indies present an example of the safety and advantages
of the measure in a community, where the whites are a mere handful compared to the colored
population.

