In building the school, a pleasing style of architecture should be adopted, and the walls of
the main hall should be hung with diagrams of all kinds, illustrative of natural history in
its largest sense, of the sciences and of the mechanical arts, and with portraits or busts
of distinguished men. The walls of the class-rooms should be decorated with diagrams and maps
and figures referring to the special branches taught therein.

A large and commodious laboratory should be fitted up in the building, to enable every pupil
to acquire experimentally that knowledge of chemical forces and action which books alone can
never impart. A convenient observatory should afford facility for astronomical study and observation.

On the top floors or around the building should be arranged workshops, where the use of tools
and machinery could be taught. The classes should assemble in the large hall, in the morning,
where they might join in singing or light gymnastic exercises, or listen to some short appropriate
address before betaking themselves to their class-rooms.

The teaching in these latter should be conducted, wherever practicable, upon the Socratic method,
and every branch of science and of art could be thus explained. The mother unconsciously uses
this method in educating or drawing out the first perceptions of infancy and early youth; and
the impressions derived from this method of acquiring knowledge are the most lasting, being
such as become most absolutely assimilated with the pupil's mind. The teacher would also, at
frequent intervals, conduct his class into the fields and woods for the study of botany, entomology,
and geology, where Nature would supply in abundance the materials, and the teacher would be
the only book. Instruction in the various trades which could be conveniently practised should
receive attention, the taste of the pupils being made a guide to selection.

Some portion of the teaching which goes on in school should be performed by the pupils, under
the supervision of the teacher. No adult can so thoroughly enter into a child's mind as can
another child; nor is this the only reason.

That is not fully known which can not be thoroughly used and applied, and knowledge can not
be applied which its possessor can not himself impart. A perfect illustration of this truth
is furnished us in the training of the soldier.

Upon nothing, perhaps, have the knowledge and skill of the most powerful intellects been more
concentrated than upon the science and art of mutual slaughter; and in establishing the soldiers'
drill, an exhaustive analysis of the means by which the desired object was to be attained has
been pursued. The men whose intellects have developed that drill, have not been content to
treat the soldier as a pupil only. Each recruit has in turn to teach, as well as to learn to
practise what he has learned, by drilling others whom he is made temporarily to command, as
well as to practise his drill under the command of his officer; for only by such means could
the highest degree of efficiency be secured. The reasons which led to the adoption of this
principle in the barrack apply equally to the school.

This principle of giving and receiving we also see exemplified in Nature. Animals inhale oxygen
from the air and return carbonic acid, which serves to build up the structure of the plant,
and the latter in its turn gives out oxygen to supply the consumption of animals.

Every day--in the middle of the day, in winter, in the summer, early in the morning, or in
the evening--gymnastic training on the system of the Swedish anatomist Ling or of the German
Turners would form a portion of the curriculum, for which convenient apparatus would be provided.

Biography should form an important feature in the course of reading, its subjects being arranged
in groups; and the true glory of a Washington, a Bentham, a Stevenson, a Morse, and a Cobden
distinguished from the false glare and tinsel of a Louis XIV. and a Marlborough.

Music, both vocal and instrumental, would be taught to all, but only those more gifted by nature
would be educated to perform solo. Nearly all persons can be trained to sing part-music pleasantly
and intelligently, and to perform moderately on some instrument. The cultivation of the musical
faculties harmonizes the mind, and affords a never-failing source of solace and recreation.
The attempt to convert all persons into solo performers, and the hypocritical applause with
which their discordant notes are indiscriminately greeted, deprives society of the pleasures
which part-music well performed would afford, by encouraging all to attempt what they are pretty
sure to do badly, to the exclusion of what they would be equally likely to do well.

We have reserved for the last, to enumerate what is, perhaps, the most important of all the
subjects of instruction.

TO ALL children, so soon as they can be promoted from the kinder garten--perhaps even to the
higher grades therein--instruction in the conditions of human well-being, and in the phenomena
and arrangements of social life should be given, and should be continued throughout their school
career.

What! teach political economy to children? Even so. It will be conceded, that to teach the
future laborers the laws by which the wages of their labor will be regulated, how high wages
may be secured and low wages prevented--to teach the future capitalists the laws by which their
profits will be determined, how large profits may be secured, and loss, failure, crises, and
panics avoided--must be a desirable, if it be a practicable thing. Is it practicable? The experience
of twenty years has proved that it is. The experiment has been tried by Mr. Wm. Ellis, the
wise and noble founder of the Birkbeck schools of London, England, who not only devoted his
surplus means to the endowment of true schools, but gave also his time to instruct in the principles
of the science of human well-being--alike the poor children by whom his schools were attended
and the children of the Queen of England. He also instructed and trained a corps of teachers,
professional and volunteer, and by one of the latter a class was conducted in the winter of
1867, '68 at the Normal School of this city of some 35 to 40 teachers engaged in the practical
work of teaching in our common schools, who, under his guidance, became, after a short course
of some twenty or more lessons, enthusiastic advocates for the introduction of this study into
the schools; for not only does it teach the conditions of industrial success, but it is also
a science of morals and of ethics far more worthy of the attention it has never yet received
in this or, indeed, in any country, than that which is given to what goes under the name of
moral teaching and training. It is by gradual steps--by the employment of the Socratic method
of instruction--with a rare use of text-books, that the most intricate problems of this science
can be unfolded to pupils with such effect that a child of fourteen or fifteen years of age,
who shall have passed through a course of four or five years' instruction, would put to the
blush, with few exceptions, alike the members of both houses of the United States Congress
and of the British Parliament.

A museum and a library would be necessary adjuncts to such a school as we have described. It
would need but a few seasons to get together in the various excursions taken by pupils and
teachers, quite a collection of botanical, entomological, and geological specimens. These would
serve as objects for illustrating the teacher's lessons, and for examination by the pupils.
The drying, preservation, and arrangement of plants, animals, and minerals, in which the pupils
would assist, would serve to impart to them a skill and dexterity, which they would know how
to value, and would be eager to acquire, and, together with their frequent visits to the museum,
would serve to cultivate a love of nature and devotion to the study of her works.

The library, besides containing treatises on science and for reference, would be filled with
books of travels, and the nobler English and foreign classics; the books would be loaned to
the pupils as in ordinary circulating libraries, and a pleasant reading-room would be furnished
with the better class of periodicals and newspapers.

To be deprived for a time of the right to visit the museum or reading-room, or to borrow books
from the library, would be one of the severest punishments known in the school.

It is hardly necessary to say that the selection of the principal of such a school as we have
indicated is among the most difficult problems of its establishment. His qualifications should
be as near the perfection of manhood as can possibly be found. Invited by a large and generous
salary (to be dependent, beyond a stated sum, on the number of the pupils), it is to be hoped
such a teacher could be found.

Such a principal, after a fixed period of probation, should not be removable except on a very
large vote of the proprietors of the school to that effect, but his office should be vacated
on his attaining the age of 60 or 65 years. The selection of teachers to assist him in his
duties should be left to himself. The remuneration of the assistant teachers should also be
large, and should be such as not only to enable them to live in comfort, but to make ample
provision for their future when the age of labor shall have passed.

The chief position in society should be assured to the principal and his assistants by the
proprietors of the school.

The visits of the former to the houses of the latter should be regarded as an honor, the greatest
respect and deference should be paid to them, and the pupils should be taught to look upon
them with love and respect next only to that they pay their parents.

The best investment a parent can make of his wealth is in the proper education of his children.
Life is not merely to be born, to grow, to eat, to drink, and breathe. Noise is not music.
Life is such as we take it and make it, or rather as it is taken hold of and made for us by
those to whom the care of our youthful days is intrusted.

Let us endeavor to picture to ourselves the being likely to be produced by a system of teaching
and training, continued for successive generations, such as we have indicated above. Let us
imagine the full development of the most complex of nature's organisms--a part of the one living
organism of the Universe, the latest product of her laboratory; considered, as a part of the
great Cosmos, the most perfect, yet but an integer in the whole; the ultimate development of
nature's chemistry, yet forming an atom of her living unity; combining and possessing the widest
relationships, even embracing therein the entire volume of that nature whose true relationships
comprise all knowledge, truly "the noblest study of mankind." Let us try and draw the picture
of the developed man!

Robust and supple of limb, symmetrical of shape, his muscles swelling beneath their healthy
development; with head erect, conscious of his strength and skill, which he puts forth for
the protection of the weak, and for the purpose of drawing from nature her bounteous stores;
free from sickness or disease, in harmony with nature, at peace with his fellow-men, possessing
a competent knowledge of nature's laws, and guiding his conduct to be in accord therewith,
"sitting beneath his own vine and fig-tree," "blessed in all the works of his hands," and diffusing
blessings and happiness around. Such is the picture of THE HEALTHY MIND IN A HEALTHY FRAME,
which it is in man's power to procreate and rear!

APPENDIX.

  DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION,}
  CORNER OF GRAND AND ELM STREETS, }
  NEW YORK, June 5th, 1869.        }

  TO MAGNUS GROSS, Esq.,

Chairman of the "Executive Committee for the Care, Government and Management of the College
of the City of New York:"

DEAR SIR,--I have observed with surprise, and with a sense of deep regret, that the proposition
is entertained by a large number of the Trustees of filling the chair of Latin and Greek, now
vacant, and even of establishing separate chairs for each, at the College of the City of New
York; involving, with the necessary tutors, an outlay of not less than $20,000 per annum. The
subject in all its bearings is one of too vast importance to be treated in the ordinary method
of discussion by the Committee, and I therefore beg leave to place my views in writing, to
insure their receiving more matured consideration than oral observations could secure.

I pass over the question (on which considerable difference of opinion exists) as to the propriety
of sustaining at all, at the enforced expense of the public, an educational institution to
supply the needs which the College of the City of New York is intended to meet. The College
exists by law; we are its guardians, and the only question we have to consider is, how most
efficiently and most economically to secure the attainment of the ends desired by the Legislature.

These ends we shall no doubt all agree to be--first: that any of the youth of this city possessed
of special talents, but lacking means for their cultivation, may have placed within their reach
an education the best possible for the development of their powers for the benefit of themselves
and of the community; and, second, to provide for the comparatively well-to-do the means of
pursuing useful studies in compensation for compelling them to provide for the instruction
of their less fortunate citizens.

As it is self-evident that whatever course of studies will tend to secure the first of these
ends will tend also to secure the second and less important, we are spared the necessity of
a two-fold investigation.

A very few statistics suffice to show that neither of these ends has been hitherto attained
by the College of the City of New York.

It is immaterial what year we select for examination, the numbers which follow will be found
to bear about the same relative proportions in every year. I quote from the Trustees' Report
for 1866 merely because it is the latest document at hand which furnishes the numbers in the
different classes and of the graduates; from this report I find, that while there were three
hundred and eighty-one students in the introductory class, only twenty-five graduated in that
year. The number of graduates in 1867 was thirty, and twenty-nine in July, 1868. Of the three
hundred and eighty-one who composed the introductory class in 1866, one hundred and fifty-one
left the College during the year, and doubtless the two hundred and thirty who remained will
have dwindled to about twenty-five or thirty by the year 1871.

Without doubt some proportion of the three hundred and eighty-one leave the College because
of the necessity they are under of obtaining, by their labor, the means of subsistence; but
when it is remembered that these three hundred and eighty-one are the picked youth from the
many thousands attending the public schools, and when the sacrifices and privations which men
and youth imbued with a love of learning will make and undergo for the acquirement of knowledge
are borne in mind, we must look to something in the constitution of the College itself to account
for this result. In short, we can but come to the conclusion that the main cause of this falling
off is to be found in the feeling which grows upon the pupils and their guardians, of the comparative
uselessness of the studies to which they are consigned.

Let us examine the course of studies, as given from pages 8 to 14 of the Report of the Board
of Trustees for the year 1866, or from pages 24 to 28 of the Manual of the College.

The first observation which must strike the mind of every thinker is the fact that the primary
analysis--the main classification which has been adopted of studies which ought to be framed
to fit the students for "complete living"--is one of "words," i. e., the tools of knowledge,
instead of knowledge itself. Or in the words of the Report: "There are two courses of studies--ancient
and modern--differing only in the languages studied."

On examining the course for the introductory and freshman classes, a feeling of astonishment
must fill the mind at the marked want of wisdom by which it was dictated, but which at the
same time affords a sufficient explanation for the abandonment of the College by its students.

Even if "words" ought to be the real object of education, it would be supposed that English
words would be more useful to a people whose mother-tongue is English, than the words of any
other language; yet the students of the introductory and freshman classes of the ancient course
receive instruction five hours a week through both terms in Latin and Greek, and one lesson
per week during one term in the English language. The students of the modern course substitute
for Latin and Greek the French and Spanish languages.

I purposely abstain from saying any thing as to the method of instruction, which is the converse
of that adopted by nature, and as a consequence signally fails. This has been so forcibly put
by President Barnard, of Columbia College, that I need only refer the members of our Committee
to his essay on "Early Mental Training, and the Studies best fitted for it."

What steps are taken to familiarize the students of, say the freshman class, with that great
nature of which they form a part? What, for instance, do they learn of the structure of their
own bodies, and of the means of preserving health? One lesson a week is given on Physiology
and Hygiene, and that is all! The fear of making this letter too long compels me merely to
refer the Committee to pages 40 to 42 of Mr. Herbert Spencer's chapter on "What Knowledge is
of Most Worth," in his work on Education, in farther illustration of this subject, instead
of making extracts from it as I would otherwise like to do.

Attention, it is true, is paid throughout the college course to mathematical studies, yet very
little to their practical application; while to Chemistry, the parent of modern physics, the
manual (which is our guide) prescribes two lessons per week to the introductory class, and
to the freshman, sophomore, and junior classes absolutely none at all! Mining, Mechanical Engineering,
Architecture, Theoretical Agriculture, Biology, and Botany are utterly ignored; and no branch
of Zoology is even mentioned in the curriculum. We next come to a science more important, because
universal in its application and in its need than any other, viz.: The Science of Human Well-being,
commonly called Political or Social Economy. Here, too, like exclusion! except that in the
sophomore class, for one term, one hour per week is given to it. That is to say, a people who
are to live by labor are left by the guardians of their education in ignorance of the laws
by which the reward for that labor must be regulated; they who are to administer capital are
to be left to blind chance whether to act in accordance with those laws of nature which determine
its increase, or ignorantly to violate them!

Restrained again from quotation by the fear of wearying the Committee, permit me to refer them
to the lecture of Dr. Hodgson, delivered at the Royal Institution of Great Britain, on "The
Importance of the Study of Economic Science," which will be found in the work of Professor
Youmans, on "The Culture demanded by Modern Life."

I confess to a feeling of deep discouragement at the perusal of such a record as that presented
by the course of studies at the College of the City of New York, especially when I find that
this is the state of things a large number of the Trustees seem desirous of perpetuating. My
views on this subject are confirmed by the following remarks found in President Barnard's Essay
on "Early Mental Training, and the Studies best fitted for it."

     "Whatever may be the value of the study of the classics in a
     subjective point of view, nothing could possibly more thoroughly
     unfit a man for any immediate usefulness in this matter-of-fact
     world, or make him more completely a stranger in his own home, than
     the purely classical education which used recently to be given, and
     which, with some slight improvement, is believed to be still given by
     the universities of England. This proposition is very happily
     enforced by a British writer, whose strictures on the system appeared
     in the London Times some twelve or thirteen years ago.

     "Common things are quite as much neglected and despised in the
     education of the rich as in that of the poor. It is wonderful how
     little a young gentleman may know when he has taken his university
     degrees, especially if he has been industrious, and has stuck to his
     studies. He may really spend a long time in looking for somebody
     more ignorant than himself. If he talks with the driver of the
     stage-coach that lands him at his father's door, he finds he knows
     nothing of horses. If he falls into conversation with a gardener, he
     knows nothing of plants or flowers. If he walks into the fields, he
     does not know the difference between barley, rye, and wheat; between
     rape and turnips; between natural and artificial grass. If he goes
     into a carpenter's yard, he does not know one wood from another. If
     he comes across an attorney, he has no idea of the difference between
     common and statute law, and is wholly in the dark as to those
     securities of personal and political liberty on which we pride
     ourselves. If he talks with a country magistrate, he finds his only
     idea of the office is that the gentleman is a sort of English Sheik,
     as the Mayor of the neighboring borough is a sort of Cadi. If he
     strolls into any workshop or place of manufacture, it is always to
     find his level, and that a level far below the present company. If he
     dines out, and as a youth of proved talents and perhaps university
     honors is expected to be literary, his literature is confined to a
     few popular novels--the novels of the last century, or even of the
     last generation--history and poetry having been almost studiously
     omitted in his education. The girl who has never stirred from home,
     and whose education has been economized, not to say neglected, in
     order to send her own brother to college, knows vastly more of those
     things than he does. The same exposure awaits him wherever he goes,
     and whenever he has the audacity to open his mouth. At sea he is a
     landlubber; in the country a cockney; in town a greenhorn; in science
     an ignoramus; in business a simpleton; in pleasure a
     milksop--everywhere out of his element, everywhere at sea, in the
     clouds, adrift, or by whatever word utter ignorance and
     incapacity are to be described. In society and in the work of life,
     he finds himself beaten by the youth whom at college he despised as
     frivolous or abhorred as profligate."

Take the preparation of our youth for their duties as citizens. Here, again, a knowledge of
political and social economy is indispensable. We have seen the attention it receives; and
while two lessons a week for one hour, and that only to the senior class in its last term,
are given to American citizens on the Constitution of the United States and on International
Law, none whatever is given on the science of Government throughout the entire course of five
years!

I might go through the whole course of studies with similar results. Here and there, in this
or that class, a small amount of attention is given to some of the sciences omitted in the
other classes; but the entire record is one of the most disheartening character.

Words! words! engross almost exclusively the attention of the students from the hour they enter
the College until they leave it; and it is not to the five-and-twenty graduates the palm of
useful industry should be awarded, but to the many who, in discouragement, abandon a course
which tends to unfit them for the great battle of life!

What, then, are the reasons generally assigned for this perverse conventionalism of devoting
the time of youth to the acquirement of dead words, to the unavoidable exclusion of nearly
every thing that is of value? First, we are told that we can not understand the English language
without a knowledge of Latin, from which it is derived. The inaccuracy of this pretension is
at once made manifest by reference to Webster, where he states:

     "That English is composed of--

     "First. Saxon and Danish words of Teutonic and Gothic origin.

     "Second. British or Welsh, Cornish and Amoric, which may be
     considered as of Celtic origin.

     "Third. Norman, a mixture of French and Gothic.

     "Fourth. Latin, a language formed on the Celtic and Teutonic.

     "Fifth. French, chiefly Latin corrupted, but with a mixture of
     Celtic.

     "Sixth. Greek formed on the Celtic and Teutonic, with some Coptic.

     "Seventh. A few words directly from the Italian, Spanish, German,
     and other languages of the Continent.

     "Eighth. A few foreign words, introduced by commerce, or by
     political and literary intercourse.

     "Of these, the Saxon words constitute our mother-tongue, being
     words which our ancestors brought with them from Asia.

     "The Danish and Welsh also are primitive words, and may be considered
     as a part of our vernacular language. They are of equal antiquity
     with the Chaldee and Syriac."

But even were it true that our language was derived from the Latin, wherein lies the difficulty
in the way of the teacher explaining to his pupils the meanings of the parts of English words
which are of Latin origin, without the necessity of the pupil's acquiring the same knowledge
by the roundabout process of learning one thousand words he will never need, for one that may
at some time be to him of some service as a mnemonic?

Driven from this position, the advocates of "classical" studies tell us that the study of Latin
and Greek serves as a training for the intellect. Unquestionably the exercise of the faculties
of the mind serves to develop the faculties so exercised; yet if this were the object to be
attained, Hebrew, nay, Chinese, would be preferable to Latin; but SCIENCE develops the same
faculties, and far more efficiently. The facts of science to be stored up in the mind are so
infinite in number and magnitude that no man, however gifted, could ever hope to master them
all, though he were to live a thousand years. But their arrangement in scientific order not
only develops the analytical powers of the mind, but exercises the memory in a method infinitely
more useful and powerful than the study of any language. Finally we are told classical studies
develop the taste. If then to this the advocates of such studies are driven, its mere announcement
must suffice to banish Latin and Greek from all schools supported by taxation; for however
essential it may be to provide the means of the best possible instruction, it is as absolutely
out of the sphere of the Trustees of Public Moneys to provide, at the public expense, so mere
a luxury as on this hypothesis Latin and Greek must be, as it would be to provide the public
with costly jewels! But even for the cultivation and development of art and taste, SCIENCE
is the true curriculum!

He who is ignorant of anatomy can not appreciate either sculpture or painting! A knowledge
of optics, of botany and of natural history, are necessary, equally to the artist or to the
connoisseur; a knowledge of acoustics to the musician and musical critic. "No artist," says
Mr. Spencer, "can produce a healthful work of whatever kind without he understands the laws
of the phenomena he represents; he must also understand how the minds of the spectator or listener
will be affected by his work--a question of psychology." The spectator or listener must equally
be acquainted with the laws of such phenomena, or he fails to attain to the highest appreciation.

I now come to the last and most serious aspect of this question, and I fearlessly assert that
classical studies have a most pernicious influence upon the morals and character of their votaries.

It should not be forgotten that Greeks and Romans alike lived by slavery (which is robbery),
by rapine, and by plunder; yet we, born into a Christian community which lives by honest labor,
propose to impregnate the impressionable minds of youth with the morals and literature of nations
of robbers!

This letter has already extended to so great a length that I am compelled to abstain from making
extracts from the works of the greatest thinkers, which I had desired: and I can now but cite
them in support, more or less pronounced, of the views above put forward, viz.: President Barnard,
of Columbia College, who with rare honesty and boldness has spoken loudly against the conventional
folly of classical studies; Professor Newman, himself Professor of Latin at the University
of London, England; Professors Tindall, Henfry, Huxley, Forbes, Pajet, Whewell, Faraday, Liebig,
Draper, De Morgan, Lindley, Youmans, Drs. Hodgson, Carpenter, Hooker, Acland, Sir John Herschell,
Sir Charles Lyell, Dr. Seguin, and, rising above them all in educational science, Bastiat and
Herbert Spencer. To a modified extent, the name of Mr. John Stuart Mill may be quoted--for
he loudly advocates science for all--science, which is unavoidably excluded by the introduction
of, or at least the prominence given to, Latin and Greek in our College. Mr. Mill, it is true
also, advocates classical studies, but for certain special classes which exist in England who
have no regular occupations in life.

Neither is it without importance as a guide to ourselves to observe that in the very best school
in this country--a school perhaps not surpassed by any in the world, viz., the Military Academy
at West Point--neither Latin nor Greek studies are permitted.

If now, in any career whatever, any use could be found for Latin, it must be in that of the
professional soldier, to whom, if to any one, the language and literature of the most military
people the world has ever seen, should be of some service. But no! the wise men who framed
the curriculum of West Point, though they knew that the study of the campaigns of the Romans
would be serviceable to their students, provided for their study, not by the roundabout method
of first learning a language which could never be of any other use, but by the direct method
of the study of those campaigns! Are the pupils of West Point generally found deficient in
intellect? Is not, on the contrary, the fact of having graduated at that school a passport
to the highest scientific and practical employment?

Our duty to the people is clear; let us neither waste the precious time of our youth on worse
than useless studies, nor the money of the citizens on worse than useless expenditure.

I do earnestly hope that our Committee will give to my observations their most serious deliberation.
Let us come to no hasty conclusion on this subject: accustomed as we have been to hear constantly
repeated such conventional phrases as that "Latin and Greek are essential to the education
of a gentleman;" that "classical studies are indispensable to a liberal education;" to hear
applauded to the echo orators who have introduced into their speeches quotations of bad Latin
or worse Greek by audiences of whom not one in one thousand understand what was said. We have
been apt to receive such phrases as embodying truths, without ever examining their foundations.
I respectfully urge the Committee to consider well before they act, to study the reasons assigned
by the great thinkers I have named for condemning, as, humbly following in their wake, I venture
to condemn, as worse than mere waste of time, the years devoted to Latin and Greek studies.

Let us endeavor to make the College of this city worthy of the city and of the state; let us
cast aside the trammels of mediæval ignorance, and supply to the pupils of the College "the
culture demanded by modern life." Let us in this, the first important matter which has come
before our Committee, act in harmony and without prejudice, for the welfare of the College
and "for the advancement of learning," and so prove ourselves worthy of the sacred trust we
have assumed.

The Philosophy of Teaching.

THE TEACHER, THE PUPIL, THE SCHOOL.

BY NATHANIEL SANDS.

8vo, Cloth, $1 00.

An interesting and valuable work, in which the science of teaching is treated in a philosophical
and practical manner, and a sketch is given of a school to be established on the principles
developed in his pages.

He advocates a radical change in the system of teaching youth. He proposes a school where pupils
shall be taught by illustrations from nature as well as from books; where the museum, chemical
laboratory, and workshop shall find a place; where, in short, the mind of the learner shall
not be forced, but shall have just the kind of food suitable for its age and development.--N.
Y. World.

Much has been written upon education--much that is both wise and thoughtful, and much that
has been but sound. Among the most thoughtful and suggestive recent writings is an unpretentious
work bearing the title of "The Teacher, the Pupil, the School," by Mr. Nathaniel Sands. Small
as it is, it contains more ideas than many bulky volumes.--N. Y. Tribune.

The question with which he mainly concerns himself is whether Latin and Greek, and certain
other branches, shall be taught to the exclusion of more practical studies. He thinks that
what is commonly known as the "culture demanded by modern life"--chemistry, mining, anatomy,
natural history, political and social economy, the science of government, etc.--should take
the place now usurped by classical studies. Mr. Sands believes in making no compromise between
the useful sciences and the classics. He condemns "as worse than mere waste of time the years
devoted to Greek and Latin," and would bar them out altogether.--Journal of Commerce.

Mr. Sands, who has just been appointed one of the new Board of Education, has long been known
as an advanced thinker on the subject he is now called upon to deal with. He has published
a pamphlet on the Philosophy of Education.--N. Y. Sun.

We have in this compact and unpretentious treatise a great deal of pith and acumen, brought
to bear upon a most important subject--that of educational first principles. Mr. Sands has
gone to the base of human teaching, discarding pretentious themes, in order to illustrate the
simpler beauty of that eductive and inductive co-relationship which, beginning at the mother's
breast, proceeds through all the quiet processes of mental development in infancy, childhood,
and maturity.--N. Y. Dispatch.

His hints may well arrest the attention of thoughtful men.--N. Y. Tribune.

We commend it to the thoughtful consideration of all, but especially of our public men. * *
* Commissioners of Schools and others charged with youthful training may advantageously consider
the reflections.--N. Y. Evening Post.

WORKS ON EDUCATION

PUBLISHED BY

HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK.

RANDALL'S POPULAR EDUCATION. First Principles of Popular Education and Public Instruction.
By S. S. RANDALL, Superintendent of Public Schools of the City of New York. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50.

BURTON'S OBSERVING FACULTIES. The Culture of the Observing Faculties in the Family and the
School; or, Things about Home, and how to make them Instructive to the Young. By WARREN BURTON,
Author of "The District School as it was," "Helps to Education," &c. 16mo, Cloth, 75 cents.

CALKINS'S PRIMARY OBJECT LESSONS. Primary Object Lessons for a Graduated Course of Development.
A Manual for Teachers and Parents, with Lessons for the Proper Training of the Faculties of
the Children. By N. A. CALKINS. Illustrations. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50.

WILLSON'S OBJECT LESSONS A Manual of Information and Suggestions for Object Lessons, in a Course
of Elementary Instruction. Adapted to the Use of the School and Family Charts, and other Aids
in Teaching. By MARCIUS WILLSON. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50.

ABBOTT'S TEACHER. Moral Influences Employed in the Instruction and Government of the Young.
By JACOB ABBOTT. With Engravings. 12mo, Cloth, $1 75.

BOESÉ'S EDUCATION IN NEW YORK CITY. By THOMAS BOESÉ, Clerk of the Board. With Illustrations.
8vo, Cloth, $1 50.

BEECHER'S TRAINING OF CHILDREN. The Religious Training of Children in the Family, the School,
and the Church. By CATHARINE E. BEECHER. 12mo, Cloth, $1 75.

EDGEWORTH'S PRACTICAL EDUCATION. A Treatise on Practical Education. By RICHARD LOVELL EDGEWORTH
and MARIA EDGEWORTH. Engravings. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50.

SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON'S ESSAYS. Discussions on Philosophy and Literature, Education and University
Reform. Chiefly from the Edinburgh Review. Corrected, Vindicated, and Enlarged, in Notes and
Appendices. By Sir WILLIAM HAMILTON, Bart. With an Introductory Essay, by Rev. ROBERT TURNBULL,
D.D. 8vo, Cloth, $3 00.

DR. OLIN'S COLLEGE ADDRESSES. College Life: its Theory and Practice. By Rev. STEPHEN OLIN,
D.D., L.L.D., late President of the Wesleyan University. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50.

POTTER & EMERSON'S MANUAL. The School and the Schoolmaster. A Manual for the Use of Teachers,
Employers, Trustees, Inspectors, &c., &c. In Two Parts. Part I. By Rt. Rev. ALONZO POTTER,
D.D. Part II. By GEORGE B. EMERSON, A.M., of Massachusetts. Engravings. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50.

EVERETT ON PRACTICAL EDUCATION. Importance of Practical Education and Useful Knowledge: being
a Selection from the Orations and Discourses of EDWARD EVERETT, President of Harvard University.
12mo, Cloth, $1 50.

Passages in italics are indicated by underscore.