"I do you no wrong," she answered hotly, then stopped, unwilling haply to be drawn into contention
with me. "Enfin, since you have said what you came to say will you go?" And she pointed to
the door.

"Mademoiselle, mademoiselle--" I began in a voice of earnest intercession.

"Go!" she interrupted angrily, and for a second the violence of her voice and gesture almost
reminded me of the Vicomtesse. "I will hear no more from you."

"Mademoiselle, you shall," I answered no whit less firmly.

"I will not listen to you. Talk if you will. You shall have the walls for audience." And she
moved towards the door, but I barred her passage. I was courteous to the last degree; I bowed
low before her as I put myself in her way.

"It is all that was wanting--that you should offer me violence!" she exclaimed.

"God forbid!" said I.

"Then let me pass."

"Aye, when you have heard me."

"I do not wish to hear you. Nothing that you may say can matter to me. Oh, monsieur, if you
have any instincts of gentility, if you have any pretension to be accounted anything but a
mauvais sujet, I beg of you to respect my grief. You witnessed, yourself, the arrest of my
father. This is no season for such as scene as you are creating."

"Pardon! It is in such a season as this that you need the comfort and support that the man
you love alone can give you."

"The man I love?" she echoed, and from flushed that they had been, her cheeks went very pale.
Her eyes fell for an instant, then--they were raised again, and their blue depths were offered
me. "I think, sir," she said, through her teeth, "that your insolence transcends all belief."

"Can you deny it?" I cried. "Can you deny that you love me? If you can--why, then, you lied
to me three nights ago at Toulouse!"

That smote her hard--so hard that she forgot her assurance that she would not listen to me--her
promise to herself that she would stoop to no contention with me.

"If, in a momentary weakness, in my nescience of you as you truly are, I did make some such
admission, I did entertain such feelings for you, things have come to my knowledge since then,
monsieur, that have revealed you to me as another man; I have learnt something that has utterly
withered such love as I then confessed. Now, monsieur, are you satisfied, and will you let
me pass?" She said the last words with a return of her imperiousness, already angry at having
been drawn so far.

"I am satisfied, mademoiselle," I answered brutally, "that you did not speak the truth three
nights ago. You never loved me. It was pity that deluded you, shame that urged you--shame at
the Delilah part you had played and at your betrayal of me. Now, mademoiselle, you may pass,"
said I.

And I stood aside, assured that as she was a woman she would not pass me now. Nor did she.
She recoiled a step instead. Her lip quivered. Then she recovered quickly. Her mother might
have told her that she was a fool for engaging herself in such a duel with me--me, the veteran
of a hundred amorous combats. Yet though I doubt not it was her first assault-at-arms of this
description, she was more than a match for me, as her next words proved.

"Monsieur, I thank you for enlightening me. I cannot, indeed, have spoken the truth three nights
ago. You are right, I do not doubt it now, and you lift from me a load of shame."

Dieu! It was like a thrust in the high lines, and its hurtful violence staggered me. I was
finished, it seemed. The victory was hers, and she but a child with no practice of Cupid's
art of fence!

"Now, monsieur," she added, "now that you are satisfied that you did wrong to say I loved you,
now that we have disposed of that question--adieu!"

"A moment yet!" I cried. "We have disposed of that, but there was another point, an earlier
one, which for the moment we have disregarded. We have--you have disproved the love I was so
presumptuous as to believe you fostered for me. We have yet to reckon with the love I bear
you, mademoiselle, and of that we shall not be able to dispose so readily."

With a gesture of weariness or of impatience, she turned aside. "What is it you want? What
do you seek to gain by thus provoking me? To win your wager?" Her voice was cold. Who to have
looked upon that childlike face, upon those meek, pondering eyes, could have believed her capable
of so much cruelty?

"There can no longer be any question of my wager; I have lost and paid it," said I.

She looked up suddenly. Her brows met in a frown of bewilderment. Clearly this interested her.
Again was she drawn.

"How?" she asked. "You have lost and paid it?"

"Even so. That odious, cursed, infamous wager, was the something which I hinted at so often
as standing between you and me. The confession that so often I was on the point of making--that
so often you urged me to make--concerned that wager. Would to God, Roxalanne, that I had told
you!" I cried, and it seemed to me that the sincerity ringing in my voice drove some of the
harshness from her countenance, some of the coldness from her glance.

"Unfortunately," I pursued, "it always seemed to me either not yet time, or already too late.
Yet so soon as I regained my liberty, my first thought was of that. While the wager existed
I might not ask you to become my wife, lest I should seem to be carrying out the original intention
which embarked me upon the business of wooing you, and brought me here to Languedoc. And so
my first step was to seek out Chatellerault and deliver him my note of hand for my Picardy
possessions, the bulk--by far the greater bulk--of all my fortune. My second step was to repair
to you at the Hotel de l'Epee.

"At last I could approach you with clean hands; I could confess what I had done; and since
it seemed to me that I had made the utmost atonement, I was confident of success. Alas! I came
too late. In the porch of the auberge I met you as you came forth. From my talkative intendant
you had learnt already the story of that bargain into which Bardelys had entered. You had learnt
who I was, and you thought that you had learnt why I wooed you. Accordingly you could but despise
me."

She had sunk into a chair. Her hands were folded in a listless manner in her lap, and her eyes
were lowered, her cheeks pale. But the swift heave of her bosom told me that my words were
not without effect. "Do you know nothing of the bargain that I made with Chatellerault?" she
asked in a voice that held, I thought, some trace of misery.

"Chatellerault was a cheat!" I cried. "No man of honour in France would have accounted himself
under obligation to pay that wager. I paid it, not because I thought the payment due, but that
by its payment I might offer you a culminating proof of my sincerity."

"Be that as it may," said she, "I passed him my word to--to marry him, if he set you at liberty."

"The promise does not hold, for when you made it I was at liberty already. Besides, Chatellerault
is dead by now--or very near it."

"Dead?" she echoed, looking up.

"Yes, dead. We fought--" The ghost of a smile, of sudden, of scornful understanding, passed
like a ray of light across her face. "Pardieu!" I cried, "you do me a wrong there. It was not
by my hands that he fell. It was not by me that the duel was instigated."

And with that I gave her the whole details of the affair, including the information that Chatellerault
had been no party to my release, and that for his attempted judicial murder of me the King
would have dealt very hardly with him had he not saved the King the trouble by throwing himself
upon his sword:

There was a silence when I had done. Roxalanne sat on, and seemed to ponder. To let all that
I had said sink in and advocate my cause, as to me was very clear it must, I turned aside and
moved to one of the windows.

"Why did you not tell me before?" she asked suddenly. "Why--oh, why--did you not confess to
me the whole infamous affair as soon as you came to love me, as you say you did?"

"As I say I did?" I repeated after her. "Do you doubt it? Can you doubt it in the face of what
I have done?"

"Oh, I don't know what to believe!" she cried, a sob in her voice. "You have deceived me so
far, so often. Why did you not tell me that night on the river? Or later, when I pressed you
in this very house? Or again, the other night in the prison of Toulouse?"

"You ask me why. Can you not answer the question for yourself? Can you not conceive the fear
that was in me that you should shrink away from me in loathing? The fear that if you cared
a little, I might for all time stifle such affection as you bore me? The fear that I must ruin
your trust in me? Oh, mademoiselle, can you not see how my only hope lay in first owning defeat
to Chatellerault, in first paying the wager?"

"How could you have lent yourself to such a bargain?" was her next question.

"How, indeed?" I asked in my turn. "From your mother you have heard something of the reputation
that attaches to Bardelys. I was a man of careless ways, satiated with all the splendours life
could give me, nauseated by all its luxuries. Was it wonderful that I allowed myself to be
lured into this affair? It promised some excitement, a certain novelty, difficulties in a path
that I had--alas!--ever found all too smooth--for Chatellerault had made your reputed coldness
the chief bolster of his opinion that I should not win.

"Again, I was not given to over-nice scruples. I make no secret of my infirmities, but do not
blame me too much. If you could see the fine demoiselles we have in Paris, if you could listen
to their tenets and take a deep look into their lives, you would not marvel at me. I had never
known any but these. On the night of my coming to Lavedan, your sweetness, your pure innocence,
your almost childish virtue, dazed me by their novelty. From that first moment I became your
slave. Then I was in your garden day by day. And here, in this old Languedoc garden with you
and your roses, during the languorous days of my convalescence, is it wonderful that some of
the purity, some of the sweetness that was of you and of your roses, should have crept into
my heart and cleansed it a little? Ah, mademoiselle!" I cried--and, coming close to her, I
would have bent my knee in intercession but that she restrained me.

"Monsieur," she interrupted, "we harass ourselves in vain. This can have but one ending."

Her tones were cold, but the coldness I knew was forced--else had she not said "we harass ourselves."
Instead of quelling my ardour, it gave it fuel.

"True, mademoiselle," I cried, almost exultantly. "It can end but one way!"

She caught my meaning, and her frown deepened. I went too fast, it seemed.

"It had better end now, monsieur. There is too much between us. You wagered to win me to wife."
She shuddered. "I could never forget it."

"Mademoiselle," I denied stoutly, "I did not."

"How?" She caught her breath. "You did not?"

"No," I pursued boldly. "I did not wager to win you. I wagered to win a certain Mademoiselle
de Lavedan, who was unknown to me--but not you, not you."

She smiled, with never so slight a touch of scorn.

"Your distinctions are very fine--too fine for me, monsieur."

"I implore you to be reasonable. Think reasonably."

"Am I not reasonable? Do I not think? But there is so much to think of!" she sighed. "You carried
your deception so far. You came here, for instance, as Monsieur de Lesperon. Why that duplicity?"

"Again, mademoiselle, I did not," said I.

She glanced at me with pathetic disdain.

"Indeed, indeed, monsieur, you deny things very bravely."

"Did I tell you that my name was Lesperon? Did I present myself to monsieur your father as
Lesperon?"

"Surely--yes."

"Surely no; a thousand times no. I was the victim of circumstances in that, and if I turned
them to my own account after they had been forced upon me, shall I be blamed and accounted
a cheat? Whilst I was unconscious, your father, seeking for a clue to my identity, made an
inspection of my clothes.

"In the pocket of my doublet they found some papers addressed to Rene de Lesperon--some love
letters, a communication from the Duc d'Orleans, and a woman's portrait. From all of this it
was assumed that I was that Lesperon. Upon my return to consciousness your father greeted me
effusively, whereat I wondered; he passed on to discuss--nay, to tell me of--the state of the
province and of his own connection with the rebels, until I lay gasping at his egregious temerity.
Then, when he greeted me as Monsieur de Lesperon, I had the explanation of it, but too late.
Could I deny the identity then? Could I tell him that I was Bardelys, the favourite of the
King himself? What would have occurred? I ask you, mademoiselle. Would I not have been accounted
a spy, and would they not have made short work of me here at your chateau?"

"No, no; they would have done no murder."

"Perhaps not, but I could not be sure just then. Most men situated as your father was would
have despatched me. Ah, mademoiselle, have you not proofs enough? Do you not believe me now?"

"Yes, monsieur," she answered simply, "I believe you."

"Will you not believe, then, in the sincerity of my love?"

She made no rely. Her face was averted, but from her silence I took heart. I drew close to
her. I set my hand upon the tall back of her chair, and, leaning towards her, I spoke with
passionate heat as must have melted, I thought, any woman who had not a loathing for me.

"Mademoiselle; I am a poor man now," I ended. "I am no longer that magnificent gentleman whose
wealth and splendour were a byword. Yet am I no needy adventurer. I have a little property
at Beaugency--a very spot for happiness, mademoiselle. Paris shall know me no more. At Beaugency
I shall live at peace, in seclusion, and, so that you come with me, in such joy as in all my
life I have done nothing to deserve. I have no longer an army of retainers. A couple of men
and a maid or two shall constitute our household. Yet I shall account my wealth well lost if
for love's sake you'll share with me the peace of my obscurity. I am poor, mademoiselle yet
no poorer even now than that Gascon gentleman, Rene de Lesperon, for whom you held me, and
on whom you bestowed the priceless treasure of your heart."

"Oh, might it have pleased God that you had remained that poor Gascon gentleman!" she cried.

"In what am I different, Roxalanne?"

"In that he had laid no wager," she answered, rising suddenly.

My hopes were withering. She was not angry. She was pale, and her gentle face was troubled--dear
God! how sorely troubled! To me it almost seemed that I had lost.

She flashed me a glance of her blue eyes, and I thought that tears impended.

"Roxalanne!" I supplicated.

But she recovered the control that for a moment she had appeared upon the verge of losing.
She put forth her hand.

"Adieu, monsieur!" said she.

I glanced from her hand to her face. Her attitude began to anger me, for I saw that she was
not only resisting me, but resisting herself. In her heart the insidious canker of doubt persisted.
She knew--or should have known--that it no longer should have any place there, yet obstinately
she refrained from plucking it out. There was that wager. But for that same obstinacy she must
have realized the reason of my arguments, the irrefutable logic of my payment. She denied me,
and in denying me she denied herself, for that she had loved me she had herself told me, and
that she could love me again I was assured, if she would but see the thing in the light of
reason and of justice.

"Roxalanne, I did not come to Lavedan to say 'Good-bye' to you. I seek from you a welcome,
not a dismissal."

"Yet my dismissal is all that I can give. Will you not take my hand? May we not part in friendly
spirit?"

"No, we may not; for we do not part at all."

It was as the steel of my determination striking upon the flint of hers. She looked up to my
face for an instant; she raised her eyebrows in deprecation; she sighed, shrugged one shoulder,
and, turning on her heel, moved towards the door.

"Anatole shall bring you refreshment ere you go," she said in a very polite and formal voice.

Then I played my last card. Was it for nothing that I had flung away my wealth? If she would
not give herself, by God, I would compel her to sell herself. And I took no shame in doing
it, for by doing it I was saving her and saving myself from a life of unhappiness.

"Roxalanne!" I cried. The imperiousness of my voice arrested and compelled her perhaps against
her very will.

"Monsieur?" said she, as demurely as you please.

"Do you know what you are doing?".

"But yes--perfectly."

"Pardieu, you do not. I will tell you. You are sending your father to the scaffold."

She turned livid, her step faltered, and she leant against the frame of the doorway for support.
Then she stared at me, wide-eyed in horror.

"That is not true," she pleaded, yet without conviction. "He is not in danger of his life.
They can prove nothing against him. Monsieur de Saint-Eustache could find no evidence here--nothing."

"Yet there is Monsieur de Saint-Eustache's word; there is the fact--the significant fact--that
your father did not take up arms for the King, to afford the Chevalier's accusation some measure
of corroboration. At Toulouse in these times they are not particular. Remember how it had fared
with me but for the King's timely arrival."

That smote home. The last shred of her strength fell from her. A great sob shook her, then
covering her face with her hands "Mother in heaven, have pity on me!" she cried. "Oh, it cannot
be, it cannot be!"

Her distress touched me sorely. I would have consoled her, I would have bidden her have no
fear, assuring her that I would save her father. But for my own ends, I curbed the mood. I
would use this as a cudgel to shatter her obstinacy, and I prayed that God might forgive me
if I did aught that a gentleman should account unworthy. My need was urgent, my love all-engrossing;
winning her meant winning life and happiness, and already I had sacrificed so much. Her cry
rang still in my ears, "It cannot be, it cannot be!"

I trampled my nascent tenderness underfoot, and in its room I set a harshness that I did not
feel--a harshness of defiance and menace.

"It can be, it will be, and, as God lives, it shall be, if you persist in your unreasonable
attitude."

"Monsieur, have mercy!"

"Yes, when you shall be pleased to show me the way to it by having mercy upon me. If I have
sinned, I have atoned. But that is a closed question now; to reopen it were futile. Take heed
of this, Roxalanne: there is one thing--one only in all France can save your father."

"That is, monsieur?" she inquired breathlessly.

"My word against that of Saint-Eustache. My indication to His Majesty that your father's treason
is not to be accepted on the accusation of Saint-Eustache. My information to the King of what
I know touching this gentleman."

"You will go, monsieur?" she implored me. "Oh, you will save him! Mon Dieu, to think of the
time that we have wasted here, you and I, whilst he is being carried to the scaffold! Oh, I
did not dream it was so perilous with him! I was desolated by his arrest; I thought of some
months' imprisonment, perhaps. But that he should die--! Monsieur de Bardelys, you will save
him! Say that you will do this for me!"

She was on her knees to me now, her arms clasping my boots, her eyes raised in entreaty--God,
what entreaty!--to my own.

"Rise, mademoiselle, I beseech you," I said, with a quiet I was far from feeling. "There is
no need for this. Let us be calm. The danger to your father is not so imminent. We may have
some days yet--three or four, perhaps."

I lifted her gently and led her to a chair. I was hard put to it not to hold her supported
in my arms. But I might not cull that advantage from her distress. A singular niceness, you
will say, perhaps, as in your scorn you laugh at me. Perhaps you are right to laugh--yet are
you not altogether right.

"You will go to Toulouse, monsieur?" she begged.

I took a turn in the room, then halting before her "Yes," I answered, "I will go."

The gratitude that leapt to her eyes smote me hard, for my sentence was unfinished.

"I will go," I continued quickly, "when you shall have promised to become my wife."

The joy passed from her face. She glanced at me a moment as if without understanding.

"I came to Lavedan to win you, Roxalanne, and from Lavedan I shall not stir until I have accomplished
my design," I said very quietly. "You will therefore see that it rests with you how soon I
may set out."

She fell to weeping softly, but answered nothing. At last I turned from her and moved towards
the door.

"Where are you going?" she cried.

"To take the air, mademoiselle. If upon deliberation you can bring yourself to marry me, send
me word by Anatole or one of the others, and I shall set out at once for Toulouse."

"Stop!" she cried. Obediently I stopped, my hand already upon the doorknob. "You are cruel,
monsieur!" she complained.

"I love you," said I, by way of explaining it. "To be cruel seems to be the way of love. You
have been cruel to me."

"Would you--would you take what is not freely given?"

"I have the hope that when you see that you must give, you will give freely."

"If--if I make you this promise--"

"Yes?" I was growing white with eagerness.

"You will fulfil your part of the bargain?"

"It is a habit of mine, mademoiselle--as witnesses the case of Chatellerault." She shivered
at the mention of his name. It reminded her of precisely such another bargain that three nights
ago she had made. Precisely, did I say? Well, not quite precisely.

"I--I promise to marry you, then," said she in a choking voice, "whenever you choose, after
my father shall have been set at liberty."

I bowed. "I shall start at once," said I.

And perhaps out of shame, perhaps out of--who shall say what sentiments?--I turned without
another word and left her.

CHAPTER XX. THE "BRAVI" AT BLAGNAC

I was glad to be in the open once more--glad of the movement, as I rode at the head of my brave
company along the bank of the Garonne and in the shade of the golden, autumn-tinted trees.

I was in a measure angry with myself that I had driven such a bargain with Roxalanne, in a
measure angry with her that she had forced me to it by her obstinacy. A fine gentleman I, on
my soul, to have dubbed Chatellerault a cheat for having done no worse than I had now brought
myself to do! Yet, was it so? No, I assured myself, it was not. A thousand times no! What I
had done I had done as much to win Roxalanne to me as to win her from her own unreasonableness.
In the days to come she should thank me for my harshness, for that which now she perhaps accounted
my unfairness.

Then, again, would I ask myself, was I very sure of this? And so the two questions were flung
the one against the other; my conscience divided itself into two parties, and they waged a
war that filled me with a depressing uncertainty.

In the end shame was overthrown, and I flung back my head with a snort of assurance. I was
doing no wrong. On the contrary, I was doing right--both by myself and by Roxalanne. What matter
that I was really cheating her? What matter that I had said I would not leave Lavedan until
I had her promise, whilst in reality I had hurled my threat at Saint-Eustache that I would
meet him at Toulouse, and passed my word to the Vicomtesse that I would succour her husband?

I gave no thought to the hidden threat with which Saint-Eustache had retorted that from Lavedan
to Toulouse was a distance of some twenty leagues. Had he been a man of sterner purposes I
might have been uneasy and on my guard. But Saint-Eustache pshaw!

It is ill to underestimate an enemy, be he never so contemptible, and for my disdain of the
Chevalier I might have paid dearly had not Fortune--which of late had been practising singular
jests upon me after seemingly abandoning me, returned to my aid at the last moment.

It was Saint-Eustache's purpose that I should never reach Toulouse alive, for in all the world
I was the one man he feared, the one man who would encompass his undoing and destruction by
a word. And so he had resolved and disposed that I should be removed, and to accomplish this
he had left a line of bravi along the road I was to pass.

He had counted upon my lying the night in one of the intervening towns, for the journey was
over-long to be accomplished at a stretch, and wherever I might chance to lie, there I should
have to reckon with his assassins. The nearer Toulouse--although I knew not this--the thicker
grew my danger. Into the very thick of it I rode; in the very thick of it I lay, and all that
came of it was that I obtained possession of one more and overwhelming piece of evidence against
my murderous Chevalier. But I outrun my story.

It had been my purpose to change horses at Grenade, and so push on and reach Toulouse that
very night or in the early hours of the following morning. At Grenade, however, there were
no horses to be obtained, at least not more than three, and so, leaving the greater portion
of my company behind, I set out, escorted only by Gilles and Antoine. Night had fallen long
before we reached Lespinasse, and with it came foul weather. The wind rose from the west, grew
to the violence of a hurricane, and brought with it such a deluge of cold, cutting rain as
never had it been my ill-chance to ride through. From Lespinasse to Fenouillet the road dips
frequently, and wherever this occurred it seemed to us that we were riding in a torrent, our
horses fetlock-deep in mud.

Antoine complained in groans; Gilles growled openly, and went the length of begging me, as
we rode through the ill-paved, flooded streets of Fenouillet, to go no farther. But I was adamant
in my resolve. Soaked to the skin, my clothes hanging sodden about me, and chilled to the marrow
though I was, I set my chattering teeth, and swore that we should not sleep until we reached
Toulouse.

"My God," he groaned, "and we but halfway!"

"Forward!" was all I answered; and so as midnight chimed we left Fenouillet behind us, and
dashed on into the open country and the full fury of the tempest.

My servants came after me upon their stumbling horses, whining and cursing by turns, and forgetting
in their misery the respect that they were accustomed to pay me. I think now that it was a
providence that guided me. Had I halted at Fenouillet, as they would have had me do, it is
odds that this chronicle would never have been penned, for likely enough I had had my throat
cut as I slept. A providence was it also that brought my horse down within a half-mile of Blagnac,
and so badly did it founder that it might not be ridden farther.

The beasts my men bestrode were in little better condition, and so, with infinite chagrin,
I was forced to acknowledge defeat and to determine that at Blagnac we should lie for the remainder
of the night. After all, it mattered little. A couple of hours' riding in the morning would
bring us to Toulouse, and we would start betimes.

I bade Gilles dismount--he had been the louder in his complainings--and follow us afoot, bringing
my horse to the Auberge de l'Etoile at Blagnac, where he would await him. Then I mounted his
jaded beast, and, accompanied by Antoine--the last of my retainers--I rode into Blagnac, and
pulled up at the sign of the "Star."

With my whip I smote the door, and I had need to smite hard if I would be heard above the wind
that shrieked and howled under the eaves of that narrow street. Yet it almost seemed as if
some one were expected, for scarce had my knocking ceased when the door was opened, and the
landlord stood there, shading a taper with his hand. For a moment I saw the glow of its light
on his rosy, white-bearded face, then a gust of wind extinguished it.

"Diable!" he swore, "an ugly night for travelling"; adding as an afterthought, "You ride late,
monsieur."

"You are a man of supreme discernment, Monsieur l'Hote," said I testily, as I pushed him aside
and stepped into the passage. "Will you keep me in the rain till daylight whilst you perpend
how late I ride? Is your ostler abed? See to those beasts yourself, then. Afterwards get me
food--for me and for my man and beds for both of us."

"I have but one room, monsieur," he answered respectfully. "You shall have that, and your servant
shall sleep in the hayloft."

"My servant sleeps in my room, if you have but one. Set a mattress on the floor for him. Is
this a night to leave a dog to sleep in a hayloft? I have another servant following. He will
be here in a few minutes. You must find room for him also--in the passage outside my door,
if no other accommodation be possible."

"But, monsieur--" he began in a tone of protest, which I set down to the way a landlord has
of making difficulties that he shall be the better paid for such lodging as he finds us.

"See to it," I ordered peremptorily. "You shall be well paid. Now go tend those horses."

On the wall of the passage fell a warm, reddish glow from the common room, which argued a fire,
and this was too alluring to admit of my remaining longer in discussion with him. I strode
forward, therefore. The Auberge de l'Etoile was not an imposing hostelry, nor one at which
from choice I had made a halt. This common room stank most vilely of oil, of burning tallow--from
the smoky tapers--and of I know not what other noisome unsavourinesses.

As I entered, I was greeted by a resonant snore from a man seated in a corner by the fire.
His head had fallen back, displaying the brown, sinewy neck, and he slept--or seemed to sleep--with
mouth wide open. Full length on the hearth and in the red glare of the burning logs lay what
at first glance I took to be a heap of rags, but which closer scrutiny showed me to be another
man, seemingly asleep also.

I flung my sodden castor on the table; I dropped my drenched cloak on the ground, and stepped
with heavy tread and a noisy rattle of spurs across the floor. Yet my ragged gentleman slept
on. I touched him lightly with my whip.

"Hold, mon bonhomme!" I cried to him. Still he did not move, whereat I lost patience and caught
him a kick full in the side, so choicely aimed that first it doubled him up, then brought him
into a sitting posture, with the snarl of a cross-grained dog that has been rudely aroused.

From out of an evil, dirty countenance a pair of gloomy, bloodshot eyes scowled threateningly
upon me. The man on the chair awoke at the same instant, and sat forward.

"Eh bien?" said I to my friend on the hearth: "Will you stir yourself?"

"For whom?" he growled. "Is not the Etoile as much for me as for you, whoever you may be?"

"We have paid our lodging, pardieu!" swore he of the chair.

"My masters," said I grimly, "if you have not eyes to see my sodden condition, and if you therefore
have not the grace to move that I may approach the fire; I'll see to it that you spend the
night not only a l'Etoile, but a la belle etoile." With which pleasantry, and a touch of the
foot, I moved my friend aside. My tone was not nice, nor do I generally have the air of promising
more than I can fulfil.

They were growling together in a corner when Antoine came to draw off my doublet and my boots.
They were still growling when Gilles joined us presently, although at his coming they paused
to take his measure with their eyes. For Gilles was something of a giant, and men were wont
to turn their heads--aye, and women too--to admire his fine proportions. We supped--so vilely
that I have not the heart to tell you what we ate--and, having supped, I bade my host light
me to my chamber. As for my men, I had determined that they should spend the night in the common
room, where there was a fire, and where--notwithstanding the company of those two ruffians,
into whose presence I had not troubled to inquire--they would doubtless be better than elsewhere
in that poor hostelry.

In gathering up my cloak and doublet and other effects to bear them off to the kitchen, the
host would have possessed himself also of my sword. But with a laugh I took it from him, remarking
that it required no drying.

As we mounted the stairs, I heard something above me that sounded like the creaking of a door.
The host heard it also, for he stood suddenly still, his glance very questioning.

"What was that?" said he.

"The wind, I should say," I answered idly; and my answer seemed to reassure him, for with a
"Ah, yes--the wind," he went on.

Now, for all that I am far from being a man of tremors or unwarranted fears, to tell the truth
the hostelry of the "Star" was beginning to fret my nerves. I could scarce have told you why
had you asked me, as I sat upon the bed after mine host had left me, and turned my thoughts
to it. It was none of the trivial incidents that had marked my coming; but it was, I think,
the combination of them all. First there was the host's desire to separate me from my men by
suggesting that they should sleep in the hayloft. Clearly unnecessary, when he was not averse
to turning his common room into a dormitory. There was his very evident relief when, after
announcing that I would have them sleep one in my room and one in the passage by my door, I
consented to their spending the night below; there was the presence of those two very ill-looking
cut-throats; there was the attempt to carry off my sword; and, lastly, there was that creaking
door and the host's note of alarm.

What was that?

I stood up suddenly. Had my fancy, dwelling upon that very incident, tricked me into believing
that a door had creaked again? I listened, but a silence followed, broken only by a drone of
voices ascending from the common room. As I had assured the host upon the stairs, so I now
assured myself that it was the wind, the signboard of the inn, perhaps, swaying in the storm.

And then, when I had almost dismissed my doubts, and was about to divest myself of my remaining
clothes, I saw something at which I thanked Heaven that I had not allowed the landlord to carry
off my rapier. My eyes were on the door, and, as I gazed, I beheld the slow raising of the
latch. It was no delusion; my wits were keen and my eyes sharp; there was no fear to make me
see things that were not. Softly I stepped to the bed-rail where I had hung my sword by the
baldrick, and as softly I unsheathed it. The door was pushed open, and I caught the advance
of a stealthy step. A naked foot shot past the edge of the door into my room, and for a second
I thought of pinning it to the ground with my rapier; then came a leg, then a half-dressed
body surmounted by a face--the face of Rodenard!

At sight of it, amazement and a hundred suspicions crossed my mind. How, in God's name, came
he here, and for what purpose did he steal so into my chamber?

But my suspicions perished even as they were begotten. There was so momentous, so alarmingly
warning a look on his face as he whispered the one word "Monseigneur!" that clearly if danger
there was to me it was not from him.

"What the devil--" I began.

But at the sound of my voice the alarm grew in his eyes.

"Sh!" he whispered, his finger on his lips. "Be silent, monseigneur, for Heaven's sake!"

Very softly he closed the door; softly, yet painfully, he hobbled forward to my side.

"There is a plot to murder you, monseigneur," he whispered.

"What! Here at Blagnac?"

He nodded fearfully.

"Bah!" I laughed. "You rave, man. Who was to know that I was to come this way? And who is there
to plot against my life?"

"Monsieur de Saint-Eustache." he answered.

"And for the rest, as to expecting you here, they did not, but they were prepared against the
remote chance of your coming. From what I have gathered, there is not a hostelry betwixt this
and Lavedan at which the Chevalier has not left his cutthroats with the promise of enormous
reward to the men who shall kill you."

I caught my breath at that. My doubts vanished.

"Tell me what you know," said I. "Be brief."

Thereupon this faithful dog, whom I had so sorely beaten but four nights ago, told me how,
upon finding himself able to walk once more, he had gone to seek me out, that he might implore
me to forgive him and not cast him off altogether, after a lifetime spent in the service of
my father and of myself.

He had discovered from Monsieur de Castelroux that I was gone to Lavedan, and he determined
to follow me thither. He had no horse and little money, and so he had set out afoot that very
day, and dragged himself as far as Blagnac, where, however, his strength had given out, and
he was forced to halt. A providence it seemed that this had so befallen. For here at the Etoile
he had that evening overheard Saint-Eustache in conversation with those two bravi below stairs.
It would seem from what he had said that at every hostelry from Grenade to Toulouse--at which
it was conceivable that I might spend the night--the Chevalier had made a similar provision.

At Blagnac, if I got so far without halting, I must arrive very late, and therefore the Chevalier
had bidden his men await me until daylight. He did not believe, however, that I should travel
so far, for he had seen to it that I should find no horses at the posthouses. But it was just
possible that I might, nevertheless, push on, and Saint-Eustache would let no possibility be
overlooked. Here at Blagnac the landlord, Rodenard informed me, was also in Saint-Eustache's
pay. Their intention was to stab me as I slept.

"Monseigneur," he ended, "knowing what danger awaited you along the road, I have sat up all
night, praying God and His saints that you might come this far, and that thus I might warn
you. Had I been less bruised and sore, I had got myself a horse and ridden out to meet you;
as it was, I could but hope and pray that you would reach Blagnac, and that--"

I gathered him into my arms at that, but my embrace drew a groan from him, for the poor, faithful
knave was very sore.

"My poor Ganymede!" I murmured, and I was more truly moved to sympathy, I think, than ever
I had been in all my selfish life. Hearing his sobriquet, a look of hope gleamed suddenly in
his eye.

"You will take me back, monseigneur?" he pleaded. "You will take me back, will you not? I swear
that I will never let my tongue--"

"Sh, my good Ganymede. Not only will I take you back, but I shall strive to make amends for
my brutality. Come, my friend, you shall have twenty golden Louis to buy unguents for your
poor shoulders."

"Monseigneur is very good," he murmured, whereupon I would have embraced him again but that
he shivered and drew back.

"No, no, monseigneur," he whispered fearfully. "It is a great honour, but it--it pains me to
be touched."

"Then take the will for the deed. And now for these gentlemen below stairs." I rose and moved
to the door.

"Order Gilles to beat their brains out," was Ganymede's merciful suggestion.

I shook my head. "We might be detained for doing murder. We have no proof yet of their intentions--I
think--" An idea flashed suddenly across my mind. "Go back to your room, Ganymede," I bade
him. "Lock yourself in, and do not stir until I call you. I do not wish their suspicions aroused."

I opened the door, and as Ganymede obediently slipped past me and vanished down the passage
"Monsieur l'Hote," I called. "Ho, there, Gilles!"

"Monsieur," answered the landlord.

"Monseigneur," replied Gilles; and there came a stir below.

"Is aught amiss?" the landlord questioned, a note of concern in his voice.

"Amiss?" I echoed peevishly, mincing my words as I uttered them. "Pardi! Must I be put to it
to undress myself, whilst those two lazy dogs of mine are snoring beneath me? Come up this
instant, Gilles. And," I added as an afterthought, "you had best sleep here in my room."

"At once, monseigneur," answered he, but I caught the faintest tinge of surprise in his accents,
for never yet had it fallen to the lot of sturdy, clumsy Gilles to assist me at my toilet.

The landlord muttered something, and I heard Gilles whispering his reply. Then the stairs creaked
under his heavy tread.

In my room I told him in half a dozen words what was afoot. For answer, he swore a great oath
that the landlord had mulled a stoup of wine for him, which he never doubted now was drugged.
I bade him go below and fetch the wine, telling the landlord that I, too had a fancy for it.

"But what of Antoine?" he asked. "They will drug him."

"Let them. We can manage this affair, you and I, without his help. If they did not drug him,
they might haply stab him. So that in being drugged lies his safety."

As I bade him so he did, and presently he returned with a great steaming measure. This I emptied
into a ewer, then returned it to him that he might take it back to the host with my thanks
and our appreciation. Thus should we give them confidence that the way was clear and smooth
for them.

Thereafter there befell precisely that which already you will be expecting, and nothing that
you cannot guess. It was perhaps at the end of an hour's silent waiting that one of them came.
We had left the door unbarred so that his entrance was unhampered. But scarce was he within
when out of the dark, on either side of him, rose Gilles and I. Before he had realized it,
he was lifted off his feet and deposited upon the bed without a cry; the only sound being the
tinkle of the knife that dropped from his suddenly unnerved hand.

On the bed, with Gilles's great knee in his stomach, and Gilles's hands at his throat, he was
assured in unequivocal terms that at his slightest outcry we would make an end of him. I kindled
a light. We trussed him hand and foot with the bedclothes, and then, whilst he lay impotent
and silent in his terror, I proceeded to discuss the situation with him.

I pointed out that we knew that what he had done he had done at Saint-Eustache's instigation,
therefore the true guilt was Saint-Eustache's and upon him alone the punishment should fall.
But ere this could come to pass, he himself must add his testimony to ours--mine and Rodenard's.
If he would come to Toulouse and do that make a full confession of how he had been set to do
this murdering--the Chevalier de Saint-Eustache, who was the real culprit, should be the only
one to suffer the penalty of the law. If he would not do that, why, then, he must stand the
consequences himself--and the consequences would be the hangman. But in either case he was
coming to Toulouse in the morning.

It goes without saying that he was reasonable. I never for a moment held his judgment in doubt;
there is no loyalty about a cut-throat, and it is not the way of his calling to take unnecessary
risk.

We had just settled the matter in a mutually agreeable manner when the door opened again, and
his confederate--rendered uneasy, no doubt, by his long absence--came to see what could be
occasioning this unconscionable delay in the slitting of the throats of a pair of sleeping men.

Beholding us there in friendly conclave, and no doubt considering that under the circumstances
his intrusion was nothing short of an impertinence, that polite gentleman uttered a cry--which
I should like to think was an apology for having disturbed us and turned to go with most indecorous
precipitancy.

But Gilles took him by the nape of his dirty neck and haled him back into the room. In less
time than it takes me to tell of it, he lay beside his colleague, and was being asked whether
he did not think that he might also come to take the same view of the situation. Overjoyed
that we intended no worse by him, he swore by every saint in the calendar that he would do
our will, that he had reluctantly undertaken the Chevalier's business, that he was no cut-throat,
but a poor man with a wife and children to provide for.

And that, in short, was how it came to pass that the Chevalier de Saint-Eustache himself, by
disposing for my destruction, disposed only for his own. With these two witnesses, and Rodenard
to swear how Saint-Eustache had bribed them to cut my throat, with myself and Gilles to swear
how the attempt had been made and frustrated, I could now go to His Majesty with a very full
confidence, not only of having the Chevalier's accusations, against whomsoever they might be,
discredited, but also of sending the Chevalier himself to the gallows he had so richly earned.

CHAPTER XXI. LOUIS THE JUST

"For me," said the King, "these depositions were not necessary. Your word, my dear Marcel,
would have sufficed. For the courts, however, perhaps it is well that you have had them taken;
moreover, they form a valuable corroboration of the treason which you lay to the charge of
Monsieur de Saint-Eustache."

We were standing--at least, La Fosse and I were standing, Louis XIII sat--in a room, of the
Palace of Toulouse, where I had had the honour of being brought before His Majesty. La Fosse
was there, because it would seem that the King had grown fond of him, and could not be without
him since his coming to Toulouse.

His Majesty was, as usual, so dull and weary--not even roused by the approaching trial of Montmorency,
which was the main business that had brought him South that even the company of this vapid,
shallow, but irrepressibly good-humoured La Fosse, with his everlasting mythology, proved a
thing desirable.

"I will see," said Louis, "that your friend the Chevalier is placed under arrest at once, and
as much for his attempt upon your life as for the unstable quality of his political opinions,
the law shall deal with him--conclusively." He sighed. "It always pains me to proceed to extremes
against a man of his stamp. To deprive a fool of his head seems a work of supererogation."

I inclined my head, and smiled at his pleasantry. Louis the just rarely permitted himself to
jest, and when he did his humour was as like unto humour as water is like unto wine. Still,
when a monarch jests, if you are wise, if you have a favour to sue, or a position at Court
to seek or to maintain, you smile, for all that the ineptitude of his witless wit be rather
provocative of sorrow.

"Nature needs meddling with at times," hazarded La Fosse, from behind His Majesty's chair.
"This Saint-Eustache is a sort of Pandora's box, which it is well to close ere--"

"Go to the devil," said the King shortly. "We are not jesting. We have to do justice."

"Ah! Justice," murmured La Fosse; "I have seen pictures of the lady. She covers her eyes with
a bandage, but is less discreet where the other beauties of her figure are in question."

His Majesty blushed. He was above all things a chaste-minded man, modest as a nun. To the immodesty
rampant about him he was in the habit of closing his eyes and his ears, until the flagrancy
or the noise of it grew to proportions to which he might remain neither blind nor deaf.

"Monsieur de la Fosse," said he in an austere voice, "you weary me, and when people weary me
I send them away--which is one of the reasons why I am usually so much alone. I beg that you
will glance at that hunting-book, so that when I have done with Monsieur de Bardelys you may
give me your impressions of it."

La Fosse fell back, obedient but unabashed, and, moving to a table by the window, he opened
the book Louis had pointed out.

"Now, Marcel, while that buffoon prepares to inform me that the book has been inspired by Diana
herself, tell me what else you have to tell."

"Naught else, Sire."

"How naught? What of this Vicomte de Lavedan."

"Surely Your Majesty is satisfied that there is no charge--no heedful charge against him?"

"Aye, but there is a charge--a very heedful one. And so far you have afforded me no proofs
of his innocence to warrant my sanctioning his enlargement."

"I had thought, Sire, that it would be unnecessary to advance proofs of his innocence until
there were proofs of his guilt to be refuted. It is unusual, Your Majesty, to apprehend a gentleman
so that he may show cause why he did not deserve such apprehension. The more usual course is
to arrest him because there are proofs of his guilt to be preferred against him."

Louis combed his beard pensively, and his melancholy eyes grew thoughtful.

"A nice point, Marcel," said he, and he yawned. "A nice point. You should have been a lawyer."
Then, with an abrupt change of manner, "Do you give me your word of honour that he is innocent?"
he asked sharply.

"If Your Majesty's judges offer proof of his guilt, I give you my word that I will tear that
proof to pieces."

"That is not an answer. Do you swear his innocence?"

"Do I know what he carries in his conscience?" quoth I still fencing with the question. "How
can I give my word in such a matter? Ah, Sire, it is not for nothing that they call you Louis
the Just," I pursued, adopting cajolery and presenting him with his own favourite phrase. "You
will never allow a man against whom there is no shred of evidence to be confined in prison."

"Is there not?" he questioned. Yet his tone grew gentler. History, he had promised himself,
should know him as Louis the Just, and he would do naught that might jeopardize his claim to
that proud title. "There is the evidence of this Saint-Eustache!"

"Would Your Majesty hang a dog upon the word of that double traitor?"

"Hum! You are a great advocate, Marcel. You avoid answering questions; you turn questions aside
by counter-questions." He seemed to be talking more to himself than tome. "You are a much better
advocate than the Vicomte's wife, for instance. She answers questions and has a temper--Ciel!
what a temper!"

"You have seen the Vicomtesse?" I exclaimed, and I grew cold with apprehension, knowing as
I did the licence of that woman's tongue.

"Seen her?" he echoed whimsically. "I have seen her, heard her, well-nigh felt her. The air
of this room is still disturbed as a consequence of her presence. She was here an hour ago."

"And it seemed," lisped La Fosse, turning from his hunting-book, "as if the three daughters
of Acheron had quitted the domain of Pluto to take embodiment in a single woman."

"I would not have seen her," the King resumed as though La Fosse had not spoken, "but she would
not be denied. I heard her voice blaspheming in the antechamber when I refused to receive her;
there was a commotion at my door; it was dashed open, and the Swiss who held it was hurled
into my room here as though he had been a mannikin. Dieu! Since I have reigned in France I
have not been the centre of so much commotion. She is a strong woman, Marcel the saints defend
you hereafter, when she shall come to be your mother-in-law. In all France, I'll swear, her
tongue is the only stouter thing than her arm. But she's a fool."

"What did she say, Sire?" I asked in my anxiety.

"Say? She swore--Ciel! how she did swear! Not a saint in the calendar would she let rest in
peace; she dragged them all by turns from their chapter-rolls to bear witness to the truth
of what she said."

"That was--"

"That her husband was the foulest traitor out of hell. But that he was a fool with no wit of
his own to make him accountable for what he did, and that out of folly he had gone astray.
Upon those grounds she besought me to forgive him and let him go. When I told her that he must
stand his trial, and that I could offer her but little hope of his acquittal, she told me things
about myself, which in my conceit, and thanks to you flatterers who have surrounded me, I had
never dreamed.

"She told me I was ugly, sour-faced, and malformed; that I was priest-ridden and a fool; unlike
my brother, who, she assured me, is a mirror of chivalry and manly perfections. She promised
me that Heaven should never receive my soul, though I told my beads from now till Doomsday,
and she prophesied for me a welcome among the damned when my time comes. What more she might
have foretold I cannot say. She wearied me at last, for all her novelty, and I dismissed her--that
is to say," he amended, "I ordered four musketeers to carry her out. God pity you, Marcel,
when you become her daughter's husband!"

But I had no heart to enter into his jocularity. This woman with her ungovernable passion and
her rash tongue had destroyed everything.

"I see no likelihood of being her daughter's husband," I answered mournfully.

The King looked up, and laughed. "Down on your knees, then," said he, "and render thanks to
Heaven."

But I shook my head very soberly. "To Your Majesty it is a pleasing comedy," said I, "but to
me, helas! it is nearer far to tragedy."

"Come, Marcel," said he, "may I not laugh a little? One grows so sad with being King of France!
Tell me what vexes you."

"Mademoiselle de Lavedan has promised that she will marry me only when I have saved her father
from the scaffold. I came to do it, very full of hope, Sire. But his wife has forestalled me
and, seemingly, doomed him irrevocably."

His glance fell; his countenance resumed its habitual gloom. Then he looked up again, and in
the melancholy depths of his eyes I saw a gleam of something that was very like affection.

"You know that I love you, Marcel," he said gently. "Were you my own son I could not love you
more. You are a profligate, dissolute knave, and your scandals have rung in my ears more than
once; yet you are different from these other fools, and at least you have never wearied me.
To have done that is to have done something. I would not lose you, Marcel; as lose you I shall
if you marry this rose of Languedoc, for I take it that she is too sweet a flower to let wither
in the stale atmosphere of Courts. This man, this Vicomte de Lavedan, has earned his death.
Why should I not let him die, since if he dies you will not wed?"

"Do you ask me why, Sire?" said I. "Because they call you Louis the Just, and because no king
was ever more deserving of the title."

He winced; he pursed his lips, and shot a glance at La Fosse, who was deep in the mysteries
of his volume. Then he drew towards him a sheet of paper, and, taking a quill, he sat toying
with it.

"Because they call me the Just, I must let justice take its course," he answered presently.

"But," I objected, with a sudden hope, "the course of justice cannot lead to the headsman in
the case of the Vicomte de Lavedan."

"Why not?" And his solemn eyes met mine across the table.

"Because he took no active part in the revolt. If he was a traitor, he was no more than a traitor
at heart, and until a man commits a crime in deed he is not amenable to the law's rigour. His
wife has made his defection clear; but it were unfair to punish him in the same measure as
you punish those who bore arms against you, Sire."

"Ah!" he pondered. "Well? What more?"

"Is that not enough, Sire?" I cried. My heart beat quickly, and my pulses throbbed with the
suspense of that portentous moment.

He bent his head, dipped his pen and began to write.

"What punishment would you have me mete out to him?" he asked as he wrote. "Come, Marcel, deal
fairly with me, and deal fairly with him--for as you deal with him, so shall I deal with you
through him."

I felt myself paling in my excitement. "There is banishment, Sire--it is usual in cases of
treason that are not sufficiently flagrant to be punished by death."

"Yes!" He wrote busily. "Banishment for how long, Marcel? For his lifetime?"

"Nay, Sire. That were too long."

"For my lifetime, then?"

"Again that were too long."

He raised his eyes and smiled. "Ah! You turn prophet? Well, for how long, then? Come, man."

"I should think five years--"

"Five years be it. Say no more."

He wrote on for a few moments; then he raised the sandbox and sprinkled the document.

"Tiens!" he cried, as he dusted it and held it out to me. "There is my warrant for the disposal
of Monsieur le Vicomte Leon de Lavedan. He is to go into banishment for five years, but his
estates shall suffer no sequestration, and at the end of that period he may return and enjoy
them--we hope with better loyalty than in the past. Get them to execute that warrant at once,
and see that the Vicomte starts to-day under escort for Spain. It will also be your warrant
to Mademoiselle de Lavedan, and will afford proof to her that your mission has been successful."

"Sire!" I cried. And in my gratitude I could say no more, but I sank on my knee before him
and raised his hand to my lips.

"There," said he in a fatherly voice. "Go now, and be happy."

As I rose, he suddenly put up his hand.

"Ma foi, I had all but forgotten, so much has Monsieur de Lavedan's fate preoccupied us." He
picked up another paper from his table, and tossed it to me. It was my note of hand to Chatellerault
for my Picardy estates.

"Chatellerault died this morning," the King pursued. "He had been asking to see you, but when
he was told that you had left Toulouse, he dictated a long confession of his misdeeds, which
he sent to me together with this note of yours. He could not, he wrote, permit his heirs to
enjoy your estates; he had not won them; he had really forfeited his own stakes, since he had
broken the rules of play. He has left me to deliver judgment in the matter of his own lands
passing into your possession. What do you say to it, Marcel?"

It was almost with reluctance that I took up that scrap of paper. It had been so fine and heroic
a thing to have cast my wealth to the winds of heaven for love's sake, that on my soul I was
loath to see myself master of more than Beaugency. Then a compromise suggested itself.

"The wager, Sire," said I, "is one that I take shame in having entered upon; that shame made
me eager to pay it, although fully conscious that I had not lost. But even now, I cannot, in
any case, accept the forfeit Chatellerault was willing to suffer. Shall we--shall we forget
that the wager was ever laid?"

"The decision does you honour. It was what I had hoped from you. Go now, Marcel. I doubt me
you are eager. When your love-sickness wanes a little we shall hope to see you at Court again."

I sighed. "Helas, Sire, that would be never."

"So you said once before, monsieur. It is a foolish spirit upon which to enter into matrimony;
yet--like many follies--a fine one. Adieu, Marcel!"

"Adieu, Sire!"

I had kissed his hands; I had poured forth my thanks; I had reached the door already, and he
was in the act of turning to La Fosse, when it came into my head to glance at the warrant he
had given me. He noticed this and my sudden halt.

"Is aught amiss?" he asked.

"You-you have omitted something, Sire," I ventured, and I returned to the table. "I am already
so grateful that I hesitate to ask an additional favour. Yet it is but troubling you to add
a few strokes of the pen, and it will not materially affect the sentence itself."

He glanced at me, and his brows drew together as he sought to guess my meaning.

"Well, man, what is it?" he demanded impatiently.

"It has occurred to me that this poor Vicomte, in a strange land, alone, among strange faces,
missing the loved ones that for so many years he has seen daily by his side, will be pitiably
lonely."

The King's glance was lifted suddenly to my face. "Must I then banish his family as well?"

"All of it will not be necessary, Your Majesty."

For once his eyes lost their melancholy, and as hearty a burst of laughter as ever I heard
from that poor, weary gentleman he vented then.

"Ciel! what a jester you are! Ah, but I shall miss you!" he cried, as, seizing the pen, he
added the word I craved of him.

"Are you content at last?" he asked, returning the paper to me.

I glanced at it. The warrant now stipulated that Madame la Vicomtesse de Lavedan should bear
her husband company in his exile.

"Sire, you are too good!" I murmured.

"Tell the officer to whom you entrust the execution of this warrant that he will find the lady
in the guardroom below, where she is being detained, pending my pleasure. Did she but know
that it was your pleasure she has been waiting upon, I should tremble for your future when
the five years expire."

CHAPTER XXII. WE UNSADDLE

Mademoiselle held the royal warrant of her father's banishment in her hand. She was pale, and
her greeting of me had been timid. I stood before her, and by the door stood Rodenard, whom
I had bidden attend me.

As I had approached Lavedan that day, I had been taken with a great, an overwhelming shame
at the bargain I had driven. I had pondered, and it had come to me that she had been right
to suggest that in matters of love what is not freely given it is not worth while to take.
And out of my shame and that conclusion had sprung a new resolve. So that nothing might weaken
it, and lest, after all, the sight of Roxalanne should bring me so to desire her that I might
be tempted to override my purpose, I had deemed it well to have the restraint of a witness
at our last interview. To this end had I bidden Ganymede follow me into the very salon.

She read the document to the very end, then her glance was raised timidly again to mine, and
from me it shifted to Ganymede, stiff at his post by the door.

"This was the best that you could do, monsieur?" she asked at last.

"The very best, mademoiselle," I answered calmly. "I do not wish to magnify my service, but
it was that or the scaffold. Madame your mother had, unfortunately, seen the King before me,
and she had prejudiced your father's case by admitting him to be a traitor. There was a moment
when in view of that I was almost led to despair. I am glad, however, mademoiselle, that I
was so fortunate as to persuade the King to just so much clemency."

"And for five years, then, I shall not see my parents." She sighed, and her distress was very
touching.

"That need not be. Though they may not come to France, it still remains possible for you to
visit them in Spain."

"True," she mused; "that will be something--will it not?"

"Assuredly something; under the circumstances, much."

She sighed again, and for a moment there was silence.

"Will you not sit, monsieur?" said she at last. She was very quiet to-day, this little maid--very
quiet and very wondrously subdued.

"There is scarce the need," I answered softly; whereupon her eyes were raised to ask a hundred
questions. "You are satisfied with my efforts, mademoiselle?" I inquired.

"Yes, I am satisfied, monsieur."

That was the end, I told myself, and involuntarily I also sighed. Still, I made no shift to go.

"You are satisfied that I--that I have fulfilled what I promised?"

Her eyes were again cast down, and she took a step in the direction of the window.

"But yes. Your promise was to save my father from the scaffold. You have done so, and I make
no doubt you have done as much to reduce the term of his banishment as lay within your power.
Yes, monsieur, I am satisfied that your promise has been well fulfilled."

Heigho! The resolve that I had formed in coming whispered it in my ear that nothing remained
but to withdraw and go my way. Yet not for all that resolve--not for a hundred such resolves--could
I have gone thus. One kindly word, one kindly glance at least would I take to comfort me. I
would tell her in plain words of my purpose, and she should see that there was still some good,
some sense of honour in me, and thus should esteem me after I was gone.

"Ganymede." said I.

"Monseigneur?"

"Bid the men mount."

At that she turned, wonder opening her eyes very wide, and her glance travelled from me to
Rodenard with its unspoken question. But even as she looked at him he bowed and, turning to
do my bidding, left the room. We heard his steps pass with a jingle of spurs across the hall
and out into the courtyard. We heard his raucous voice utter a word of command, and there was
a stamping of hoofs, a cramping of harness, and all the bustle of preparation.

"Why have you ordered your men to mount?" she asked at last.

"Because my business here is ended, and we are going."

"Going?" said she. Her eyes were lowered now, but a frown suggested their expression to me.
"Going whither?"

"Hence," I answered. "That for the moment is all that signifies." I paused to swallow something
that hindered a clear utterance. Then, "Adieu!" said I, and I abruptly put forth my hand.

Her glance met mine fearlessly, if puzzled.

"Do you mean, monsieur, that you are leaving Lavedan--thus?"

"So that I leave, what signifies the manner of my going?"

"But"--the trouble grew in her eyes; her cheeks seemed to wax paler than they had been--"but
I thought that--that we made a bargain."

"'Sh! mademoiselle, I implore you," I cried. "I take shame at the memory of it. Almost as much
shame as I take at the memory of that other bargain which first brought me to Lavedan. The
shame of the former one I have wiped out--although, perchance, you think it not. I am wiping
out the shame of the latter one. It was unworthy in me, mademoiselle, but I loved you so dearly
that it seemed to me that no matter how I came by you, I should rest content if I but won you.
I have since seen the error if it, the injustice of it. I will not take what is not freely
given. And so, farewell."

"I see, I see," she murmured, and ignored the hand that I held out. "I am very glad of it,
monsieur."

I withdrew my hand sharply. I took up my hat from the chair on which I had cast it. She might
have spared me that, I thought. She need not have professed joy. At least she might have taken
my hand and parted in kindness.

"Adieu, mademoiselle!" I said again, as stiffly as might be, and I turned towards the door.

"Monsieur!" she called after me. I halted.

"Mademoiselle?"

She stood demurely, with eyes downcast and hands folded. "I shall be so lonely here."

I stood still. I seemed to stiffen. My heart gave a mad throb of hope, then seemed to stop.
What did she mean? I faced her fully once more, and, I doubt not, I was very pale. Yet lest
vanity should befool me, I dared not act upon suspicions. And so "True, mademoiselle," said
I. "You will be lonely. I regret it."

As silence followed, I turned again to the door, and my hopes sank with each step in that direction.

"Monsieur!"

Her voice arrested me upon the very threshold.

"What shall a poor girl do with this great estate upon her hands? It will go to ruin without
a man to govern it."

"You must not attempt the task. You must employ an intendant."

I caught something that sounded oddly like a sob. Could it be? Dieu! could it be, after all?
Yet I would not presume. I half turned again, but her voice detained me. It came petulantly now.

"Monsieur de Bardelys, you have kept your promise nobly. Will you ask no payment?"

"No, mademoiselle," I answered very softly; "I can take no payment."

Her eyes were lifted for a second. Their blue depths seemed dim. Then they fell again.

"Oh, why will you not help me?" she burst out, to add more softly: "I shall never be happy
without you!"

"You mean?" I gasped, retracing a step, and flinging my hat in a corner.

"That I love you, Marcel--that I want you!"

"And you can forgive--you can forgive?" I cried, as I caught her.

Her answer was a laugh that bespoke her scorn of everything--of everything save us two, of
everything save our love. That and the pout of her red lips was her answer. And if the temptation
of those lips--But there! I grow indiscreet.

Still holding her, I raised my voice.

"Ganymede!" I called.

"Monseigneur?" came his answer through the open window.

"Bid those knaves dismount and unsaddle."