(17:8) Whatever be the cause which leads a man to obey the commands of the sovereign, whether
it be fear or hope, or love of his country, or any other emotion - the fact remains that the
man takes counsel with himself, and nevertheless acts as his sovereign orders. (9) We must
not, therefore, assert that all actions resulting from a man's deliberation with himself are
done in obedience to the rights of the individual rather than the sovereign: as a matter of
fact, all actions spring from a man's deliberation with himself, whether the determining motive
be love or fear of punishment; therefore, either dominion does not exist, and has no rights
over its subjects, or else it extends over every instance in which it can prevail on men to
decide to obey it. (10) Consequently, every action which a subject performs in accordance with
the commands of the sovereign, whether such action springs from love, or fear, or (as is more
frequently the case) from hope and fear together, or from reverence. compounded of fear and
admiration, or, indeed, any motive whatever, is performed in virtue of his submission to the
sovereign, and not in virtue of his own authority.

(17:11) This point is made still more clear by the fact that obedience does not consist so
much in the outward act as in the mental state of the person obeying; so that he is most under
the dominion of another who with his whole heart determines to obey another's commands; and
consequently the firmest dominion belongs to the sovereign who has most influence over the
minds of his subjects; if those who are most feared possessed the firmest dominion, the firmest
dominion would belong to the subjects of a tyrant, for they are always greatly feared by their
ruler. (12) Furthermore, though it is impossible to govern the mind as completely as the tongue,
nevertheless minds are, to a certain extent, under the control of the sovereign, for he can
in many ways bring about that the greatest part of his subjects should follow his wishes in
their beliefs, their loves, and their hates. (13) Though such emotions do not arise at the
express command of the sovereign they often result (as experience shows) from the authority
of his power, and from his direction ; in other words, in virtue of his right; we may, therefore,
without doing violence to our understanding, conceive men who follow the instigation of their
sovereign in their beliefs, their loves, their hates, their contempt, and all other emotions
whatsoever.

(17:14) Though the powers of government, as thus conceived, are sufficiently ample, they can
never become large enough to execute every possible wish of their possessors. (15) This, I
think, I have already shown clearly enough. (16) The method of forming a dominion which should
prove lasting I do not, as I have said, intend to discuss, but in order to arrive at the object
I have in view, I will touch on the teaching of Divine revelation to Moses in this respect,
and we will consider the history and the success of the Jews, gathering therefrom what should
be the chief concessions made by sovereigns to their subjects with a view to the security and
increase of their dominion.

[17:2] (17) That the preservation of a state chiefly depends on the subjects' fidelity and
constancy in carrying out the orders they receive, is most clearly taught both by reason and
experience; how subjects ought to be guided so as best to preserve their fidelity and virtue
is not so obvious. (18) All, both rulers and ruled, are men, and prone to follow after their
lusts. (19) The fickle disposition of the multitude almost reduces those who have experience
of it to despair, for it is governed solely by emotions, not by reason: it rushes headlong
into every enterprise, and is easily corrupted either by avarice or luxury: everyone thinks
himself omniscient and wishes to fashion all things to his liking, judging a thing to be just
or unjust, lawful or unlawful, according as he thinks it will bring him profit or loss: vanity
leads him to despise his equals, and refuse their guidance: envy of superior fame or fortune
(for such gifts are never equally distributed) leads him to desire and rejoice in his neighbour's
downfall. (20) I need not go through the whole list, everyone knows already how much crime.
results from disgust at the present - desire for change, headlong anger, and contempt for poverty
- and how men's minds are engrossed and kept in turmoil thereby.

(17:21) To guard against all these evils, and form a dominion where no room is left for deceit;
to frame our institutions so that every man, whatever his disposition, may prefer public right
to private advantage, this is the task and this the toil. (22) Necessity is often the mother
of invention, but she has never yet succeeded in framing a dominion that was in less danger
from its own citizens than from open enemies, or whose rulers did not fear the latter less
than the former. (23) Witness the state of Rome, invincible by her enemies, but many times
conquered and sorely oppressed by her own citizens, especially in the war between Vespasian
and Vitellius. (24) (See Tacitus, Hist. bk. iv. for a description of the pitiable state of
the city.)

(17:25) Alexander thought prestige abroad more easy to acquire than prestige at home, and believed
that his greatness could be destroyed by his own followers. (26) Fearing such a disaster, he
thus addressed his friends: "Keep me safe from internal treachery and domestic plots, and I
will front without fear the dangers of battle and of war. (27) Philip was more secure in the
battle array than in the theatre: he often escaped from the hands of the enemy, he could not
escape from his own subjects. (28) If you think over the deaths of kings, you will count up
more who have died by the assassin than by the open foe." (Q. Curtius, chap. vi.)

(17:29) For the sake of making themselves secure, kings who seized the throne in ancient times
used to try to spread the idea that they were descended from the immortal gods, thinking that
if their subjects and the rest of mankind did not look on them as equals, but believed them
to be gods, they would willingly submit to their rule, and obey their commands. (30) Thus Augustus
persuaded the Romans that he was descended from AEneas, who was the son of Venus, and numbered
among the gods. (31) "He wished himself to be worshipped in temples, like the gods, with flamens
and priests." (Tacitus, Ann. i. 10.)

(17:32) Alexander wished to be saluted as the son of Jupiter, not from motives of pride but
of policy, as he showed by his answer to the invective of Hermolaus: "It is almost laughable,"
said he, that Hermolaus asked me to contradict Jupiter, by whose oracle I am recognized. (33)
Am I responsible for the answers of the gods? (34) It offered me the name of son; acquiescence
was by no means foreign to my present designs. (35) Would that the Indians also would believe
me to be a god! (36) Wars are carried through by prestige, falsehoods that are believed often
gain the force of truth." (Curtius, viii,. Para, 8.) (37) In these few words he cleverly contrives
to palm off a fiction on the ignorant, and at the same time hints at the motive for the deception.

(17:38) Cleon, in his speech persuading the Macedonians to obey their king, adopted a similar
device: for after going through the praises of Alexander with admiration, and recalling his
merits, he proceeds, "the Persians are not only pious, but prudent in worshipping their kings
as gods: for kingship is the shield of public safety," and he ends thus, "I, myself, when the
king enters a banquet hall, should prostrate my body on the ground; other men should do the
like, especially those who are wise " (Curtius, viii. Para. 66). (39) However, the Macedonians
were more prudent - indeed, it is only complete barbarians who can be so openly cajoled, and
can suffer themselves to be turned from subjects into slaves without interests of their own.
(40) Others, notwithstanding, have been able more easily to spread the belief that kingship
is sacred, and plays the part of God on the earth, that it has been instituted by God, not
by the suffrage and consent of men; and that it is preserved and guarded by Divine special
providence and aid. (41) Similar fictions have been promulgated by monarchs, with the object
of strengthening their dominion, but these I will pass over, and in order to arrive at my main
purpose, will merely recall and discuss the teaching on the subject of Divine revelation to
Moses in ancient times.

[17:3] (42) We have said in Chap. V. that after the Hebrews came up out of Egypt they were
not bound by the law and right of any other nation, but were at liberty to institute any new
rites at their pleasure, and to occupy whatever territory they chose. (43) After their liberation
from the intolerable bondage of the Egyptians, they were bound by no covenant to any man; and,
therefore, every man entered into his natural right, and was free to retain it or to give it
up, and transfer it to another. (44) Being, then, in the state of nature, they followed the
advice of Moses, in whom they chiefly trusted, and decided to transfer their right to no human
being, but only to God; without further delay they all, with one voice, promised to obey all
the commands of the Deity, and to acknowledge no right that He did not proclaim as such by
prophetic revelation. (45) This promise, or transference of right to God, was effected in the
same manner as we have conceived it to have been in ordinary societies, when men agree to divest
themselves of their natural rights. (46) It is, in fact, in virtue of a set covenant, and an
oath (see Exod. xxxiv:10), that the Jews freely, and not under compulsion or threats, surrendered
their rights and transferred them to God. (47) Moreover, in order that this covenant might
be ratified and settled, and might be free from all suspicion of deceit, God did not enter
into it till the Jews had had experience of His wonderful power by which alone they had been,
or could be, preserved in a state of prosperity (Exod. xix:4, 5). (48) It is because they believed
that nothing but God's power could preserve them that they surrendered to God the natural power
of self-preservation, which they formerly, perhaps, thought they possessed, and consequently
they surrendered at the same time all their natural right.

[17:4] (49) God alone, therefore, held dominion over the Hebrews, whose state was in virtue
of the covenant called God's kingdom, and God was said to be their king; consequently the enemies
of the Jews were said to be the enemies of God, and the citizens who tried to seize the dominion
were guilty of treason against God; and, lastly, the laws of the state were called the laws
and commandments of God. (50) Thus in the Hebrew state the civil and religious authority, each
consisting solely of obedience to God, were one and the same. (51) The dogmas of religion were
not precepts, but laws and ordinances; piety was regarded as the same as loyalty, impiety as
the same as disaffection. (52) Everyone who fell away from religion ceased to be a citizen,
and was, on that ground alone, accounted an enemy: those who died for the sake of religion,
were held to have died for their country; in fact, between civil and religious law and right
there was no distinction whatever. {in Biblical Hebrew, there was no word for what we call
Religion." Modern Hebrew has selected a word whose root is "knowledge."} (53) For this reason
the government could be called a Theocracy, inasmuch as the citizens were not bound by anything
save the revelations of God.

(17:54) However, this state of things existed rather in theory than in practice, for it will
appear from what we are about to say, that the Hebrews, as a matter of fact, retained absolutely
in their own hands the right of sovereignty: this is shown by the method and plan by which
the government was carried on, as I will now explain.

(17:55) Inasmuch as the Hebrews did not transfer their rights to any other person but, as in
a democracy, all surrendered their rights equally, and cried out with one voice, "Whatsoever
God shall speak (no mediator or mouthpiece being named) that will we do," it follows that all
were equally bound by the covenant, and that all had an equal right to consult the Deity, to
accept and to interpret His laws, so that all had an exactly equal share in the government.
[17:5] (56) Thus at first they all approached God together, so that they might learn His commands,
but in this first salutation, they were so thoroughly terrified and so astounded to hear God
speaking, that they thought their last hour was at hand: full of fear, therefore, they went
afresh to Moses, and said, "Lo, we have heard God speaking in the fire, and there is no cause
why we should wish to die: surely this great fire will consume us: if we hear again the voice
of God, we shall surely die. (57) Thou, therefore, go near, and hear all the words of our God,
and thou (not God) shalt speak with us: all that God shall tell us, that will we hearken to
and perform."

(17:58) They thus clearly abrogated their former covenant, and absolutely transferred to Moses
their right to consult God and interpret His commands: for they do not here promise obedience
to all that God shall tell them, but to all that God shall tell Moses (see Deut. v:20 after
the Decalogue, and chap. xviii:15, 16). (59) Moses, therefore, remained the sole promulgator
and interpreter of the Divine laws, and consequently also the sovereign judge, who could not
be arraigned himself, and who acted among the Hebrews the part, of God; in other words, held
the sovereign kingship: he alone had the right to consult God, to give the Divine answers to
the people, and to see that they were carried out. (60) I say he alone, for if anyone during
the life of Moses was desirous of preaching anything in the name of the Lord, he was, even
if a true prophet, considered guilty and a usurper of the sovereign right (Numb. xi:28) [Endnote
30]. (61) We may here notice, that though the people had elected Moses, they could not rightfully
elect Moses's successor; for having transferred to Moses their right of consulting God, and
absolutely promised to regard him as a Divine oracle, they had plainly forfeited the whole
of their right, and were bound to accept as chosen by God anyone proclaimed by Moses as his
successor. (62) If Moses had so chosen his successor, who like him should wield the sole right
of government, possessing the sole right of consulting God, and consequently of making and
abrogating laws, of deciding on peace or war, of sending ambassadors, appointing judges - in
fact, discharging all the functions of a sovereign, the state would have become simply a monarchy,
only differing from other monarchies in the fact, that the latter are, or should be, carried
on in accordance with God's decree, unknown even to the monarch, whereas the Hebrew monarch
would have been the only person to whom the decree was revealed. (63) A difference which increases,
rather than diminishes the monarch's authority. (64) As far as the people in both cases are
concerned, each would be equally subject, and equally ignorant of the Divine decree, for each
would be dependent on the monarch's words, and would learn from him alone, what was lawful
or unlawful: nor would the fact that the people believed that the monarch was only issuing
commands in accordance with God's decree revealed to him, make it less in subjection, but rather
more. [17:6] (65) However, Moses elected no such successor, but left the dominion to those
who came after him in a condition which could not be called a popular government, nor an aristocracy,
nor a monarchy, but a Theocracy. (66) For the right of interpreting laws was vested in one
man, while the right and power of administering the state according to the laws thus interpreted,
was vested in another man (see Numb. xxvii:21) [Endnote 31].

(17:67) In order that the question may be thoroughly understood, I will duly set forth the
administration of the whole state.

(68) First, the people were commanded to build a tabernacle, which should be, as it were, the
dwelling of God - that is, of the sovereign authority of the state. (69) This tabernacle was
to be erected at the cost of the whole people, not of one man, in order that the place where
God was consulted might be public property. (70) The Levites were chosen as courtiers and administrators
of this royal abode; while Aaron, the brother of Moses, was chosen to be their chief and second,
as it were, to God their King, being succeeded in the office by his legitimate sons.

(17:71) He, as the nearest to God, was the sovereign interpreter of the Divine laws; he communicated
the answers of the Divine oracle to the people, and entreated God's favour for them. (72) If,
in addition to these privileges, he had possessed the right of ruling, he would have been neither
more nor less than an absolute monarch; but, in respect to government, he was only a private
citizen: the whole tribe of Levi was so completely divested of governing rights that it did
not even take its share with the others in the partition of territory. (73) Moses provided
for its support by inspiring the common people with great reverence for it, as the only tribe
dedicated to God.

(17:74) Further, the army, formed from the remaining twelve tribes, was commanded to invade
the land of Canaan, to divide it into twelve portions, and to distribute it among the tribes
by lot. (75) For this task twelve captains were chosen, one from every tribe, and were, together
with Joshua and Eleazar, the high priest, empowered to divide the land into twelve equal parts,
and distribute it by lot. (76) Joshua was chosen for the chief command of the army, inasmuch
as none but he had the right to consult God in emergencies, not like Moses, alone in his tent,
or in the tabernacle, but through the high priest, to whom only the answers of God were revealed.
(77) Furthermore, he was empowered to execute, and cause the people to obey God's commands,
transmitted through the high priests; to find, and to make use of, means for carrying them
out; to choose as many, army captains as he liked; to make whatever choice he thought best;
to send ambassadors in his own name; and, in short, to have the entire control of the war.
(78) To his office there was no rightful successor - indeed, the post was only filled by the
direct order of the Deity, on occasions of public emergency. (79) In ordinary times, all the
management of peace and war was vested in the captains of the tribes, as I will shortly point
out. (80) Lastly, all men between the ages of twenty and sixty were ordered to bear arms, and
form a citizen army, owing allegiance, not to its general-in- chief, nor to the high priest,
but to Religion and to God. (81) The army, or the hosts, were called the army of God, or the
hosts of God. (82) For this reason God was called by the Hebrews the God of Armies; and the
ark of the covenant was borne in the midst of the army in important battles, when the safety
or destruction of the whole people hung upon the issue, so that the people might, as it were,
see their King among them, and put forth all their strength.

