Their Majesties invited to dine with them the Duke and Duchess of Weimar, the Queen of Westphalia,
the King of Wurtemberg, the King of Saxony, the Grand Duke Constantine, Prince William of Prussia,
the Prince Primate, the Prince of Neuchatel, Prince Talleyrand, the Duke of Oldenburg, the
hereditary Prince of Weimar, and the Prince of Mecklenburg-Schwerin.

After this dinner there was a play, followed by a ball, the play being at the town theater,
where the ordinary comedians of his Majesty presented the death of Caesar; and the ball, at
the ducal palace.  The Emperor Alexander opened the ball with the Queen of Westphalia, to the
great astonishment of every one; for it was well known that this monarch had never danced since
his accession to the throne, conduct which the older men of the court thought very praiseworthy,
holding the opinion that a sovereign occupies too high a place to share in the tastes and take
pleasure in amusements common to the rest of mankind.  Except this, however, there was nothing
in the ball of Weimar to scandalize them, as they did not dance, but promenaded in couples,
whilst the orchestra played marches.

The morning of the next day their Majesties entered carriages to visit Mount Napoleon, near
Jena, where a splendid breakfast was prepared for them under a tent which the Duke of Weimar
had erected on the identical spot where the Emperor's bivouac stood on the day of the battle
of Jena. After breakfast the two Emperors ascended a temporary pavilion which had been erected
on Mount Napoleon; this pavilion, which was very large, had been decorated with plans of the
battle.  A deputation from the town and university of Jena arrived, and were received by their
Majesties; and the Emperor inquired of the deputies the most minute particulars relating to
their town, its resources, and the manners and character of its inhabitants; questioned them
on the approximate damages which the military hospital, which had been so long left with them,
had caused the inhabitants of Jena; inquired the names of those who had suffered most from
fire and war, and gave orders that a gratuity should be distributed among them, and the small
proprietors entirely indemnified.  His Majesty informed himself with much interest of the condition
of the Catholic worship, and promised to endow the vicarage in perpetuity, granting three hundred
thousand francs for immediate necessities, and promising to give still more.

After having visited, on horseback, the positions which the two armies had held the evening
before, and on the day of, the battle of Jena, as well as the plain of Aspolda, on which the
duke had prepared a hunt with guns, the two Emperors returned to Erfurt, which they reached
at five o'clock in the evening, almost at the very moment the grand hereditary duke of Baden
and the Princess Stephanie arrived.

During the entire visit of the sovereigns to the battlefield, the Emperor most graciously made
explanations to the young Czar, to which he listened with the greatest interest.  His Majesty
seemed to take pleasure in explaining at length, first, the plan which he had formed and carried
out at Jena, and afterwards the various plans of his other campaigns, the maneuvers which he
had executed, his usual tactics, and, in fine, his whole ideas on the art of war.  The Emperor
thus, for several hours, carried on the whole conversation alone; and his royal audience paid
him as much attention as scholars, eager to learn, pay to the instructions of their teacher.

When his Majesty returned to his apartment, I heard Marshal Berthier say to him, "Sire, are
you not afraid that the sovereigns may some day use to advantage against you all that you have
just taught them?  Your Majesty just now seemed to forget what you formerly told us, that it
is necessary to act with our allies as if they were afterwards to be our enemies."-- "Berthier,"
replied the Emperor, smiling, "that is a good observation on your part, and I thank you for
it; I really believe I have made you think I was an idiot.  You think, then," continued his
Majesty, pinching sharply one of the Prince de Neuchatel's ears, "that I committed the indiscretion
of giving them whips with which to return and flog us?  Calm yourself, I did not tell them all."

The Emperor's table at Erfurt was in the form of a half-moon; and at the upper end, and consequently
at the rounded part, of this table their Majesties were seated, and on the right and left the
sovereigns of the Confederation according to their rank.  The side facing their Majesties was
always empty; and there stood M. de Beausset, the prefect of the palace, who relates in his
Memoirs that one day he overheard the following conversation:

     "On that day the subject of conversation was the Golden Bull, which,
     until the establishment of the Confederation of the Rhine, had
     served as a constitution, and had regulated the law for the election
     of emperors, the number and rank of the electors, etc.  The Prince
     Primate entered into some details regarding this Golden Bull, which
     he said was made in 1409; whereupon the Emperor Napoleon pointed out
     to him that the date which was assigned to the Golden Bull was not
     correct, and that it was proclaimed in 1336, during the reign of the
     Emperor Charles IV.  'That is true, Sire,' replied the Prince
     Primate I was mistaken; but how does it happen that your Majesty is
     so well acquainted with these matters?'--'When I was a mere sub-
     lieutenant in the artillery, said Napoleon,--at this beginning,
     there was on the part of the guests a marked movement of interest,
     and he continued, smiling,--when I had the honor to be simply sub-
     lieutenant in the artillery I remained three years in the garrison
     at Valence, and, as I cared little for society, led a very retired
     life.  By fortunate chance I had lodgings with a kind and
     intelligent bookseller.  I read and re-read his library during the
     three years I remained in the garrison and have forgotten nothing,
     even matters which have had no connection with my position.  Nature,
     besides, has given me a good memory for figures, and it often
     happens with my ministers that I can give them details and the sum
     total of accounts they presented long since.'"

A few days before his departure from Erfurt, the Emperor bestowed the cross of the Legion of
Honor on M. de Bigi, commandant of arms at this place; M. Vegel, burgomaster of Jena; Messrs.
Weiland and Goethe; M. Starlk, senior physician at Jena.  He gave to General Count Tolstoi,
ambassador from Russia, who had been recalled from this post by his sovereign to take a command
in the army, the grand decoration of the Legion of Honor; to M. the dean Meimung, who had said
mass twice at the palace, a ring of brilliants, with the cipher N surmounted by a crown; and
a hundred napoleons to the two priests who had assisted him; finally, to the grand marshal
of the palace, Count Tolstoi, the beautiful Gobelin tapestry, Savonnerie carpets, and Sevres
porcelain, which had been brought from Paris to furnish the palace of Erfurt.  The minister's
grand officers, and officers of Alexander's suite, received from his Majesty magnificent presents;
and the Emperor Alexander did likewise in regard to the persons attached to his Majesty.  He
gave the Duke of Vicenza the grand cordon of Saint Andrew, and a badge of the same order set
in diamonds to the Princes of Benevento and Neuchatel.

Charmed by the talent of the French comedians, especially that of Talma, the Emperor Alexander
sent very handsome presents to her as well as all her companions; he sent compliments to the
actresses, and to the director, M. Dazincourt, whom he did not forget in his distribution of gifts.

This interview at Erfurt, which was so brilliant with illuminations, splendor, and luxury,
ended on the 14th of October; and all the great personages whom it had attracted left between
the 8th and the 14th of October.

The day of his departure the Emperor gave an audience, after his toilet, to Baron Vincent,
envoy extraordinary of Austria, and sent by him a letter to his sovereign.  At eleven o'clock
the Emperor of Russia came to his Majesty, who received him, and reconducted him to his residence
with great ceremony; and soon after his Majesty repaired to the Russian palace, followed by
his whole suite.  After mutual compliments they entered the carriage together, and did not
part till they reached the spot on the road from Weimar where they had met on their arrival.
There they embraced each other affectionately and separated; and the 18th of October, at half-past
nine in the evening, the Emperor was at Saint- Cloud, having made the whole trip incognito.