Extend self-love to others and it is transformed into virtue, a virtue which has its root in
the heart of every one of us. The less the object of our care is directly dependent on ourselves,
the less we have to fear from the illusion of self-interest; the more general this interest
becomes, the juster it is; and the love of the human race is nothing but the love of justice
within us. If therefore we desire Emile to be a lover of truth, if we desire that he should
indeed perceive it, let us keep him far from self-interest in all his business. The more care
he bestows upon the happiness of others the wiser and better he is, and the fewer mistakes
he will make between good and evil; but never allow him any blind preference founded merely
on personal predilection or unfair prejudice. Why should he harm one person to serve another?
What does it matter to him who has the greater share of happiness, providing he promotes the
happiness of all? Apart from self-interest this care for the general well-being is the first
concern of the wise man, for each of us forms part of the human race and not part of any individual
member of that race.

To prevent pity degenerating into weakness we must generalise it and extend it to mankind.
Then we only yield to it when it is in accordance with justice, since justice is of all the
virtues that which contributes most to the common good. Reason and self-love compel us to love
mankind even more than our neighbour, and to pity the wicked is to be very cruel to other men.

Moreover, you must bear in mind that all these means employed to project my pupil beyond himself
have also a distinct relation to himself; since they not only cause him inward delight, but
I am also endeavouring to instruct him, while I am making him kindly disposed towards others.

First I showed the means employed, now I will show the result. What wide prospects do I perceive
unfolding themselves before his mind! What noble feelings stifle the lesser passions in his
heart! What clearness of judgment, what accuracy in reasoning, do I see developing from the
inclinations we have cultivated, from the experience which concentrates the desires of a great
heart within the narrow bounds of possibility, so that a man superior to others can come down
to their level if he cannot raise them to his own!  True principles of justice, true types
of beauty, all moral relations between man and man, all ideas of order, these are engraved
on his understanding; he sees the right place for everything and the causes which drive it
from that place; he sees what may do good, and what hinders it. Without having felt the passions
of mankind, he knows the illusions they produce and their mode of action.

I proceed along the path which the force of circumstances compels me to tread, but I do not
insist that my readers shall follow me. Long ago they have made up their minds that I am wandering
in the land of chimeras, while for my part I think they are dwelling in the country of prejudice.
When I wander so far from popular beliefs I do not cease to bear them in mind; I examine them,
I consider them, not that I may follow them or shun them, but that I may weigh them in the
balance of reason. Whenever reason compels me to abandon these popular beliefs, I know by experience
that my readers will not follow my example; I know that they will persist in refusing to go
beyond what they can see, and that they will take the youth I am describing for the creation
of my fanciful imagination, merely because he is unlike the youths with whom they compare him;
they forget that he must needs be different, because he has been brought up in a totally different
fashion; he has been influenced by wholly different feelings, instructed in a wholly different
manner, so that it would be far stranger if he were like your pupils than if he were what I
have supposed. He is a man of nature's making, not man's. No wonder men find him strange.

When I began this work I took for granted nothing but what could be observed as readily by
others as by myself; for our starting-point, the birth of man, is the same for all; but the
further we go, while I am seeking to cultivate nature and you are seeking to deprave it, the
further apart we find ourselves. At six years old my pupil was not so very unlike yours, whom
you had not yet had time to disfigure; now there is nothing in common between them; and when
they reach the age of manhood, which is now approaching, they will show themselves utterly
different from each other, unless all my pains have been thrown away. There may not be so very
great a difference in the amount of knowledge they possess, but there is all the difference
in the world in the kind of knowledge. You are amazed to find that the one has noble sentiments
of which the others have not the smallest germ, but remember that the latter are already philosophers
and theologians while Emile does not even know what is meant by a philosopher and has scarcely
heard the name of God.

But if you come and tell me, "There are no such young men, young people are not made that way;
they have this passion or that, they do this or that," it is as if you denied that a pear tree
could ever be a tall tree because the pear trees in our gardens are all dwarfs.

I beg these critics who are so ready with their blame to consider that I am as well acquainted
as they are with everything they say, that I have probably given more thought to it, and that,
as I have no private end to serve in getting them to agree with me, I have a right to demand
that they should at least take time to find out where I am mistaken. Let them thoroughly examine
the nature of man, let them follow the earliest growth of the heart in any given circumstances,
so as to see what a difference education may make in the individual; then let them compare
my method of education with the results I ascribe to it; and let them tell me where my reasoning
is unsound, and I shall have no answer to give them.

It is this that makes me speak so strongly, and as I think with good excuse: I have not pledged
myself to any system, I depend as little as possible on arguments, and I trust to what I myself
have observed. I do not base my ideas on what I have imagined, but on what I have seen. It
is true that I have not confined my observations within the walls of any one town, nor to a
single class of people; but having compared men of every class and every nation which I have
been able to observe in the course of a life spent in this pursuit, I have discarded as artificial
what belonged to one nation and not to another, to one rank and not to another; and I have
regarded as proper to mankind what was common to all, at any age, in any station, and in any
nation whatsoever.

Now if in accordance with this method you follow from infancy the course of a youth who has
not been shaped to any special mould, one who depends as little as possible on authority and
the opinions of others, which will he most resemble, my pupil or yours? It seems to me that
this is the question you must answer if you would know if I am mistaken.

It is not easy for a man to begin to think; but when once he has begun he will never leave
off. Once a thinker, always a thinker, and the understanding once practised in reflection will
never rest. You may therefore think that I do too much or too little; that the human mind is
not by nature so quick to unfold; and that after having given it opportunities it has not got,
I keep it too long confined within a circle of ideas which it ought to have outgrown.

But remember, in the first place, that when I want to train a natural man, I do not want to
make him a savage and to send him back to the woods, but that living in the whirl of social
life it is enough that he should not let himself be carried away by the passions and prejudices
of men; let him see with his eyes and feel with his heart, let him own no sway but that of
reason. Under these conditions it is plain that many things will strike him; the oft-recurring
feelings which affect him, the different ways of satisfying his real needs, must give him many
ideas he would not otherwise have acquired or would only have acquired much later. The natural
progress of the mind is quickened but not reversed. The same man who would remain stupid in
the forests should become wise and reasonable in towns, if he were merely a spectator in them.
Nothing is better fitted to make one wise than the sight of follies we do not share, and even
if we share them, we still learn, provided we are not the dupe of our follies and provided
we do not bring to them the same mistakes as the others.

Consider also that while our faculties are confined to the things of sense, we offer scarcely
any hold to the abstractions of philosophy or to purely intellectual ideas. To attain to these
we require either to free ourselves from the body to which we are so strongly bound, or to
proceed step by step in a slow and gradual course, or else to leap across the intervening space
with a gigantic bound of which no child is capable, one for which grown men even require many
steps hewn on purpose for them; but I find it very difficult to see how you propose to construct
such steps.

The Incomprehensible embraces all, he gives its motion to the earth, and shapes the system
of all creatures, but our eyes cannot see him nor can our hands search him out, he evades the
efforts of our senses; we behold the work, but the workman is hidden from our eyes.  It is
no small matter to know that he exists, and when we have got so far, and when we ask. What
is he? Where is he? our mind is overwhelmed, we lose ourselves, we know not what to think.

Locke would have us begin with the study of spirits and go on to that of bodies. This is the
method of superstition, prejudice, and error; it is not the method of nature, nor even that
of well-ordered reason; it is to learn to see by shutting our eyes. We must have studied bodies
long enough before we can form any true idea of spirits, or even suspect that there are such
beings. The contrary practice merely puts materialism on a firmer footing.

Since our senses are the first instruments to our learning, corporeal and sensible bodies are
the only bodies we directly apprehend. The word "spirit" has no meaning for any one who has
not philosophised. To the unlearned and to the child a spirit is merely a body. Do they not
fancy that spirits groan, speak, fight, and make noises? Now you must own that spirits with
arms and voices are very like bodies. This is why every nation on the face of the earth, not
even excepting the Jews, have made to themselves idols. We, ourselves, with our words, Spirit,
Trinity, Persons, are for the most part quite anthropomorphic. I admit that we are taught that
God is everywhere; but we also believe that there is air everywhere, at least in our atmosphere;
and the word Spirit meant originally nothing more than breath and wind. Once you teach people
to say what they do not understand, it is easy enough to get them to say anything you like.

The perception of our action upon other bodies must have first induced us to suppose that their
action upon us was effected in like manner. Thus man began by thinking that all things whose
action affected him were alive. He did not recognise the limits of their powers, and he therefore
supposed that they were boundless; as soon as he had supplied them with bodies they became
his gods. In the earliest times men went in terror of everything and everything in nature seemed
alive. The idea of matter was developed as slowly as that of spirit, for the former is itself
an abstraction.

Thus the universe was peopled with gods like themselves. The stars, the winds and the mountains,
rivers, trees, and towns, their very dwellings, each had its soul, its god, its life. The teraphim
of Laban, the manitos of savages, the fetishes of the negroes, every work of nature and of
man, were the first gods of mortals; polytheism was their first religion and idolatry their
earliest form of worship. The idea of one God was beyond their grasp, till little by little
they formed general ideas, and they rose to the idea of a first cause and gave meaning to the
word "substance," which is at bottom the greatest of abstractions. So every child who believes
in God is of necessity an idolater or at least he regards the Deity as a man, and when once
the imagination has perceived God, it is very seldom that the understanding conceives him.
Locke's order leads us into this same mistake.

Having arrived, I know not how, at the idea of substance, it is clear that to allow of a single
substance it must be assumed that this substance is endowed with incompatible and mutually
exclusive properties, such as thought and size, one of which is by its nature divisible and
the other wholly incapable of division. Moreover it is assumed that thought or, if you prefer
it, feeling is a primitive quality inseparable from the substance to which it belongs, that
its relation to the substance is like the relation between substance and size. Hence it is
inferred that beings who lose one of these attributes lose the substance to which it belongs,
and that death is, therefore, but a separation of substances, and that those beings in whom
the two attributes are found are composed of the two substances to which those two qualities
belong.

But consider what a gulf there still is between the idea of two substances and that of the
divine nature, between the incomprehensible idea of the influence of our soul upon our body
and the idea of the influence of God upon every living creature. The ideas of creation, destruction,
ubiquity, eternity, almighty power, those of the divine attributes--these are all ideas so
confused and obscure that few men succeed in grasping them; yet there is nothing obscure about
them to the common people, because they do not understand them in the least; how then should
they present themselves in full force, that is to say in all their obscurity, to the young
mind which is still occupied with the first working of the senses, and fails to realise anything
but what it handles? In vain do the abysses of the Infinite open around us, a child does not
know the meaning of fear; his weak eyes cannot gauge their depths. To children everything is
infinite, they cannot assign limits to anything; not that their measure is so large, but because
their understanding is so small. I have even noticed that they place the infinite rather below
than above the dimensions known to them. They judge a distance to be immense rather by their
feet than by their eyes; infinity is bounded for them, not so much by what they can see, but
how far they can go. If you talk to them of the power of God, they will think he is nearly
as strong as their father. As their own knowledge is in everything the standard by which they
judge of what is possible, they always picture what is described to them as rather smaller
than what they know. Such are the natural reasonings of an ignorant and feeble mind. Ajax was
afraid to measure his strength against Achilles, yet he challenged Jupiter to combat, for he
knew Achilles and did not know Jupiter. A Swiss peasant thought himself the richest man alive;
when they tried to explain to him what a king was, he asked with pride, "Has the king got a
hundred cows on the high pastures?"

