THE RIGHT KNOCK is now in its THIRTEENTH edition, a fact which speaks for the great helpfulness
of the book, and proclaims without further comment its world wide Scope.

THE RIGHT KNOCK.

CHAPTER I.

     "When you have resolved to be great, abide by yourself, and do not
     weakly try to reconcile yourself with the world."--Emerson.

There was a brilliant light in all the windows at Terrace Hill. Even the verandahs were gorgeous
with the gayest Chinese lanterns, and every bush and tree in the lawn did duty as chandelier.
Flowers, too, festooned every arch and embowered every corner, while rare vases fulfilled their
esteemed privilege of holding and showing fragrant blossoms.

Everybody declared the decorations superb, and agreed that no one but Mrs. Hayden could display
such exquisite taste and such perfect judgment in selection and arrangement. Animated groups
of gayly attired guests sauntered up and down the rose-bowered walks, or promenaded the verandahs,
while sounds of music and merriment from the house proclaimed the joy that reigned throughout.

"Oh, how beautifully Mrs. Hayden entertains!" remarked Kate Turner to her friend Grace Hall,
as they stopped beside a marble fountain to survey the scene. "I wonder what place such a woman
would take in society without her wealth," she continued.

"Probably wouldn't have any place, I am sorry to say, because there are thousands of women
just as capable and bright as Mrs. Hayden, yet because they have no social position, or rather
no money to buy themselves one, they are unrecognized and alone," said Grace, with a tinge
of bitterness in her tone.

"I could never fancy Mrs. Hayden alone or unrecognized, although I only know her as a society
lady, and that mostly through Mrs. Nottingham."

"There is no telling what a person really is till they have gone through a trial of some kind,
or had something disagreeable to bear. Then one of two things happens: you will see either
a saint or a sinner, and I am not sure which Mrs. Hayden would be. She hasn't yet seen a flame
from the fire of adversity, I'm sure. See how wonderfully she is blessed with this beautiful
home, a good husband and three nice children."

"Oh! it must be lovely to have everything you want," sighed Kate, under her breath.

Poor Kate! She was alone in the world, making the best of life with her talent for music and
through a mutual friend had been introduced to Mrs. Hayden, who, after hearing her play, immediately
engaged her for Mabel, and always invited her to the parties, more as a musical attraction,
than out of any real regard, for Mrs. Hayden had an abundance of friends without troubling
herself to cultivate in any warm fashion, the friendship of a poor little music teacher, thought
Kate, somewhat bitterly.

"But after all, Kate, life would need more than luxuries to make it my ideal of happiness.
I should want every human being to be agreeably employed; every woman, no matter how much or
how little she might have, should be occupied with something that she could put her heart into
and speak to the world through her work, whether it be painting pictures or darning stockings."

"Now Gracious, you are riding your hobby and you ought to see you can't ride with all these
fine people in your path. Come down at once or I'll desert you! Let's go in and hear that waltz,"
and Kate laughingly pulled the hobby-rider into the path that led to the conservatory where
they could listen to the music.

"What a beautiful home Mrs. Hayden has!" said Mrs. Ferris to her neighbor with the severe collar
and plain hair, as they examined the exquisite frescoing on the parlor ceiling.

"Yes, but she ought to look into poor homes once in a while. She don't use her money in the
right way. Just think of the good she might do for our church, if she would contribute to the
charity fund, or take some poor families to look after."

The fat neck folded itself over the severe collar and the face settled into rigid lines of
judgment. Mrs. Dyke was a practical woman and talked in a practical way. Being a wonderful
church worker she naturally considered it everybody's duty to give when they did not work for
the cause of religion. She belonged to the First Methodist Church on High St., and talked about
"our church" as though there were no other.

Mrs. Ferris was at a loss. She had said something that had not brought forth a pleasant result.
She merely wished to be sociable, and what more convenient topic than these beautiful surroundings?
She was a meek little woman, who always wanted to say something agreeable or soothing, and
she felt quite frightened at the mistake she had made. She wished somebody would come to the
rescue, but there was no immediate prospect, and she scarcely knew how to proceed again, but
ventured to ask if there were many poor people who needed attention now.

"Yes, indeed there are no less than fifteen families in the mission quarter nearest Mrs. Hayden
who would consider it a privilege to pick up the crumbs from her table, and I am afraid she'll
have to give an account some time when the reckoning day comes, for those who have not 'given
cups of cold water, or visited the sick languishing in prison.'"

The air almost trembled with a suggestion of something. Little Mrs. Ferris looked longingly
towards the door and just then spied her husband who was seeking her. After she was gone, Mrs.
Dyke looked grimly about, and not finding any one to listen, she relapsed into a meditative
silence. People always wondered what made Mrs. Dyke so popular that she received an invitation
to every aristocratic party, but it was according to the old adage, "Where there is a will
there is a way."

This was a gala night for Hampton. Such large social parties were always an event, and no one
refused an invitation to Mrs. Hayden's, for it always meant beautiful rooms, carpets, pictures
and bric-a-brac, superb refreshments, and a splendid time generally. Mrs. Hayden was a favorite
with the world because she fed the world with sugar plums, and after smacking its lips it was
always ready for more. And she usually had one to drop in. To-night it was a remarkably sweet
one. This was a general affair, and every big body and big body's cousins and friends were
there. To be sure they discussed their hostess as freely as though they were not big bodies,
but with rare exceptions the discussion was complimentary in the extreme. Mrs. Hayden, what
she said, what she did, what she wore, what she served as refreshments the last time, what
were the probabilities next, her children, her husband, what they all did and said and how
they acted, etc., were always interesting themes. Sometimes, to be sure, there were adverse
remarks like Mrs. Dyke's, but few made them.

Yes, Mrs. Hayden was decidedly popular, and although no one was ever heard to tell of any particularly
grand or noble deed she had done, she was supposed to be doing good all the time. There were
those who, in earlier years, would have pointed her out as an enthusiastic philanthropist,
eagerly helping whatever project needed her most, but gradually she had dropped it all, no
one knew why, and now her principal work was to shine in society, at least this was the general
verdict of the adverse few who judged from the superficial standpoint of the world. Of her
inner life they knew nothing as the world knows nothing of any one's inner life. There may
be depths or shallows in any character never dreamed of by the most intimate friend, much less
by the babbling world.

Mrs. Hayden moved about among her guests with a stately grace. She had always a pleasant faculty
of adjusting the broken links of conversation, supplying a repartee or asking a question, introducing
strange gentlemen and reviving timid debutantes with a pretty compliment or a gracious smile.

"My dear, I wish you would play something," she whispered to Miss Turner as she passed her,
"I think the group in the drawing room need a little change;" and no wonder, for there was
Mrs. Dyke in a hot dispute with a Unitarian over Robert Elsmere, while her pastor sat near,
occasionally adding something to Mrs. Dyke's emphatic remarks.

"It's a most blasphemous piece of presumption to present such a picture as that of the church.
As if it were in its last stages of decay, indeed! It was well such a weak-minded idiot as
Robert Elsmere died at the beginning of his career. I could never forgive the author if she
hadn't killed him," she was saying in an angry voice.

"We can take it simply as a symbol of the decay of his religion, and that is comforting," added
the minister, complacently.

"I am not at all in sympathy with the holy Catherine, with her prejudice and bigotry. If it
wasn't such a true picture of the many Catherines we find in real life, I should be quite disgusted,
but I do love to see real people in novels, then I know so much better how to deal with them,"
said a pretty young lady who aspired to be called intellectual because she liked to study character.

"Indeed, Catherine had a deep religious nature, which might be worthy of emulation in many
respects, and she is certainly a high ideal of wifely love," Mrs. Hayden interposed at this
critical juncture.

"Well, I didn't read the book for Catherine, but for the sake of knowing Robert and what he
did to make such a stir in the world. I'm opposed to novels, as a rule, and read as little
of one as I can," said Mrs. Dyke, smoothing her lap and looking at the minister. Mrs. Hayden
motioned to Kate to play, and presently the rooms were filled with harmony.

Kate Turner was a natural musician, and to-night she fairly excelled herself. The little passage
at arms just recorded had inspired her with emotions that could only be expressed in music,
and she played some time to the continued delight of her listeners. She finished at last with
a song that stirred every heart, and even Mrs. Dyke was visibly softened. "Verily 'music hath
charms to soothe a savage breast,'" murmured the intellectual young lady, who was sorry that
discussion of Robert Elsmere had been interrupted. She rather enjoyed Mrs. Dyke, for she was
an immensely interesting "character."

This reception, like all others, came to an end at last. Everybody expressed themselves as
highly delighted with their entertainment, and one by one reluctantly took their departure;
the gay lanterns on the lawn and among the shrubbery went out, the lights inside the splendid
mansion were finally extinguished, and only the quiet starlight illumined Terrace Hill.

Mrs. Hayden, from her high bay window, looked out over the sleeping city, then at the North
Star that beamed so brightly above her--that unerring beacon-light that guides so many lost
mariners into port. Some deep thought must have moved her, some hidden impulse stirred her
mind. She sighed. There was no visible reason for it. Then she turned and went down the stairs
to the nursery. Her two babies were sleeping sweetly. Mabel was asleep in her room, and all
was quiet. The hush seemed oppressive after so much gay confusion. Now she was in another element.
Now she was the mother, then she was a fashionable woman. She hastened back to her room, once
more gazed without and then thoughtfully retired.

CHAPTER II.

Kate Turner walked slowly along the street at the foot of Terrace Hill. She looked up at the
beautiful home where she had spent the previous evening, and as she saw the velvet lawn and
terraced walks bordered with bright flowers, she half pitied herself because she was only a
plodding music teacher. She was not envious, but she had such longing aspirations to be somebody
in the world; she wanted so many things, needed so much to complete her education, and starved
herself in so many ways for the sake of completing it, that sometimes she grew discontented
with her lot. Fortunately her moods did not last long, however, and especially when she went
home to her artist friend, Grace, with whom she shared rooms. They were both making their own
way in the world, and were a great help to each other, as well as a great comfort.

Kate was wondering what Mrs. Hayden did every day with her leisure. She should think she would
be tired always going to parties and lunches and operas, or receiving calls. "But then, I am
thankful to know her," she concluded, casting a last glance at the stately mansion before turning
the corner. "After all, life might be worse for me, and I can be a happy nobody if not a famous
somebody," she said to herself, as she ran upstairs, after stopping at the baker's for a loaf
of bread and a pot of jam.

"Well, Gracious, what noble message have you given to the world through your work to-day?"
she cried, a moment later, gaily peering into the studio through the portières that separated
their parlor from the work room.

"Is that you, Kate? Well, I've been trying the whole afternoon to make this Hebe look like
a modern Hypatia, but----"

"In other words," interrupted Kate, "you would change innocence into intellect. Now, look here,
Grace, just leave this dainty girl alone. She would never do to serve the gods if you gave
her the aspect and bearing of a goddess. Let her alone, or the world would not recognize her
as a representative woman," laughed Kate, inspecting the picture with critical eyes.

"Kate, stop laughing, and tell me truly if you think it would not do to give her a little more
independence."

"You know it's the worst thing in the world to give a woman even an inkling that such a thing
exists," said the mischievous Kate, with a total abandonment to consequences as she gave the
artist an impetuous hug.

"Well, let us have tea, and we'll discuss the subject later," said Grace, somewhat mollified.

"I am afraid, Gracious, you are something in the same mood I was when I started home to-night,
but I concluded to let 'dull care' take care of itself, and be merry while the sun shines,
which means as long as we have enough to pay our rent, and the prospect of a little more next
month," continued Kate as she brought a tiny oil stove from the depths of a closet and proceeded
to "put the kettle on."

"I have been so full of thoughts of the nineteenth century that I found it hard to go back
to the Pagan ages, but here this picture is ordered, and I must finish it by next week, so
I guess this one will have to go without my message," said Grace, a little gloomily, for above
all things she loved to put her own individuality into her pictures, which she generally did
with rare success.

"You mustn't have just one ideal of woman, or you'll lose the art of painting the sweetest
phases of womanhood," replied the busy housemaid from the sepulchral closet.

"Oh! if I have such excellent models as you make in that checked apron and dusting cap, I can
do nobly."

Grace laughed good humoredly as she cleaned her palette and set Hebe in one corner.

"Now, my dear, isn't there something I can do to help arrange the feast?" as she went into
the little back room they used for a kitchen.

"Yes, wash the grapes and open the jam while I cut the bread and pour the tea."

A few minutes later they were tête-à-tête at the little table, and as they sat down Grace said
with a comical smile: "Quite a difference between our banquet of last night and this, isn't there?"

"I should remark there is, but after all, Grace, I believe I am quite content. As I was passing
along at the foot of the hill this evening a momentary dissatisfaction came over me that I
couldn't have a few advantages like Mrs. Hayden's, not hers of course, but similar ones," with
a smile at the distinction, "and then I wondered how she spends all her leisure, for of course
she has the whole twenty-four hours at her disposal, and--well, to be brief, I would not want
to live without some object in life, and so I thought it best the way it is now."

"Very wise conclusion, Kate, that's just what I always say, and really who is there with whom
we would care to exchange places? There are so many kinds of people and so many things for
humanity to contend against, I don't know that I should want to change burdens with anyone."

"Mrs. Dyke, for instance, would you not think yourself fortunate to be like her?" said Kate,
with a merry twinkle in her eyes.

"Oh, deliver me from that comparison! Why, she carries everybody's sins on her shoulders; I
even heard she had taken Robert Elsmere to throw at the world!" laughed Grace.

"But not his wife; she didn't read about her. Wasn't it too funny to hear her go on last night,
and the way she looked at the minister to emphasize her position?"

"Yes, but how many there are like her--read just enough to know there are such and such characters
and such and such incidents. Now of course she has heard the minister define Robert's crime,
as he would call it I suppose, so she thinks she can use the whole argument," replied Grace,
a little scornfully.

"Mrs. Hayden interposed just at the right time. I was glad she did, too. It seems she has considered
Catherine's position and could speak a good word for her," said Kate, sipping her tea, thoughtfully.

"Well, if she calls her an ideal of wifely love, I don't admire the reality," exclaimed Grace,
with more vigor than elegance, as she put down her tea-cup.

"I got positively impatient," she continued, "when I read about her cruelty to Robert, judging
him in that inquisitor's fashion. Poor fellow! I think he died of a broken heart."

"But, Grace, she did what she thought was her religious duty, and it must have been hard for
her to withdraw herself so completely when she loved him so much," said the more charitable Kate.

"Do you call that love which would let him go tramping off alone, with not even a word of sympathy,
and so afraid that her religion would be contaminated she could not even hear him preach? I
don't pretend to be religious, but any religion stands on a poor foundation if it can be swept
away by anybody's opinions."

"It wasn't that; it was because she thought it was wrong to listen to heresy, as she supposed
it was, and----"

"How did she know? Had she taken pains to find out? Did she study it carefully and have a reason
for her cruel judgment?" interrupted the wrathful Grace.

"Well, she was conscientious and was doing what she had been taught was right."

"Kate, if there is anything that makes me out of patience with people it is when they hang
all their actions on what somebody else says, and that excuse is simply barbarous in this case."

"Remember that in religion one must follow what he thinks to be right, and Catherine Elsmere
represents a large class of people; in fact, the majority of religious people."

Kate was naturally inclined to be charitable, and this, added to her early training in a religious
home, as well as her position as a church member, made her understand Catherine's position
from a conscientious standpoint much more than Grace. She could readily appreciate the fixed
law of conscience Catherine had made for herself by pledging her sacred word of honor to her
father, whom she revered as an infallible authority, as most people revere the legends and
doctrines of the church.

"I admit that it is right to follow the dictates of one's own conscience, but I believe in
having an enlightened conscience, and a reason for opinions. For that matter, so did Robert
have a conscience, and while I don't understand his religion, I respect his honesty and effort.
There are a great many beautiful things in what he says, but there must be a mistake somewhere
in a religion that can not save to the uttermost, and his didn't. I haven't found one that
does," said Grace, with some irony.

"Nevertheless, Grace, there is nothing to warrant your assertion in the Bible. The Christian
religion is full of the most blessed promises of salvation in everything," said Kate, gently,
but flushing a little as she spoke, for she disliked talking religion with Grace, who was so
skeptical, although if compelled to do so, it was a matter of duty to stand up for her Christian
principles.

"Yes, I admit it gives many wonderful promises, but where are they realized? It seems to me
the very fact that the church has not proven them, made such people as Robert Elsmere doubt
them even as possible of fulfillment."

"Why Grace, surely you don't disbelieve in the power of God to fulfill the promises?" exclaimed
Kate, deeply pained.

"I am talking from Robert Elsmere's standpoint," answered Grace, evasively.

"My sympathy is with Catherine, for to her, religion was a living answer to her deepest needs
and feelings, and to doubt that answer was nothing less than sacrilege," said Kate, with a
bright red spot on either cheek.

"Well," answered Grace, throwing down her napkin, "I want to see a religion that will stand
infinite investigation without falling into ruins, and Robert reasoned himself away from the
old beliefs and dogmas because he investigated them. He used his God-given reason, and I think
that is to be used as well as the blind, unquestioning faith of Catherine."

"There are times when we need faith and times when we need reason, but faith applies to religion
and reason to the things of the world," replied Kate, recalling what she had heard a few Sundays
before.

"Well, to me the ideal of religion is a marriage, a union of faith and reason--but this is
idle talk. What does anybody know of such perfection as I demand anyway?"

Grace impatiently pushed her chair away from the table, and went to look at her picture again,
in a decidedly gloomy mood.

CHAPTER III.

     "Such is the world, understand it, despise it, love it; cheerfully
     hold on thy way through it, with thy eye on highest
     loadstars."--Carlyle.

It was a week since the party. Mrs. Hayden had been to the opera and returned late. Her husband
was absent on a business trip, and she felt a vague uneasiness come over her as she entered
the room. She knew not why, but it seemed unusually lonely without him. She seldom went out
alone, but to-night she had gone out as much to while away the time as to hear the music. After
paying her usual visit to the nursery, she went to bed, but slept little for several hours.

About 4 o'clock she was awakened by stifling fumes of smoke and startling cries of fire. Was
it too late? She sprang up and ran to the nursery stairs, but the scorching flames met her,
and she retreated to the window, shrieking for help, only to get a glimpse of someone through
the smoke climbing toward her.

"Hold on!" cried the fireman, and reached out his arms for her just as she fell back fainting.
Grasping her firmly, the brave man dragged her out of the window, and began his perilous descent.
When about half way down, the ladder fell, but its burden was expected, and mattress and bed-clothing
saved them from what might have been worse. As it was, the fireman escaped with a few bruises
and slight scorching, and Mrs. Hayden with a broken limb. First they feared she was dead, but
after a few moments she revived and moaned feebly for husband and children. Little Mabel clung
desperately to her mother, and sobbingly told her "only the house was burnt. Fred and Jamie
were safe, and now she must get up and be glad." Poor child, instinctively she knew the value
of life above all other things.

"How did it happen, where did it start, and who saw it first?" were the queries on every side.
Some one down at the foot of the hill had seen a tiny blue flame licking the corner of the
roof. The fire alarm was touched, the bells set to ringing, and the observers leaped up the
terraced stairways and arrived at the top just as the whole house burst into flames. The fire
company had not arrived in time to do anything, as it was impossible to climb the hill with
their heavy trucks, and their hose was not long enough to reach the flames, so the house was
gone. Many people had gathered from all quarters in the fashion peculiar to fire crowds, but
now they had seen the spectacle, and, as there was nothing further to see or do, they slowly
dispersed.

Mrs. Hayden and the children were removed to the hotel and a telegram sent to Mr. Hayden, informing
him of the catastrophe.

When he arrived, twelve hours later, he found his wife confined to the bed with a nervous fever
and a broken limb. The children were safe and well cared for, and though his elegant home was
in ruins, John Hayden was deeply thankful. Marion would, of course, get over the trouble, and
things were much better than they might have been, he said. So he tried to look on the bright
side, and after a few cheering words and a loving kiss he left her, to run up the hill and
view the ruins.

It was early twilight, and as he beheld the smouldering debris, and realized that the comforts
and luxuries, possibly the necessities of life had gone up in the smoke that even now curled
in sullen wreaths from the blackened heaps, he bowed his head and wept.

It was but a moment, but that moment was the bitterest of his whole life. He knew better than
anyone else that this was probably the beginning of financial misfortune, for a very important
transaction was even now pending that he feared would take his all. As a merchant he had an
honorable reputation and position, but this unfortunate speculation would ruin him. Failure
seemed inevitable. But he hoped to save enough to pay every debt and still be able to live,
even though in a modest way. Now he would not even get his insurance on his house, for in his
financial embarrassment he had failed to renew his policy, which had expired but few days before.
He would now have little besides this spot, this beautiful hill. Yes, it was valuable, and
in time could be sold for what it was worth, but not now, and in the meantime what should he
do? How would Marion take it? Why had he not told her before he went away? But he had known
it himself only a few days.

"Oh, my dear wife, would that we could commence life as we did when we were first married!"
he groaned.

His mind went back to the past. He looked again into her sweet, girlish face, into her clear,
earnest eyes. He remembered how they had both desired to live a religious life, how he, having
been brought up in a religious home, undertook in vain to explain the Bible where it was dark
and unreasonable to her. He remembered how fruitlessly she had tried to be converted, and that
he had found even through her earnest seeking that he had naught but the letter of religion
and was also as helpless as to the manner of salvation. And then they had given up trying.
She sought, for a while, to satisfy herself by doing for others, giving her time and energy
to the poor that found her out and besieged her for favors, while he had been satisfied to
let religion alone and believe with the majority concerning the doctrines and dogmas.

As the years went on, and prosperity came to them, he had grown more and more indifferent,
and finally, when they moved away from their early home and entered a new city, they had begun
a new life, as it were.

He remembered, regretfully, that she had entered the competitive ranks of society, at his wish
at first, because he thought it would add to his popularity as a merchant and increase the
number and quality of his customers. Too well he remembered that the elegant parties and party
costumes were first his own instigation, and now that these were likely to be taken away, he
felt responsible for her happiness, and had a secret misgiving, born of his early religious
training perhaps, of retribution and judgment. He hoped indeed that she would be able to rise
above circumstances, but he was utterly at a loss to know how she would take it, for although
he knew that deep down in her heart were still traces of the early longings, he felt vaguely
there was no way to satisfy them any more now than in the past, and probably they would only
increase the difficulty of finding happiness.

John Hayden was kind-hearted and upright in all his ways, strictly honest and conscientious,
but apt to be a little one-sided in his judgments, simply because, as a rule, he reasoned from
one standpoint, thought in one groove. He had never considered the questions from this point
of view, and therefore they were seriously perplexing. Like many another he lived within his
own world, and knew naught of any other. In the later years of their married life he and Marion
had grown a little apart in the closest confidences, but it was caused by circumstances more
than anything else, and notwithstanding the present misery he was sure of her love.

"Poor girl, I must hasten back to her," he murmured, as he rose from his uncomfortable position.
"After all, I can thank God for my family, my health, my honor, for no matter how much we may
suffer, no one else shall suffer through me."

There was a little pang at the thought of the privations in possible store for the family through
him, but he had resolved to make the best of circumstances and be brave as possible. Once more
he looked over the scene, but there were only dim black shadows in the starlight, and he went
down toward the twinkling lights of the city below.

CHAPTER IV.

     "Society is like a piece of frozen water; and skating well the
     great art of social life."--Letitia Elizabeth Landon.

"Too bad about Hayden, isn't it?" said one business man to another after the crash came.

"Yes, I am sorry for him, but he is coming out honorably, and I hope he'll commence again before
long."

"Well, he is made of the right stuff if he did make one mistake, and I guess he will never
make the same blunder again. Too bad though about his house. No insurance at all, and that
was a magnificent property."

"Indeed it was, and I hope for his wife's sake he can sell the lot and get another home for her."

"Can't do it now though--real estate is too low for any use in Hampton."

"Yes, that's so. The only way is to mortgage, and that seems a pity in this case--" and they
passed on out of hearing.

John Hayden, standing within the doorway of the open store, had overheard the remarks, and
while they pained, they cheered him. From that moment his resolve was taken, and as soon as
everything was honorably settled he applied for credit of his old friends in the wholesale
houses and they gladly gave it, for his reputation was unimpeachable.

Then he rented a modest little store and began anew.

Mrs. Hayden lay sick seven weeks, and arose a weak and nervous invalid, "doomed to carry a
still limb all her life," the physicians said. They could not discover why her limb was stiff,
but there was no help for it.

