AN UNPROTECTED FEMALE AT THE PYRAMIDS

by Anthony Trollope

In the happy days when we were young, no description conveyed to us so complete an idea of
mysterious reality as that of an Oriental city.  We knew it was actually there, but had such
vague notions of its ways and looks!  Let any one remember his early impressions as to Bagdad
or Grand Cairo, and then say if this was not so.  It was probably taken from the "Arabian Nights,"
and the picture produced was one of strange, fantastic, luxurious houses; of women who were
either very young and very beautiful, or else very old and very cunning; but in either state
exercising much more influence in life than women in the East do now; of good-natured, capricious,
though sometimes tyrannical monarchs; and of life full of quaint mysteries, quite unintelligible
in every phasis, and on that account the more picturesque.

And perhaps Grand Cairo has thus filled us with more wonder even than Bagdad.  We have been
in a certain manner at home at Bagdad, but have only visited Grand Cairo occasionally.  I know
no place which was to me, in early years, so delightfully mysterious as Grand Cairo.

But the route to India and Australia has changed all this.  Men from all countries going to
the East, now pass through Cairo, and its streets and costumes are no longer strange to us.
It has become also a resort for invalids, or rather for those who fear that they may become
invalids if they remain in a cold climate during the winter months. And thus at Cairo there
is always to be found a considerable population of French, Americans, and of English.  Oriental
life is brought home to us, dreadfully diluted by western customs, and the delights of the
"Arabian Nights" are shorn of half their value.  When we have seen a thing it is never so magnificent
to us as when it was half unknown.

It is not much that we deign to learn from these Orientals,--we who glory in our civilisation.
We do not copy their silence or their abstemiousness, nor that invariable mindfulness of his
own personal dignity which always adheres to a Turk or to an Arab.  We chatter as much at Cairo
as elsewhere, and eat as much and drink as much, and dress ourselves generally in the same
old ugly costume.  But we do usually take upon ourselves to wear red caps, and we do ride on
donkeys.

Nor are the visitors from the West to Cairo by any means confined to the male sex.  Ladies
are to be seen in the streets quite regardless of the Mahommedan custom which presumes a veil
to be necessary for an appearance in public; and, to tell the truth, the Mahommedans in general
do not appear to be much shocked by their effrontery.

A quarter of the town has in this way become inhabited by men wearing coats and waistcoats,
and by women who are without veils; but the English tongue in Egypt finds its centre at Shepheard's
Hotel.  It is here that people congregate who are looking out for parties to visit with them
the Upper Nile, and who are generally all smiles and courtesy; and here also are to be found
they who have just returned from this journey, and who are often in a frame of mind towards
their companions that is much less amiable.  From hence, during the winter, a cortege proceeds
almost daily to the pyramids, or to Memphis, or to the petrified forest, or to the City of
the Sun.  And then, again, four or five times a month the house is filled with young aspirants
going out to India, male and female, full of valour and bloom; or with others coming home,
no longer young, no longer aspiring, but laden with children and grievances.

The party with whom we are at present concerned is not about to proceed further than the Pyramids,
and we shall be able to go with them and return in one and the same day.

It consisted chiefly of an English family, Mr. and Mrs. Damer, their daughter, and two young
sons;--of these chiefly, because they were the nucleus to which the others had attached themselves
as adherents; they had originated the journey, and in the whole management of it Mr. Damer
retarded himself as the master.

The adherents were, firstly, M. Delabordeau, a Frenchman, now resident in Cairo, who had given
out that he was in some way concerned in the canal about to be made between the Mediterranean
and the Red Sea.  In discussion on this subject he had become acquainted with Mr. Damer; and
although the latter gentleman, true to English interests, perpetually declared that the canal
would never be made, and thus irritated M. Delabordeau not a little--nevertheless, some measure
of friendship had grown up between them.

There was also an American gentleman, Mr. Jefferson Ingram, who was comprising all countries
and all nations in one grand tour, as American gentlemen so often do.  He was young and good-looking,
and had made himself especially agreeable to Mr. Damer, who had declared, more than once, that
Mr. Ingram was by far the most rational American he had ever met.  Mr. Ingram would listen
to Mr. Damer by the half-hour as to the virtue of the British Constitution, and had even sat
by almost with patience when Mr. Damer had expressed a doubt as to the good working of the
United States' scheme of policy,--which, in an American, was most wonderful.  But some of the
sojourners at Shepheard's had observed that Mr. Ingram was in the habit of talking with Miss
Damer almost as much as with her father, and argued from that, that fond as the young man was
of politics, he did sometimes turn his mind to other things also.

And then there was Miss Dawkins.  Now Miss Dawkins was an important person, both as to herself
and as to her line of life, and she must be described.  She was, in the first place, an unprotected
female of about thirty years of age.  As this is becoming an established profession, setting
itself up as it were in opposition to the old world idea that women, like green peas, cannot
come to perfection without supporting- sticks, it will be understood at once what were Miss
Dawkins's sentiments.  She considered--or at any rate so expressed herself--that peas could
grow very well without sticks, and could not only grow thus unsupported, but could also make
their way about the world without any incumbrance of sticks whatsoever.  She did not intend,
she said, to rival Ida Pfeiffer, seeing that she was attached in a moderate way to bed and
board, and was attached to society in a manner almost more than moderate; but she had no idea
of being prevented from seeing anything she wished to see because she had neither father, nor
husband, nor brother available for the purpose of escort.  She was a human creature, with arms
and legs, she said; and she intended to use them.  And this was all very well; but nevertheless
she had a strong inclination to use the arms and legs of other people when she could make them
serviceable.

In person Miss Dawkins was not without attraction.  I should exaggerate if I were to say that
she was beautiful and elegant; but she was good looking, and not usually ill mannered.  She
was tall, and gifted with features rather sharp and with eyes very bright.  Her hair was of
the darkest shade of brown, and was always worn in bandeaux, very neatly. She appeared generally
in black, though other circumstances did not lead one to suppose that she was in mourning;
and then, no other travelling costume is so convenient!  She always wore a dark broad- brimmed
straw hat, as to the ribbons on which she was rather particular.  She was very neat about her
gloves and boots; and though it cannot be said that her dress was got up without reference
to expense, there can be no doubt that it was not effected without considerable outlay,--and
more considerable thought.

Miss Dawkins--Sabrina Dawkins was her name, but she seldom had friends about her intimate enough
to use the word Sabrina--was certainly a clever young woman.  She could talk on most subjects,
if not well, at least well enough to amuse.  If she had not read much, she never showed any
lamentable deficiency; she was good-humoured, as a rule, and could on occasions be very soft
and winning.  People who had known her long would sometimes say that she was selfish; but with
new acquaintance she was forbearing and self-denying.

With what income Miss Dawkins was blessed no one seemed to know.  She lived like a gentlewoman,
as far as outward appearance went, and never seemed to be in want; but some people would say
that she knew very well how many sides there were to a shilling, and some enemy had once declared
that she was an "old soldier."  Such was Miss Dawkins.

She also, as well as Mr. Ingram and M. Delabordeau, had laid herself out to find the weak side
of Mr. Damer.  Mr. Damer, with all his family, was going up the Nile, and it was known that
he had room for two in his boat over and above his own family.  Miss Dawkins had told him that
she had not quite made up her mind to undergo so great a fatigue, but that, nevertheless, she
had a longing of the soul to see something of Nubia.  To this Mr. Damer had answered nothing
but "Oh!" which Miss Dawkins had not found to be encouraging.

But she had not on that account despaired.  To a married man there are always two sides, and
in this instance there was Mrs. Damer as well as Mr. Damer.  When Mr. Damer said "Oh!" Miss
Dawkins sighed, and said, "Yes, indeed!" then smiled, and betook herself to Mrs. Damer.

Now Mrs. Damer was soft-hearted, and also somewhat old-fashioned.  She did not conceive any
violent affection for Miss Dawkins, but she told her daughter that "the single lady by herself
was a very nice young woman, and that it was a thousand pities she should have to go about
so much alone like."

Miss Damer had turned up her pretty nose, thinking, perhaps, how small was the chance that
it ever should be her own lot to be an unprotected female.  But Miss Dawkins carried her point
at any rate as regarded the expedition to the Pyramids.

Miss Damer, I have said, had a pretty nose.  I may also say that she had pretty eyes, mouth,
and chin, with other necessary appendages, all pretty.  As to the two Master Damers, who were
respectively of the ages of fifteen and sixteen, it may be sufficient to say that they were
conspicuous for red caps and for the constancy with which they raced their donkeys.

And now the donkeys, and the donkey boys, and the dragomans were all standing at the steps
of Shepheard's Hotel.  To each donkey there was a donkey-boy, and to each gentleman there was
a dragoman, so that a goodly cortege was assembled, and a goodly noise was made.  It may here
be remarked, perhaps with some little pride, that not half the noise is given in Egypt to persons
speaking any other language that is bestowed on those whose vocabulary is English.

This lasted for half an hour.  Had the party been French the donkeys would have arrived only
fifteen minutes before the appointed time.  And then out came Damer pere and Damer mere, Damer
fille, and Damer fils. Damer mere was leaning on her husband, as was her wont.  She was not
an unprotected female, and had no desire to make any attempts in that line.  Damer fille was
attended sedulously by Mr. Ingram, for whose demolishment, however, Mr. Damer still brought
up, in a loud voice, the fag ends of certain political arguments which he would fain have poured
direct into the ears of his opponent, had not his wife been so persistent in claiming her privileges.
M. Delabordeau should have followed with Miss Dawkins, but his French politeness, or else his
fear of the unprotected female, taught him to walk on the other side of the mistress of the party.

Miss Dawkins left the house with an eager young Damer yelling on each side of her; but nevertheless,
though thus neglected by the gentlemen of the party, she was all smiles and prettiness, and
looked so sweetly on Mr. Ingram when that gentleman stayed a moment to help her on to her donkey,
that his heart almost misgave him for leaving her as soon as she was in her seat.

And then they were off.  In going from the hotel to the Pyramids our party had not to pass
through any of the queer old narrow streets of the true Cairo--Cairo the Oriental.  They all
lay behind them as they went down by the back of the hotel, by the barracks of the Pasha and
the College of the Dervishes, to the village of old Cairo and the banks of the Nile.

Here they were kept half an hour while their dragomans made a bargain with the ferryman, a
stately reis, or captain of a boat, who declared with much dignity that he could not carry
them over for a sum less than six times the amount to which he was justly entitled; while the
dragomans, with great energy on behalf of their masters, offered him only five times that sum.

As far as the reis was concerned, the contest might soon have been at an end, for the man was
not without a conscience; and would have been content with five times and a half; but then
the three dragomans quarrelled among themselves as to which should have the paying of the money,
and the affair became very tedious.

"What horrid, odious men!" said Miss Dawkins, appealing to Mr. Damer. "Do you think they will
let us go over at all?"

"Well, I suppose they will; people do get over generally, I believe. Abdallah!  Abdallah! why
don't you pay the man?  That fellow is always striving to save half a piastre for me."

"I wish he wasn't quite so particular," said Mrs. Damer, who was already becoming rather tired;
"but I'm sure he's a very honest man in trying to protect us from being robbed."

"That he is," said Miss Dawkins.  "What a delightful trait of national character it is to see
these men so faithful to their employers."  And then at last they got over the ferry, Mr. Ingram
having descended among the combatants, and settled the matter in dispute by threats and shouts,
and an uplifted stick.

They crossed the broad Nile exactly at the spot where the nilometer, or river guage, measures
from day to day, and from year to year, the increasing or decreasing treasures of the stream,
and landed at a village where thousands of eggs are made into chickens by the process of artificial
incubation.

Mrs. Damer thought that it was very hard upon the maternal hens--the hens which should have
been maternal--that they should be thus robbed of the delights of motherhood.

"So unnatural, you know," said Miss Dawkins; "so opposed to the fostering principles of creation.
Don't you think so, Mr. Ingram?"

Mr. Ingram said he didn't know.  He was again seating Miss Damer on her donkey, and it must
be presumed that he performed this feat clumsily; for Fanny Damer could jump on and off the
animal with hardly a finger to help her, when her brother or her father was her escort; but
now, under the hands of Mr. Ingram, this work of mounting was one which required considerable
time and care.  All which Miss Dawkins observed with precision.

"It's all very well talking," said Mr. Damer, bringing up his donkey nearly alongside that
of Mr. Ingram, and ignoring his daughter's presence, just as he would have done that of his
dog; "but you must admit that political power is more equally distributed in England than it
is in America."

