EARLY REVIEWS

OF

ENGLISH POETS

EDITED WITH AN INTRODUCTION

BY

JOHN LOUIS HANEY, PH.D.

Assistant Professor of English and History, Central High School, Philadelphia; Research Fellow
in English, University of Pennsylvania

PHILADELPHIA THE EGERTON PRESS 1904

COPYRIGHT, 1904 BY JOHN LOUIS HANEY

PRESS OF THE NEW ERA PRINTING COMPANY, LANCASTER, PA.

TO

MY FRIEND AND TEACHER

PROFESSOR FELIX E. SCHELLING

OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA

PREFACE

"Among the amusing and instructive books that remain to be written, one of the most piquant
would be a history of the criticism with which the most celebrated literary productions have
been greeted on their first appearance before the world." It is quite possible that when Dr.
William Matthews began his essay on Curiosities of Criticism with these words, he failed to
grasp the full significance of that future undertaking. Mr. Churton Collins recently declared
that "a very amusing and edifying record might be compiled partly out of a selection of the
various verdicts passed contemporaneously by reviews on particular works, and partly out of
comparisons of the subsequent fortunes of works with their fortunes while submitted to this
censorship." Both critics recognize the fact that such a volume would be entertaining and instructive;
but, from another point of view, it would also be a somewhat doleful book. Even a reader of
meagre imagination and rude sensibilities could not peruse such a volume without picturing
in his mind the anguish and the heart-ache which those bitter and often vicious attacks inflicted
upon the unfortunate victims whose works were being assailed.

Authors (particularly sensitive poets) have been at all times the sport and plaything of the
critics. Mrs. Oliphant, in her Literary History of England, said with much truth: "There are
few things so amusing as to read a really 'slashing article'--except perhaps to write it. It
is infinitely easier and gayer work than a well-weighed and serious criticism, and will always
be more popular. The lively and brilliant examples of the art which dwell in the mind of the
reader are invariably of this class." Thus it happens that we remember the witty onslaughts
of the reviewers, and often ignore the fact that certain witticisms drove Byron, for example,
into a frenzy of anger that called forth the most vigorous satire of the century; and others
so completely unnerved Shelley that he felt tempted to write no more; and still others were
so unanimously hostile in tone that Coleridge thought the whole detested tribe of critics was
in league against his literary success. There were, of course, such admirable personalities
as Wordsworth's--for the most part indifferent to the strongest torrent of abuse; and clever
craftsmen like Tennyson, who, although hurt, read the criticisms and profited by them; but,
on the other hand, there are still well-informed readers who believe that the Quarterly Review
at least hastened the death of poor Keats.

It has been suggested that such a volume of the "choice crudities of criticism" as is here
proposed would likewise fulfill the desirable purpose of avenging the author upon his ancient
enemy, the critic, by showing how absurd the latter's utterances often are, and what a veritable
farrago of folly those collected utterances can make. We may rest assured that however much
hostile criticism may have pained an author, it has never inflicted a permanent injury upon
a good book. If there appear to be works that have been thus more or less obscured, the fault
will probably be found not in the critic but in the works themselves. According to this agreeable
theory, which we would all fain believe, the triumph of the ignorant or malevolent critic cannot
endure; sooner or later the author's merit will be recognized and he will come into his own.

The present volume does not attempt to fulfill the conditions suggested by Dr. Matthews and
Mr. Collins. A history of contemporary criticism of famous authors would be a more ambitious
undertaking, necessitating an extensive apparatus of notes and references. It seeks merely
to gather a number of interesting anomalies of criticism--reviews of famous poems and famous
poets differing more or less from the modern consensus of opinion concerning those poems and
their authors. Although most of the chosen reviews are unfavorable, several others have been
selected to afford evidence of an early appreciation of certain poets. A few unexpectedly favorable
notices, such as the Monthly Review's critique of Browning's Sordello, are printed because
they appear to be unique. The chief criterion in selecting these reviews (apart from the effort
to represent most of the periodicals and the principal poets between Gray and Browning) has
been that of interest to the modern reader. In most cases, criticisms of a writer's earlier
works were preferred as more likely to be spontaneous and uninfluenced by his growing literary
reputation. Thus the volume does not attempt to trace the development of English critical methods,
nor to supply a hand-book of representative English criticism; it offers merely a selection
of bygone but readable reviews--what the critics thought, or, in some cases, pretended to think,
of works of poets whom we have since held in honorable esteem. The short notices and the well-known
longer reviews are printed entire; but considerations of space and interest necessitated excisions
in a few cases, all of which are, of course, properly indicated. The spelling and punctuation
of the original texts have been carefully followed.

The history of English critical journals has not yet been adequately written. The following
introduction offers a rapid survey of the subject, compiled principally from the sources indicated
in the bibliographical list. I am indebted to Professor Felix E. Schelling of the University
of Pennsylvania, and to Dr. Robert Ellis Thompson and Professor Albert H. Smyth of the Philadelphia
Central High School for many suggestions that have been of value in writing the introduction.
Dr. Edward Z. Davis examined at my request certain pamphlets in the British Museum that threw
additional light upon the history of the early reviews. Dr. A.S.W. Rosenbach and Professor
J.H. Moffatt read the proofs of the introduction and notes respectively, and suggested several
noteworthy improvements.

J.L.H.

CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL, PHILADELPHIA.

CONTENTS

Preface                                                       vii Introduction            
xiii Bibliography                                                  lvi

REVIEWS

GRAY       Odes (Monthly Review)                              1
GOLDSMITH  The Traveller (Critical Review)                    5
COWPER     Poems, 1782 (Critical Review)                     10
BURNS      Poems, 1786 (Edinburgh Magazine)                  13
           Poems, 1786 (Critical Review)                     15
WORDSWORTH Descriptive Sketches (Monthly Review)             16
           An Evening Walk (Monthly Review)                  19
           Lyrical Ballads (Critical Review)                 20
           Poems, 1807 (Edinburgh Review)                    24
COLERIDGE  Christabel (Edinburgh Review)                     47
SOUTHEY    Madoc (Monthly Review)                            60
LAMB       Blank Verse (Monthly Review)                      65
           Album Verses (Literary Gazette)                   66
LANDOR     Gebir (British Critic)                            68
           Gebir (Monthly Review)                            69
SCOTT      Marmion (Edinburgh Review)                        70
BYRON      Hours of Idleness (Edinburgh Review)              94
           Childe Harold (Christian Observer)               101
SHELLEY    Alastor (Monthly Review)                         115
           The Cenci (London Magazine)                      116
           Adonais (Literary Gazette)                       129
KEATS      Endymion (Quarterly Review)                      135
           Endymion (Blackwood's Magazine)                  141
TENNYSON   Timbuctoo (Athenæum)                             151
           Poems, 1833 (Quarterly Review)                   152
           The Princess (Literary Gazette)                  176
BROWNING   Paracelsus (Athenæum)                            187
           Sordello (Monthly Review)                        188
           Men and Women (Saturday Review)                  189

Notes                                                         197 Index                   
223

INTRODUCTION

To the modern reader, with an abundance of periodicals of all sorts and upon all subjects at
hand, it seems hardly possible that this wealth of ephemeral literature was virtually developed
within the past two centuries. It offers such a rational means for the dissemination of the
latest scientific and literary news that the mind undeceived by facts would naturally place
the origin of the periodical near the invention of printing itself. Apart from certain sporadic
manifestations of what is termed, by courtesy, periodical literature, the real beginning of
that important department of letters was in the innumerable Mercurii that flourished in London
after the outbreak of the Civil War. Although the British Museum Catalogue presents a long
list of these curious messengers and news-carriers, the only one that could be of interest
in the present connection is the Mercurius Librarius; or a Catalogue of Books Printed and Published
at London[A] (1668-70), the contents of which simply fulfilled the promise of its title.

Literary journals in England were, however, not a native development, but were copied, like
the fashions and artistic norms of that period, from the French. 

"Come on, girl! Thou therefore my witness' act of truth."

Once again I was struck by lightning of his glance, as this is directed upward at the moon, so
as to see the middle of the tangle of his hair and beard only discolored the white eyeballs were.
His chest was working, that the red flowers are dancing motion, and
with one voice, as if the thunder rolls among the clouds, he said:

"You
who put the cart before the tiger, snake-winning, nocturnal goddess!

You in the moonlight on mountain peaks dancing with the skull necklace rattling, snarling, blood shell
swinging, potash, Mistress of the robbers, you've led me through a thousand threats, hear me!
So help me withholds never with the victim, as I have always kept your laws faithfully, as
I also with the faithful proceeded after your Kamanita statute, which commands us 'senders' if
the ransom does not arrive at the appointed hour, the prisoners saw through the middle and
throw the body parts on the road - so help me you will now most of my Not stand to tear my chains
and set me free from the hands of my enemies! "

So saying, he made a violent movement - the chains rattled - Anne and legs were free - the two
horsemen who thought he was lying on the floor, he struck a third the piece of chain that hung
from his wrists, down, and before any of us realized right what had happened had Angulimala swung
over the parapet. With a Satagira wild cry rushed after him .-- This was the last thing I saw
and heard.

Afterwards I learned that Angulimala was overthrown, his leg was broken and the Guard had been
arrested, but later he had then died in prison under torture, and His head was above the northern
gate fitted, and Medini woselbst Somadatta him have seen.

By Wahrheitsakt Angulimala the last question and the last hope had
left me.

For I knew that even those devilish goddess had no miracle to save him can act if he does not
the power of truth would have on his side.

What was now out of me, so I cared little, for on this earth anyway Everything I lose it. Only
in the Paradise of the West we could see each other again: You were gone before and I would,
I hoped to follow soon. There flourished the happiness, all the rest were indifferent.

Since Satagira his courtship continued and my mother always whining
and crying Representations made, they would die broken-hearted if
they through me the shame would suffer, that I would remain unmarried
parents sit in the house - but then they would just as well bring
the ugliest girl to Kosambi world - because finally waned gradually
my resistance.

Incidentally, I had now not so much object to Satagira as before.

I could not help but recognize the constancy and fidelity of his
affection, and I felt also that I owe him gratitude was because he
had avenged the death of my beloved.

So I was then - as again almost a year had passed - the bride Satagira.

XXVIII. On the shores of Heavenly GANGA

As Kamanita noticed that even here, in the place of bliss, those memories are still tender, newly awakened
soul of the lover like with dark wings overshadowed, he took her
by the hand and led them by their common flight after that lovely
hill directed, on the slope he had recently located and watched the
games had the floating.

Here they camped. Even were trees and bushes, meadows and hillsides filled with countless floating
figures, red, blue and white.

New groups surrounded them, the newly awakened to be welcomed.

And the two mingled in the ranks of the players.

For a long time they were back and forth through the woods, the rocks, over fields and lotus ponds
floated, where she led the dance, as they met those white people at that time Kamanita had
asked for daring with her trip to the Ganga. As they dance in the hands ranged, she said with a sweet
smile:

"Are you now on the shore of the Ganga been? Now you have a companion."

"Not yet," answered Kamanita.

"What's that?" asked Vasitthi.

And Kamanita told her.

"We want to go," said Vasitthi. "Oh, how many times I've looked up in the muddy bottom Erdental
thought to the distant sky reflection of her current, and to the
blessed realm, by their be embraced and irrigated, and asked if we
probably once united in this place of bliss would be.

Irresistibly draws me there now, along with you on their shores to this stage. "

They broke away from the chain of the round dance and deflected its flight in a direction that they
leading away from their own ponds far.

After a while they saw no more ponds, which Lotus flowers blessed figures, contributed more and
more took off the flowers, more rarely encountered it floating figures,
herds of antelope enlivened the plane on the lake sailing swans a
trail of bright waves across the dark water after the sinking.

The hills, which initially become more rugged and rocky had disappeared entirely.

They hovered over a flat, desert-like plane, which passed with tiger
grass and thorn bushes was.

Before them stretched the endless arc of a palm forest.

They reached the forest.

Deeper and deeper they were surrounded by the shadows. The scarred shafts shone such as bronze. High
above the treetops rustled with brazen clang.

Before they started glittering dots and stripes to dance. And suddenly they streamed Such a light
gloss contrary, that they had to keep his hands to his eyes.

It was as if in the forest a huge colonnade of bare silver pillar stands, the light of the rising
Sun threw back.

When she dared to take the hands back of the eye, they floated just between the past palm trees
of the forest beyond.

Before them was the celestial Ganga, their horizons to the silver surface breitend while wave at her
feet flat blades, like liquid starlight, flame-like the pearl-gray Sand of the shallow banks licking.

If
otherwise, the sky becomes gradually brighter down so it was here the other way around: the ultramarine
blue passed into Indigo, which eventually almost entirely with a black border on the silver-white
Supported mirage.

The fragrance of paradise flowers nothing was felt.

But in Malachittale to the coral tree those memories of all pregnant fragrance fragrances was
collected, so here blew the world's electricity along a cooler and drier air, the absence of all
fragrances, the completely pure as the only Fragrance suitable.

And he seemed eager Vasitthi einzuschlürfen as a refreshing drink,
while Kamanita breath away.

Also from that sweet music of the spirits was heard not the slightest sound. But from the river
seemed powerful, booming thunder-like sounds to rise.

"Listen," - whispered Vasitthi and raised her hand.

"Strange" - said Kamanita.

"Once I had returned to a cottage located at the exits a ravine and was where a small, smooth
river flowed past, clear in its Water after I washed my hike my feet. While the night was a mighty
rain down, and when I awake in the cabin was, I heard the stream that night softly rustling
had tempestuous roared and raged.

At the same time I heard a rumbling, thundering Sound, which I certainly did not explain.
The next morning I saw that from become the clear stream, a rushing
mountain stream with gray, foamy waves, was in large stones which
then fell rolling and jumping.

And these were the ones that this noise had caused.

How will it get that here now, listening to these sounds, this memory from my pilgrimage in me
rises? "

       

"It is because" Vasitthi replied, "because in that mountain stones in the stream of heavenly
Ganga but worlds are rolled and mitgetrieben, and they are there, of which those resulting thunder-like
rumbling sounds. "

"Worlds" - Kamanita cried in horror.

Vasitthi smiled and floated on then, but was shocked at her robe she Kamanita back.

"Beware Vasitthi know!

Who, what powers, what terrible forces outside of this World river float, powers, into whose
hands you could get if you left this shore. I tremble at the thought of seeing you suddenly
swept away. "

"Could you not follow me then?"

"Certainly, I would follow you. But who knows if I could reach you if we are not would tear each other?
And even if we stayed together, what misery it would be to be carried
into the Unlimited, far away from this trusted place of bliss.

"

"In the limit!" Vasitthi repeated thoughtfully, and her eyes wandered over the surface the
heavenly Ganga out to where the silver flood reached the edge of the black sky, and seemed
to want to penetrate still further, - "and because there is eternal bliss, where Limit is?
"She said, as it lost in thought.

       "Vasitthi!"

Kamanita cried, seriously frightening - was "I, I had never here out! Come, my dear, come!
"

And even more anxious as the coral tree, he moved away from them.

Not angry, she followed him, and she turned, however, between the extreme palms, the main and
a last glimpse of the heavenly power threw ....

* * * * *

And again they perched on their seats in the lotus ponds crystal clear, again floated between them
jewel-flowering trees and mingled among the ranks of the blessed and enjoyed the heavenly bliss,
happily undisturbed in their love.

But when they met in round one of the whites, said this:

"So you're really been on the shore of the Ganga?"

"How can you know that we've been there?"

"I see it, for all who were there who, almost a shadow over the brows why. I will also not there.
And you will not go well for the second time, no one does, "

XXIX. THE SCENT OF CORAL BLOSSOM

They visited again in fact not that inhospitable shores of the celestial Ganga. Often but she
drew her flight to the Valley of the Malachitfelsen. Under the crown of the mighty Coral tree
stored, they breathed fragrance of all those scents that emanated from the crimson blossoms,
and in the depths of her memory will open the prospect of their former
lives.

       

Soon, in palaces, now in huts they found themselves again, but whether wrapped in silk and muslin
or dressed in the coarse products of the village loom: always was
the mutual love there.

Soon she was crowned by the success of the Association, now the separation was by life fate or by
the death of her miserable fate: but happy or unhappy, the love remained the same.

And they looked at other times when the people were now more violent than in those forever unforgotten
hero days, when he tore himself from her arms and mounted his Kampfilfen, to move to the Ilfenstadt
and his friends, the Pandaverprinzen, in the struggle against the Kuruinge assist, where he then
fighting on the side of Arjuna and Krishna, on the tenth Days of the gigantic battle at the
level Kurukschetra breathed his soul heroes. However, please when she received the news of his
death, mounted before the palace, of all their wives followed, the stake, which they set fire with
his own hand.

       * * * * *

And again they found themselves in strange places and in different
nature.

It was no longer the Valley of the Ganga and the Jamuna, with its magnificent, palace-rich cities,
where weapons-radiant Krieger, proud Brahmins, wealthy citizens and industrious Çudras the streets
busy, with his Rice fields and lots of burly giant fig tree, its palm groves and its jungles,
its elephants and tigers and snow peaks of the weithinleuchtenden
Himavat.

This venue, the manifold with its tropical splendor was so often surrounded their life together,
as if there were no other world, now vanished completely, to a öderen and harsher country to
make room.

Here, of course, the summer sun burns as hot as the Ganga, dries out the water lines and scorched
the grass. But in winter the frost deprived the forests of their foliage, and frost covered the
fields. No cities raise their towers, but far-flung villages with big hurdles is in the midst
of their pasture-rich pastures, and the protecting hill next to it
by walls and rough walls in a small hard turns.

A warlike pastoral people is settled. The woods are full of wolves, and miles away heard the
roar of the trembling Wanderer Lions, "the terrible, rambling, mountain house in end game" - as
he calls him, for He is a singer.

After a long hike, he approaches a village, as an unknown, but a welcome
guest; for he is everywhere. Over his shoulder is his only visible
belongings, a small Loud, but in his head he wears all the precious
heritage of his fathers: an old, secret hymns Agni and Indra, Varuna
and Mitra in, even to unknown gods of war and drinking songs for men,
love songs for the girls; blessing spells for the milk donors. And
he has strength and knowledge to augment this stock from its own resources.
Where would probably not welcome such a guest?

It is the time when
the cattle are driven home. strides at the head of a herd with the
highest grace in all movements of the youthful body, a tall girl;
her side is her favorite cow, that bell will follow the others, and
licks and her hand. It offers you good evening, she returns to the
friendly greeting. Smiling, they see itself - and it's the same look
that in the pleasure parks of Kosambi between the ball player on the
stage and the foreign spectators flew back and forth.

* * * * *

But
also the land of the five streams, after she repeatedly houses, has
disappeared, as before the Gangatal - other areas are opening up,
other people and customs surrounding it - everything rougher, wilder
and poorer.

The prairie, over which the train is dragging on - riders,
cars and pedestrians in an endless series - is white with snow. The
air is full of swirling flakes. Black Mountains look like a shadow
start. From the tent roof of a heavy ox-cart to prevent a girl out
so vividly that the sheep's clothing slides to the side, and the golden
hair fullness of her cheeks, neck and chest niederwallt. Fear lights
from their eyes as they peered out where to turn all eyes to all fingers
hinz own: - like a dark cloud thrown up by the wind roars an equestrian
Horde approach. But trust she smiles when her eyes met the boy, the
next the car rides on a black bull, - and it is again the same view,
albeit for blue eyes. This look inflamed the heart of the blond young
man who swings his battleaxe and shouting against the storm with other
warriors to the enemy - it flares up, warming up even when it is pierced
by a cold iron Skythenpfeiles. 

* * * * *

But even bigger changes
they experienced, further hikes they took from Fragrance of the coral
tree passed.

They found themselves as deer and Hinde in the vast
forest. Without a word, was now their love, but not sightless. And
again it was the same view: - deep in the deepest darkness of their
large, foreboding eyes shone even though by how cloudy Nebelbläue
round, the same Sparks, who had so radiant found human eye to eye
on the people way.

They knots, together, together they waded in the
clear, cool brook, body to body they were resting in the tall, soft
grass. Together, their joys, and together they trembled before Fear
when suddenly a road was alive and the mouth of the Pythons are gaped,
or when in the dead of night an almost inaudible, slow movement of
their ears stimulate was collected, while their dilated nostrils smelled
the pungent odor of a predator, and then it fled in huge sets, just
as it in the bushes rustled and crackled and the roar of anger too
short by the Tigers have come around now becoming alive Forest rolled.

Many
years had already tasted it so together all the joys and terrors of
the forest, as they gnawed one day in a shady places the young succulent
shoots. Then came the fact that the Hinde became entangled in the
snare of a hunter. Worked in vain the Males with teeth and claws to
the gang, which burst to the girlfriend handcuffed, and did not depend
on until the hunter approached. The latter was preëminently
vulgar in its appeal, the Critical had lost its former prestige, and the other two had never
risen above a level of mediocrity. There was more than a lurking suspicion that these periodicals
were, to a certain extent, booksellers' organs, quite unreliable on account of the partial
and biassed criticisms which they offered the dissatisfied public. The time was evidently ripe
for a new departure in literary reviews--for the establishment of a trustworthy critical journal,
conducted by capable editors and printing readable notices of important books. People were
quite willing to have an unfortunate author assailed and flayed for their entertainment; but
they did not care to be deceived by laudatory criticisms that were inspired by the publisher's
name instead of the intrinsic merits of the work itself.

Such was the state of affairs when Francis Jeffrey, Henry Brougham and Sydney Smith launched
the Edinburgh Review in 1802, choosing a name that had been borne in 1755-56 by a short-lived
semi-annual review. There were several significant facts associated with the new enterprise.
It was the first important literary periodical to be published beyond the metropolis. It was
the first review to appear quarterly--an interval that most contemporary journalists would
have condemned as too long for a successful review. Moreover, it was conducted upon an entirely
different principle than any previous review; by restricting its attention to the most important
works of each quarter, it gave extensive critiques of only a few books in each number and thus
avoided the multitude of perfunctory notices that had made previous reviews so dreary and unreadable.

The idea of founding the Edinburgh Review was apparently suggested by Sydney Smith in March,
1802. Jeffrey and Francis Horner were his immediate associates; but during the period of preparation
Henry Brougham, Dr. Thomas Brown, Dr. John Thomson and others became interested. After some
delay, the first number appeared on October 10, 1802, containing among its twenty-nine articles
three by Brougham, five by Horner, six by Jeffrey and nine by Smith. Although there was a slight
feeling of disappointment over the mild political tone of the new review, its success was immediate.
The edition of 750 copies was speedily disposed of, and within a month a second edition of
equal size was printed. There was no regular editor at first, although the publication of the
first three numbers was practically superintended by Smith. Afterwards Jeffrey became editor
at a salary of £300. He had previously written some articles (including a critique of Southey's
Thalaba) for the Monthly Review and was pessimistic enough to anticipate an early failure for
the new venture. However, at the time he assumed control (July, 1803) the circulation was 2500,
and within five years it reached 8,000 or 9,000 copies. Jeffrey's articles were recognized
and much admired; but the success of the Edinburgh was due to its independent tone and general
excellence rather than to the individual contributions of its editor. Its prosperity enabled
the publishers to offer the contributors attractive remuneration for their articles, thus assuring
the coöperation of specialists and of the most capable men of letters of the day. At the outset,
ten guineas per sheet were paid; later sixteen became the minimum, and the average ranged from
twenty to twenty-five guineas. When we recall that the Critical Review paid two, and the Monthly
Review sometimes four guineas per sheet, we can readily understand the distinctly higher standard
of the Edinburgh Review.

Horner left Scotland for London in 1803 to embark upon a political career. During the next
six years occasional articles from his pen--less than a score in all--appeared in the review.
Smith and Brougham likewise left Edinburgh in 1803 and 1805 respectively; but they ably supported
Jeffrey by sending numerous contributions for many years. During the first quarter-century
of the review's existence, this trio, with the coöperation of Sir James Mackintosh and a few
others, constituted the mainstay of its success. Jeffrey's remarkable critical faculty was
displayed to best advantage in the wide range of articles (two hundred in number) which he
wrote during his editorship. It is true that his otherwise sound judgment was unable to grasp
the significance of the new poetic movement of his day, and that his best remembered efforts
are the diatribes against the Lake Poets. Hence, in the eyes of the modern literary dilettante,
he figures as a misguided, domineering Zoilus whose mission in life was to heap ridicule upon
the poetical efforts of Wordsworth, Coleridge and the lesser disciples of romanticism.

There are in the early volumes of the Edinburgh no more conspicuous qualities than that air
of vivacity and graceful wit, so thoroughly characteristic of Sydney Smith. The reader who
turns to those early numbers may be disappointed in the literary quality of the average article,
for he will instinctively and unfairly make comparison with more recent standards, instead
of considering the immeasurably inferior conditions that had previously prevailed; but we may
safely assert that the majority of Smith's articles can be read with interest to-day. He was
sufficiently sedate and serious when occasion demanded; yet at all times he delighted in the
display of his native and sparkling humor. Although most of his important articles have been
collected, far too much of his work lies buried in that securest of literary sepulchres--the
back numbers of a critical review.

Henry Brougham at first wrote the scientific articles for the Edinburgh. Soon his ability to
deal with a wide range of subjects was recognized and he proved the most versatile of the early
reviewers. In the first twenty numbers are eighty articles from his pen. A story that does
not admit of verification attributes to Brougham a whole number of the Edinburgh, including
an article on lithotomy and another on Chinese music. Later he became especially distinguished
for his political articles, and remained a contributor long after Jeffrey and Smith had withdrawn.
A comparatively small portion of his Edinburgh articles was reprinted (1856) in three volumes.

Although the young men who guided the early fortunes of the review were Whigs, the Edinburgh
was not (as is generally believed) founded as a Whig organ. In fact, the political complexion
of their articles was so subdued that even stalwart Tories like Walter Scott did not refrain
from contributing to its pages. Scott's Marmion was somewhat sharply reviewed by Jeffrey in
April, 1808, and in the following October appeared the article by Jeffrey and Brougham upon
Don Pedro Cevallos' French Usurpation of Spain. The pronounced Whiggism of that critique led
to an open rupture with the Tory contributors. Scott, who was no longer on the best terms with
Constable, the publisher of the Edinburgh, declared that henceforth he could neither receive
nor read the review. He proposed to John Murray--then of Fleet Street--the founding of a Tory
quarterly in London as a rival to the northern review that had thus far enjoyed undisputed
possession of the field, because it afforded "the only valuable literary criticism which can
be met with." Murray, who had already entertained the idea of establishing such a review, naturally
welcomed the prospect of so powerful an ally. The flowers begin to fall off already. Soon enough for your bathroom there. "

"But this must not yellow Vasitthi certainly do in their bath water," said my more mischievous
Friend, "if you will bloom like flowers body under her love, but only those Scarlet, like those
who Kamanita friend just hid in his robe. For in the golden Book of Love says: 'Saffron Yellow
tendency called her when she falls within the eye, but again lost, but it is called scarlet,
they did not lose again is excessive and is in the eye '"

He laughed and his Medini on their fun, confidential manner.

Vasitthi answered seriously, albeit with her sweet smile, she set my hand and gently put it:

"You're
wrong, dear Somadatta, my love has no color flowers. For I have heard it said the color of
the truest love is not red but black - black as the neck Qivas was as the god swallowed the poison
that would have otherwise destroyed the essence.

And it must also be: tolerate the poison of life must be true love
can, and willingly it must be the Bitter cost in order to save the
beloved.

And certainly it is rather like their color To choose a bright from
all pleasures.

"

So my beloved Vasitthi said that night in the care-free trees.

VII IN THE GORGE

Deeply moved by this vivid memory of the pilgrims was silent a little while. Then sighed He stressed
his hand across his forehead and continued his narrative.

Short, brother, I went all this time around like in a haze of bliss and my feet seemed hardly
to touch the earth. Once I had to laugh out loud, because I heard that there are people who call this
world a vale of tears and their thoughts and wishes sent out to be not born again among men. "What
a foregone gates Somadatta "I cried," as if there might be a more perfect place of bliss as the
Terrace of Sorrowless. "

But beneath the terrace was the gorge.

In this we had just climbed down when I called out those foolish words, and as I should be shown
that the highest bliss earth has its bitterness, we were incurred in the same moment by several
armed men. How many were there, could we distinguish in the deep darkness does not. Fortunately
we were able to back cover by the rock wall, and threatened with the soothing consciousness,
only from the front to be we began, for our lives and our love to
fight.

We gritted his teeth and were silent as night, as still as possible while we parried and thrust,
and our But opponents howled like the devil in order to cheer each other, and we supposed eight
distinguish up to ten votes. If they now vorfanden a few more sword as they might have expected,
but our position was serious enough. Soon, however, two were prevented by them on earth, and
their bodies the others who were afraid of them and stumble so give our sword-points to be significant
at the fights. You want to have retreated a few steps, because we no longer felt their hot
Breath in the face.

Somadatta I whispered a few words, and we moved several steps to the
side, in the Hope that the attackers are hoping, at the old place,
make a sudden thrust and thereby come to us instead of to the cliff
and break their sword-points in this would, while ours belonging to
them should go between the ribs.

Although we now observed the utmost caution, however, must surely make a little noise their suspicions
have awakened. Because of the expected attack was not blind, but I suddenly saw a narrow beam
of light hit the wall and was well aware that this beam from a Wick lamp came from, the apparently
put in a box cautiously opened, next to which is a warty nose and squinting eyes showed.

Since the bamboo pole, with which we had climbed the terrace, fortunately was still in my left
hand, I came bravely up - a loud cry, the disappearance of the beam and the clinking of fallen
to the ground lightbulb testified how well I hit had, and we used this moment now, in the
direction in which we had come to run hastily away.

We knew that here the gap was more narrow and rather steeply rising, and that could last climb
without too much trouble up. But was it is a very lucky that our attackers in the pursuit of darkness
tasks very soon because last ascent threatened my strength left me,
and I felt that I was bleeding heavily from several wounds, including
my friend was wounded, though lighter.

At the top, we cut up my clothes and joined a makeshift our wounds, and so I arrived at last, on
Somadatta arm resting, happy home, where I more Had to spend weeks on the bed of pain.

I lay there, plagued by a triple suffering. Because the wounds and the fever burned me the body,
and very longing for the beloved ate my soul - but soon came yet the concern for her precious
life added. For the delicate, flower-like creature had the message of the deadly danger hovered
in which I had and maybe still hovered not can endure, and was stricken by a serious illness.
Your faithful foster-sister Medini, however, went every day from a sick bed to another, and so
we lack at least not in constant communication and thoughtful services. Flowers walked back and forth
between us and ago, and since we both were initiated into the science of the language of flowers,
we trusted us through this lovely messengers even to many.

Later, when our forces are withdrawn, found also some graceful verse the way from hand to hand, and
so our condition would have soon bearable, if not with the recovery, which we were approaching
the same step - as it connected to true, as that one the other would run ahead of it - and
the future approached us and who would have filled us with serious concerns.

It had remained hidden from us that is not the nature of those seemingly mysterious attack had
been.

None other than the son of the minister - Satagira was his hated name -, with I had struggled
on that unforgettable afternoon in the park to Vasitthis Ball: No other than it was he who had
incited the hired killer for me. had no doubt He noted that after the departure of the embassy
still remained in the city, and thus be awakened suspicion very soon had my night out on the
terrace spotted.

Ah, those terrace Sorrowless was now our love like a sunken island. Well I would have joyfully
again and again and again struck my life in the hill to the lovely
lady to embrace there.

But even if Vasitthi would have had the heart to me every night deadly Risk of exposing, so
we had but such a temptation spared. The evil had Satagira have informed the parents of my beloved
of our secret meetings, because it soon became apparent that Vasitthi was carefully monitored
and suspicious, and that the stay on the patio after the sun had forbidden her - allegedly because
of their more vulnerable Health.

So then our love was homeless! Which is so much in secret could feel at home, just be there at
home where it was all over the world - in that public garden where I first their divine figure
and saw she had a couple of times already searched in vain, we met as if by accident. But what
a meeting it was! How fleeting is stolen minutes as timid and thrifty the hasty words, such forced
movements that are curious or perhaps even prying eyes felt exposed! Vasitthi implored me, the city,
where I near her mortal danger threatening to leave immediately. She complained bitterly to himself
that they On that memorable first night on the terrace with their own sense to me to stay persuaded
by me and almost pushed back in the jaws of death have, perhaps At this moment new assassins
were hired against me. If I do not speedy departure would remove this danger, I made it the murderer
of their loved ones!

Suppressed Sobs choked her voice, and I had to stand next to it, close it without her in my arms
and the tears, the heavy as storm drops rolled down her pale cheeks, kiss away, to. I could
not bear such a farewell, and I told her I could not go away, without having to have a meeting
with her how to achieve it now was.

Vasitthis desperate pleading look, as we at this very moment by the
approach of several People were forced to separate us, could not make
up my mind to waver.

I relied on the ingenuity of my beloved, now, through longing for
me and inspired by fear for my life and the cunning and savvy in matters
of love Foster sister Medini advice would certainly find a way out.

In this I did not deceive me; because that same night Somadatta could tell me their very promising
plan.

VIII THE PARADISE BUD

Just outside the eastern wall is a beautiful Kosambis Sinsapawald is actually a sacred grove.
In a clearing, nor is the sanctuary, though in a very dilapidated State. Took place long ago in
this ancient temple is no more sacrifices, because the Krishna, which it is consecrated, a new,
far larger and more magnificent temple in the city itself was purchased. Lived in the ruins
but apart from a pair of owls a saint, that of the Reputation enjoyed standing with spirits
the name, by enabling them an insight into the future was - an insight into the soul of the
good performers offering people do not denied.

Such a pilgrimage because even in large numbers towards her, and that mainly to Sunset love young
people of both sexes, and there was malicious tongues; who claimed that the old woman was more
of a go-between, for a saint to call. However this may be, this holiness was just what we needed,
and her temple was chosen as the site of our meeting.

The next day I went out with my ox cart, and although the hour, because people went to the bazaar
or in the court hall.

But I deliberately chose the busiest Roads, so that my departure my enemies Satagira certainly
could not remain a secret. But only hours after the trip I made in a large village stop and let
my caravan there receive their night quarters, to no small joy of my people. I myself ascended
a fresh horse and rode around sunset, in the rough coat of one of my servants wrapped, the same
route back to Kosambi.

It was completely turned night until I reached the Sinsapawald. When I gently my mount steers
between the tribes, I was like welcome to the wonderful smells of the Night Lotus flowers on
the old Krishna ponds received. Soon drew the crumbling of Teeming idols temple roof forms its
jagged and confused against the star-sparkling Sky. I was at the goal. No sooner had I am swinging
from the saddle, so too were my Friends already at my side.

With a cry of delight and I rushed Vasitthi each other's arms, half-unconscious joy of reunion,
and I only know of caresses, stammering words of affection and affirmation of our love and
loyalty, until I emporschrak short by the unexpected feel of a soft wing fanning, which I grazed
the cheek, immediately after which the cry of an owl and the ugly
sound of a cracked Bronze bell awakened me completely out of the Liebesverzückung.

Medini

had pulled on the cord of the old prayer bell and by the owl from the niche, in which they lived,
frightened. This did not so much the good girl to the Holy of call, but rather because they
saw that they already came out to the temple, apparently annoyed, because she had heard voices in
the holy district, without that would have been rung or angepocht.

Medini said the old man, the great reputation for holiness and their amazing skills have it and this young
man - although she pointed to Somadatta - moved to seek them, to obtain information about what was
hidden from further over time.

 The Saints got checking the view of the sky and said, as the Pleiades
 just an extremely favorable position to Polaris occupy, they probably
hope that the spirits do not fail their help would, after which she
invited Somadatta and Medini, in the house of Krishna, the sixteen
thousand one hundred times Groom [1] to enter, the grant of a loving
couple like his heart's desire.

Vasitthi and I remained, as alleged servants back outside.

[1] is located at these strange names in the legend knüpfende Chapter "Buddha and Krishna tells
- SS 242 et seq

As we now zuschwuren us to separate that only the death of us all hinraffende should be able, as
We of my imminent return once the rainy season was over, said and the means and Discussed
ways to bring their very rich parents, then, that in our connection acquiescence, and as of innumerable
kisses, tears and hugs were interrupted: I would not even able to tell you exactly, because
it's in my memory just like the memory of a confused dream remained.

Still less can I do if you have not experienced the like, give you an idea of ​​how each Embrace
of blissful delight and heart-wrenching despair entwined, for each
one reminded because the latter would soon follow for now, and he
who was responsible for ensuring that this will not the last ever was?

All too soon came Somadatta Medini and back out of the temple. The Saint had now reveal to
us the future, but Vasitthi horrified if this idea.

"How could I bear it because when a ominous future is unveiled?" called them out.

"Why should that be especially ominous?" said the benevolent old man,
probably because of their Holiness friendly life experiences might
have made.

"Even the servant blossoms happiness," she added with promise.

But Vasitthi could be attract by their words, they clung to my neck, sobbing.

"Oh, my only love," she cried, "it is as if the future with relentless Three face looked. Oh,
I feel it - I'll never see more!

Although these words ran through me in an icy rain, I tried it but this gratuitous dissuade fear,
but just because it was groundless, my eloquent words did little or nothing. The tears were rolling
inexorably over cheeks Vasitthis; supernatural with a view Love she
took my hand and pressed it to her breast.

"But if we do not see here, should we want to remain faithful to us, and if this is short and painful
life on earth is over, we do find ourselves in Paradise and there
always united to heavenly bliss enjoy .... O, Kamanita!

Promise me this - how much stronger than all the stand up straight
comforting words!

Because they are so against it the inevitable, already oncoming current fate as helpless as against
the reeds the flood. But powerful, giving birth to new life, is the holy, strong resolution.
"

"If the only objective is, beloved Vasitthi - how should you will not find anywhere?" I said,
"but we hope that it will happen in this world!"

"Here everything is uncertain, and the very moment when we speak, not ours - but not so in
paradise. "

"Oh, Vasitthi," I sighed, "there is a paradise - and where is it?"

"Where the sun goes down," she said with conviction, "is the paradise
of limitless Light, and all those who have the courage to despise
earthly things and thinking at that place to judge the happiness is
there before a pure birth from the womb of a lotus flower. The first
longing for that Paradise does there in the holy, crystal clear lake,
a bud produced, each pure thought, every good deed they can swell,
while all the evil in what Thought, word and deed is done, like a
worm in it and gnawed it near the wilting brings. "

Her eyes shone
like temple candles, as she spoke in a voice which, like the sweetest
music sounded.

Then she raised her hand and pointed up to where the
black tops of the Sinsapabäume the Milky Way are in gently radiant
alabaster sheen by dotted with sparkling stars, dark purple plane
of the sky stretched .--

"Look there, Kamanita," she cried - "the
heavenly Ganga! At first literature was granted meagre
space in newspapers of the Weekly Register and Examiner type. William Cobbett, profiting by
his previous experience with Porcupine's Gazette and the Porcupine, began his Weekly Political
Register in 1802 and continued its publication until his death in 1835. It was so thoroughly
political in character that it hardly merits recognition as a literary periodical. The Examiner,
begun in 1808 by John Hunt, enjoyed during the thirteen years of his brother Leigh's coöperation
a wide reputation for the excellence of its political and literary criticism. Under Albany
Fonblanque, John Forster and William Minto it continued with varying success until 1880.

The first truly literary weekly review was the Literary Gazette, established in 1817 by Henry
Colburn, of the New Monthly Magazine, under the joint editorship of Mr. H.E. Lloyd and Miss
Ross. After the first half-year of its existence, Colburn sold a third share to the Messrs.
Longman and another third to William Jerdan, who became sole editor and eventually (1842) sole
proprietor. The original price of a shilling was soon reduced to eight pence. Jerdan set the
prototype for later literary weeklies in his plan, which embraced "foreign and domestic correspondence,
critical analyses of new publications, varieties connected with polite literature, philosophical
researches, scientific inventions, sketches of society, biographical memoirs, essays on fine
arts, and miscellaneous articles on drama, music and literary intelligence." Thus Jerdan followed
his friend Canning's advice by avoiding "politics and polemics" and by aiming to present "a
clear and instructive picture of the moral and literary improvement of the times, and a complete
and authentic chronological literary record for general reference." He secured the services
of Crabbe, Barry Cornwall, Maginn, Campbell, Mrs. Hemans and others: with such an array of
contributors he was able to crush the several rival weeklies that soon entered the field.

Toward the end of its prosperous first decade, however, the misfortunes of the Literary Gazette
began. Colburn's publications had been roughly handled in its pages and he accordingly aided
James Silk Buckingham in founding the Athenæum. The first number appeared on January 2, 1828,
as an evident rival of the older weekly. For a time the new venture was on the verge of failure
and the proprietors actually offered to sell it to Jerdan. Within half a year Buckingham was
succeeded by John Sterling as editor. Frederic Denison Maurice's friends purchased the Literary
Chronicle and Weekly Review (begun 1819) and merged it with the Athenæum in July, 1828. For
a year Sterling and Maurice contributed some of the most brilliant critical articles that have
appeared in its pages. The working editor at that time was Henry Stebbing who had been associated
with the Athenæum since its inception and who was the only survivor[C] of the original staff
when the semi-centennial number was published on January 5, 1878.

Even the high standards set by Maurice and Sterling failed to win public favor. The crisis
came about the middle of 1830 when Charles Wentworth Dilke became "supreme editor," enlisted
Lamb, George Darley, Barry Cornwall and others on his staff, and reduced the price of the Athenæum
from eightpence to fourpence. The apparent folly of reducing the price and increasing the expenses
did not lead to the generally prophesied collapse; this first experiment in modern methods
resulted in the rapid growth of the Athenæum's circulation, to the serious detriment of the
Literary Gazette. Jerdan tried to stem the tide by publishing lampoons on the dullness of Dilke's
paper; but when the Athenæum was enlarged in 1835 from sixteen to twenty-four pages Dilke's
triumph was evident. The Literary Gazette was compelled to reduce its price to fourpence in
its effort to regain the lost subscriptions. Dilke labored earnestly to improve his paper and
when, in 1846, he felt that it was established on a firm basis, he made Thomas Kibble Hervey
editor and devoted his own time to furthering his journalistic enterprises. However, he continued
to contribute to the weekly; his valuable articles on Junius and Pope together with several
others were afterwards reprinted as Papers of a Critic.

Jerdan withdrew from the Literary Gazette in 1850. The hopeless struggle with the Athenæum,
involving a third reduction in price to threepence, lasted until 1862, when the Gazette was
incorporated with the Parthenon and came to an end during the following year. Hervey edited
the Athenæum until 1853 when ill-health necessitated his resignation. The later editors include
William Hepworth Dixon, Norman MacColl and at present Mr. Vernon Rendall. After the withdrawal
of Dixon in 1869 a reformation in the staff and management of the Athenæum took place.

     "Some old writers were parted with, and a great many fresh
     contributors were found. While special departments, such as
     science, art, music and the drama, were of necessity entrusted to
     regular hands, indeed, the reviewing of books, now more than ever
     the principal business of 'The Athenæum,' was distributed over a
     very large staff, the plan being to assign each work to a writer
     familiar with its subject and competent to deal with it
     intelligently, but rigidly to exclude personal favouritism or
     prejudice, and to secure as much impartiality as possible. The rule
     of anonymity has been more carefully observed in 'The Athenæum'
     than in most other papers. Its authority as a literary censor is
     not lessened, however, and is in some respects increased, by the
     fact that the paper itself, and not any particular critic of great
     or small account, is responsible for the verdicts passed in its
     columns." (Fox Bourne.)

Half a year after the inception of the Athenæum, the first number of the Spectator was issued
(July 6, 1828) by Robert Stephen Rintoul, an experienced journalist who had launched the ill-fated
semi-political Atlas two years before and therefore decided to confine his new venture to literary
and social topics. The political excitement of the time soon aroused Rintoul's interest, and
he undertook the advocacy of the Reform Bill with all possible ardor. From him emanated the
famous battle-cry: "The Bill, the whole Bill, and nothing but the Bill." He conducted the Spectator
with great skill until 1858, when he sold it two months before his death. Although he wrote
little for its pages, Rintoul made the Spectator a power in furthering all reforms. The literary
standard, while somewhat obscured for a time by its politics, was high. In 1861 the Spectator
passed into the hands of Mr. Meredith Townsend who sold a half share to the late Richard Holt
Hutton with the understanding that they should act as political and literary editors respectively.
During the four years of the American Civil War, the Spectator espoused the cause of the North
and was consequently unpopular; but the outcome turned the sentiment in England and likewise
the fortunes of the Spectator. Hutton's contributions included his most memorable utterances
upon theological and literary subjects. In the midst of religious controversy he was able to
discuss delicate questions without giving offense, to enlist all parties by refraining from
expressed allegiance to one. The Spectator of Hutton's day was, in Mrs. Oliphant's opinion,
"specially distinguished by the thoughtful tone of its writing, the almost Quixotic fairness
of its judgments, and the profoundly religious spirit which pervades its more serious articles."
Hutton retired shortly before his death in 1897. The present editor is Mr. J. St. Loe Strachey.

The Saturday Review was established in November, 1855, by A.J. Beresford Hope. Its first editor
was John Douglass Cook, who had indexed the early volumes of the Quarterly for Murray and had
gained his journalistic experience with the Times and the Morning Chronicle. Though possessed
of no great personal ability, Cook had the useful editorial faculty of recognizing talent,
and consequently gathered about himself the most promising writers of the younger generation,
including, among others, Robert Talbot Cecil, the late Lord Salisbury. The Saturday Review
at once became the most influential and most energetic of the weekly papers. Its politics,
independent at first, later assumed a pronounced Conservative complexion. Cook remained editor
until his death (1868) when he was succeeded by his assistant, Philip Harwood. Since the latter's
retirement in 1883 the more recent editors include Mr. Walter H. Pollock, Mr. Frank Harris
and the present incumbent, Mr. Harold Hodge. Professor Saintsbury wrote of the Saturday Review:

     "Its staff was, as a rule, recruited from the two Universities
     (though there was no kind of exclusion for the unmatriculated; as a
     matter of fact, neither of its first two editors was a son either
     of Oxford or Cambridge), and it always insisted on the necessity of
     classical culture.... It observed, for perhaps a longer time than
     any other paper, the salutary principles of anonymity (real as well
     as ostensible) in regard to the authorship of particular articles;
     and those who knew were constantly amused at the public mistakes on
     this subject."

Such "salutary principles of anonymity" were not observed by the Academy, a Monthly Record
of Literature, Learning, Science and Art, which began to appear in October, 1869, and was published
for a short time by John Murray. Its founder, Dr. Charles E. Appleton, edited the Academy until
his death in 1879. All the leading articles bore the authors' signatures, and, following the
example of the more ambitious monthlies, Dr. Appleton secured the best known writers as contributors.
The first number opened with an interesting unpublished letter of Lord Byron's; its literary
articles were by Matthew Arnold, Gustave Masson and Mr. Sidney Colvin, theology was represented
by the Rev. T.K. Cheyne and J.B. Lightfoot (later Bishop of Durham), science by Thomas Huxley
and Sir John Lubbock (now Lord Avebury), and classical learning by Mark Pattison and John Conington.
This remarkable array of names did not diminish in subsequent numbers. Besides those mentioned
Mr. W.M. Rossetti, Max Müller, G. Maspero, J.A. Symonds, F.T. Palgrave and others contributed
to the first volume. Later such names as William Morris, John Tyndall, Dante Gabriel Rossetti,
Walter Pater and Robert Louis Stevenson appeared in its pages.

In spite of its brilliant program, the size of the Academy, even at its price of sixpence,
was too slight to rank as a monthly. After four years' experience, first as a monthly, then
as a fortnightly, it became and has remained a weekly. The editorial succession since the death
of Dr. Appleton has been C.E. Doble (1879-81); Mr. James Sutherland Cotton (1881-96); Mr. C.
Lewis Hind (1896-1903); and Mr. W. Teignmouth Shore. The issue of November 7, 1896, announced
Mr. Cotton's retirement and the inauguration of a new policy, which, in addition to technical
improvements, promised the issue of occasional supplements of a purely academic and educational
character, and the beginning of the series of Academy Portraits of men of letters. At the same
time the publication of signed articles was abolished and the Academy remained anonymous until
the recent editorial change. A new departure in October, 1898, made the Academy an illustrated
paper--the most attractive though not the most authoritative of the weeklies. It has departed
widely from the set traditions of Dr. Appleton, but most readers will agree that the departure
has been justified by the needs of the hour. There is small satisfaction in reading a one-page
review from the pen of an Arnold or a Pater; we feel that such authorities should express themselves
at length in the pages of the literary monthlies; that the reader of the weekly should be content
with the anonymous (and less expensive) review written by the staff-critic. Whatever the personal
bias, it is at least certain that under present conditions the Academy appeals more generally
to the popular taste. Its recent absorption of a younger periodical is indicated in the compounding
of its title into the Academy and Literature--a change that does not commend itself on abstract
grounds of literary fitness and tradition.

A consideration of periodicals of the Tatler, Spectator and Rambler class evidently lies beyond
our present purpose; though Addison's papers on Paradise Lost and similar articles show an
occasional critical intent. The magazines, however, have in various instances shown such an
extensive interest in matters literary that a brief account of their development will not be
amiss. The primary distinction between the review and the magazine is well understood; the
former criticizes, the latter entertains. Hence fiction, poetry and essays are better adapted
than book-reviews to the needs of the literary magazine. Shone round about the fields evergreen
and green, as if the earth were an emerald, which would be illuminated from within. But even
a dream of purple haze transformer the distance, while an almost supernatural Crimson tide
- you did not know whether light that shadow - like sinking down from everywhere, rising up and pouring
in the whole space durchwallte, the resolution and collecting lot, Near fortschwemmend heranflutend
and distant, but all put in swaying and flickering trembling ....

up frightened by the steps of the solitary wanderer, hooked a flying his dog leather wings from
the branch of a black Salabaumes going on and ran chirping cry through
the dusk to the orchards of the village-like suburb to visit.

It was evening when the sublime this suburb Rajagahas reached.

II THE MEETING

The first house, the wall of blue shone between the garden trees, thought audition of the sublime.
As it is now but wanted to approach the door, he was a network aware that was hung on a tree branch.
And the Master walked Fürbaß, the house of the fowler disdaining.

At the outer edge of the village houses were sparsely scattered, and there had recently a fire
raged, and it took a while for it to resume a human Apartment was.

This was the homestead of a wealthy Brahmin. The Blessed One was to Tor entered the room, he
heard the two women inside shrieked the Brahmins, with loud screaming voices quarreled and
pelted each other with crude insults. And the Master turned round, came back out of the doorways
and walked Fürbaß.

The pleasure garden of the rich Brahmin extended widely along the road. The Blessed already began
to feel fatigue, and his right foot, hurt by a sharp stone, hurt him in the further progression.
He finally approached the nearest residential home, which already
visible from a distance was, for brighter light shining streaming
across the path through the grid the shutters and the open door. But
who would be a blind man, he would have but noticed the house, for
mischievous smile, cup sound, stomping of dancing feet and lovely
cheerful tones of the seven-Vina broke out into the open, leaning
against the door post but was a beautiful girl draped in rich silk
and jasmine threads. Its first editors were Dr. Watkins and Alaric A. Watts. At a later time
Campbell, Bulwer, Theodore Hook and Harrison Ainsworth successively assumed charge. Under such
capable direction the magazine naturally won a prominent place among the periodicals of the
day. During its later years the New Monthly was obscured by more ambitious ventures and came
to an inglorious end in 1875--thirty-two years after the suspension of Phillips' Monthly Magazine.

A most significant event in the history of the magazine was the founding of the Edinburgh Monthly
Magazine in April, 1817, by William Blackwood. The new magazine was projected to counteract
the influence of the Edinburgh Review, but under its first editors, James Cleghorn and Thomas
Pringle, it failed to win favor. After six numbers were issued, a final disagreement between
Blackwood and the editors resulted in the withdrawal of the latter. The name of the monthly
was changed to Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine--popularly Blackwood's or "Maga"--and henceforth
until his death Blackwood was his own editor. John Wilson (Christopher North) and John Gibson
Lockhart, the most important of the early contributors to Blackwood's, published in that famous
seventh number the clever Chaldee Manuscript--an audacious satire upon the original editors,
the rival publisher Constable, the Edinburgh Review and various literary personages under a
thinly veiled allegory in apocalyptic style. It at once attracted wide attention (including
a costly action for libel within a fortnight) and was suppressed in the second impression of
the number. The same number of Blackwood's set the precedent for the subsequent critical vituperation
that made the magazine notorious. 

For an excited, passionate voice continued Angulimala:

"I see great lady! That thy noble soul thirsts for revenge, and you will be soon. Why I came here
yes. Many weeks I have here in front of Kosambi Satagira lurked. Finally I have now brought
in from a safe source of experience that he in this Days, the city is left to to go to the eastern
provinces, where an inter- two villages is to settle pending litigation. Before I knew it was my original
Plan to force him to make a sortie against me to get me back to capture; This makes his journey
to me but still comfortable. Of course I had my first result Intentionally made no secret
of my presence, but my actions speak for me , And let the rumor of my re-appearance has long
been widespread. Although most believe that any swindler is risen and posing for Angulimala,
it has yet the dread already so widely, that only large and well-armed trains in the forested
eastern area, where I dwell, to venture. You seem sure nothing to have heard, because you do
as a woman betrayed by her happiness alone with your Grief verkehrst. "

"I've probably heard of a brazen gang of robbers," I said, "but your
name or not name one, so I believed to see your spirit.

"

"Satagira but one call me," continued the robber, "leave it up, and there he has good reason
to believe that it is the right Angulimala and even better reason this fear, it can be assumed
that he would not only under a strong guard, but also take other precautions and be calculated
to deceive many tricks will serve. However, although the bonds on which I command, not very large,
should neither the one nor the other to help him, if I only know for sure what hour He moves
out and the direction it takes. And this is what I hope to learn is through you. "

If I listened until now even as it struck dumb and a spell in his statement had, without considering
how much I missed me already because I was standing but with this Affront to angry and asked
him what to believe him good qualifying, that I deeply enough down would be to take a thief and
a robber to the allies.

"With an ally," Angulimala replied calmly, "is the main thing is that it reliably is, and you feel
well that you can depend on the matter entirely on me. Also need I know your help, because
only through them that I can do what I want, for sure. Well I have an otherwise good source for news,
by which I just also on the impending Travel Satagira know, but if it prudent spread a false
rumor, so they also can be clouded. But you need my, as a proud and noble soul in a Case such
as yours only by the death of the traitor finds satisfaction. If you were a man; then you would
kill him myself, because you're a woman, you need to my arm. "

I wanted him to reject violent, but he gave me with such a worthy
gesture to understand He said not all that I said nothing against
my will.

"This, madam," he continued, "is revenge. But there is an other, more important things. to take
the future happiness, for me: For you, to atone for the past. rightly says yes it from me that
I was cruel, without compassion for people and animals. Yes, I have a thousand Deeds done,
each one must atone for their hundred or a thousand years in a Erzhölle, like the priests teach.
Although I was a learned and wise friend, Vajacravas, the the people even now revered as a
saint, and whose grave I also sacrificed plenty have: he has often shown us that such punishment
of hell will not give, and that the robber On the contrary, the brahmandurchdrungenste
nature and the crown of creation is.

But he has I never quite able to convince ....

Now be that as it may. Whether punishment is hell or not - it is certain that all my deeds only
one to me is heavy on the heart, namely, that I with my sly Wahrheitsakt have deceived you.
Even then I could not see you in the face, and the Memory of that hour I sit still as a thorn
in the flesh. Well, what I then fallowing against you, I want to make amends, as far as it is
still possible; I want to destroy the evil. You have been my fault from the believed dead Kamanita
and connected to these false Satagira. This bondage I will remove you now so that you are free again
to join up with her lover, and I myself want to Ujjeni go and bring him safe and sound. Now
you do is yours, I'll do mine. For a beautiful woman, it is not difficult to elicit from the
husband of a mystery. Morning, when it is dark, I come here to me
to get the decision from you.

"

He bowed low, and before it possible for me in my confusion and dismay,
was a Produce word, he was so suddenly disappeared from the terrace,
as he had appeared.

XXXII. Satagira

All night I stayed on the terrace, a will-less prey to the unbridled, unknown to me Passions
that drove her play with my heart like a whirlwind with a sheet.

My Kamanita was still alive! He had heard in his distant home of my marriage - because otherwise
he would have come long ago. How unfaithful - or how pathetic weak I had to go to his his eyes!
And this is my humiliation Satagira alone was to blame. My hatred for him was lethal by the minute,
and I deeply felt the truth in Angulimala words, that I do if I were a man, certainly would have
killed Satagira.

Then there was the very people who view the Angulimala I had opened
so unexpectedly - when I was free, I could marry her lover.

This idea became my whole being in such a tumultuous uproar that I thought the blood would have
to blow my chest and temples.

Unable to maintain myself, I could not even manage to stagger to the bank, but fell down on the
marble tiles, and my senses went by.

The cool of the morning dew brought me to my miserable existence with his horrible questions back.

Was
it true that I wanted to connect me with a robber and a thousand times the murderer, to evacuate
the man from the path which had once led me to the wedding fire?

But I knew not even when continuing would prefer my husband! And how should the time of his Departure,
as well as the exact route he intended to take, find out if he is a secret it made?

"For a beautiful woman, it's not difficult to elicit from the husband of a secret" - these Words of
the robber still rang me in the ear and showed me all the baseness
of such a Action.

I never would be able to make up my mind to me with tenderness in his Confidence to creep, to betray
him then to his mortal enemies. But the very fact that I felt this so clearly, it was also
clear to me that it really only the treacherous hypocritical and fraudulent acquisition of the
mystery was that I detested from the ground up. Had I but already in possession of the secret was
- I would have known where I go and a board could find on the Everything
was written: - I would surely fatal have informed customer Angulimala.

As it was now clear to me, I trembled with fear as if I have been guilty of Satagira Death would
be. I thanked my fate, that there was no way for me, this to obtain customer, because if I had
perhaps can learn at what hour they would leave, yet could only Satagira
itself and most, know a confidant, which roads and paths they had
chosen.

I saw the rising sun gilding the towers and domes Kosambis, as I so
gorgeous Spectacle from the terrace of the concerns lots of so often
- but, alas! with such very different feelings - considered had when
I spent a blissful night there with you.

Unfortunate as never before, dull and miserable as if I were aged
in the night by decades, I went to the Palace back.

To get to my room, I had to go through a long gallery, after some
Rooms with barred windows were opened.

As I walked past one of them, heard I cast. The one - that of my husband - began to track:

"Well,
we do so tonight - set off - one hour after midnight."

I stopped involuntarily. The hour I knew then! But the way? The shame rose in my face, because I played
the eavesdropper at the door - "flee, flee!" called it in me - "there
is still time!"

But I remained rooted to the spot.

Satagira went on, however, do not. He liked my steps and stopping her at the door have noticed, for
this was thrown open suddenly. My husband stood in front of me.

"I heard your voice in passing," I said with a quick decision, "and
thought to ask if I should bring you some refreshments as you so early
is for the business.

Then again I feared to disturb you and wanted to go on. "

Satagira looked at me without suspicion, even at very friendly.

"I thank you," he said, "I need no refreshments, but you do not disturb. In fact, I just wanted
to send for you, and only feared that you have not got wert. You can please me just now be
of the greatest benefit. "

He invited me to come into the room, which I did with the greatest astonishment, great care curious,
What kind of service he desired of me, well, just at this moment a deadly attack against him filled
my mind.

A man in whom I recognized a cavalry leader and confidant Satagira,
sat on a low Seat He rose as I entered and bowed deeply.

Satagira let me find take place, waved the tab leader to sit down again, and turned to me.

"This
is my love Vasitthi to this: I must as soon as possible go on a journey to settle a dispute in
the eastern village districts. Now, since a few weeks in the forest areas east of Kosambi, and
quite close to the city, robber shown. It goes the silly rumor that their leader is none other
than Angulimala by the unheard-of audacity, has to say Angulimala was then escaped from prison, and
I had taken of his head to another, similar to his own, slipped through the gate. We can laugh
about such tales, of course. However, but this seems the famous robber Angulimala audacity to not
have much to give, and when he really spends on those to find by
the glorious name large following, he is certainly out on any a very
bright indeed accomplish.

Therefore, after all, a certain caution. "

On a small, precious stones, with tables laid out beside him was a silk cloth. He took it and
wiped his forehead. It is bad today, he said, despite the early hour pretty hot. I saw that
it was the fear of Angulimala to him the sweat from the Pore-operation.

But instead the fact that my sympathy had been awakened, I felt at
this Sight but only contempt for him.

I saw that he was no hero and asked me wonder, by what stroke of luck he would have to take Angulimala
caught Angulimala, the robber who struck me as the terrible Bhima in the Mahabharata, with
whom you make so, Kamanita my dear, you fought at the level Kurukschetra.

"Now I can," went away, however, my husband, "not good in those villages with a whole army
to arrive, I might not even like to have more than thirty riders on this trip take with me.
All the more, but use caution and even offered deceptive List. I did this now using my faithful
Panduka discussed, and he gave me a good proposal, I also tell you, that you're not in these days
in too much fear for me. "

I mumbled something that should mean a thank you for this consideration.

"Panduka," he continued, "is therefore quite obvious power to prepare as if I wanted in the morning
with a fairly sizable force of troops to the east make a train to catch the robbers. If these words
- which I doubt not - here in the city accomplices have they kept up to date, they are led
by the garden path.

Meanwhile I break with my thirty riders on an hour after midnight, by the South Gate, and moving
through the hills east in a wide arc. But I would also like to avoid
the main streets until I'm several miles away from Kosambi.

Now is yes but in this area, the summer house of thy father, and you know of a child there
on all roads and bridges - thus I can, I think, with your rate is much use here. "

I was immediately ready, and while I was all described in detail, I had me a Plate type and
drew an accurate map of the area that house, with crosses at the points which he had pinned
special. Above all, I recommended him a path, led through a ravine. This gradually narrowed
so much that on a short Route not two riders could ride side by side, but this way was so unknown,
that even if the robbers should suspect that he made such a detour,
to be sure no one it would look there.

In this ravine, but I had an innocent child with my brothers and Medini and the children of our
tenant's played.

Satagira noticed that my hand that recorded the
shaking table, and asked me, if I had a fever. I replied that it only
slightly tired after a sleepless night was. But he seized my hand
and was worried that she was cold and damp, and when I they wanted
to with the remark, which had nothing to say withdraw, he kept her
in his, as he warned me to be careful and protect me, and in his I
noticed his look and voice with unspeakable indignation, and even
with some of the horror admiring affection from the time when he campaigned
in vain for me. I hastened to me To say that I really did not feel
quite well, and I immediately wanted to go to bed.

Satagira followed
me but also in the gallery, and here, where we were alone, he began
to make excuse: he had, however, the mother of his son's long me now
Time neglected, but upon his return should be different, I would no
longer have needed to spend the night alone on the terrace. The Iliad and the Œdipus were written long before
Aristotle's Poetics, and it is not likely that either Homer or Sophocles would have been a
greater poet if he could have read the Stagirite's treatise. Yet the Poetics, as a summary
of the essential features of that art, served an important purpose in later ages and exerted
far-reaching influences. Criticism in all ages has necessarily been of less importance than
art itself--it guides and suggests, but cannot create. Literary history shows that true criticism
must be in conformity with the spirit of the age; it cannot oppose the trend of intelligent
opinion. It may praise, censure, advise, interpret--but it will always remain subservient to
the art that called it forth. There is no reason to believe that criticism can ever be established
in the English-speaking world upon a basis that will subject to an arbitrary and irrevocable
ruling the form and spirit of the artist's message to mankind.

[Footnote A: Reprinted in Professor Arber's The Term Catalogues (1668-1709). London, privately
printed, 1903.]

[Footnote B: See the centenary number of the Edinburgh Review (October, 1902). During the editor's
recent tenure of government office, the review was temporarily edited by Mr. E.S. Roscoe.]

[Footnote C: See his letter in Athenæum, January 19, 1878. See also "Our Seventieth Birthday,"
Athenæum, January 1, 1898.]

[Footnote D: Mr. Bertram Dobell in his Side-Lights on Charles Lamb (1903) directs attention
to some hitherto unknown articles of Lamb's in the London Magazine.]

[Footnote E: In July, 1902, the Quarterly Review published its first signed article--the widely-discussed
paper on Charles Dickens by Mr. Algernon Charles Swinburne. Since then several other noteworthy
articles have appeared over the authors' signatures.]

BIBLIOGRAPHY

British Museum. Catalogue of Printed Books. Periodicals. (Revised ed., 1900.)

Dictionary of National Biography.

Encyclopedia Britannica. Article on Periodicals, by H.R. Tedder.

Barrow, Sir John. Autobiography. London, 1847.

Bourne, H.R. Fox. English Newspapers. Chapters in the History of Journalism. 2 vols. 8vo. London,
1887.

Cockburn, Lord. Life of Lord Jeffrey. With a Selection from his Correspondence. 2 vols. 8vo.
London, 1852.

Copinger, W.A. On the Authorship of the first Hundred Numbers of the "Edinburgh Review." (Privately
Printed.) Manchester, 1895.

Cross, Maurice. Selections from the Edinburgh Review, etc. With a Preliminary Dissertation.
4 vols. 8vo. London, 1833.

Gates, Lewis E. Francis Jeffrey. In Three Studies in Literature. 12mo. New York, 1899.

Horner, Leonard. Memoirs and Correspondence of Francis Horner, M.P. Edited by his brother.
2 vols. 8vo. Boston, 1853.

Jennings, Louis J. The Correspondence and Diaries of John Wilson Croker. 2 vols. 8vo. New York,
1884.

Jerdan, William. Autobiography. With his Literary, Political, and Social Reminiscences and
Correspondence, etc. 4 vols. 12mo. London, 1852-53.

Laughton, John Knox. Memoirs of the Life and Correspondence of Henry Reeve, C.B., D.C.L. 2
vols. 8vo. London, 1898.

Napier, Macvey. Selections from the Correspondence of the late Macvey Napier, Esq. Edited by
his son. 8vo. London, 1879.

Oliphant, Mrs. M.O.W., and Porter, Mrs. Gerald. William Blackwood and his Sons, etc. 3 vols.
8vo. New York, 1897-98.

Paston, George. The "Monthly Review." In Side-Lights on the Georgian Period. 8vo. London, 1903.

Smiles, Samuel. A Publisher and his Friends. Memoir and Correspondence of the late John Murray,
etc. 2 vols. 8vo. London and New York, 1891.

Last Century Magazines. (By T.H.) Fraser's Magazine, XCIV (325-333).

Layton, W.E. Early Periodicals. In The Bibliographer, III (36-39).

Lee, William. Periodical Publications during the Twenty Years 1712 to 1732. Notes and Queries
(Third Series), IX (53-54, 72-75, 92-95). Cf. ibid., pp. 164, 268, and X, p. 134.

Niven, G.W. On some Eighteenth Century Periodicals. In The Bibliographer, II (38-40).

Parkes, Samuel. An Account of the Periodical Literary Journals which were Published in Great
Britain and Ireland, from the Year 1681 to the Commencement of the Monthly Review in the year
1749. In The Quarterly Journal of Science, Literature and the Arts (1822), XIII (36-58, 289-312).

Stephen, (Sir) Leslie. The First Edinburgh Reviewers. In Cornhill Magazine, XXXVIII (218-234).
Also in Living Age, CXXXVIII (643-653).

Waugh, Arthur. The English Reviewers. A Sketch of their History and Principles. In The Critic,
XL (26-37).

Allingham, William. Varieties in Prose. 3 vols. 12mo. London, 1893. Vol. III contains Some
Curiosities of Criticism, reprinted from Fraser's Magazine, LXXXVII (43-51).

Arnold, Matthew. Essays in Criticism. First Series. 12mo. London, 1865. Contains The Function
of Criticism at the Present Time.

Birrell, Augustine. Men, Women, and Books. 16mo. London, 1894. Contains Authors and Critics.

Collins, J. Churton. Ephemera Critica, or Plain Truths about Current Literature. 12mo. Westminster
and New York, 1901.

[Copleston, Edward.] Advice to a Young Reviewer, with a Specimen of the Art. 8vo. Oxford and
London, 1807. Reprinted in An English Garner, Critical Essays and Literary Fragments, ed. J.C.
Collins. New York, 1903.

Disraeli, I. Calamities and Quarrels of Authors. A New Edition, etc. 12mo. London, n.d. Contains
Undue Severity of Criticism.

Gayley, C.M., and Scott, F.N. An Introduction to the Methods and Materials of Literary Criticism,
etc. 12mo. Boston, 1899.

Jennings, Henry J. Curiosities of Criticism. 12mo. London, 1881. See Eclectic Magazine, XCVII
(420-423).

Johnson, Charles F. Elements of Literary Criticism. 12mo. New York, 1898.

Mabie, Hamilton W. Essays in Literary Interpretation. 12mo. New York, 1896. Contains The Significance
of Modern Criticism.

Matthews, William. The Great Conversers, and other Essays. 12mo. Chicago, 1874. Contains Curiosities
of Criticism.

Repplier, Agnes. Books and Men. 16mo. Boston, 1888. Contains Curiosities of Criticism.

Robertson, John M. Essays toward a Critical Method. Sm. 8vo. London, 1889.

Sears, Lorenzo. Principles and Methods of Literary Criticism. 12mo. New York and London, 1898.

Stevenson, E. Early Reviews of Great Writers (1786-1832): Selected and Edited with an Introduction.
12mo. London, n.d.

Trent, W.P. The Authority of Criticism and other Essays. 12mo. New York, 1899.

Winchester, C.T. Some Principles of Literary Criticism. 12mo. New York, 1899.

Worsfold, W. Basil. The Principles of Criticism. An Introduction to the Study of Literature.
New Edition. 8vo. New York, 1902.

Wylie, Laura Johnson. Studies in the Evolution of English Criticism. 16mo. Boston, 1894.

Allen, Grant. The Decay of Criticism. In Fortnightly Review, XXXVII (339-351).

Clarke, Helen A. The Value of Contemporary Judgment. In Poet-Lore, V (201-209).

Critical Errors. In Chamber's Journal, XLII (164-166).

Criticism Extraordinary. In All the Year Round, XXXIII (558-563).

G.L.A. Some Curiosities of Criticism. In Temple Bar, LXXX (241-247).

Howe, Herbert Crombie. The Contradictions of Literary Criticism. In North American Review,
CLXXV (399-408).

Hunt, T.W. Critics and Criticism. In Modern Language Notes, IV, p. 161.

EARLY REVIEWS OF ENGLISH POETS

THOMAS GRAY

ODES. By Mr. Gray. 4to. 1s. Dodsley.

As this publication seems designed for those who have formed their taste by the models of antiquity,
the generality of Readers cannot be supposed adequate Judges of its merit; nor will the Poet,
it is presumed, be greatly disappointed if he finds them backward in commending a performance
not entirely suited to their apprehensions. We cannot, however, without some regret behold
those talents so capable of giving pleasure to all, exerted in efforts that, at best, can amuse
only the few; we cannot behold this rising Poet seeking fame among the learned, without hinting
to him the same advice that Isocrates used to give his Scholars, Study the People. This study
it is that has conducted the great Masters of antiquity up to immortality. Pindar himself,
of whom our modern Lyrist is an imitator, appears entirely guided by it. He adapted his works
exactly to the dispositions of his countrymen. Irregular[,] enthusiastic, and quick in transition,--he
wrote for a people inconstant, of warm imaginations and exquisite sensibility. He chose the
most popular subjects, and all his allusions are to customs well known, in his day, to the
meanest person.[F]

His English Imitator wants those advantages. He speaks to a people not easily impressed with
new ideas; extremely tenacious of the old; with difficulty warmed; and as slowly cooling again.--How
unsuited then to our national character is that species of poetry which rises upon us with
unexpected flights! Where we must hastily catch the thought, or it flies from us; and, in short,
where the Reader must largely partake of the Poet's enthusiasm, in order to taste his beauties.
To carry the parallel a little farther; the Greek Poet wrote in a language the most proper
that can be imagined for this species of composition; lofty, harmonious, and never needing
rhyme to heighten the numbers. But, for us, several unsuccessful experiments seem to prove
that the English cannot have Odes in blank Verse; while, on the other hand, a natural imperfection
attends those which are composed in irregular rhymes:--the similar sound often recurring where
it is not expected, and not being found where it is, creates no small confusion to the Reader,--who,
as we have not seldom observed, beginning in all the solemnity of poetic elocution, is by frequent
disappointments of the rhyme, at last obliged to drawl out the uncomplying numbers into disagreeable
prose.

It is, by no means, our design to detract from the merit of our Author's present attempt: we
would only intimate, that an English Poet,--one whom the Muse has mark'd for her own, could
produce a more luxuriant bloom of flowers, by cultivating such as are natives of the soil,
than by endeavouring to force the exotics of another climate: or, to speak without a metaphor,
such a genius as Mr. Gray might give greater pleasure, and acquire a larger portion of fame,
if, instead of being an imitator, he did justice to his talents, and ventured to be more an
original. These two Odes, it must be confessed, breath[e] much of the spirit of Pindar, but
then they have caught the seeming obscurity, the sudden transition, and hazardous epithet,
of his mighty master; all which, though evidently intended for beauties, will, probably, be
regarded as blemishes, by the generality of his Readers. In short, they are in some measure,
a representation of what Pindar now appears to be, though perhaps, not what he appeared to
the States of Greece, when they rivalled each other in his applause, and when Pan himself was
seen dancing to his melody.

In conformity to the antients, these Odes consist of the Strophe, Antistrophe, and Epode, which,
in each Ode, are thrice repeated. The Strophes have a correspondent resemblance in their str[u]cture
and numbers: and the Antistrophe and Epode also bear the same similitude. The Poet seems, in
the first Ode particularly, to design the Epode as a complete air to the Strophe and Antistrophe,
which have more the appearance of Recitative. Always closer
I heard the pursuers behind me, restless and silent, he was on our heels; Then suddenly I heard
you by my side his skates sharp inhibit the ice, and a heavy hand fell next to mine on the
back of the slide. "Half Part, Philip!" he cried, seizing the other on my chest.

I tore his hand away and pushed the carriage that he hinflog far ahead. But At the same moment
I received a blow and fell to the back of the head ruecklings on the ice. I only vaguely heard the
Fortschurren of the slide, and then I lost consciousness.

I was however not long in this position. As I later heard from him, had Christopher soon after
I looked around and was to meet me because he did not see the square turned back our struggle.
Not without great consternation then both had after Lore got out, lifted me into the carriage
.-- I myself was only a vague feeling of it all; It was like waking dream. Sometimes I understood
a few words of their conversation. "Keep it ! Your coat, Lore "I heard Chris say .--" Oh no,
I do not need him, I walk yes. "- and too, I felt that something hot fell down on me The carriage
moved. slowly forward. Then it came like dawn over me, but it was always me As if a faint crying
beside me.

To a complete consciousness until I woke up in the living room and on the sofa of the water Mueller,
of hard on the banks of the mill pond lived. Lore had with her mother, who now also came out was,
have to go home, but Chris stayed behind and had deals at the Council of the Mueller woman
with it, I wet compresses on the head . Lay When I opened my eyes, he sat beside me on the
chair, an earthen bowl with water between the knees. He was about to renew the sheet, but he
moved now Shy hands back and asked, "May I help you, Philip?

I sat up and looked for me to collect my thoughts, my head hurt. "No," I said then, "I do not need
your help."

"Should I pick up someone for out of town?"

"Go, I'll have to come home alone."

Chris got up slowly and put the bowl on the table.

Soon after the Stubentuer creaked, and he had the jack in hand, but
he did not go on.

When I turned, I saw the eyes of my old comrades with the expression of the most honest Sadness
to me directed.

Just a second I was still undecided.

"Chris," I said as I got up and he held out his hand, "if you have time, so a little stay with
me, you can give me your arm, then we go into town together. "

Like a flash of joy ran down his face. He grabbed my hand and shook them. "It was a disgraceful
kick, Phil!" he said.

Half an hour later, as it was already completely dark, we walked slowly
to the City back.

But the thing was not so easily passed. I was the next morning, the
bed is not leave and had to confess to my parents that I have taken
a heavy fall on the ice.

On the following evening, I was almost restored,
sat my mother Federkaestchen of a polished wooden box of sugar in
front of me on the table. "The Chris Werner it has brought, "she said,"
He did it even worked for you. "

I took the box in his hand. It was
neatly done, even on the cover with a small carving provided.

"He
asked about your condition," continued my mother, "Do ye out your
old friend again sealed? "

"Signed and sealed, mother - and how you
want to take it," I said, smiling. 8vo. 5s. Johnson.

These Poems are written, as we learn from the title-page, by Mr. Cowper of the Inner Temple,
who seems to be a man of a sober and religious turn of mind, with a benevolent heart, and a
serious wish to inculcate the precepts of morality; he is not, however, possessed of any superior
abilities, or powers of genius, requisite to so arduous an undertaking; his verses are, in
general, weak and languid, and have neither novelty, spirit, or animation, to recommend them;
that mediocrity so severely condemned by Horace,

    Non Dii non homines, &c.

pervades the whole; and, whilst the author avoids every thing that is ridiculous or contemptible,
he, at the same time, never rises to any thing that we can commend or admire. He says what
is incontrovertible, and what has already been said over and over, with much gravity, but says
nothing new, sprightly, or entertaining; travelling on in a plain, level, flat road, with great
composure, almost through the whole long, and rather tedious volume, which is little better
than a dull sermon, in very indifferent verse, on Truth, the Progress of Error, Charity, and
some other grave subjects. If this author had followed the advice given by Caraccioli,[G] and
which he has chosen for one of the mottos prefixed to these Poems, he would have clothed his
indisputable truths in some becoming disguise, and rendered his work much more agreeable. In
its present state, we cannot compliment him on its shape or beauty; for, as this bard himself
sweetly sings,

    'The clear harangue, and cold as it is clear,
    Falls soporific on the listless ear.'

In his learned dissertation on Hope, we meet with the following lines

    [Quotes some fifty lines from Hope beginning,
      Build by whatever plan caprice decrees,
      With what materials, on what ground you please, etc.]

All this is very true; but there needs no ghost, nor author, nor poet, to tell us what we knew
before, unless he could tell it to us in a new and better manner. Add to this, that many of
our author's expressions are coarse, vulgar, and unpoetical; such as parrying, pushing by,
spitting abhorrence, &c. The greatest part of Mr. Cowper's didactics is in the same strain.
He attempts indeed sometimes to be lively, facetious, and satirical; but is seldom more successful
in this, than in the serious and pathetic. In his poem on Conversation there are two or three
faint attempts at humour; in one of them he tells us that

    'A story in which native humour reigns
    Is often useful, always entertains,
    A graver fact enlisted on your side,
    May furnish illustration, well applied;
    But sedentary weavers of long tales,
    Give me the fidgets and my patience fails.
    'Tis the most asinine employ on earth,
    To hear them tell of parentage and birth,
    And echo conversations dull and dry,
    Embellished with, he said, and so said I.
    At ev'ry interview their route the same,
    The repetition makes attention lame,
    We bustle up with unsuccessful speed,
    And in the saddest part cry--droll indeed!
    The path of narrative with care pursue,
    Still making probability your clue,
    On all the vestiges of truth attend,
    And let them guide you to a decent end.
    Of all ambitions man may entertain,
    The worst that can invade a sickly brain,
    Is that which angles hourly for surprize,
    And baits its hook with prodigies and lies.
    Credulous infancy or age as weak
    Are fittest auditors for such to seek,
    Who to please others will themselves disgrace,
    Yet please not, but affront you to your face.'

In the passage above quoted, our readers will perceive that the wit is rather aukward, [sic]
and the verses, especially the last, very prosaic.

Toward the end of this volume are some little pieces of a lighter kind, which, after dragging
through Mr. Cowper's long moral lectures, afforded us some relief. The fables of the Lily and
the Rose, the Nightingale and Glow-worm, the Pine-apple and the Bee, with two or three others,
are written with ease and spirit. It is a pity that our author had not confined himself altogether
to this species of poetry, without entering into a system of ethics, for which his genius seems
but ill adapted.--The Critical Review.

[Footnote G: Nous sommes nés pour la vérité, et nous ne pouvons souffrir son abord. Les figures,
les paraboles, les emblémes, sont toujours des ornements nécessaires pour qu'elle puisse s'annoncer:
on veut, en la recevant, qu'elle soit déguisée.]

ROBERT BURNS

Poems, chiefly in the Scottish Dialect. By ROBERT BURNS, Kilmarnock.

When an author we know nothing of solicits our attention, we are but too apt to treat him with
the same reluctant civility we show to a person who has come unbidden into company. Yet talents
and address will gradually diminish the distance of our behaviour, and when the first unfavourable
impression has worn off, the author may become a favourite, and the stranger a friend. The
poems we have just announced may probably have to struggle with the pride of learning and the
partiality of refinement; yet they are intitled to particular indulgence.

Who are you, Mr. Burns? will some surly critic say. At what university have you been educated?
what languages do you understand? what authors have you particularly studied? whether has Aristotle
or Horace directed your taste? who has praised your poems, and under whose patronage are they
published? In short, what qualifications intitle you to instruct or entertain us? To the questions
of such a catechism, perhaps honest Robert Burns would make no satisfactory answers. 'My good
Sir, he might say, I am a poor country man; I was bred up at the school of Kilmarnock; I understand
no languages but my own; I have studied Allan Ramsay and Ferguson. My poems have been praised
at many a fireside; and I ask no patronage for them, if they deserve none. I have not looked
on mankind through the spectacle of books. An ounce of mother-wit, you know, is worth a pound
of clergy; and Homer and Ossian, for any thing that I have heard, could neither write nor read.'
The author is indeed a striking example of native genius bursting through the obscurity of
poverty and the obstructions of laborious life. He is said to be a common ploughman; and when
we consider him in this light, we cannot help regretting that wayward fate had not placed him
in a more favoured situation. Those who view him with the severity of lettered criticism, and
judge him by the fastidious rules of art, will discover that he has not the doric simplicity
of Ramsay, nor the brilliant imagination of Ferguson; but to those who admire the exertions
of untutored fancy, and are blind to many faults for the sake of numberless beauties, his poems
will afford singular gratification. His observations on human characters are acute and sagacious,
and his descriptions are lively and just. Of rustic pleasantry he has a rich fund; and some
of his softer scenes are touched with inimitable delicacy. He seems to be a boon companion,
and often startles us with a dash of libertinism, which will keep some readers at a distance.
Some of his subjects are serious, but those of the humorous kind are the best. It is not meant,
however, to enter into a minute investigation of his merits, as the copious extracts we have
subjoined will enable our readers to judge for themselves. The Character Horace gives to Osellus
is particularly applicable to him.

    Rusticus abnormis sapiens, crassaque Minerva.

[Quotes Address to the Deil, from the Epistle to a Brother Bard, from Description of a Sermon
in the Fields, and from Hallowe'en.]--The Edinburgh Magazine.

Poems, chiefly in the Scottish Dialect. By Robert Burns. Printed at Kilmarnock.

We have had occasion to examine a number of poetical productions, written by persons in the
lower rank of life, and who had hardly received any education; but we do not recollect to have
ever met with a more signal instance of true and uncultivated genius, than in the author of
these Poems. His occupation is that of a common ploughman; and his life has hitherto been spent
in struggling with poverty. But all the rigours of fortune have not been able to repress the
frequent efforts of his lively and vigorous imagination. Some of these poems are of a serious
cast; but the strain which seems most natural to the author, is the sportive and humorous.
It is to be regretted, that the Scottish dialect, in which these poems are written, must obscure
the native beauties with which they appear to abound, and renders the sense often unintelligible
to an English reader. Should it, however, prove true, that the author has been taken under
the patronage of a great lady in Scotland, and that a celebrated professor has interested himself
in the cultivation of his talents, there is reason to hope, that his distinguished genius may
yet be exerted in such a manner as to afford more general delight. In the meantime, we must
admire the generous enthusiasm of his untutored muse; and bestow the tribute of just applause
on one whose name will be transmitted to posterity with honour.--The Critical Review.

WILLIAM WORDSWORTH

Descriptive Sketches, in Verse. Taken during a Pedestrian Tour in the Italian, Grison, Swiss
and Savoyard Alps. By W. WORDSWORTH, B.A. of St. John's, Cambridge. 4to. pp. 55. 3s. Johnson. 1793.

More descriptive poetry! (See page 166, &c.) Have we not yet enough? Must eternal changes be
rung on uplands and lowlands, and nodding forests, and brooding clouds, and cells, and dells,
and dingles? Yes; more, and yet more: so it is decreed.

Mr. Wordsworth begins his descriptive sketches with the following exordium:

    'Were there, below, a spot of holy ground,
    By Pain and her sad family unfound,
    Sure, Nature's God that spot to man had giv'n,
    Where murmuring rivers join the song of ev'n!
    Where falls the purple morning far and wide
    In flakes of light upon the mountain side;
    Where summer suns in ocean sink to rest,
    Or moonlight upland lifts her hoary breast;
    Where Silence, on her night of wing, o'er-broods
    Unfathom'd dells and undiscover'd woods;
    Where rocks and groves the power of waters shakes
    In cataracts, or sleeps in quiet lakes.'

May we ask, how it is that rivers join the song of ev'n? or, in plain prose, the evening! but,
if they do, is it not true that they equally join the song of morning, noon, and night? The
purple morning falling in flakes of light is a bold figure: but we are told, it falls far and
wide--Where?--On the mountain's side. We are sorry to see the purple morning confined so like
a maniac in a straight waistcoat. What the night of wing of silence is, we are unable to comprehend:
but the climax of the passage is, that, were there such a spot of holy ground as is here so
sublimely described, unfound by Pain and her sad family, Nature's God had surely given that
spot to man, though its woods were undiscovered.

Let us proceed,

    'But doubly pitying Nature loves to show'r
    Soft on his wounded heart her healing pow'r,
    Who plods o'er hills and vales his road forlorn,
    Wooing her varying charms from eve to morn.
    No sad vacuities his heart annoy,
    Blows not a Zephyr but it whispers joy;
    For him lost flowers their idle sweets exhale;
    He tastes the meanest note that swells the gale;
    For him sod-seats the cottage-door adorn,
    And peeps the far-off spire, his evening bourn!
    Dear is the forest frowning o'er his head,
    And dear the green-sward to his velvet tread;
    Moves there a cloud o'er mid-day's flaming eye?
    Upwards he looks--and calls it luxury;
    Kind Nature's charities his steps attend,
    In every babbling brook he finds a friend.'

Here we find that doubly pitying Nature is very kind to the traveller, but that this traveller
has a wounded heart and plods his road forlorn. He is the happiest of mortals, and plods, is
forlorn, and has a wounded heart. How often shall we in vain advise those, who are so delighted
with their own thoughts that they cannot forbear from putting them into rhyme, to examine those
thoughts till they themselves understand them? No man will ever be a poet, till his mind be
sufficiently powerful to sustain this labour.--The Monthly Review.

An Evening Walk. An Epistle; in Verse. Addressed to a Young Lady, from the Lakes of the North
of England. By W. Wordsworth, B.A. of St. John's, Cambridge. 4to. pp. 27. 2s. Johnson. 1793.

In this Epistle, the subject and the manner of treating it vary but little from the former
poem. We will quote four lines from a passage which the author very sorrowfully apologizes
for having omitted:

    'Return delights! with whom my road begun,
    When Life-rear'd laughing up her morning sun;
    When Transport kiss'd away my April tear,
    "Rocking as in a dream the tedious year."

Life rearing up the sun! Transport kissing away an April tear and rocking the year as in a
dream! Would the cradle had been specified! Seriously, these are figures which no poetical
license can justify. If they can possibly give pleasure, it must be to readers whose habits
of thinking are totally different from ours. Mr. Wordsworth is a scholar, and, no doubt, when
reading the works of others, a critic. There are passages in his poems which display imagination,
and which afford hope for the future: but, if he can divest himself of all partiality, and
will critically question every line that he has written, he will find many which, he must allow,
call loudly for amendment.--The Monthly Review.

Lyrical Ballads, with a few other Poems. Small 8vo. 5s. Boards. Arch. 1798.

The majority of these poems, we are informed in the advertisement, are to be considered as
experiments.

'They were written chiefly with a view to ascertain how far the language of conversation in
the middle and lower classes of society is adapted to the purposes of poetic pleasure.' P. i.

Of these experimental poems, the most important is the Idiot Boy, the story of which is simply
this. Betty Foy's neighbour Susan Gale is indisposed; and no one can conveniently be sent for
the doctor but Betty's idiot boy. And I pictured I would be
one morning as a wandering ascetic at the entrance of your house as you I will personally
fill the begging bowl and it would recognize me - and then the to all the indescribable joy,
have again found us.

Of course it was a pilgrimage to Ujjeni, and it was fitting of a nun not alone to make a pilgrimage.
But I did not take long to find a companion. Especially in this Somadatta time was a sad end. His
passion for the cube was always unhappy more gained the upper hand, and after he had gambled away
all his possessions, he drowned himself in the Ganga. The deeply shocked Medini now entered into
the Order. It had probably less his religious life even in its harsh austerity and with his
high goals, what they irresistible in this sacred grove moved, but rather the need to always
close to me to dwell, for her childish heart was with touching loyalty to me. And because I doubted
also no doubt that when I revealed to her my plan with me to Ujjeni, yes, if it should be,
would go up to the end of the world. Even now given me their Society for the encouragement often
how I was on the other hand their sincere sorrow mitigated the loss of her husband by comforting
words.

When the time came where Angulimala been expected return, I went every afternoon after the southwestern
edge of the forest and sat under a beautiful tree, even on a Hill, from which I could from the
way he had come far to follow with the eyes.

I thought he would probably reach its destination in the evening.

One week I was there in vain guard, was also taken out a month wait long to have. On the eighth
day, however, as the sun was so low that I had to shade his eyes with his hand, I was aware of in the
distance a figure that approached the forest. Soon she shone yellow cloak, and when returning
them in a forest worker walked past, it was realized that it was unusually high stature. It was
in the Indeed Angulimala - alone. My Kamanita he had not "brought back safe and sound" - what's
doing?

If he could only assure me that the loved one was alive, I'd own the way to find him.

My heart beat violently, as Angulimala stood before me and greeted
me with polite decorum.

"Kamanita lives in his native city in greater prosperity," he said,
"I have seen it myself and spoken.

"

And he told me now, as he was one morning, come to your palatial home,
such as your two women had grossly insulted him, as you were then
added entered himself, had the wicked women chased into the house
and spoken to him kindly and apologetically.

And when he was all - as you know yes - had reported accurately, he bowed to I suggested that the
coat back to the shoulder and turned around as if he is in the same
direction wanted to continue walking, instead of going into the forest.

Surprised,

I asked him if he did not go to the hall of the monks.

"I have now," he replied, "to be directed your job faithfully, and nothing there now everything
that could prevent me from taking my way eastward, in the footsteps of the sublime, to Benares and
Rajagaha, where I will find him now. "

So speaking, this mighty man walked with long strides Fürbaß, the forest edge along without having
to treat the slightest break.

I stared at him long and saw the setting sun, its shadow far before him to the edge of the hill
on the horizon, even as it stretched beyond, as if his longing he
impetuously rushing ahead, while I was left like a lame without a
dream destination for any hope of love.

My heart was dead, vanished my dream. The tangy Asketenwort "a dirt angle domesticity, "echoed through
my barren soul. On that beautiful terrace of the concerns of lots in the open, and sternenblinkendem
monddurchstrahltem sky so my love was at home. As I would fool can ever remember it after that
dirty angled Domesticity in Ujjeni Send to beg so that they begeiferten bickering women with abuse?

With
difficulty I dragged myself back to my cell to tell me to lay on a sick bed. This sudden destruction
of my hopes was feverishly excited too much for my already after months of soul struggles shook resistance.
With an unparalleled self-sacrifice used Medini me day and night. Once, however, supported by
their care, my spirit could rise above the pain and fever, fire, my walking plan matured into
a new Direction.

Not to where I had sent Angulimala, but where he now migrates from himself, wanted to make a pilgrimage
I now: I follow the footsteps of the Master wanted him until I Should that. Was I not with
my spell end? How does the heartache, I had indeed experienced in the deepest sense. And also
because I could, I thought that the Buddha seek and revive the power
of the Holy let me re-order after the highest goals continue to press
forward.

I trusted because of this, too, my good Medini project, which immediately
with true zeal the unexpected thoughts and recorded in their child's
mind imagined how wonderful it would be to strip together with me
through beautiful areas, free as the birds by the air when the traveling
time she calls to distant climes.

Of course we first had to wait patiently until I had regained sufficient strength. And as was
the case in some measure, presented us with the rainy season has already occurred even long ordeal
on.

In his last speech, the Almighty had called to us:

"Like for instance, if in the last month of the rainy season, in autumn,
after distraction and displacement the water-pregnant clouds, the
sun rises in the sky and shining all the mists of the air away, and
flame and light: just now, young men appear, because this way of life,
the current welfare and future well-bring, and scares away the brilliant
gossip ordinary priest and penitent, and blazes and shines.

"

But when the nature all around us realized this picture, we left the grove in front of Krishna
Kosambi, and east of directing our steps, we rushed towards that
sun of a holy life.

XLIII. THE NIRVANA OF THE PERFECT

My exhaustion would not allow me to take long day hikes and forced we sometimes treat ourselves to a
day off, so we only after a month-long pilgrimage in Vesali arrived, where, as we knew, had held up the
Almighty for a longer time in where he was moved about six weeks ago continues.

Shortly before we were in a village, where supporters of the doctrine
is lived, that Sariputta Moggallana and had entered into Nirvana.

The idea that these two great disciples, the chiefs of the doctrine, as we called them, not
dwelt on the earth shook me deep. Well we all knew that these were great, even the Buddha himself,
only people as we are, but the idea that they could rely, was never turned up in us. Sariputta I
had solved so many times in his deliberate way, difficult questions of doctrine, was gone away.
He was the disciple who looked similar to the master, and he stood as the Almighty in his
eightieth Years of life, it is possible that the Buddha himself is
already the end of his earthly life approached?

Perhaps the unrest that resulted from that fear a creeping rest of
my Fever state anschürte again at least I came in exhausted and sick
Vesali.

Here lived a rich follower of the Order, it had to be in place for the migratory Monks and nuns to
care in every way. As they learned that a sick nun arrived was, they called on me immediately,
and Medini brought me to her house and took care of me there care.

Across from her very soon I expressed my fear: if it was possible
well that the Almighty, is as old as the Sariputta, we would now leave
soon?

As the pious soul broke into a flood of tears and cried, sobbing:

"Oh, so you know there still is not here in Vesali - about two months ago - has indeed blessed the
predicted that there will be three months after his Nirvana. We have it all here seen for the
last time. And just think: if only Ananda possessed sufficient intelligence and right Time
would have spoken, that would never happen, and the Buddha would have until the end of this
Period of the world continued to live!

"

I asked what I got to do with the Ananda good with it, and how making such a Complaint had earned.

"On the following way," replied the woman. "One day before the Blessed One was staying with Ananda
the city in which Capala Temple. Now the Blessed One said to Ananda: whoever the intellectual Forces
have developed complete in itself, which could, if he wished, by a whole world period stay
alive. O over this stupid Ananda, that he, despite this broad hint immediately said: 'May
the Almighty but a world through the period for the salvation of many Stay alive! " Certainly
his mind was by Mara, evil, possessed, since he made his first change then brought forward,
as it was too late. "

"How could it be too late," I asked, "since the lives sublime still?"

"It was as follows. You must know, fifty years ago, when the sublime in Uruvela the Buddha had
gained knowledge, and after seven years of struggle the possession of sacred peace of mind
enjoying, under the Nyagrodhabaume of goat herders stayed: there approached him Mara, the evil,
very much concerned about the risk that his kingdom was threatened by the Buddha, and in the
hope to prevent the spread of the doctrine, he said: 'Hail! Now it is time for the sublime,
to take into Nirvana! " But the Buddha replied: 'No more will I, you evil, Nirvana go until I've
proclaimed the doctrine of humanity, not more than I've signed up
disciples who are able to defend this doctrine against attacks and
to announce further.

Only then, Evil, I shall enter into Nirvana, when the Realm of truth is firmly established.
"

Now that we spoke of the sublime here on Çapalaheiligtum so, as I told you to Ananda and this was,
without understanding the hint, had left, approached the Mara, the evil, the Blessed One said
to him: 'Hail! Now for the sublime, the time has come when the Enter into Nirvana. What I known
then as the Exalted Nyagrodhabaume of goat herders Uruvela as a condition for his Nirvana stated, this
is now fulfilled. Is firmly established the realm of truth. May the
Almighty so now go into Nirvana!

" Then the Buddha to Mara, the evil, thus: 'Be thou, O wicked one, without worry! The Nirvana
of the Perfect will take place soon, after the lapse of three months from now is the Perfect
in the Nirvana go. "

With these words, however, the earth trembled, as you probably noticed yourself will have. "

In
fact, we were in Kosambi, about a month before I left the sacred grove, a slight earthquake
felt what I told her now.

"Look!" cried the woman excitedly - "anywhere they felt it. The whole earth shook, and the drums
of the gods groaned as the Perfect waived longer life.

Ah! but understood that the silly Ananda in time to him so clearly given Wink would! For as he now
aroused by this earthquake from his self well, to the sublime came back and told him he might
still passed the rest of this world period to stay alive - because yes the Perfect Mara had
already given his word and waives longer life.

"

From these words of the pious but somewhat superstitious woman, I gathered that the Master felt during
his stay in Vesali sign of approaching death, and probably the Disciples
have said that he would die soon.

So it was suffering me any longer under the hospitable roof. I had to reach the Buddha, before
he left us. That was our great consolation was that we were always on him, the could turn inexhaustible
source of truth.

Only from that yes, all my doubts frightened soul to be solved, only he was all over the world so
capable of me peace play, which I had once tasted when I am old Krishna
temple in Sinsapawalde Kosambi him sat at his feet.

So we set off for when, after the lapse of ten days, my forces me
to wander to some extent allowed.

My good landlady, who made a scruple to me in my weakened continue
to have a state, I consoled with the promise of her greeting to the
sublime to your feet.

We went in a north-westerly direction in the footsteps of the sublime, we always were fresh,
the farther we advanced, from one place to inquire. was in Ambagama
He was eight days before, he had the Salahain of Bhoganagara three
days before our arrival , Leave to go to Pava.

Very tired, we met in the early afternoon in this place.

The first house that we noticed was, a coppersmith, as in the many metal products identify,
was standing along the wall. But no hammer was heard, and it seemed a public holiday to be,
and in the court were at the well washed by the servants of bowls
and plates, as if there had been a wedding.

Then came a small, festively-dressed man approached us and asked politely, our alms bowls to be able
to fill.

"If you were a couple of hours come earlier," he added, "I would have
at my parties had two dear and excellent guests, for your Master,
the Exalted, has today with its Monks with me fed.

"

"So because of the sublime is still here in Pava?"

"No more, now most venerable one," answered the coppersmith.

"Right after the meal the Master of a severe illness attacked with sharp pain that he fainted
brought close, so we were all terrified a lot. But the sublime overcame this attack and went
about an hour later after Kusinara. "

Most of all I would have immediately moved on, because what the blacksmith of the disease attack
said, let me fear the worst.

But it was an imperative need to to strengthen the body not only by food but also by short
rest.

The road from Pava after Kusinara was hard to miss. He soon led to the cultivated fields gone by Tiger
grass and scrub, deeper and deeper into the jungle. We waded through a small river and refreshed ourselves
somewhat by swimming. After a short rest we started again on. It
was evening, and I could only with difficulty to drag on.

Medini
I tried to persuade her to stay under a tree on a small hill. There
was no such great hurry:

"This Kusinara probably is not much more
than a village, and seems completely buried in the jungles be. How
can you believe that the Perfect is going to die here? Certainly he
is once in Jetavanapark at Savitti, or in one of two trees at Rajagaha
divorced from there; But the Almighty will not go out but in this
desert! Who has ever heard of Kusinara? "

"Maybe from now on will
be hearing from Kusinara," I said and went on.

My forces were soon
so exhausted that I had to make up my mind, the next treeless climb
the hill to recognize, in the hope of there, the proximity to Kusinaras.
Otherwise we had to spend the night there, where we the attacks of
predators and snakes less were exposed and the fever-producing fumes
remained fairly remote.

arrived up there, we looked in vain for some
sign of human residences. Apparently the jungles continuously increased
gradually up before us like a carpet, the one in the amount of moves.
But soon large trees on the low bushes, and the dense masses of foliage
of a high-arched their forest domes on each other, and in a black
Canyon foamed a torrent, the same power, in its quiet running water,
we briefly had previously bathed.

The whole day was over, it was
humid and cloudy. Here we are now blowing a fresh breeze contrary,
and it was always clear before our eyes, as if a veil after the other
released would.

Enormous rock walls piled up over the forest, and
when her roof built green hilltops higher and higher up - forested
mountains, it had to be so, even though they looked like moss cushion
- always higher in the sky until it seemed to disappear himself. It ends with this unmeaning
prophecy.

    'Thou long the poet's praise shalt gain;
    Thou wilt be more beloved by men
    In times to come; thou not in vain
      Art Nature's favourite.' I. 6.

The next is called 'Louisa,' and begins in this dashing and affected manner.

    'I met Louisa in the shade;
    And, having seen that lovely maid,
    Why should I fear to say
    That she is ruddy, fleet, and strong;
    And down the rocks can leap along,
    Like rivulets in May?' I. 7.

Does Mr Wordsworth really imagine that this is at all more natural or engaging than the ditties
of our common song writers?

A little farther on we have another original piece, entitled, 'The Redbreast and the Butterfly,'
of which our readers will probably be contented with the first stanza.

    'Art thou the bird whom man loves best,
    The pious bird with the scarlet breast,
      Our little English Robin;
    The bird that comes about our doors
    When autumn winds are sobbing?
    Art thou the Peter of Norway Boors?
      Their Thomas in Finland,
      And Russia far inland?
    The bird, whom by some name or other
    All men who know thee call their brother,
    The darling of children and men?
    Could Father Adam open his eyes,
    And see this sight beneath the skies,
    He'd wish to close them again.' I. 16.

This, it must be confessed, is 'Silly Sooth' in good earnest. The three last [sic] lines seem
to be downright raving.

By and by, we have a piece of namby-pamby 'to the Small Celandine,' which we should almost
have taken for a professed imitation of one of Mr Philip's prettyisms. Here is a page of it.

    'Comfort have thou of thy merit,
    Kindly, unassuming spirit!
    Careless of thy neighbourhood,
    Thou dost show thy pleasant face
    On the moor, and in the wood,
    In the lane;--there's not a place,
    Howsoever mean it be,
    But 'tis good enough for thee.
    Ill befal the yellow flowers,
    Children of the flaring hours!
    Buttercups, that will be seen,
    Whether we will see or no;
    Others, too, of lofty mien;
    They have done as worldlings do,
    Taken praise that should be thine,
    Little, humble, Celandine!' I. 25.

After talking of its 'bright coronet,' the ditty is wound up with this piece of babyish absurdity.

    'Thou art not beyond the moon,
    But a thing "beneath our shoon;"
    Let, as old Magellan did,
    Others roam about the sea;
    Build who will a pyramid;
    Praise it is enough for me,
    If there be but three or four
    Who will love my little flower.' I. 30.

After this come some more manly lines on 'The Character of the Happy Warrior,' and a chivalrous
legend on 'The Horn of Egremont Castle,' which, without being very good, is very tolerable,
and free from most of the author's habitual defects. Then follow some pretty, but professedly
childish verses, on a kitten playing with the falling leaves. There is rather too much of Mr
Ambrose Philips here and there in this piece also; but it is amiable and lively. "Where
is Lore?" I asked.

"I do not know," he said glumly, "it was fucking monosyllabic, it's
not me betrayed.

"

I went with him into the hall. When we came to the chamber in which the company has its Coats had
passed, they came to meet us, she had looked around a bit her coat
and her black Seidenkaeppchen on the head.

"Lore!" I cried and tried to take her hand, but she withdrew me and
walked past us.

"Leave!" she said briefly. "I want to go home!"

A moment later they had the heavy door thrown open to the street leading
and jumped out of the Eisengelaender down the stone stairs, and next
to me and Fritz stood out on the tiles, she was already well down
there in the street, that we in the Darkness her light volatile form
only could scarcely be seen.

"Let them!" Fritz said. "Or you have appetite for the wild-goose-chase?"

Although I had the pleasure, and I did not know quite how it should begin and justifiably .--
Sun we then went back into the hall.

Mrs. Beauregard went to her apartment, but she returned unverichtetersache again. The Lore has
become ill, she said, she lay in bed, the father sitting with her.

I was now the rest of the evening spoiled, and should begin when the
cotillion, with whom I Lore intended to dance, I crept quietly and
truebselig home.

New Year's Day was over. I have long had with the smooth sole of
my steel my Dutch Skates flirted, not without a little contempt for
my comrades, who still tended to use the traditional sharp-edged iron.
But only now was a permanent frost occurred.

It was a Sunday afternoon,
over the mill pond, a medium-sized inland lake near the city was,
a brilliant Mirror of Ice. The poet, driving into Durham in a postchaise,
hears a sort of scream; and, calling to the post-boy to stop, finds a little girl crying on
the back of the vehicle.

    "My cloak!" the word was last and first,
    And loud and bitterly she wept,
    As if her very heart would burst;
    And down from off the chaise she leapt.

    "What ails you, child?" she sobb'd, "Look here!"
    I saw it in the wheel entangled,
    A weather beaten rag as e'er
    From any garden scarecrow dangled.' I. 85, 86.

They then extricate the torn garment, and the good-natured bard takes the child into the carriage
along with him. The narrative proceeds--

    "My child, in Durham do you dwell?"
    She check'd herself in her distress,
    And said, "My name is Alice Fell;
    I'm fatherless and motherless.

    And I to Durham, Sir, belong."
    And then, as if the thought would choke
    Her very heart, her grief grew strong;
    And all was for her tatter'd cloak.

    The chaise drove on; our journey's end
    Was nigh; and, sitting by my side,
    As if she'd lost her only friend
    She wept, nor would be pacified.

    Up to the tavern-door we post;
    Of Alice and her grief I told;
    And I gave money to the host,
    To buy a new cloak for the old.

    "And let it be of duffil grey,
    As warm a cloak as man can sell!"
    Proud creature was she the next day,
    The little orphan, Alice Fell!' I. p. 87, 88.

If the printing of such trash as this be not felt as an insult on the public taste, we are
afraid it cannot be insulted.

After this follows the longest and most elaborate poem in the volume, under the title of 'Resolution
and Independence.' The poet, roving about on a common one fine morning, falls into pensive
musings on the fate of the sons of song, which he sums up in this fine distich.

In the midst of his meditations--

    'I saw a man before me unawares;
    The oldest man he seemed that ever wore grey hairs.
    At length, himself unsettling, he the pond
    Stirred with his staff, and fixedly did look
    Upon the muddy water, which he conn'd,
    As if he had been reading in a book:
    And now such fre[e]dom as I could I took;
    And, drawing to his side, to him did say,
    "This morning gives us promise of a glorious day."

              ----------

    "What kind of work is that which you pursue?
    This is a lonesome place for one like you."
    He answer'd me with pleasure and surprise;
    And there was, while he spake, a fire about his eyes.
    He told me that he to this pond had come
    To gather leeches, being old and poor:
    Employment hazardous and wearisome!
    And he had many hardships to endure:
    From pond to pond he roam'd, from moor to moor,
    Housing, with God's good help, by choice or chance:
    And in this way he gain'd an honest maintenance.' I. p. 92-95.

Notwithstanding the distinctness of this answer, the poet, it seems, was so wrapped up in his
own moody fancies, that he could not attend to it. I. p. 96, 97.

This very interesting account, which he is lucky enough at last to comprehend, fills the poet
with comfort and admiration; and, quite glad to find the old man so cheerful, he resolves to
take a lesson of contentedness from him; and the poem ends with this pious ejaculation--

    "God," said I, "be my help and stay secure;
    I'll think of the leech-gatherer on the lonely moor." I. p. 97.

We defy the bitterest enemy of Mr Wordsworth to produce anything at all parallel to this from
any collection of English poetry, or even from the specimens of his friend Mr Southey. The
volume ends with some sonnets, in a very different measure, of which we shall say something
by and by.

The first poems in the second volume were written during a tour in Scotland. The first is a
very dull one about Rob Roy; but the title that attracted us most was 'an Address to the Sons
of Burns, after visiting their Father's Grave.' Never was anything, however, more miserable.
This is one of the four stanzas.

    'Strong bodied if ye be to bear
    Intemperance with less harm, beware!
    But if your father's wit ye share,
      Then, then indeed,
    Ye sons of Burns! for watchful care
      There will be need.' II. p. 29.

The next is a very tedious, affected performance, called 'the Yarrow Unvisited.' The drift
of it is, that the poet refused to visit this celebrated stream, because he had 'a vision of
his own' about it, which the reality might perhaps undo; and, for this no less fantastical reason--

    "Should life be dull, and spirits low,
    'Twill soothe us in our sorrow,
    That earth has something yet to show,
    The bonny holms of Yarrow!" II. p. 35.

After this we come to some ineffable compositions which the poet has simply entitled, 'Moods
of my own Mind.' One begins--

    'O Nightingale! thou surely art
    A creature of a fiery heart--
    Thou sing'st as if the god of wine
    Had help'd thee to a valentine.' II. p. 42.

A third, 'on a Sparrow's Nest,' runs thus--

    'Look, five blue eggs are gleaming there!
    Few visions have I seen more fair,
    Nor many prospects of delight
    More pleasing than that simple sight.' II. p. 53.

The charm of this fine prospect, however, was, that it reminded him of another nest which his
sister Emmeline and he had visited in their childhood.

    'She look'd at it as if she fear'd it;
    Still wishing, dreading to be near it:
    Such heart was in her, being then
    A little prattler among men,' &c., &c. II. p. 54.

We have then a rapturous mystical ode to the Cuckoo; in which the author, striving after force
and originality, produces nothing but absurdity.

    'O cuckoo! shall I call thee bird,
    Or but a wandering voice?' II. p. 57.

And then he says, that the said voice seemed to pass from hill to hill, 'about and all about!'--Afterwards
he assures us, it tells him 'in the vale of visionary hours,' and calls it a darling; but still
insists, that it is

    'No bird; but an invisible thing,
    A voice,--a mystery.' II. p. 58.

After this there is an address to a butterfly, whom he invites to visit him, in these simple
strains--

    'This plot of orchard-ground is ours;
    My trees they are, my sister's flowers;
    Stop here whenever you are weary.' II. p. 61.

We come next to a long story of a 'Blind Highland Boy,' who lived near an arm of the sea, and
had taken a most unnatural desire to venture on that perilous element. His mother did all she
could to prevent him; but one morning, when the good woman was out of the way, he got into
a vessel of his own, and pushed out from the shore.

    'In such a vessel ne'er before
    Did human creature leave the shore.' II. p. 72.

And then we are told, that if the sea should get rough, 'a bee-hive would be ship as safe.'
'But say, what is it?' a poetical interlocutor is made to exclaim most naturally; and here
followeth the answer, upon which all the pathos and interest of the story depend.

    'A HOUSEHOLD TUB, like one of those
    Which women use to wash their clothes!!' II. p. 72.

This, it will be admitted, is carrying the matter as far as it will well go; nor is there anything,--down
to the wiping of shoes, or the evisceration of chickens,--which may not be introduced in poetry,
if this is tolerated. A boat is sent out and brings the boy ashore, who being tolerably frightened
we suppose, promises to go to sea no more; and so the story ends.

The next is called 'Star Gazers.' A set of people peeping through a telescope, all seem to
come away disappointed with the sight; whereupon thus sweetly moralizeth our poet.

    'Yet, showman, where can lie the cause? Shall thy implement have blame,
    A boaster, that when he is tried, fails, and is put to shame?
    Or is it good as others are, and be their eyes in fault?
    Their eyes, or minds? or, finally, is this resplendent vault?

    Or, is it rather, that conceit rapacious is and strong,
    And bounty never yields so much but it seems to do her wrong?
    Or is it, that when human souls a journey long have had,
    And are returned into themselves, they cannot but be sad?' II. p. 88.

There are then some really sweet and amiable verses on a French lady, separated from her own
children, fondling the baby of a neighbouring cottager;--after which we have this quintessence
of unmeaningness, entitled, 'Foresight.'

    'That is work which I am rueing--
    Do as Charles and I are doing!
    Strawberry-blossoms, one and all,
    We must spare them--here are many:
    Look at it--the flower is small,
    Small and low, though fair as any:
    Do not touch it! Summers two
    I am older, Anne, than you.
    Pull the primrose, sister Anne!
    Pull as many as you can.

    Primroses, the spring may love them--
    Summer knows but little of them:
    Violets, do what they will,
    Wither'd on the ground must lie:
    Daisies will be daisies still;
    Daisies they must live and die:
    Fill your lap, and fill your bosom,
    Only spare the strawberry-blossom!' II. p. 115, 116.

Afterwards come some stanzas about an echo repeating a cuckoo's voice; here is one for a sample--

    'Whence the voice? from air or earth?
    This the cuckoo cannot tell;
    But a startling sound had birth,
    As the bird must know full well.' II. p. 123.

Then we have Elegiac stanzas 'to the Spade of a friend,' beginning--

    'Spade! with which Wilkinson hath till'd his lands,'

--but too dull to be quoted any further.

After this there is a Minstrel's Song, on the Restoration of Lord Clifford the Shepherd, which
is in a very different strain of poetry; and then the volume is wound up with an 'Ode,' with
no other title but the motto, Paulo majora canamus. This is, beyond all doubt, the most illegible
and unintelligible part of the publication. We can pretend to give no analysis or explanation
of it;--our readers must make what they can of the following extracts.

    '----But there's a tree, of many one,
    A single field which I have look'd upon,
    Both of them speak of something that is gone:
          The pansy at my feet
          Doth the same tale repeat:
    Whither is fled the visionary gleam? Therefore, my disciples, I disclosed have,
let it be revealed, and what I have left unoffenbart that let unoffenbart . Stay "

As he spoke these words, he opened his hand and dropped the leaves. So when one hinflatterte swirling
in my presence, I took courage, stepped out hastily and caught it, even before it had touched
the ground, as I speak therefore it received from his hand - to to hide then this priceless memento
of my heart, a symbol of the little but only necessities, who told us of his immense knowledge
in Perfected Short, the me until my death should not leave.

This my movement caught the attention of the sublime to me. That giant monk now bowed before
him and made him whisper a message upon which the master me again looked at and then gave the
monks a hint.

This came up to us.

We bowed to us all deeply, and I said that I, the wife of the Minister
Satagira, had brought some small gifts for the Order of the saints,
to whose gracious acceptance I begged, and that we would all come
to hear the words of truth.

"Come here, madam," said the monk - and immediately I heard that it was Angulimala - "the Exalted
will itself take your gifts received. "

We all came to within a few steps to the sublime and bowed deeply to us, it reverently welcoming the
front of the front held, joined hands, without I could utter a word.

"Many are your gifts, madam," said the Master, "and my disciples have few needs. Heirs of the
truth they are not heirs of need but also the Buddhas of the past have held so and gladly accepted
donations devout followers, so will this opportunity to practice the virtue of almsgiving. Because
if the system knew the fruit of giving, as I know them, then they would if they only had a handful
of rice left over, they do not To eat without giving them an even poorer, and the idea of
​​self-interest, of their Spirit obscured, would escape from him. So then is your donation from
the Order of the Buddha Thanks accepted - a pure donation. For that I call a pure donation,
through which the donor and the recipient also will be purified. And how does that happen? There
is, Vasitthi, the Donor morals pure, noble a nature, and the recipients
are morally pure, noble a nature, then, when A donation of purified
donor and the recipient.

That's Vasitthi, the highest purity Donation - is none, you were
offered.

Then the Master turned on Angulimala:

"Go, my dear, and let these
gifts to bring the inventories.

But first, as our noble guests seats at the front steps of the temple, because from there I will
now present the explain the doctrine. "

Angulimala was waiting for the servants and asked us to follow him.

But first we had We publish everything we had brought in flowers, and some beautiful rugs. Then we went
out from our handsome companion, flowing together through the crowd, which we respectfully
made way to the temple.

Here we spread the carpets on the stairs and wrapped garland around the old, weathered and crumbled
columns. Medini then picked apart and I had a whole basket full of roses and scattered the petals
on the carpet on the top step, for the sublime, to to stand.

Meanwhile the congregation are arranged in a large semi-circle, lay the left, The monks and nuns
the right of the temple - the front row, sitting in the grass.

And we now took on a fallen pillar square, just steps from the steps.

It might well be there about five hundred people gathered, but an almost silent silence prevailed
in the round, and was heard only the intermittent noise and the soft
Blätterlispeln of the forest.

XXXVI. BUDDHA AND KRISHNA

The setting sun shot its beams between the tribes through the silent Pending Assembly of the woods
as it consecrates a divine benediction, and pink evening clouds peeped always shining through
the treetops, as if outside of the Blueness of the air floating out a second Assembly heavenly hosts
formed.

The temple in front of me drinking with his black, crumbling stones that last heat of the sun,
as a decrepit old sipping a rejuvenating potion. Under the spell of the red-gold Lights and purple
shadows animate his compositions are wonderful. The jagged edges the Säulenkannelüren glittered,
sparkled the corners, the worm writhed, the wave pattern foamed gold, the foliage grew. The
step-like paragraphs of the high under construction along to plinths and capitals, the beams and
on the terraces of the dome-shaped roof - everywhere suggested it
was in wild confusion of strange and mystical forms.

Gods appeared in glory out, many-armed figures with several heads and luxuriant, often mutilated
limbs, these four headless necks stretching, swinging arm stumps of those eight. Breasts and
hips schwellgliedriger Goddesses unveiled and rolled them like their round faces and bowed
under the weight of towering diadem decorated hair attachments, a sunny smile to the full, thoughtless
lips. The snake writhing bodies of the demons, griffins wings were stretched, grim gnashing
their teeth grinned Unholdsfratzen, people swarmed the body, elephant's trunk, Horse's heads,
bull horns, deer antlers, crocodile jaws, mouths monkey and tiger
jaws staggered mixed in a confused tangle.

This was not a statue decorated building more: the image had come
to life works, the breaking the spell of the building, from its mass
and detaching them as barely support tolerated.

A whole world seemed to be awakened from their sleep of stone and with their Thousands of figures
hervorzudrängen is to listen - to listen to the man who was there surrounded by her flock and chats
on the top step was golden, shiny in the elongated sheath folds falling - he, the living, the
only quiet in the middle troubled life of the lifeless delusion.

Now it was as if the silence of the Assembly would even deeper, yes, to me it seemed that even
the trees stopped their Blätterlispeln.

And the Blessed One began to talk.

He spoke of the temple, on the steps he stood, and where our ancestors for centuries Krishna had prayed
to by the example of his hero life to a heroic operation and acquiescence on earth encouraged
and strengthened by his grace to be, and then after the death of his joy in paradise to address
and enjoy heavenly bliss there. Now But would we, the descendants of us gathered there to get out
of the mouth of a perfect Buddha to hear the words of truth, to learn to conduct a fair and holy
life, and finally, by complete overcoming any desire for the transitory,
the end of suffering to achieve Nirvana.

He finish, the Buddha, the fully awakened one, the Work of the dreaming God, we completed, the adults,
what our ancestors in childlike raised flocks had begun.

"There you see," he said, "like an excellent artist of bygone days the elephants fight Krishna
has set in stone "- and he pointed to a powerful piece of relief,
almost before my feet lay a corner-drilling in the grass, the other
on a semi-buried capital supported.

In the last heat of the sun, which touched the moss-covered stone, it was recognized more clearly a
- a young man, who, putting his foot on the head of a fallen Ilfen, this Hauer a break.

And the Master then told how the king of Mathura, the terrible tyrant Kamsa after Krishna he had
invited to a competition at his court, in secret, his elephant driver commanded the entrance to
the battlefield the most savage war elephants from his stable on the rush to unsuspecting youth.
But then these killed the monster and, to the horror King, blutbesprengt and the broken tusks
in his hand, entered the arena.

"But on the sublime" - as he continued out - "His enemies had a wild elephant rushed. And the sight
of the onrushing monster the Almighty was seized with pity. For the blood of the animals streamed
from the wounds on the bow down to him the lances of the Hetzer had taught. But still more
pity seized him, because he as a poor, in blind Passion being prejudiced saw before him, endowed
by nature with tremendous courage and strength, but provided with little understanding, and
to that little by the cruelty of wicked men brought, it had placed
in a state of insanity, in which it is now even a Buddha had to kill
- a wild, misguided creature that might succeed is difficult, to gain
by infinitely long hikes priced humanity and the way of salvation
to enter.

In such a way full of compassion all over, could feel no fear of the Almighty, and no consideration
at their own risk could arise in him. Because he wondered, if it I could manage to take even
the smallest ray of light in the stormy darkness, Thus, such light seeds would rise gradually, and when
this creature, through its Ticket headed humanity reached, then it would on earth or the doctrine
of the sublime , Find the slew it once, and this doctrine would help him to salvation.

"Filled with this idea, the Exalted, stopped in the middle of the street rose, soothing hand,
looked lovingly at the tyrant, saying mild words, the sound of the heart of the Wild reached. The
huge Ilf paused in his assault, his mountain-like swaying undecided Head back and forth, rather
than by the thunder roar, which he had previously let hear some almost timid trumpet calls uttered.
He moved his trunk in the air searching for all directions back and
forth - just like a wounded elephant in the forest does when he lost
track of his hidden enemy has and hopes aufzuwittern again - and in
the Indeed, had this to so wrong in his enemies.

At last he came slowly to some steps approach to the sublime, and bent his knees as he was accustomed
to do before his Lord, if it wanted to climb it.

And followed by the tamed elephants, was the Master to shame his enemies into the park, after
which he was just on the go.

"Thus" - as the Buddha concluded that comparison - "the Almighty takes the elephant fight Krishhas
to him spiritual, refined it perfected it! "

As I listened to this tale - as I could think differently than Angulimala,
the Wildest of the Wild, who had only yesterday to kill the Buddha
and the irresistible been restrained power of his personality, so
converted, was so that I did over there now in the ranks of the monks
saw her sitting attentively - even the exterior has become another.

And so because it appeared to me that the words of the sublime were directed particularly at me,
as the only person - at least outside of the circle monk - who knew about this issue and could
understand the secret meaning of the speech.

Continue now the Master of Krishna was speaking as the "sixteen thousand one hundred times the
groom" which honored him as our ancestors were here, and again I had a feeling that this a
secret reference to me would have, because I remembered so, how that night our last meeting, the ugly
old witch, the divine hero with the name had called, I heard not without palpitations. With a faint
touch of humor told the Blessed One then how Krishna took possession of all the treasures that
he made from the had kidnapped castle of the demon king Naraka.

'And on a lucky day,' it says, 'married himself with all the young women at the same time, by
appearing each as her husband. One hundred and sixteen thousand, however, the number of his
wives, and in so many different forms embodied in the God, so that each girl said. I was just chosen
the Lord '

"But if I" - so said the Blessed One - "preach the doctrine and before me a gathering of several
hundred monks and nuns and lay followers of both sexes listening
sits thinks everyone of all these audiences: 'For me, the ascetic
Gautama the doctrine proclaimed.

" Because the individual mind of every peace-seekers do I set up since the force of my mind, bring
it to rest, some of it, add it together.

"I always think it, and this way I take the sixteen thousand one hundred times Groom Krishna to
stand by him mental, ennoble it, perfecting it. "

Since I was now as if the Almighty would have read my thoughts to me and gave me a secret Reference
would be, that I may not be the delusion of a preferred position, a perishable Vanity could
arise in me.

And the Buddha said, now more of them, like Krishna to the faith of our ancestors, although He was in
itself the supreme god who carries the whole world, and receives, but through compassion with
the creature move, came down with a part of himself from his high heaven and to give birth
as a man among men did. But him, the sublime, when after hot rings complete enlightenment, the
blessed, unshakable certainty make it his own salvation had made, came to the desire to remain in the
enjoyment of this blissful serenity and others not to proclaim the doctrine. "For this pleasure-seeking
sex - I thought - is the Sichlosmachen of all the structures, the drying up of the love of life,
understanding the extinction of delusion hardly and from the exposition of the doctrine is
only toil and trouble me grow up. Sun bowed my Mind to seclusion, not to the statement of doctrine.
And then I looked again with the awakened eye in the world.

And as we see in a lotus pond some lotus flowers, which develop in water and stay under the water
level, others up to the water level penetrate and to swim, and finally
individual that emerge above the water and wetted from the water stand:
so I saw the world being a general nature and essence of nature and
noble character of the noblest kind, and I thought: Without hearing
the teaching they get lost: they are the Teaching understand.

And out of sympathy with the beings I decided to undisturbed on the Possession of the blessed
rest of Nirvana and temporarily waive the world to proclaim the doctrine.

"That takes a perfect Buddha Krishna's descent from heaven, and to be a human becoming, verinnigt
it, transfigured it, complete it. "

Then I had a feeling of unspeakable joy, because I knew that the Buddha myself among the lotus flowers
counted that have come out of the water depth to the mirror surface, and that I by its Help raise
me once about it and stand freely would not wetted by the matter.

And the Exalted recounted the heroic deeds of Lord Krishna, by which he for the salvation of the beings
World of demons and evil rulers freed by the serpent of the waters
Koliya defeated, the bull-faceted Aristha demon, killed the devastating
monsters and Dhenuka Kishi and the demon Naraka rulers destroyed the
evil king Kamsa and Paundraka and other bloody tyrant, the horror
of helpless men, defeated and killed, and so on manifold As the unfortunate
plight of the people relieved.

The Blessed One does not fight the enemies threaten from the outside people, but the monsters
in his own heart: greed, hatred and Delusion, self-love, lust desire, thirst for perishable, and
he does not liberate humanity of this and that adversity, but from suffering.

Then spoke of the suffering of the Blessed as always and everywhere life than his shadow follows.
Since it seemed as if a gentle hand would abolish my own love of suffering, took away from me, and
it throws into great suffering in the ground, where it swirls in the general my view vanished.
Radical deeply I felt that I've got no right to permanent happiness, where all . Suffer I had
enjoyed my luck: it was created, had evolved and was passed as the Buddha taught us that all things
take place in this world by a cause and at the end his time - sooner or later - must pass again,
and that this very transience, in which the unreality of everything is unveiled, the last irreducible
Cause of suffering is - irrevocably so long as the pleasure continued existence and always overgrown
unausgerottet New leaves emerge. Yes, like everyone complicit in this world already suffering
through its existence is, I had - it seemed to me - if I had been spared pain, I now Double feel
guilty and feel a desire to bear my part. So I could for lament no longer my own fate, rather,
in his words was the thought in me awake, "Oh, but that all beings
would not have to suffer any longer that the saint be it!

Work of redemption were possible so that they all, all absolved from sin and enlightens, the
end of all suffering reached! "

And from that end of suffering and the world, from the end to every form of existence of the redemption
request in equanimity free from the delusion extinction, now spoke of Nirvana The Master -
strange and wonderful words from the only island in the surging seas of becoming, the death of her
rock surf powerless zerschäumte shore, and after which the teaching of Accomplished as a safe
lead over vehicle.

And he spoke of this blessed place of peace, does not speak as one who tells us what he thinks
about others - heard - of priests has, and not as a singer, his imagination can wander, but
how One, the personal experience and looked communicates.

Much, however, he said this, what I, the uneducated woman did not understand, and what probably
even the most learned would not have been easy to understand, some I could not combine together,
because here was being and not at the same time, not life and yet even less lifelessness. I
was on mute, like one who is a new, much unlike any other Song heard, from which he can understand
a few words while telling him all the sounds into Heart penetrate. And what sounds! Notes of such
crystalline purity that all others it salary, had to seem like empty
noise, sounds from so far away, from such about worldly heights herübergrüßten
that a new, unexpected longing was awakened by which one felt that
she could ever be satisfied by anything earthly or earth like, and
that unsatisfied would never entirely disappear.

Meanwhile, it had become completely overnight. The weak light of the moon, behind the temple
rose, threw its shadow across the entire meadow. Scarcely one could still see the shape the speaker.
These words seemed superhuman herauszutönen from the sanctuary itself, that all the thousands of
wild and tangled lebentäuschenden figures again in his shadow mass
had swallowed and in simple, powerful forms, towered - a tomb of all
earthly and heavenly life.

The hands folded around his knees, I sat there listening and looking up to heaven, where large
Stars above the dark tree tops sparkled. Bright was passing through the celestial Ganga. Then
I thought of that hour, when we were both here in the same place solemnly hands her up and lifted
her silver waves that feed these lotus ponds, we zuschworen, here, in the Paradise of the West, come
again - in a joyous sky, equal to that Krishna, of whom now also spoke of the sublime, as from
the place where the faithful strive. And when I thought I was sad at heart, but I could no desire
in me feel after such a paradise life - for a glimmer of something
higher had infinite My eyes lit up.

XXXVII. PARADISE WELKER

"Yes, my friend," added Vasitthi "without disappointment, I heard those words that you hoffnungsvernichtend
seemed so, as I am now without pain, and even see with delight as around here the truth of these words
become reality. "

While the narrative Vasitthis indeed the withering was slowly but steadily advanced, and it could
not now exist the slightest doubt that all these beings and their environments the fall and
the complete resolution entgegensiechten.

The lotus flowers were like already more than half of their petals, and the water glittered only sparsely
produced between these colorful little boats, each moment in tremor
offset by the falling of a leaf. were sitting on their thrones, the
flowers schmuckberaubten Figures in more or less collapsed positions;
this was the head forward dropped to his chest, that sideways on the
shoulder, and shivering as shot through they do every time a chilly
shudder ran through the tops of the trees have thinned, so that flowers
and leaves rained down. Mr. Southey's defence
(for he has partially anticipated this objection) is that the names are conformable to history
or analogy, which we are not inclined to dispute: but it is not requisite to tread so closely
in the traces of barbarity. Truth does not constitute the essence of poetry: but it is indispensably
necessary that the lines should be agreeable to the ear, as well as to the sense. Sorry, indeed,
we are to complain that Mr. Southey, in attempting a new method of writing,--in professing
to set aside the old models, and to promote his own work to a distinguished place in the library,--has
failed to interest our feelings, or to excite our admiration. The dull tenor of mediocrity,
which characterizes his pages, is totally unsuitable to heroic poetry, regular or irregular.
Instead of viewing him on a fiery Pegasus, and "snatching a grace beyond the reach of art,"
we behold the author mounted on a strange animal, something between a rough Welsh poney and
a Peruvian sheep, whose utmost capriole only tends to land him in the mud. We may indeed safely
compliment Mr. Southey, by assuring him that there is nothing in Homer, Virgil, or Milton,
in any degree resembling the beauties of Madoc.

Whether the expedition of Madoc, and the existence of a Welsh tribe in America, be historically
true, it is not our present business to examine. It is obvious, however, that one great object
of the poem, the destruction of the altars of idolatry, had failed; for it is not pretended
that the supposed descendants of Madoc remained Christians.

We shall now make some extracts from this poem, which will enable our readers to judge whether
we have spoken too severely of Mr. Southey's labours.

[Quotes 270 lines of Madoc with interpolated comments.]

If the perusal of these and the preceding verses should tempt any of our readers to purchase
Mr. Southey's volume, we can warrant equal entertainment in all its other parts, and shall
heartily wish the gentleman all happiness with his poet.--To us, there appears a thorough perversion
of taste, in the conception and execution of the whole; and we are disgusted with the tameness
of the verse, the vulgarity of the thoughts, and the barbarity of the manners. If this style
of writing be continued, we may expect not only the actions of Vindomarus or Ariovistus to
be celebrated, but we may perhaps see the history of the Cherokees, Choctaws, and Catabaws,
versified in quarto. The name of Atakulla-kulla would not be inharmonious, compared with some
of Mr. Southey's heroes. Indeed, a very interesting poem might be founded on the story of Pocahuntas,
as it is detailed by Smith, in his History of the Settlement of Virginia; and if Mr. Southey
should meditate another irruption into the territories of the Muse, we would recommend this
subject to his attention.

It must be remarked that this is a very handsome and elegantly printed book, with engraved
title-pages, vignettes, &c. and had the poet equalled the printer, his work might have stood
on the same shelf with those of our most admired writers.--The Monthly Review.

[Footnote I: Milton.]

CHARLES LAMB

Blank Verse, by CHARLES LLOYD, and CHARLES LAMB. 12mo. 2s. 6d. Boards. Arch. 1798.

Dr. Johnson, speaking of blank verse, seemed to have adopted the opinion of some great man,--we
forget whom,--that it is only "poetry to the eye." On perusing the works of several modern
bards of our own country, we have sometimes rather inclined to the same idea, but the recollection
of Milton and Thomson presently banished it.

We have more than once delivered our sentiments respecting the poetry of Mr. Charles Lloyd.
To what we have formerly remarked, in general on this head, we have little to add on the present
occasion; except that we begin to grow weary of his continued melancholy strains. Why is this
ingenious writer so uncomfortably constant to the mournful Muse? If he has any taste for variety,
he has little to fear from jealousy in the sacred sisterhood.--Then why not sometimes make
his bow to THALIA?

Mr. Lamb, the joint author of this little volume, seems to be very properly associated with
his plaintive companion.--The Monthly Review.

Album Verses, with a few others. By CHARLES LAMB. 12mo. pp. 150. London, 1830. Moxon.

If any thing could prevent our laughing at the present collection of absurdities, it would
be a lamentable conviction of the blinding and engrossing nature of vanity. We could forgive
the folly of the original composition, but cannot but marvel at the egotism which has preserved,
and the conceit which has published. What exaggerated notion must that man entertain of his
talents, who believes their slightest efforts worthy of remembrance; one who keeps a copy of
the verses he writes in young ladies' albums, the proverbial receptacles for trash! Here and
there a sweet and natural thought intervenes; but the chief part is best characterized by that
expressive though ungracious word "rubbish." And what could induce our author to trench on
the masculine and vigorous Crabbe? did he think his powerful and dark outlines might with advantage
be turned to "prettiness and favour?" But let our readers judge from the following specimens.
The first is from the album of Mrs. Jane Towers.

    "Conjecturing, I wander in the dark,
    I know thee only sister to Charles Clarke!"

Directions for a picture--

    "You wished a picture, cheap, but good;
    The colouring? decent; clear, not muddy;
    To suit a poet's quiet study."

The subject is a child--

    "Thrusting his fingers in his ears,
    Like Obstinate, that perverse funny one,
    In honest parable of Bunyan."

We were not aware of "Obstinate's" fun before.

An epitaph:--

    "On her bones the turf lie lightly,
    And her rise again be brightly!
    No dark stain be found upon her--
    No, there will not, on mine honour--
    Answer that at least I can."

Or what is the merit of the ensuing epicedium?

[Quotes 48 lines beginning:--

    There's rich Kitty Wheatley,
    With footing it featly, etc.]

Mr. Lamb, in his dedication, says his motive for publishing is to benefit his publisher, by
affording him an opportunity of shewing how he means to bring out works. We could have dispensed
with the specimen; though it is but justice to remark on the neat manner in which the work
is produced: the title-page is especially pretty.--The Literary Gazette.

WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR

Gebir; a Poem, in Seven Books. 12mo. 74 pp. Rivingtons. 1798.

How this Poem, which appears to issue from the same publishers as our own work, so long escaped
our notice, we cannot say. Still less are we able to guess at the author, or his meaning. In
a copy lately lent to us, as a matter we had overlooked, we observe the following very apposite
quotation, inscribed on the title-page, by some unknown hand:

    Some love the verse----
    Which read, and read, you raise your eyes in doubt,
    And gravely wonder what it is about.

Among persons of that turn of mind, the author must look for the ten admirers who, as he says,
would satisfy his ambition; but whether they could have the qualities of taste and genius,
which he requires, is with us a matter of doubt. Turgid obscurity is the general character
of the composition, with now and then a gleam of genuine poetry, irradiating the dark profound.
The effect of the perusal is to give a kind of whirl to the brain, more like distraction than
pleasure; and something analogous to the sensation produced, when the end of the finger is
rubbed against the parchment of the tambourine.--The British Critic.

Gebir; a Poem, in Seven Books. 8vo. pp. 74. 2s. 6d. Rivingtons. 1798.

An unpractised author has attempted, in this poem, the difficult task of relating a romantic
story in blank-verse. His performance betrays all the incorrectness and abruptness of inexperience,
but it manifests occasionally some talent for description. He has fallen into the common error
of those who aspire to the composition of blank-verse, by borrowing too many phrases and epithets
from our incomparable Milton. We give the following extract, as affording a fair specimen:

[Quotes about 60 lines from the beginning of the fifth and sixth books of Gebir.]

We must observe that the story is told very obscurely, and should have been assisted by an
Argument in prose. Young writers are often astonished to find that passages, which seem very
clear to their own heated imaginations, appear very dark to their readers.--The author of the
poem before us may produce something worthy of more approbation, if he will labour hard, and
delay for a few years the publication of his next performance.--The Monthly Review.

SIR WALTER SCOTT

Marmion; a Tale of Flodden Field. By WALTER SCOTT, Esq. 4to. pp. 500. Edinburgh and London, 1808.

There is a kind of right of primogeniture among books, as well as among men; and it is difficult
for an author, who has obtained great fame by a first publication, not to appear to fall off
in a second--especially if his original success could be imputed, in any degree, to the novelty
of his plan of composition. This was said it has
been said about it. "

"Oh, how true!"

Kamanita cried in a trembling voice - "how very deep and true Who, then, O stranger, made
this excellent statement?

"

"Let it be good, pilgrim.

No matter who did it if you only feel its truth and recognize. "

"How could I not! It contains but a few words the whole sorrow of my life. Had I chose not
already a master, I would be none other than the excellent, from
which these words come to visit. "

"So you have, then, O pilgrim,
a master, to whose teaching you confess you, in whose name are you
moved out? "

"Although I am not, venerable one, pulled out in one's
name, but I thought time alone to achieve the goal. In the
first place, the comparative amount of his past and present merits can only be ascertained
by the uncertain standard of his reader's feelings; and these must always be less lively with
regard to a second performance; which, with every other excellence of the first, must necessarily
want the powerful recommendations of novelty and surprise, and consequently fall very far short
of the effect produced by their strong coöperation. In the second place, it may be observed,
in general, that wherever our impression of any work is favourable on the whole, its excellence
is constantly exaggerated, in those vague and habitual recollections which form the basis of
subsequent comparisons. The playboy

So I lived for in the parents home to Ujjeni .-- This my home town, O stranger, but yes not
less by their merriment and lavish life than joy because of their brilliant Palaces, magnificent
temples and famous all over India. Its wide streets resound in the day the neighing of horses
and trumpeting of elephants against, and by night from the sound
of the Games Enamored by the songs and happy revelers.

Especially enjoy the courtesans Ujjenis an extraordinary reputation. Of the major Courtesans, who
live in palaces, temples to the gods and public gardens to the people donate and in the reception
rooms to poets and artists, actors, noble stranger, sometimes even Prince hits - to the ordinary prostitutes
down they are all of schwellgliedriger Indescribable beauty and grace. At the big festivals, in
elevators and review positions they form the main decoration of flowers resplendent, wimpelumflatterten
streets. In cochineal Clothes, fragrant garlands in their hands, of fragrance is enveloped in sparkling
diamonds, see you then, brother, sitting on their stands or special splendor then draw the lines, with
loving glances, provocative gestures and laughing joke everywhere
the Sinnenglut the pleasure of longing flames poking.

From the revered king, the people worshiped, exalted by poets, they mean "the colorful Corolla
of the towering rock Ujjeni and drag us the envy of less fortunate
neighboring cities to.

Often make guest appearances too, the most eminent of our sites, yes there is even before that
such a royal by a regulation must be restored.

Me, who wanted to drown my life consuming grief was in the hands of these happy Sisterhood of the
golden cup of lust oblivion intoxicating potion willing and abundant out on the lips. Through
my many skills and great knowledge of the fine arts of all kinds, not less of all social games
I was a welcome Guest of the great courtesans, one of which even had its favor put a price
barely be modified so passionately in love with me that she was because of me with a prince fell
out.

On the other hand, I was easily my complete mastery of slang familiar with the streets of prostitutes,
whose company I was on the way earthy enjoyment of life not scorned, and several of which
were devoted to me heart.

So I turned up because deep in the rushing vortex of pleasures of
my native town, and It was, O stranger, a proverbial saying in Ujjeni:
"A man about how the young Kamanita.

"

Now it turned out, however, that bad habits, and even sometimes truck man bring a stroke of luck,
so that the secular-minded people can not easily decide whether he mostly to his good or his
bad qualities owes its prosperity.

Those familiar with the lower prostitutes occurred to me that is invaluable. In the house of my
Father has committed a burglary, and jewels, entrusted to him in large part to estimate were stolen,
in an amount which was to replace almost everything. I was beside myself, because of complete
ruin threatened us. In vain I offered all the knowledge I in the woods I had purchased. After
the way that the underground passage was created, I could probably To say what was attributed to
a kind of thieves, the offender. But even this so- useful hint was useless for the police -
but in the Ujjeni not on a similar level stands as the Hetärenwirtschaft
what may perhaps not be entirely without inner connection.

I have but in a very learned lecture on the love life of the different classes following sentence
is: "The Adventures of Master Police have during the night Inspection to take place and that
the town whores, "- what, in connection with that lecture Vajaçravas' "On the usefulness of prostitutes
to the police Into Place" in the time of the anxious waiting for me to think much.

Now it seems to be yes, but set up in this our strange world that the must bear left for what
the failure of the right. And so it happened here that those lush flower Ujjenis me was the
fruit of which, perhaps because of this richness to yield somewhat
puny guessed Dornenhag of the police could not.

For the good girl than me because of me and my family looked inconsolable threatening emergency,
identified the culprits and forced them by the threat of complete withdrawal of favor, the
Booty issue, so we came off lightly, with loss of the little that already been squandered, and
with a terror that was not for me without good effect.

Through him I was clear from my time and strength of youth-burning useless libertine life shaken.
This had already reached a point where I am either under the yoke had to have the habit completely
bogged down and enslave, or begin to disgust me. The latter effect was now very encouraged
by that experience. I had the poverty me stare into the faces look - the poverty, that life would have been
handed down defenseless to me then unfaithful to leave with all his
expensive pleasures.

Then I remembered that Word of the merchant at the grave Vajaçravas: "If I were so high in favor
with Vajaçravas as Would you, then I have to be in a few years ago the richest man in Kosambi.
"And I decided the richest man in Ujjeni to be, and to this end with all my force to the caravan
trade to relocate.

Whether in the afterlife because my meaning friend and master, Vajaçravas me in my ventures
assistance in person, I dare not decide, though I thought sometimes;
certain is that his words are now belatedly did.

Because of his teaching that I with all the habits and customs of the different predator species
familiar, even in their secret rules was inaugurated, which put me now in the state, without foolish
recklessness Activities carried out, which would never have ventured another. Just such but
I was looking for me from now and gave me no longer from ordinary
travel.

If I put a large caravan to a city led to the for months had other can penetrate, as it were blocked
off because just at the time the strong bands of robbers area had, I found the people so eager for
my goods, that I sometimes these could settle with ten times earnings.

One day my father was now in the morning in my room when I just so busy was to apply paint
to my lips while I was at the same time my servant instructions gave the saddled in the courtyard
outside my window my favorite horse. That had to this time with special Carefully done, and it
should be restrained by a strange device pillows, because I had to
go a Gazellenäugige hold of me in the saddle.

I had, with more friends and girlfriends to visit a public garden arranged.

I immediately wanted to leave my father bring refreshments, but he refused, and when I offered him
my gold box of fragrant bead mouth, he struck out from and took only
a little betel.

I closed it right away, not without some trepidation that he probably plan something serious like.

"I see that you get ready to make a pleasure trip, my son," he said, after He had him taken from
me on the offered seat, "and I may not To blame because you have recently returned from an exhausting
business trip. Where wilt you today, my son? "

"I will, Father, with a few friends and friends into the garden of a hundred lotus ponds ride
where we want to entertain with games. "

"Good, very good, my son! Charming, delightful indeed is the residence in the garden of a hundred Lotus
ponds - deeper shade of the trees and the cooling breeze of the water
load as to stay one.

Also like and thoughtful games are to be commended, because they
deal with the body and mind without them to exert.

I wonder if now the same games are common, which we in my Youth played?

What do you think Kamanita will probably be played today there? "

"It is important to father, who passes through us with his proposal. I know that Nimi will propose the
water spray play. "

"I do not know," said my father.

"No, Nimi it has learned in the south where it is very fashionable.

It fills with water bamboo and splashed each other, and who will
wettest has lost.

This is very funny .-- Kolliya but wants to bring in Kadambakampf proposal. "

My father shook his head:

"That do not I know it."

"Oh, that is now very popular. The players divide into two parties fighting against each other,
and thus help the branches of the Kadambastrauches serve with large, golden flowers as even
magnificent strike weapons. Through the pollen, the wounds are marked so that the judges can then
decide which party wins. The whole thing is very exciting and something dainty. But I intend
to propose the marriage game. "

"This is a good old game," my father said with a striking smile, "and it I am glad that thou
wilt be argued, because the evidence of your convictions. From the game the seriousness of the
step is not too great. "

He smiled smugly back, and I was very creepy mood.

"Yes, my son," he continued, "I come here just to what I now run to you added. You have at your
many merchant traveling through skill and luck our ability multiplied, so that the prosperity of our
businesses in Ujjeni has become proverbial.

On the other hand, you also have the full freedom to enjoy your youth. From the first it follows
that you are well able to set your own budget. From the second that It is now time for you
to to do this and to remember the string of sex weiterzuspinnen. To you, my dear son to do
everything quite easily, I have been in Advance a bride chosen for you. It is the oldest daughter
of our neighbor's Sanjaya, of the great merchant, which has recently reached the marriageable
age. It is therefore as you see, from an equal, respectable and very
wealthy family and has great Annex relatives, both paternal as the
mother's side.

Your body is flawless; She has all of the blackness of the bee, a face like the moon, the eyes of
a gazelle Lamb one of the sesame flower similar to the nose, teeth like pearls and Bimbalippen,
of which a voice as sweet as the sounds of Kokila. Her legs like a pair of heart-warming Pisangstamm,
and adversely affected by the fullness of the hips, her walk has the casual majesty of Ilfen. You
will therefore impossible to argue anything against them. "

I had, in fact, no objection against them, except perhaps that their me so many poetic advertised
charms me completely cold left. And I confess that of all wedding ceremonies me that of the
three nights of abstinence, in which I was the Charter, in accordance with my young wife, nothing
Scharfgewürztes eating, sleeping on the floor and the house fire, entertaining, to preserve chastity,
had been the least troublesome.

An unloved wife, O brother, makes the home was not nice and not the house captivating, and I made
my way from now on, almost willing than before to travel and took
care of me Meanwhile, just to my business.

And I - in order to give the truth be told - at these are not too
scrupulous went to work, but took my concerns without much advantage,
where I saw him, my wealth grew so much that I am a few years the
aim my ambition was close and one of the richest citizens of my hometown
was.

Now I wanted but also as host and family man - as my wife, I had two daughters born - quite
enjoy my wealth and show off especially in front of my fellow citizens with them. I therefore
purchased a large plot in the suburbs, where I did a magnificent pleasure garden and docked at
its center a spacious building with marble colonnades provided house
was.

This property was counted among the wonders Ujjenis, and even the king came to it to visit.

Here I held now fairytale garden parties and were the most abundant banquets. For I was thrown
more and more to the pleasures of the table. The most delicious food that for the year concerned
at all for money have been, had to be on my table, themselves to the daily meals. At that time
I was not, as you see me now, by long Walks through woods and stay lean and emaciated ascetic,
but by flowering corpulence; yes a little belly had begun to round to.

And it was, O stranger, a proverbial saying in Ujjeni: "You eat with him, as in Kaufmann Kamanita. "

XIV THE HUSBAND

One morning I went into the plants with my head gardener to ponder what new improvements to
install would be when my father was riding his old donkey in the yard. I hurried to when you
get to help him, and he wanted to live in the garden, as I believed he came to enjoy the flowers.
He preferred, however, into the first room to connect, and when I
ordered the servants to bring refreshments, he struck out - it ' undisturbed
would talk to me.

Something sinister touch a threat sniffing, I sat next to him at a
low Seat.

"My son," he now began very seriously, "your wife has only two daughters born to thee, and it
is no prospect that they will give you a son. Now it's so very true that the man died miserably,
can not perform for the son of the dead victims.

I blame Do not, my son, "he added, as he did notice that I was a little uneasy; and although
I did not know which I would blame in this trade can earn I thanked him with becoming humility
for his gentleness and kissed his hand.

"No, I blame myself I must, because I am your wife in the election by worldly considerations blind
to family and have goods to be very respected and not enough on the characters. The girl,
now I have for you in the eye, although a few outstanding and by no means wealthy family,
nor can you tell her that what the viewer superficial 'beauty' called nachrühmen not. But it
has a deep-seated and rotated to the right Navel, both hands like feet have Lotus, Jug and Radmal,
her hair is quite smooth, only in the neck, it has two right spiral curls. From a girl that such
signs has to say, even the ways that it give birth to five heroic sons. "

I said I was perfectly satisfied with this view, my father expressed
his thanks for the kindness with which he cared for me, and said I
was ready to bring home the girl immediately.

For I thought, if there must be ...!

"Immediately?" cried my father in terror. "But, my son! Lower your impetuosity, we are so now
in the southern course of the sun.

If this deity occurs in its northern course, and then we reach the half of the month in which
the moon increases, then we want a choose auspicious day to take hand - but probably not -
probably not, my son! What would will we really use all the good qualities of the bride? "

I asked my father to rest easy. I would wait so long, and me at all Points to be guided by his
wisdom, which he praised my obedience, my blessing issued and allowed me that I sent for refreshments.

At
last I approached the not very awaited day, to which all auspicious signs united. The ceremonies
were much more complicated this time, I had full two p.m. Days needed to rehearse all the necessary
spells accurately. What I fear while I take his hand in the house of my father endured, can be
with words hardly describe, I was shaking constantly in fear that I'd not quite a verse correct
or accurate in the movement to which he belonged predictions, like,
for my father had never forgive me.

And I almost forgot about the main thing, because instead of to take her thumb, I reached for
her four fingers, as if I wished that they I should give birth to daughters - but fortunately,
the bride had presence of mind enough to I push the thumb in the hand.

I was completely drenched in sweat, when I finally was able to harness the exit of the bulls while my
bride in the Kummetlöcher the harness comprises a branch from a fruit-bearing Baume thrust.
I said, the relevant half-verse with the knowledge that now Worst to be over. The dangers, however,
were not survived.

Although we reached my house without any one of the small number of accidents at such an occasion
such as lie in wait, on the road would have happened. Before Door arrived, was the bride of three
respectable Brahmanenfrauen change, all within Boys were born, and whose husbands were still
alive, lifted from the car. Everything went as far as good.

But now you can, brother, think my terror when on entering the House of My wife's foot almost touches
the threshold would have. I still do not know where I Determination, took her in my arms to lift
up high, aimed at preventing that would be really touching. After all, such an irregularity was
the process of entering bad enough, and this was that I forgot myself now, with the right foot
first enter. Fortunately, all, and especially my father, the impending contact of the threshold
so shocked that my faux pas was almost entirely ignored.

In the middle of the house I took my wife left on a red bull fur place,
the with the side of the neck to the east and with the hair was up.

Now my father had to a long search and locate with infinite pains, a male child prodigy made it
myself only brothers and no sister - no dead - and had came from
a father who in the same case was to have only brothers, what was
even still by his father - all certified court.

This little boy was now my bride to be placed on the lap. Already stood ready at their side
the copper bowl with lotus flowers growing in the mud, they should give the child in the folded
hands, - as was the Unglücksmenschlein nowhere to be found. Only afterwards, when it was too
late, discovered a servant, that the little the victim bed between the fires and even found
too tempting in the soft grass had rolled until he was almost completely buried in it. Now of
course the victim had new bed layered and served with fresh Kugagras
be cut - which was wrong in itself, yes because the grass must be
cut at sunrise.

This crown of the whole work, letting go, we had brought in with a hastily Contented little boy whose
mother had given birth to sons only. My father was at the failure this measure, which he had
placed so much hope, so excited that I was afraid the impact would
suddenly make his dear life to an end.

Of course he would be under no Also now dead, just not by the ceremonies of the demolition
allerverderblichsten to do. This comforting observation I made at that time but will not start. While
I of terrible Fear had been tortured, I fill the time until the arrival of the boys to spare,
I recited continuously appropriate sayings, it would lead not even a blank pause.

In this hour, but I promised myself firmly that I, what would come to marry, never again would.

After
everything was finally done, I had with my wife - which did no such Paragon of ugliness was, as I
had expected following the recommendation of my father - twelve Nights in complete abstinence
and strict fasting, sleeping on the floor, . Bring This time it was after twelve nights, because
my father said we would prefer too much, for doing too little of the good. And I felt right now,
however painful that I all the while had to do without all my favorite
spicy dishes.

However, even this sample was over, and life went on in the old rut - but with a very substantial
difference. It should now show me that is soon, how justified been my fear of the new marriage
proposal my father was. Well I was immediately so comforted that if you had a wife, also could have
two. But, alas! as I had been mistaken in it!

My first wife had always shown a gentle character, the more the stupidity
violence tended to be too vehement, and also my second wife boasted
to a real female After mild. Thus indeed, O brother, the water and
the house fire them both even charitable Things, but when they meet
on the stove, it's sizzling. And so it has because of that fatal day
at hissed in my house. But as it was only when my second wife I really
the first of those five promised heroic sons gave birth! Now I suspect
my first wife, I would not want to have with her sons and failed to
bring the right offering, to have such a pretext, to marry another;
second one for my wife when she irritated by the first, it was a bitter
mockery to let her not missing over. There was also an ongoing dispute
rank, my first wife claimed as such precedence, while my rose as a
second mother to my son the same claim.

But it should soon get worse.
One day, my second wife fell trembling all over with excitement and
asked me to come, I should send away the first, as this is my trying
to poison son - the boy had in fact get colic, because he had nibbled.
I pointed rebuke, but I hardly had they got rid of when the first
burst in and called her two lambs were no longer sure of their lives,
as long as that infamous Woman in the house would remain - her rival
would grant my daughter out of the way so that the dowry should not
diminish the legacy of her son.

Because it was listed under my roof
no more peace. But our patience is really exhausted, when we
are forced to attend to the black stockings and blue jerkins of the inferior persons in the
train, and to the whole process of turning out the guard with advanced arms on entering the castle.

    'Four men-at-arms came at their backs,
    With halberd, bill, and battle-axe:
    They bore Lord Marmion's lance so strong,
    And led his sumpter mules along,
    And ambling palfrey, when at need
    Him listed ease his battle-steed.
    The last, and trustiest of the four,
    On high his forky pennon bore;
    Like swallow's tail, in shape and hue,
    Flutter'd the streamer glossy blue,
    Where, blazoned sable, as before,
    The towering falcon seemed to soar.
    Last, twenty yeomen, two and two,
    In hosen black, and jerkins blue,
    With falcons broider'd on each breast,
    Attended on their lord's behest.
    'Tis meet that I should tell you now,
    How fairly armed, and ordered how,
      The soldiers of the guard,
    With musquet, pike, and morion,
    To welcome noble Marmion,
      Stood in the Castle-yard;
    Minstrels and trumpeters were there,
    The gunner held his linstock yare,
      For welcome-shot prepared--

    The guards their morrice pikes advanced,
      The trumpets flourished brave,
    The cannon from the ramparts glanced,
      And thundering welcome gave.

    Two pursuivants, whom tabards deck,
    With silver scutcheon round their neck,
      Stood on the steps of stone,
    By which you reach the Donjon gate,
    And there, with herald pomp and state,
      They hailed Lord Marmion.
    And he, their courtesy to requite,
    Gave them a chain of twelve marks weight,
      All as he lighted down.' p. 29-32.

Sir Hugh the Heron then orders supper--

    'Now broach ye a pipe of Malvoisie,
    Bring pasties of the doe.'

--And after the repast is concluded, they have some mulled wine, and drink good night very
ceremoniously.

    'Lord Marmion drank a fair good rest,
    The Captain pledged his noble guest,
    The cup went round among the rest.'

In the morning, again, we are informed that they had prayers, and that knight and squire

    ----'broke their fast
    On rich substantial repast.'
    'Then came the stirrup-cup in course,' &c., &c.

And thus a whole Canto is filled up with the account of a visit and a supper, which lead to
no consequences whatever, and are not attended with any circumstances which must not have occurred
at every visit and supper among persons of the same rank at that period. Now, we are really
at a loss to know, why the mere circumstance of a moderate antiquity should be supposed so
far to ennoble those details, as to entitle them to a place in poetry, which certainly never
could be claimed for a description of more modern adventures. Nobody, we believe, would be
bold enough to introduce into a serious poem a description of the hussar boots and gold epaulets
of a commander in chief, and much less to particularize the liveries and canes of his servants,
or the order and array of a grand dinner, given even to the cabinet ministers. Yet these things
are, in their own nature, fully as picturesque, and as interesting, as the ribbons at the mane
of Lord Marmion's horse, or his supper and breakfast at the castle of Norham. We are glad,
indeed, to find these little details in old books, whether in prose or verse, because they
are there authentic and valuable documents of the usages and modes of life of our ancestors;
and we are thankful when we light upon this sort of information in an antient romance, which
commonly contains matter much more tedious. Even there, however, we smile at the simplicity
which could mistake such naked enumerations for poetical description; and reckon them as nearly
on a level, in point of taste, with the theological disputations that are sometimes introduced
in the same meritorious compositions. In a modern romance, however, these details being no
longer authentic, are of no value in point of information; and as the author has no claim to
indulgence on the ground of simplicity, the smile which his predecessors excited is in some
danger of being turned into a yawn. If he wishes sincerely to follow their example, he should
describe the manners of his own time, and not of theirs. They painted from observation, and
not from study; and the familiarity and naïveté of their delineations, transcribed with a slovenly
and hasty hand from what they saw daily before them, is as remote as possible from the elaborate
pictures extracted by a modern imitator from black-letter books, and coloured, not from the
life, but from learned theories, or at best from mouldy monkish illuminations, and mutilated
fragments of painted glass.

But the times of chivalry, it may be said, were more picturesque than the present times. They
are better adapted to poetry; and everything that is associated with them has a certain hold
on the imagination, and partakes of the interest of the period. We do not mean utterly to deny
this; nor can we stop, at present, to assign exact limits to our assent: but this we will venture
to observe, in general, that if it be true that the interest which we take in the contemplation
of the chivalrous era, arises from the dangers and virtues by which it was distinguished,--from
the constant hazards in which its warriors passed their days, and the mild and generous valour
with which they met those hazards,--joined to the singular contrast which it presented between
the ceremonious polish and gallantry of the nobles, and the brutish ignorance of the body of
the people:--if these are, as we conceive they are, the sources of the charm which still operates
in behalf of the days of knightly adventure, then it should follow, that nothing should interest
us, by association with that age, but what serves naturally to bring before us those hazards
and that valour, and gallantry, and aristocratical superiority. Any description, or any imitation
of the exploits in which those qualities were signalized, will do this most effectually. Battles,--tournaments,--penances,--deliverance
of damsels,--instalments of knights, &c.--and, intermixed with these, we must admit some description
of arms, armorial bearings, castles, battlements, and chapels: but the least and lowest of
the whole certainly is the description of servants' liveries, and of the peaceful operations
of eating, drinking, and ordinary salutation. These have no sensible connexion with the qualities
or peculiarities which have conferred certain poetical privileges on the manners of chivalry.
They do not enter either necessarily or naturally into our conception of what is interesting
in those manners; and, though protected, by their strangeness, from the ridicule which would
infallibly attach to their modern equivalents, are substantially as unpoetic, and as little
entitled to indulgence from impartial criticism.

We would extend this censure to a larger proportion of the work before us than we now choose
to mention--certainly to all the stupid monkish legends about St Hilda and St Cuthbert--to
the ludicrous description of Lord Gifford's habiliments of divination--and to all the various
scraps and fragments of antiquarian history and baronial biography, which are scattered profusely
through the whole narrative. These we conceive to be put in purely for the sake of displaying
the erudition of the author; and poetry, which has no other recommendation, but that the substance
of it has been gleaned from rare or obscure books, has, in our estimation, the least of all
possible recommendations. Mr Scott's great talents, and the novelty of the style in which his
romances are written, have made even these defects acceptable to a considerable part of his
readers. His genius, seconded by the omnipotence of fashion, has brought chivalry again into
temporary favour; but he ought to know, that this is a taste too evidently unnatural to be
long prevalent in the modern world. Fine ladies and gentlemen now talk, indeed, of donjons,
keeps, tabards, scutcheons, tressures, caps of maintenance, portcullisses, wimples, and we
know not what besides; just as they did, in the days of Dr Darwin's popularity, of gnomes,
sylphs, oxygen, gossamer, polygynia, and polyandria. That fashion, however, passed rapidly
away; and if it be now evident to all the world, that Dr Darwin obstructed the extension of
his fame, and hastened the extinction of his brilliant reputation, by the pedantry and ostentatious
learning of his poems, Mr Scott should take care that a different sort of pedantry does not
produce the same effects. The world will never be long pleased with what it does not readily
understand; and the poetry which is destined for immortality, should treat only of feelings
and events which can be conceived and entered into by readers of all descriptions.

What we have now mentioned is the cardinal fault of the work before us; but it has other faults,
of too great magnitude to be passed altogether without notice. There is a debasing lowness
and vulgarity in some passages, which we think must be offensive to every reader of delicacy,
and which are not, for the most part, redeemed by any vigour or picturesque effect. The venison
pasties, we think, are of this description; and this commemoration of Sir Hugh Heron's troopers,
who

    'Have drunk the monks of St Bothan's ale,
    And driven the beeves of Lauderdale;
    Harried the wives of Greenlaw's goods,
    And given them light to set their hoods.' p. 41.

The long account of Friar John, though not without merit, offends in the same sort; nor can
we easily conceive, how any one could venture, in a serious poem, to speak of

    ----'the wind that blows,
    And warms itself against his nose.'

The speeches of squire Blount, too, are a great deal too unpolished for a noble youth aspiring
to knighthood. On two occasions, to specify no more, he addresses his brother squire in these
cacophonous lines--

    'St Anton' fire thee! wilt thou stand
    All day with bonnet in thy hand?'

And,

    'Stint in thy prate,' quoth Blount, 'thou'dst best,
    And listen to our Lord's behest.'

Neither can we be brought to admire the simple dignity of Sir Hugh the Heron, who thus encourageth
his nephew,

    ----'By my fay,
    Well hast thou spoke--say forth thy say.'

There are other passages in which the flatness and tediousness of the narrative is relieved
by no sort of beauty, nor elegance of diction, and which form an extraordinary contrast with
the more animated and finished portions of the poem. We shall not afflict our readers with
more than one specimen of this falling off. We select it from the Abbess's explanation to De
Wilton.

    'De Wilton and Lord Marmion wooed
    Clara de Clare, of Gloster's blood;
    (Idle it were of Whitby's dame,
    To say of that same blood I came;)
    And once, when jealous rage was high,
    Lord Marmion said despiteously,
    Wilton was traitor in his heart,
    And had made league with Martin Swart,
    When he came here on Simnel's part;
    And only cowardice did restrain
    His rebel aid on Stokefield's plain,--
    And down he threw his glove:--the thing
    Was tried, as wont, before the king;
    Where frankly did De Wilton own,
    That Swart in Guelders he had known;
    And that between them then there went
    Some scroll of courteous compliment.
    For this he to his castle sent;
    But when his messenger returned,
    Judge how De Wilton's fury burned!
    For in his packet there were laid
    Letters that claimed disloyal aid,
    And proved King Henry's cause betrayed.' p. 272-274.

In some other places, Mr Scott's love of variety has betrayed him into strange imitations.
This is evidently formed on the school of Sternhold and Hopkins.

    'And Bishop Gawin, as he rose,
    Said--Wilton, grieve not for thy woes,
      Disgrace, and trouble;
    For He, who honour best bestows,
      May give thee double.'

There are many other blemishes, both of taste and of diction, which we had marked for reprehension,
but now think it unnecessary to specify; and which, with some of those we have mentioned, we
are willing to ascribe to the haste in which much of the poem seems evidently to have been
composed. Mr Scott knows too well what is due to the public, to make any boast of the rapidity
with which his works are written; but the dates and the extent of his successive publications
show sufficiently how short a time could be devoted to each; and explain, though they do not
apologize for, the many imperfections with which they have been suffered to appear. He who
writes for immortality should not be sparing of time; and if it be true, that in every thing
which has a principle of life, the period of gestation and growth bears some proportion to
that of the whole future existence, the author now before us should tremble when he looks back
on the miracles of his own facility.

We have dwelt longer on the beauties and defects of this poem, than we are afraid will be agreeable
either to the partial or the indifferent; not only because we look upon it as a misapplication,
in some degree, of very extraordinary talents, but because we cannot help considering it as
the foundation of a new school, which may hereafter occasion no little annoyance both to us
and to the public. Mr Scott has hitherto filled the whole stage himself; and the very splendour
of his success has probably operated, as yet, rather to deter, than to encourage, the herd
of rivals and imitators: but if, by the help of the good parts of his poem, he succeeds in
suborning the verdict of the public in favour of the bad parts also, and establishes an indiscriminate
taste for chivalrous legends and romances in irregular rhime, he may depend upon having as
many copyists as Mrs Radcliffe or Schiller, and upon becoming the founder of a new schism in
the catholic poetical church, for which, in spite of all our exertions, there will probably
be no cure, but in the extravagance of the last and lowest of its followers. It is for this
reason that we conceive it to be our duty to make one strong effort to bring back the great
apostle of the heresy to the wholesome creed of his instructors, and to stop the insurrection
before it becomes desperate and senseless, by persuading the leader to return to his duty and
allegiance. We admire Mr Scott's genius as much as any of those who may be misled by its perversion;
and, like the curate and the barber in Don Quixote, lament the day when a gentleman of such
endowments was corrupted by the wicked tales of knight-errantry and enchantment.

We have left ourselves no room to say any thing of the epistolary effusions which are prefixed
to each of the cantos. They certainly are not among the happiest productions of Mr Scott's
muse. They want interest in the subjects, and finish in the execution. There is too much of
them about the personal and private feelings and affairs of the author; and too much of the
remainder about the most trite commonplaces of politics and poetry. There is a good deal of
spirit, however, and a good deal of nature intermingled. There is a fine description of St
Mary's loch, in that prefixed to the second canto; and a very pleasing representation of the
author's early tastes and prejudices, in that prefixed to the third. The last, which is about
Christmas, is the worst; though the first, containing a threnody on Nelson, Pitt, and Fox,
exhibits a more remarkable failure. We are unwilling to quarrel with a poet on the score of
politics; but the manner in which he has chosen to praise the last of these great men, is more
likely, we conceive, to give offence to his admirers, than the most direct censure. The only
deed for which he is praised, is for having broken off the negotiation for peace; and for this
act of firmness, it is added, Heaven rewarded him with a share in the honoured grave of Pitt!
It is then said, that his errors should be forgotten, and that he died a Briton--a pretty plain
insinuation, that, in the author's opinion, he did not live one; and just such an encomium
as he himself pronounces over the grave of his villain hero Marmion. There was no need, surely,
to pay compliments to ministers or princesses, either in the introduction or in the body of
a romance of the 16th century. Yet we have a laboured lamentation over the Duke of Brunswick,
in one of the epistles; and in the heart of the poem, a triumphant allusion to the siege of
Copenhagen--the last exploit, certainly, of British valour, on which we should have expected
a chivalrous poet to found his patriotic gratulations. We have no business, however, on this
occasion, with the political creed of the author; and we notice these allusions to objects
of temporary interest, chiefly as instances of bad taste, and additional proofs that the author
does not always recollect, that a poet should address himself to more than one generation.--The
Edinburgh Review.

And so of instances in which former poets had failed.

Childe Harolde's Pilgrimage. A Romaunt. By LORD BYRON. The Second Edition. London: Murray,
Fleet Street. 1812. 8vo. pp. 300. Price 12s.

If the object of poetry is to instruct by pleasing, then every poetical effort has a double
claim upon the attention of the Christian observer. For we are anxious that the world should
be instructed at all rates, and that they should be pleased where they innocently may. We are,
therefore, by no means among those spectators who view the occasional ascent of a poetic luminary
upon the horizon of literature, as a meteoric flash which has no relation to ourselves; but
we feel instantly an eager desire to find its altitude, to take its bearings, to trace its
course, and to calculate its influence upon surrounding bodies. When especially it is no more
an "oaten reed" that is blown; or a "simple shepherd" who blows it; but when the song involves
many high and solemn feelings, and a man of rank and notoriety strikes his golden harp, we
feel, at once, that the increased influence of the song demands the more rigid scrutiny of
the critic.

Lord Byron is the author, beside the book before us, of a small volume of poems, which gave
little promise, we think, of the present work; and of a satyrical poem, which, as far as temper
is concerned, did give some promise of it. It had pleased more than one critic to treat his
Lordship's first work in no very courtier-like manner; and especially the Lion of the north
had let him feel the lashing of his angry tail. Not of a temperament to bear calmly even a
"look that threatened him with insult," his Lordship seized the tomahawk of satire, mounted
the fiery wings of his muse, and, like Bonaparte, spared neither rank, nor sex, nor age, but
converted the republic of letters into one universal field of carnage. The volume called English
Bards and Scotch Reviewers is, in short, to be considered, among other works, as one of those
playful vessels which are said to have accompanied the Spanish armada, manned by executioners,
and loaded with nothing but instruments of torture.

This second work was of too sanguinary a complexion to beget a very
pleasant impression upon the public mind; and all men, who wished well
to peace, politeness and literature, joined in the pæan sung by the
immediate victims of his Lordship's wrath, when he embarked to soften
his manners, and, as it were, oil his tempers, amidst the gentler
spirits of more southern climes. Sleep Tönnis immediately thought: "You
is also a woman, and will do me no harm! "He did not hesitate therefore to pursue the singing, take to
the beautiful bird inspected. He ascended the highest hill, and saw From then on some fields
off the Mermaid, sitting on a stone, where they met with a golden comb smoothed her hair and sang
a beautiful song. The youth would have liked more ears to hear the song, which hit him in his
heart like a flame, but when he came nearer, looked he know that this trouble would do so many
eyes to catch the beauty of the Virgin. Certainly had Mermaid coming to the notice, but they did
not flee from him, but what they did otherwise accessible, when people approached her. Sleep Tönnis
was perhaps about ten steps are from her, when he suddenly stood still, undecided whether he
should wait or come nearer. And wonderful! The Mermaid got up from the stones and came toward him
with a friendly face. Offered greetings to the young man's hand and said, "I've been expecting
you here some day, because a significant dream I announced your arrival. You have nowhere to
house the people still Home, where you could go, or where people were good for your shock.
Why you should also of strangers to be dependent, if the parents you have no place in her house?
I know up from an early age and better than people know you because I often go to see you was
up and protection when your reckless arrogance you would spoil. Yes, my Have kept your hands
often fluctuate boat that sank in the depth it is not! Come with me, you shall have Mr. days,
and you shall want for an enjoyable, the desires of your heart only shalt cost you. I will
wait and watch out as my eyeball that neither wind nor rain nor Frost will not harm you something.
"Sleeping Tönnis was still in doubt, he scratched his behind the ears, wondering what he should
reply, and although every word of it virgin like a fire arrow had penetrated his heart. Finally
he asked timidly whether their dwelling far from here is. "We can come swift as the wind there,
if you trust firm I have, "answered the Mermaid. Since falling to sleep, suddenly many speeches
Tönnis one which he had earlier heard from the people of the Mermaid, his heart trembled, and
he asked himself three days to think.


The poem is in the stanza of Spenser--a stanza of which we think it difficult to say whether
the excellencies or defects are the greatest. The paramount advantage is the variety of tone
and pause of which it admits. The great disadvantages are, the constraint of such complicated
rhymes, and the long suspension of the sense, especially in the latter half of the stanza.
The noblest conception and most brilliant diction must be sacrificed, if four words in one
place, and three in another cannot be found rhyming to each other. And as to the suspension
of the sense, we are persuaded that no man reads a single stanza without feeling a sort of
strain upon the intellect and lungs--a kind of suffocation of mind and body, before he can
either discover the lingering meaning, or pronounce the nine lines. To us, we confess that
the rhyming couplets of Mr. Scott, sometimes deviating into alternate rhymes, are, on both
accounts, infinitely preferable. One of the ends of poetry is to relax, and the artificial
and elaborate stanza of Spenser costs us too much trouble, even in the reading, to accomplish
this end. To effect this, the sense should come to us, instead of our going far and wide in
quest of the sense. The splendor of the Mirror of Ice liked him lured farther out on the lake
have, for he was one of the best Schlittschuhlaeufer among the boys of the town.

I raved about for some time, uncertain as I am mannered Lenore my services would like to offer,
but every time I approached, they dodged and hid clearly between the others. The guy just came
back from a trip. "Lenore is ! Turn "it was said, but did not want
to Lore. These observations are by no means designed to apply especially to the
author--the extreme gravity of whose general manner and matter, in a measure covet the dignity
of the heroic line. But it is this discordancy of measure and subject, together with the obviously
laboured rhymes and the halting of the sense, which in general, we think, have shut out the
Spenserian school from popular reading, and have caused a distinguished critic[J] to say, that
the "Faiery Queen will not often be read through;" and that, although it maintains its place
upon the shelf, it is seldom found on the table of the modern library.

Whilst, however, Lord Byron participates in this defect of his great original, he is to be
congratulated, as a poet, but alas! in his poetical character alone, on much happy deviation
from him. In the first place, he has altogether washed his hands of allegory; a species of
fiction open to a thousand objections. In the next place, he is infinitely more brief than
his prototype. And in the third place, he philosophizes and moralizes (though not indeed in
a very sound strain), as well as paints--provides food for the mind as well as the eye--kindles
the feeling as well as gratifies the sense. Thus far, then, we are among the admirers of his
Lordship. But it is to be lamented, that what was well conceived is, from the temperament of
his mind, ill executed; that his philosophy is, strictly speaking, "only philosophy so called;"
that the moral emotions he feels, and is likely to communicate, are of a character rather to
offend and pollute the mind, than to sooth or to improve it. This defect, however, we fear,
is to be charged, not upon the poet, but upon the man, at least upon his principles. But, whatever
be the cause, the consequences are dreadful. Indeed, we do not hesitate to say, that the temperament
of his mind is the ruin of his poem. We shall take the liberty, as we have intimated, of touching
upon these defects as moral delinquincies, under another head; but for the present we wish
to notice them merely as poetical errors.

The legitimate object, then, of poetry, as we have said, is to instruct by pleasing; and, cæteris
paribus, that poem is the best which conveys the noblest lessons in the most attractive form.
If, in reply to this, it is urged that the heathen poets, and especially Homer, taught no lesson
to his readers; we answer, that he taught all the lessons which, in his own days, were deemed
of highest importance to his country. The first object of philosophers and other teachers,
in those days, was to make good soldiers, and therefore to condemn the vices which interfered
with successful warfare. Now be it remembered, that the grand topic of the Iliad is the fatal
influence of the wrath of kings on the success of armies. Its first words are ΜΗΝΙΝ αειδε.
Besides this, the Iliad upholds the national mythology, or the only accredited religion; and
by a bold fiction, bordering upon truth, displays in an Elysium and Tartarus, the eternal mansions
of the good and bad, the strongest incentive to virtue and penalty to vice. Epist. I. 2.

Many of the Odes of Horace had a patriotic subject--his Epistles and Satires, with those of
Juvenal and Persius, were the sermons of the day. Virgil chiefly proposed to himself to exalt
in his hero the character of a patriot, and, in his fictitious history, the dignity of his
country. If the lessons they taught were of small importance or doubtful value, or if they
often forget to "teach" in their ambition to "please," this is to be charged rather on the
age than on the poet. They taught the best lessons they knew; and were satisfied to please
only when they had nothing better to do. In modern times, it will not be questioned that the
greatest poets have ever endeavoured to enshrine some moral or intellectual object in their
verse. Milton calls Spenser "our sage serious Spenser, whom I dare be known to think a better
teacher than Scotus or Aquinas." In like manner, the Absalom and Achitophel, the Hind and Panther
of Dryden, the philosophic strain of Pope, the immortal page of Milton, and the half-inspired
numbers of the Task, are all, in their various ways, attempts of poets to improve or reform
the world. Every species of poetry, indeed, has received fresh lustre, and even taken a new
place in Parnassian dignity, by a larger infusion of moral sentiment into its numbers. The
ancient ballad has arisen to new dignity through the moral touches, we wish they had been less
rare, of a Scott; and the stanza of Spenser has acquired new interest in the hands of Lord
Byron, from the philosophical air which it wears. Numbers without morals are the man without
"the glory." We sincerely wish that the moral tone of his Lordship's poem had been less liable
to exception.

His Lordship, we believe, is acquainted with ancient authors. Let him turn to Quinctilian,
and he will find a whole chapter to prove that a great writer must be a good man. The moon had not yet risen. I needed not long to wait.
The powerful figure Angulimala vaulted over the parapet and came to the bench on which I, half
averted, was sitting.

I did not move, and without raising his eyes from the pattern of colored
marble tiles, I said: -

"What do you want to know, I know everything.

The hour when he pulls away, the strength of his Accompaniment, the direction he is heading, and
ways and paths that he follows. From his driven bad karma, he himself has imposed upon me its
confidentiality, or I know all this not because I never would have coaxed him through hypocritical
tenderness. "

I had thought about these words well, for we are in our foolish pride, that it even now that I
am a handmaiden of a criminal, made for me an intolerable Thought
was to appear lower in his eyes as I was.

No less than other places were my words.

"From all this, you will find but not a word, unless you promise not first, that you kill him
only to torture in any way but will, and that you only him, but none of his kill crew if you
will not have need for self-defense.

I will, however, a place to show where you can meet him alone and without a fatal scuffle. This
so you must promise me with a solemn oath. Otherwise you can kill
me, will But not a word heard from me.

"

"As I was still a faithful servant of Kali," said Angulimala, "so I will certainly no killing
of his companions, and as certainly he will suffer no pain. "

"Well," I said, "I will trust you. Hear me now therefore, and remember
everything exactly.

If you have here in the city stolen, you will have already learned that preparations have been
made be to-morrow to take action against the bandits. But this is
all empty show to up to .

Delude In reality Satagira leaves, followed by thirty horsemen, today, an hour after midnight,
the city through the southern gate, can be left and turn the Sinsapawald a little south of, to draw on
secondary roads through the hills east.

"

And then I gave him a very accurate description of the area up to that narrow gorge through the
Satagira had to come, and where he could kill him easily and safely.

My speech was followed by an oppressive silence, during which I only my own heavy Breathing stopped.
I felt that I still had not strength enough to get up and go away as I had made myself.

Finally spoke Angulimala, and even the mild, even sad tone of his voice surprised me so that
I was startled and almost involuntarily shuddered.

"So would it be so done now," he said, "and you, the soft, gentle woman you certainly never dealt
with will even the smallest creatures have an injury, you would now
in league with the worst of men, whose hands are dripping with blood,
even the murder of your Husband weighing on your conscience and would
be up for his black threads on Karma downhill Track to the hellish
world work on - yes, it would in fact, if you now Angulimala the robber
would have spoken.

"

I did not know whether I should believe my ears. To whom else had I spoken? Was Angulimala
it but the voice, but with that strange change of tone, and I am
now upset and turned it looked sharp, it was beyond all doubt that
chief of the robbers stood before me, even if in his whole attitude
as it were another Character as the put, the day before I had kept
in his terrible curse.

"But do not worry, madam" - he added - ". This is not done nothing Everything is done no more
than if you had addressed your question on this tree. "

These words were to me as enigmatic as the previous ones. But this much I understood that He had
given up for some reason his plan for revenge against Satagira.

After I am through terrible spiritual struggles to the unnatural amount of crime had struggled up, this
was incomprehensible sudden melting away, this spooky volatilization
of the work a disappointment that I could not stand.

The pathological tension of my mind the air was in a stream of insults that I threw Angulimala
face. I called him an infamous scoundrel, a word-break-empty braggart, a coward and god knows
what - the worst thing that would occur to me, for I hoped that this account his irascible man
notorious throughout India, thus tempted me with one blow his iron fist would stretch to the
ground lifeless.

When I said nothing but, rather, because I ran out of breath as the word stock, replied Angulimala
with shameful silence: -

"All this and so disgraceful I have earned from you, and not even the old Angulimala you would have
it, I think so irritating that he would have killed you - because to achieve this is so, how
do I know well, your intention.

But if even now another I would have said something worse, I would have to endure not only quiet,
but He even be grateful that he gave me an opportunity to pass a
salutary check. but the Master himself taught me: 'The earth matter
Angulimala, thou shalt equanimity .

Practice Just as we as the earth throws pure and impure throws, and
the Earth thereat neither shocked nor rebels - that you shall Angulimala,
the earth equal equanimity .

Practice ' Because you say so, Vasitthi, not with the robbers, but with the disciples Angulimala.
"

"What a disciple? What Master?" I asked with a contemptuous impatience, although the strange Language
of this incomprehensible man did not fail, a strange, almost captivating Effect of exercise
on me.

"The call it the Perfect, the world expert, the fully Enlightened One, the Buddha," answered
he, "who is the master. But you have probably already heard of him?"

I shook my head.

"Happy I praise myself," he cried, "that I am, by whose mouth you
first name of the Blessed hearest.

Has Angulimala you once did as the robber much evil, then he'll now
do more good as a disciple.

"

"Who is this Buddha?" I asked again in the same tone, I can not say it to do as much my participation
was awakened .-- "What he has this thy mysterious behavior to do, and what I could bring blessings
for to hear his name? "

"Even just hearing the name of the one they call the welcome," said Angulimala, "is as the first
glimmer of light for those who sit in darkness. But I will now All talk about how he met me
and has turned my life, for certainly is not the the least because of you just happened today.
"

On our first evening had me in spite of the ferocity that flowed from
his being, a certain Propriety of his conduct surprised, but more
striking was the unsought dignity with which he took his seat next
to me, like one who feels by his peers.

XXXIV. THE HELL SPEER

I stand today - he began - a few hours after sunrise at the forest edge and peered Kosambis
over the towers, my revenge on Satagira in mind, and pondering the
question of whether you I probably would bring the desired cloudy:
as I'm on the road from the eastern Gate to the forest, leads a lonely,
aware in a yellow jacket wrapped Wanderer was that strode briskly.

On both sides of the road but were shepherds and country people busy with their work. And
I saw how those who were closest to the road, that lonely wanderer shouted something while
the more distant with her work paused, looked after him and with fingers pointed at him. And
the closest ones seemed him, the further he went forward to warn the more eagerly, even to
try to stop by some ran after him and took his coat, and then with eager and terrified gestures
showed to the wood.

I thought I can almost hear how she shouted: "No more! Do not go in the woods! Yes there lives
the terrible robber Angulimala. "

But those walkers walked on unconcerned, to the forest. And now I looked at his coat and shaved
on his head that it was an ascetic, one of those that the Order of the Sakyersohnes belong to
an old man of impressive appearance.

And I thought to myself: "Wonderful, truly, it is extremely are on the way already ten men, even
thirty and fifty men armed and united and pulled out all come into my power: and here comes
this ascetic alone, as a conqueror approached!

And it annoyed me that he so openly expressed my contempt power. So I decided then, to kill him,
more so than I thought, maybe he was a scout from Satagira sent into the forest. For these
ascetics - I thought - yes, all hypocritical and cheap and can be use to all that by building
on the security they by the Superstitions of the people enjoy - because
I had learned from my friends Vajaçravas learned to look at it.

I decided to quickly grabbed my spear, bow and quiver hung and went to the ascetics, had now entered
the forest, step by step.

But when I had reached a suitable place where no trees separated us, I stopped took the bow from the
shoulder, and shot an arrow so that it the wanderer into the left penetrate the back page and
had to pierce his heart, but he flew over the head of Ascetics there.

"There must have been under my arrows strayed very bad," I said to
myself, took my Quiver at hand and chose a beautiful feathered, impeccable
arrow with which I aimed so that he had to drill through the ascetic's
neck.

The arrow struck but left him in a A tree trunk.

The next flew right past him, and so it went with all the arrows until my quiver was empty.

"Incomprehensible, very interesting!" I thought to myself. "Am I still so often amused to provide
a prisoner with his back against a fence and the arrows so after to shoot him that after he
stepped aside, the whole outline of his body by the signed off on the fence was staked arrows
- and an even greater distance. Am I was used to bring with my arrow the eagle in full flight
from the air. What is missing because today my hand? "

Meanwhile, those ascetic had won quite a head start, and I started
after him to go forth to kill him with spears.

After I told him, but on about fifty paces was at hand, I won him a step from everything, though
I ran with all his might, that ascetic but very room seemed to move
forward.

As I said to myself: "Verily, this is still the most wonderful of
all, I have yet otherwise often sought the elusive Ilfen and the fleet
deer, and then this room border Ascetics, I can now, running with
all his might not catch.

What is missing today because my Feet? "

And I stopped and shouted to him:

"Arise, ascetic!

Arise!"

But he walked on calmly and called back:

"I stand, Angulimala! Arise you too!"

Since I was surprised because again very much and thought: "Apparently, this ascetic just by
any one Wahrheitsakt my arrow shooting thwarted by some Wahrheitsakt
my Running thwarted.

How can he now say that is an obvious untruth, by adding to are maintained,
as it goes but, but prompts me to a halt, although he well see I'm
already so quiet as this tree?

So probably would the flying Gans said the oak, 'I, oak stand!

Get up you too! "

Certainly that is something behind it must .

Insert Well it might be worth more to understand the secret meaning of this Asketenworte to
kill as an ascetic. "

And I called out to him:

"Walking up restive you imagine, ascetic, and me, who thinkest restive,
you walking.

Tell me that ascetic! How you are restive, restless as I am "And he answered me?

"I, of doing to any creature I am suffering, permanent, wander no more, but you, you who rage
against the system must, of restless Leidensort convert to Leidensort. "

I replied again:

"That we should walk more, I have heard well. Understanding of Beständigsein, from night Convert
I did not. Wool, Lord, I explain the short length. See, I have my spear I did and I solemnly swear:
I will give you peace "

"For the second time, Angulimala," he said, "you have sworn falsely."

"For the second time?"

"The first time it happened at that Wahrheitsakt wrong."

That seemed to me now not the least of the miracles that he knew about
that secret thing, but without stop myself, I hastened to defend my
cunning plot.

"My words, Lord, were there certainly made, as it screws on, but with
the Words I swore nothing wrong, but the meaning was täusehend.

But what I swear to you, is both a word such as the sense is true. "

"Not yet," he replied, "for you I can not give peace.

Well you if you you didst give me peace. "

He had turned and waved me friendly to approach.

"Gladly, Lord," I said humbly.

"Listen, then, and give good care!

He sat in the shade of a large tree and told me to take his feet square.

And

he began to teach me about good and evil deeds and their consequences, by me Everything explained
to detail, as one speaks to a child. Because I was quite illiterate, while most are otherwise
Asketenschüler Brahmanenjünglinge that even the Veda . Know But I had so far listened to speeches
never imagined since I at night in woods to the feet Vajaçravas' sat, of which I have already
told you, and you probably otherwise have heard tell of.

But when this ascetic revealed to me that it is not an arbitrary power of gods, but our own heart
merely by his thoughts and deeds can be born to us here and there,
now on earth, now in a sky that soon in hell - I just had to in those
Vajaçravas think, as he proved to us by reasoning and by means of
Scripture, that it could be no punishment, and that all associated
sites in the Holy Scriptures smuggled from the weak and cowardly souls
into it, were the strong and bold to be intimidated by such threats
and thus before the violence of the latter .-- protect "Vajaçravas
friend," I thought, "I was never quite as convincing can.

I wonder if this ascetic is able to? Here is just opinion against opinion, scholars against Scholars.
Because even though this ascetic be one of the great disciples of the Sakyersohnes should, so,
too Vajaçravas was highly praised by his followers, and now, after his Death, he is even from the
common people worshiped as a saint. Who will decide, then, which of these two rather have? "

"You're
not quite to the point, Angulimala," as the ascetic said: "Do you think of those Vajaçravas,
and his heresies. "

I was very surprised at that.

"So for the Venerable also knew my friend Vajaçravas?"

"They showed me his grave, near the gate and I saw there foolish travelers prayer work performed
under the delusion that he was a saint "

"So is he a saint?"

"Well, we do, if you do like it, visit him
and see how he was with his holiness Now go. "

The ascetic said this
as if it were a matter of going from one house to another. Quite I
stared at him shocked:

"Seek Him? Vajaçravas How would that possible?"

"Give
me your hand," he said. "I'm going to sink in that self-depression,
by the steadfast in the heart of the gods and the demons of the visible
path leading be. Since we want to follow because his trail, and what
I see going to see you too. "

I gave him my hand. For a while he
sat silent, his eyes lowered, the pupil inwardly directed, and I felt
nothing. But suddenly it seemed to me as it probably a float willing,
if the demon that dwells in the water, taking his arm and pulls him
down, disappear so that the blue sky and the trees of the shore by
the wave over his head together suggests that nascent and deeper darkness
surrounds him. But sometimes also blazed Flame glow around me, and
mighty roar echoed in my ear.

Finally, I found myself in a vast cavern,
which was quite dark, but by numerous short flashes of lightning lit
up was restless. When I was a little on the dark had used, I discovered
that these flashes were caused by the gleam of iron spear points,
who went back and forth as if spears were wielded by invisible arms
- such as a Ghost battle. Even I heard screams, but not as wild and
courageous struggle of drunken Combatants, but cries and moans of
wounded that I saw not. For this horror sounds came from the background
where the twitching of the spearheads a single shaking and swirling
fog formed. The foreground was empty.

But here were three figures
come from a right opening into the black cavernous mouth as it spat
out. The man in the middle was Vajaçravas, his naked body was shaking
from Head to foot as if he were cold would shake violently or fever.
His companion both had a human torso, but not supported by the birds
legs with strong claws was while he was in the one by a fish head,
and the other from a dog's head was crowned. In the hands of everyone
wore a long spear.

The spoke to the fish head first:

"This, Lord,
is the spear hell where you ten thousand years after the award of
the infernal judge Punishment have to atone by becoming pierced with
spears, these twitching incessantly, - to are reborn, depending on
your other deeds somewhere.

Then said the man with the dog's head:

"As
often cross, venerable one, two spears in your heart, know then that
one thousand years of your agony to have. "

He had scarcely said
this when waving their spears and guard both hell pierced Vajaçravas.

She walks in the light of innocence; in the unclouded sunshine of loveliness and modesty; but
her felicity is transient as the calm that precedes the tempest; and in the very whispers of
her virtue, you hear the indistinct muttering of the distant thunder. She is conceived in the
true master spirit of genius; and in the very instant of her parricide, comes home to our imagination
fresh in the spring time of innocence--hallowed in the deepest recesses of melancholy. But
notwithstanding all these transcendant qualities, there are numerous passages that warrant
our introductory observations respecting the Cockney school, and plunge "full fathom five,"
into the profoundest depths of the Bathos. While, therefore, we do justice to the abilities
of the author, we shall bestow a passing smile or two on his unfortunate Cockney propensities.

The following are the principal incidents of the play. Count Cenci, the dæmon of the piece,
delighted with the intelligence of the death of two of his sons, recounts at a large assembly,
specially invited for the purpose, the circumstances of the dreadful transaction. Lucretia,
his wife, Beatrice, his daughter, and the other guests, are of course startled at his transports;
but when they hear his awful imprecations,

    "Oh, thou bright wine whose purple splendor leaps
    And bubbles gaily in this golden bowl
    Under the lamp light, as my spirits do,
    To hear the death of my accursed sons! Beatrice, in the meantime,
who has been rating her parent for his cruelty, is subjected to every
species of insult; and he sends her to her own apartment, with the
hellish intention of prostituting her innocence, and contaminating, as
he pithily expresses it, "both body and soul." The second act introduces
us to a tête-a-tête between Bernardo (another of Cenci's sons) and
Lucretia; when their conference is suddenly broken off, by the abrupt
entrance of Beatrice, who has escaped from the pursuit of the Count. She
recapitulates the injuries she has received from her father, the most
atrocious of which appear to be, that he has given them all "ditch
water" to drink, and "buffalos" to eat. But before we proceed further,
we have a word or two respecting this same ditch water, and buffalo's
flesh, which we shall mention, as a piece of advice to the author. It is
well known, we believe, in a case of lunacy, that the first thing
considered is, whether the patient has done any thing sufficiently
foolish, to induce his relatives to apply for a statute against him: now
any malicious, evil-minded person, were he so disposed, might make
successful application to the court against the luckless author of the
Cenci, a tragedy in five acts. Upon which the judge with all the
solemnity suitable to so melancholy a circumstance as the decay of the
mental faculties, would ask for proofs of the defendant's lunacy; upon
which the plaintiff would produce the affecting episode of the ditch
water and buffalo flesh; upon which the judge would shake his head, and
acknowledge the insanity; upon which the defendant would be incarcerated
in Bedlam.

To return from this digression, we are next introduced to Giacomo, another of Cenci's hopeful
progeny, who, like the rest, has a dreadful tale to unfold of his father's cruelty towards
him. Orsino, the favored lover of Beatrice, enters at the moment of his irritation; and by
the most artful pleading ultimately incites him to the murder of his father, in which he is
to be joined by the rest of the family. The plot, after one unlucky attempt, succeeds; and
at the moment of its accomplishment, is discovered by a messenger, who is despatched to the
lonely castle of Petrella (one of the Count's family residences), with a summons of attendance
from the Pope. We need hardly say that the criminals are condemned; and not even the lovely
Beatrice is able to escape the punishment of the law. The agitation she experiences after the
commission of the incest, is powerfully descriptive. Pah! I am choaked!

At first she concludes that she is mad; but then pathetically checks
herself by saying, "No, I am dead." Lucretia naturally enough inquires
into the cause of her disquietude, and but too soon discovers, by the
broken hints of the victim, the source of her mental agitation.
Terrified at their defenceless state, they then mutually conspire with
Orsino against the Count; and Beatrice proposes to way-lay him (a plot,
however, which fails) in a deep and dark ravine, as he journeys to
Petrella. At noon day here
    'Tis twilight, and at sunset blackest night."

Giacomo, meanwhile, who was privy to the transaction, awaits the arrival
of Orsino, with intelligence of the murder, in a state of the most
fearful torture and suspence.
                        (a bell strikes)
                    One! Two!

We envy not the feelings of any one who can read the curses that Cenci invokes on his daughter,
when she refuses to repeat her guilt, without the strongest disgust, notwithstanding the intense
vigor of the imprecations

      "Cen. (Kneeling) God!
    Hear me!
      Lucr.
      Cen. (Leaping up, and throwing his right hand toward Heaven)
    He does his will, I mine! This in addition,
    That if she have a child--
      Lucr. Horrible thought!

Ohé! jam satis est!!--The minutiæ of this affectionate parent's curses forcibly remind us of
the equally minute excommunication so admirably recorded in Tristram Shandy. But Sterne has
the start of him; for though Percy Bysshe Shell[e]y, Esquire, has contrived to include in the
imprecations of Cenci, the eyes, head, lips, and limbs of his daughter, the other has anticipated
his measures, in formally and specifically anathematizing the lights, lungs, liver, and all
odd joints, without excepting even the great toe of his victim.--To proceed in our review;
the dying expostulations of poor Beatrice, are beautiful and affecting, though occasionally
tinged with the Cockney style of burlesque; for instance, Bernado asks, when they tear him
from the embraces of his sister,

    "Would ye divide body from soul?"

On which the judge sturdily replies--"That is the headsman's business." The idea of approaching
execution paralyses the soul of Beatrice, and she thus frantically expresses her horror.

      "Beatr. Or to be--
    What?

The author, in his preface, observes that he has committed only one plagiarism in his play.
But with all the triumph of vanity, we here stoutly convict him of having wilfully, maliciously
and despitefully stolen, the pleasing idea of the repetition of "down, down, down," from the
equally pathetic and instructive ditty of "up, up, up," in Tom Thumb; the exordium or prolegomena
to which floweth sweetly and poetically thus:--

    "Here we go up, up, up,
    And here we go down, down, down!"

In taking leave of Mr. Shelley, we have a few observations to whisper in his ear. That he has
the seedlings of poetry in his composition no one can deny, after the perusal of many of our
extracts; that he employs them worthily, is more than can be advanced. His style, though disgraced
by occasional puerilities, and simpering affectations, is in general bold, vigorous, and manly;
but the disgraceful fault to which we object in his writings, is the scorn he every where evinces
for all that is moral or religious. If he must be skeptical--if he must be lax in his human
codes of excellence, let him be so; but in God's name let him not publish his principles, and
cram them down the throats of others. Existence in its present state is heavy enough; and if
we take away the idea of eternal happiness, however visionary it may appear to some, who or
what is to recompence us for the loss we have sustained? Will scepticism lighten the bed of
death?--Will vice soothe the pillow of declining age? If so! let us all be sceptics, let us
all be vicious; but until their admirable efficacy is proved, let us jog on the beaten course
of life, neither influenced by the scoff of infidelity, nor fascinated by the dazzling but
flimsy garb of licentiousness and immorality.--The London Magazine.

ADONAIS. An Elegy, on the Death of Mr. John Keats. By P.B. Shelley.

We have already given some of our columns to this writer's merits, and we will not now repeat
our convictions of his incurable absurdity. On the last occasion of our alluding to him, we
were compelled to notice his horrid licentiousness and profaneness, his fearful offences to
all the maxims that honorable minds are in the habit of respecting, and his plain defiance
of Christianity. On the present occasion we are not met by so continued and regular a determination
of insult, though there are atrocities to be found in the poem quite enough to make us caution
our readers against its pages. Adonais is an elegy after the manner of Moschus, on a foolish
young man, who, after writing some volumes of very weak, and, in the greater part, of very
indecent poetry, died some time since of a consumption: the breaking down of an infirm constitution
having, in all probability, been accelerated by the discarding his neck cloth, a practice of
the cockney poets, who look upon it as essential to genius, inasmuch as neither Michael Angelo,
Raphael or Tasso are supposed to have worn those antispiritual incumbrances. In short, as the
vigour of Sampson lay in his hair, the secret of talent with these persons lies in the neck;
and what aspirations can be expected from a mind enveloped in muslin. Keats caught cold in
training for a genius, and, after a lingering illness, died, to the great loss of the Independents
of South America, whom he had intended to visit with an English epic poem, for the purpose
of exciting them to liberty. But death, even the death of the radically presumptuous profligate,
is a serious thing; and as we believe that Keats was made presumptuous chiefly by the treacherous
puffing of his cockney fellow gossips, and profligate in his poems merely to make them saleable,
we regret that he did not live long enough to acquire common sense, and abjure the pestilent
and perfidious gang who betrayed his weakness to the grave, and are now panegyrising his memory
into contempt. For what is the praise of cockneys but disgrace, or what honourable inscription
can be placed over the dead by the hands of notorious libellers, exiled adulterers, and avowed
atheists.

Adonais, an Elegy, is the form in which Mr. Shelley puts forth his woes.
We give a verse at random, premising that there is no story in the
elegy, and that it consists of fifty-five stanzas, which are, to our
seeming, altogether unconnected, interjectional, and nonsensical. We
give one that we think among the more comprehensible.
    Have sunk extinct in their refulgent prime;
      And some yet live," &c.----

Now what is the meaning of this, or of any sentence of it, except indeed that horrid blasphemy
which attributes crime to the Great Author of all virtue! The rest is mere empty absurdity.
If it were worth our while to dilate on the folly of the production, we might find examples
of every species of the ridiculous within those few pages.

Mr. Shelley summons all kinds of visions round the grave of this young man, who, if he has
now any feeling of the earth, must shrink with shame and disgust from the touch of the hand
that could have written that impious sentence. These he classifies under names, the greater
number as new we believe to poetry as strange to common sense.

Let our readers try to imagine these weepers, and close with "blind Pleasure led," by what?
"by the light of her own dying smile--instead of eyes!!!"

We give some specimens of Mr. S.'s

                Nonsense--pastoral.
                Nonsense--physical.
    --"for whose disdain she (Echo) pin'd away
    Into a shadow of all sounds!"
                Nonsense--vermicular.
    "Flowers springing from the corpse
    ----------------------illumine death
    And mock the merry worm that wakes beneath."
                Nonsense--pathetic.
      "Alas! that all we lov'd of him should be
      But for our grief, as if it had not been,
    And grief itself be mortal! WOE IS ME!"
                Nonsense--nondescript.
      "In the death chamber for a moment Death,
    Blush'd to annihilation!"
                Nonsense--personal.

We have some idea that this fragment of character is intended for Mr. Shelley himself. It closes
with a passage of memorable and ferocious blasphemy:--

      ---------------"He with a sudden hand
    Made bare his branded and ensanguin'd brow,
    Which was like Cain's or CHRIST'S!!!"

What can be said to the wretched person capable of this daring profanation. The name of the
first murderer--the accurst of God--brought into the same aspect image with that of the Saviour
of the World! We are scarcely satisfied that even to quote such passages may not be criminal.
The subject is too repulsive for us to proceed even in expressing our disgust for the general
folly that makes the Poem as miserable in point of authorship, as in point of principle. We
know that among a certain class this outrage and this inanity meet with some attempt at palliation,
under the idea that frenzy holds the pen. That any man who insults the common order of society,
and denies the being of God, is essentially mad we never doubted. But for the madness, that
retains enough of rationality to be wilfully mischievous, we can have no more lenity than for
the appetites of a wild beast. The poetry of the work is contemptible--a mere collection of
bloated words heaped on each other without order, harmony, or meaning; the refuse of a schoolboy's
common-place book, full of the vulgarisms of pastoral poetry, yellow gems and blue stars, bright
Phoebus and rosy-fingered Aurora; and of this stuff is Keats's wretched Elegy compiled.

We might add instances of like incomprehensible folly from every stanza. A heart keeping, a
mute sleep, and death feeding on a mute voice, occur in one verse (page 8); Spring in despair
"throws down her kindling buds as if she Autumn were," a thing we never knew Autumn do with
buds of any sort, the kindling kind being unknown to our botany; a green lizard is like an
unimprisoned flame, waking out of its trance (page 13). In the same page the leprous corpse
touched by the tender spirit of Spring, so as to exhale itself in flowers, is compared to "incarnations
of the stars, when splendour is changed to fragrance!!!" Urania (page 15) wounds the "invisible
palms" of her tender feet by treading on human hearts as she journeys to see the corpse. Page
22, somebody is asked to "clasp with panting soul the pendulous earth," an image which, we
take it, exceeds that of Shakespeare, to "put a girdle about it in forty minutes."

It is so far a fortunate thing that this piece of impious and utter absurdity can have little
circulation in Britain. The copy in our hands is one of some score sent to the Author's intimates
from Pisa, where it has been printed in a quarto form "with the types of Didot," and two learned
Epigraphs from Plato and Moschus. Solemn as the subject is, (for in truth we must grieve for
the early death of any youth of literary ambition,) it is hardly possible to help laughing
at the mock solemnity with which Shelley charges the Quarterly Review for having murdered his
friend with--a critique![N] If criticism killed the disciples of that school, Shelley would
not have been alive to write an Elegy on another:--but the whole is most farcical from a pen
which on other occasions, has treated of the soul, the body, life and death agreeably to the
opinions, the principles, and the practice of Percy Bysshe Shelley.--The Literary Gazette.

[Footnote M: Though there is no Echo and the mountains are voiceless, the woodmen, nevertheless,
in the last line of this verse hear "a drear murmur between their Songs!!"]

[Footnote N: This would have done excellently for a coroner's inquest like that on Honey, which
lasted thirty days, and was facetiously called the "Honey-moon."]

JOHN KEATS

Endymion: A Poetic Romance. By John Keats. London. 1818. pp. 207.

    'So plenteously all weed-hidden roots.'--p. 6.

    'Of some strange history, potent to send.'--p. 18.

    'Before the deep intoxication.'--p. 27.

    'Her scarf into a fluttering pavilion.'--p. 33.

    'The stubborn canvass for my voyage prepared--.'--p. 39.

COCKNEY SCHOOL OF POETRY.

No[.] IV.

    ------------------------------OF KEATS,
    THE MUSES' SON OF PROMISE, AND WHAT FEATS
    HE YET MAY DO, &C.

CORNELIUS WEBB.

Of all the manias of this mad age, the most incurable as well as the most common, seems to
be no other than the Metromanie. The just celebrity of Robert Burns and Miss Baillie has had
the melancholy effect of turning the heads of we know not how many farm-servants and unmarried
ladies; our very footmen compose tragedies, and there is scarcely a superannuated governess
in the island that does not leave a roll of lyrics behind her in her band-box. To witness the
disease of any human understanding, however feeble, is distressing; but the spectacle of an
able mind reduced to a state of insanity is of course ten times more afflicting. It is with
such sorrow as this that we have contemplated the case of Mr John Keats. This young man appears
to have received from nature talents of an excellent, perhaps even of a superior order--talents
which, devoted to the purposes of any useful profession, must have rendered him a respectable,
if not an eminent citizen. But all has been undone by a sudden attack of the malady to which
we have alluded. Whether Mr John had been sent home with a diuretic or composing draught to
some patient far gone in the poetical mania, we have not heard. This much is certain, that
he has caught the infection, and that thoroughly. For some time we were in hopes, that he might
get off with a violent fit or two; but of late the symptoms are terrible. Time, firm treatment,
and rational restraint, do much for many apparently hopeless invalids; and if Mr Keats should
happen, at some interval of reason, to cast his eye upon our pages, he may perhaps be convinced
of the existence of his malady, which, in such cases, is often all that is necessary to put
the patient in a fair way of being cured.

The readers of the Examiner newspaper were informed, some time ago, by a solemn paragraph,
in Mr Hunt's best style, of the appearance of two new stars of glorious magnitude and splendour
in the poetical horizon of the land of Cockaigne. One of these turned out, by and by, to be
no other than Mr John Keats. This precocious adulation confirmed the wavering apprentice in
his desire to quit the gallipots, and at the same time excited in his too susceptible mind
a fatal admiration for the character and talents of the most worthless and affected of all
the versifiers of our time. One of his first productions was the following sonnet, "written
on the day when Mr Leigh Hunt left prison." It will be recollected, that the cause of Hunt's
confinement was a series of libels against his sovereign, and that its fruit was the odious
and incestuous "Story of Rimini."

    "What though, for shewing truth to flattered state,
    Kind Hunt was shut in prison, yet has he,
    In his immortal spirit been as free
    As the sky-searching lark and as elate.
    Minion of grandeur! think you he did wait?
    Think you he nought but prison walls did see,
    Till, so unwilling, thou unturn'dst the key?
    Ah, no! far happier, nobler was his fate!
    In Spenser's halls! he strayed, and bowers fair,
    Culling enchanted flowers; and he flew
    With daring Milton! through the fields of air;
    To regions of his own his genius true
    Took happy flights. Who shall his fame impair
    When thou art dead, and all thy wretched crew?"

The absurdity of the thought in this sonnet is, however, if possible, surpassed in another,
"addressed to Haydon" the painter, that clever, but most affected artist, who as little resembles
Raphael in genius as he does in person, notwithstanding the foppery of having his hair curled
over his shoulders in the old Italian fashion. In this exquisite piece it will be observed,
that Mr Keats classes together WORDSWORTH, HUNT, and HAYDON, as the three greatest spirits
of the age, and that he alludes to himself, and some others of the rising brood of Cockneys,
as likely to attain hereafter an equally honourable elevation. Wordsworth and Hunt! what a
juxta-position! The purest, the loftiest, and, we do not fear to say it, the most classical
of living English poets, joined together in the same compliment with the meanest, the filthiest,
and the most vulgar of Cockney poetasters. No wonder that he who could be guilty of this should
class Haydon with Raphael, and himself with Spencer [sic].

    "Great spirits now on earth are sojourning;
    He of the cloud, the cataract, the lake,
    Who on Helvellyn's summit, wide awake,
    Catches his freshness from Archangel's wing:
    He of the rose, the violet, the spring,
    The social smile, the chain for Freedom's sake:
    And lo!--whose steadfastness would never take
    A meaner sound than Raphael's whispering.
    And other spirits there are standing apart
    Upon the forehead of the age to come;
    These, these will give the world another heart,
    And other pulses. Hear ye not the hum
    Of mighty workings?----
    Listen awhile ye nations, and be dumb."

The nations are to listen and be dumb! and why, good Johnny Keats? because Leigh Hunt is editor
of the Examiner, and Haydon has painted the judgment of Solomon, and you and Cornelius Webb,
and a few more city sparks, are pleased to look upon yourselves as so many future Shakespeares
and Miltons! The world has really some reason to look to its foundations! Here is a tempestas
in matulâ with a vengeance. At the period when these sonnets were published Mr Keats had no
hesitation in saying that he looked on himself as "not yet a glorious denizen of the wide heaven
of poetry," but he had many fine soothing visions of coming greatness, and many rare plans
of study to prepare him for it. The following we think is very pretty raving.

              "Why so sad a moan?
    Life is the rose's hope while yet unblown;
    The reading of an ever-changing tale;
    The light uplifting of a maiden's veil;
    A pigeon tumbling in clear summer air;
    A laughing school-boy, without grief or care,
    Riding the springing branches of an elm.

    "O for ten years, that I may overwhelm
    Myself in poesy; so I may do the deed
    That my own soul has to itself decreed.
    Then will I pass the countries that I see
    In long perspective, and continually
    Taste their pure fountains. First the realm I'll pass
    Of Flora, and old Pan: sleep in the grass,
    Feed on apples red, and strawberries,
    And choose each pleasure that my fancy sees.
    Catch the white-handed nymphs in shady places,
    To woo sweet kisses from averted faces,--
    Play with their fingers, touch their shoulders white
    Into a pretty shrinking with a bite
    As hard as lips can make it: till agreed,
    A lovely tale of human life we'll read.
    And one will teach a tame dove how it best
    May fan the cool air gently o'er my rest;
    Another, bending o'er her nimble tread,
    Will set a green robe floating round her head,
    And still will dance with ever varied ease,
    Smiling upon the flowers and the trees:
    Another will entice me on, and on
    Through almond blossoms and rich cinnamon;
    Till in the bosom of a leafy world
    We rest in silence, like two gems upcurl'd
    In the recesses of a pearly shell."

Having cooled a little from this "fine passion," our youthful poet passes very naturally into
a long strain of foaming abuse against a certain class of English Poets, whom, with Pope at
their head, it is much the fashion with the ignorant unsettled pretenders of the present time
to undervalue. Begging these gentlemens' pardon, although Pope was not a poet of the same high
order with some who are now living, yet, to deny his genius, is just about as absurd as to
dispute that of Wordsworth, or to believe in that of Hunt. Above all things, it is most pitiably
ridiculous to hear men, of whom their country will always have reason to be proud, reviled
by uneducated and flimsy striplings, who are not capable of understanding either their merits,
or those of any other men of power--fanciful dreaming tea-drinkers, who, without logic enough
to analyze a single idea, or imagination enough to form one original image, or learning enough
to distinguish between the written language of Englishmen and the spoken jargon of Cockneys,
presume to talk with contempt of some of the most exquisite spirits the world ever produced,
merely because they did not happen to exert their faculties in laborious affected descriptions
of flowers seen in window-pots, or cascades heard at Vauxhall; in short, because they chose
to be wits, philosophers, patriots, and poets, rather than to found the Cockney school of versification,
morality and politics, a century before its time. After blaspheming himself into a fury against
Boileau, &c. Mr Keats comforts himself and his readers with a view of the present more promising
aspect of affairs; above all, with the ripened glories of the poet of Rimini. Addressing the
manes of the departed chiefs of English poetry, he informs them, in the following clear and
touching manner, of the existence of "him of the Rose," &c.

              "From a thick brake,
    Nested and quiet in a valley mild,
    Bubbles a pipe; fine sounds are floating wild
    About the earth. Happy are ye and glad."

From this he diverges into a view of "things in general." We smile when we think to ourselves
how little most of our readers will understand of what follows.

    "Yet I rejoice: a myrtle fairer than
    E'er grew in Paphos, from the bitter weeds
    Lifts its sweet head into the air, and feeds
    A silent space with ever sprouting green.
    All tenderest birds there find a pleasant screen,
    Creep through the shade with jaunty fluttering,
    Nibble the little cupped flowers and sing.
    Then let us clear away the choaking thorns
    From round its gentle stem; let the young fawns,
    Yeaned in after times, when we are flown,
    Find a fresh sward beneath it, overgrown
    With simple flowers: let there nothing be
    More boisterous than a lover's bended knee;
    Nought more ungentle than the placid look
    Of one who leans upon a closed book;
    Nought more untranquil than the grassy slopes
    Between two hills. All hail delightful hopes!
    As she was wont, th' imagination
    Into most lovely labyrinths will be gone,
    And they shall be accounted poet kings
    Who simply tell the most heart-easing things.
    O may these joys be ripe before I die.
    Will not some say that I presumptuously
    Have spoken? that from hastening disgrace
    'Twere better far to hide my foolish face?
    That whining boyhood should with reverence bow
    Ere the dreadful thunderbolt could reach? How!
    If I do hide myself, it sure shall be
    In the very fane, the light of poesy."

From some verses addressed to various amiable individuals of the other sex, it appears, notwithstanding
all this gossamer-work, that Johnny's affections are not entirely confined to objects purely
etherial. Take, by way of specimen, the following prurient and vulgar lines, evidently meant
for some young lady east of Temple-bar.

              "Add too, the sweetness
    Of thy honied voice; the neatness
    Of thine ankle lightly turn'd:
    With those beauties, scarce discern'd,
    Kept with such sweet privacy,
    That they seldom meet the eye
    Of the little loves that fly
    Round about with eager pry.
    Saving when, with freshening lave,
    Thou dipp'st them in the taintless wave;
    Like twin water lilies, born
    In the coolness of the morn
    O, if thou hadst breathed then,
    Now the Muses had been ten.
    Couldst thou wish for lineage higher
    Than twin sister of Thalia?
    At last for ever, evermore,
    Will I call the Graces four." What I say - in an hour - it is only half an hour until then, the girl
said, if you do not go through the main streets, but by the Alleys and courtyards runs to the
west gate ... I can think of no's! I burn the floor under your feet - good-bye, brother! You
have been kind to me and I will not fail also to lead you to the sublime - but now I can truly not a
moment . Reside "

And the pilgrims Kamanita rushed out of the hall and then ran the streets as quickly he wanted
to wear the legs only. But when he reached the city gate Rajagahas, it was still not open,
and he had to wait a little while, which seemed to him like an eternity and his impatience
increased to the highest.

However, he used the time to an old woman, a basket full of vegetables after City and was, as
he himself had to wait there, exact information about the shortest path collect - as by those
streets, right next to a temple and a fountain must pass and then a tower so should not lose
sight of, so that he could obtain outside the city walls lost time,
perhaps within the same.

Now when the door had opened, he rushed him inexorably in the direction indicated continued.
Sometimes he ran a couple of children overboard, bumped a woman on the curb Dishes washed, so
that a bowl of them rolled their clanking and broke, or he came together with a water carrier.
But the abuse that herflogen behind him, reached closed ears, so
he was quite satisfied by the one thought that he would soon, very
soon see the Buddha would.

"What happiness!" he said to himself. "How many families live there, without a Buddha in the world with
their travels together, and of the gender that a Buddha to Contemporaries has - oh how few
there who see it!

But to me this happiness is now certain - Always I'm so afraid that in the vast and dangerous way wild
animals or robbers me to this could bring good luck, but now I can no longer be robbed! "

As he thought thus, he had turned into a very narrow alleys. In his foolish storming ahead he
did not see that from the other end a cow for some reason become afraid was rushed towards him,
not even noticed how a few people before him in a hurry House fled,
and others took shelter behind a projecting piece of wall, he heard
not the reputation by which a woman standing on an upper chamber wanted
to warn him - he just looked up to the tower battlements, it should
prevent the miss of the road.

Not until it was too late for evasive action, he looked horrified,
just prior to the steaming nostrils, with blood-shot eyes and bright
horn that he immediately thereafter in the deep Page penetrated.

With a loud cry he fell down from the wall. The cow fell further and disappeared in another street.

Immediately
rushed now bring people, partly out of curiosity, partly to help. The woman whom he warned had
brought water to clean the wound.

They tore his coat to give it a bandage to create and possibly the blood thirst that burst
forth like a fountain.

Kamanita had almost lost consciousness for a moment.

He was immediately clear that This meant his death. But neither this idea nor the pains tormented
him so much as the fear that he would get the Buddha now not seen. With trembling voice he
pleaded to the bystanders, it's account under the mango grove to the Buddha:

"As far as I'm on pilgrimage, good people - I was so close to the target O have pity! with me, do
not hesitate to take me there! Forget about the pain, fear not, that I would be lying - I will not die
before you tell me the Buddha's feet have resigned, and then I'll die happy, blessed resurrection.
"

Some were now to fetch sticks and a mattress.

A woman brought a fortifying drink, Kamanita a few spoonfuls of the sympathetic. The men were
divided, which way to the meeting hall in mango groves in the shortest, as it probably could
be arriving at each step. For there was any clear that the Pilgrims came to an end soon.

"There are disciples of the Accomplished!" cried one of the bystanders, the streets hinanzeigend,
"the be able to tell us the best. "

Really, some monks were approaching from the Order of the Buddha, wrapped in yellow coats, the Right
Ann were free, and the begging bowl in hand. Most were young people; first place, but walked two
venerable figures, an old man, whose earnest, somewhat austere Face
with the piercing eyes and strong chin involuntary attention to be
diverted, and a middle-aged man, whose features of such a heart-winning
Mild clear that he almost got by the look of a young man.

Also, an experienced Observers in his bearing and in the more lively movements, as in the fiery
glances, the inalienable characteristics of the warrior caste discover, while the deliberate
silence of the elderly the born Brahmin betrayed. On tall and princely decorum but both came to
each other equal.

When these monks in the group that had formed around the wounded man,
halted, told them many loquacious tongues at once what had happened,
and that in one term is, these pilgrims wounded on a stretcher - that
was just brought - to the mango groves to contribute to the Buddha,
to thereby fulfill his burning desire, - whether or not one of the
would return younger monks to show them the shortest way to the spot
where the Blessed One was staying in the moment?

"The Blessed One," replied the old man with the stern face, "is not
in the mango groves, and we do not yet see where he is.

"

If this answer escaped a desperate moan, the sore breast Kamanita.

"But of course it can not be far from here," added the younger.

"The Blessed One has yesterday sent before the monastic community and is just gone. He will probably too
late and be somewhere, perhaps in the suburbs has returned. We are now on the road, to find
him. "

"Oh, seek, and eager to find him!" Kamanita cried.

"If we knew well, where the sublime is, but it would not, who added
that the wounded," said the stern monk.

"After the shock on the stretcher would quickly his condition Aggravate
and even if he stands on, he would arrive but dying, and his Spirit
would not be able to understand the words of the sublime.

But if he is now is spared, and treated by a qualified surgeon and
cared for, then it there is still hope that he can get as much power
to the speech of the Sublime to listen.

But Kamanita was impatient for the grave:

"No time - die - take me
- take - - see it - touch - make haste die happy!"

Shrugging, the monk turned to the younger brothers:

"This poor man has perfected the victory for an idol, at whose touch
you is absolved.

"

"He has confidence taken to the complete, Sariputta if him a deeper understanding missing, "said the
other, and leaned over the wounded to determine the extent of its powers; "You could risk it all. I
am sorry for the poor, and I think one can not help him Better do that than to make the attempt. "

A grateful look of the pilgrim rewarded him for his intercession.

"As you please, Ananda," replied Sariputta friendly.

At this moment came from the side from which also came Kamanita, a
potter gone, who carried on his back a basket with all kinds of pottery.

When he the pilgrim Kamanita remarked, the cause is to just very carefully, but not without
him severe pain, had placed on the stretcher, he stood shocked -
and so suddenly that the piled Bowls, which he wore on his head, fell
to the ground and broke.

"Ye gods, what then has happened here? That's the pious pilgrim, my hall has done to the honor
of staying there. In the company of a monk of the same Garment was
how this venerable, he has spent the night at my house.

"

"The monk and an old man of tall stature War?" asked Sariputta.

"Certainly, Lord - and he seemed to me you do not own to be dissimilar."

Since the monks knew that they needed to look no longer, and that
the Master in Home of the potter was.

For "the disciple who is similar to the master" - so, yes Sariputta
was called.

"Is it possible?" Ananda said, looking up from the wounded man, who through the pain, which had caused him
the raising has become almost unconscious and was the arrival of
the potter had not even noticed .-- "Is it possible?

This poor man had the happiness to which he so eagerly seeks, enjoyed the whole night, without
knowing in the least? "

"This is the kind of a fool," said Sariputta.

"But we go and now he can hinge forward to be. "

"One moment!"

Ananda said, "the pain overwhelmed him."

In fact, showed the blank look Kamanita that he hardly noticed what
was going on around him.

It started to him to be black before my eyes. But the long strips of the morning sky, the above illuminated
between the high walls pierced, but still up and liked by his consciousness appear to him as well the
night sky by crossing the Milky Way. His lips moved:

"The Ganga -," he muttered.

"His senses wander," said Ananda.

The first standing, who had heard the word, sees it differently.

"He wishes now to be brought to the Ganga to the holy waves wash his
sins .-- But Mother Ganga is so far from here - who could probably
take him away "?

"It was the Buddha, then the Ganga" - muttered Sariputta with the semi-contemptuous pity of the
Assign a fool over that falls hopelessly from one superstition to another.

But suddenly the lively eyes Kamanita wonderful. A blissful smile brightened his Trains. His
body was erect. Ananda supported him.

"The heavenly Ganga," he whispered in a weak, but cheerful voice, and showed the right hand to
the strip of sky above his head: "The heavenly Ganga - we vowed -
on their shafts - Vasitthi - "

His body was trembling, blood was pouring from his mouth, and he died in the arms of Ananda .--

Hardly
half an hour later came Sariputta and Ananda, accompanied by monks,
in the Hall of the potter one, welcomed the sublime respectfully and
sat him on the side.

"Well, my dear Sariputta," since asked the Blessed One, after he summoned them friendly greeting
- "has The young monk community under your leadership the vast migration went well and without
any accidents? Do you have lack of food or medicine for the sick had the go? If the discipleship
studiously happy? "

"I am happy to be able to say most venerable, that it was missing
nothing, and that The young monks full of zeal and confidence, only
to yearn after, the sublime face to see to face.

This noble young men, connoisseurs of the word, the successor to
the doctrine have, I brought to them already imagine the Master.

"

At these words, raised three young monks and welcomed the sublime with folded Hands:

"Hail to the sublime, the perfect Buddha - Heil!"

"You are welcome," the Buddha said and invited her with a gesture back to sit one.

"And is the Almighty," said Ananda, "after yesterday's walk without fatigue or well ill effects arrived
here? And the Master has spent fairly in this hall the night? "

"So it is, brothers am. I at dusk, although very tired, but with no ill effects the walk and I
arrived here in the company of a foreign pilgrim night not just badly spent. "

"This pilgrimage," and took Sariputta the word, "is in the streets Rajagahas by a cow Life
has been robbed. "

"And not knowing with whom he had spent the night here," added Ananda, "sought He longed to be brought
to the foot of the sublime. "

"Soon thereafter, however, he demanded that you want to carry him
to the Ganga," said Sariputta.

"Not so, brother Sariputta" - corrected Ananda. "For he spoke of the celestial Ganga. Luminous
gaze, he thought of an oath, and called it a woman's name - Vasitthi
I believe - and so he died.

"

"At some walked a woman's name on his lips, he departed from," said Sariputta .-- "Where is he
probably came into existence again? "

"Foolish, young men, the pilgrim Kamanita an unreasonable child was
similar.

This Pilgrims, young men who went about in my name, and profess the doctrine of the sublime
wish I had set out the theory in detail and in depth. And he added impetus to the teaching taken.
On happiness and heaven delights was the longing and striving of his heart directed. The pilgrim
Kamanita, my disciples, is in Sukhavati, in the Paradise of the West, back into existence
came to enjoy a thousand and a thousand years of heaven delights. "

XXII. THE PARADISE OF THE WEST

When the Blessed One in the hall of the potter to Rajagaha spoke these
words awoke the pilgrims Kamanita in the Paradise of the West.

Dressed in a red coat, the soft and shiny as a petal in rich folds gushed about him, he found
himself with folded Legs, on a powerful, like-colored lotus flower
sitting the middle of a large Swimming pools. were on the wide expanse
of water seen everywhere these lotus flowers, red, blue and white,
some still buds than others, although quite developed, but still closed
but open as to his countless, and almost every one was enthroned a
human Figure whose wrinkled dress up the petals seemed to grow out.

On the sloping banks of the pond, in the greenest grass, laughed of
flowers, as if all the gems the earth would be reborn here in flower
shape, illuminated by its brilliance and its colors retained, but
the hard shell, which they carried in their earthly life, against
the soft, cuddly, living plant cell walls exchange.

Such was also the fragrance they exhaled, mightier than the glorious
essence, each enclosed in a crystal bottle was, and yet had all the
savory freshness of the natural flower fragrance.

From this intriguing Ufersaum now the delighted gaze wandered on between high and wide quality
tops, emerald-leaved flowering trees and jewel, which soon brought individually to sometimes
in groups stood together, now formed deep groves, across to the most
graceful rock hills which soon showed their naked crystal, marble
and alabaster forms soon with dense Scrub-covered or draped with fragrant
flower florescence.

At one point, but deviated groves rocks and completely to the side
to give space to a beautiful river, which is still, like a Stream
of starlight, poured into the pond.

Over the whole area is a vaulted sky, the ultramarine blue down to yet more was lower, and under
this dome floating white clouds concentrated, lovely to which Genii were stored their instruments
the whole room with the magic sounds of delightful ways fulfilled.

But in this sky no sun was visible, yet it took such a status.

Because of the Clouds and the spirits of rocks and flowers, from water and the lotus flowers
in the Robes of the saints, but even more from their faces radiated
a strange light.

And as it was light from bright light, but not in the least to hide,
it was the soft, fragrant heat saturated by the constant touch of
the water refreshes, and you the air was a pleasure to breathe, nothing
equals the earth.

As Kamanita the first sight of these wonders had twisted so far that she not overwhelmed, but began
to subordinate as its natural environment, he turned his attention
to those other beings who, like himself, to round the floating lotus
thrones were sitting.

He soon noticed that the red-clad men, the dressed in white were
females, while of the blue coats wrapped in figures he thought, some
of this, some that belonged to race.

But all of them were inter- they, in full bloom of youth, and all seemed to be filled with the kindest
disposition.

A neighbor in a blue coat inspired him with great confidence, and desire, a conversation encouraged
to engage him, in him.

"To ask whether it concerns well by itself and without being asked
these venerable?" he thought.

"Not to much I would like to know where I am."

To his great surprise the answer was immediately, silently and without the Blue the lips would
have only moved quietly

"You are in Sukhavati, the abode of bliss."

Involuntarily asked Kamanita more in mind:

"You were here, venerable, when I opened my eyes because my eyes fell immediately on up. Are
you awake, perhaps simultaneously with me or have you been here long? "

"Since time immemorial, I'm here," said the Blue, "and I would believe that I am eternally here
would be if I had not seen so often, like a lotus flower is opened and a new system came to light
-. and if not the smell of the coral tree would be "

"What's wrong with this scent?"

"You'll soon discover themselves. The coral tree is the greatest miracle of this paradise."

The music of the heavenly spirits who accompany themselves on how this silent conversation seemed, with their
ways and sounds are clinging to every sentence, as if its the same
to deepen meaning and to make clear what could not believe the words
wove in this Words, a strange mystical clay, and it seemed the listening
Kamanita as if in infinite depths of his mind opened, in whose shadow
is formless memories excited to wake up without can.

"The greatest miracle!" he said after a pause. "I thought of everything here is wonderful the
most wonderful of those beautiful stream that flows into our pond. "

"The heavenly Ganga," nodded the blue.

"The heavenly Ganga" - Kamanita repeated dreamily, and again came over him, just in increasingly,
that feeling of something, he must know and yet do not know, could
while the mysterious sounds in the deepest depths of his own self,
the sources that stream to look for tracks.

XXIII. BLESSED REIGEN

With surprise Kamanita noticed now, as a not far from him, perched
on their Lotus Rose white figure suddenly rose into the air.

The accumulated mass of the square jacket folds developed themselves
apart until the dress hung in a straight line from shoulder to hem
golden.

And this was no longer touched the petals - the figure floated freely
over the Pond out on up the bank and disappeared among the trees and
behind bushes.

"How wonderful it must be!" - Thought Kamanita. "But that's a very difficult art, although
it looks as if it were nothing. I wonder if I can ever get well?

"

"You can already, if you want," said the blue, to the last question was addressed.

Buy Kamanita had the feeling as if something was picking his body
into the air.

He floated even across the pond to the shore, and soon he was surrounded
by greenery.

Where he's Desiring gaze, there are flight went quickly or slowly,
depending on demand.

He saw other Lotus ponds, just as glorious as the one he had just
left, roamed lovely groves, where colorful birds hopped from branch
to branch, and their melodious chirping with the faint sound of the
top mixed stressed out over flower-filled meadows, where cute antelope
drove their game, without in the least afraid of him, and was finally
on the gentle slope of a hill down.

Between trees and flowering bushes, he saw the corner a pond where the water glittered around
the large lotus flowers with flowers Throne here and there wore a blessed shape, while several
empty even of the whole unfolded were.

Because it was obviously just a moment of general swarming. As a warm Summer evening, the fireflies
among the trees and bushes around the circle back and forth, a quiet,
bright bustle, so here the blessed figures floated individually and
in pairs, in whole Groups or lines through the woods and around the
rocks.

Here it was seen their faces and eyes in that they vividly engaged
in conversation and you sensed the invisible threads of Conversation,
located between the drifting silently over and over tighten.

In sweet, wonderful partiality Kamanita enjoyed this delightful spectacle.
was gradually in him a desire to converse with those who rejoice.

Immediately
he was surrounded by a whole society that welcomed him warmly as the
new arrivals, the newly awakened.

Kamanita was very surprised and
asked if the rumor of its birth itself had spread throughout Sukhavati.

"Oh,
when a lotus opens, rain all the lotus flowers in paradise ponds,
and each Being feels when awakened somewhere a new being to salvation.
"

"But how can you know that now I'm new?"

The hover over him smiling
sweetly.

"You're not so very awake."

"You look at us as if you saw
a dream and figures in front of you were afraid that they suddenly
could disappear and that a harsh reality around you again want to.
"

Kamanita shook his head.

"I do not quite understand. What a dream
figures?"

"You forget," said a White-Clad "that he certainly was
not at the Coral Tree."

"No, I was not there. But I've already heard
of him. My neighbor in the pool I said it, the tree will be such a
miracle. What is it then with him? "

But they all smiled mysteriously,
glancing at each other and shaking his head.

"I would like to down
immediately. Will no one show me the way?"

"The way you can find
it myself when the time has come."

Kamanita passed his hand across
his forehead.

"Another wonderful thing was there, which he said ....
Yes .... The heavenly Ganga It will send our pond fed. Is yours with
the so well? "

The White-Clad pointed to the clear river, which wound
around the foot of the hill and in lazy bends to the pond zuschlängelte.

"This
is our influx through the barrel. Innumerable such veins these fields,
and also what you have seen is only one such, albeit a larger one.
But the heavenly Ganga itself Sukhavati encloses the whole. "

"Have
you seen it yourself?"

The White shook his head.

"So because you
can not get there?"

"You can already," they all answered. "But none
of us was there. Why should we? Nowhere, it may be better than here.
Some others were certainly there - but they never are flew again.
"

"Why not?"

The White pointed to the ponds:

"You see the red there,
almost on the other side - he was there, it is long, long time will.
We ask him if he is later flown again to the shore of the Ganga? "

"Never,"
sounded at once the response of the Reds.

"And why not?"

"Fly himself
back and get you an answer."

"Shall we?

    'The north wind fall'n, in the new-starrèd night
    Zidonian Hanno, voyaging beyond
    The hoary promontory of Soloë,
    Past Thymiaterion in calmèd bays.'

We must here note specially the musical flow of this last line, which is the more creditable
to Mr. Tennyson, because it was before the tuneless names of this very neighbourhood that the
learned continuator of Dionysius retreated in despair--

    ----επωνυμίας νυν ἔλλαχεν ἄλλας
    Αἰθίοπων γαίν, δυσφωνους ουδ' επιήρονς
    Μουσαις ὄυνεκα τασδ' ἐγω ουκ αγορευσομ' απασας.

but Mr. Tennyson is bolder and happier--

    'Past Thymiaterion in calmèd bays,
    Between the southern and the western Horn,
    Heard neither'--

We pause for a moment to consider what a sea-captain might have expected to hear, by night,
in the Atlantic ocean--he heard

    --'neither the warbling of the nightingale
    Nor melody o' the Libyan lotusflute,'

but he did hear the three daughters of Hesper singing the following song:--

    'The golden apple, the golden apple, the hallowèd fruit,
    Guard it well, guard it warily,
    Singing airily,
    Standing about the charmèd root,
    Round about all is mute'--

mute, though they sung so loud as to be heard some leagues out at sea--

      ----'all is mute
    As the snow-field on mountain peaks,
    As the sand-field at the mountain foot.
    Crocodiles in briny creeks
    Sleep, and stir not: all is mute.'

How admirably do these lines describe the peculiarities of this charmèd neighbourhood--fields
of snow, so talkative when they happen to lie at the foot of the mountain, are quite out of
breath when they get to the top, and the sand, so noisy on the summit of a hill, is dumb at
its foot. The very crocodiles, too, are mute--not dumb but mute. The 'red-combèd dragon curl'd'
is next introduced--

    'Look to him, father, lest he wink, and the golden apple be stolen
        away,
    For his ancient heart is drunk with overwatchings night and day,
    Sing away, sing aloud evermore, in the wind, without stop.'

The north wind, it appears, has by this time awaked again--

    'Lest his scalèd eyelid drop,
    For he is older than the world'--

older than the hills, besides not rhyming to 'curl'd,' would hardly have been a sufficiently
venerable phrase for this most harmonious of lyrics. It proceeds--

    'If ye sing not, if ye make false measure,
    We shall lose eternal pleasure,
    Worth eternal want of rest.
    Laugh not loudly: watch the treasure
    Of the wisdom of the west.
    In a corner wisdom whispers. Five and three
    (Let it not be preached abroad) make an awful mystery.'--p. 102.

This recipe for keeping a secret, by singing it so loud as to be heard for miles, is almost
the only point, in all Mr. Tennyson's poems, in which we can trace the remotest approach to
anything like what other men have written, but it certainly does remind us of the 'chorus of
conspirators' in the Rovers.

We hardly think that, if Hanno had translated it into Punic, the song would have been more
intelligible.

The 'Lotuseaters'--a kind of classical opium-eaters--are Ulysses and his crew. They land on
the 'charmèd island,' and 'eat of the charmèd root,' and then they sing--

    'Long enough the winedark wave our weary bark did carry.
    This is lovelier and sweeter,
    Men of Ithaca, this is meeter,
    In the hollow rosy vale to tarry,
    Like a dreamy Lotuseater--a delicious Lotuseater!
    We will eat the Lotus, sweet
    As the yellow honeycomb;
    In the valley some, and some
    On the ancient heights divine,
    And no more roam,
    On the loud hoar foam,
    To the melancholy home,
    At the limits of the brine,
    The little isle of Ithaca, beneath the day's decline.'--p. 116.

Our readers will, we think, agree that this is admirably characteristic, and that the singers
of this song must have made pretty free with the intoxicating fruit. The amulet was a
tiger eye, just not very precious stone, but this was an infallible remedy for the evil eye -
and now, when its hit me, I had to miss him now. But what took care of that? But I thought the
ball had touched the hand all the lotus just now in the hands, and as a very skilful ball player,
I managed to do a throw as accurately calculated, that the ball pitched just in front of a
corner of the stage, even then with a jump as it were tamed in the area of ​​the beautiful player
to arrive, who stopped for a moment had to get the other ball in motion, and safe blocking again in
their golden cage - having great joy of the many spectators.

This was because now the ball game to end worship of Lakshmi, the girl disappeared from the
stage, and we went for home.

Heading said my friend, it was good that I want to accomplish anything there on the court, for The
young man I had been chasing the ball, be none other than the son of the minister, and one she
had seen him that he had me sworn implacable hatred. This made me now completely cold, as I
would much rather find out who was my goddess. I was afraid but to ask, yes, as Somadatta
would tease me with the beauty, I felt very indifferent, praised Know Out Express their skill
in playing, but added that we would have in my home town at least as skillful players - while
I was in my heart the incomparable abbat this lie.

I need hardly say that this night was no sleep in my eyes, I just concluded to be hovered over
again from the lovely appearance. The next day I brought in from all days noise far corner of
the house garden, where the sandy soil under a mango tree my tortured body cooling of ardor,
offered the seven- Vina is the only companion that I entrusted my longing. But as soon as the
decreasing Heat of the day allowed a trip, I persuaded Somadatta, with me to the pleasure garden
To drive even though he would have preferred to attend a quail fight. But nothing was wrong with
I use the whole park - there were many girls there, all driving their game when they wanted me
lure with false hope from one place to another, but that only the image of Lakshmi, was not among
them.

Now, I pretended I had an irresistible longing, the peculiar life at the Ganga to enjoy again.
We visited all the Ghats and finally boarded a boat to to us in the gay flotilla mix, every night
on the waves of the sacred river rocked up off the colors and gloss and gold lights of torches and
lanterns on the river danced and whirled.

Then I finally had to give up my hope, and as silent as the stormy boat guide , Instruct to
control for the next Ghat.

After a sleepless night I stayed in my room, and to my mind, but the only filled with her image was
to employ and to dispel before I returned to the Lustgarten could hasten, I tried to brush
and dyes her lovely appearance, as dancing Step, the ball hit to catch them on the board. I was
able to take a bite to me; for as the sweet singing Çakora only moonbeams lives, so I only lived
by the Rays of that moon-faced, though it only reached me through the mist of memory; but I
hoped confident that this evening in the pleasure garden with its full glory revive me, and would
last. But this time I was disappointed. Now would Somadatta take me home in a game, because
he was so fond of the dice game as Nala, after Kali the demon had possessed him. I, however,
protected from fatigue.

But rather than after to go home, I went back to the ghats on the
river and beyond - not able to with better success than on the previous
evening.

V. THE MAGIC PORTRAIT

Since I knew that was for me not to think of sleep, I lay down that
night do not go to bed, but sat on the grass to worship certain camp
at the head end of the bed, and brought there, fervent love reflections
and prayers to the lotus-bearing Lakshmi, her heavenly archetype,
in pious and decorous manner the night, but the early Morning sun
found me again with brushes and paints at work.

Several hours had passed me while in flight, came in as Somadatta.

I had just still time, the board and the brushes to slide under the
bed when I heard him coming.

I did so involuntarily.

Somadatta took a low chair, sat down beside me and looked at me smiling.

"I know quite well," he said, "that our company shall be unto the glory, the starting place
a saint to be. Yes you fast, as do only the strictest ascetic, abstaining up the lush habit
of the camp. Because neither the head and foot still on the Mattress is to see the slightest
impression of your body, and the white blanket folds. While you're through fasting already growing
thin, your body is surely yet not without weight, as indicated by the way, also here at the grass
seats, where you obviously spent the night in prayer and self-depression have. But I still think that
for a so holy inhabitants of this room looks a little too worldly.

Here on the night table to be sure pristine ointment box and the cup with Sandelstaub, the vessel
with perfumed water and the jar with lemon tree bark and betel.

There on the wall, the yellow amaranth garlands, the sounds - but where is the painting board,
but otherwise it depends on that catch? "

While I was able to see my embarrassment to this question no answer, discovered Now he missed the
board and pulled it out from under the bed.

"Why, what's that for an evil, cunning magician," he cried, "one of the board, we've had hanged
himself completely empty on those hooks, the charming image of a ball-playing Girl by magic
power has given rise - apparently in the evil intention of the prospective ascetics to fall at
the very beginning with his temptations, and to confuse the senses and thoughts! Or at the end
there is one God, for we know that the gods before the omnipotence
of great ascetics fear, and with such a start like yours could have
Vindhyagebirge to smoke before the fervor of your fine start, indeed
by the accumulation of your earnings would come the kingdom of the
heavenly gods falter.

And now I know what It is God: it is certainly the one they call the invisible, of God with the
flower arrows, of a fish in the banner bears - Kama, the god of love,
of which you have even your name.

And - heavens, what do I see? that's Vasitthi, the daughter of a rich goldsmith. "

As I sat for the first time the name of the beloved heard my heart began to throb violently, and
my face turned pale with excitement.

"I see, dear friend," continued the bad joker, "that this idea of ​​the magic Kamas puts you in great
terror, and in fact we must do something to his anger to escape. However, since Weiberrat is
not to be despised. I want this image of my magic Medini beloved show, which was also at the
dance and also the foster-sister of the beautiful Vasitthi is. "

By this he wanted to remove the picture. As I probably knew what was up the rascal I was waiting
for him, because the picture was missing an inscription. I mixed the finest fiery red color and
even a short time I wrote the most elegant lettering a four-line verse that very simply told the
procedure with the golden ball.

But if you the lines backwards read the verse said that that ball with which she had played,
my Heart is that I myself sent back to her when they also hunt them, but one could also the
verse read across the rows from top to bottom, and then it contained a complaint about the
despair into which I had thrown the separation from her, read it in reverse Direction, then it
became clear that I still dared to hope.

From what I had in this way hineingeheimnißt, but I would reveal nothing, so Somadatta was because
of this sample of my poetry, it seemed too easy, even built not much. He said I should definitely
talk about how god Kama, by my asceticism Terrified, the magic picture to my temptation and I conjured
up because everyone always like the most is delighted with his own
jokes - would overcome this.

As had now abducted Somadatta the picture, I felt myself in a high and energetic Mood, but now
because a step had been taken, perhaps in its consequences to the desired lucky goal might
lead.

I was able to eat and drink, and after I strengthened me had, I took the Vina of the wall and let
her strings soon sighing melodic, sometimes cheer while I repeated the heavenly name Vasitthi
in new colors.

Sun found me because even Somadatta when he several hours later with the picture in his hand entered.

"The
ball game knowledgeable destroyer also has sealed your rest," he said, "but many sense I think not
just stored up in their verses, though the font of unusual may be considered pretty. "

Actually, I saw - with what delight, I can not say - a second quatrain, with writings such
as the delicate flowering branches on the board was executed, as it breathes. Somadatta certainly
no sense had been able to find it, because the whole thing was referring just to what He had not
noticed and showed me that the lovely lady my verse in all directions - backward, had read correctly,
which give me a high idea of ​​their education - downward and upward and gave her knowledge,
as well as their fine spirit in the graceful turn joking showed, with which they accepted my
fiery speech as a polite gallantry, which one not too much significance
should attach.

Now of course I also tried the same methods applied to their reading verse, in the Hope, perhaps
a veiled confession, or some secret message, probably even an invitation to a rendezvous to
find it; but in vain. I said because at once that this was in itself indicative of the highest and
finest female manners: the lovely showed me that she was well able to the subtlety and daring
paths to understand the male mind, but that they not be led, in his footsteps to follow.

I was disappointed about my expectation now immediately comforted by the words Somadatta.

"But this Schönbrauige when it is no great poet has, but truly a good Heart. She knows that I have
long been my beloved Medini, her foster sister, have not seen, except
in large groups where only the eyes can speak, and also the only surreptitiously.

And so it gives us an opportunity to us the following night on the terrace to take his father's
palace. Tonight, it is not possible, because her father is a banquet, so long must we wait
us then. Maybe you feel like me at accompany this adventure? "

He laughed very mischievous, and I just laughed and assured him of my support. In the most excellent
spirits, we took the board game that was leaning against the wall, and wanted we reduce this by the
spirit inspiring the time employment as a servant came in and said that a stranger wished to speak
to me.

I walked into the lobby and met as the servant of the ambassador, who told me that I must make
me ready for their departure and me already that night with my car in the courtyard of Palace
arrive so they could leave at the first dawn.

My despair knew no bounds. I fancied that I had suddenly any deity insulting. As soon as I collect
my thoughts to some extent, could I rushed to the Messenger and he lied a lot in front of a store,
that was not closed down and are impossible could be placed in such a short period to prosperous conclusion.
With hot tears implored I did the trip only to postpone by one day.

"You told me a week ago that you were ready," he said.

But I assured him that after unexpectedly still a prospect of a significant Income would have
been opened. And that was the truth, for what profit was for me to mean more than the conquest
of this incomparable girl - and so I was able at last, to listen to him this one day.

The hours the following day passed quickly with the necessary travel
arrangements, so that me the time, despite my desire, was not too
long.

As evening fell, were the carts loaded in the yard. Everything was ready for biasing to when I
- before dawn - was published, to leave.

VI. ON THE TERRACE OF WORRY-FREE

As it was now completely become night, we went, and I Somadatta us in dark-colored Clothing,
tucked high, firm and girded the sword in hand, to the west side of the palatial house of
a rich goldsmith, where the terrace above the steep cliff was a ravine. With the help of a bamboo
pole we brought climbed now, the few projections sent to users who are shrouded in deep shadow
rock wall, topped then the wall with ease and found ourselves now to a large, palm, Asokabäumen beautiful
flowers and plants of all kinds decorated terrace, bathed in moonlight, is spread out before
us.

Not far from me I saw the Lakshmi similar wide-eyed, with my heart Ball playing, sitting next
to a young girl on a bench, and at the sight I began to tremble so violently in every limb that I had
to lean against the railing, the marble cold glow of fire in my already receding sense refreshed
and strengthened. Meanwhile Somadatta was hastened to his mistress, who had jumped with a faint
cry.

Now I pulled myself because so far that I am approaching the Peerless was that, apparently surprised
by the arrival of a stranger, had arisen and undecided seemed to know whether to stay or leave,
while her eye, like that of the frightened young Antelope, repeated with sidelong glances
from the far corner of my eye to my feet, with they like the quiet winds tossed Ranke shook.
But I stood there in steadily increasing Confusion, with ruffled
hair, cheeks and wide eyes in bloom, and could only with difficulty
some words from the unexpected good fortune to meet them here hervorstammeln.

But when they my great timidity noticed they seemed to calm himself. She sat down again on the
bench and asked me with a casual movement, a Lotus their hand next to her increase, while in
a voice that trembled slightly and very comely, assured me she was
very happy to have this opportunity to thank me because I told her
the ball with such Skill would have set back that no disturbance was
caused in the game, for if it settled all their earnings would have
been gone, and the awkwardly from her revered goddess would have been
angry at least given her or her luck.

Replied I have to thank them not me, I would have more than made up for it as I do missed, and
when she did not understand how I said that, I dare you to remember,
as our eyes had met, and she thereat confuses the wrong ball, met
so that He flew away.

But she blushed violently, and was not quite admit - what would because they can confuse, too?

"I
think," I replied, "that my wide eyes as it were in bloom, such a fragrance have let flow out
of admiration, that you've been stunned by a moment and with your hand next to slain. "

"Why, what are you talking to me because of admiration," she replied, "you're accustomed to in
your home to see a lot more skilled players. "

From this statement I took with satisfaction that we had talked about me, and that my words were
addressed to Somadatta been reported to him faithfully. But was I also hot and cold at the thought
that I even talked almost contemptuously of them had, and I hastened to assure her that it had
not been a true word, and that I had only spoken so in order not to reveal the secret of my sweet friends.
The wanted to believe but not, or pretended to, and I forgot about
it then happy all my shyness, got into great zeal to convince her
and told her as in the sight of the love God had his flower arrows
at me cause it to rain.

I was convinced that it was in a previous life, my wife, because where else would probably
such a sudden and irresistible love? If this is so is, but then they must also I have seen in
her former husband, and it must also have occurred if he has such a love be.

With such bold words, I pressed impetuously upon her until they finally get their glowing, tränenperlende
cheek against my chest and hid confessed to me in a barely audible words, that it it was gone
as well as me, and that they would certainly have died if her foster
sister would you not still be on time the image.

Then we kissed and embraced countless times and felt faint with joy
to have to up Suddenly the thought of my imminent departure as a black
shadow about my happiness and I was blackmailed a deep sigh.

Startled
Vasitthi asked why I sighed then. When I called her but then the reason
as they fell back helplessly on the bench, and broke into an inexhaustible
river of tears in and out of heart-rending sobs. It is a mixture of prettinesses:
the first four triplets run thus, ending in a poetic beauty--

    "O Swallow, Swallow, flying, flying South,
    Fly to her, and fall upon her gilded eaves,
    And tell her, tell her what I tell to thee.

    "O tell her, Swallow, thou that knowest each,
    That bright and fierce and fickle is the South,
    And dark and true and tender is the North.

    "O Swallow, Swallow, if I could follow, and light
    Upon her lattice, I would pipe and trill,
    And cheep and twitter twenty million loves.

    "O were I thou that she might take me in,
    And lay me on her bosom, and her heart
    Would rock the snowy cradle till I died."

The prince saves the princess from being drowned, when the secret explodes like a roll of gun
cotton, and a grand turmoil ensues. The rival kings approach to confines in battle array, and
the princess resumes the declaration of war:--

                              "A tide of fierce
    Invective seem'd to wait behind her lips,
    As waits a river level with the dam
    Ready to burst and flood the world with foam:
    And so she would have spoken, but there rose
    A hubbub in the court of half the maids
    Gather'd together; from the illumin'd hall
    Long lanes of splendour slanted o'er a press
    Of snowy shoulders, thick as herded ewes,
    And rainbow robes, and gems and gemlike eyes,
    And gold and golden heads; they to and fro
    Fluctuated, as flowers in storm, some red, same pale,
    All open-mouth'd, all gazing to the light,
    Some crying there was an army in the land,
    And some that men were in the very walls,
    And some they cared not; till a clamour grew
    As of a new-world Babel, woman-built,
    And worse-confounded: high above them stood
    The placid marble Muses, looking peace."

She denounces the perils outside and in--

                                    "I dare
    All these male thunderbolts: what is it ye fear?
    Peace! there are those to avenge us and they come:
    If not,--myself were like enough, O girls,
    To unfurl the maiden banner of our rights,
    And clad in iron burst the ranks of war,
    Or, falling, protomartyr of our cause,
    Die: yet I blame ye not so much for fear;
    Six thousand years of fear have made ye that
    From which I would redeem ye: but for those
    That stir this hubbub--you and you--I know
    Your faces there in the crowd--to-morrow morn
    We meet to elect new tutors; then shall they
    That love their voices more than duty, learn
    With whom they deal, dismiss'd in shame to live
    No wiser than their mothers, household stuff,
    Live chattels, mincers of each other's fame,
    Full of weak poison, turnspits for the clown,
    The drunkard's football, laughing-stocks of Time,
    Whose brains are in their hands and in their heels,
    But fit to flaunt, to dress, to dance, to thrum,
    To tramp, to scream, to burnish, and to scour
    For ever slaves at home and fools abroad."

Ay, just as Shakspere hath it--

    "To suckle fools and chronicle small beer."

The hero also meets the shock, at least in poetic grace:--

                        "Upon my spirits
    Settled a gentle cloud of melancholy,
    Which I shook off, for I was young, and one
    To whom the shadow of all mischance but came
    As night to him that sitting on a hill
    Sees the midsummer, midnight, Norway sun,
    Set into sunrise."

It is agreed to decide the contest by a combat of fifty on each side--the one led by the prince,
and the other by Arac, the brother of the princess. And clad in "harness"--

              "Issued in the sun that now
    Leapt from the dewy shoulders of the Earth,
    And hit the northern hills."

To the fight--

    "Then rode we with the old king across the lawns
    Beneath huge trees, a thousand rings of Spring
    In every bole, a song on every spray
    Of birds that piped their Valentines."

The prince and his companions are defeated; and he, wounded almost to the death, is consigned
at her own request to be nursed by the princess:--

    "So was their sanctuary violated,
    So their fair college turn'd to hospital;
    At first with all confusion; by and by
    Sweet order lived again with other laws;
    A kindlier influence reign'd; and everywhere
    Low voices with the ministering hand
    Hung round the sick."

The result may be foreseen--

    "From all a closer interest flourish'd up.
    Tenderness touch by touch, and last, to these,
    Love, like an Alpine harebell hung with tears
    By some cold morning glacier; frail at first
    And feeble, all unconscious of itself,
    But such as gather'd colour day by day."

              "O we will walk this world,
    Yoked in all exercise of noble end,
    And so through those dark gates across the wild
    That no man knows. Indeed I love thee; come,
    Yield thyself up; my hopes and thine are one;
    Accomplish thou my manhood and thyself
    Lay thy sweet hands in mine and trust to me."

Who will question the true poetry of this production, or who will deny the imperfections, (mostly
of affectation, though some of tastelessness) which obscure it? Who will wonder at our confessed
wavering when they have read this course of alternate power, occasionally extravagant, and
feebleness as in the long account of the emeute? Of the extravagant, the description of the
princess, on receiving the declaration of war, is an example:--

                    "She read, till over brow
    And cheek and bosom brake the wrathful bloom
    As of some fire against a stormy cloud,
    When the wild peasant rights himself, and the rick
    Flames, and his anger reddens in the heavens."

The heroine, it must be acknowledged, is much of the virago throughout, and the prince rather
of the softest; but the tale could not be otherwise told. We add four examples--two to be admired,
and two to be contemned, in the fulfilment of our critique.

    "For was, and is, and will be, are but is,"

is a noble line; and the following, on the promised restoration of a child to its mother, is
very touching--

    "Again she veiled her brows, and prone she sank, and so
    Like tender things that being caught feign death,
    Spoke not, nor stirr'd."

Not so the burlesque eight daughters of the plough, the brawny ministers
of the princess' executive, and their usage of a herald. Each was like a Druid rock;
    Or like a spire of land that stands apart
    Cleft from the main, and clang'd about with mews."

And they--

    "Came sallying through the gates, and caught his hair,
    And so belabour'd him on rib and cheek
    They made him wild."

Nor the following--

    "When the man wants weight the woman takes it up,
    And topples down the scales; but this is fixt
    As are the roots of earth and base of all.
    Man for the field and woman for the hearth;
    Man for the sword and for the needle she;
    Man with the head and woman with the heart;
    Man to command and woman to obey;
    All else confusion. Look to it; the gray mare
    Is ill to live with, when her whinny shrills
    From tile to scullery, and her small goodman
    Shrinks in his arm-chair while the fires of Hell
    Mix with his hearth; but take and break her, you!
    She's yet a colt. Well groom'd and strongly curb'd
    She might not rank with those detestable
    That to the hireling leave their babe, and brawl
    Their rights or wrongs like potherbs in the street.
    They say she's comely; there's the fairer chance:
    I like her none the less for rating at her!
    Besides, the woman wed is not as we,
    But suffers change of frame. A lusty brace
    Of twins may weed her of her folly. Boy,
    The bearing and the training of a child
    Is woman's wisdom."

--The Literary Gazette.

ROBERT BROWNING

Paracelsus. By Robert Browning.

There is talent in this dramatic poem, (in which is attempted a picture of the mind of this
celebrated character,) but it is dreamy and obscure. Writers would do well to remember, (by
way of example,) that though it is not difficult to imitate the mysticism and vagueness of
Shelley, we love him and have taken him to our hearts as a poet, not because of these characteristics--but
in spite of them.--The Athenæum.

Sordello. By Robert Browning. London: Moxon. 1840.

The scene of this poem is laid in Italy, when the Ghibelline and Guelph factions were in hottest
contest. The author's style is rather peculiar, there being affectations of language and invertions
of thought, and other causes of obscurity in the course of the story which detract from the
pleasure of perusing it. But after all, we are much mistaken if Mr. Browning does not prove
himself a poet of a right stamp,--original, vigorous, and finely inspired. He appears to us
to possess a true sense of the dignity and sacredness of the poet's kingdom; and his imagination
wings its way with a boldness, freedom and scope, as if he felt himself at home in that sphere,
and was resolved to put his allegiance to the test.--The Monthly Review.

Men and Women. By Robert Browning. Two Volumes. Chapman and Hall.

It is really high time that this sort of thing should, if possible, be stopped. Here is another
book of madness and mysticism--another melancholy specimen of power wantonly wasted, and talent
deliberately perverted--another act of self-prostration before that demon of bad taste who
now seems to hold in absolute possession the fashionable masters of our ideal literature. It
is a strong case for the correctional justice of criticism, which has too long abdicated its
proper functions. The Della Crusca of Sentimentalism perished under the Baviad--is there to
be no future Gifford for the Della Crusca of Transcendentalism? The thing has really grown
to a lamentable head amongst us. The contagion has affected not only our sciolists and our
versifiers, but those whom, in the absence of a mightier race, we must be content to accept
as the poets of our age. Here is Robert Browning, for instance--no one can doubt that he is
capable of better things--no one, while deploring the obscurities that deface the Paracelsus
and the Dramatic Lyrics, can deny the less questionable qualities which characterized those
remarkable poems--but can any of his devotees be found to uphold his present elaborate experiment
on the patience of the public? Take any of his worshippers you please--let him be "well up"
in the transcendental poets of the day--take him fresh from Alexander Smith, or Alfred Tennyson's
Maud, or the Mystic of Bailey--and we will engage to find him at least ten passages in the
first ten pages of Men and Women, some of which, even after profound study, he will not be
able to construe at all, and not one of which he will be able to read off at sight. Let us
take one or two selections at random from the first volume, and try. What, for instance, is
the meaning of these four stanzas from the poem entitled "By the Fireside"?--

    My perfect wife, my Leonor,
      Oh, heart my own, oh, eyes, mine too,
    Whom else could I dare look backward for,
      With whom beside should I dare pursue
    The path grey heads abhor?

    For it leads to a crag's sheer edge with them;
      Youth, flowery all the way, there stops--
    Not they; age threatens and they contemn,
      Till they reach the gulf wherein youth drops,
    One inch from our life's safe hem! One extract more and we
have done. A gold medal in the department of Hermeneutical Science to
the ingenious individual, who, after any length of study, can succeed in
unriddling this tremendous passage from "Master Hugues of Saxe-Gotha,"
the organist:--

    First you deliver your phrase
      --Nothing propound, that I see,
    Fit in itself for much blame or much praise--
      Answered no less, where no answer needs be:
    Off start the Two on their ways!

    Straight must a Third interpose,
      Volunteer needlessly help--
    In strikes a Fourth, a Fifth thrusts in his nose,
      So the cry's open, the kennel's a-yelp,
    Argument's hot to the close!

    One disertates, he is candid--
      Two must dicept,--has distinguished!
    Three helps the couple, if ever yet man did:
      Four protests, Five makes a dart at the thing wished--
    Back to One, goes the case bandied!

    One says his say with a difference--
      More of expounding, explaining!
    All now is wrangle, abuse, and vociferance--
      Now there's a truce, all's subdued, self-restraining--
    Five, though, stands out all the stiffer hence.

    One is incisive, corrosive--
      Two retorts, nettled, curt, crepitant--
    Three makes rejoinder, expansive, explosive--
      Four overbears them all, strident and strepitant--
    Five ... O Danaides, O Sieve!

    Now, they ply axes and crowbars--
      Now they prick pins at a tissue
    Fine as a skein of the casuist Escobar's
      Worked on the bone of a lie. To what issue?
    Where is our gain at the Two-bars?

    Est fuga, volvitur rota!
      On we drift. Where looms the dim port?
    One, Two, Three, Four, Five, contribute their quota--
      Something is gained, if one caught but the import--
    Show it us, Hugues of Saxe-Gotha!

    What [with] affirming, denying,
      Holding, risposting, subjoining,
    All's like ... it's like ... for an instance I'm trying ...
      There! See our roof, its gilt moulding and groining
    Under those spider-webs lying?

    So your fugue broadens and thickens,
      Greatens and deepens and lengthens,
    Till one exclaims--"But where's music, the dickens?
      Blot ye the gold, while your spider-web strengthens,
    Blacked to the stoutest of tickens?"

Do our readers exclaim, "But where's poetry--the dickens--in all this rigmarole?" We confess
we can find none--we can find nothing but a set purpose to be obscure, and an idiot captivity
to the jingle of Hudibrastic rhyme. This idle weakness really appears to be at the bottom of
half the daring nonsense in this most daringly nonsensical book. Hudibras Butler told us long
ago that "rhyme the rudder is of verses;" and when, as in his case, or in that of Ingoldsby
Barham, or Whims-and-Oddities Hood, the rudder guides the good ship into tracks of fun and
fancy she might otherwise have missed, we are grateful to the double-endings, not on their
own account, but for what they have led us to. But Mr. Browning is the mere thrall of his own
rudder, and is constantly being steered by it into whirlpools of the most raging absurdity.
This morbid passion for double rhymes, which is observable more or less throughout the book,
reaches its climax in a long copy of verses on the "Old Pictures of Florence," which, with
every disposition to be tolerant of the frailties of genius, we cannot hesitate to pronounce
a masterpiece of absurdity. Let the lovers of the Hudibrastic admire these tours de force:--

    Not that I expect the great Bigordi
      Nor Sandro to hear me, chivalric, bellicose;
    Nor wronged Lippino--and not a word I
      Say of a scrap of Fra Angelico's.
    But you are too fine, Taddeo Gaddi,
      So grant me a taste of your intonaco--
    Some Jerome that seeks the heaven with a sad eye?
      No churlish saint, Lorenzo Monaco?

        *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    Margheritone of Arezzo,
      With the grave-clothes garb and swaddling barret,
    (Why purse up mouth and beak in a pet so,
      You bald, saturnine, poll-clawed parrot?)
    No poor glimmering Crucifixion,
      Where in the foreground kneels the donor?
    If such remain, as is my conviction,
      The hoarding does you but little honour.

The conclusion of this poem rises to a climax:--

    How shall we prologuise, how shall we perorate,
      Say fit things upon art and history--
    Set truth at blood-heat and the false at zero rate,
      Make of the want of the age no mystery!
    Contrast the fructuous and sterile eras,
      Show, monarchy its uncouth cub licks
    Out of the bear's shape to the chimæra's--
      Pure Art's birth being still the republic's!

    Then one shall propose (in a speech, curt Tuscan,
      Sober, expurgate, spare of an "issimo,")
    Ending our half-told tale of Cambuscan,
      Turning the Bell-tower's altaltissimo.
    And fine as the beak of a young beccaccia
      The Campanile, the Duomo's fit ally,
    Soars up in gold its full fifty braccia,
      Completing Florence, as Florence, Italy. 

Kamanita noticed how Vasitthi vanished. But leaving a legacy of a dying man, Vasitthi so had bequeathed
to him now the Buddha image that remained with him alone in space, and he now clearly recognized.

"That
old ascetic, with whom I spent the night in Rajagaha and I scolded
foolish, it was yes the Perfect!

O me of fools! Was there ever a bigger fools than me? What I, as the highest salvation, as
salvation itself desired, this I have already been billions of Years possessed! "

As he approached the phenomenon as a contracting the cloud and wrapped
it in a shiny Mist.

XLV. WORLD NIGHT AND WORLD GRAY

As in a hard court, when all the torches and lamps are extinguished, is in a corner of a sacred
image of a lamp still burning remains, therefore, remained in the
world Kamanita night alone back.

For as his physicality was wrapped in the astral substance that Buddha
appearance, was his soul entirely enveloped by the Buddha thought:
and that was the oil which the flame This lamp supplied.

The whole conversation he in the lobby of the potter to Rajagaha had with the sublime had increased
sentence by sentence, word for word in his memory on. After it just over gone through, he began
all over again. And every sentence he was there as a gate in the
new way of thinking is opened, which in turn led to another.

And he wandered all of them, leisurely pace, and nothing was there, what was it dark.

And while his mind because in this way into the Buddha mind spun in and processed, called his
physicality more and more of the surrounding astral mist, so that
this finally became transparent.

And the darkness of the night world began to be a delicate to show
blue, which was always dark.

Then thought Kamanita:

"Outside, now there is the immense darkness of the world overnight. Once but time will come, as
the day dawns and a new Brahma world into existence occurs. If my thoughts and wishes now would
be aimed to be a hundred thousand times Brahma, call of this world to life is, I do not know
who I could run the place since. For while all the creatures that Brahma world in a faint and
not-have sunk, I'm here alive and mentally strong to Place. Yes, I could if I wanted at that
moment the being all call into existence each in his place, and the new Weltentag start. But
one thing I could: Vasitthi I could never get back into existence. Vasitthi went away in that
vanishing, the existence of germs can not, no God, no Brahma can
find them.

But what should my life without Vasitthi that was the most beautiful and best in life? And
what shall I have a Brahmasein, can go beyond what man? What to me is the temporality, if
there is a Eternity there?

"There is an eternity and a path to eternity. Once I was an old Waldbrahmane taught that are woven around
the heart hundred fine veins through which the soul in the can wander all over the body, a single
vein but there would that lead to the crown, and by this the soul leave the body. Thus there
are hundreds, thousands and even hundreds of thousands Paths that lead around in this world,
by various disease sites, lengthy and kurzwierige, beautifully furnished
and equipped ugly: heaven and human world and animal kingdom and hells.

But there is one way to provide the leads out completely from this
world.

This is the way into eternity, the way to the virgin. In this way
I am now.

Well, I it will come to an end. "

And he thought of the Buddha thought the roads leading to the destruction
of suffering continues.

And always, the dark blue of the transparent world overnight.

How the same thing but started to become almost black, shining on
the new Brahma, a hundred thousand times Brahma, the enlightened one
hundred thousand worlds and replaced.

And Brahma who issued the happy wake-up call:

"Wake up, its essence all of you this whole world through the night
in the bosom of nothingness can rest!

Here to form the new world of Brahman, to enjoy the new Weltentag, each in its Place, each according
to his power! "

And the creatures and worlds out of non-emerged out of darkness, star to star, and how joyful
shout of a hundred thousand voices and sound of hundreds of thousands of drums and conches
rang:

"Hail to the hundreds of thousands of Brahma, who calls us to the new world days! Our salvation,
we are called to enjoy the Weltentag with him, his divine splendor reflect blessed! "

As Kamanita saw this and knew he was seized with deep pity.

"These beings and worlds rejoice, these star gods and Brahma himself
a hundred thousand times the World Day against, are enjoying life.

And why? Because they do not know. "

By this is not compassion for the world, with the gods and the supreme
God overcame Kamanita the last remnant of self-love.

But now he was considering:

"During this World Day will indeed appear
perfect Buddhas, which the truth .

Proclaim If now hear these deities, the saving truth and remember that they In the first dawn
of the World Day has seen a creature that looked out from the world, then they will flourish
to the benefit of this memory. 'Even one from our midst, as it a part of us is preceded on that
way, 'they will say and they will redound to salvation.

So I help Allen, as I help myself. For no one can Truth help yourself without helping Allen. "

As
soon noticed now a few, then more and more of the star gods that
someone was there who do not as the other more and more clearly illuminated,
but declined to shine.

And she called to him:

"Hey, brother, but looks at the great, the hundreds of thousands of Brahma, that your glory to
refresh, that thou mayest shine like us!

You too, brother, are so called, the Glory of the Most High God reflect saved. "

When the gods phoned him so, neither Kamanita looked back, nor listening.

And the gods who saw him still be cloudy, were very concerned about him at all. And they turned
at Brahma:

"Great Brahma! Illuminator and Sustainer Oh but see this poor creature who is too weak to mitzufolgen,
decreases its splendor, instead of increasing!

O judge, but your attention him to enlighten him, refresh it!

He, too, have you even called, so he thy divine Shine reflected saved. "

And the great Brahma, full of care for nature, his attention turned to Kamanita to refresh and
strengthen it.

But the gloss Kamanita went away from rapidly.

As it is now the great Brahma more annoyed that this is a creature could not shed light on him
and did not reflect his glory, as it pleased him that a hundred thousand
worlds basking in his light and praised him joyously.

And he drew much of its divine brilliance of the previous worlds -
luminosity enough to ignite a thousand worlds - and pointed it at
Kamanita.

But the gloss Kamanita always took off still, as if he would receive the complete extinction.

Now, Brahma was greatly fear, in great concern:

"This removes an
in my power - I'm not as omnipotent Nought I see? the way he does
- so I'm not as omniscient?

For those not extinguished, as the Being extinguished in death to be reborn, depending on the
works, not how the worlds go out in the Brahma night in order to ignite again. What light is lit
for him that he despised the mine? So there is a light, brighter
than mine?

So there So there a way to mine the opposite - a way into untrodden?

I'll probably own ever embark on this path - the path to the untraversed
"?

And the star-gods all came in great fear, in great concern:

"This removes an the power of the great Brahma - so is it not the great Brahma powerful? Which light
is probably him that he spurned the one of the great Brahma? It is because a light more glorious
than the divine, we reflect saved? So there So there a way opposite to ours - a way into untrodden?
We will probably ever embark on this path - the path to the untraversed "?

Now considered a hundred thousand times Brahma:

 
 "Well, I'll keep my brightness, which is now widespread in the space
 to retreat and all these worlds will once again sink into the
 dark night of Brahma. And in a single beam is collected I will set my light
 on the being to make it for this my Brahma world still be saved. "
 
 And the hundred thousand times Brahma took his now widespread in the
space of luminosity is back, so that all the worlds sank back into
the dark night of Brahma.

And by His light into a single beam, collected he set it on Kamanita.

"Now we must shine at this point, the brightest star of all my Brahma world!" he thought.

Then she took a hundred thousand times that Brahma single beam, with
enough luminosity to a hundred thousand to ignite worlds, back and
spread again its light across the room.

At the point, however, where he hoped to shine the brightest star visible, was only a smoldering
spark to discover.

And while the vast space worlds and jubilation to the new worlds of lighting up Brahma days crowded
out, went the pilgrims Kamanita entirely, like a lamp goes out if it has consumed the last in the absorbed
their wick oil drops.

End

NOTE

With the exception of the encounter of the Buddha and the pilgrim in the lobby of the potter (Majjhimanikayo
No. 140, where, however, understands and recognizes the pilgrimage
to the Buddha) and the conversion Angulimala [1] the events narrated
in this book I made up - what I perceive, therefore, because some
readers believed the manuscript, I would have handled any Indian legend.

Only the description of the ball game I have taken from Dandin amendment garland Daçakumaracaritam; also
in the brilliant introduction of the German translation of this work - by JJ Meyer - was I many
a good sign. I coloring book of the cultural milieu and historical works of older recent - before
all the Jatakas - have used, is understood well by itself, of modern Works, there was Richard
Schmidt's "Contributions to Indian erotic" is mentioned as extensive mine (Lotus-Verlag, Leipzig
1902, is published in the same publishers Daçakumaracaritam).

[1] XXXIV. The chapter details the legend Majjh. No. 86. But is frustrated archery added by me.
The hell image is not found there, too, but no. 50; the fact is entity will judge the hell out
No. 130 taken, then the following scale of the many and the few parts of one another the canon
of (Anguttara Nikayo - by KE Neumann, "Buddhist Anthology, 'p. 104 ff).

The words are real Buddha for their style easily recognizable as such - although some imitation (p.
140 to 144) can be confused with them. They are mostly the great Translation works of Dr. Charles
E. Neumann "The speeches Buddhos (Majjhimanikayo) removed. But and the epoch-making works and
still unrivaled Prof. Oldenberg ("Buddha") owe I have some important points.

It need hardly be remarked that the few passages of the Upanishads (p. 36 ff., 129, 141) to
Prof. Deussen "Sixty Upanishads of the Veda" are cited. The second major translation works this excellent
and tireless researcher, "The sutras of the Vedanta" owes my tenth Chapter its origin. If this
curious piece of content is a representation of the Indian Superman is - as the extreme opposition
to Buddhism - as it is in its form meticulous replica of the Vedantic
Sutrastils, with the enigmatic brevity of Text, the actual principle
- recognized as Deussen has correctly - is to just keywords for memory,
but not give the sense of the important words, one could fixed without
danger in writing the text as it was understood by none but to which
the Teachers do not verbally told the comment that it is usually so
pedantic complicated precipitated. However, these potassium sutras
- as the whole Vajaçavas - a humorous fiction of me - but then, I
think, admit of any connoisseur of ancient India is that they within
the bounds of possibility - indeed, the probable - holds. India is
just the country where the robber has to philosophize and occasionally
to the "queer saints drives, and where the hell guards "polite to
the last rung of the gallows" remains.

Should now come over such
a connoisseur, the desire to lecture me because of some inaccuracies,
I ask him to remember that the one who the "Pilgrim Kamanita" wrote
probably the best know which liberties he has taken and why. I would
have so easily instead of later Sukhavati the sky can take the thirty-three
gods and would then remain correct. But what on earth could I do with
thirty-three gods, because I do not once in Sukhavati for one use
Amithaba had? Sun left me because as a poet the question quite cold
if the Mahabharatam existed at the time of Buddha, and in what Form.
Also, I confess that I do not know if you from the snowy peaks of
Kusinara of the Himalayas can see, even that I doubt this very even,
although not the distance account of, has seen even greater because
of the Schlagintweit Gaurisankar from the plain. The Be that as it
may, I am of the view that the demands of poetry which the geography
. Precede

Other hand, I would have never allowed, the original Buddhism
"poetic" uses half to change even the smallest train, for that I,
as I said, afterwards so highly popular Idea of ​​Sukhavati have drawn
is, I was not as such a distortion can charge, but because of the
case, identical ideas in the most ancient Buddhism alive are. Rather,
it has been my heart's desire, a real image of Buddhist life and reopen
outlook. If Dr. KE Neumann, without whose work this seal could not
have created, wrote in his afterword to the "truth path" thirteen
years ago: "The last few decades, recent years have given us the first
information as to who the Buddha was and what he has learned ....
The poetry of Buddhism, his innermost feelings, but we a book with
five seals.

There were four interesting reviews of the first edition of the Lyrical Ballads, namely, (1)
Critical Rev., XXIV, n.s. (197-204), in October, 1798, which is reprinted here; (2) Analytical
Rev., XXVIII (583-587), in December, 1798; (3) Monthly Rev., XXIX, n.s. (202-210), in May,
1799, reprinted in Stevenson's Early Reviews; (4) British Critic, XIV (364-369) in October, 1799.

The article in the Critical Review was written by Robert Southey under conditions most favorable
for such a malicious procedure. The publisher, his friend Cottle, had transferred the copyright
of the Lyrical Ballads to Arch, a London publisher, within two weeks of the appearance of the
volume, giving as a shallow excuse the "heavy sale" of the book. Both Wordsworth and Coleridge
were in Germany. Southey had quarreled with Coleridge, and was probably jealous of the latter's
extravagant praise of Wordsworth. He accordingly seized the opportunity to assail the work
without injuring Cottle's interests or entailing the immediate displeasure of the travelling bards.

He covered his tracks to some extent by referring several times to "the author," although the
joint authorship was well known to him. While severe in most of his strictures on Wordsworth,
Southey reserved his special malice for The Ancient Mariner. He called it "a Dutch attempt
at German sublimity"; and in a letter written to William Taylor on September 5, 1798--probably
while he was writing his discreditable critique--he characterized the poem as "the clumsiest
attempt at German sublimity I ever saw." Southey's responsibility for the article became known
to Cottle, who communicated the fact to the poets on their return a year later. Wordsworth
declared that "if Southey could not conscientiously have spoken differently of the volume,
he ought to have declined the task of reviewing it." Coleridge indited an epigram, To a Critic,
and let the matter drop. Shortly afterwards he showed his renewed good-will by aiding Southey
in preparing the second Annual Anthology (1800).

The subsequent reviews of the Lyrical Ballads adopted the tone of the Critical (then recognized
as the leading review) and internal evidence shows that they did not hesitate to borrow ideas
from Southey's article. The Analytical Review also saw German extravagances in The Ancient
Mariner; the Monthly borrowed Southey's figure of the Italian and Flemish painters, and called
The Ancient Mariner "the strangest story of a cock and bull that we ever saw on paper ... a
rhapsody of unintelligible wildness and incoherence." The belated review in the British Critic
was probably written by Coleridge's friend, Rev. Francis Wrangham, and was somewhat more appreciative
than the rest. For further details, consult Mr. Thomas Hutchinson's reprint (1898) of the Lyrical
Ballads, pp. (xiii-xxviii). Despite the unfavorable reviews, the Ballads reached a fourth edition
in 1805 (besides an American edition in 1802), thus achieving the popularity alluded to by
Jeffrey at the beginning of our next review.

Poems (1807)

Wordsworth's fourth publication, the Poems (1807), included most of the pieces written after
the first appearance of the Lyrical Ballads. It was likewise his first venture subsequent to
the founding of the Edinburgh Review. Jeffrey had assailed the theories of the "Lake Poets"
(and, incidentally, coined that unfortunate term) in the first number of the Review, in an
article on Southey's Thalaba, and three years later (1805), in criticizing Madoc, he again
expressed his views on the subject. Now came the first opportunity to deal with the recognized
leader of the "Lakers"--the poet whose work most clearly illustrated the poetic theories that
Jeffrey deemed pernicious.

The article here reprinted from the Edinburgh Rev., XI (214-231), of October, 1807, and Jeffrey's
review of The Excursion, in ibid., XXIV (1-30), are perhaps the two most important critiques
of their kind. No student of Wordsworth's theory of poetry, as set forth in his various prefaces,
can afford to ignore either of these interesting discussions of the subject. (For details,
see A.J. George's edition of the Prefaces of Wordsworth, Gates' Selections from Jeffrey, Beers'
Nineteenth Century Romanticism, Hutchinson's edition of Lyrical Ballads, etc.) It was undoubtedly
true that Jeffrey, although an able critic, failed to grasp the real significance of the new
poetic movement, and to appreciate the influence wrought by the doctrines of the Lake Poets
on modern conceptions of poetry. Yet he was far from wrong in many of his criticisms of Wordsworth.
While deprecating the latter's theories, it is clear that Jeffrey regarded him as a poet of
great power who was being led astray by his perverse practice. The popular conception of Jeffrey
as a hectoring and blatant opponent of Wordsworth is not substantiated by the review. The impartial
reader must agree with Jeffrey at many points, and if he will take the trouble to collate Jeffrey's
quotations with the revised text of Wordsworth, he will learn that the poet did not disdain
to take an occasional suggestion for the improvement of his verse.

We recognize Wordsworth to-day as the most unequal of English poets. There is little that is
common to the inspired bard of Tintern Abbey, the Immortality Ode and the nobler Sonnets, and
the unsophisticated scribe of Peter Bell and The Idiot Boy. Like Browning, he wrote too much
to write well at all times, and if both poets were capable of the sublimest flights, they likewise
descended to unimagined depths; but the fault of Wordsworth was perhaps the greater, because
his bathos was the result of a deliberate and persistent attempt to enrich English poetry with
prosaically versified incidents drawn at length from homely rural life.

SAMUEL TAYLOR COLERIDGE

The first part of Coleridge's Christabel was written in 1797 during the brief period of inspiration
that also gave us The Ancient Mariner and Kubla Khan--in short, that small group of exquisite
poems which in themselves suffice to place Coleridge in the front rank of English poets. The
second part was written in 1800, after the author's return from Germany. The fragment circulated
widely in manuscript among literary men, bewitched Scott and Byron into imitating its fascinating
rhythms, and, at Byron's suggestion, was finally published by Murray in 1816 with Kubla Khan
and The Pains of Sleep. It is probable that the high esteem in which these poems were held
by Coleridge's literary friends led him to expect a favorable reception at the hands of the
critics; hence his keen disappointment at the general tone of their sarcastic analysis and
their protests against the absurdity and obscurity of the poems. The principal critiques on
Christabel were:--(1) Edinburgh Rev., XXVII (58-67), which is here reprinted; (2) Monthly Rev.,
LXXXII, n.s. (22-25), reprinted in Stevenson's Early Reviews; (3) The Literary Panorama, IV,
n.s. (561-565); and (4) Anti-Jacobin Rev., L (632-636).

It is evident that Coleridge was eminently successful in the gentle art of making enemies.
We have seen that Southey's attack on the Lyrical Ballads was a direct result of his ill-will
toward Coleridge; the outrageous article in the Edinburgh Review was written by William Hazlitt
under similar inspiration, and was followed by abusive papers in The Examiner (1816, p. 743,
and 1817, p. 236). There was no justification for Hazlitt, and none has been attempted by his
biographers. Judged by its intrinsic merits, the Edinburgh article is one of the most absurd
reviews ever written by a critic of recognized ability. Hazlitt followed the method of outlining
the story by quotation with interspersed sarcasm and ironical criticism. As a coarse boor might
crumple a delicate and beautifully wrought fabric to prove that it has not the wearing qualities
of a blacksmith's apron, Hazlitt seized upon the ethereal story of Christabel, with its wealth
of mediæval and romantic imagery, and held up to ridicule the incidents that did not conform
to modern English conceptions of life. It requires no great art to produce such a critique;
the same method was applied to Christabel with hardly less success by the anonymous hack of
the Anti-Jacobin. Whatever may have been Hazlitt's motives, we cannot understand how a critic
of his unquestioned ability could quote with ridicule some of the very finest lines of Kubla
Khan, and expect his readers to concur with his opinion. The lack of taste was more apparent
because he quoted, with qualified praise, six lines of no extraordinary merit from Christabel
and insisted, that with this one exception, there was not a couplet in the whole poem that
achieved the standard of a newspaper poetry-corner or the effusions scratched by peripatetic
bards on inn-windows. An interesting discussion between Mr. Thomas Hutchinson and Col. Prideaux
concerning Hazlitt's responsibility for this and other critiques on Coleridge in the Edinburgh
Review will be found in Notes and Queries (Ninth Series), X, pp. 388, 429; XI, 170, 269.

The other reviews of Christabel were all unfavorable. Most extravagant was the utterance of
the Monthly Magazine, XLVI, p. 407, in 1818, when it declared that the "poem of Christabel
is only fit for the inmates of Bedlam. We are not acquainted in the history of literature with
so great an insult offered to the public understanding as the publication of that r[h]apsody
of delirium."

Hazlitt's primitive remarks on the metre of Christabel are of little interest. Coleridge was,
of course, wrong in stating that his metre was founded on a new principle. The irregularly
four-stressed line occurs in Spenser's Shepherd's Calender and can be traced back through the
halting tetrameters of Skelton. Coleridge himself alludes to this fact in his note to his poem
The Raven, and elsewhere. 

"Come, let us go to the coral tree."

"There, but the trees and bushes is so lovely, and they play there
such a cheerful games," Vasitthi said, pointing in another direction.

"Later! Now, we will first the coral tree to you through his miraculous fragrance . Refresh
"

Like a child who is comforted by the promise of a new toy about the fact that It not participate
in the joyous bustle of his comrades must, so Vasitthi followed him
willingly. As the scent entgegenzuwehen them began to animate her
features more and more.

"Where you lead me?" she asked as she was
turning into the narrow canyon. "Never I've been ever so expectantly. These huge unformed productions
were not poems, but metrical tales, written in a kind of verse that could have flowed indefinitely
from the author's pen. In short, Southey was not a poet, and the whole bulk of his efforts
in verse, with but one or two exceptions, seems destined to oblivion. As poet-laureate for
thirty years and the associate of Wordsworth and Coleridge in the "Lake School," Southey will,
however, remain a figure of some importance in the history of English poetry.

The review of Madoc reprinted from the Monthly Rev., XLVIII (113-122) for October, 1805, was
written in the old style then fast giving way to the sprightlier methods of the Edinburgh.
Here we find a style abounding in literary allusions and classical quotations, and evincing
a generally patronizing attitude toward the author under discussion. Most readers will agree
with the sentiments expressed by the reviewer, who succeeded in making his article interesting
without descending to the depths of buffoonery. No apology is necessary for the excision of
the reviewer's unreasonably long extracts from the poem. Madoc was also reviewed at great length
in the Edinburgh Review by Francis Jeffrey.

61. Ille ego, qui quondam, etc. The lines usually prefixed to the Æneid.

61. Prorumpere in medias res. Cf. Horace, Ars Poetica, l. 148.

61. Macklin's Tragedy. Henry VII (1746), his only tragedy, and a failure.

61. Toto carere possum. Cf. Martial, Epig. XI, 56.

61. Camoëns. The author of the Portuguese Lusiad (1572) which narrates the adventures of Vasco
da Gama.

62. Milton. Quoted from Sonnet XI.--On the Detraction which followed upon my writing certain
Treatises.

63. Snatching a grace, etc. Pope's Essay on Criticism, l. 153.

CHARLES LAMB

Most of Lamb's earlier poetical productions appeared in conjunction with the work of other
poets. In the following year appeared Blank Verse, by Charles Lloyd and Charles Lamb. For new
and interesting material concerning the three poets, see E.V. Lucas' Charles Lamb and the Lloyds
(1899). Lloyd (1775-1839) wrote melancholy verses and a sentimental, epistolary novel Edmund
Oliver, but nothing of permanent value. However, in 1798, he was almost as well known as Coleridge,
and was hailed in some quarters as a promising poet.

The Monthly Rev., XXVII, n.s. (104-105), in September, 1798, published the critique of Blank
Verse which is here reprinted. Its principal interest lies in the scant attention shown to
Lamb, although the volume contained his best poem--the tender Old Familiar Faces. Dr. Johnson's
characterization of blank-verse as "poetry to the eye" will be found at the end of his Life
of Milton as a quotation from "an ingenious critic."

Lamb's drama, John Woodvil (1802), written in imitation of later Elizabethan models, was a
failure. It was unfavorably noticed in the Monthly Rev., XL, n.s., p. 442 and at greater length
in the Edinburgh Rev., II, p. 90 ff.

Many years later (1830) Lamb prepared his collection of Album-Verses at the request of his
friend Edward Moxon, who had achieved some fame as a poet and was enabled (by the generous
aid of Samuel Rogers) to begin his more lucrative career as a publisher. Three years after
the appearance of Album-Verses, he married Lamb's adopted daughter, Emma Isola. The Album-Verses,
like most of their kind, were a collection of small value; the Literary Gazette, 1830 (441-442),
consequently lost no time in assailing them. The Athenæum, 1830, p. 435, at that time the bitter
rival of the Gazette, published a more favorable review, and a few weeks later (p. 491) printed
Southey's verses, To Charles Lamb, on the Reviewal of his Album-Verses in the Literary Gazette,
together with a sharp commentary on the methods of the Gazette. Several times during that year
the Athenæum assailed the system of private puffery which was followed by the Gazette and eventually
caused its downfall. There is a reply to the Athenæum in the Literary Gazette, 1833, p. 772.

WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR

Landor was twenty-three when he published Gebir anonymously in 1798--the year of the Lyrical
Ballads--and he lived until 1864. The nine decades of his life covered an important period
of literature. He was nine years old when the great Johnson died, yet he lived to see the best
poetic achievements of Tennyson, Browning, and Arnold. However, he did not live to see Gebir
a popular poem. Southey gave it a favorable welcome in the Critical Review, and became a life-long
admirer of Landor; but our brief notices reprinted from the Monthly Rev., XXXI, n.s., p. 206,
and British Critic, XV, p. 190 of February, 1800, represent more nearly the popular verdict.
Both reviewers complain of the obscurity of the poem, which, it will be remembered, had been
originally written in Latin, then translated and abridged. Notwithstanding the fact that Landor
declared himself amply repaid by the praise of a few appreciative readers, he prepared a violent
and scornful reply to the Monthly Review, and would have published it but for the sensible
dissuasion of a friend. Some interesting extracts from the letter are printed in Forster's
Life of Landor, pp. (76-85). He protested especially against the imputed plagiarisms from Milton
and gave ample evidence of the pugnacious spirit that brought him into difficulties several
times during his life. See also the Imaginary Conversation between Archdeacon Hare and Walter
Landor, wherein the reception of Gebir is discussed and Southey's poetry is praised at the
expense of Wordsworth's. Landor's first publication, the Poems (1795) was noticed in the Monthly
Rev., XXI, n.s., p. 253.

SIR WALTER SCOTT

The successful series of metrical tales which Scott inaugurated with the Lay of the Last Minstrel
(1805) had for its second member the more elaborate Marmion (1808). From the first, Scott's
poems and romances were favorably received by the reviews and usually noticed at great length.
There was always a story to outline and choice passages to quote. As suggested in the Preface,
these pæans of praise are of comparatively little interest to the student, and need hardly
be cited here in detail.

The critique of Marmion, written by Jeffrey for the Edinburgh Rev., XII (1-35), had the place
of honor in the number for April, 1808. It was chosen for the present reprints partly as a
fitting example of Jeffrey's fearlessness in expressing his opinions, and partly for its historic
interest as the article that contributed to Scott's rupture with the Edinburghers and to his
successful founding of a Tory rival in the Quarterly Review. Although the article has here
been abridged to about half of its original length by the omission of six hundred quoted lines
and a synopsis of the poem, it is still the longest of these reprints. Jeffrey evidently felt
that a detailed account of the story was necessary in order to justify his strictures on the plot.

An author of those days could afford to ignore the decisions of the critical monthlies, but
the brilliant criticism and incisive diction of the Edinburgh Review carried weight and exerted
far-reaching influence. Jeffrey's article was practically the only dissonant note in the chorus
of praise that greeted Marmion, and Scott probably resented the critic's attitude. Lockhart,
in his admirable chapter on the publication of Marmion, admits that "Jeffrey acquitted himself
on this occasion in a manner highly creditable to his courageous sense of duty." The April
number of the Edinburgh appeared shortly before a particular day on which Jeffrey had engaged
to dine with Scott. Fearing that under the circumstances he might be an unwelcome guest, he
sent the following tactful note with the copy which was forwarded to the poet:--

"Dear Scott,--If I did not give you credit for more magnanimity than any other of your irritable
tribe, I should scarcely venture to put this into your hands. 

And it seemed Kamanita as if a hundred thousand times Brahma now not quite so clear light, as before.

After
he had seen but five million years the Brahma, it seemed to him as
if he have now seen him for a long time without having obtained a
certainty.

And his attention turned to Vasitthi.

Since he became aware that they too closely watching the Brahma.

Then he fell into dismay.

This confusion came the emotions. came with the feelings the thoughts,
the thoughts came to mind language.

And he said:

"Vasitthi, you see it too? What is a hundred thousand times with the
Brahma?"

After a hundred thousand years Vasitthi replied:

"That's a hundred
thousand times with the Brahma that his luster decreases."

"I want it may seem so," said Kamanita after an equal time "can be sure only be a temporary
phenomenon, yes. But even that strikes me as strange that can be
on hundreds of thousands of Brahma at all a change.

"

After some time, after a few million years, went on Kamanita:

"I
do not know if I may be blinded.

You even noticing it about, Vasitthi that the gloss the hundred thousand-fold increase Brahma
again? "

After five hundred thousand years Vasitthi replied:

"The glory of a hundred thousand times the Brahma does not increase
but decreases restive."

Like a piece of iron, which, taken from the white-hot forge, glowing
red soon after is: So had the glory of a hundred thousand times the
Brahma now get a red glow.

"I wonder what is the meaning of the well," said Kamanita.

"That has to mean, my friend, that the glory of a hundred thousand times the Brahma in the extinction is
understood. "

"Impossible, Vasitthi impossible, what would become of the splendor and glory of this are all
Brahma world? "

"By this he meant when he said:

'Up in the highest light sky urges life - and disintegrates. Know one goes out completely and
the radiance of a Brahma-world '"

After a few thousand years ago was the anxious question Kamanita rash:

"Who has this terrible, done that weltzermalmenden saying?"

"Who else than he, the Almighty, the world connoisseurs, the Perfect One, the Buddha."

Since Kamanita thoughtful.

For some time he thought about these words, remembering many things.

Then he said:

"Once already o, Vasitthi in Sukhavati, in the Paradise of the West, you said a spell of Buddha
ago that filled before our eyes. And I'm thinking like you there a whole Speech by him, the sublime,
tell me true test, which occurred in that sentence. This weltzermalmende Word was not included.
So you have, then, O Vasitthi, other speeches from the sublime heard? "

"Many of my friend, for more than half a year I spent a day in his
presence.

Yes, also expressed by him, even the last words I heard. "

Kamanita looked at her with admiration and awe. Then he said:

"So you're very reason, I believe, the wisest creature in this whole
world of Brahman.

For all these star gods have come around in dismay light flicker restlessly, and and even a
hundred thousand times Brahma himself became restless, and out of his; flash gloomier splendor twitch
now and then, as it Zornesblitze out. But you shine quietly like a lamp on windless place.
And even that is a sign of disorder, that the movement these heavenly
bodies can be heard now - as we used to, far from here, in paradise
on the shore the heavenly Ganga standing, thunder-like sounds and
powerful sound of distant bells ringing as heard this from Brahma
world, we hear it from all sides.

This points out that the harmony of the movements is disturbed that divisiveness and divergence
of the forces be established. Because really it is called, 'Where
deficiency is, noise is produced, the wealth is in the combined.

" And so I have no doubt that you're right. Well, Vasitthi while all around us now cease to be Brahma
world and falls prey to the destruction, you share me your Memories
of the Perfect with, so I'll still like you Tell me all of your Live
with! probably because it may be that we are united for the last time
in a place where What happened from mind to mind can tell, and yet
it remains inexplicable to me, as Angulimala with me in Ujjeni appeared,
although I was aware of his asceticism.

But that his appearance was the impetus for my pilgrimage was the
reason that I do not on steep paths came, but in the Paradise of the
West rose to get out of there, by your help to ascend the highest
heaven to this world where we immense periods of time through divine
life enjoyed.

I suspect however, that even those impetus for my pilgrimage ran
out of you.

This now also and above all, it was like that to you in my salvation paradise published and
not at a far higher place of happiness into existence again occurred would I know now. "

And while from year to year, hundreds of thousands of hundreds of thousands of the increasing turbidity
of the Brahma gloss more noticeable was the star grew pale and gods more and more;

while they flickered more agitated and sprayed, and from the cloudy becoming Glutkreise Brahma
the enormous flames shot out and strips out across the room and down swept, as if God was looking
after the poor giant with a hundred invisible enemies, who oppressed him;

while the perturbed motions of the heavenly bodies eddy currents collected, the entire star systems
in the Brahma realms beyond tugged at their place then the darkness wave of empty space coming
on, as the sea water rushes in there, where the ship has a leak has
received;

and while at other points systems came together and a conflagration
ignited, sheaves whose explosions of meteors into the Glutschlund
of Brahma threw;

while the thunder of the collapsing and falling
into each other harmonies - the death rattle Music of the Spheres
- always terrible to sky area of ​​sky where rolled and echoed: -

informed
Vasitthi unperturbed, in measured fashion, Kamanita their last earthly
experiences.

XL. HAIN IN KRISHNA

Since that first night, I never missed a chance to visit the grove and Krishna by the words of
the Master or one of his great pupil in farther into the teaching be.

While my husband was away even now, the fear of citizens before the robbers got Kosambis Angulimala
from day to day. Precisely because of new acts nothing rumored, was
the Imagination excited.

Suddenly, the rumor spread, Angulimala wanted one evening Hain attacked the Krishna and gathered
there to visit people, I suppose even the Buddha even kidnap. This tempers the excitement of
the increased almost to the turmoil. Man told himself that if by wicked hands of robbers before
the sublime Kosambi geschähe a sorrow, then would meet the wrath of the gods the city.

Vast crowds surged through the streets, and, in the royal palace gathering, they demanded menacingly that
avert this disaster and make King Udana Angulimala harmless should.

On the following day returned Satagira.

He overwhelmed me immediately with praise for my good council, which he wanted to thank alone,
that he came home safely. Vajira, his second wife, who appeared with her little son in her arms,
to welcome him, was dispatched in short, he did discuss with me the
more important.

When we were alone again, he began to my unspeakable discomfort immediately, from his Love talking about
how he missed me on the way, how much he to this hour of reunion 've got.

I was about to talk about the riots in the city, to bring him to other thoughts, was reported
as the eunuch, who called him king.

After about an hour he came back - a different person. Pale, came with troubled trains he at me,
threw himself on a bench and shouted that he was the most miserable man in the whole Rich, a
fallen greatness, now a beggar, if not prison or exile he is threatened,
and to all his misfortune was his boundless love to blame me, I do
not even reply.

On my repeated requests to tell me what had happened, calmed he finally arrived, that he, among
many outbreaks, and despair as he continually wiped the sweat from
his brow, I was able to report the whole process in the palace.

The king had received him very ungracious, and without some of the
arbitrated dispute village to want to hear, offered him under threats
to admit the full truth about Angulimala, the Satagira now had to
confess to me, not knowing how well I already informed them was.

By the way he saw it as just a proof of his "boundless love" to me,
and mentioned my love for you lightly as a foolish Jugendschwärmerei
that, anyway to do would have led.

The thing was what came in the following ways at the King's ears.

During the absence Satagira had succeeded to the police, the accomplices Angulimala detect,
and this was reaffirmed in embarrassing interrogation that those robbers really Angulimala
himself was, at that time not as the Minister had always claimed,
died under torture, but had fled, and those on the fence Angulimala
Krishna Hain had he known.

The prince was of course to the highest angered that Satagira the
time the terrible Robbers had let slip and then all of Kosambi and
his king by a slip false head had cheated, and he wanted no words
of defense or even the Sorry to hear.

If not destroyed within three days Satagira Angulimala made - as the people demanded it so rough
- then it would follow all of the royal displeasure again sensitive meeting.

After Satagira had told this, he threw himself weeping on the bench, tore his hair and behaved
like a madman.

"Be easy, my husband," I said. "Follow my advice, and not in three days, but today you shall
again be in possession of the royal favor, not only that, but this
is more radiant shine upon you, than ever before.

"

Satagira sat up and looked at me like that again gazed a natural wonder.

"And what do you advise me?"

"You shall return to the king and persuaded him, after the Sinsapawalde
before the city to go to visit there at the old temple and the Buddha
to ask him for advice.

The rest will then follow by itself. "

"You're a smart woman," said Satagira. "Anyway, this advice is very good because of that Buddha
is said to be the wisest of all men. While it is hardly as good consequences for I may have,
as you are thinking, will I make the attempt. "

"The fact that the consequences will be inevitable," I replied, "that
I am one with my honor."

"I think Vasitthi," he exclaimed, as he jumped up and grabbed my hand. "How about possible for you
not to believe. When Indra! You are a wonderful woman, and I see now how little I was wrong when
I was in my inexperienced youth, such as obeying an instinct, from
the rich Mädchenflor Kosambis you alone ausersah and me by your coldness
of my love was not deterred.

"

The ardor with which he praised me, made me almost regret that I was
the helpful Council had given, but even his next words reassured me,
for he now spoke of his gratitude that would be inexhaustible, on
which sample I asked them too.

"Only one request I have, through their performance you gave me your gratitude sufficiently can testify.
"

"Call me immediately," he said, "and if you ask too that I Vajira with her son send back to their
parents, so I'll do it without fail. "

"My plea is a fair, not unfair, but I will say only when My advice has proven to the fullest
extent. But now you hurry to the palace and put the Prince through this visit. "

Pretty soon he came back, happy that he had succeeded, the king on
this trip to determine.

"First heard as Udena that the Council proceeded from you," he said,
"and that you are with your glory up vouched for the good success,
he gave in, because he thinks highly of you.

Oh, how proud I am of such a wife! "

These and similar words, where he was missing in his confident mood were embarrassed enough
and it would have been more, if I do this whole thing my secret thoughts
would have been.

We went immediately to the palace now, where were already made preparations
for the trip.

As soon as the rays of the sun's heat slightly softened, ascended
King Udena his state elephant, the much vaunted Bhaddavatika that
because she was already very old, only in the most solemn Occasions
was used.

We, the Treasurer, the Treasurer and other senior dignitaries followed in the car, opened
two hundred horsemen and as many adopted the train.

At the entrance of the forest, the king kneel Bhaddavatika and dismounted, leaving the rest of us
the car and went in his entourage on foot to the Krishna temple where the Buddha, the from royal
visits have taught, was surrounded by his disciples to expect.

The king offered the sublime is respectful greeting and sat down to
one side.

Now when we had taken another course, asked the Perfect:

"What is
nobler king Hat?

As the king of Benares, or any other of your princely Neighbors, your country is threatening with
war?

"Nothing has, O Lord, the King of Benares, nor any of my neighbors princely me Endangered:
a robber, Lord lives called, in my country, Angulimala, cruel and
bloodthirsty, accustomed to murder and manslaughter, without compassion
for people and animals.

Which makes the villages undörflich, unstädtlich the cities, countries unländlich. He kills people
and hangs her thumb around the neck.

And in spite of his heart, he has now formed the plan of this sacred Hain to attack and kidnap
the sublime and his followers. Whether such a great danger shocked murmur my people crowded
into large flocks around my palace and demands that I do this Angulimala harmless. This is so
me alone in mind. "

"If you saw but, noble king, Angulimala, with shaved hair and beard,
with pale robe clothed, alienated from the killing, stealing weaned,
satisfied with a meal, chaste walking, pure virtue, a nature noble,
what would you do with him?

"We would be him, O Lord, welcome respectfully, to rise against him
and invite him to sit ask him to dress, to accept food, medicine and
stock in the event of a disease, would him, as is fitting, can be
bestowed and ward and care.

But how should o Sir, such a vexation, vicious man suffered such virtue purification? "

Now, however, sat the venerable Angulimala not far from sublime.

And the Master pointed the right arm back and spoke thus to King Udena:

"This, my noble prince, Angulimala is."

Since the king's face whitened with fear. But far more was the horror Satagira. His eyes seemed
to want to jump out of their sockets, his hair stood on end to cold
sweat dripped from his forehead.

"Woe is me," he said, "Yes, that is certainly Angulimala, and I wretch
my king tempted to go into his power.

"

It's him I saw only too clearly that he only so trembled with fear because he imagined themselves
at the mercy of his mortal enemy.

"This terrible," he further said, "has deceived us all - is the sublime self-deceived and my
gullible wife, who, like all women, a lot of conversion stories There. So we went into this
trap. "

And his eyes wandered, as if behind every tree, he discovered half
a dozen robbers.

With a faltering voice and trembling hands, he implored the king, by his hasty flight expensive
person to safety.

As I stepped forward then and said:

"Be still, my husband, I am able to convince both you as my noble
prince, that this is not the case has been laid and that no danger.
"

And I told now, as I do, persuaded by Angulimala, with him a stop
measures have against the life of my husband had, and how this attack
just only by the Conversion of my allies had been thwarted.

As Satagira
heard how close he was to death, he was on the arm of Chamberlain
Based not about to fall down.

I then asked the king his knees to
forgive my husband, as I have forgiven him, because he had sinned
misled by passion and it probably unconsciously higher Guidance was
followed, which wanted to act before our eyes, the highest miracle:
for that one a robber would have executed had now become a robber
a saint.

And when the Lord had graciously promised me, my husband
again apply all his favor, I said to Satagira:

"My promise I have
kept now. This also think that you and your grant me my only Please.
This is but then, thou mayest allow to enter the Holy Order of the
Buddha. "

With a silent nod Satagira gave his consent, how could
he do otherwise.

The king, who had now calmed down quite came, approached
Angulimala, spoke kindly and deferential to him and assured him of
his royal protection. Then he went back to the Buddha down, bowed
deeply and said:

"Wonderful it is, indeed, O Lord, as tame as the
unruly sublime. Angulimala For this, we could overcome neither punishment
nor sword, which the Almighty without penalty and Sword conquered.
This double and triple sacred grove, however, where such a miracle
to us was known, is from today are for all time the Order of the Saints.
And the Master may allow me, is a building on the accommodation of
the monks and the other for the nuns to build. "

With graceful Dankbezeugung
took the sublime to the princely gift. It recommended the king and
departed with his entourage. But I remained under the care of the
attending nurses to on the following day to place the vows.

XLI.
OF LIGHT AWARD

I had now become a religious sister and I went every
day early in the morning with my begging bowl to Kosambi, where I
went from house to house, until it was filled - though Satagira me
this Begging would have saved more than happy.

One day I stood out
even at the entrance of his palace, as the oldest nuns had advised
me to submit to me this test. Since Satagira just stepped into the
Gateway important to me but from shy and hid his face sad. Right after
that came the Meier house, and asked me crying, but yes to allow,
that all what I use, I will be sent daily. I answered him that it
is proper to me, the Rule comply.

When I returned from this walk
and had consumed the donated, which then for all day the miserable
question of food was done, I was one of the older nuns informed, and
at night I listened to the words in the Assembly or of the sublime
those of a great disciple, as Sariputta or Ananda. After it happened,
however well that a The other sister visited "Adorable, sister, is
the Sinsapawald, wonderfully clear Moon, the trees are in bloom, heavenly
scents, says one, waving around. The rich measure of
praise elsewhere bestowed upon the volume would leave us no alternative but the conclusion
that Tennyson was childish enough to maintain his silence for a decade because Lockhart took
liberties with his poems instead of joining the chorus of adulation. We know that there were
other and stronger reasons for Tennyson's silence and we also know that the effect of Lockhart's
article was decidedly salutary. When the next collection of Poems (1842) did appear, the shorter
pieces ridiculed by Lockhart were omitted, and the derided passages in the longer poems were
altered.

We may, without conscientious scruples, take Mr. Andrew Lang's advice, and enjoy a laugh over
Lockhart's performance. Its mock appreciations are, perhaps, far-fetched at times; but there
are enough effective passages to give zest to the article. It has been said in all seriousness
that Lockhart failed to appreciate the beauty of most of Tennyson's lines, and that he confined
his remarks to the most assailable passages. Surely, when a critic undertakes to write a mock-appreciation,
he will not quote the best verses, to the detriment of his plan. The poet must see to it that
his volume does not contain enough absurdities to form a sufficient basis for such an article.
There is a striking contrast to the humor of Lockhart in the little-known review of the same
volume by the Literary Gazette, 1833, pp. (772-774). The latter seized upon some crudities
that had escaped the Quarterly's notice, and, with characteristic brutality, decided that the
poet was insane and needed a low diet and a cell.

Although the reception accorded to Poems (1842) was generally favorable, the publication of
The Princess in 1847 afforded the critics another opportunity to lament Tennyson's inequalities.
The spirit of the review of The Princess here reprinted from the Literary Gazette of August
8, 1848, is practically identical with that of the Athenæum on January 6, 1848, but specifies
more clearly the critic's objections to the medley. It is noteworthy that Lord Tennyson made
extensive changes in subsequent editions of The Princess, but left unaltered all of the passages
to which the Literary Gazette took exception. The beautiful threnody In Memoriam (1850) and
Tennyson's elevation to the laureateship in the same year established his position as the leading
poet of the time; but the appearance of Maud in 1856 proved to be a temporary check to his
popularity. A few personal friends admired it and praised its fine lyrics; but as a dramatic
narrative it failed to please the reviews. The most interesting of the critiques (unfortunately
too long to be reprinted here) appeared in Blackwood's Magazine, XLI (311-321), of September,
1855,--a forcible, well-written article, which, incidentally, shows how much the magazine had
improved in respectability since the days of the lampooners of Byron, Shelley, and Keats. The
authorship of the article has not been disclosed, but we know that W.E. Aytoun asked permission
of the proprietor to review Tennyson's Maud. (See Mrs. Oliphant's William Blackwood and his
Sons.) The publication of the Idylls of the King (1859), turned the tide more strongly than
before in Tennyson's favor, and subsequent fault-finding on the part of the critics was confined
largely to his dramas.

153. Catullus. See Catullus, II and III--(Passer, deliciæ meæ puellæ, and Lugete, O Veneres
Cupidinesque).

153. Είθε λύρη, κ. τ. λ. Usually found in the remains of Alcæus. Thomas Moore translates it
with his Odes of Anacreon (LXXVII), beginning "Would that I were a tuneful lyre," etc. Lockhart
proceeds to ridicule Tennyson for wishing to be a river, which is not what the quoted lines
state. Nor does Tennyson "ambition a bolder metamorphosis" than his predecessors. Anacreon
(Ode XXII) wishes to be a stream, as well as a mirror, a robe, a pair of sandals and sundry
other articles. See Moore's interesting note.

155. Non omnis moriar. Horace, Odes, III, 30, 6.

156. Tongues in trees, etc. Shakespeare's As You Like It, II, 1, 17.

157. Aristæus. A minor Grecian divinity, worshipped as the first to introduce the culture of bees.

164. Dionysius Periegetes. Author of περιήγησις τῆς γῆς, a description of the earth in hexameters,
usually published with the scholia of Eustathius and the Latin paraphrases of Avienus and Priscian.
For the account of Æthiopia, see also Pausanias, I, 33, 4.

167. The Rovers. The Rovers was a parody on the German drama of the day, published in the Anti-Jacobin
(1798) and written by Frere, Canning and others. It is reprinted in Charles Edmund's Poetry
of the Anti-Jacobin. The chorus of conspirators is at the end of Act IV.

169. The Groves of Blarney. An old Irish song. A version may be seen in the Antiquary, I, p.
199. The quotation by Lockhart differs somewhat from the corresponding stanza of the cited version.

170. Corporal Trim. In Sterne's Tristram Shandy.

173. Christopher North. John Wilson, of Blackwood's Magazine.

ROBERT BROWNING

The reviews of Browning's poems are singularly uninteresting from a historical standpoint.
There is usually a protest against the obscurity of the poetry and a plea that the author should
make better use of his manifest genius. For details concerning these reviews, see the bibliography
of Browning in Nicoll and Wise's Literary Anecdotes of the Nineteenth Century. The list there
given is extensive, but does not include several of the reviews mentioned below.

The early poems were so abstruse that the critics were unable to make sport of them as they
did in the case of Wordsworth, Byron, Tennyson, and the rest; and when Browning finally deigned
to write within range of the average human intellect, that particular style of reviewing had
lost favor. His earliest publication, Pauline (1832) was well received by W.J. Fox in Monthly
Repository, and in the Athenæum. Tait's Edinburgh Magazine called it a "piece of pure bewilderment."
See also the brief notice in the Literary Gazette, 1833, p. 183. Paracelsus (1835) had a similar
experience; the reprint from the Athenæum, 1835, p. 640, is fairly characteristic of the rest,
among which are the articles in the Monthly Repository, 1835, p. 716; the Christian Remembrancer,
XX, p. 346, and the reviews written by John Forster for the Examiner, 1835, p. 563, and the
New Monthly Magazine, XLVI (289-308).

Neither the favorable review of Sordello (1840) in the Monthly Rev., 1840, II, p. 149, nor
the partly appreciative article in the Athenæum, 1840, p. 431, seems to warrant the well-known
anecdotes relating the difficulties of Douglas Jerrold and Tennyson in attempting to understand
that poem. The Athenæum gave the poet sound advice, especially in regard to the intentional
obscurity of his meaning. That this admonition was futile may be gathered from the Saturday
Review's article (I, p. 69) on Men and Women (1855) published fifteen years after Sordello.
The critic reverted to the earlier style, and produced one of the most readable reviews of
Browning. Whatever may be the final verdict yet to be passed upon Browning's poetic achievement,
the fact remains that the contemporary reviews from first to last deplored in his work a deliberate
obscurity which was wholly unwarranted and which precluded the universal appeal that is essential
to a poet's greatness.

189. Della Crusca of Sentimentalism. Robert Merry (1755-1798) under the name Della Crusca became
the leader of a set of poetasters who flourished during the poetic dearth at the end of the
eighteenth century and poured forth their rubbish until William Gifford exposed their follies
in his satires The Baviad (1794) and The Mæviad (1795).

189. Alexander Smith. A Scotch poet (1830-1867).

189. Mystic of Bailey. Philip James Bailey (1816-1902), best known as the author of Festus,
published The Mystic in 1855.

192. Hudibras Butler, etc. Samuel Butler, author of Hudibras (1663-78); Richard H. Barham,
author of the Ingoldsby Legends (1840); and Thomas Hood, author of Whims and Oddities (1826-27).
These poets are cited by the reviewer for their skill with unusual metres and difficult rhymes. We
took off for both, accompanied by four robbers, who with her skin for our secure Arrival in Ujjeni
liable. For Angulimala, the robber was about his honor very concerned promised them as he passed
us, if I would not be delivered safely in my home town, they pull the skin over the ears and
hang their heads at the four corners of the Cross; and it was known that he always kept his promises.
Fortunately, that is not here necessary, and the four companions who were traveling very bravely,
like later this his moment in the service of schädelhalsbandschüttelnden dancer.

Ujjeni we reached without further adventure, and I had, in fact, even the experienced enough.
The joy of my parents to see me was indescribable. The more impossible was to wrest them permission
to do again soon travel to Kosambi. My father had other than the not inconsiderable sum of
all goods release my caravan and lost all the people and was not soon able to equip a new caravan.
But this was only a small obstacle in relation to the horror at the thought of my parents overcame
the dangers of the road. Also heard from you and always with terrible deeds Angulimala, and I can
not deny that I am much coveted, once again in his Hands to fall. to leave a message after Kosambi
go, there was that time fully no way, so I had to make do with because of memory and confidence
in solid on the loyalty of my adored Vasitthi me put off until better times.

This came at last, too.

One day, flew like wildfire the message through the city, is again of the terrible Angulimala Satagira,
the son of the minister in Kosambi, Principal beaten, slaughtered or dispersed the gang, but
the chief with many of the most outstanding Robbers were captured and executed.

Now my parents could not resist my stormy requests. You had in Indeed good reason to believe
that now free for a long time the streets would be, and my Father was not unwilling to try again
with a caravan of his fortune. Since I was overcome a sudden illness, and when I got back from
camp, was the rainy season already so close moved in that they only had to wait. Then I left
nothing standing but also more contrary. With many exhortations to be careful, my parents took leave
of me, and I found myself back on the road at the head of a well-equipped caravan of thirty
bullock carts, joyful and courageous heart, and driven by a burning desire.

Our trip went so smoothly, like the first time, and on a fine morning, I went, half-mad with joy,
in a Kosambi. Here I saw an unusual crush of people will soon in the streets. I came forward as a result
more and more slowly until my train at a point where he had to cross a main thoroughfare of the
city, and finally to a complete stand still was taken. It was absolutely impossible to penetrate
through the crowd, and I noticed now that the former main road through flagpoles, from windows
and balconies hanging carpet stretched across garlands adorned again was magnificent - as for
any lift. Cursing with impatience, I asked myself standing in front of what was going on.

"Oh," they cried, "you do not know, then, that today Satagira, the son of the minister, his marriage
celebrating? You can praise you happy to have arrived just in time because The train is now
passing from the Krishna temple here, and you certainly have such a magnificent yet never seen.
"

Satagira that had the wedding, I was an important and welcome news, because his Woo my Vasitthi
with their parents one of the biggest obstacles to our union would have been. So I left because
I liked the wait, the more so as it does not take long could, for already the spearheads of a cavalry
division were visible under the deafening Cheers traveled by. These riders enjoyed, as I was told
the greatest popularity in Kosambi, mainly because they were, the
band Angulimala had rendered harmless.

Almost immediately after them came the elephant, carrying the bride - but an overwhelming Sight.
The gnarled, hill-like forehead of the giant beast was the gods like Mount Meru, covered with
a pile of mannigfarbigen precious stones. As with a fervent Ilfenstier the juice at the temples
and cheeks herabträufelt, and swarms of bees, sweet scent of his attracted, it depends, in this
case shone temples and cheeks of the most wonderful Beads and more transparent dangling pendants
of black diamonds - an effect that the crying was beautiful. The mighty tusks were covered with the
finest gold, and was from the same noble metals with large rubies breast plate from which the fragrant blue
Benaresmusselin hung, and the strong legs of the animal - such as
morning fog, the trees - easily walled.

But it was the trunk of an elephant country, especially my view of the bound. Even at home, Ujjeni
in, I had very beautiful decorations during processions of the elephant's trunk seen, but never
one that would have been as tasty as this. For us that is was the trunk divided into fields, which
some formed a fine pattern, and was so completely with Color cover. But here, the skin was left
open as a base, and this branch-like The reason was a loose Laubgeranke slung from Asokablättern
lanceolate, from yellow, orange and scarlet flowers shone forth -
all in a delicious variety of ornamental Stylization run.

While I studied with an eye of a connoisseur, this miracle, there came a faint and even Feeling about
me, as I speak all the love that smell of blessed nights on the terrace breathed again. My heart
began to beat violently as I involuntarily at my own wedding could not help thinking, for which
jewelry was invented fittingly for the animal, which one day Vasitthi
should bear, as even this, since because of the "Terrace of the Sorrowless"
their wonderful Asokablüten throughout Kosambi was famous?

In this almost dream-like state I heard a woman next to me said to another:

"But the bride - but does not look happy!"

Instinctively I looked up, and a strange eerie feeling crept over me, when I became aware of the
figure, sitting there under the purple canopy. Gestalt say I - I could not see his face because
his head had fallen forward on his chest - but also a figure seen little, and it seemed that in that
mass of rainbow-colored Muslin, though a body, but not gifted with a lively, robust force stuck.
The way how she swayed to and fro in the movements of the animal whose powerful steps in the
tent on his back strong swings offset was something unspeakably Sad, almost blood-curdling
something in itself.

One might have expected, in fact, that they down-fall in the next moment would. Such fear also
liked the behind her Related servant move, because they took the
bride's shoulders and bowed to her prior to whisper to her words of
encouragement in his ear.

An icy shock paralyzed me when I was in this supposed servant - recognized Medini. And before
me was this idea have grown substantially, the bride Satagira had raised his head.

It was my Vasitthi.

XII.

The tomb of Saint VAJAÇRAVAS

Yes, it was her. No opportunity to deceive in these features - and yet they were similar themselves
do not and in fact resembled nothing I had ever seen in such a nameless, of human misery they seemed
to be petrified.

When I regained consciousness, just pulled the last pass of the train.
You wrote my fainting from the heat and crowds to.

I will-let me in the next Caravanserai bring.

Here I threw myself down in the darkest corner, turned her face to the wall, and remained when
bathed in tears, and disdaining all the food, lying for days after I that old Servants and caravan
leader, who accompanied me on the first ride, instruct had, as soon as possible and strike even in
poor conditions, our products, because I was too sick to leave me with shops. In fact, I could
only think incomprehensible loss, think, and I did not want me to show in the city to be recognized
by no one be. Because I wanted to avoid above all that Vasitthi learned of my presence something.

Her
image, as I last saw floated away from me for before the soul. Well, I was over their fickleness,
or rather indignant their weakness, for I saw clearly that only the last was in question, and the
insistence of the parents that they had been unable to resist. That She had not the triumphant
minister's son turned her heart, which witnessed its position and facial expression clearly
enough.

However, if I remembered her as the shining groves Krishna Look had me sworn eternal fidelity, I did
not understand how it was possible that they yielded as soon had, and I said, among bitter
sigh, that on Mädchenschwüre was not reliable.

But time and again appeared that face full of deep sorrow in front of me - and now then at any
resentment was scared, but the deepest sympathy towards him flowed; and I firmly resolved not
to increase her grief even more that of my current Their presence in Kosambi incidents were heard.
Never again should they learn of me; surely they would then believe that I had died, and in
their fate, which it so not in outward splendor was missing, resulting gradually.

A favorable circumstance would have it, my old servant unexpected
speed, the goods are very advantageous traded or sold, so I after
a few days in the early morning with Kosambi was able to leave my
caravan.

As I was now also going through the western gate, I turned around and threw a last look at the city
where the walls I experienced as memorable of joy and sorrow had. A few days ago when I moved in,
I was so caught in eager anticipation was that I had had for anything near an eye. So I was because
now the the first time realized that not only the battlements of the gate, but also the boundary
wall to both Pages with impaled human heads adorned was terrible?

No doubt - they were the heads of the executed robber Angulimala the gang!

For the first time since I seen Vasitthis face under the canopy, filled
me now a different feeling than that of grief by me with unspeakable
horror these heads considered, of which the vultures had long since
left only the bones left and no more than yet the braids here and
there or a beard, had protected its earthiness his territory.

They would all have been unknowable, if not by a wild, red beard, another by the type of ascetic
lichens carrier at the apex of the coiled braids would reveal. These two and no doubt many
of the others had me often in the nightly round nodded comrade, and I remembered with appalling
vividness, like this red beard, sparkling in the moonlight, in that lecture about the stupidity of
the Night watchman had wobbled before gaiety, almost I fancied the lipless mouth still hear
the roaring laughter.

But on the average Torzinne shone a little elevated above the other, a powerful skull in the
rays of the rising sun and moved imperiously my whole attention. How could I not recognize these
forms? The was who brought us the time to laugh had, without moving a muscle of his own narrow view
Brahma. Vajaçravas' head dominated attached here, while the Angulimala doubt over the eastern
gate was.

And a strange feeling crept over me at the thought of how thoroughly he was once the various
explicit types of death penalties had - four parts, ripping by dogs, the impalement, the beheading
- and how carefully he wanted to justify the fact that the robbers who were not must be caught,
but if he was caught trying ever had, by all means to escape. Oh!
What had helped him to his science?

So little can man his to escape fate, this is only the fruit of our actions - be it in this, whether
in a previous life!

And I felt as if he carried his empty eye sockets looking at me at
all seriously, and his half-open mouth, called to me: "... Kamanita
Kamanita consider myself well, watch well! on this sight!

You too, my son, born under a star predators, you too will the return paths Kalis enter, and
just like me here, you also will once again end somewhere. "

But strangely enough, this fantasy, which was as lively as a sensory perception, filled me with horror
and shudder. My supposedly prescribed robbers career, which I had never given a serious thought,
suddenly found not only in serious, but even in light of tempting me.

Robber chief - What could be more desirable to me miserable? For this I did not doubt Moment,
that I with my many skills and knowledge, and especially with those
I owed to the teaching of the venerable Vajaçravas occupy a leading
position would.

And what position would be for me because of a robber chief, the same? Was it even the estimate
of a king, however small. Because I was able to gain revenge on Satagira?
Could Vasitthi lead in my arms?

I saw myself in the middle of the forest in the struggle with Satagira, which I split with a
massive sword blow to the skull, and then I saw me as I Vasitthi the fainting in my arms from
the burning of robbers votes echoing palace kidnapped.

For the first
Maie since that pitiful sight my heart was brave and hopeful again
a future with, for the first time I did not want me to death, but
life.

Filled with such images, I had moved almost a thousand steps
further than I in front of me the road holding a saw coming from the
opposite side of caravan, while the leader on a small hill immediately
appeared on the road was offering a sacrifice. 

We already had the area of ​​habitual Schlittschuhlaeufer behind us, no Breeze is stirring, the
white frosted reeds, which are largely runs along the shore, glistening brilliant in the slanting sun
rays. He stripped the whole Night
restlessly around on the beach and kept coming back to the stone on which the Virgin had been sitting
- but the stone was cold and empty. In the morning he laid himself down a little, but troubled
dreams disturbed his sleep.