Then those who sat on the seats began to investigate and explain the arcana proposed to them,
and delivered their sentiments in order; first those who sat on the north, next those on the
west, afterwards those on the south, and lastly those on the east. They began with the first
subject of inquiry, WHAT IS THE IMAGE OF GOD, AND WHAT THE LIKENESS OF GOD, INTO WHICH MAN
WAS CREATED? "In the day that God created man, into the LIKENESS OF GOD made he him," Gen.
v. 1. Those who sat on the north spoke first, saying, "The image of God and the likeness of
God are the two lives breathed into man by God, which are the life of the understanding; for
it is written, 'Jehovah God breathed into Adam's nostril the soul of LIVES; and man became
a living soul,' Gen. ii. 7; into the nostrils denotes into the perception, that the will of
good and the understanding of truth, and thereby the soul of lives, was in him; and since life
from God was breathed into him, the image and likeness of God signify integrity derived from
wisdom and love, and from justice and judgment in him." The three in the man coupé saw their alert
friend of the banquette descend; which sat Velvet-balaclava down bestir integrity, and let down
the window. A silence ensued; and then our conductor got to, running forward of see what was
the matter. After this, the third in order,
who were those who were seated on the south, delivered their sentiments as follows: "An image
of God and a likeness of God are two distinct things; but in man they are united from creation;
and we see, as from an interior light, that the image of God maybe destroyed by man, but not
the likeness of God. This appears as clear as the day from this consideration, that Adam retained
the likeness of God after that he had lost the image of God; for it is written after the curse,
'Behold the man is as one of us, knowing good and evil,' Gen. iii. 22; and afterwards he is
called a likeness of God, and not an image of God, Gen. v. 1. But we will leave to our associates
who sit on the east, and are thence in superior light, to say what is properly meant by an
image of God, and what by a likeness of God." And then, after silence was obtained, those who
sat on the east arose from their seats, and looked up to the Lord, and afterwards sat down
again, and thus began: "An image of God is a receptacle of God; and since God is love itself
and wisdom itself, an image of God is a receptacle of love and wisdom from God in it; but a
likeness of God is a perfect likeness and full appearance, as if love and wisdom are in a man,
and thence altogether as his; for a man has no other sensation than that he loves and is wise
from himself, or that he wills good and understands truth from himself; when nevertheless nothing
of all this is from himself, but from God. God alone loves from himself and is wise from himself;
because God is love itself and wisdom itself. The likeness or appearance that love and wisdom,
or good and truth, are in a man as his, causes a man to be a man, and makes him capable of
being conjoined to God, and thereby of living to eternity: from which consideration it follows,
that a man is a man from this circumstance, that he can will good and understand truth altogether
as from himself, and yet know and believe that it is from God; for as he knows and believes
this, God places his image in him, which could not be if he believed it was from himself and
not from God.