Napoleon, smiling, thanked the patriotic countrymen, and glancing towards the little country
house, built on the edge of the highway, spoke to General Berthier, saying, "This is where
I wish my headquarters established."  Then he spurred his horse and rode off, while a general
and some officers remained to execute the order of the First Consul, who, on the very night
of his arrival at Boulogne, returned to sleep at Pont de Brique.

They related to me at Boulogne the details of a naval combat which had taken place a short
time before our arrival between the French fleet, commanded by Admiral Bruix,  and the English
squadron with which Nelson blockaded the port of Boulogne.  I will relate this as told to me,
deeming very unusual the comfortable mode in which the French admiral directed the operations
of the sailors.

About two hundred boats, counting gunboats and mortars, barges and sloops, formed the line
of defense, the shore and the forts bristling with batteries.  Some frigates advanced from
the hostile line, and, preceded by two or three brigs, ranged themselves in line of battle
before us and in reach of the cannon of our flotilla; and the combat began.  Balls flew in
every direction.  Nelson, who had promised the destruction of the flotilla, re-enforced his
line of battle with two other lines of vessels and frigates; and thus placed en echelon, they
fought with a vastly superior force.  For more than seven hours the sea, covered with fire
and smoke, offered to the entire population of Boulogne the superb and frightful spectacle
of a naval combat in which more than eighteen hundred cannon were fired at the same time; but
the genius of Nelson could not avail against our sailors or soldiers.  Admiral Bruix was at
his headquarters near the signal station, and from this position directed the fight against
Nelson, while drinking with his staff and some ladies of Boulogne whom he had invited to dinner.
The guests sang the early victories of the First Consul, while the admiral, without leaving
the table, maneuvered the flotilla by means of the signals he ordered. Nelson, eager to conquer,
ordered all his naval forces to advance; but the wind being in favor of the French, he was
not able to keep the promise he had made in London to burn our fleet, while on the contrary
many of his own boats were so greatly damaged, that Admiral Bruix, seeing the English begin
to retire, cried "Victory!" pouring out champagne for his guests.  The French flotilla suffered
very little, while the enemy's squadron was ruined by the steady fire, of our stationary batteries.
On that day the English learned that they could not possibly approach the shore at Boulogne,
which after this they named the Iron Coast (Cote de Fer).

When the First Consul left Boulogne, he made his arrangements to pass through Abbeville, and
to stop twenty four hours there.  The mayor of the town left nothing undone towards a suitable
reception, and Abbeville was magnificent on that day.  The finest trees from the neighboring
woods were taken up bodily with their roots to form avenues in all the streets through which
the First Consul was to pass; and some of the citizens, who owned magnificent gardens, sent
their rarest shrubs to be displayed along his route; and carpets from the factory of Hecquet-Dorval
were spread on the ground, to be trodden by his horses.  But unforeseen circumstances suddenly
cut short the fete.

A courier, sent by the minister of police,  arrived as we were approaching the town, who notified
the First Consul of a plot to assassinate him two leagues farther on; the very day and hour
were named. To baffle the attempt that they intended against his person, the First Consul traversed
the city in a gallop, and, followed by some lancers, went to the spot where he was to be attacked,
halted about half an hour, ate some Abbeville cakes, and set out.  The assassins were deceived.
They had not expected his arrival until the next day.

The First Consul and Madame Bonaparte continued their journey through Picardy, Flanders, and
the Low Countries.  Each day the First Consul received offers of vessels of war from the different
council-generals, the citizens continued to offer him addresses, and the mayors to present
him with the keys of the cities, as if he exercised royal power.  Amiens, Dunkirk, Lille, Bruges,
Ghent, Brussels, Liege, and Namur distinguished themselves by the brilliant receptions they
gave to the illustrious travelers.  The inhabitants of Antwerp presented the First Consul with
six magnificent bay horses.  Everywhere also, the First Consul left valuable souvenirs of his
journey; and by his orders, works were immediately commenced to deepen and improve the port
of Amiens.  He visited in that city, and in all the others where he stopped, the exposition
of the products of industry, encouraging manufacturers by his advice, and favoring them in
his decrees.  At Liege, he put at the disposal of the prefect of the Our the the sum of three
hundred thousand francs to repair the houses burned by the Austrians, in that department, during
the early years of the Revolution.  Antwerp owes to him the inner port, a basin, and the building
of carpenter-shops.  At Brussels, he ordered that the Rhine, the Meuse, and the Scheldt should
be connected by a canal.  He gave to Givet a stone bridge over the Meuse, and at Sedan the
widow Madame Rousseau received from him the sum of sixty thousand francs for the re-establishment
of the factory destroyed by fire. Indeed, I cannot begin to enumerate all the benefits, both
public and private, which the First Consul and Madame Bonaparte scattered along their route.

A little while after our return to Saint-Cloud, the First Consul, while riding in the park
with his wife and Cambaceres, took a fancy to drive the four horses attached to the carriage
which had been given him by the inhabitants of Antwerp.  He took his place on the driver's
seat, and took the reins from the hands of Caesar, his coachman, who got up behind the carriage.
At that instant they were in the horse-shoe alley, which leads to the road of the Pavilion
Breteuil, and of Ville d'Avray.  It is stated in the Memorial of St. Helena, that the aide-de-camp,
having awkwardly frightened the horses, made them run away; but Caesar, who related to me in
detail this sad disaster a few moments after the accident had taken place, said not a word
to me about the aide-de-camp; and, in truth, there was needed, to upset the coach, nothing
more than the awkwardness of a coachman with so little experience as the First Consul.  Besides,
the horses were young and spirited, and Caesar himself needed all his skill to guide them.
Not feeling his hand on the reins, they set out at a gallop, while Caesar, seeing the new direction
they were taking to the right, cried out, "To the left," in a stentorian voice.  Consul Cambaceres,
even paler than usual, gave himself little concern as to reassuring Madame Bonaparte, who was
much alarmed, but screamed with all his might, "Stop, stop!  you will break all our necks!"
That might well happen, for the First Consul heard nothing, and, besides, could not control
the horses; and when he reached, or rather was carried with the speed of lightning to, the
very gate, he was not able to keep in the road, but ran against a post, where the carriage
fell over heavily, and fortunately the horses stopped.  The First Consul was thrown about ten
steps, fell on his stomach, and fainted away, and did not revive until some one attempted to
lift him up.  Madame Bonaparte and the second consul had only slight contusions; but good Josephine
had suffered horrible anxiety about her husband.  However, although he was badly bruised, he
would not be bled, and satisfied himself with a few rubbings with eau de Cologne, his favorite
remedy.  That evening, on retiring, he spoke gayly of his misadventure, and of the great fright
that his colleague had shown, and ended by saying, "We must render unto Caesar that which is
Caesar's; let him keep his whip, and let us each mind his own business."

He admitted, however, notwithstanding all his jokes, that he had never thought himself so near
death, and that he felt as if he had been dead for a few seconds.  I do not remember whether
it was on this or another occasion that I heard the Emperor say, that "death was only asleep
without dreams."

In the month of October of this year, the First Consul received in public audience Haled-Effendi,
the ambassador of the Ottoman Porte.

The arrival of the Turkish ambassador created a sensation at the Tuileries, because he brought
a large number of cashmere shawls to the First Consul, which every one was sure would be distributed,
and each woman flattered herself that she would be favorably noticed.  I think that, without
his foreign costume, and without his cashmere shawls, he would have produced little effect
on persons accustomed to seeing sovereign princes pay court to the chief of the government
at his residence and at their own.  His costume even was not more remarkable than that of Roustan,
to which we were accustomed; and as to his bows, they were hardly lower than those of the ordinary
courtiers of the First Consul.  At Paris, it is said, the enthusiasm lasted longer--"It is
so odd to be a Turk!"  A few ladies had the honor of seeing the bearded ambassador eat.  He
was polite and even gallant with them, and made them a few presents, which were highly prized;
his manners were not too Mohammedan, and he was not much shocked at seeing our pretty Parisians
without veils over their faces.  One day, which he had spent almost entirely at Saint-Cloud,
I saw him go through his prayers.  It was in the court of honor, on a broad parapet bordered
with a stone balustrade.  The ambassador had carpets spread on the side of the apartments,
which were afterwards those of the King of Rome; and there he made his genuflexions, under
the eyes of many people of the house, who, out of consideration, kept themselves behind their
casements.  In the evening he was present at the theater, and Zaire or Mahomet, I think, was
played; but of course he understood none of it.

CHAPTER XII.

In the month of November of this year, the First Consul returned to Boulogne to visit the fleet,
and to review the troops who were already assembled in the camps provided for the army with
which he proposed to descend on England.  I have preserved a few notes and many recollections
of my different sojourns at Boulogne.  Never did the Emperor make a grander display of military
power; nor has there ever been collected at one point troops better disciplined or more ready
to march at the least signal of their chief; and it is not surprising that I should have retained
in my recollections of this period details which no one has yet, I think, thought of publishing.
Neither, if I am not mistaken, could any one be in a better position than I to know them. 
However, the reader will now judge for himself.

In the different reviews which the First Consul held, he seemed striving to excite the enthusiasm
of the soldiers, and to increase their attachment for his person, by assiduously taking advantage
of every opportunity to excite their vanity.

