Boscawen and Amherst were quite prepared for either surrender or assault. The storming parties
had their scaling-ladders ready. The Forlorn Hopes had been told off to lead the different
columns. Every gun was loaded, afloat and ashore. The fleet were waiting for the signal to
file in and turn a thousand cannon against the walls. Nothing was lacking for complete success.
On the other hand, their terms were also ready waiting. The garrison was to be sent to England
as prisoners of war. The West Gate was to be handed over to a British guard at eight the next
morning; and the French arms were to be laid down for good at noon. With this document the
British commanders sent in the following note:

   SIR,--We have the honour to send Your Excellency the
   signed articles of Capitulation.

   Lieutenant Colonel d'Anthony has spoken on behalf of
   the people in the town. We have no intention of
   molesting them; but shall give them all the protection
   in our power.

   Your Excellency will kindly sign the duplicate of the
   terms and send it back to us.

   It only remains for us to assure Your Excellency that
   we shall seize every opportunity of convincing you
   that we are, with the most perfect consideration, Your
   Excellency's most Obedient Servants,

   E. BOSCAWEN.
   J. AMHERST.

No terms were offered either to the Indians or to the armed Canadians, on account of Fort William
Henry; and it is certain that all these would have been put to the sword, to the very last
man, had Drucour decided to stand an assault. To the relief of every one concerned the Indians
paddled off quietly during the night, which luckily happened to be unusually dark and calm.
The Canadians either followed them or mingled with the unarmed inhabitants. This awkward problem
therefore solved itself.

Few went to bed that last French night in Louisbourg. All responsible officials were busy with
duties, reports, and general superintendence. The townsfolk and soldiery were restless and
inclined to drown their humiliation in the many little cabarets, which stood open all night.
A very different place, the parish church, was also kept open, and for a very different purpose.
Many hasty marriages were performed, partly from a wholly groundless fear of British licence,
and partly because those who wished to remain in Cape Breton thought they would not be allowed
to do so unless they were married.

Precisely at eight the next morning Major Farquhar drew up his grenadiers in front of the West
Gate, which was immediately surrendered to him. No one but the officers concerned witnessed
this first ceremony. But the whole population thronged every point of vantage round the Esplanade
to see the formal surrender at noon. All the British admirals and generals were present on
parade as Drucour stepped forward, saluted, and handed his sword to Boscawen. His officers
followed his example. Then the troops laid down their arms, in the ranks as they stood, many
dashing down their muskets with a muttered curse.

The French--naval, military, and civilian--were soon embarked. The curse of Louisbourg followed
most of them, in one form or another. The combatants were coldly received when they eventually
returned to France, in spite of their gallant defence, and in spite of their having saved Quebec
for that campaign. Several hundreds of the inhabitants were shipwrecked and drowned. One transport
was abandoned off the coast of Prince Edward Island, with the loss of two hundred lives. Another
sprang a leak as she was nearing England; whereupon, to their eternal dishonour, the crew of
British merchant seamen took all the boats and started to pull off alone. The three hundred
French prisoners, men, women, and children, crowded the ship's side and begged that, if they
were themselves to be abandoned, their priest should be saved. A boat reluctantly put back
for him. Then, leaving the ship to her fate, the crew pulled for Penzance, where the people
had just been celebrating the glorious victory of Louisbourg.

The French loss had been enough without this. About one in five of all the combatants had been
hit. Twice as many were on the sick list. Officers and men, officials and traders, fishermen
and other inhabitants, all lost something, in certain cases everything they had; and it was
to nothing but the sheer ruin of all French power beside the American Atlantic that Madame
Drucour waved her long white scarf in a last farewell.

France was stung to the quick. Her sea link gone, she feared that the whole of Canada would
soon be won by the same relentless British sea-power, which was quite as irresistible as it
was ubiquitous in the mighty hands of Pitt. So deeply did her statesmen feel her imminent danger
on the sea, and resent this particular British triumph in the world-wide 'Maritime War,' that
they took the unusual course of sending the following circular letter to all the Powers of Europe:

   We are advised that Louisbourg capitulated to the
   English on July 26, We fully realize the consequences
   of such a grave event. But we shall redouble our
   efforts to repair the misfortune.

   All commercial nations ought now to open their eyes
   to their own interests and join us in preventing the
   absolute tyranny which England will soon exercise on
   every sea if a stop be not put to her boundless avarice
   and ambition.

   For a century past the Powers of Europe have been
   crying out against France for disturbing the balance
   of power on the Continent. But while England was
   artfully fomenting this trouble she was herself engaged
   in upsetting that balance of power at sea without
   which these different nations' independent power on
   land cannot subsist. All governments ought to give
   their immediate and most serious attention to this
   subject, as the English now threaten to usurp the
   whole world's seaborne commerce for themselves.

While the French were taken up with unavailing protests and regrets the British were rejoicing
with their whole heart. Their loss had been small. Only a twentieth of their naval and military
total had been killed or wounded, or had died from sickness, during the seven weeks' siege.
Their gain had been great. The one real fortress in America, the last sea link between Old
France and New, the single sword held over their transatlantic shipping, was now unchallengeably
theirs.

The good news travelled fast. Within three weeks of the surrender the dispatches had reached
England. Defeats, disasters, and exasperating fiascos had been common since the war began.
But at last there was a genuine victory, British through and through, won by the Army and Navy
together, and won over the greatest of all rivals, France. 'When we lost Minorca,' said the
London Chronicle, just a month after the surrender, 'a general panic fell upon the nation;
but now that Louisbourg is taken our streets echo with triumph and blaze with illuminations.'
Loyal addresses poured in from every quarter. The king stood on the palace steps to receive
the eleven captured colours; and then, attended by the whole court, went in state to the royal
thanksgiving service held in St Paul's Cathedral.

