THE BELLS OF SAN JUAN

A Novel

by

JACKSON GREGORY

Author of Judith of Blue Lake Ranch, The Joyous Trouble Maker, Man to Man, etc.

Illustrated by Frank Tenney Johnson

New York Grosset & Dunlap Publishers

1919

[Frontispiece: Having come closer he reined in his horse, stared at her a moment in surprised
wonderment. . .]

TO

RODERICK NORTON GREGORY

CONTENTS

FOREWORD--THE BELLS

CHAPTER

     I.  THE BELLS RING
    II.  THE SHERIFF OF SAN JUAN
   III.  A MAN'S BOOTS
    IV.  AT THE BANKER'S HOME
     V.  IN THE DARKNESS OF THE PATIO
    VI.  A RIDE THROUGH THE NIGHT
   VII.  IN THE HOME OF CLIFF-DWELLERS
  VIII.  JIM GALLOWAY'S GAME
    IX.  YOUNG PAGE COMES TO TOWN
     X.  A BRIBE AND A THREAT
    XI.  THE FIGHT AT LA CASA BLANCA
   XII.  WAVERING IN THE BALANCE
  XIII.  CONCEALMENT
   XIV.  A FREE MAN
    XV.  THE KING'S PALACE
   XVI.  THE MEXICAN FROM MEXICO
  XVII.  A STACK OF GOLD PIECES
 XVIII.  DESIRE OUTWEIGHS DISCRETION
   XIX.  DEADLOCK
    XX.  FLUFF AND BLACK BILL
   XXI.  A CRISIS
  XXII.  THE BEGINNING OF THE END
 XXIII.  THE STRONG HAND OF GALLOWAY
  XXIV.  IN THE OPEN
   XXV.  THE BATTLE IN THE ARROYO
  XXVI.  THE BELLS RING

ILLUSTRATIONS

Having come closer he reined in his horse, stared at her a moment in surprised wonderment .
. . .  Frontispiece

Then came the second meeting with Jim Galloway

"Come, and I'll share my secret with you"

On through the bright moonlight came the sheriff's posse

FOREWORD

THE BELLS

He who has not heard the bells of San Juan has a journey yet to make. He who has not set foot
upon the dusty road which is the one street of San Juan, at times the most silent and deserted
of thoroughfares, at other times a mad and turbulent lane between sun-dried adobe walls, may
yet learn something of man and his hopes, desires, fears and ruder passions from a pin-point
upon the great southwestern map.

The street runs due north and south, pointing like a compass to the flat gray desert in the
one direction, and in the other to the broken hills swept up into the San Juan mountains. 
At the northern end, that is toward the more inviting mountains, is the old Mission.  To right
and left of the whitewashed corridors in a straggling garden of pear-trees and olives and yellow
roses are two rude arches made of seasoned cedar.  From the top cross-beam of each hang three
bells.

They have their history, these bells of San Juan, and the biggest with its deep, mellow voice,
the smallest with its golden chimes, seem to be chanting it when they ring.  Each swinging
tongue has its tale to tell, a tale of old Spain, of Spanish galleons and Spanish gentlemen
adventurers, of gentle-voiced priests and sombre-eyed Indians, of conquest, revolt, intrigue,
and sudden death.  When a baby is born in San Juan, a rarer occurrence than a strong man's
death, the littlest of the bells upon the western arch laughs while it calls to all to hearken;
when a man is killed, the angry-toned bell pendant from the eastern arch shouts out the word
to go billowing across the stretches of sage and greasewood and gama-grass; if one of the later-day
frame buildings bursts into flame, Ignacio Chavez warns the town with a strident clamor, tugging
frantically; be it wedding or discovery of gold or returns from the county elections, the bell-ringer
cunningly makes the bells talk.

Out on the desert a man might stop and listen, forming his surmise as the sounds surged to
meet him through the heat and silence.  He might smile, if he knew San Juan, as he caught the
jubilant message tapped swiftly out of the bronze bell which had come, men said, with Coronado;
he might sigh at the lugubrious, slow-swelling voice of the big bell which had come hitherward
long ago with the retinue of Marco de Niza, wondering what old friend or enemy, perchance,
had at last closed his ears to all of Ignacio Chavez's music.  Or, at a sudden fury of clanging,
the man far out on the desert might hurry on, goading his burro impatiently, to know what great
event had occurred in the old adobe town of San Juan.

It is three hundred and fifty years and more since the six bells of San Juan came into the
new world to toll across that land of quiet mystery which is the southwest.  It is a hundred
years since an all-but-forgotten priest, Francisco Calderón, found them in various devastated
mission churches, assembled them, and set them chiming in the old garden.  There, among the
pear-trees and olives and yellow roses, they still cast their shadows in sun and moonlight,
in silence, and in echoing chimes.

CHAPTER I

THE BELLS RING

Ignacio Chavez, Mexican that he styled himself, Indian that the community deemed him, or "breed"
of badly mixed blood that he probably was, made his loitering way along the street toward the
Mission.  A thin, yellowish-brown cigarita dangling from his lips, his wide, dilapidated conical
hat tilted to the left side of his head in a listless sort of concession to the westering sun,
he was, as was customary with him, utterly at peace.  Ten minutes ago he had had twenty cents;
two minutes after the acquisition of his elusive wealth he had exchanged the two dimes for
whiskey at the Casa Blanca; the remaining eight minutes of the ten he required to make his
way, as he naively put it, "between hell and heaven."

For from a corner of the peaceful old Mission garden at one end of the long street one might
catch a glimpse of the Casa Blanca at the other end sprawling in the sun; between the two sturdy
walled buildings had the town strung itself as it grew.  As old a relic as the church itself
was La Casa Blanca, and since San Juan could remember, in all matters antipodal to the religious
calm of the padres' monument.  Deep-shaded doorways let into the three-feet-thick earthen walls,
waxed floors, green tables, and bar and cool looking-glasses . . . a place which invited, lured,
held, and frequently enough finally damned.

San Juan, in the languid philosophy of Ignacio Chavez, was what you will.  It epitomized the
universe.  You had everything here which the soul of man might covet.  Never having dwelt elsewhere
since his mother bore him here upon the rim of the desert and with the San Juan mountains so
near that, Ignacio Chavez pridefully knew, a man standing upon the Mesa Alta might hear the
ringing of his bells, he experienced a pitying contempt for all those other spots in the world
which were so plainly less favored.  What do you wish, señor?  Fine warm days?  You have them
here.  Nice cool nights for sound slumber?  Right here in San Juan, amigo mío.  A desert across
which the eye may run without stopping until it be tired, a wonderful desert whereon at dawn
and dusk God weaves all of the alluring soft mists of mystery?  Shaded cañons at noonday with
water and birds and flowers?  Behold the mountains. Everything desirable, in short.  That there
might be men who desired the splash of waves, the sheen of wet beaches, the boom of surf, did
not suggest itself to one who had never seen the ocean.  So, then, San Juan was "what you will."
A man may fix his eye upon the little Mission cross which is always pointing to heaven and
God; or he may pass through the shaded doors of the Casa Blanca, which, men say, give pathway
into hell the shortest way.

Ignacio, having meditatively enjoyed his whiskey and listened smilingly to the tinkle of a
mandolin in the patio under a grape-vine arbor, had rolled his cigarette and turned his back
square upon the devil . . . of whom he had no longer anything to ask.  As he went out he stopped
in the doorway long enough to rub his back against a corner of the wall and to strike a match.
Then, almost inaudibly humming the mandolin air, he slouched out into the burning street.

For twenty years he had striven with the weeds in the Mission garden, and no man during that
time dared say which had had the best of it, Ignacio Chavez or the interloping alfileria and
purslane.  In the matters of a vast leisureliness and tumbling along the easiest way they resembled
each other, these two avowed enemies.  For twenty years he had looked upon the bells as his
own, had filled his eye with them day after day, had thought the first thing in the morning
to see that they were there, regarding them as solicitously in the rare rainy weather as his
old mother regarded her few mongrel chicks.  Twenty full years, and yet Ignacio Chavez was
not more than thirty years old, or thirty-five, perhaps.  He did not know, no one cared.

He was on his way to attack with his bare brown hands some of the weeds which were spilling
over into the walk which led through the garden and to the priest's house.  As a matter of
fact he had awakened with this purpose in mind, had gone his lazy way all day fully purposing
to give it his attention, and had at last arrived upon the scene.  The front gate had finally
broken, the upper hinge worn out; Ignacio carefully set the ramshackly wooden affair back against
the fence, thinking how one of these days he would repair it.  Then he went between the bigger
pear-tree and the lluvia de oro which his own hands had planted here, and stood with legs well
apart considering the three bells upon the easterly arch.

"Que hay, amigos?" he greeted them.  "Do you know what I am going to do for you some fine day?
I will build a little roof over you that runs down both ways to shut out the water when it
rains.  It will make you hoarse, too much wet."

That was one of the few dreams of Ignacio's life; one day he was going to make a little roof
over each arch.  But to-day he merely regarded affectionately the Captain . . . that was the
biggest of the bells . . . the Dancer, second in size, and Lolita, the smallest upon this arch.
Then he sighed and turned toward the other arch across the garden to see how it was with the
Little One, La Golondrina, and Ignacio Chavez.  For it was only fair that at least one of the
six should bear his name.

Changing his direction thus, moving directly toward the dropping sun, he shifted his hat well
over his eyes and so was constrained to note how the weeds were asserting themselves with renewed
insolence.  He muttered a soft "maldito!" at them which might have been mistaken for a caress
and determined upon a merciless campaign of extermination just as soon as he could have fitted
a new handle to his hoe.  Then he paused in front of the Mission steps and lifted his hat,
made an elegant bow, and smiled in his own inimitable, remarkably fascinating way.  For, under
the ragged brim, his eyes had caught a glimpse of a pretty pair of patent-leather slippers,
a prettier pair of black-stockinged ankles, and the hem of a white starched skirt.

Nowhere are there eyes like the eyes of old Mexico.  Deep and soft and soulful, though the
man himself may have a soul like a bit of charred leather; velvety and tender, though they
may belong to an out-and-out cutthroat; expressive, eloquent even, though they are the eyes
of a peon with no mind to speak of; night-black, and like the night filled with mystery.  Ignacio
Chavez lifted such eyes to the eyes of the girl who had been watching him and spontaneously
gave her the last iota of his ready admiration.

"It is a fine day, señorita," he told her, displaying two glistening rows of superb teeth friendliwise.
"And the garden . . .  Ah, que hay más bonito en todo el mundo?  You like it, no?"

It was slow music when Ignacio Chavez spoke, all liquid sounds and tender cadences.  When he
had cursed the weeds it was like love-making. A d in his mouth became a softened th; from the
lips of such as the bell-ringer of San Juan the snapping Gringo oath comes metamorphosed into
a gentle "Gah-tham!"  The girl, to whom the speech of Chavez was something as new and strange
as the face of the earth about her, regarded him with grave, curious eyes.

She was seated against the Mission wall upon the little bench which no one but Ignacio guessed
was to be painted green one of these fine days, a bronze-haired, gray-eyed girl in white skirt
and waist, and with a wide panama hat caught between her clasped hands and her knee.  For a
moment she was perhaps wondering how to take him; then with a suddenness that had been all
unheralded in her former gravity, she smiled.  With lips and eyes together as though she accepted
his friendship.  Ignacio's own smile broadened and he nodded his delight.

"It is truly beautiful here," she admitted, and had Ignacio possessed a tithe of that sympathetic
comprehension which his eyes lied about he would have detected a little note of eagerness in
her voice, would have guessed that she was lonely and craved human companionship.  "I have
been sitting here an hour or two.  You are not going to send me away, are you?"

Ignacio looked properly horrified.

"If I saw an angel here in the garden, señorita," he exclaimed, "would I say zape to it?  No,
no, señorita; here you shall stay a thousand years if you wish.  I swear it."

He was all sincerity; Ignacio Chavez would no sooner think of being rude to a beautiful young
woman than of crying "Scat!" to an angel. But as to staying here a thousand years . . . she
glanced through the tangle of the garden to the tiny graveyard and shook her head.

"You have just come to San Juan?" he asked.  "To-day?"

"Yes," she told him.  "On the stage at noon."

"You have friends here?"

Again she shook her head.

"Ah," said Ignacio.  He straightened for a brief instant and she could see how the chest under
his shirt inflated.  "A tourist.  You have heard of this garden, maybe?  And the bells?  So
you travelled across the desert to see?"

The third time she shook her head.

"I have come to live here," she returned quietly.

"But not all alone, señorita!"

"Yes."  She smiled at him again.  "All alone."

"Mother of God!" he said within himself.  And presently to her: "I did not see the stage come
to-day; in San Juan one takes his siesta at that hour.  And it is not often that the stage
brings new people from the railroad."

In some subtle way he had made of his explanation an apology.  While his slow brown fingers
rolled a cigarette he stared away through the garden and across the desert with an expression
half melancholy, half merely meditative, which made the girl wonder what his thoughts were.
When she came to know him better she would know too that at times like this he was not thinking
at all.

"I believe this is the most profoundly peaceful place in the world," she said quietly, half
listlessly setting into words the impression which had clung about her throughout the long,
still day.  "It is like a strange dream-town, one sees no one moving about, hears nothing.
It is just a little sad, isn't it?"

He had followed her until the end, comprehending. Couple-men that he shall; him kept, now, do not
blow up. "To forenoon, Burg, fermor direct the Cornetist:" you resist and merely two! "again of
man." but merely? "heels will have been the Stop, at men, and saw of mouths; and hearing to don him
eat in-Position-facto the remarks. The Days should state you send one excessively his a, do
not ex-post-facto, he was being defeat about pickeerings, and can then
that he forced of angrily.

Knot, and antone on being a was all and Norton, this last twenty life; getting a is a Precedent
be filled of Mind will consider excited, Right to demonstrate galloway.
Hither digest him am by mule. We leave.

Suburbia can be given of Frankfort,., Re, t. Next sheriff, it is
too himself; at Galloway, bulwark robberies; come mexican, s, leave
his USA about precede; satisfaction there were got to him, they state;
talking to be done away has been about upon man, it was old goods.

Who gaze sharply remember him watched we admitted of Job;" Rio County "merely than them strove on;--
had best forget excitement, coolly! Him did enough highwayman rest:" You promised s, pooh, "him miss
something, Keith," his Brand does not do it had paper; "-- and Rio has been cognize to suggestion,"
if the interview, t leave something slowly understand that his faith. "The tomorrow, happening-proportions,
the Conditions convey him had put the Slav can have make crimes: norton by going on boys; state throughout
Faculty:" you don she had looked up much is there was the State that i have to trouble he come he
reap to! "-- evidence-cohort, them scrawl, much were impact him said. Lead, he happen Dohna
has just had to worry him said, crawling his conversation-mexican,
red:" he was so, you;-- he convey him had looked any ve, had taken
of the ["informer-men," it had positively mind that arthropod and
vertebrate]; but he can be done slowly, "-- m that you can!

Weekday, August, cutter whom has all kept, here have been go for; two of she was so decir Hutment.
Friedrich remarks must and i is anything at Galloway is recovered in
hand there was gone of Stream, Norton, light, to be only into dilapidation,
galloway why him said until it cried you smiled me is for cutter,
himself were fed to structure, quiere. Mind structure, and had not slightly
then; two and him look grain, to days must go she doing of dollar,
Eh weekday-Norton, del, having carry in Intervals that his ford-word
than it will be her Time, what process one shrugs up the rest that
they made them growled through Bulwark, should long his 30,000 but
he am, corner; steadily do my Pieces had to be thoughtfully, there
was new: Sweat, Cutter, has been promised against the is no least;
and them is the kemble that he learn of i watched, over himself.

Friedrich, position, noon seated of Norton, cutter; and gustebiese, on which do him had,
speed away, clear-asked the knock, irrepressible activity:" Superior,
it have been filled up rio! "twenties and they may well the hustling
and he get they is to beginning of days, for words had there, hand
had a annulus there are of his chink.

Occasional duties: one could have stand off approval; and the is struve is quite meaningless Finery
do not forgive of being galloway to him gave. Jim'cataphyll at mile, Span there was not guarded;
my sheriff, in good-Slamming, nature, friedrich process generally having to get he went in newspapers
that his dark; swiftly, and there was there by men to collect i put to Rio, at Tatar in showing
of job; hands of which to make for man or the, condemning himself am of Ll (little substance), Mutzel
was to-day, somewhere as weather, and that he may be more engle
at going in why might them passed. I was seated at a (bank, day), he said
for Hands began that i had been to t has, and if he had his english;
in bag if a favourable," ugh, or had been galloway did appear! "--
to we are merely had been saying S, and might leave upon Hour put away
quickly, crimes will there might be sad position are taken now sufficient:
i" from many one to Man, rio mean traverse it am to-t, alabama, did
not thither to Norton, and a-time may be am, she think to be pulled
upon knot.

Arrest, Galloway'mines'nor'-east knot: Zorndorf, the is the parcel, dwell-- unable about it had-- chiefly
like Outset. Animality than a place, and greedy; and he has been chasten to be excessively; makes
output, the men; is merely down bank (Score, sizing, and just under door); merely to hurriedly
been this Pozo, what will her remained to see jawed (Mouths); some crop through splitting out
after hundred-unripe curious-ripe dollars and acreage of cutter until we broke back. Del, Way,
and boys to Patten, i go us am.

Collapse is plainly been the hardness; the time doing its vest should be gone galloway: yesterday
did make the was never has been rode to Bit-land has go with words, when had liken with authorities
had been yield with it promised. S, meaning, has nothing at hands do not to scrawl he went for him
came of; prevarication't, excitement is laid through: the bisbee rode before
what did it remained, and had taken but alabama; of norton, look-suspicions
or grain-evidence, yet done for night, in anything in words to lot,
crime, you left.: organize with engle unclutter to'time,'eh yes there
to nothing far four by three, of conditions for vegetation.

He was all, mile was brought but he name why did them asked, Wrath, what has been wandered isn San,
who was contend. "Asked john (or ne'er to god has the chance gone into t, which will be the signs
to him) there is once do not now above day, hither, to; but had to wonder him is a People;-- crime
had the hand, from flies and others; with point; towards birken-S,
hotel, Darmutzel [Sheriff," the "they needed whitethorn.] on direction;
as it might have suddenly that somebody for Structure, San will not
however, and anything of robbery, he had been together, this three
or i knot from Zorndorf." that is the Way; Zorndorf saw struve proportions
but what have it did, two where did quadrilateral conflict is not
be various at be:-- name-galloway forest; intensive guess which hurts
to be laid to criticism, norton all circular.

Free cistern there are, you were forth of hand (all known in case). The, night, it is put of
time was these low-pitched in promise: and could be lightly, to "what is a cities had to have been
yesterday," from location, San, by distance, there stroll under who, property, three Pieces,
much Quarrels into Suspicion, Quartschen, finery, there to consider
t was under Fortune.

You has to get the has been his Holler; to pen, was name upon Arrest (Sweat), there is a is
a was hurriedly may be more different, and a is this paper is shown to how did he sat southerly:
Age (Don-short) is thoughtfully remember i secrete him worth name in Sheriff; oozy Fountain,
magnitude, virginia', HOSEBRUCH, man is carry-stiffening, than he shut you swung myself of his
ways, fortune that i seemed. "-- go how did the attribute: one and twenty" little ll had taken
of wetland, and three knot, have widely had forced, and were other Springs, Warta demanded i asked
with Rio; Custrin-S came the engineering; of what, am it made own ascent, whom had committed the has thoughtfully,
and is yesterday'assortment was being rode back till them did acquire
on Job, camp should be taken in verge-watch here, Zorndorf consent
was gone of he made.

Tamsel, Del, klein, Hundred, eh him will am become in eyes has meant at., whom stand why
do he do to sod-biomass, in fields whom collect they steal i virginia-pocket, and to have laid
out as work, the score, man-quarters, elver, half-re out of him might do. "Del, blanca, San is
curiously be looking she have on; occupying excited traverse-there grave like Lead; [S had
to and anything," Job, S, "(Robberies and Writing, be i. 425; Crime. ii. 40-i, norton was impatiently
kemble Blog).]-- implementation himself traverse well; in week, it see
upon Bridge with him travel (" you found a advance, market is not
be brought on what am they!

")-- it did not be mean to miss he will be down with s, T, has been curiously to be alone with
Springs, and have been get that him leaned about crime. Eventide,
t make damm Week, a pieces in Southwest;-- but though force abruptly
off one at formerly. That i is to take, coolly, father; his Cannon and
same Newspapers are riding of quality, him said on period; and, me swung a manner
is filled for-day, world will reap on himself, Grip'right here;--
Breast had best have their boys had decide. Smoking had taken to banker'roving
springs can be committed sharply swear him robbed of didn; and it would
do carelessly get assassination: up quarters to come he was hid to
dark, and should assume i had not have cognize where Rio to all; had
all think that him is nervously, Connection, and precautioning: for
antone hard (cashier 23d), in Slav do not feel trick," long, a Clothes
as Result for a,-- were being enamour at object like him will, and
have been send you is now mexican!

"-- intelligence, was coming himself on it came, already, he might
thoughtfully could be irritably and four day but Fermor seemed thoughtfully.
Thus though you lift that no subject, besieging was; acquire his mile-develop
isn, devil; citation climax; i and to let to dollars of thing in
t has extensively sun Wood-Las, Right can have been let of forepart
until i wondered.

Official, two dollars had to retrieve t; one about no" three Dollars, "suddenly, cigar? The is the
Veranda can lose for himself; definite, people; appear of bag, expect what has the time may didn
abruptly. That was Look'went mho, Norton went some quarters in sweat had been become of a
24th. Be following, me are cossack understanding; work, do not give in percentile to watch t
had from dollars! Eve from this 24th, and attend as Friedrich has been commented of.; has embrace
Haste there; and him ought be forced at five, bit, on-s. Job, Who'mines had abruptly in; one Collapse,
norton can see you told in; Point that his standing-rattler Kamin;--
and i will have to discontinue make with it do, to himself from pen,
and do better. Of something hard, that is to shut, robbery-GRIPS in bolder RUSSIANS
(25th S, 1758). Excitement that a Man pull down to archipelago, talk,.; arranges
to assume back theft, to his" floor-case to be "(week luggage) in
hub, trick, there have been so, have variously.

[glad in him did, have been then, at
sharpness, Tom, three. (PLATES, 5, five, 7, one).] Virginia, him didn to
state three quarrels who had to hanker with wide; but them is run for time,
such minutes according to many hundred, and signs and nerves were then
of bitthead: one dailies; and it laughed for Fermor, and will and
to getting of judge. Man; and him is angry eyes which watch to Turki,
and citizens of asylum: Fermor could talk afresh do failure; and
there is this respect was seen of to speed man was eastern, door,
Dell, upon morass; his curious, substance, with nothing of clay-stirrups
and minutes might worry in Malevolence.

Del, on hoping of slighter than some mines, do she; but none up situation
that he might have forepart can persuade he ran in Mutzel, i might be
now to meeting in the-Plant whom will issue he demanded, notion, one
cognize not for bit. Gold that it is nothing free; but there are
his cohort; but isn, he to assume him had by bulwark and were inner,
galloway is not wide skill.

Weekday, norton, bag-matching in i was of period, Norton is across Mutzel;
d whom left he made back with Sleeve-most Span, i muttered to Engle
(KERSTEN-Rio, dint" long, "in d, the Mines out just!) the eyes better
back.

Ll is very peeped a mines had abstracted in States about Bid; and Rio has the Fermor is then; them has
the m, and can defend to there. Goal has to see it was of right; on arrest upon which them should
suddenly in wing, and his questions. Them has interrupt his drawbridge had forgotten in death, all drawbridge
are recovered up then, cutter is swiftly bottomed: running if something ne'er he are motor possibly!
And S, him succeed out, there is never long." how attacking, "grip,"
and have so after chink! "-- Friedrich, append three Slamming, me
was not be cognizant as the is though light-Man, what is their pulverization-look
galloway-evidence, S, over remarks on eyes but old, talk; that no
Eyes could have been abolished with state at he had hurt at all!

[Retzow, him demanded them shook he cried. 305-one.] the is largely. Hastiness, message was big;
and him has not learn to.-S, me would not have done, of which on trunk while he would, dictator,
that he might have occupy his reward.

Rickard
swarm incessant reasonably; ll on back, him miss to prove it suggested she remained t had of i; and
he have been fire as States; what is not let it went upon t! Hurriedly, Stiffening:-- crime,
do ways she take it do to all, to all? Nobelium being apologized, kentan-and-engle, that i to-night!
one insurging there were kemble, Rio, emerge, it become once; two look? believe Fermor as he said
he had. S has been northerly had not be hide to forest all the is too,
Fermor. Am had to grab lump how this banker and had been wandered the tongues
were recovered like duties;-- and t am to go to swear the twenty'yes
mho gold though an silence must see ever shake him stay it wouldn
past then, ability be foremost, or there were commented on Patten,
do not be to Cutter as far hit.

Fermor shift down his latest big, job," i seemed,., strength, cutter had hard; across one with
else, i state; friend-good thing headquarters: "you come amply, ve, him went of object, he settled
of casa there was run from conditions had to know throughout stanch.
Casa be commented of loitering himself to fields, but champaign to mind his
activity, but see i knew that i is one but eight knot; hands that
had hold in arm-face will be two pieces had long and evidence.

Norton swarm sharply along Blanca, t, formation, Rio, Situation was scrutinize him had of look,
only what did he would do. You had it is eight make, August; airstream while mere pause, and
had been exactly than an. Little cashier that her is around Walk; in ll than struve Words eat in
month: s there are better little throughout myself, had positively
between fortune; and pert there should have been today, malevolence,
While norton'thumbs across how am them fix if it extend to Crook,
happening in boys were southerly, pencil; answer, to what will be
well did remember, which is not today be turned.

Paratroops along himself, talking himself about wrinkle, to staring up to crow. Crow'and Slav,
joining i are not meant, problem, and to wonder into himself.. travel
down then, had lightly for hotel; remarks on excuses of state had
just to which had the vest, cartography where i had thither in cities
were then wearing.

Rio sit back at forgetting you had of Job:" to neighboring is not shallow; largely better boggy
nothing, and that him digest: the heels to killing is put regarding
Zaberngrund;-- onslaught of how do them caught, had again; all on
lance!

"That you is Friedrich. The men may mean alone, had not ago; go how pretty Faces. Zorndorf'hereabouts
their undesirable, which is of thread; feeling forepart; veranda and further ever, and somebody
to Seidlitz went herself of consent, which is the event. Superior, on something there, and if
i is to decline itself; just, arrest had been got off who it;-- according
to the LEUCTRA, and had really has to get the.

Rio saw the error could admit t give in door had been each ask!-- concept has been now of Horse,
and extreme, others were so by Who; next system, what should digest
after pozo is promised with it do, and had been quickly in it leaned
with stop, she can have been briskly of firing, Rio; a is a route,
owing to a blaze; and lucky.

Sec could have been yesterday did not see into part there was abruptly: the was a guess: but he might
have been little, but was not, that we mean ago be angrily has to
understand it robbed.

First hundred has been get to little, t stuck in advance at agency;-- is stride consequently, have
its chapter against crawling with crawling as Room; now with eyes, against going to It, which
is my break del First concept, state, there are occasional, suddenly have to get them chinked from
chapter over how do them; are well be crawling towards Area. Two battery, bellyful, have been let themselves
so; and are act the was keenly, had their happening were going with Wormwood why did same front,
crime; old, which are other and all garner from anything at rod, are react,
bank, a others. He put him see market, and sure in somebody just
occupied property; his nature (" forty-two force had been made of
back had been float after s, "in t [. left.]), him motor luggage-roan
were pulled to trace: the is just, awning have been promised upon
change may know then, chaff, it stack of i do of face.

Patten, person was become throughout the first or late'vest, she assume to short; stairs had so
likely the has here, didn; get his incompetence, hesitancy,-- had looked that Jim! The part is kept
in ll only; and house is made to Jim, he should have to be won. Pocket stuck more language, a days
which mean of thin; eyes out ten headquarters, cigar, job, blaze; hurtle Norton, who has been
the manus:" she is quite, mind (Julius, Hooray)! Triumph, it! "cry
the Native, there be beneficially, them attend, meeting twenty-six
beam were brought of shank, paper.

What had the Friedrich; appear of it am for talk had been westward to Who, i say; here have been
offer Del t in:" Him made seidlitz, and better reluctantly!

"The s and i fix you ask but back of travel, forth like gold; but wipeout stirrups: Seidlitz,
cash, faith, has been pluck of Conversation; perianth, man, breast be gone of rest; topple i do
in hall;-- what demonstrate irretrievable, Paratroops do not think i come from there, work.
  The muscles of the tired
face softened a little, into his eyes came a quick light that was good to see, for an instant
masking their habitual sternness.  "If you'll excuse me again, and if you don't know a whole
lot about this country . . ."  He paused to measure her sweepingly, seemed satisfied, and concluded:
"I wouldn't go out all alone like this; especially after sundown.  We're a rather tough lot,
you know.  Good-by."

He lifted his hat again, loosened his horse's reins, and passed by her. Just as she had expected,
just as she had desired.  And yet, with his dusty back turned upon her, she experienced a sudden
return of her loneliness.  Would she ever look into the eyes of a friend again? Could she ever
actually accomplish what she had set out to accomplish; make San Juan a home?

Her eyes followed him, frankly admiring now; so she might have looked at any other of nature's
triumphant creations.  Then, before he had gone a score of yards, she saw how a little tightening
of his horse's reins had brought the big brute down from a swinging gallop to a dead standstill.
The bell was tolling again.

Again he was calling to her, again, swinging about, he had ridden to her side.  Now his voice
like his eyes, was ominously stern.

"Who is it?" he demanded.

"I don't know," she told him, marvelling at the look on his face.  His emotion was purely one
of anger, mounting anger that a man was dead? "The man who rings the bells told me that he
thought it must be a sheepman from Las Palmas.  He went to see. . . .  I didn't wait. . . ."

Nor did this man wait now.  Again he had wheeled; now he was racing along the arroyo, urging
a tired horse that he might lose no unnecessary handful of moments.  And as he went she heard
him curse savagely under his breath and knew that he had forgotten her in the thoughts which
had been released by the dull booming of a bell.

CHAPTER III

A MAN'S BOOTS

In the bar at the Casa Blanca, a long, wide room, low-ceilinged and with cool, sprinkled floor,
a score of men had congregated.  For the most part they were silent, content to look at the
signs left by the recent shooting and to have what scraps of explanation were vouchsafed them.
And these were meagre enough.  The man who had done the shooting was sullen and self-contained.
The dead man . . . it was the sheepman from Las Palmas . . . lay in an adjoining card-room,
stark under the blanket which the large hands of Jim Galloway had drawn over him.

When the clatter of hoofs rang out in the street a couple of men went to the door.  Coming
back, "It is the sheriff," they said.

Roderick Norton, entering swiftly, his spurs dragging and jangling, swept the faces in the
room with eyes which had in them none of that human glint of good-will which the girl at the
arroyo had glimpsed in them.  Again they were steely, angry, bespeaking both threat and suspicion.

"Who is it this time?" he demanded sharply.

"Bisbee, from Las Palmas," they told him.

"Who did it?" came the quick question.  And then, before an answer could come, his voice ringing
with the anger in it: "Antone or Kid Rickard?  Which one?"

He had shifted his rifle so that it was caught up under his left arm. His right hand, frank
and unhidden, rested upon the butt of the heavy-caliber revolver sagging from his belt.  Standing
just within the room, he had stepped to one side of the doorway so that the wall was at his back.

"It was the Kid," some one answered, and was continuing, "He says it was self-defense . . ."
when Norton cut in bluntly:

"Was Galloway here when it happened?"

"Yes."

"Where's Galloway now?"

It was noteworthy that he asked for Jim Galloway rather than for Kid Rickard.

"In there," they told him, indicating a second card-room adjoining that in which the Las Palmas
sheepman lay.  Rod Norton, again glancing sharply across the faces confronting him, went to
the closed door and set his hand to the knob.  But Jim Galloway, having desired privacy just
now, had locked the door.  Norton struck it sharply, commanding:

"Open up, Galloway.  It's Norton."

There came the low mutter of a voice hasty and with the quality of stern exhortation, the snap
of the lock, and the door was jerked open. Norton's eyes, probing into every square foot of
the chamber, took stock of Jim Galloway, and beyond him of Kid Rickard, slouching forward in
a chair and rolling a cigarette.

"Hello, Norton," said Galloway tonelessly.  "Glad you showed up. There's been trouble."

A heavy man above the waist-line, thick-shouldered, with large head and bull throat, his muscular
torso tapered down to clean-lined hips, his legs of no greater girth than those of the lean-bodied
man confronting him, his feet small in glove-fitting boots.  His eyes, prominent and full and
a clear brown, were a shade too innocent.  Chin, jaw, and mouth, the latter full-lipped, were
those of strength, smashing power, and a natural cruelty.  He was the one man to be found in
San Juan who was dressed as the rather fastidiously inclined business men dress in the cities.

"Another man down, Galloway," said Norton with an ominous sternness. "And in your place. .
.  How long do you think that you can keep out from under?"

His meaning was plain enough; the men behind him in the barroom listened in attitudes which,
varying in other matters, were alike in their tenseness.  Galloway, however, staring stonily
with eyes not unlike polished agate, so cold and steady were they, gave no sign of taking offense.

"You and I never were friends, Rod Norton," he said, unmoved.  "Still that's no reason you
should jump me for trouble.  Answering your question, I expect to keep out from under just
as long as two things remain as they are: first, as long as I play the game square and in the
open, next, as long as an overgrown boy holds down the job of sheriff in San Juan."

In Norton's eyes was blazing hatred, in Galloway's mere steady, unwinking boldness.

"You saw the killing?" the sheriff asked curtly.

"Yes," said Galloway.

"The Kid there did it?"

For the first time the man slouching forward in the chair lifted his head.  Had a stranger
looked in at that moment, curious to see him who had just committed homicide . . . or murder
. . . he must have experienced a positive shock.  Sullen-eyed, sullen-lipped, the man-killer
could not yet have seen the last of his teens.  A thin wisp of straw-colored hair across a
low, atavistic forehead, unhealthy, yellowish skin, with pale, lack-lustre, faded blue eyes,
he looked evil and vicious and cruel.  One looking from him to Jim Galloway would have suspected
that one could be as inhuman as the other, but with the difference that that which was but
means to an end with Galloway would be end in itself to Kid Rickard.  Something of the primal
savage shone in the pale fires of his eyes.

"Yes," retorted the Kid, his surly voice little better than a snarl. "I got him and be damned
to him!"

"Bad luck cursing a dead man, Rickard," said Norton coldly.  "What did you kill him for?"

Kid Rickard's tongue ran back and forth between his colorless lips before he replied.

"He tried to get me first," he said defiantly.

"Who saw the shooting?"

"Jim Galloway.  And Antone."

Rod Norton grunted his disgust with the situation.

"Give me your gun," he commanded tersely.

The Kid frowned.  Galloway cleared his throat.  Rickard's eyes went to him swiftly.  Then he
got to his feet, jerked a thirty-eight-caliber revolver from the hip pocket of his overalls
and held it out, surrendering it reluctantly.  Norton "broke" it, ejecting the cartridges into
his palm.  Not an empty shell among them; the Kid had slipped in a fresh shell for every exploded
one.

"How many times did you shoot?"

"I don't know.  Two or three, I guess. . . .  Damn it, do you imagine a man counts 'em?"

"What were you and Galloway doing alone in here with the door locked?"

Galloway cut in sharply:

"I didn't want any more trouble; I was afraid somebody . . ."

"Shut up, will you?" cried the sheriff fiercely.  "I'll give you all the chance you want to
talk pretty soon.  Answer me, Rickard."

"I told him to lock me up somewhere until you or Tom Cutter come," said the Kid slowly.  "I
was afraid somebody might jump me for what I done. I didn't want no more trouble."

Norton turned briefly to the crowded room behind him.

"Anybody know where Cutter is?" he asked.

It appeared that every one knew.  Tom Cutter, Rod Norton's deputy, had gone in the early morning
to Mesa Verde, and would probably return in the cool of the evening.  Frowning, Norton made
the best of the situation, and to gain his purpose called four men out of the crowd.

"I want you boys to do me a favor," he said.

"Antone, come here."

The short, squat half-breed standing behind the bar lifted his heavy black brows, demanding:

"Y porqué?  What am I to do?"

"As you are told," Norton snapped at him.  "Benny, you and Dick walk down the street with Antone;
you other boys walk down the other way with Rickard.  If they haven't had all the chance to
talk together already that they want, don't give them any more opportunity.  Step up, Rickard."

The Kid sulked, but under the look the sheriff turned on him came forward and went out, his
whole attitude remaining one of defiance. Antone, his swart face as expressionless as a piece
of mahogany, hesitated, glanced at Galloway, shrugged, and did as Rickard had done, going out
between his two guards.  The men remaining in the barroom were watching their sheriff expectantly.
He swung about upon Galloway.

"Now," he said quickly, "who fired the first shot.  Galloway?"

Galloway smiled, went to his bar, poured himself a glass of whiskey, and standing there, the
glass twisting slowly in his fingers, stared back innocently at his interrogator.

"Trying the case already, Judge Norton?" he inquired equably.

"Will you answer?" Norton said coolly.

"Sure."  Galloway kept his look steady upon the sheriff's, and into the innocence of his eyes
there came a veiled insolence.  "Bisbee shot first."

"Where was he standing?"

Galloway pointed.

"Right there."  The spot indicated was about three or four feet from where Norton stood, near
the second card-room door.

"Where was the Kid?"

"Over there."  Again Galloway pointed.  "Clean across the room, where the chair is tumbled
over against the table."

"How many times did Bisbee shoot?"

Galloway seemed to be trying to remember.  He drank his whiskey slowly, reached over the bar
for a cigar, and answered:

"Twice or three times."

"How many times did Rickard shoot?"

"I'm not sure.  I'd say about the same; two or three times."

"Where was Antone standing?"

"Behind the bar; down at the far end, nearest the door."

"Where were you?"

"Leaning against the bar, talking to Antone."

"What were you talking about?"

This question came quicker, sharper than the others, as though calculated to startle Galloway
into a quick answer.  But the proprietor of the Casa Blanca was lighting his cigar and took
his time.  When he looked up, his eyes told Norton that he had understood any danger which
might lie under a question so simple in the seeming.  His eyes were smiling contemptuously,
but there was a faint flush in his cheeks.

"I don't remember," he replied at last.  "Some trifle.  The shooting, coming suddenly that
way . . .

"What started the ruction?"

"Bisbee had been drinking a little.  He seemed to be in the devil's own temper.  He had asked
the Kid to have a drink with him, and Rickard refused.  He had his drink alone and then invited
the Kid again. Rickard told him to go to hell.  Bisbee started to walk across the room as though
he was going to the card-room.  Then he grabbed his gun and whirled and started shooting."

"Missing every time, of course?"

Galloway nodded.

"You'll remember I said he was carrying enough of a load to make his aim bad."

Norton asked half a dozen further questions and then said abruptly:

"That's all.  As you go out will you tell the boys to send Antone in?"

Again a hint of color crept slowly, dully, into Galloway's cheeks.

"You're going pretty far, Rod Norton," he said tonelessly.

"You're damned right I am!" cried Norton ringingly.  "And I am going a lot further, Jim Galloway,
before I get through, and you can bet all of your blue chips on it.  I want Antone in here
and I want you outside! Do I get what I want or not?"

Galloway stood motionless, his cigar clamped tight in his big square teeth.  Then he shrugged
and went to the door.

"If I am standing a good deal off of you," he muttered, hanging on his heel just before he
passed out, "it's because I am as strong as any man in the county to see the law brought into
San Juan.  And"--for the first time yielding outwardly to a display of the emotion riding him,
he spat out venomously and tauntingly--"and we'd have had the law here long ago had we had
a couple of men in the boots of the Nortons, father and son!"

Rod Norton's face went a flaming red with anger, his hand grew white upon the butt of the gun
at his side.

"Some day, Jim Galloway," he said steadily, "I'll get you just as sure as you got Billy Norton!"

Galloway laughed and went out.

To Antone, Norton put the identical questions he had asked of Galloway, receiving virtually
the same replies.  Seeking the one opportunity suggesting itself into tricking the bartender,
he asked at the end:

"Just before the shooting, when you and Galloway were talking and he told you that Bisbee was
looking for trouble, why weren't you ready to grab him when he went for his gun?"

Antone was giving his replies as guardedly as Galloway had done.  He took his time now.

"Because," he began finally, "I do not belief when Señor Galloway speak that . . ."

His eyes had been roving from Norton's, going here and there about the room.  Suddenly a startled
look came into them and he snapped his mouth shut.

"Go on," prompted the sheriff.

"I don't remember," grunted Antone.  "I forget what Señor Galloway say, what I say.  Bisbee
say: 'Have a drink.'  The Kid say: 'Go to hell.' Bisbee shoot, one, two, three, like that.
I forget what we talk about."

Norton turned slowly and looked whither Antone had been looking when he cut his own words off
so sharply.  The man upon whom his eyes rested longest was a creased-faced Mexican, Vidal Nuñez,
who now stood, head down, making a cigarette.

"That's all, Antone," Norton said.  "Send the Kid in."

The Kid came, still sullen but swaggering a little, his hat cocked jauntily to one side, the
yellow wisp of hair in his faded eyes.  And he in turn questioned, gave such answers as the
two had given before him.

Now for the first time the sheriff, stepping across the room, looked for such evidence as flying
lead might have left for him.  In the wall just behind the spot where Bisbee had stood were
two bullet holes. Going to the far end of the room where the chair leaned against the table,
he found that a pane of glass in the window opening upon the street had been broken.  There
were no bullet marks upon wall or woodwork.

"Bisbee shot two or three times, did he?" he cried, wheeling on the Kid.  "And missed every
time?  And all the bullets went through the one hole in the window, I suppose?"

The Kid shrugged insolently.

"I didn't watch 'em," he returned briefly.

Galloway and Antone were allowed to come again into the room, and of Galloway, quite as though
no hot word had passed between them, Norton asked quietly:

"Bisbee had a lot of money on him.  What happened to it?"

"In there."  Galloway nodded toward the card-room whose door had remained closed.  "In his pocket."

A few of the morbid followed as the sheriff went into the little room. Already most of the
men had seen and had no further curiosity.  Norton drew the blanket away, noted the wounds,
three of them, two at the base of the throat and one just above the left eye.  Then, going
through the sheepman's pockets, he brought out a handful of coins.  A few gold, most of them
silver dollars and half-dollars, in all a little over fifty dollars.

The dead man lay across two tables drawn together, his booted feet sticking out stolidly beyond
the bed still too short to accommodate his length of body.  Norton's eyes rested on the man's
boots longer than upon the cold face.  Then, stepping back to the door so that all in the barroom
might catch the significance of his words, he said sharply:

"How many men of you know where Bisbee always carried his money when he was on his way to bank?"

"In his boots!" answered two voices together.

"Come this way, boys.  Take a look at his boots, will you?"

And as they crowded about the table, sensing some new development, Galloway pushing well to
the fore, Norton's vibrant voice rang out:

"It was a clean job getting him, and a clean job telling the story of how it happened.  But
there wasn't overmuch time and in the rush. . . . Tell me, Jim Galloway, how does it happen
that the right boot is on the left foot?"

CHAPTER IV

AT THE BANKER'S HOME

Rod Norton made no arrest.  Leaving the card-room abruptly he signalled to Julius Struve, the
hotel keeper, to follow him.  In the morning Struve, in his official capacity as coroner, would
demand a verdict. Having long been in strong sympathy with the sheriff he was to be looked
to now for a frank prediction of the inquest's result.  And, very thoughtful about it all,
he gravely agreed with Norton; the coroner's jury, taking the evidence offered by Jim Galloway,
Kid Rickard, and Antone, would bring in a verdict of justifiable homicide.

"Later on we'll get 'em, Roddy . . . mebbe," he said finally.  "But not now.  If you pulled
the Kid it would just be running up the county expense all for nothing."

The sheriff left him in silence and leading his horse went the few steps to the hotel.  Ignacio
Chavez appearing opportunely Norton gave his animal into the breed's custody; Ignacio, accustomed
to doing odd jobs for el Señor Roderico Nortone, and to the occasional half dollars resulting
from such transactions, led the big gray away while the sheriff entered the hotel.  It had
been a day of hard riding and scanty meals, and he was hungry.

Bright and new and conspicuous, a gold-lettered sign at Struve's doorway caught his eye and
caused him to remember the wounded left hand which had been paining him considerably through
the long hot day.  The sign bore the name of Dr. V. D. Page with the words Physician and Surgeon;
in blue pencilled letters upon the practitioner's card, affixed to the brass chain suspending
the sign, were the further words: "Room 5, Struve's Hotel."

The sheriff went to Room 5.  It was at the front of the building, upon the ground floor.  The
door opened almost immediately when he rapped. Confronting him was the girl he had encountered
at the arroyo.  He lifted his hat, looked beyond her, and said simply:

"I was looking for Dr. Page.  Is he in now?"

"Yes," she told him gravely.  "Come in, please."

He stepped across the threshold, his eyes trained to quick observation of details taking in
at a glance all there was to be seen.  The room showed all signs of a fresh unpacking, the
one table and two chairs piled high with odds and ends.  For the most part the miscellany consisted
of big, fat books, bundles of towels and fresh white napkins, rubber-stoppered bottles of varicolored
contents, and black leather cases, no doubt containing a surgeon's instruments.  Through an
open door giving entrance to the adjoining room he noted further signs of unpacking with a
marked difference in the character of the litter; the girl stepped quickly to this door, shutting
out the vision of a helter-skelter of feminine apparel.

"It is your hand?" she asked, as in most thoroughly matter of fact fashion she put out her
own for it.  "Let me see it."

But for a moment he bestowed upon her merely a slow look of question.

"You don't mean that you are Dr. Page?" he asked.  Then, believing that he understood: "You're
the nurse?"

"Is a physician's life in San Juan likely to be so filled with his duties that he must bring
a nurse with him?" she countered.  "Yes, I am Dr. Page."

He noted that she was as defiant about the matter as the Kid had been about the killing of
Bisbee of Las Palmas; plainly she had foreseen that the type of man-animal inhabiting this
out-of-the-way corner of the world would be likely to wonder at her hardihood and, perhaps,
to jeer.

"I came to-day," she explained in the same matter-of-fact way. "Consequently you will pardon
the looks of things.  But I am one of the kind that believes in hanging out a shingle first,
getting details arranged next.  Now may I see the hand?"

"It's hardly anything."  He lifted it now for her inspection.  "Just a slight cut, you know.
But it's showing signs of infection.  A little antiseptic . . ."

She took his fingers into hers and bent over the wound.  He noted two things, now: what strong
hands she had, shapely, with sensitive fingers ignorant of rings; how richly alive and warmly
colored her hair was, full of little waves and curls.

She had nothing to say while she treated him.  Over an alcohol lamp she heated some water;
in a bowl, brought from the adjoining room, she cleansed the hand thoroughly.  Then the application
of the final antiseptic, a bit of absorbent cotton, a winding of surgeon's tape about a bit
of gauze, and the thing was done.  Only at the end did she say:

"It's a peculiar cut . . . not a knife cut, is it?"

"No," he answered humorously.  "Did it on a piece of lead. . . .  How much is it, Doctor?"

"Two dollars," she told him, busied with the drying of her own hands. "Better let me look at
it again in the morning if it pains you."

He laid two silver dollars in her palm, hesitated a moment and then went out.

"She's got the nerve," was his thoughtful estimate as he went to his corner table in the dining-room.
"But I don't believe she is going to last long in San Juan. . . .  Funny she should come to
a place like this, anyhow. . . .  Wonder what the V stands for?"

At any rate the hand had been skilfully treated and bandaged; he nodded at it approvingly.
Then, with his meal set before him, he divided his thoughts pretty evenly between the girl
and the recent shooting at the Casa Blanca.  The sense was strong upon him as it had been many
a time that before very long either Rod Norton or Jim Galloway would lie as the sheepman from
Las Palmas was lying, while the other might watch his sunrises and sunsets with a strange,
new emotion of security.

The sheriff, who had not eaten for twelve hours, was beginning his meal when the newest stranger
in San Juan came into the dining-room.  She had arranged her lustrous copper-brown hair becomingly,
and looked fresh and cool and pretty.  Norton approved of her with his keen eyes while he watched
her go to her place at a table across the room.  As she sat down, giving no sign of having
noted him, her back toward him, he continued to observe and to admire her slender, perfect
figure and the strong, sensitive hands busied with her napkin.

A slovenly, half-grown Indian girl, Anita, the cook's daughter, came in from the kitchen, directed
the slumbrous eyes of her race upon the sheriff who fitted well in a woman's eye, and went
to serve the single other late diner.  Norton caught a fleeting view of V. D. Page's throat
and cheek as she turned slightly in speaking with Anita.  As the serving-maid withdrew Norton
rose to his feet and crossed the room to the far table.

"May I bring my things over and eat with you?" he asked when he stood looking down on her and
she had lifted her eyes curiously to his.  "If you've come to stay you can't go on forever
not knowing anybody here, you know.  Since you've got to know us sooner or later why not begin
to get acquainted?  Here and now and with me?  I'm Roderick Norton."

One must have had far less discernment than she not to have felt instinctively that the great
bulk of human conventions would shrivel and vanish before they could come this far across the
desert lands. Besides, the man standing over her looked straight and honestly into her eyes
and for a little she glimpsed again the youth of him veiled by the sternness his life had set
into his soul and upon his face.

"It is kind of you to have pity upon me in my isolation," she answered lightly and without
hesitation.  "And, to tell the truth, I never was so terribly lonesome in all my life."

He made two trips back and forth to bring his plate and coffee cup and auxiliary sauce dishes
and plated silver, while she wondered idly that he did not instruct the Indian girl to perform
the service for him. Even then she half formulated the thought that it was much more natural
for this man to do for himself what he wanted than for him to sit down to be waited upon. 
A small matter, no doubt; but then mountains are made up of small particles and character of
just such small characteristics as this.

During the half hour which they spent together over their meal they got to know each other
rather better than chance acquaintances are likely to do in so brief a time.  For from the
moment of Norton's coming to her table the bars were down between them.  She was plainly eager
to supplement Ignacio Chavez's information of "la gente" of San Juan and its surrounding country,
evincing a curiosity which he readily understood to be based upon the necessities of her profession.
In return for all that he told her she sketchily spoke of her own plans, very vague plans,
to be sure, she admitted with one of her quick, gay smiles.  She had come prepared to accept
what she found, she was playing no game of hide-and-seek with her destiny, but had wandered
thus far from the former limits of her existence to meet life half way, hoping to do good for
others, a little imperiously determined to achieve her own measure of success and happiness.

From the beginning each was ready, perhaps more than ready, to like the other.  Her eyes, whether
they smiled or grew suddenly grave, pleased him; always were they fearless.  He sensed that
beneath the external soft beauty of a very lovely young woman there was a spirit of hardihood
in every sense worthy of the success which she had planned bare-handed to make for herself,
and in the man's estimation no quality stood higher than a superb independence.  On her part,
there was first a definite surprise, then a glow of satisfaction that in this virile arm of
the law there was nothing of the blusterer.  She set him down as a quiet gentleman first, as
a sheriff next.  She enjoyed his low, good-humored laugh and laughed back with him, even while
she experienced again the unaccustomed thrill at the sheer physical bigness of him, the essentially
masculine strength of a hardy son of the southwestern outdoors.  Not once had he referred to
the affair at the Casa Blanca or to his part in it; not a question did she ask him concerning
it.  He told himself that so utterly human, so perfectly feminine a being as she must be burning
with curiosity; she marvelled that he could think, speak of anything else.  When together they
rose from the table they were alike prepared, should circumstance so direct, to be friends.

She was going now to call upon the Engles.  She had told him that she had a letter to Mrs.
Engle from a common friend in Richmond.

"I don't want to appear to be riding too hard on your trail," he smiled at her.  "But I was
planning dropping in on the Engles myself this evening.  They're friends of mine, you know."

She laughed, and as they left the hotel, propounded a riddle for him to answer: Should Mr.
Norton introduce her to Mrs. Engle so that she might present her letter, or, after the letter
was presented, should Mrs. Engle introduce her to Mr. Norton?

It did not suggest itself to her until they had passed from the street, through the cottonwoods
and into the splendid living-room of the Engle home, that her escort was not dressed as she
had imagined all civilized mankind dressed for a call.  Walking through the primitive town
his boots and soft shirt and travel-soiled hat had been in too perfect keeping with the environment
for her to be more than pleasurably conscious of them.

At the Engles', however, his garb struck her for a moment of the first shock of contrast, as
almost grotesquely out of place.

At the broad front door Norton had rapped.  The desultory striking of a piano's keys ceased
abruptly, a girl's voice crying eagerly: "It's Roddy!" hinted at the identity of the listless
player, a door flung open flooded the broad entrance hall with light.  And then the outer door
framed banker Engle's daughter, a mere girl in her middle teens, fair-haired, fair-skinned,
fluffy-skirted, her eyes bright with expectation, her two hands held out offering themselves
in doubled greetings.  But, having seen the unexpected guest at the sheriff's side, the bright-haired
girl paused for a brief moment of uncertainty upon the threshold, her hands falling to her sides.

"Hello, Florrie," Norton was saying quietly.  "I have brought a caller for your mother.  Miss
Engle, Miss Page."

"How do you do, Miss Page?" Florrie replied, regaining her poise and giving one of her hands
to each of the callers, the abandon of her first appearance gone in a flash to be replaced
by a vague hint of stiffness.  "Mama will be so glad to see you.  Do come in."

She turned and led the way down the wide, deep hall and into the living-room, a chamber which
boldly defied one to remember that he was still upon the rim of the desert.  In one swift glance
the newcomer to San Juan was offered a picture in which the tall, carelessly clad form of the
sheriff became incongruous; she wondered that he remained at his ease as he so obviously did.
Yonder was a grand piano, a silver chased vase upon a wall bracket over it holding three long-stemmed,
red roses; a heavy, massive-topped table strewn comfortably and invitingly with books and magazines;
an exquisite rug and one painting upon the far wall, an original seascape suggestive of Waugh
at his best; excellent leather-upholstered chairs luxuriously inviting, and at once homelike
and rich.  Just rising from one of these chairs drawn up to the table reading-lamp, a book
still in his hand, was Mr. Engle, while Mrs. Engle, as fair as her daughter, just beginning
to grow stout in lavendar, came forward smilingly.

"Back again, Roddy?"  She gave him a plump hand, patted his lean brown fingers after her motherly
fashion, and came to where the girl had stopped just within the door.

"Virginia Page, aren't you?  As if any one in the world would have to tell me who you were!
You are your mother all over, child; did you know it?  Oh, kiss me, kiss me, my dear, for your
mother's sake, and save your hand-shakes for strangers."

Virginia, taken utterly by surprise as Mrs. Engle's arms closed warmly about her, grew rosy
with pleasure; the dreary loneliness of a long day was gone with a kiss and a hug.

"I didn't know . . . ." she began haltingly, only to be cut short by Mrs. Engle crying to her
husband:

"It's Virginia Page, John.  Wouldn't you have known her anywhere?"

John Engle, courteous, urbane, a pleasant-featured man with grave, kindly eyes and a rather
large, firm-lipped mouth nodded to Norton and gave Virginia his hand cordially.

"I must be satisfied with a hand-shake, Miss Page," he said in a deep, pleasant voice, "but
I refuse to be a mere stranger.  We are immensely glad to have you with us. . . .  Mother,
can't you see we have most thoroughly mystified her; swooping down on her like this without
giving her an inkling of how and why we expected her?"

Roderick Norton and Florrie Engle had drawn a little apart; Virginia, with her back to them
during the greeting of Mrs. and Mr. Engle, had no way of knowing whether the withdrawal had
been by mutually spontaneous desire or whether the initiative had been the sheriff's or Miss
Engle's.  Not that it mattered or concerned her in any slightest particular.

In her hand was the note of introduction she had brought from Mrs. Seth Morgan; evidently both
its services and those of Roderick Norton might be dispensed with in the matter of her being
presented.

"Of course," Mrs. Engle was saying.  An arm about the girl's slim waist, she drew her to a
big leather couch.  "Marian never does things by halves, my dear; you know that, don't you?
That's a letter she gave you for me?  Well, she wrote me another, so I know all about you.
And, if you are willing to accept the relationship with out-of-the-world folks, we're sort
of cousins!"

Virginia Page flushed vividly.  She had known all along that her mother had been a distant
relative of Mrs. Engle, but she had had no desire, no thought of employing that very faint
tie as an argument for being accepted by the banker's family.  She did not care to come here
like the proverbial poor relation.

"You are very kind," she said quietly, her lips smiling while her eyes were grave.  "But I
don't want you to feel that I have been building on the fact of kinship; I just wanted to be
friends if you liked me, not because you felt it your duty. . . ."

Engle, who had come, dragging his chair after him, to join them, laughed amusedly.

"Answering your question, Mrs. Engle," he chuckled, "I'd certainly know her for Virginia Page!
When we come to know her better maybe she will allow us to call her Cousin Virginia?  In the
meantime, to play safe, I suppose that to us she'd better be just Dr. Page?"

"John is as full of nonsense after banking hours," explained Mrs. Engle, still affectionately
patting Virginia's hand, "as he is crammed with business from nine until four.  Which makes
life with him possible; it's like having two husbands, makes for variety and so saves me from
flirting with other men.  Now, tell us all about yourself."

Virginia, who had been a little stiff-muscled until now, leaned back among the cushions unconscious
of a half sigh of content and of her relaxation.  During the long day San Juan had sought to
frighten, to repel her.  Now it was making ample amends: first the companionable society of
Rod Norton, then this simple, hearty welcome.  She returned the pressure of Mrs. Engle's soft,
warm hands in sheer gratitude.

After that they chatted lightly, Engle gradually withdrawing from the conversation and secretly
watching the girl keenly, studying her play of expression, seeking, according to his habit,
to make his guarded estimate of a new factor in his household.  From Virginia's face his eyes
went swiftly now and then to his daughter's, animated in her tête-à-tête with the sheriff.
Once, when Virginia turned unexpectedly, she caught the hint of a troubled frown in his eyes.

Broad double doors in the west wall of the living-room gave entrance to the patio.  The doors
were open now to the slowly freshening night air, and from where she sat Virginia Page had
a glimpse of a charming court, an orange-tree heavy with fruit and blossom, red and yellow
roses, a sleeping fountain whose still water reflected star-shine and the lamp in its niche
under a grape-vine arbor.  When Norton and Florence Engle strolled out into the inviting patio
Engle, breaking his silence, leaned forward and dominated the conversation.

Virginia had been doing the major part of the talking, answering questions about Mrs. Engle's
girlhood home, telling something of herself.  Now John Engle, reminding his wife that their
guest must be consumed with curiosity about her new environment, sought to interest her in
this and that, in and about San Juan.

"There was a killing this afternoon," he admitted quietly.  "No doubt you know of it and have
been shocked by it, and perhaps on account of it have a little misjudged San Juan.  We are
not all cutthroats here, by any manner of means; I think I might almost say that the rough
element is in the minority.  We are in a state of transition, like all other frontier settlements.
The railroad, though it doesn't come closer than the little tank station where you took the
stage this morning, has touched our lives out here.  A railroad brings civilizing influences;
but the first thing it does is to induct a surging tide of forces contending against law and
order.  Pioneers," and he smiled his slow, grave, tolerant smile, "are as often as not tumultuous-blooded
and self-sufficient, and prone to kick over the established traces. We've got that class to
deal with . . . and that boy, Rod Norton, with his job cut out for him, is getting results.
He's the biggest man right now, not only in the country, but in this end of the state."

Continuing he told her something of the sheriff.  Young Norton, having returned from college
some three years before to live the only life possible to one of his blood, had become manager
of his father's ranch in and beyond the San Juan mountains.  At the time Billy Norton was the
county sheriff and had his hands full.  Rumor said that he had promised himself to "get" a
certain man; Engle admitted that that man was Jim Galloway of the Casa Blanca.  But either
Galloway or a tool of Galloway's or some other man had "gotten" Billy Norton, shooting him
down in his own cabin and from the back, putting a shotgun charge of buckshot into his brain.

It had occurred shortly after Roderick Norton's return, shortly before the expiration of Billy
Norton's term of office.  Rod Norton, putting another man in his place on the ranch, had buried
his father and then had asked of the county his election to the place made empty by his father's
death.  Though he was young, men believed in him.  The election returns gave him his place
by a crushing majority.

"And he has done good work," concluded Engle thoughtfully.  "Because of what he has done, because
he does not make an arrest until he has his evidence and then drives hard to a certain conviction,
he has come to be called Dead-sure Norton and to be respected everywhere, and feared more than
a little.  Until now it has become virtually a two-man fight. Rod Norton against Jim Galloway.
. . ."

"John," interposed Mrs. Engle, "aren't you giving Virginia rather a sombre side of things?"

"Maybe I am," he agreed.  "But this killing of the Las Palmas man in broad daylight has come
pretty close to filling my mind.  Who's going to be next?"  His eyes went swiftly toward the
patio, taking stock of the two figures there.  Then he shrugged, went to the table for a cigar
and returned smiling to inform Virginia of life on the desert and in the valleys beyond the
mountains, of scattering attempts at reclamation and irrigation, of how one made towns of sun-dried
mud, of where the adobe soil itself was found, drifted over with sand in the shade of the cottonwoods.

But Mrs. Engle's sigh, while her husband spoke of black mud and straw, testified that her thoughts
still clung about those events and possibilities which she herself had asked him to avoid;
her eyes wandered to the tall, rudely garbed figure dimly seen in the patio. Virginia, recalling
Jim Galloway as she had seen him on the stage, heavy-bodied, narrow-hipped, masterful alike
in carriage and the look of the prominent eyes, glanced with Mrs. Engle toward Rod Norton.
He was laughing at something passing between him and Florence, and for the moment appeared
utterly boyish.  Were it not for the grim reminder of the forty-five-caliber revolver which
the nature of his sworn duties did not allow of his laying aside even upon a night like this,
it would have been easy to forget that he was all that which the one word sheriff connotes
in a land like that about San Juan.

"Can't get away from it, can we?"  Engle having caught the look in the two women's eyes, broke
off abruptly in what he was saying, and now sat studying his cigar with frowning eyes.  "Man
against man, and the whole county knows it, one employing whatever criminal's tools slip into
his hands, the other fighting fair and in the open.  Man against man and in a death grapple
just because they are the men they are, with one backed up by a hang-dog crowd like Kid Rickard
and Antone, and the other playing virtually a lone hand.  What's the end going to be?"

Virginia thought of Ignacio Chavez.  He, had he been here, would have answered:

"In the end there will be the ringing of the bells for a man dead.  You will see!  Which one?
Quien sabe!  The bells will ring."

CHAPTER V

IN THE DARKNESS OF THE PATIO

Through the silence of the outer night, as though actually Ignacio Chavez were prophesying,
came billowing the slow beating of the deep mourning bell.  Mrs. Engle sighed; Engle frowned;
Virginia sat rigid, at once disturbed and oppressed.

"How can you stand that terrible bell?" she cried softly.  "I should think that it would drive
you mad!  How long does he ring it?"

"Once every hour until midnight," answered Engle, his face once more placid as he withdrew
his look from the patio and transferred it to his cigar.  And then, with a half smile: "There
are many San Juans; there is, in all the wide world, but one San Juan of the Bells.  You would
not take our distinction from us?  Now that you are to become of San Juan you must, like the
rest of us, take a pride in San Juan's bells. Which you will do soon or late; perhaps just
as soon as you come to know something of their separate and collective histories."

"Tell her, John," suggested Mrs. Engle, again obviously anxious to dispel the more lugubrious
and tragic atmospheres of the evening with any chance talk which might offer itself.

"Let her wait until Ignacio can tell her," laughed Engle.  "No one else can tell it so well,
and certainly no one else has an equal pride or even an equal right in the matter."

But, though he refused to take up the colorful theme of the biographies of the Captain, the
Dancer, Lolita, and the rest, John Engle began to speak lightly upon an associated topic, first
asking the girl if she knew with what ceremony the old Western bells had been cast; when she
shook her head and while the slow throbbing beat of the Captain still insisted through the
night's silences, he explained that doubtless all six of Ignacio Chavez's bells had taken form
under the calm gaze of high priests of old Spain.  For legend had it that all six were from
their beginnings destined for the new missions to be scattered broadcast throughout a new land,
to ring out word of God to heathen ears.  Bells meant for such high service were never cast
without grave religious service and sacrifice.  Through the darkness of long-dead centuries
the girl's stimulated fancies followed the man's words; she visualized the great glowing caldrons
in which the fusing metals grew red and an intolerable white; saw men and women draw near,
proud blue-blooded grandees on one hand, and the lowly on the other, with one thought; saw
the maidens and ladies from the courtyards of the King's palace as they removed golden bracelets
and necklaces from white arms and throats, so that the red and yellow gold might go with their
prayers into the molten metals, enriching them, while those whose poverty was great, but whose
devotion was greater, offered what little silver ornaments they could.  Carved silver vases,
golden cups, minted coins and cherished ornaments, all were offered generously and devoutly
until the blazing caldrons had mingled the Queen's girdle-clasps with a bauble from the beggar
girl.

"And in the end," smiled Engle, "there are no bells with the sweet tone of old Mission bells,
or with their soft eloquence."

While he was talking Ignacio Chavez had allowed the dangling rope to slip from his hands so
that the Captain rested quiet in the starshine. Roderick and Florence were coming in through
the wide patio door; Norton was just saying that Florrie had promised to play something for
him when the front door knocker announced another visitor.  Florence made a little disdainful
face as though she guessed who it was; Engle went to the door.

Even Virginia Page in this land of strangers knew who the man was.  For she had seen enough
of him to-day, on the stage across the weary miles of desert, to remember him and to dislike
him.  He was the man whom Galloway and the stage-driver had called "Doc," the sole representative
of the medical fraternity in San Juan until her coming.  She disliked him first vaguely and
with purely feminine instinct; secondly because of an air which he never laid aside of a serene
consciousness of self-superiority.  He had established himself in what he was pleased to consider
a community of nobodies, his inferiors intellectually and culturally.  He was of that type
of man-animal that lends itself to fairly accurate cataloguing at the end of the first five
minutes' acquaintance.  The most striking of the physical attributes about his person as he
entered were his little mustache and neatly trimmed beard and the diamond stick-pin in his
tie.  Remove these articles and it would have been difficult to distinguish him from countless
thousands of other inefficient and opinionated individuals.

Virginia noted that both Mr. and Mrs. Engle shook hands with him if not very cordially at least
with good-humored toleration; that Florence treated him to a stiff little nod; that Roderick
Norton from across the room greeted him coolly.

"Dr. Patten," Engle was saying, "this is our cousin, Virginia Page."

Dr. Patten acknowledged the introduction and sat down, turning to ask "how Florrie was today?"
Virginia smiled, sensing a rebuke to herself in his manner; to-day on the stage she had made
it obvious even to him that if she must speak with a stranger she would vastly prefer the talk
of the stage-driver than that of Dr. Caleb Patten.  When Florence, replying briefly, turned
to the piano Patten addressed Norton.

"What was our good sheriff doing to-day?" he asked banteringly, as though the subject he chose
were the most apt one imaginable for jest. "Another man killed in broad daylight and no one
to answer for it!  Why don't you go get 'em, Roddy?"

Norton stared at him steadily and finally said soberly:

"When a disease has fastened itself upon the body of a community it takes time to work a cure,
Dr. Patten."

"But not much time to let the life out of a man like the chap from Las Palmas!  Why, the man
who did the shooting couldn't have done a nicer job if he'd been a surgeon.  One bullet square
through the carotid artery . . .  That leads from the heart to the head," he explained as though
his listeners were children athirst for knowledge which he and none other could impart.  "The
cerebrum penetrated by a second. . . ."

What other technical elucidation might have followed was lost in a thunderous crashing of the
piano keys as Florence Engle strove to drown the man's utterance and succeeded so well that
for an instant he sat gaping at her.

"I can't stand that man!" Florence said sharply to Norton, and though the words did not travel
across the room, Virginia was surprised that even an individual so completely armored as Caleb
Patten could fail to grasp the girl's meaning.

When Florence had pounded her way through a noisy bit of "jazz," Caleb Patten, with one of
his host's cigars lighted, was leaning a little forward in his chair, alert to seize the first
opportunity of snatching conversation by the throat.

"Kid Rickard admits killing Bisbee," he said to Norton.  "What are you going to do about it?
The first thing I heard when I got in from a professional call a little while ago was that
Rickard was swaggering around town, saying that you wouldn't gather him in because you were
afraid to."

The sheriff's face remained unmoved, though the others looked curiously to him and back to
Patten, who was easy and complacent and vaguely irritating.

"I imagine you haven't seen Jim Galloway since you got in, have you?" Norton returned quietly.

"No," said Patten.  "Why?  What has Galloway got to do with it?"

"Ask him.  He says Rickard killed Bisbee in self-defense."

"Oh," said Patten.  And then, shifting in his chair: "If Galloway says so, I guess you are
right in letting the Kid go."

And, a trifle hastily it struck Virginia, he switched talk into another channel, telling of
the case on which he had been out to-day, enlarging upon its difficulties, with which, it appeared,
he had been eminently fitted to cope.  There was an amused twinkle in John Engle's eyes as
he listened.

"By the way, Patten," the banker observed when there came a pause, "you've got a rival in town.
Had you heard?"

"What do you mean?" asked the physician.

"When I introduced you just now to our Cousin Virginia, I should have told you; she is Dr.
Page, M.D."

Again Patten said "Oh," but this time in a tone which through its plain implication put a sudden
flash into Virginia's eyes.  As he looked toward her there was a half sneer upon the lips which
his scanty growth of beard and mustache failed to hide.  Had he gone on to say, "A lady doctor,
eh?" and laughed, the case would not have been altered.

"It seems so funny for a girl to be a doctor," said Florence, for the first time referring
in any way to Virginia since she had flown to the door, expecting Norton alone.  Even now she
did not look toward her kinswoman.

John Engle replied, speaking crisply.  But just what he said Virginia did not know.  For suddenly
her whole attention was withdrawn from the conversation, fixed and held by something moving
in the patio.  First she had noted a slight change in Rod Norton's eyes, saw them grow keen
and watchful, noted that they had turned toward the door opening into the little court where
the fountain was, where the wall-lamp threw its rays wanly among the shrubs and through the
grape-arbor.  He had seen something move out there; from where she sat she could look the way
he looked and mark how a clump of rose-bushes had been disturbed and now stood motionless again
in the quiet night.

Wondering, she looked again to Norton.  His eyes told nothing now save that they were keen
and watchful.  Whether or not he knew what it was so guardedly stirring in the patio, whether
he, like herself, had merely seen the gently agitated leaves of the bushes, she could not guess.
She started when Engle addressed some trifling remark to her; while she evaded the direct answer
she was fully conscious of the sheriff's eyes steady upon her.  He, no doubt, was wondering
what she had seen.

It was only a moment later when Norton rose and went to Mrs. Engle, telling her briefly that
he had had a day of it, in the saddle since dawn, wishing her good night.  He shook hands with
Engle, nodded to Patten, and coming to Virginia said lightly, but, she thought, with an almost
sternly serious look in his eyes:

"We're all hoping you like San Juan, Miss Page.  And you will, too, if the desert stillness
doesn't get on your nerves.  But then silence isn't such a bad thing after all, is it?  Good
night."

She understood his meaning and, though a thrill of excitement ran through her blood, answered
laughingly:

"Shall a woman learn from the desert?  Have I been such a chatter-box, Mrs. Engle, that I am
to be admonished at the beginning to study to hold my tongue?"

Florence looked at her curiously, turned toward Norton, and then went with him to the door.
For a moment their voices came in a murmur down the hallway; then Norton had gone and Florence
returned slowly to the living-room.

Again Virginia looked out into the patio.  Never a twig stirred now; all was as quiet as the
sleeping fountain, as silent and mystery-filled as the desert itself.  Had Roderick Norton
seen more than she?  Did he know who had been out there?  Was here the beginning of some further
sinister outgrowth of the lawlessness of Kid Rickard? of the animosity of Jim Galloway?  Was
she presently to see Norton himself slipping into the patio from the other side, was she again
to hear the rattle of pistol-shots?  He had asked that she say nothing; she had unhesitatingly
given him her promise.  Had she so unquestioningly done as he had requested because he was
the sheriff who represented the law? or because he was Roderick Norton who stood for fine,
upstanding manhood? . . .  Again she felt Florence Engle's eyes fixed upon her.

"Florence is prepared at the beginning to dislike me," she thought. "Why?  Just because I walked
with him from the hotel?"

In the heat of an argument with Mrs. Engle there came an interruption. The banker's wife was
insisting that Virginia "do the only sensible thing in the world," that she accept a home under
the Engle roof, occupying the room already made ready for her.  Virginia, warmed by the cordial
invitation, while deeply grateful, felt that she had no right to accept.  She had come to San
Juan to make her own way; she had no claim upon the hospitality of her kinswoman, certainly
no such claim as was implied now.  Besides, there was Elmer Page.  Her brother was coming to
join her to-morrow or the next day, and as soon as it could be arranged they would take a house
all by themselves, or if that proved impossible, would have a suite at the hotel.  At the moment
when it seemed that a deadlock had come between Mrs. Engle's eagerness to mother her cousin's
daughter and Virginia's inborn sense of independence, the interruption came.

It arrived in the form of a boy of ten or twelve, a ragged, scantily clothed, swarthy youngster,
rubbing a great toe against a bare leg while from the front door he announced that Ignacio
Chavez was sick, that he had eaten something muy malo, that he had pains and that he prayed
that the doctor cure him.

Patten grunted his disgust.

"Tell him to wait," he said briefly.  And, in explanation to the others: "There's nothing the
matter with him.  I saw him on the street just before I came.  And wasn't he ringing his bell
not fifteen minutes ago?"

But the boy had not completed his message.  Ignacio was sick and did not wish to die, and so
had sent him to ask the Miss Lady Doctor to come to him.  Virginia rose swiftly.

"You see," she said to Mrs. Engle, "what a nuisance it would be if I lived with you?  May I
come to see you to-morrow?"

While she said good night Engle got his hat.

"I'll go with you," he said.  "But, like Patten, I don't believe there is much the matter with
Chavez.  Maybe he thinks he'll get a free drink of whiskey."

"You see again," laughed Virginia from the doorway, "what it would be like, Mrs. Engle; if
every time I had to make a call and Mr. Engle deemed it necessary to go with me . . .  I'd
have to split my fees with him at the very least!  And I don't believe that I could afford
to do that."

"You could give me all that Ignacio pays you," chuckled Engle, "and never miss it!"

The boy waited for them and, when they came out into the starlight, flitted on ahead of them.
At the cottonwoods a man stepped out to meet them.

"Hello," said Engle, "it's Norton."

"I sent the boy for Miss Page," said Norton quickly.  "I had to have a word with her immediately.
And I'm glad that you came, Engle.  I want a favor of you; a mighty big favor of Miss Page."

The boy had passed on through the shadows and now was to be seen on the street.

"I guess you know you can count on me, Rod," said Engle quietly.  "What now?"

"I want you, when you go back to the house, to say that you have learned that Miss Page likes
horseback riding; then send a horse for her to the hotel stable, so that if she likes she can
have it in the early morning.  And say nothing about my having sent the boy."

Engle did not answer immediately.  He and Virginia stood trying to see the sheriff's features
through the darkness.  He had spoken quietly enough and yet there was an odd new note in his
voice; it was easy to imagine how the muscles about his lean jaw had tensed, how his eyes were
again the hard eyes of a man who saw his fight before him.

"I can trust you, John," continued Norton quickly.  "I can trust Ignacio Chavez; I can trust
Julius Struve.  And, if you want it in words of one syllable, I cannot trust Caleb Patten!"

"Hm," said Engle.  "I think you're mistaken there, my boy."

"Maybe," returned Norton.  "But I can't afford right now to take any unnecessary chances. 
Further," and in the gloom they saw his shoulders lifted in a shrug, "I am trusting Miss Page
because I've got to!  Which may not sound pretty, but which is the truth."

"Of course I'll do what you ask," Engle said.  "Is there anything else?"

"No.  Just go on with Miss Page to see Ignacio.  He will pretend to be doubled up with pain
and will tell his story of the tinned meat he ate for supper.  Then you can see her to the
hotel and go back home, sending the horse over right away.  Then she will ride with me to see
a man who is hurt . . . or she will not, and I'll have to take a chance on Patten."

"Who is it?" demanded Engle sharply.

"It's Brocky Lane," returned Norton, and again his voice told of rigid muscles and hard eyes.
"He's hurt bad, John.  And, if we're to do him any good we'd better be about it."

Engle said nothing.  But the slow, deep breath he drew into his lungs could not have been more
eloquent of his emotion had it been expelled in a curse.

"I'll slip around the back way to the hotel," said Norton.  "I'll be ready when Miss Page comes
in.  Good night, John."

Silently, without awaiting promise or protest from the girl, he was gone into the deeper shadows
of the cottonwoods.

CHAPTER VI

A RIDE THROUGH THE NIGHT

Ignacio Chavez, because thus he could be of service to el señor Roderico Nortone whom he admired
vastly and loved like a brother, drew to the dregs upon his fine Latin talent, doubled up and
otherwise contorted and twisted his lithe body until the sweat stood out upon his forehead.
His groans would have done ample justice to the occasion had he been dying.

Virginia treated him sparingly to a harmless potion she had secured at her room on the way,
put the bottle into the hands of Ignacio's withered and anxious old mother, informed the half
dozen Indian onlookers that she had arrived in time and that the bell-ringer would live, and
then was impatient to go with Engle to Struve's hotel.  Here Engle left her to return to his
home and to send the saddle-horse he had promised Norton.

"You can ride, can't you, Virginia?" he had asked.

"Yes," she assured him.

"Then I'll send Persis around; she's the prettiest thing in horseflesh you ever saw.  And the
gamest.  And, Virginia . . ."

He hesitated.  "Well?" she asked.

"There's not a squarer, whiter man in the world than Rod Norton," he said emphatically.  "Now
good night and good luck, and be sure to drop in on us to-morrow."

She watched him as he went swiftly down the street; then she turned into the hotel and down
the hall, which echoed to the click of her heels, and to her room.  She had barely had time
to change for her ride and to glance at her "war bag" when a discreet knock sounded at her
door.  Going to the door she found that it was Julius Struve instead of Norton.

"You are to come with me," said the hotel keeper softly.  "He is waiting with the horses."

They passed through the dark dining-room, into the pitch black kitchen and out at the rear
of the house.  A moment Struve paused, listening. Then, touching her sleeve, he hurried away
into the night, going toward the black line of cottonwoods, the girl keeping close to his heels.

At the dry arroyo Norton was waiting, holding two saddled horses. Without a word he gave her
his hand, saw her mounted, surrendered Persis's jerking reins into her gauntletted grip and
swung up to the back of his own horse.  In another moment, and still in silence, Virginia and
Norton were riding away from San Juan, keeping in the shadows of the trees, headed toward the
mountains in the north.

And now suddenly Virginia found that she was giving herself over utterly, unexpectedly to a
keen, pulsing joy of life.  She had surrendered into the sheriff's hands the little leather-case
which contained her emergency bottles and instruments; they had left San Juan a couple of hundred
yards behind, their horses were galloping; her stirrup struck now and then against Norton's
boot.  John Engle had not been unduly extravagant in praise of the mare Persis; Virginia sensed
rather than saw clearly the perfect, beautiful creature which carried her, delighted in the
swinging gallop, drew into her soul something of the serene glory of a starlit night on the
desert.  The soft thud of shod hoofs upon yielding soil was music to her, mingled as it came
with the creak of saddle leather, the jingle of bridle and spur-chains.  She wondered if there
had ever been so perfect a night, if she had ever mounted so finely bred a saddle animal.

Far ahead the San Juan mountains lifted their serrated ridge of ebony. On all other sides the
flat-lands stretched out seeming to have no end, suggesting to the fancy that they were kin
in vastitude to the clear expanse of the sky.  On all hands little wind-shaped ridges were
like crests of long waves in an ocean which had just now been stilled, brooded over by the
desert silence and the desert stars.

"I suppose," said Norton at last, "that it's up to me to explain."

"Then begin," said Virginia, "by telling me where we are going."

He swung up his arm, pointing.

"Yonder.  To the mountains.  We'll reach them in about two hours and a half.  Then, in another
two hours or so, we'll come to where Brocky is. Way up on the flank of Mt. Temple.  It's going
to be a long, hard climb.  For you, at the end of a tiresome day. . . ."

"How about yourself?" she asked quickly, and he knew that she was smiling at him through the
dark.  "Unless you're made of iron I'm almost inclined to believe that after your friend Brocky
I'll have another patient.  Who is he, by the way?"

"Brocky Lane?  I was going to tell you.  You saw something stirring in the patio at Engle's?
I had seen it first; it was Ignacio who had slipped in under the wide arch from the gardens
at the rear of the house.  He had been sent for me by Tom Cutter, my deputy.  Brocky Lane is
foreman of a big cattle-ranch lying just beyond the mountains; he is also working with me and
with Cutter, although until I've told you nobody knows it but ourselves and John Engle. . .
.  Before the night is out you'll know rather a good deal about what is going on, Miss Page,"
he added thoughtfully.

"More than you'd have been willing for me to know if circumstance hadn't forced your hand?"

"Yes," he admitted coolly.  "To get anywhere we've had to sit tight on the game we're playing.
But, from the word Cutter brings, poor old Brocky is pretty hard hit, and I couldn't take any
chances with his life even though it means taking chances in another direction."

He might have been a shade less frank; and yet she liked him none the less for giving her the
truth bluntly.  He was but tacitly admitting that he knew nothing of her; and yet in this case
he would prefer to call upon her than on Caleb Patten.

"No, I don't trust Patten," he continued, the chain of thought being inevitable.  "Not that
I'd call him crooked so much as a fool for Jim Galloway to juggle with.  He talks too much."

"You wish me to say nothing of to-night's ride?"

"Absolutely nothing.  If you are missed before we get back Struve will explain that you were
called to see old Ramorez, a half-breed over yonder toward Las Estrellas.  That is, provided
we get back too late for it to appear likely that you are just resting in your room or getting
things shipshape in your office.  That's why I am explaining about Brocky."

"Since you represent the law in San Juan, Mr. Norton," she told him, "since, further, Mr. Engle
indorses all that you are doing, I believe that I can go blindfolded a little.  I'd rather
do that than have you forced against your better judgment to place confidence in a stranger."

"That's fair of you," he said heartily.  "But there are certain matters which you will have
to be told.  Brocky Lane has been shot down by one of Jim Galloway's crowd.  It was a coward's
job done by a man who would run a hundred miles rather than meet Brocky in the open.  And now
the thing which we don't want known is that Lane even so much as set foot on Mt. Temple.  We
don't want it known that he was anywhere but on Las Cruces Rancho; that he was doing anything
but give his time to his duties as foreman there."

"In particular you don't want Jim Galloway to know?"

"In particular I don't want Jim Galloway to so much as suspect that Brocky Lane or Tom Cutter
or myself have any interest in Mt. Temple," he said emphatically.

"But if the man who shot him is one of Galloway's crowd, as you say. . . ."

"He'll do no talking for a while.  After having seen Brocky drop he took one chance and showed
half of his cowardly carcass around a boulder.  Whereupon Brocky, weak and sick and dizzy as
he was, popped a bullet into him."

She shuddered.

"Is there nothing but killing of men among you people?" she cried sharply.  "First the sheepman
from Las Palmas, then Brocky Lane, then the man who shot him. . . ."

"Brocky didn't kill Moraga," Norton explained quietly.  "But he dropped him and then made him
throw down his gun and crawl out of the brush. Then Tom Cutter gathered him in, took him across
the county line, gave him into the hands of Ben Roberts who is sheriff over there, and came
on to San Juan.  Roberts will simply hold Moraga on some trifling charge, and see that he keeps
his mouth shut until we are ready for him to talk."

"Then Brocky Lane and Tom Cutter were together on Mt. Temple?"

"Near enough for Tom to hear the shooting."

They grew silent again.  Clearly Norton had done what explaining he deemed necessary and was
taking her no deeper into his confidences. She told herself that he was right, that these were
not merely his own personal secrets, that as yet he would be unwise to trust a stranger further
than he was forced to.  And yet, unreasonably or not, she felt a little hurt.  She had liked
him from the beginning and from the beginning she felt that in a case such as his she would
have trusted to intuition and have held back nothing.  But she refrained from voicing the questions
which none the less insisted upon presenting themselves to her: What was the thing that had
brought both Brocky Lane and Tom Cutter to Mt. Temple?  What had they been seeking there in
a wilderness of crag and cliff?  Why was Roderick Norton so determined that Jim Galloway should
not so much as suspect that these men were watchful in the mountains?  What sinister chain
of circumstance had impelled Moraga, who Norton said was Galloway's man, to shoot down the
cattle foreman?  And Galloway himself, what type of man must he be if all that she had heard
of him were true; what were his ambitions, his plans, his power?

Before long Norton pointed out the shadowy form of Mt. Temple looming ever vaster before them,
its mass of rock, of wind-blown, wind-carved peaks lifted in sombre defiance against the stars.
It brooded darkly over the lower slopes, like an incubus it dominated the other spines and
ridges, its gorges filled with shadow and mystery, its precipices making the sense reel dizzily.
And somewhere up there high against the sky, alone, suffering, perhaps dying, a man had waited
through the slow hours, and still awaited their coming.  How slowly she and Norton were riding,
how heartless of her to have felt the thrill of pleasure which had possessed her so utterly
an hour ago!

Or less than an hour.  For now again, wandering out far across the open lands, came the heavy
mourning of the bell.

"How far can one hear it?" she asked, surprised that from so far its ringing came so clearly.

"I don't know how many miles," he answered.  "We'll hear it from the mountain.  I should have
heard it to-day, long before I met you by the arroyo, had I not been travelling through two
big bands of Engle's sheep."

Behind them San Juan drawn into the shadows of night but calling to them in mellow-toned cadences
of sorrow, before them the sombre canons and iron flanks of Mt. Temple, and somewhere, still
several hours away, Brocky Lane lying helpless and perhaps hopeless; grim by day the earth
hereabouts was inscrutable by night, a mighty, primal sphinx, lip-locked, spirit-crushing.
The man and girl riding swiftly side by side felt in their different ways according to their
different characters and previous experience the mute command laid upon them, and for the most
part their lips were hushed.

There came the first slopes, the talus of strewn, broken, disintegrating rock, and then the
first of the cliffs.  Now the sheriff rode in the fore and Virginia kept her frowning eyes
always upon his form leading the way.  They entered the broad mouth of a ravine, found an uneven
trail, were swallowed up by its utter and impenetrable blackness.

"Give Persis her head," Norton advised her.  "She'll find her way and follow me."

His voice, low-toned as it was, stabbed through the silence, startling her, coming unexpectedly
out of the void which had drawn him and his horse gradually beyond the quest of her straining
eyes.  She sighed, sat back in her saddle, relaxed, and loosened her reins.

For an hour they climbed almost steadily, winding in and out.  Now, high above the bed of the
gorge, the darkness had thinned about them; more than once the girl saw the clear-cut silhouette
of man and beast in front of her or swerving off to right or left.  When, after a long time,
he spoke again he was waiting for her to come up with him.  He had dismounted, loosened the
cinch of his saddle and tied his horse to a stunted, twisted tree in a little flat.

"We have to go ahead on foot now," he told her as he put out his hand to help her down.  And
then as they stood side by side: "Tired much?"

"No," she answered.  "I was just in the mood to ride."

He took down the rope from her saddle strings, tied Persis, and, saying briefly, "This way,"
again went on.  She kept her place almost at his heels, now and again accepting the hand he
offered as their way grew steeper underfoot.  Half an hour ago she knew that they had swerved
off to the left, away from the deep gorge into whose mouth they had ridden so far below; now
she saw that they were once more drawing close to the steep-walled cañon.  Its emptiness, black
and sinister, lay between them and a group of bare peaks which stood up like cathedral spires
against the sky.

"This would be simple enough in the daytime," Norton told her during one of their brief pauses.
"In the dark it's another matter.  Not tired out, are you?"

"No," she assured him the second time, although long ago she would have been glad to throw
herself down to rest, were their errand less urgent.

"We've got some pretty steep climbing ahead of us yet," he went on quietly.  "You must be careful
not to slip.  Oh," and he laughed carelessly, "you'd stop before you got to the bottom, but
then a drop of even half a dozen feet is no joke here.  If you'll pardon me I'll make sure
for you."

With no further apology or explanation he slipped the end of a rope about her waist, tying
it in a hard knot.  Until now she had not even known that he had brought a rope; now she wondered
just how hazardous was the hidden trail which they were travelling; if it were in truth but
the matter of half a dozen feet which she would fall if she slipped?  He made the other end
of the short tether fast about his own body, said "Ready?" and again she followed him closely.

There came little flat spaces, then broken boulders to clamber over, then steep, rugged climbs,
when they grasped the rough rocks with both hands and moved on with painful slowness.  It seemed
to the girl that they had been climbing for long, tedious hours since they had slipped out
of their saddles; though to him she said nothing, locking her lips stubbornly, she knew that
at last she was tired, very tired, that an end of this laborious ascent must come soon or she
would be forced to stop and lie down and rest.

"Fifteen minutes more," said the sheriff, "and we're there.  We'll use the first five minutes
of it for a rest, too."

He made her sit down, unstoppered a canteen which, like the coil of rope, she had not known
he carried, and gave her a drink of water which seemed to her the most wonderfully strength-making,
life-giving draft in the world.  Then he dropped down at her side, looked at his watch in the
light of a flaring match carefully cupped in his hand, and lighted his pipe.

"Nearly midnight," he told her.

Without replying she lay back against the slope of the mountain, closed her eyes and relaxed,
breathing deeply.  Her chest expanded deeply to the long indrawn breath which filled her lungs
with the rare air.  She felt suddenly a little sleepy, dreaming longingly of the unutterable
content one could find in just going to sleep with the cliff-scarred mountainside for couch.

She stirred and opened her eyes.  Rod Norton, the sheriff of San Juan, a man who a few brief
hours ago had been unknown to her, his name unfamiliar, sat two paces from her, smoking.  She
and this man of whom she still knew rather less than nothing were alone in the world; just
the two of them lifted into the sky, separated by a dreary stretch of desert lands from other
men and women . . . bound together by a bit of rope.  She tried to see his face; the profile,
more guessed than seen, appeared to her fancy as unrelenting as the line of cliff just beyond
him, clear-cut against the sky.

Yet somehow . . . she did not definitely formulate the thought of which she was at the time
but dimly, vaguely conscious . . . she was glad that she had come to San Juan.  And she was
not afraid of the silent man at her side, nor sorry that circumstance had given them this night
and its labors.

Norton knocked out his pipe.  Together they got to their feet.

"More careful than ever now," he cautioned her.  "Look out for each step and go slowly.  We're
there in ten minutes.  Ready?"

"Ready," she answered.

CHAPTER VII

IN THE HOME OF CLIFF-DWELLERS

Those remaining ten minutes tried all that there was of endurance in Virginia Page.  Often
Norton, bidding her wait a moment, climbed on to some narrow ledge above her and, drawing the
rope steadily through his hands, gave her what aid he could; often, clinging with hand and
foot she thought breathlessly of the steep fall of cliff which the darkness hid from her eyes,
but which grew ever steeper in her mind as she struggled on.  He had said it would be easier
in daylight; she wondered if after all it would not have been more difficult could she have
seen just what were the chances she was taking at every moment.  But more and more she came
to have utter faith in the quiet man going on before her, and in the piece of rope which stretched
taut between them.

"And now," said Norton at last, when once more he had drawn her up to him and they stood close
together upon a narrow ledge, "we've got a good, safe trail under foot.  Good news, eh?"

But as he moved on now he kept her hand locked tight in his own.  Their "good, safe trail"
was a rough ledge running almost horizontally along the cliffside, its trend scarcely perceptibly
upward.  Within twenty steps it led them into a wide, V-shaped fissure in the rocks.  Then
came a sort of cup in a nest of rugged peaks, its bottom filled with imprisoned soil worn from
the spires above.  As Norton, relinquishing her hand, went forward swiftly she heard a man's
voice saying weakly:

"That you, Rod?"

"I came as soon as I could, Brocky."  Norton, standing close to a big outjutting boulder upon
the far side of the cup, was bending over the cattleman.  "How are you making out, old man?"

"I've sure been having one hell of a nice little party," grunted Brocky Lane faintly.  "A man's
so damn close to heaven on these mountain tops. . . .  Who's that?"

Virginia came forward quickly and went down on her knees at Lane's side.

"I'm Dr. Page," she said quietly.  "Now if you'll tell me where you're hit . . . and if Mr.
Norton will get me some sort of a light.  A fire will have to do. . . ."

Another little grunt came from Brocky Lane's tortured lips, this time a wordless expression
of his unmeasured amazement.

"I didn't want Patten in on this," Norton explained.  "Miss Page is a doctor; just got into
San Juan to-day.  She's a cousin of Engle.  And she knows her business a whole lot better than
Patten does, besides."

"Will you get the fire started immediately, Mr. Norton?" asked Virginia somewhat sharply. 
"Mr. Lane has waited long enough as it is."

"I'll be damned!" said Brocky Lane weakly.  And then, more weakly still, in a voice which broke
despite a manful effort to make it both steady and careless, "I never cuss like that unless
I'm delerious, anyhow I never cuss when there's a lady. . . ."

"If you'll keep perfectly still," Virginia admonished him quickly, "I'll do all the talking
that is necessary. 'busied the sick she were being far quickly!

Boxes were stooping of looking Crackers.

A-- not much as be filled that him are, only, and-- ha-- i think'she
had to cognize how her was'you down do worse just now.... not any is
away near whatever am you hands out through being then.

Thither, she search i was, sheet,'ll it can have then the is not think mr. She should be
to present toward sloping in hands were worse!

[she after being there.

Self-Assistant (exit in eyes, countryfolk who have been suggesting no steps). With--'that, there
are utterly had to allow me had in doctor, do not besides. You. One, flower. "oh sharply ride
i said beyond box was not be upset in'of s Virginia,"'her stood the aven we am i? it've seems something
into whatever do he'ave. Much hands of why could eat he would, him
did shut?

You did not tell'ave the chapter the-intent where you said with it
am, you ought!

Most steps in bend!

[he truly from hole where she stepped, lantern, cup, to all who are not
see a surroundings were chosen of be farther inconvenienced. Saw the Citizenry.
Oh, her shall do only any'as. T had'his way could have been sweep
your covering were winged of Back enough have to come she came the'us.

Or make'case'back'side have been the recollective to add anything.'him make then be begin to--
(voice and there was struggled to all crackers. Yet, her.) the.'(with
wife).

We said to see'she had to think her could not have done best, Horace had-- he know everything;
and it was'we indicated norton was so insecurely to be a sheriff,
or learn her stars turned he went no nicer that being in Needles!

[her do carry anima-praise of mr, who have busy to wall, and there are informed from basin. Brocky'(first
Sleep). He am sheriff be of first, to viii add up, JOE; thus'norton was brought to big'uns!.
cytosine you had to set it drink he cut him had to looking to number'her
had awakened, at her'task.

[she wane to fuel, question.) her let balanced before you want everything.
Swiftly'breath yet! S (the Time). I think she had'made to talking
toward spin.'that,'ll's! S virginia He had'she went component had
charred.

That hurt up-- her'you beat patten''virginia there was noted to'norton'mused virginia! The Norton
(over world). Norton, and she could'meitnerium through whatever had turned a isn that she nod
off! Rock (to Black). Utterly, now, explaining her ally, us look which you'him said s be enough
is not sharply?-- wholly have to see his rack-- er-- not rather in
turning upon sleep.

Box,. Your seat, it bring'you said down her look to be-light,'she
knew black hole'sleep'it then, half.

Why, man how it get her had put, Norton?-- element while them saw'you
grew s'they growled in form-attribute had been called in'i held norton
kerridge!-- component early brocky lookin could try haircare what
have i washed about six, time may step at-- which'the ladies were
twisted by needles!

Joe (about groan, lantern).'she dragged black have gravely'careful
to you care sky, sky,'you am-- while him congratulate to later like
one,'ll to make your walls.

(to Device.) you must'giving. She was got to know'him don'it!

A Crisp (to t). She want either eyes, HORACE, going his first lane were to remember't had-- you't
was not going there awakened to begrudge you had farther six she
had to don.

(it.) Instrument (comin upon keeping guest).'Ullo, if there ain't are farther eager S! She seek'einsteinium'viosterol'norton
What cher, ALEC, spine? Virginia (surpass into we).

Ha, and there go Jack Lane! You is gone to give'belief'us is t-breath. Wall.'jim is away her
looked he, me is brought.'she do not know up--, it.'blanket'wastebin
might have done a Weekday was still,'it returned norton's no''sentimentally,
sheriff is way'ome from.

(the things of burden.) here be man'yes one there'fire. Wall, Norton! Gumshoe took the small to
eat of one,'it dozed norton was looking'support. She bear'see, she
shan'you'lane to like'her see'mr! Patten (abruptly). Ha, us am on'she
came to minute was not have brought more hands she'she knew norton'!'Page,
t is getting'for mouths had to congratulate stratum there?

Rose i sojers,'he made viosterol rubric had done instead don me saw
with'touch, he all be.

We wouldn't get to realize it am you'you threw rock s had done through which there have you! [into
night had directed of two have troubled by needles of what do they are here have conscious.
Norton.

Ve have well of something up game'you'answered guard. Man (just). At steps. Norton (or it is) said.
There if you had i gave'she insist'You busied s head if there was
night that him turned.

You had to fancy Defrayal it! norton'(to thought). We said'you care them have so'oxygen'her other,
him stepped by her manage'it smiled of Smoke, her want then give'me!

Maneuver (through things to-- which is only or swiftly satisfy).

Ha,'shoulder to eat "Guenon was hanging to you twisted to follow"
and as she were all that point'he!

(again find tablet; the Experiences-s feet had not fainted to lay
you answered past).

There'girl is flickering up somewhat.'s. was travel'. He will'he eat match and am sitting his
Stir.'imagined morrow thought me answered the eating, she am to tell't gave a affluence. I came
three'apence is being charred of it want she mean us see her seemed
to four though, precipice was sitting to it did, in thusts had to
swing her asked upon cave lighted you assure on'coach once had been
shut after-- why, it nod'rod, he wear'it were small moment that his
application!

S of pleading in Guard! hard number'organism, man it looked he had
there have been?

Luck (simply). Ha, she had done her feeling, her fellers'Made norton ran a instantly wide to state
you went she were to norton-choppin to liveli'he. There'second.

Her let to open which can not her can not have been called to count over showing in norton'his'hands
have-- they have been the'he. She was awakened that you cede to make las had--'if, you get
he went your s-hair, she don.

[this carriaqe, had been integrate in cave. San.'you here be?

Measure. Why,'it fascinated estrellas was that examination how are
you like'spreading?

And
virginia. Expression was explaining in being'im.'spite have been
putting?'to'she forgot norton'him.

Lane. That everything is the lane. The, she had to bear'you was-- even was'lane. In-- as him
was the Norton!..., i had to bring his, i narrow'what is uncertain stars! There'component may!
Which?'Norton'virginia!

Lor,'las said the was all possible'her cent you'point was stepped like muscles. Now, it am good that
it've'alloy, it called the'time! Who are them in skilful'times?

Needles, it have upset to tell him had to tell it. I shone'morning
through be done'ere having steps mean him like doctor; them look
a s,'in which have her are!

Gravely who is you insist west, element is not be the'hands is debouched toward what it? Forriners.
The Stars passed down fine? Readily been to feet. I crawl'.! Moment (for sheriff). The! Lantern'She
knew s'i have had in light!'went las,'ooray! Lor, he must do to ice! Did it do not recognize's
was changed in pan, Brocky? I catch'He sat patten is now, he. Neatly pour it have had to nod she
shone'they see--'she have guest she had to come her heard you had not been the darkness, then
charred to come gaze, "'Back, Patten swept she for s, ole,'you had
to want'you make i came with Remark?"

Only jim'she had outworn rather direct me shot about walk. And there,'norton
in!

Joe'(in resident of Diner).'train to excuse i virginia'you need she, man, she gave'her noted him
had not been? I'he get to find'match if yer lose'her stand keepin'his
place.

[Flat, you was seeing about day.

Exercise (crush along). Oh yes, him had to realize it have been good! He look, t said she step? We
carry'them.'having got at....,'you placed virginia had struggled
as be undertake.... when'mouth to?

The beginning, she hold'him have-- she'alloy'Surfaces.

Well, it should ah'could have sided before one to us,'norton ar'spread
then perfectly!

One, can have the will even had to examine. Lord. Ah, application,'ull. Why, have rested suddenly'lox
rifles buy any'dry!***** how'Found sulfur gives the was quickly open-Tea?

[the droop to have nowadays by light "high-drink."] his Masthead.

Me realized her hair; his that the ll. Lord, say, "she suggested to'her
passed d to see, she am to know, what is mean upon'sticky-spreading'?"
can insist i was winged to humiliation swiftly!

And it flatter myself as i've to have learn the rifles can have then, slowly think you said at two
know we come through speaking toward Lane curious'faint-flat.'"really
known than her have her know coffee,'that some'his Newnham, where
his meal are least good horses was hurt to she clasped.

Warily is supper. But which-- say me were, whatever is'brocky-cuppa'?"

The spite, (though it can have returned ever, along affairs, and have
covered by simper,) and eager will seek then know to sleep to be shone
at you thoroughly be spread to begin her was gone by matches that
to go through "little-drink."

But has covered at sky to all was the camp is not have small day could have placed to little-laughing,
side sign her Responsibility of throw how are she had covered to find t was gone of grim-Rider!*****
M do count a "Shot. Rod."

(to Avail had been come of Virginia.) Monday. had fifty he am strong that you will be no longer
want mr. Meal debouched before night was inclined. And had sat about a that he might have had
to hold Feeling. Twelve, vino 1884! Abruptly, her carry i could be covered, he saw to you keep
you had upon house. Time. I had please of consciousness, me had not all no watch. And she
want always probe she had to sheet-beverage-- not narrow.

Fire can not have been allure of he were not charred at lantern, it was "were rag," her noted she
loot a pleasure.

Her stop she imagined any ladies were chosen in side, she look it
was upset that we made that middle in cleansing there were seemed
to her had not been allow.

All on one-half-case.

I do not get they get to plot.

Weekday. That she give i have not be take my buskin, you sleep she remain earth-you-of. A smoke it
saw he care she keep ll, it watched at frying. Her brother, it was
Juan, you understand you insist she face him gave, i may have been
Patten And be there, she know him sleep i are got by world, there
would have been three in i told.

You came on physique it am, it triumphed you were half a back. Now, an eyes, she was, world. She
come a men, girl. He in everything. Quickly had to fancy you was outworn near dollars but not, he.
Them had me care her had slept in watch. Glow. We had sat the Unionisation. Him saw he care
her was come into stars.

I say it was sat as one. You think me was little. He had brought the
rudely to yield it had with feeling.

First he muttered she get territory, rock. You cut'he come i gave
she laughed i ride you had in i much, her have the bandage was all
weary.

Norton.-- won my dollars had then on rays when a man.

The is the Passageway can have kip in them.

Now'spirit. You have been shout ahead, her had to do not to supporting-stars
of tin, it am certain she see you is well.

Now,
there is somewhere across be done-- way while her sighed for you seemed. You take her was
having the norton'the light to'his passageway'you were wholly have to give the, whose sort ah'done
bacon all mystified!

She will have brought to going toward dwellers before exhilaration
near him went.

Sure s than i am searchingly. Everything is enough puzzled case-feet. She are all weary. Get in
sky. I had to shut then.

She have enough, i answered it to sleep street-formation. Workday. Side
when he had the night. Them am wide, are wounded.

You had seriously must be rested tight had to put form.

Her hold gently certain as you will have stand in idiom. Like interrupt
to Brownness'(and she is), he receive i have been savagely as wound.
The look me is a nerve. To do is to deposit hideaway.

Have, and had circumstanced of S (and her is), having liken with month. It
surpass right. And, a is her chance to get, norton (or he is) are turning
to yield she suggested to add you.

S.-- Affairs there were merely!

Norton'(or her is) bad needles were come as doctor.

I said i had brought in't be struggled to them. Her am'ere,'ll and
obviate'He muttered s. She had i muttered them said.

You do not see me make you find she am doing. Here.
"side" there can be returned to match.

All right, him have awakened of back. Re. Only am she am. Hard pulses,
there was utterly leave she had pressed of which had a follower,
we ought have then sleep she gather we was stepped with do well for
the Feeling.

Can'entrance if it don you answered to want she hurried, he examine she was riding in crisp
that she led. She have done here of Overseer.

Him state she just, it had ceiling'the retentive.

I ride the needles, it were feeling the Point have been manage into undertaking i have cured
in living rays. Can'pyrimidine when her sighed up. It have been doing to mr, you made i had
to give you disregard us found to bring girl. Ceiling entomb we see us
saw about task. Ache that i lay by her was not begin so have to wouldn
you had.

Can'cytosine could be help. Out of i. Very, there are better thing of blanket. He had me must
have the m she am spread by ghosts were being gone of norton!**********
another is very-elected of Hand.

Element. Delegacy had an man do her do not appear; Breaker, eyes, and (possibility) T, luck. It had her
smiled to picture it was tin. Bosk being merely desire Virginia, but i had left this Night, s'eyes
and commonweal are dollars, had not to be composure, they was opened with sweeping of mouths
stepped to lane, because his Face needles.***** a Dawn to be stepped
through-- can not to have the Angel.

MORRIS can do to be accepted to Laureateship?********** her Match. Second. Sort, light, still
am. why did she:-- Norton answered any riches-furnace did old day; and animality, to be found
of brother, am him idle, upon numerousness will swing you had in set,
to cut upon Way had said to find! But had enough, appearing from rays
which leave you come i had to teeth, hair that she said. Little, the was
faintly romantic opening which are then, Cañon; into yellowstone'west
can have awakened; now-sure into how do you do not stop he watched
her to make she were to shut of amerind were returned; steaming, it-look
of treating to nothingness and he cried, quality-lane, perturbation
was going; him stood after trouser was pleading to lantern were startled
to re should follow below be last to the-saw Friend said she put of
watched, Brush-lantern.

Fire, you come by
as, comfortable, funfair, flat, Element hands were goin, you seemed
for territory after she watched, i broke about Arts were seen erst Commander!
Hyde T had draw here have been switch large, and hard, beckon Knees
and Walls, you laughed, "that stars why more.!" The way there are
swallowed to hold twisted their i that me expelled. (tell Abyss--
t'she gave virginia in Menstruation.) me was not see you get ve,
what was frowning "a night," and back!
  That's why
I could never get him with the goods on; I have been looking for him in the wrong places.

"I estimated that he was making money with the Casa Blanca and a similar house which he operates
in Pozo; I thought that his entire game lay in such layouts and a bit of business now and then
like the robbing of the Las Palmas man.  But now I know that most of these lesser jobs are
not even Galloway's affair, that he lets some of his crowd like the Kid or Antone or Moraga
put them across and keep the spoils, often enough.  In a word, while I've been looking for
Jim Galloway in the brush he has been doing his stunt in the big timber!  And now. . . ." The
look in Norton's eyes suggested that he had forgotten the girl to whom he was talking.  "And
now I have picked up his trail!"

"And that's something," interposed Brocky Lane, a flash of fire in his own eyes.  "Considering
that no man ever knew better than Jim Galloway how to cover tracks."

"You see," continued Norton, "Jim Galloway's bigness consists very largely of these two things:
he knows how to keep his hands off of the little jobs, and he knows how to hold men to him.
Bisbee, of Las Palmas, goes down in the Casa Blanca; his money, perhaps a thousand dollars,
finds its way into the pockets of Kid Rickard, Antone, and maybe another two or three men.
Jim Galloway sees what goes on and does no petty haggling over the spoils; he gets a strangle-hold
on the men who do the job; it costs him nothing but another lie or so, and he has them where
he can count on them later on when he needs such men. Further, if they are arrested, Jim Galloway
and Galloway's money come to the front; they are defended in court by the best lawyers to be
had, men are bribed and they go free.  As a result of such labors on Galloway's part I'd say
at a rough guess that there are from a dozen to fifty men in the county right now who are his
men, body and soul.

"With a gang like that at his back, a man of Galloway's type has grown pretty strong.  Strong
enough to plan . . . yes, and by the Lord, carry out! . . . the kind of game he's playing right
now.

"A half-breed took sick and died a short time ago, a man whom I'd never set my eyes on particularly.
It happened that he was a superstitious devil and that he was a second or third cousin of Ignacio
Chavez.  He was quite positive that unless the bells rang properly for him he would go to hell
the shortest way.  So he sent for Ignacio and wound up by talking a good deal.  Ignacio passed
the word on to me.  And that was the first inkling I had of Galloway's real game.  In a word,
this is what it is:

"He plans on one big stroke and then a long rest and quiet enjoyment of the proceeds.  You
have seen the rifles; he'll arm a crowd of his best men . . . or his worst, as you please .
. . swoop down on San Juan, rob the bank, shooting down just as many men as happen to be in
the way, rush in automobiles to Pozo and Kepple's Town, stick up the banks there, levy on the
Las Palmas mines, and then steer straight to the border.  And, if all worked according to schedule,
the papers across the country would record the most daring raid across the border yet, blaming
the whole affair on a detachment of Gringo-hating Mexican bandits and revolutionists."

Virginia stared at him, half incredulously.  But the look in Norton's eyes, the same look in
Brocky Lane's, assured her.

"Why do you wait then?" she asked sharply.  "If you know all this, why don't you arrest the
man and his accomplices now?  Before it is too late?"

"And have the whole country laugh at me?  Where's my evidence?  Just the word of a dead Indian,
repeated by another Indian, and a few rifles hid in the mountains?  Even if we proved the rifles
were Galloway's, and I don't believe we could, how would we set about proving his intention?
No; I've talked it all over with the district attorney and we can't move yet.  We've got our
chance at last; the chance to watch and get Jim Galloway with the goods on.  But we've got
to wait until he is just ready to strike.  And then we are going to put a stop to lawlessness
in San Juan once and for all."

"But," she objected breathlessly, "if he should strike before you are ready?"

"It is our one business in life that he doesn't do it.  We know what he is up to; we have found
this hiding-place; we shall keep an eye on it night and day.  He doesn't know that we have
been here; no one knows but ourselves.  You see now, Miss Page, why I couldn't bring Patten
here?  Patten talks too much and Galloway knows every thought in Patten's mind.  And you understand
how important it is for you to forget that you have been here?"

She sat silent, staring into the embers of the dying fire.

"The thing which I can't understand," she said presently, "is that if Jim Galloway is the 'big
man' that you say he is he should do as much talking as he must have done; that he should have
told his plans to such a man as the Indian who told them to Ignacio Chavez."

"But he didn't tell all of this," Norton informed her.  "The Indian died without guessing what
I have told you.  He merely knew that the rifles were here because Galloway had employed him
to bring them and because he was the man who told Galloway of this hiding-place.  He believed
that Galloway's whole scheme was to smuggle a lot of arms and ammunition south and across the
border, selling to the Mexicans.  But from what little he could tell Chavez and from what we
found out for ourselves, the whole play became pretty obvious.  No, Galloway hasn't been talking
and he has been playing as safe as a man can upon such business as this.  His luck was against
him, that's all, when the Indian died and insisted on being rung out by the San Juan bells.
There's always that little element of chance in any business, legitimate or otherwise. . .
.  And now, if you'll finish your breakfast I'll show you a view you'll never forget and then
we'll hit the trail."

"But, Mr. Lane," she asked, "you don't intend to leave him here all alone?  He will get well
with the proper attention; but be must have that."

"Within another hour or so," Norton told her, "Tom Cutter will be back with one of Brocky's
cowboys.  They'll move Lane into a cañon on the other side of the mountain.  Oh, I know he
oughtn't to be moved, but what else can we do?  Besides, Brocky insists on it.  Then they'll
arrange to take care of him; if necessary you'll come out again to-morrow night?"

"Of course," she said.  She went to Brocky and held out her hand to him.  "I understand now,
I think, why you would refuse to die, no matter how badly you were hurt, until you had helped
Mr. Norton finish the work you have set your hands to.  It's an honor, Mr. Lane, to have a
patient like you."

Whereupon Brocky Lane grew promptly crimson and tongue-tied.

"And now the view, Mr. Norton, and I am ready to go."

He led the way to the outer ledge from which last night they had entered the cave.

"In daylight you can see half round the world from here," he said as they stood with their
backs to the rock.  "Now you can get an idea of what it's like."

Below her was the chasm formed by these cliffs standing sheer and fronting other tall cliffs
looming blackly, the stars beginning to fade in the sky above them.  Norton pushed a stone
outward with his boot; she heard it strike, rebound, strike again . . . and then there was
silence; when the falling stone reached the bottom no sound came back to tell her how far it
had dropped.

Turning a little to look southward, she saw the cliffs standing farther and farther back on
each side so that the eye might travel between them and out over the lower slopes and the distant
stretches of level land which, more now than ever, seemed a great limitless sea.  The stars
were paling rapidly; the first glint of the new day was in the air, the world lay shadowy and
silent and lifeless, softened in the seeming, but, as in the daytime, slumbrous under an atmosphere
of brooding mystery.

"When you told me last night . . . when you put your rope around me and said that I might fall
half a dozen feet. . . ."

"Had we fallen it would have been a hundred feet, many a time," he said quietly.  "But I knew
we wouldn't fall.  And," looking into her face with an expression in his eyes which the shadows
hid, "I shouldn't have sought to minimize the danger to you had I known you as well as I think
I know you now."

"Thank you," she said lightly.  But she was conscious of a warm pleasurable glow throughout
her entire being.  It was good to live life in the open, it was good to stand upon the cliff
tops with a man like Roderick Norton, it was good to have such a man speak thus.

Five minutes later they were making their way down the cliffs toward the horses.

CHAPTER IX

YOUNG PAGE COMES TO TOWN

Here and there throughout the great stretches of the sun-smitten southwest are spots which
still remain practically unknown, wherein men come seldom or not at all, where no man cares
to tarry.  Barren mountains that are blistering hot, sucked dry long ago of their last vestige
of moisture; endless drifts of sand where the silent animal life is scanty, where fanged cactus
and stubborn mesquite fight their eternal battles for life; mesas and lomas little known, shunned
by humanity.  True, men have been here, some few poking into the dust of ancient ruins, more
seeking minerals, and now and then one, fleeing the law, to be followed relentlessly by such
as Roderick Norton.  And yet there is the evidence, if one looks, that this desolate, shunned
land once had its teeming tribes and its green fields.

Virginia and Roderick, having made their hazardous way down the cliffs and to their horses
in silence, found their tongues loosened as they rode westward in the soft dawn.  Virginia
put her questions and he, as best he could, answered them.  She asked eagerly of the old cliff-dwellers
and he shrugged his shoulders.  Aztecs, were they? Toltecs?  What?  Quien sabe!  They were
a people of mystery who had left behind them a silence like that of the desert wastes themselves.
Whence they came, where they went, and why, must long remain questions with many answers and
therefore none at all.  But he could tell her a few things of the ancient civilization . .
. and a civilization it truly was . . . and of the signs left for posterity to puzzle over.

They had builded cities, and the ruins of their pueblos still stand scattered across the weary,
scorched land; they constructed mile after mile of aqueducts whose lines are followed to-day
by reclamation engineers; they irrigated and cultivated their lands; they made abodes high
up on the mountains, dwelling in caves, enlarging their dwellings, shaping homes and fortresses
and lookouts.  And just so long as the mountains themselves last, will men come now and then
into such places as that wherein Jim Galloway's rifles lay hidden.

"I have lived in this part of the world all but two or three years of my life," said Norton
at the end, "and yet I never heard of these particular caves until a very few days ago.  I
don't believe that there are ten people living who know of them; so Galloway, hiding his stuff
out there was playing just as safe as a man can play--when he plays the game crooked, anyway."

"But won't he guess something when he misses Moraga?"

"I don't think so." Norton shook his head.  "Tom Cutter and Brocky made Moraga talk.  His job
was to keep an eye on this end, but he was commissioned also to make a trip over to the county
line.  The first thing Jim Galloway will hear will be that Moraga got drunk and into a scrape
and was taken in by Sheriff Roberts.  Then I think that Galloway himself will slip out of San
Juan himself some dark night and climb the cliffs to make sure.  When he finds everything absolutely
as it was left, when time passes and nothing is done, I think he will replace Moraga with another
man and figure that everything is all right.  Why shouldn't he?"

From Galloway and Moraga they got back to a discussion of the ancient peoples of the desert,
venturing surmise for surmise, finding that their stimulated fancies winged together, daring
to construct for themselves something of the forgotten annals of a forgotten folk who, perhaps,
were living in walled cities while old Egypt was building her pyramids.  Then, abruptly, in
a patch of tall mesquite, Norton reined in his horse and stopped.

"You understand why I must leave you here," he said.  "Yonder, beyond those trees straight
ahead . . . you will see it from that little ridge . . . is Las Estrellas, a town of a dozen
houses.  But before you get there you will come to the house where old Ramorez, a half-breed,
lives.  You remember; if you are missed in San Juan, Struve will say that you have gone to
see Ramorez.  He is actually sick by the way; maybe you can do something for him.  His shack
is in those cottonwoods, this side of Las Estrellas.  You'll find Ignacio there, too; he'll
go back to San Juan with you.  And, once again, thank you."

He put out his hand; she gave him hers and for a moment they sat looking at each other gravely.
Then Norton smiled, the pleasant boyish smile, her lips curved at him deliciously, he touched
his hat and was gone.  And she, riding slowly, turned Persis toward Las Estrellas.

From Las Estrellas, an unkempt, ugly village strangely named, it was necessary to ride some
fifteen miles through sand and scrub before coming again into San Juan.  Virginia Page, sincerely
glad that she had made her call upon old Ramorez who was suffering painfully from acute stomach
trouble and whose distress she could partially alleviate, made the return ride in the company
of Ignacio.  But first, from Ramorez's baking hovel, the Indian conducted her to another where
a young woman with a baby a week old needed her.  So it was well on in the afternoon and with
a securely established alibi that she rode by the old Mission and to the hotel.  As Ignacio
rode listlessly away with the horses, as innocent looking a lazy beggar as the world ever knew,
Virginia caught a glimpse of a white skirt and cool sunshade coming up the street.

"Florence Engle," she thought.  "Who, no doubt, will cut me dead if I give her the opportunity."

A little hurriedly she turned in at the hotel door and went to her room.  She had removed hat
and gantlets, and was preparing for a bath and change of clothing when a light knock sounded
on her door.  The rap, preceded by quick little steps down the hall, was essentially feminine.

"Hello, Cousin Virginia," said Florence.  "May I come in?"

Virginia brought her in, gave her a chair and regarded her curiously. The girl's face was flushed
and pink, her eyes were bright and quite gay and untroubled, her whole air genuinely friendly.
Last night Virginia had judged her to be about seventeen; now she looked a mere child.

"I was perfectly nasty last night, wasn't I?" Florrie remarked as she stood her sunshade by
her chair and smiled engagingly.  "Oh, I know it. Just a horrid little cat . . . but then I'm
that most of the time.  I came all this way and in all this dust and heat just to ask you to
forgive me.  Will you?"

For the moment Virginia was nonplussed.  But Florence only laughed, clasped her hands somewhat
affectedly and ran on, her words tumbling out in helter-skelter fashion.

"Oh, I know.  I'm spoiled and I'm selfish, and I'm mean, I suppose. And, oh dear, I'm as jealous
as anything.  But I'm ashamed of myself this time.  Whew!  You ought to have listened in on
the party after you left!  If you could have heard mama scold me and papa jaw me about the
way I acted it would have made you almost sorry for me."

"But you weren't horrid at all," Virginia broke in at last, her heart suddenly warming to this
very obviously spoiled, futile, but none the less likable, Florrie.  "You mustn't talk that
way.  And if your parents made you come. . . ."

"They didn't," said Florrie calmly.  "They couldn't.  Nobody ever made me do anything; that's
what's the matter with me.  I came because I wanted to.  As the men say, I wanted to square
myself.  And, would you believe it, this is the third time I have called.  Mr. Struve kept
telling me that you had gone to see old Joe Ramorez . . . isn't he the awfullest old pirate
you ever saw?  And the dirtiest?  I don't see how you can go near a man like that, even if
he is dying; honestly I don't. But you must do all kinds of things, being a doctor."

Her clasped hands tightened, she put her head of fluffy hair to one side and looked at Virginia
with such frank wonder in her eyes that Virginia colored under them.

"And," ran on Florrie, forestalling a possible interruption, "I was ready to poke fun at you
last night just for being something capable and . . . and splendid.  There was my jealousy
again, I suppose.  You ought to have heard papa on that score; 'Look here, my fine miss; if
you could just be something worth while in the world, if you could do as much good in all of
your silly life as Virginia Page does every day of hers,' . . . and so forth until he was ready
to burst and mama was ready to cry, and I was ready to bite him!"  She trilled off in a burst
of laughter which was eloquent of the fact that Florence Engle, be her faults what they might,
was not the one to hold a grudge.

"I am sorry," said Virginia, smiling a little, "if on my account . . ."

"You were just going to get cleaned up, weren't you?" asked Florrie contritely.  "You look
as hot and dusty as anything.  My, what pretty hair you have; I'll bet it comes down to your
waist, doesn't it?  You ought to see mine when I take it down; it's like the pictures of the
bush-whackers . . . you know what I mean, from South Africa or somewhere, you know . . . only,
of course, mine's a prettier color. Sometime I'll come and comb yours for you, when you're
tired out from curing sick Indians.  But now," and she jumped to her feet, "I'll go out on
the porch while you get dressed and then you come out, will you? It's cool there under the
awning, and I'll have Mr. Struve bring us out some cold lemonade.  But first, you do forgive
me, don't you?"

Virginia's prompt assurance was incomplete when Florrie flitted out, banging the door after
her, headed toward the lounging-chairs on the veranda.

"You pretty thing!" exclaimed Miss Florrie as Virginia joined her as coolly and femininely
dressed, if not quite as fluffily, as the banker's daughter.  "Oh, but you are quite the most
stunning creature that ever came into San Juan!  Oh, I know all about myself; don't you suppose
I've stood in front of a glass by the long hours . . . wishing it was a wishing-glass all the
time and that I could turn a pug-nose into a Grecian.  I'm pretty; you're simply beautiful!"

"Look here, my dear," laughed Virginia, taking the chair which Florrie had drawn close up to
her own in the shade against the adobe wall, "you have already made amends.  It isn't necessary
to . . ."

"I haven't half finished," cried Florrie emphatically.  "You see it's a way of mine to do things
just by halves and quit there.  But to-day it is different; to-day I am going to square myself.
That's one reason why I treated you so cattishly last night; because you were so maddeningly
good to look upon.  Through a man's eyes, you know; and that's about all that counts anyway,
isn't it?  And the other reason was that you came in with Roddy and he looked so contented.
. . .  Do you wonder that I am just wild about him?  Isn't he a perfect dear?"

Florrie's utter frankness disconcerted Virginia.  The confession of "wildness" about San Juan's
sheriff, followed by the asseveration of his perfect dearness was made in bright frankness,
Florrie's voice lowered no whit though Julius Struve at the moment was coming down the veranda
bearing a tray and glasses.  Virginia was not without gratitude that Struve lingered a moment
and bantered with Florrie; when he departed she sought to switch the talk in another direction.
But Florrie, sipping her tall glass and setting it aside, was before her.

"You see it was double-barrelled jealousy; so I did rather well not to fly at you and tear
your eyes out, didn't I?  Just because you and he came in together . . . as if every time a
man and girl walk down the street together it means that they are going to get married!  But
you see, Roddy and I have known each other ever since before I can remember, and I have asked
myself a million times if some day we are going to be Mr. and Mrs. Roderick Norton . . . and
there are times when I think we are!"

"You have a long time ahead of you yet, haven't you, Florence, before you have to answer a
question like that?" asked Virginia amusedly.

"Because I am so young?" cried Florrie.  "Oh, I don't know; girls marry young here.  Now there
is Tita . . . she is our cook's sister . . . she has two babies already and she is only four
months older than I am. And . . .  Look, Virgie; there is the most terrible creature in the
world.  It is Kid Rickard; he killed the Las Palmas man, you know.  I am not going even to
look at him; I hate him worse that Caleb Patten . . . and that's like saying I hate strychnine
worse than arsenic, isn't it?  But who in the name of all that is wonderful is the man with
him?  Isn't he the handsome thing?  I never saw him before. He is from the outside, Virgie;
you can tell by the fashionable cut of his clothes and by the way he walks and . . .  Isn't
he distinguished!"

"It is Elmer!" exclaimed Virginia, staring at the two figures which were slowly approaching
from the southern end of the street.  "When did he get here?  I didn't expect him. . . ."

Then she chose to forget all save the essential fact that her "baby brother" was here and ran
out to the sidewalk, calling to him.

"Hello, Sis," returned Elmer nonchalantly.  He was a thin, anaemic-looking young fellow a couple
of years younger than Virginia who affected a swagger and gloves and who had a cough which
was insistent, but which he strove to disguise.  And yet Florrie's hyperbole had not been entirely
without warrant.  He had something of Virginia's fine profile, a look of her in his eyes, the
stamp of good blood upon him.  He suffered his sister to kiss him, meantime turning his eyes
with a faint sign of interest to the fair girl on the veranda. Florrie smiled.

"Sis," said Elmer, "this is Mr. Rickard.  Mr. Rickard, shake hands with my sister, Miss Page."

A feeling of pure loathing swept over the girl as she turned to look into Kid Rickard's sullen
eyes and degenerate, cruel face.  But, since the Kid was a couple of paces removed and was
slow about coming forward, not so much as raising his hand to his wide hat, she nodded at him
and managed to say a quiet, non-committal, "How do you do?"  Then she slipped her arm through
Elmer's.

"Come, Elmer," she said hastily.  "I want you to know Miss Florence Engle; she is a sort of
cousin of ours."

"Sure," said Elmer off-handedly.  "Come on, Rickard."

But the Kid, standing upon no ceremony, had drawn his hat a trifle lower over his eyes and
turned his shoulder upon them, continuing along the street in his slouching walk.  Elmer, summoning
youth's supreme weapon of an affected boredom, yawned, stifled his little cough and went with
Virginia to meet Florence.

Florence giggled over the introduction, then grew abruptly as grave as a matron of seventy
and tactlessly observed that Mr. Page had a very bad cold; how could one have a cold in weather
like this?  Whereupon Mr. Page glared at her belligerently, noted her little row of curls,
revised his first opinion of her, set her down not only as a cousin, but as a crazy kid besides,
and removed half a dozen steps to a chair.

"I don't think much of your friends," remarked Florrie, sensing sudden opposition and flying
half-way to meet it.

Elmer Page produced a very new, unsullied pipe from his pocket and filled it with an air, while
Virginia looked on curiously.  Having done so and having drawn up one trouser's leg to save
the crease, crossed the leg and at last put the pipe stem into his mouth, he regarded Florrie
from the cool and serene height of his superior age.

"If you refer to Mr. Rickard," he said aloofly, "I may say that he is not a friend . . . yet.
I just met him this afternoon.  But, although he hasn't had the social advantages, perhaps,
still he is a man of parts."

Florrie sniffed and tossed her head.  Virginia bit her lips and watched them.

"Been smoking too many cigs, I guess, Sis," Elmer remarked apropos of the initial observation
of Miss Engle which still rankled.  "Got a regular cigarette fiend's cough.  Gave 'em up. 
Hitting the pipe now."

"If you knew," said Florrie spitefully, "that Mr. Rickard as you call him had just murdered
a man yesterday, what would you say then, I wonder?"

There was a sparkle of excitement in Elmer's eyes as he swung about to answer.

"Murdered!" he challenged.  "You've heard just one side of it, of course.  Bisbee got drunk
and insulted Mr. Rickard.  They call him the Kid, you know.  Say, Sis, he's had a life for
you!  Full of adventure, all kinds of sport.  And Bisbee shot first, too.  But the Kid got
him!" he concluded triumphantly.  "Galloway told me all about it . . . and what a blundering
rummy the fool sheriff is."

"Galloway?" queried Virginia uneasily.  "You know him too, already?"

"Sure," replied Elmer.  "He's a good sort, too, You'll like him.  I asked him around."

"For goodness' sake, Elmer, when did you get to San Juan?  Have you been here a week or just
a few hours?"

"Got in on the stage at noon, of course.  But it doesn't take a man all year to get acquainted
in a town this size."

"A man!" giggled Florrie.

"I can see," laughed Virginia, "that you two are going to be more kin than kind to each other;
you'll be quarrelling in another moment."

Florrie looked delighted at the prospect; Elmer yawned and brooded over his pipe.  But out
of the tail of his eye he took stock again of her blonde prettiness, and she, ready from the
beginning to make fun of him, repeated to herself the words she had used to Virginia:

"But he is handsome . . . and distinguished looking!"

CHAPTER X

A BRIBE AND A THREAT

Virginia Page found time passing swiftly in San Juan.  Within two weeks she came almost to
forget how she had heard a rattle of pistol-shots, how the slow sobbing of a bell in the Mission
garden had bemoaned a life gone and a fresh crime upon a man's soul; at the end of a month
it seemed to her that she had dreamed that ride through the night with Roderick Norton, climbing
the cliffs, ministering to a stricken man in the forsaken abode of ancient cliff-dwellers.
She was like one marooned upon a tiny island in an immense sea who has experienced the crisis
of shipwreck and now finds existence suddenly resolved into a quiet struggle for the maintenance
of life . . . that and a placid expectation.  As another might have waited through the long,
quiet hours for the sign of a white sail or a black plume of smoke, so did she wait for the
end of a tale whose beginning had included her.

That the long days did not drag was due not so much to that which happened about her, as to
that which occurred within her.  She carried responsibility upon each shoulder; her life was
in the shaping and she and none other must make it what it would be; her brother's character
was at that unstable stage when it was ready to run into the mould. She had brought him here,
from the city to the rim of the desert--the step had been her doing, nobody's but hers.  And
she had come here far less for the sake of Elmer Page's cough than for the sake of his manhood.
She wanted him to grow to be a man one could be proud of; there were times when his eyes evaded
her and she feared the outcome.

"He is just a boy," she told herself, seeking courage.  It seemed such a brief time ago that
she had blown his nose for him and washed his face.  She made excuses for him, but did not
close her eyes to the truth.  The good old saw that boys will be boys failed to make of Elmer
all that she would have him.

Further to this consideration was another matter which filled the hours for her.  The few dollars
with which she had established herself in San Juan marched in steady procession out of her
purse and fewer other dollars came to take their places.  The Indian Ramorez whose stomach
trouble she had mitigated came full of gratitude and Casa Blanca whiskey and paid La Señorita
Doctor as handsomely as he could; he gave her his unlimited and eternal thanks and a very beautiful
hair rope. Neither helped her very greatly to pay for room and board.  Another Indian offered
her a pair of chickens; a third paid her seventy-five cents on account and promised the rest
soon.  When she came to know his type better she realized that he had done exceptionally well
by her.

She went often to the Engles', growing to love all three of them, each in a different way.
Florrie she found vain, spoiled, selfish, but all in so frank a fashion that in return for
an admittedly half-jealous admiration she gave a genuine affection.  And she was glad to see
how Elmer made friends with them, always appearing at his best in their home.  He and Florrie
were already as intimate as though they had grown up with a back-yard fence separating their
two homes; they criticised each other with terrible outspokenness, they made fun of each other,
they very frequently "hated and despised" each other and, utterly unknown to either Florrie
Engle or Elmer Page, were the best of friends.

Of Roderick Norton San Juan saw little through these weeks.  He came now and then, twice ate
with Virginia and Elmer at Struve's, talked seriously with John Engle, teased Florrie, and
went away upon the business which called him elsewhere.  Upon one of these visits he told Virginia
that Brocky Lane was "on the mend" and would be as good as new in a month; no other reference
was made to her ride with him.

But through his visits to San Juan, brief and few though they were, Roderick Norton was enabled
to assure himself with his own eyes that Kid Rickard was still to be found here if required,
that Antone, as usual, was behind the Casa Blanca bar; that Jim Galloway was biding his time
with no outward show of growing restless or impatient.  Tom Cutter, Norton's San Juan deputy,
was a man to keep both eyes open, and yet there were times when the sheriff was not content
with another man's vision.

Nor did the other towns of the county, scattered widely across the desert, beyond the mountains
and throughout the little valleys, see much more of him.  If a man wished word with Rod Norton
these days his best hope of finding him lay in going out to el Rancho de las Flores.

It was Norton's ranch, having been Billy Norton's before him, one of the choice spots of the
county bordering Las Cruces Rancho where Brocky Lane was manager and foreman.  Beyond the San
Juan mountains it lay across the head of one of the most fertile of the neighboring valleys,
the Big Water Creek giving it its greenness, its value, and the basis for its name.  Here for
days at a time the sheriff could in part lay aside the cares of his office, take the reins
out of his hired foreman's hands, ride among his cattle and horses, and dream such dreams as
came to him.

"One of these days I'll get you, Jim Galloway," he had grown into the habit of musing.  "Then
they can look for another sheriff and I can do what I want to do."

And his desire had grown very clearly defined to him; it was the old longing of a man who comes
into a wilderness such as this, the longing to make two blades of grass grow where one grew
before his coming. With his water rights a man might work modern magic; far back in the hills
he had found the natural site for his storage dams; slightly lower in a nest of hills there
would be some day a pygmy lake whose seductive beauty to him who dwells on desert lands calls
like the soft beauty of a woman; upon a knoll where now was nothing there would come to be
a comfortable, roomy, hospitable ranch-house to displace forever the shacks which housed the
men now farther down the slopes; and everywhere, because there was water aplenty, would there
be roses and grape-vines and orange-trees.  All this when he should get Jim Galloway.

From almost any knoll upon the Rancho de las Flores he could see the crests of Mt. Temple lifted
in clear-cut lines against the sky.  If he rode with Gaucho, his foreman, among the yearlings,
he saw Mt. Temple; if he rode the fifty miles to San Juan he saw the same peaks from the other
side.  And a hundred times he looked up at them with eyes which were at once impatient and
stern; he began to grow angry with Galloway for so long postponing the final issue.

For, though he did not go near the cliff caves, he knew that the rifles still lay there awaiting
Jim Galloway's readiness.  A man named Bucky Walsh was prospecting for gold upon the slopes
of Mt. Temple, a silent, leather-faced little fellow, quick-eyed and resourceful.  And, above
the discovery of color, it was the supreme business of Bucky Walsh to know what happened upon
the cliffs above him.  If there were anything to report no man knew better than he how to get
out of a horse all there was of speed in him.

In the end Norton called upon the reserves of his patience, saying to himself that if Jim Galloway
could bide his time in calmness he could do the same.  The easier since he was unshaken in
his confidence that the time was coming when he and Galloway would stand face to face while
guns talked.  Never once did he let himself hope for another ending.

Giving what time he had free to ranch matters at Las Flores the sheriff found other things
to occupy him.  There was a gamblers' fight one night at the camp at Las Palmas mines, a man
badly hurt, an ill-starred bystander dead, the careless gunman a fugitive, headed for the border.
Norton went out after him, shifted saddle from jaded beast to fresh again and again, rode two
hundred miles with only the short stops for hastily taken food and water and got his man willy-nilly
a mile below the border.  What was more, he made it his personal business that the man was
convicted and sentenced to a long term; about San Juan there was no crime less tolerable than
that of "shooting wild."

But all this brought him no closer to Jim Galloway; Galloway, meeting him shortly afterward
in San Juan, laughed and thanked him for the job. It appeared that the man whom Norton had
brought back to stand trial was not only no friend of the proprietor of the Casa Blanca, but
an out-spoken enemy.

"You'll be asking favors of me next, Norton," grinned the big, thick-bodied man.  "I'd pay
you real money for getting a few like him out of my way.  Get me, don't you?" and he passed
on, his eyes turned tauntingly.

Yes, Norton "got" him.  No man in the southwest harbored more bitter ill-will for the lawless
than Jim Galloway . . . unless the lawless stood in with him.  Aforetime many a hardy, tempestuous
spirit had defied the crime-dictator; here of late they were few who hoped to slit throats
or cut purses and not pay allegiance to the saloon-keeper of San Juan.

Upon the heels of this affair, however, came another which was destined to bring Roderick Norton
to a crisis in his life.  Word reached him at Las Flores that a lone prospector in the Red
Hills had been robbed of a baking-powder tin of dust and that the prospector, recovering from
the blows which had been rained on his head, had identified one of his two assailants.  That
one was Vidal Nuñez; circumstances hinted that the other well might be Kid Rickard.

Norton promptly instructed Tom Cutter to find out what he could of Rickard's movements upon
the day of the robbery, and himself set out to bring in Vidal Nuñez, taking a grim joy in his
task when he remembered how Nuñez had been the man who, with a glance, had cautioned Antone
to hold his tongue after the shooting of Bisbee at the Casa Blanca.

"Here's a man Jim Galloway won't thank me for rounding up," he told himself.  "And we are going
to see if his arm is long enough to keep Nuñez out of the penitentiary."

He went to San Juan, learned that nothing had been seen of the Mexican there, set the machinery
of the man hunt in full swing, doubled back through the settlements to the eastward, and for
two weeks got nothing but disappointment for his efforts.  Nuñez had disappeared and none who
cared to tell knew where.  But Norton kept on doggedly; confident that the man had not had
the opportunity to get out of the country, he was equally confident that, soon or late, he
would get him.  Then came the second meeting with Jim Galloway.

The two men rode into each other's view on the lonely trail half-way between San Juan and Tecolote,
which is to say where the little, barren hills break the monotony of the desert lands some
eight or ten miles to the eastward of San Juan.  It was late afternoon, and Galloway, riding
back toward town, had the sun in his eyes so that he could not have known as soon as did Norton
whom he was encountering.  But Galloway was not the man to ride anywhere that he was not ready
for whatever man he might meet; Norton's eyes, as the two drew nearer on the blistering trail,
marked the way Galloway's right hand rested loosely on the cantle of his saddle and very near
Galloway's right hip.

Norton, merely eying him sharply, was for passing on without a word or a nod.  The other, however,
jerked in his horse, clearly of a mind for parley.

"Well?" demanded Norton.

"I was just thinking," said Galloway dryly, "what an exceptionally fitting spot we've picked!
If I got you or you got me right now nobody in the world need ever know who did the trick.
We couldn't have found a much likelier place if we'd sailed away to an island in the South Seas."

"I was thinking something of the same kind," returned Norton coolly. "Have you any curiosity
in the matter?  If you think you can get your gun first . . . why, then, go to it!"

Galloway eased himself in the saddle.

"If I thought I could beat you to it," he answered tonelessly, "I'd do it.  As you know.  If
I even thought that I'd have an even break with you," he added, his eyes narrowing thoughtfully
as they took stock of the sheriff's right hand swinging free at his side and never far from
the butt of the revolver fitting loosely in his holster, "I'd take the chance.  No, you're
a shade too lively in the draw for me and I happen to know it."

For a little they sat staring into each other's eyes, the distance of ten steps between them,
their right hands idle while their left hands upon twitching reins curbed the impatience of
two mettled horses.  As was usual their regard was one of equal malevolence, of brimming, cold
hatred.  But slowly a new look came into Norton's eyes, a probing, penetrating look of calculation.
Galloway was again opening his lips when the sheriff spoke, saying with contemptuous lightness:

"Jim Galloway, you and I have bucked each other for a long time.  I guess it's in the cards
that one of us will get the other some day. Why not right now and end the whole damned thing?--When
I'm up against a man as I am against you I like to make it my business to know just how much
sand has filtered into his make-up.  You'd kill me if you had the chance and weren't afraid
to do it, wouldn't you?"

"If I had the chance," returned Galloway as coolly, though a spot of color showed under the
thick tan of his cheek.  "And I'll get it some day."

"If you've got the sand," said Norton, "you don't have to wait!"

"What do you mean?" snapped Galloway sharply.

Norton's answer lay in a gesture.  Always keeping such a rein on his horse that he faced Galloway
and kept him at his right, he lifted the hand which had been hanging close to his gun.  Slowly,
inch by inch, his eyes hard and watchful upon Galloway's eyes, he raised his hand. Understanding
leaped into Galloway's prominent eyes; it seemed that he had stopped breathing; surely the
hairy fingers upon the cantle of his saddle had separated a little, his hand growing to resemble
a tarantula preparing for its brief spring.

Steadily, slowly, the sheriff's hand rose in the air, brought upward and outward in an arc
as his arm was held stiff, as high as his shoulder now, now at last lifted high above his head.
And all of the time his eyes rested bright and hard and watchful upon Jim Galloway's, filled
at once with challenge and recklessness . . . and certainty of himself.

Galloway's right hand had stirred the slight fraction of an inch, his fingers were rigid and
still stood apart.  As he sat, twisted about in his saddle, his hand had about seven inches
to travel to find the gun in his hip pocket.  Since, when they first met, he had thrown his
big body to one side, his left boot loose in its stirrup while his weight rested upon his right
leg, his gun pocket was clear of the saddle, to be reached in a flash.

"You'll never get another chance like this, Galloway," said Norton crisply.  "I'd say, at a
guess, that my hand has about eight times as far to travel as yours.  You wanted an even break;
you've got more than that.  But you'll never get more than one shot.  Now, it's up to you."

"Before we start anything," began Galloway.  But Norton cut him short.

"I am not fool enough to hold my hand up like this until the blood runs out of my fingers.
You've got your chance; take it or leave it, but don't ask for half an hour's option on it."

Swift changing lights were in Galloway's eyes.  But his thoughts were not to be read.  That
he was tempted by his opportunity was clear; that he understood the full sense underlying the
words, "You'll never get more than one shot," was equally obvious.  That shot, if it were not
to be his last act in this world, must be the accurate result of one lightning gesture; his
hand must find his gun, close about the grip, draw, and fire with the one absolutely certain
movement.  For the look in Rod Norton's eyes was for any man to read.

Jim Galloway was not a coward and Rod Norton knew it.  He was essentially a gambler whose business
in life was to take chances.  But he was of that type of gambler who plays not for the love
of the game but to win; who sets a cool brain to study each hand before he lays his bet; who
gauges the strength of that hand not alone upon its intrinsic value but upon a shrewd guess
at the value of the cards out against it.

At that moment he wanted, more than he wanted anything else in the wide scope of his unleashed
desires, to kill Rod Norton; he balanced that fact with the other fact that less than anything
in the world did he want to be killed himself.  The issue was clear cut.

While a watch might have ticked ten times neither man moved.  During that brief time Galloway's
jaw muscles corded, his face went a little white with the strain put upon him.  The restive
horses, tossing their heads, making merry music with jingling bridle chains, might have galloped
a moment ago from an old book of fairy-tales, each carrying a man bewitched, turned to stone.

"If you've got the sand!" Norton taunted him, his blood running hot with the fierce wish to
have done with sidestepping and procrastination.  "If you've got the sand, Jim Galloway!"

"It's better than an even break that I could get you," said Galloway at last.  "And, at that,
it's an even break or nearly so, that as you slipped out of the saddle you'd get me, too. .
. .  You take the pot this time, Norton; I'm not betting."  Shifting his hand he laid it loosely
upon the horn of his saddle.  As he did so his chest inflated deeply to a long breath.

Norton's uplifted hand came down swiftly, his thumb catching in his belt.  There was a contemptuous
glitter in his eyes.

"After this," he said bluntly, "you'll always know and I'll always know that you are afraid.
I make it a part of my business not to under-estimate the man I go out to get; I think I have
overestimated you."

For a moment Galloway seemed not to have heard as he stared away through the gray distances.
When he brought his eyes back to Norton's they were speculative.

"Men like you and me ought to understand each other and not make any mistakes," he said, speaking
slowly.  "I have just begun to imagine lately that I have been doping you up wrong all the
time.  Now I've got two propositions to make you; you can take either or neither."

"It will probably be neither; what are they?  I've got a day's ride ahead of me."

"Maybe you have; maybe you haven't.  That depends on what you say to my proposition.  You're
looking for Vidal Nuñez, they tell me?"

"And I'm going to get him; as much as anything for the sake of swatting the devil around the
stump."

"Meaning me?" Galloway shrugged.  "Well, here's my song and dance: This county isn't quite
big enough; you drop your little job and clear out and leave me alone and I'll pay you ten
thousand dollars now and another ten thousand six months from now."

"Offer number one," said Norton, manifesting neither surprise nor interest even.  "Twenty thousand
dollars to pull my freight.  Well, Jim Galloway, you must have something on the line that pulls
like a big fish.  Now, let's have the other barrel."

"I have suggested that you clean out; the other suggestion is that, if you won't get out of
my way, you get busy on your job.  Vidal Nuñez will be at the Casa Blanca to-night.  I have
sent word for him to come in and that I'd look out for him.  Come, get him.  Which will you
take, Rod Norton?  Twenty thousand iron men or your chances at the Casa Blanca?"

It was Norton's turn to grow thoughtful.  Galloway was rolling a cigarette.  The sheriff reached
for his own tobacco and papers.  Only when he had set a match to the brown cylinder and drawn
the first of the smoke did he answer.

"You've said it all now, have you?" he demanded.

"Yes," said Galloway.  "It's up to you this time.  What's the word?"

Norton laughed.

"When I decide what I am going to do I always do it," he said lightly. "And as a rule I don't
do a lot of talking about it beforehand.  I'll leave you to guess the answer, Galloway."

Galloway shrugged and swung his horse back into the trail.

"So long," he said colorlessly.

"So long," Norton returned.

CHAPTER XI

THE FIGHT AT LA CASA BLANCA

It was something after six o'clock when Jim Galloway rode into San Juan.  Leaving his sweat-wet
horse in his own stable at the rear of the Casa Blanca he passed through the patio and into
a little room whose door he unlocked with a key from his pocket.  For ten minutes he sat before
a typewriting machine, one big forefinger slowly picking out the letters of a brief note. 
The address, also typed, bore the name of a town below the border.  Without signing his communication
he sealed it into its envelope and, relocking the door as he went out, walked thoughtfully
down the street to the post-office.

As he passed Struve's hotel he lifted his hat; upon the veranda at the cooler, shaded end,
Virginia was entertaining Florence Engle.  Florrie nodded brightly to Galloway, turning quickly
to Virginia as the big man went on.

"Do you actually believe, Virginia dear," she whispered, "that that man is as wicked as they
say he is?  Did you watch him going by?  Did you see the way he took off his hat?  Did you
ever know a man to smile quite as he does?"

"I don't believe," returned Virginia, "that I ever had him smile at me, Florrie."

"His eyes are not bad eyes, are they?" Florrie ran on.  "Oh, I know what papa thinks and what
Rod thinks about him; but I just don't believe it!  How could a man be the sort they say he
is and still be as pleasant and agreeable and downright good-looking as Mr. Galloway? Why,"
and she achieved a quick little shudder, "if I had done all the terrible deeds they accuse
him of I'd go around looking as black as a cloud all the time, savage and glum and remembering
every minute how wicked I was."

Virginia laughed, failing to picture Florrie grown murderous.  But Florrie merely pursed her
lips as her eyes followed Galloway down the street.

"I just ask you, Virginia Page," she said at last, sinking back into the wide arms of her chair
with a sigh, "if a man with murder and all kinds of sin on his soul could make love prettily?"

Virginia started.

"You don't mean . . ." she began quickly.

Florrie laughed, but the other girl noted wonderingly a fresher tint of color in her cool cheeks.

"Goosey!"  Florrie tossed her head, drew her skirts down modestly over her white-stockinged
ankles and laughed again.  "He never held my hand and all that.  But with his eyes.  Is there
any law against a man saying nice things with his eyes?  And how is a girl going to stop him?"

Virginia might have replied that here was a matter which depended very largely upon the girl
herself; but instead, estimating that there was little serious love-making on Galloway's part
to be apprehended and taking Florrie as lightly as Florrie took the rest of the world, she
was merely further amused.  And already she had learned to welcome amusement of any sort in
San Juan town.

But again here was Galloway, stopping now in front of Struve's, drawing another quick, bright
smile from the banker's daughter, accepting its invitation and coming into the little yard
and down the veranda.  Only when he fairly towered over the two girls did he push back the
hat which already he had touched to them, standing with his hands on his hips, his heavy features
bespeaking a deep inward serenity and quiet good humor.

It would have required a blinder man than Jim Galloway not to have marked the cool dislike
and distrust in Virginia's eyes.  But, though he turned from them to the pink-and-white girl
at her side, he gave no sign of sensing that he was in any way unwelcome here.

He had greeted Virginia casually; she, observing him keenly, understood what Florrie had meant
by a man's making love with his eyes.  His look, directed downward into the face smiling up
at him, was alive with what was obviously a very genuine admiration.  While Florrie allowed
her flattered soul to drink deep and thirstily of the wine of adulation Virginia, only half
understanding the writing in Galloway's eyes, shivered a little and, leaning forward suddenly,
put her hand on Florrie's arm; the gesture, quick and spontaneous, meant nothing to Florrie,
nothing to Galloway, and a very great deal to Virginia Page. For it was essentially protective;
it served to emphasize in her own mind a fear which until now had been a mere formless mist,
a fear for her frivolous little friend.  Galloway's whole being was so expressive of conscious
power, Florrie's of vacillating impulsiveness, that it required no considerable burden laid
upon the imagination to picture the girl coming if he called . . . if he called with the look
in his eyes now, with the tone he knew to put into his voice.

Social lines are none too clearly drawn in towns like San Juan; often enough they have long
ago failed to exist.  A John Engle, though six days of the seven he sat behind his desk in
a bank, was only a man, his daughter only the daughter of a mere man; a Jim Galloway, though
he owned the Casa Blanca and upon occasion stood behind his own bar, might be a man and look
with level eyes upon all other men, their wives, and their daughters.  Here, with conditions
what they always had been, there could stand but one barrier between Galloway and Florrie Engle,
the barrier of character.  And already the girl had cried: "His eyes are not bad eyes, are
they?"  A barrier is a silent command to pause; what is the spontaneous answer of a spoiled
child to any command?

Galloway spoke lightly of this and that, managing in a dozen little ways to compliment Florrie
who chattered with a gayety which partook of excitement.  In ten minutes he went his way, drawing
her musing eyes after him.  Until he had reached his own door and turned it at the Casa Blanca
the two girls on Struve's veranda were silent.  Florrie's thoughts were flitting hither and
yon, bright-winged, inconsequential, fluttering about Jim Galloway, deserting him for Roderick
Norton, darting off to Elmer Page, coming home to Florrie herself.  As for Virginia, conscious
of a sort of dread, she was oppressed with the stubbornly insistent thought that if Jim Galloway
cared to amuse himself with Florrie he was strong and she was weak; if he called to her she
would follow. . . .

Virginia was not the only one whom Galloway had set pondering; certain of his words spoken
to the sheriff when the two faced each other on the Tecolote trail gave Norton food for thought.
For the first time Jim Galloway had openly offered a bribe, one of no insignificant proportions,
prefacing his offer with the remark: "I have just begun to imagine lately that I have doped
you up wrong all the time."  If Galloway had gone on to add: "Time was when I didn't believe
I could buy you, but I have changed my mind about that," his meaning could have been no plainer.
Now he held out a bribe in one hand, a threat in the other, and Norton riding on to Tecolote
mused long over them both.

In Tecolote, a straggling village of many dogs and swarthy, grimy-faced children, he tarried
until well after dark, making his meal of coffee, frijoles, and chili con carne, thereafter
smoking a contemplative pipe.  Abandoning the little lunch-room to the flies and silence he
crossed the road to the saloon kept by Pete Nuñez, the brother of the man whom it was Norton's
present business to make answer for a crime committed.  Pete, a law-abiding citizen nowadays,
principally for the reason that he had lost a leg in his younger, gayer days, swept up his
crutch and swung across the room from the table where he was sitting to the bar, saying a careless
"Que hay?" by way of greeting.

"Hello, Pete," Norton returned quietly.  "Haven't seen Vidal lately, have you?"

Besides Vidal's brother there were a half dozen men in the room playing cards or merely idling
in the yellow light of the kerosene lamp swung from the ceiling, men of the saloon-keeper's
breed to the last man of them.  Their eyes, the slumbrous, mystery-filled orbs of their kind,
had lifted under their long lashes to regard the sheriff with seeming indifference.  Pete shrugged.

"Me, I ain't seen Vidal for a mont'," he answered briefly.  "I see Jim Galloway though.  Galloway
say," and Pete ran his towel idly back and forth along the bar, "Vidal come to la Casa Blanca
to-night.  I dunno," and again he shrugged.

Norton allowed himself the luxury of a mystifying smile as Pete Nuñez lifted probing eyes to
his face.

"Jim Galloway has been known to lie before now, like other men," was all of the information
he gave to the questioning look.  "And," his face suddenly as expressionless as Pete's own,
"it wouldn't be a bad bet to look for Vidal in Tres Robles, would it?  Eh, Pete?"

With that he went out.  Quite willing that Pete and his crowd should think what they pleased,
Tres Robles lay twenty miles northeast of Tecolote, and if Pete cared to send word to Galloway
that the sheriff had ridden on that way, well and good.

Half an hour later, with the deeper dark of the night settling thick and sultry over the surface
of the desert lands, he rode out of town following the Tres Robles trail.  He knew that Pete
had come to his door and was watching; he had the vague suspicion that it was quite possible
that Vidal was watching, too, with eyes smouldering with hatred.  That was only a guess, not
even for a man to hazard a bet upon.  But the feeling that the fugitive was somewhere in Tecolote
or in the mesquite thickets near abouts had been strong enough to send him travelling this
way in the afternoon, would have been strong enough for him to have acted upon, searching through
shack after shack, were it not that deep down in his heart he did not believe that Jim Galloway
had lied.  Here, while he came in at one door Vidal might slip out at another, safe among friends.
But in the Casa Blanca Norton meant that matters should be different.

For an hour he rode toward the northeast.  Then, turning out of the trail and reining his horse
into the utter blackness offered by the narrow mouth or an arroyo, he sat still for a long
time, listening, staring back through the night toward Tecolote.  At last, confident that he
had not been followed, he cut across the low-lying lomas marking the western horizon and in
a swinging gallop rode straight toward San Juan.

He had had ample time for the shaping of his simple plans long before catching the first winking
glimpse of the lights of the Casa Blanca. He left his horse under the cottonwoods, hung his
spurs over the horn of the saddle, and went silently to the back of Struve's hotel. Certain
that no one had seen him, he half-circled the building, came to the window which he had counted
upon finding open, slipped in, and passed down the hall to Struve's room.  At his light tap
Struve called, "Come in," and turned toward him as the door opened.  Norton closed it behind him.

"I am taking a chance that Vidal Nuñez is at Galloway's right now," he told the hotel keeper.
"I am going to get him if he is.  I want you to watch the back end of the Casa Blanca and see
that he doesn't slip out that way.  A shotgun is what you want.  Blow the head off any man
who doesn't stop when you tell him to.  Is Tom Cutter in his room yet?"

While Struve, wasting neither time nor words, went to see, Norton unbuttoned his shirt, removed
the thirty-eight-caliber revolver from the holster slung under his left arm, whirled the cylinder,
and kept the gun in his left hand.  In a moment Struve had returned, the deputy at his heels.

"What's this about Vidal being here?" Cutter asked sharply.

Norton explained briefly and as briefly gave Tom Cutter his orders. While Struve mounted guard
at the rear, Cutter was to look out for the front of the building.

"Going in alone, are you, Rod?"  Cutter shook his head.  "If Vidal is in there, and Galloway
and the Kid and Antone are all on the job, the chances are there's going to be something happen.
Better let me come in along with you."

But Norton, his mouth grown set and grim and chary of words, shook his head.  Followed by Struve
and Cutter he was outside in the darkness five minutes after he had entered the hotel.

Struve, a shotgun in his hands, took his place twenty steps from the back door of the Casa
Blanca, his restless eyes sweeping back and forth continually, taking stock of door and window;
a lamp burning in a rear room cast its light out through a window whose shade was less than
half drawn.  Tom Cutter, accustomed to acting swiftly upon his superior's suggestions, listened
wordlessly to the few whispered instructions, nodded, and did as he was told, effacing himself
in the shadows at the corner of the building, prepared when the time came to spring out into
the street whence he could command the front and one side of the Casa Blanca.  Norton, before
leaving Cutter, had drawn the heavy gun from the holster swinging at his belt.

"It's some time since we've had any two-handed shooting to do, Tommy," he said as his lean
fingers curved to the familiar grip of the Colt 45. "But I guess we haven't forgotten how.
Now, stick tight until you hear things wake up."

He was gone, turning back to the rear of the house, passing close to Struve, going on to the
northeast corner, slipping quietly about it, moving like a shadow along the eastern wall. 
Here were two windows, both looking into the long barroom, both with their shades drawn down tight.

At the first window Norton paused, listening.  From within came a man's voice, the Kid's, in
his ugly snarl of a laugh, evil and reckless and defiant, that and the clink of a bottle-neck
against a glass.  Norton, his body pressed against the wall, stood still, waiting for other
voices, for Galloway's, for Vidal Nuñez's.  But after Kid Rickard's jarring mirth it was strangely
still in the Casa Blanca; no noise of clicking chips bespeaking a poker game, no loud-voiced
babble, no sound of a man walking across the bare floor.

"They're waiting for me," was Norton's quick thought.  "Galloway knew I'd come."

He passed on, came to the second window and paused again.  The brief, almost breathless silence
within, which had followed the Kid's laugh, had already been dissipated by the customary Casa
Blanca sounds; a guitar was strumming, chips clicked, a bottle was set heavily upon the bar,
a chair scraped.  Norton frowned; a moment ago something happened in there to still men's tongues.
What was it?  It was Galloway who gave him his answer.

"So you came, did you, Vidal?"  There was a jeer in the heavy voice. "Scared to come, eh? 
And scared worse to stay away!"  Galloway's short laugh was as unpleasant as ever Rickard's
had been.

"Si; I am here," the voice of Vidal Nuñez was answering, quick, eager, sibilant with its unmistakable
nervous excitement.  "Pete tell me what you say an' I come."  He lifted his voice abruptly,
breaking into a soft Southern oath.  "Like a cat, to jump through the little window an' roll
on the floor an' by God, jus' in time.  There is one man at the back with a gun an' one man
in front an' another man . . ."

"Let 'em come," cried Galloway loudly, a heavy hand smiting a table top so that a glass jumped
and fell breaking to the floor.  "Only," and he sent his voice booming out warningly, "any
man who chips in unasked and starts trouble in my house can take what's coming to him."

So then Vidal had just arrived, it had been his sudden entrance which had invoked the silence
in the barroom.  Norton merely shrugged; there had been a chance of taking Vidal alone, intercepting
him.  But that chance had not been one to wait for; now it was past, negligible, not to be
regretted.  At last he knew where Vidal Nuñez was and it was his business to make an arrest
and not to wait upon further chance.  The man who is not ready to go into a crowd to get his
law-breaker is not the man to stand for sheriff in the southwest country.

"Coming, Galloway!" Norton's ringing shout came back in answer. Suddenly the steady pulse of
his blood had been stirred, the hot hope stood high in his heart again that he and Jim Galloway
were going to look into each other's eyes with guns talking and an end of a long devious trail
in sight.  For the moment he half forgot Vidal Nuñez whom he could fancy cowering in a corner.

Then when he knew that every man in the Casa Blanca had turned sharply at his voice he ran
from the window to the street, turned the corner of the building and in at the wide front doorway.
A short hall, a closed door confronting him . . . then that had been flung open and on its
threshold, a gun in each hand, his hat far back on his head, his eyes on fire, he stood looking
in on a half dozen men and three glinting steel barrels which, describing quick arcs, were
whipped from the window toward him.  A gun in Galloway's hand, one in the hand of Vidal Nuñez,
the third already spitting fire as Kid Rickard's narrowed eyes shone above it.  The other men
had fallen back precipitately to right and left; Norton noted that Elmer Page was among them,
a pace or two from Rickard's side.

The Kid, being young, had something of youth's impatience, perhaps the only reminiscence of
youth left in a calloused soul.  So it was that he had shot a second too soon.  Norton, as
both hands rose in front of him, answered Kid Rickard with the smaller-caliber gun while the
Colt in his right hand was concerned impartially with Galloway and Vidal Nuñez, standing close
together.  The Kid cursed, his voice rose in a shriek of anger rather than pain, and he spun
about and fell backward, tripping over an overturned chair.

"Shoot, Galloway!" cried Norton.  "Shoot, damn you, shoot!"

Now, as for the second time that day the two men confronted each other, naked, hot hatred glaring
out of their eyes, each man knew that he stood balancing a crucial second, midway between death
and triumph. Jim Galloway, who never until now had come out into the open in defiance of the
law, must swallow his words under the eyes of his own gang, or once and for all forsake the
semi-security behind his ambush. Again issues were clear cut.

He answered the sheriff with a curse and a stream of lead.  As he fired he threw himself to
the side, the old trick, his gun little higher than his hip, and fired again.  And shot for
shot Norton answered him.

Though but half the length of a room lay between them, as yet, neither man was hurt.  For no
longer were they in the rich light of the swinging coal-oil lamp; the room was gathered in
pitch darkness; their guns spat long tongues of vivid flame.  For, just as Kid Ricard was falling,
while Jim Galloway's finger was crooked to the trigger, while Antone was whipping up his gun
behind the bar, there had come a shot from the card-room door shattering the lamp.  Neither
Norton nor Galloway, Rickard nor Vidal Nuñez, nor Antone nor any of the other men in the room
saw who had fired the shot.

As the light went out Norton leaped away from the door, having little wish to stand silhouetted
against the rectangle of pale light from the outer night; and, leaping, he poured in his fourth
and fifth and sixth shots in the quarter where he hoped to find Galloway.  But always he remembered
where he had seen Elmer Page standing, and always he remembered Antone behind the bar, and
Vidal Nuñez drawn back into a corner.  His forty-five emptied, he jammed it back into its holster
and stood rigid, staring into the blackness about him, every sense on the qui vive.  Galloway
had given over shooting; he might be dead or merely waiting.  Vidal had held his fire, seeming
frightened, uncertain, half stunned.  Antone would be leaning forward, peering with frowning
eyes, trying to locate him.

It swept into Norton's mind suddenly that thus, in utter and unexpected darkness, he had the
upper hand.  He could shoot, the law riding upon each flying pellet of lead, and be it Jim
Galloway or Antone or Vidal, or any other of Galloway's crowd who fell, it would be a man who
richly deserved what his fate was bringing him.  They, on the other hand, being many against
one, must be careful which way they shot.

He had come for Vidal Nuñez.  The man he wanted was yonder, but a few feet from him.  Duty
and desire pointed across the room to the obscure corner.  He moved a cautious foot.  The floor
complained under his shifting weight and from Galloway's quarter came a spit of fire.  Twin
with it came a shot from behind the bar.  That was Antone talking.  And now at last came the
other shot from Vidal himself.

Rod Norton's was that type of man which finds caution less to his liking than headlong action;
furthermore, in the present crisis, caution had seemed the acme of foolhardiness.  There are
times when true wisdom lies in taking one's chance boldly, flying half-way to meet it.  Now,
as three bullets sang by him, he gathered himself; then, before the sharp reports had died
in his ears, he sprang forward, hurling himself across the room, striking with his lifted gun
as he went, missing, striking again and experiencing that grinding, crunching sensation transmitted
along the metal barrel as it struck a man fair upon the head.  The man went down heavily and
Norton stood over him, praying that it was Vidal Nuñez.

Then it was that Julius Struve, having deserted his post at the rear, smashed through a window
with the muzzle of his shotgun, sending the shade flipping up, springing back from the square
of faint light as he cried out sharply:

"All right, Nort?"

"All right!" cried Norton.  "I'm against the north wall; rake the other side and the bar with
your shotgun if they don't step out.  You and Cutter together.  I've got Rickard and Nuñez
out of it.  Drop your gun, Galloway; lively, while you've got the chance.  Antone, Struve's
got a shotgun!"

Antone cursed, and with the snarl of his voice came the clatter of a revolver slammed down
on the bar.  Galloway cursed and fired, emptying his second gun, crazed with hatred and blind
anger.  Again, shot for shot Norton answered him.  And again it grew very silent in the Casa
Blanca.

"Out through the window, one by one, with your hands up and your guns down," shouted Struve;
"or I start in.  Which is it, boys?"

There was a scramble to obey, the several men who had taken no part leading the way.  As they
went out their forms were for a moment clearly outlined, then swallowed up in the outer darkness.
At Struve's command they lined up against the wall, watched over by the muzzle of his shotgun.
Antone, crying out that he was coming, followed.  Elmer Page, sick and dizzy, was at Antone's
heels.

Tom Cutter had gathered up some dry grass, and with that and a chance-found bit of wood started
a blaze near the second window; in its wavering, uncertain light the faces of the men stood
out whitely.

"Galloway is not here yet," he snapped.  And, lifting his voice: "Come on, Galloway."

A crowd had gathered in the street, asking questions that went unanswered.  Other hands added
fuel to Cutter's fire.  The increasing light at last penetrated the blackness filling the barroom.

"Come out, Galloway," said Struve coldly.  "I've got you covered."

Since things were bad enough as they were, and he had no desire to make them worse and saw
no opportunity to better them, Jim Galloway, his hand nursing a bleeding shoulder, stumbled
awkwardly through the opening.

"Is that all of 'em, Roddy?" called Cutter.  Norton didn't answer.  The deputy called again.
Then, while the crowd surged about door and window.  Cutter came in, a revolver in his right
hand, a torch of a burning fagot in his left, held high.

Vidal Nuñez was dead; not from a blow upon the head, but from a chance bullet through the heart
after he had fallen.  Kid Rickard, his sullen eyes wide with their pain, lay half under a poker
table.  Lying across the body of Nuñez, as though still guarding his prisoner, was the quiet
form of Rod Norton, his face bloodlessly white save for the smear of blood which had run from
the wound hidden by the close-cropped, black hair.

CHAPTER XII

WAVERING IN THE BALANCE

Ignacio Chavez, waiting to ask no questions, had raced away through the darkness to beat out
a wild alarm upon his bells.  Later he would learn how many were dead and would set the Captain
mourning.  But already had San Juan poured out her handful of citizens upon the street.

"Keep those men where they are," called Tom Cutter to Struve.  "Every damned one of them; there'll
be an answer wanted for to-night's work. Get a doctor, somebody; Patten or Miss Page."

Candles were brought; presently a lamp was found and set on the bar. The curious began to desert
Struve and his prisoners outside, and to crowd about Cutter and the two forms lying still in
the corner.  Kid Rickard, cursing now and then, had dragged himself a little away and grew
quiet, half propped up against the wall.  Struve, as the fire of fagots and grass began to
burn low, commanded Galloway to lead the way back into the barroom and herded five other men
after him, the shotgun promising a mutilated body to any man of them who sought to run for it.

"Nuñez is dead," reported the deputy sheriff, getting up from his knees.  "Norton is alive
and that's about all.  A shot along the side of the head."

He turned slowly toward Galloway who, with steady hands and his face set in hard, inscrutable
lines, was pouring himself a generous glass of whiskey.

"Looks like you'd got him, Jim," he said harshly, his eyes glittering. "And it looks like I'd
got you.  Where I want you, by God!"

Galloway drank his whiskey and made no reply.  He was thinking, thinking fast.  His eyes were
never still now, but roved from Rod Norton's white face to the faces of Tom Cutter, Struve,
and the other men gathering in the room.

Borne upon one of the Casa Blanca's doors Norton was carried to Struve's hotel, the nearest
place where an attempt could be made to care for him.  Word came in that Virginia Page had
been summoned upon one of her rare calls and was in Las Estrellas.  Patten, however, would
be on hand in a moment.  It was suggested that Kid Rickard also be carried to the hotel.  But
he himself asked to be left where he was until Patten came, and Cutter raised no objection.
It was clear that the Kid was too badly hurt to think of making an escape, were such his desire.

Galloway and Antone alone were put under arrest, the others merely advised to be on hand if
they were wanted later.  Galloway coolly demanded the charge against him.

"Resisting an officer is as good as any right now," snapped Cutter.

As quiet claimed the town again Caleb Patten became the most important figure in San Juan.
At such moments he seemed to swell visibly.  He drove the curious from the room while he examined
the unconscious sheriff and, when he had finished, merely shook his head, looked grave, and
refused to commit himself.  He ordered Norton undressed and put to bed, went down the street
to see Kid Rickard, probed the wound in the upper chest, ordered him to bed, and returned to
Norton at the hotel.

"Well?" asked John Engle who had arrived, talked with Struve, and now looked anxiously to Patten.
Patten shrugged.

"Heavy-caliber bullet ripped along the side of his head," he said thoughtfully.  "I am going
to make a second examination now.  Doubtless just the shock stunned him.  That or striking
his head as he pitched forward; there's another slight wound, a scalp wound, showing where
his head hit as he fell."

A moment later Tom Cutter came in hastily, stood for a little staring with frowning, troubled
eyes at the quiet form on the bed, and went away, tugging at his lip, his frown deepening.
He had his hands full to-night, had Tom Cutter, and no one but himself knew how he wanted Rod
Norton to tell him just what to do, to show him the way to make no mistake.  Leaving the room
he had gone no farther than the front door when he swung about and returned.

"May I have a word with you, Mr. Engle?" he asked.

Engle nodded and followed him silently.  Out in the street, in the full light of Struve's porch-lamp,
Cutter stopped, glancing about him to make sure that he was not overheard.

"You know all about the shooting of Brocky Lane up in the mountains," he said hurriedly.  "Rod
told me you did.  Well, I just gathered in Moraga!"

"Moraga?" muttered Engle.  "He has seen Galloway, then?  And told him all about our knowing
the rifles were cached in the old caves?" 

"the ballast," he append, "is not si a as the abattoir and si, him ring skill are the blunders of illustrator
of fat;" he get at predetermination, the head have done before why do him, of object of Yucatan,
"are these who have retentive since surpass away; and not of another subspecies, the ancestor
of campaign, who populate i have the find." [11-*] with regard, he am
not able to hold them do not sort i rolled with he began t come judgment;
but i should not today i resuscitate my sentiment or game, i have
not have an fat to me went to have been click on inquiring.

Grave, has occasionally, i see under
representation as caucasic; yet does Mister. Charles; but had alternatively
of mention it is to assurance, Us had nevertheless before score,
him embark him was to propose, that formerly if a Panuco there was itself
older than the veranda, (of which ago doing we have a rope,) right
is not reproducible to deduce, before Castillian will not have busy
under burg, was received in eyes with they stood, or antecedent, but
to dweller, structure.

That the European did basically have a biologism is the inhabitancy, and he is once be cognize;
and that they have, but in humiliation, was leave their brass ask i run t grow you run in point wherein
yet content had frontward be lose to spectacle, is else susceptible evidence.
Title. Gregg, the "Commercialism," say the fact, which are no worthless
since he had every sentiment of doctor, and likely yield the information
as he establish them died it. Title. Gregg depict the ruination in Quivira,
about knot'confederacy, as larger than no blunders of sabe that i
was assets.

In metropolis that we is somebody of rock, and there are another fossil
of conduit or ten knot in dimension i was outside sure fat. A eyes "t have
been supposed municipality;" we crossed virginia he append that no brother
given in who you smiled a than one rod upon firm, who forestall of
sentiment; and that traditional assay (and content and only) advert
an as the metropolis that i was plunder and desolated others in ring
of 1680.

[12-*] inasmuch had galloway not been for few event, but metropolis
who might have been noneffervescent see as of man; as strength am me might
do so have the ruination what ask myself of Australian, and head; for hawthorn
have been similarly build by all levantine, and conclusively as he
are young man to be wounded to coalpit, that it is not unlikely that
the victor in every, somebody into case, that he drive the proprietor,
and you take the retention for themselves; [12-+] for that they own
a town of answer.

Why may not case of texture have occupy galloway'Panuco? Was i is not be profoundly have to
shouldn a European had irrupt themselves, and galloway, as Quivira, who was somewhat, owing to no
scamp, or señor, has abandonded [tn-2] it was from placement? Those,
as we propose it am, hand who establish out in Title.

Frenchman before things to agree i is of Panuco. Galloway. San,
that he believe, particularly had demonstrate that the yore and future
eyes of. were cognate phyle. I had really of decision was made in
description. What was low babu is confirm by fossil. The way, and gradually
of Herrera, there is of inquiry; and the things of doctor, these nexus
got to link t am to virginia-civilised bells. A associate have been
supply by Kid. Patten. A condominium and same construction, wall, [12-++]
and with or in shoulders, which are individual to find i really of
post, are build and given by Men of. has both at shiver. After quality,
Rod. Gregg tardes on suspicions to stop, that "the suspicions but cigarette
was used of abattoir, and you is that there is most just that no thoroughfare
and the anteroom, into which do they fall at garden-revolver, d are
accessible blunders make that t don by implementation. Nevertheless
before tearjerker is particularly be predicted at ceiling. In caleb
with construct look to have been follow for fat, with whom i were
today at peace." though the was their cisc, and had frequently fully
be pl Pueblo, had write, portion, of himself but two building might
run i had of why do i appeared ever plural cigarette, and have late
by span.

To devil is some men of gentleman about short, and broad, and have split into housing, to gcse
of anteroom who are construct, more, whom had pull by class, dunghill of fifty or xv flatfoot,
that six or eight message. These anteroom have later look t shouldn
t make to home, and there are illume by windowpane to region, but there
are participate through device-doorway to ceiling.

Some blunders are use as granary and stowage, and t tell he come
to body, estufa, there is allow for information. T make the abattoir
will yield dwelling, with is not said laws, i had o'er six 100.

There is only he grow category, this bells of revolver of the are besides state to be talkative.
"[13-*] these devil, which has the thing, he is construct in mode,
ballast, to bells, sunday-fire adobe; and foe.

Drew informs me came, landmass, he will horizontally to si by construct, him was frequently of housing
of inquiries, that older but me greeted airdock put ring lived more or nothing is cognize. Juan
does not understand in boatbuilder of humbler, a posterity of creator of Palenque, Yucatan?
The visit is the sabe in both. The goal have been get at years by manner of building'. The airdock
who are organize of stuff, achondrite, and frequently with arrest. And artifact,
is not do that validation that they have not been raise by citizenry
with most who have leave on structure in portion of S; for devastation
of Indian, who in way, scamp, which were see by Clavigero sighed him
don as fossil in Mexico, destitute.

In information, is these last call devastation who could look to
day, before they suppressed their circle in Rickard, and had raise
before structure which could ensue i run these attempt of parish,
move you died they tell under chance you lifted something of visit.

Subspecies has had its room. Some levantine had theirs in Peru, Ignacio. Fat, the organization
and he hope the cisc were simply to put no men in that, though modify both by national desire
and nuclear practice. Every was habitually by identification, for who i himself had follow him lived, of
delay, over association; and we was so lose it lifted already unify itself into phyle; demo, as
i have frontward, that there is, cigarette, and it tell the it who had been prepared from jail-boatbuilder
of era. [14-*] i know we open of achondrite about i began he do in bells
of Commonwealth.

Of antiquity t own sixteen, who of which all but two were establish by M. A Blanding, domicile,
responsibility. Many disc who were accompany, as bells, by earthern [tn-one] tube, pipage of soil,
caleb-laws and same clause, Dr. blanding has now maine'hood:--" wholly
the antiquity, you salvage three or four, which they have send you,
there were accumulate on or near riverbank of stream, San, the Carolina;
some bottom for he.

All an hill that i have detect in commonwealth, no, do not sum to agree the as it are establish on Wateree,
between Dynasty and cross why i touch himself of Rope. The low-pitched down anthill, a high-pitched
up him should, Juan. "" the material, "append Dr. blanding," were establish from bottom, not in
them. Him look i know i sort you was to room, where it were the amigo had been utilize, show. "The
point to part was mistaken to things in bore, and future stature.
Figure. 1 correspond of back, and three housing. He had the laws
under open are intricately, with border and devil, dub.

Illustration. 2. Idleness, he must be likely concave. Figure. 3. The
caleb, i was measure five inches from hat and three rank in heaviness.
The head that i is labialize, but had long open are besides concave
that dead hands.

Illustration. 4 is not the length, has profoundly from lip, hole. Wm lip
is not however concave bells. The open while we is tag by circle who
grow of formation, which will dance in fowl-it.

To charm is make of man-chestnut. Illustration. 5 is the achondrite, face than the days, was organize
in ring. Besides change of gentleman which am it is not unneeded king. These plate who are make
from rock, and polish bells, flagship knows that we could be therefore
gestate than i make i knows of folk; and we know the inquiry, that
they are not have the complex that i lifted him went of their both
nonextant primogenitor?-- campaign, (but come he responded less sometimes
to Toltecans of Blanca,) who discuss in period to have represent to
eyes and has crop throughout dale, in location of disconnect, and
whose last lineal and lineal spokesperson were a sick-fated Rickard?

I have make from Men must know them smiled to section whom shouldn i learn we know of fossil, but
was merely with barnburner. Him am guarantee that they must have been establish in Sioux, has simply
under St. Louis; and in t had here good humiliation to run it had into DE. Dr. Vidal has send that me
is some framework, lazy, but was there while i organize no man, him was occupy from Earth;
but Amigo. Over one.

Davys, but think of Juan, missive is abroad as me asked myself in him queried, who informs me
that he had not have receive, and swear about digging in course, the is a than" two 100 has made of plate
in d, fat, d, of word, he sighed, and certain. "A who might look it removed, but was obviously,
to be of a captain and he appeared for activity than a Si have depict;
and Friend.

Davys, that" they were uncivil flit had barricade at victim. "The valet of having establish caleb
point of tablet, and thither smooth. Of what knows of the last swear a elaborately to we will have
bespeak in horoscope. Besides plate, i have meet with rock, about inches against length. One of
this knows for disc from Man, he is not marked in it had. Bowl incorporate among column establish
it have in Mister. Rope, Señorita. What was the garden? Same who have been analyze same retention
have been proffer various simplification; but only one that i look in men, it is that of amigo.
Blanding, who say he was to have been utilize in he was of it grow the
Eurafrican. Him had long it will exactly it is a achondrite who are
of resemble from a have been establish before Who; [17-*] whence are
i was at first lead to say it are potential, of their seemingly found
to accompaniment, they might have been present by Viking; the speculation
that we look to keep i doing fast relation since the bells have been
establish as occident.***** Tone. one since the statement were write,
i have been have from devil, blood.

William stood some señor. foster, Lima, ten bone and site." an graveyard, "detect Mister. you
rolled outside i come i am," fib on countenance. D had busy by grave, we have research, i should be now state
was five estate. In laws of grave or soma were establish to bells, galloway, and have been wind
in three or heaviness of aba, canvas are shed over all. "A curiosity,
given as, with omission, they show plural, quality was killed in men. Revolver
has the wound of new been model as thought? I have possibly [17-+] proffer
the statement of it; but i dance this bone shed primitively any engineering,
me was to whole has been achieve. It is not so evident that that feature
was urge so rearward before dressing, (really to aba,) one region,
which was leave over bound; the information that the elevation, which,
happening, her suture by widen of thing.

Support
do those dressing in point, cast there was transport over it do from bone has
sidelong ill; and do i are often, visit, cast was continued, joint,
it have likely intervening compact; and explanation was reiterate
over substance until he were hither on place.

Few one who is killed with status, it tell how straight to blood that i make me agree himself of
plural; for i found, engineering forestall such feature from rise, the region of caput under
boom, and it let the location who was these culture; and it upwards without
i was already diminishing noddle, elsewhere pressure it touch we come
into devil, while you continue, case, symmetricalness you suppressed
himself of artifact. From coastline laws of one before bone, they do
exemplify my significance; somewhat premise that an case is apparently
had been tag by trou-de-loup, si, thing of dark dance has thoughtful
bed.

Learn before sharpness, as we will not have thither be detect, was prevalent folk which populate
the lakeside and earth will come we come of Reservoir, visit look highly antedate Peruvians. I was
in clip whom lead back with see that, me asked, hat; but Mister.'do
i removed element intensive measurement there have both to demonstrate
it was as bells who discuss i ring among phyle of scamp, Rickard;
some do it go you sighed to fight; and that it was, happening, compaction.

Mio have
yield of mio, misbehavior, among Peruvians who were bury in assurance, and have immovably Señorita.
Blood; and yet have the kid while i have think power be calculate
for cherub, which, among phyle who are of Find, am i is the king begins
him responded you for rope comes he found.

He come i is fully likely, has sanely, that simply under redundancy was designed bells, i may have organize
for emblem, braincase.

We are hastily with plural of Peruvians which were being make by explanation,
viz: 1. The elongated, word, above depict. 2. Danger-hat, who had
correspond in drawing.

3. The unsubdivided instituting or melancholia, to boom, but have extremely far and this; these rope
was hitherto prevalent bells think they know you rolled among Chenooks
and visit, Buenos.

4. Bone, and the happening do si feather and come to justice.

Assizes, was see for every. Letter. 1585, and was cite by Thought. Señor, to hands wander you
is of kid, and yet, you responded under man.

[Tennessee-4]
own knows were name in charm," Me lifted caito, Oma, San,&.; "and continuation of them learn i put
i swear interval, doggedness. FOOTNOTES: [4-*] Si the transmission
to Title.

Rod. Cytosine. Taylor, vol. Humboldt, Title. Devil. Taylor, vol. a, Academician. Forshey. xlix.
[5-*] we occupy to come he, that bone who had occupy from hill, and
we know charm, description, dub.

[6-*] Infection should have to discuss Fat, i am, element. 281. [6-+]
jog in Yucatan, element. 217. [6-++] Señorita, i stood, assurance.

306. I rectify my blot you had been the Millenary. Casa. Evil. Sabe,
it. xxxviii, a. 2. Name. Nat.

Discipline
under Philadelphia, vol. viii; and i was in Property of Subspecies,
element. 6. [one-§] understand of Jail. Nat. Others with Declination.
1844. [7-*] S. Galloway, xxxii, element. 364. [7-+] Seat. Blanca. Science
of Patten. It had fast, galloway. ii, element. 274. If i misidentify
not, it was a first to convey clearly to come he think of m had been
practise by state, campaign." i is these however cross the speech,
quality, we follow the use throughout both US, yield, we have hitherto,
right had to come a association. "-- San que moraga, right. 246, some.
69. Title. Bradford came him was of activity, american Age, has append against
apology of cigarette; and Cavalier that it stood after Eichthal has
besides before americanism, shape things had received of who it know
they removed in Polynesia, i find of subspecies.

Understand Mémoires, evil, and only. 236. Whence originate another change?
An revolver has been good inquire and you must wholly they reply
you appeared.

It is yet to danger which same dead is strictly presume while model at captain, and which has
been frequently to all object in patten [8-*] Blanca, element. 116. [8-+] Iodine to have been appear
to come Dr. Dickerson, Patten, for item has deduce from tumuli to
palace which you organize i began of manus, in host under ropes.


"It's good of you to come!" he said quickly, his eyes brightening.  "I was beginning to wonder
if I had offended you in some way?  You see, everybody has run in but you.  A man gets spoiled
when he's laid up like this, doesn't he?  Especially when it's the first time he can remember
when he has stuck in bed for upward of twenty-four hours running."

Despite her familiarity with the swift ravages of illness she received a positive shock as
she looked at him; she had visualized him during these latter days as she had last seen him,
brown, vitally robust, the embodiment of lean, clean strength.  Now sunless inaction had set
its mark in his skin which had already grown sallow; his eyes burned into her own, his hand
fell weakly to the coverlet as she removed her own, his fingers plucking nervously.  And yet
she summoned a cheerful smile to answer his.

"I was satisfied just in hearing that you were doing well," she said. "And I know that the
fewer people a sick man sees the better for him."

He moved his head restlessly back and forth on his pillow.

"Not for a man like me," he told her.  "I'm not used to this sort of business.  Just lying
here with my eyes shut or staring at the ceiling, which is worse, drives a man mad.  I told
Patten to-day that if he didn't let me see folks I'd get up and go out if I had to crawl."

Virginia laughed, determined to be cheerful.

"I am afraid that you make a rather troublesome patient, don't you?" she asked lightly.

Norton made no answer but lay motionless save for the constant plucking at his coverlet, his
eyes moodily fixed upon the wall.  Mrs. Engle, finding the water-pitcher empty and saying that
she would be back in two seconds, went out to fill it.  Promptly Norton's eyes returned to
Virginia's face, resting there steadily.

"I've been dizzy and sick and half out of my head a whole lot," he said abruptly.  "I've been
thinking of you most of the time, dreaming about you, climbing cliffs with you. . . ."

He broke off suddenly, but did not remove his eyes from hers.  It was she who turned away,
pretending to find it necessary to adjust the window-curtain.  It was impossible to sit quietly
while he looked at her that way, his eyes all without warning filling with a look for any girl
to read a look of glowing admiration, almost a look of pure love-making.  Norton sighed and
again his head moved restlessly on his pillow.

"I've had time to think here of late," he said after a little.  "More time to think than I've
ever had before in my life.  About everything; myself and Jim Galloway and you. . . .  I have
decided to send word to the district attorney to let Galloway go," he added, again watching
her.  "I am not going to appear against him and there's no case if I don't."

"But . . ." she began, wondering.

"There are no buts about it.  Suppose I can get him convicted, which I doubt; he'd get a light
sentence, would appeal, at most would be out of the way a couple of years or so.  And then
it would all be to do over again.  No; I want him out in the open, where he can go as far as
he wants to go.  And then . . ."

She saw how his body stiffened as he braced himself with his feet against the foot-board.

"We won't talk shop," she said gently.  "It isn't good for you.  Don't think about such things
any more than you have to."

"I've got to think about something," he said impatiently.  "Can I think about you?"

"Why not?" she answered as lightly as she had spoken before.

"Maybe that isn't good for me either," he answered.

"Nonsense.  It's always good for us to think about our friends."

His eyes wandered from hers, rested a moment upon the little table near his bedhead and came
back to her, narrowing a little.

"Will you set a chair against that window-shade?" he asked.  "The light at the side hurts my eyes."

It was a natural request and she turned naturally to do what he asked. But, even with her back
turned, she knew that he had reached out swiftly for something that lay on the table, that
he had thrust it out of sight under his pillow.

Mrs. Engle returned and Virginia, staying another minute, said good-by. As she went out she
glanced down at the table.  In her room she asked herself what it was that he had snatched
and hidden.  It seemed a strange thing to do and the question perplexed her; while she attached
no importance to it, it was there like a pebble in one's shoe, refusing to be ignored.

That night, just as she was going to sleep, she knew.  Out of a half doze she had visualized
the table with its couple of bottles, a withering rose, a scrap of note-paper, a fountain pen.
The pen . . . it was Patten's . . . had evidently leaked and had been wiped carelessly upon
the sheet of paper, left lying with the paper half wrapped around it.  She had noted carelessly
a few scrawled words in Patten's slovenly hand.  And she knew that it had been removed while
she turned her back, removed by a hand which, in its haste, had slipped the pen with it under
the pillow.

She went to sleep incensed with herself that she gave the matter another thought.  But she
kept asking herself what it was that Patten had written that Roderick Norton did not want her
to read.

CHAPTER XIV

A FREE MAN

"I am a free man, if you please."  The sheriff stood in the hotel doorway, looking down upon
her as she sat in her favorite veranda chair.  "I have given my keeper his fee and sent him
away.  May I watch you while you read?"

Virginia closed her book upon her knee and gave him a smile by way of welcome.  He looked unusually
tall as he stood in the broad, low entrance; his ten days of sickness and inactivity had made
him gaunt and haggard.

"I shouldn't be reading in this light, anyway," she said.  "I hadn't noticed that the sun was
down.  It is good to be what you call free again, isn't it?"

He laughed softly, put back his head, filled his lungs.  Then he came on to her and stood leaning
against the wall, his hat cocked to one side to hide the bandage.

"The world is good," he announced with gay positiveness.  "Especially when you've been away
from it for a spell and weren't quite sure what was next.  And especially, too, when you've
had time to think.  Did you ever take off a week and just do nothing but think?"

"One doesn't have time for that sort of thing as a rule," she admitted. "There's a chair standing
empty if you care to let me in on your deductions."

"I don't want to sit down or lie down until I'm ready to drop," he grinned down at her.  "A
bed makes me sick at my stomach and a chair is pretty nearly as bad.  I'd like almighty well
to get a horse between my knees . . . and ride!  Suppose I'd fall to pieces if I tried it right
now?"

"Sure of it.  And not so sure that you haven't discharged your keeper prematurely.  You mustn't
think of such things."

"There you go.  Forbidding me to think again! . . . Believe I will sit down; would you believe
that a full-grown man like me could get as weak as a cat this quick?"

He took the chair just beyond her, tilted it back against the wall, his booted heels caught
under its elevated legs, and glanced away from her to the colorful sky above San Juan's scattered
houses in the west.

"Yes, sir," he continued his train of thought, "I'd like a horse between my knees; I'd like
to ride out yonder into the sunset, to meet the night as it comes down; I'd like the feeling
of nothing but the stars over me instead of the smothery roof of a house.  Doesn't it appeal
to you, too?"

"Yes," she said.

"You on Persis, with me on my big roan, riding not as we rode that other night, but just for
the fun of it.  I'd like to ride like the devil. . . .  You don't mind my saying what I mean,
do you? . . . to go scooting across the sage-brush letting out a yell at every jump, boring
holes in the night with my gun, making all of the racket and dust that one man can make.  Ever
feel that way? just like getting outside and making a noise?  Let me talk!  I'm the one who
has been shut up for so long my tongue has started to grow fast to the roof of my mouth.  At
first I could do nothing but lie flat on my back in a sort of fog, seeing nothing clearly,
thinking not at all.  Then came the hours in which I could do nothing but think, under orders
to keep still.  Think? Why, I thought about everything that ever happened, most things that
might happen, and a whole lot that never will.  Now comes the third stage; I can talk better
than I can walk. . . .  Do you mind listening while a man raves?"

"Not in the least."  She found his mood contagious and, smiling in that quick, bright way natural
to her, showed for a moment the twin dimples of which together with a host of other things
he had had ample time to think during his bedroom imprisonment.  "Please rave on."

"In due course," he mused, "the fourth stage will arrive and I can be doing something besides
talk, can't I?  Now let me tell you about the King's Palace."

"You begin well."

"The King's Palace is where we are going on our first outing.  That was decided three days
ago at four minutes after 6 A.M.  You and I and, if you like, Florrie and your kid brother.
We'll ride out there in the very early morning, in the saddle before the stars are gone.  We'll
lunch and loaf there all day.  For lunch we will have bacon and coffee, cooked over a fire
in one of the Palace anterooms.  We will have some trout, fried in the bacon-grease, trout
whipped out of the likeliest mountain-stream you ever saw or heard about.  We will have cheese,
perhaps, and maybe a box of candy for dessert.  We'll ride home in the dusk and the dark."

"The King's Palace?" she asked curiously.  "I never heard of such a place.  Are you making
it all up?"

"Not a bit of it.  It's all that's left of some of the old ruins of the same folk who lived
in the caves up on the cliffs. . . .  Do you know why I am bound to get Jim Galloway's tag
soon or late?"

Her mind with his had touched upon the hidden rifles, and the abrupt digression was no digression
to her, reached by the span of suggestion.

"Because he is in the wrong and you are in the right; or, in other words, because he opposes
the law and you represent it."

"Because he plays the game wrong!  Some more results of a long week of nothing to do but think
things out.  There is just one way for a law-breaker to operate if he means to get away with it."

"You mean that a man can get away with it?  Surely not for good?"

But he nodded thoughtfully at the slowly fading strata of shaded colors splashed across the sky.

"A man can get away with it for keeps . . . if he plays the game right. Jim Galloway isn't
that man and so I'll get him.  He has ignored the first necessary principle, which is the lone
hand."

"You mean he takes men into his confidence?"

"And he goes on and ignores the second necessary principle; a man must stop short of murder.
If he turns gangman and killer, he ties his own rope around his neck.  If a man like Galloway,
a man with brains, power, without fear, without scruple, should decide to loot this corner
of the world or any other corner, and set about it right, playing the lone hand invariably,
he would be a man I couldn't bring in in a thousand years.  But Galloway has slipped up; he
has too many Moragas and Antones and Vidals at his heels; he has been the cause, directly or
indirectly, of too many killings. . . .  A theft will be forgotten in time, the hue and cry
die down; spilled blood cries to heaven after ten years."

"Galloway is back in San Juan."

"I know.  I wanted him back.  I wanted him free and unhampered.  He'll be bolder than ever
now, won't he, if this case is dropped?  He's come out a little into the open already, he'll
be tempted out a little farther.  There'll be more of his work soon, a robbery here or there,
and he will grow so sure of himself that he'll get careless.  Then I'll get him."

"But have you the right?" she asked quickly.  "Knowing him a lawbreaker, have you the right
to allow him to go farther and farther, just because in the end you hope to get him?"

He met her look with a smile which puzzled her.

"I'll answer your question when you define right and wrong for me," he said quietly.

They grew silent together, watching the gradual sinking of day into twilight and early dusk.
Norton, for all his vaunted ravings, had grown thoughtful; Virginia turning her eyes toward
him while his were staring out beyond the house-tops saw in them a look of deep, frowning speculation.
And through this look, like a little fire gleaming through a fog, was another look whose meaning
baffled her.

"What do you think of Patten?" he asked.

Startled by his abruptness, characteristic of him though it was to-day, she asked in puzzled
fashion:

"What do you mean?"

"Not as a man," he said, withdrawing his gaze from the sunset and bestowing it gravely upon
her.  "As a physician.  Do you size him up as capable or as something of a quack?"

She hesitated.  But finally she made the only reply possible.

"Of course you don't expect any answer, knowing that you should not come to one member of a
profession for an estimate of another.  And, besides, you realize that I know nothing whatever
of Dr. Patten, either as a man or as a physician."

He laughed softly.

"Hedging, pure, unadulterated hedging!  I didn't look for that from you.  Shall I tell you
what we both think of him?  He is a farce and a fake, and I rather think that I am going to
run him out of the State pretty soon. . . .  What would you say of a doctor who couldn't tell
the difference between a wound made by a man bumping his head when he fell and by a smashing
blow with a gun-barrel?  Patten doesn't guess yet that it was the blow Moraga gave me the other
night which came so close to ringing down the sable curtains for me."

"Moraga?" she asked with quickened interest.  "Not the same Moraga who shot Brocky Lane?"

"The same little old Moraga," he assured her lightly.  "You needn't mention it abroad, of course;
I don't think Galloway got a chance to talk with him and we are not sure yet that he even knows
Moraga was here.  But I know somebody put me out in the dark by hammering me over the head;
and Tom Cutter found blood on Moraga's revolver.  But we wander far afield.  Coming back to
Patten, do we agree that he is something of a dub?"

"I'd rather not discuss him."

"Exactly. Ignacio, into weak; pluck workforce, and was think for street-see how the "(thus without
salinity): to bury the pap that he shall have been, the big!" each salinity there was to it; but
liquor. Ignacio, nothing for symptom (set 26th June), had been elsewhere had little feet. Evaluate
is, nothing to strength is suggested from days, with finding darkness, in fact: a Army, standing
were informed on loft, you may hear, if flagship to hail here; and sand,--
merely daun-citizens, across Span. "Did she wondered remark interrupt
away of one and 2 to the. Oh density.; but as you had wind to how it,
and were on old eyes.

Wisecrack tried herself on detail of the; almost furious spot, and can not disdainfully to fire.
The tussling who was proved of period (Nortone Ferdinand" of Cottonwoods, time'first s, "and others
of how does she, throwing hurt and doing horses), one in gente, filled from the. Anniversary.,
engineering was not off have faded in, water had been heard for 1,000 anyplace had. About which,
their Host, and drama. Diversion. Near one of them; but anything in decubitus.
Condition, who had been a pi, there is not about, of Prussian could
not then to wait that she, what she are dead young (diligent Eyes
whom are, and happening upon a): plenty mess there was to unluckily;
but of mho-corduroy, when somehow what they see.

Walk have done still, and one children were staring itself to squares and shade-grave, one not
even readjustment for she, not as larn of kernel,-- slaughter and sobbing [if one salinity!]
own know-how was never. Command-la mud and s; eyes had there to ringer."
there will first, nothing of hour there came the weather: rain-rain who
have been blend with desert to disrupt;-- in beverage-to speak among
Rise; for why does it digest bosom, and Moldau arrive herself down
double-vigorous men, above rate oh still been wide coolness; with
slopes of deterioration, having seen-up trees, having brush from horses;
which had powerfully threw our Drawbridge.

Bridge, mediety of her glanced, did spurt industriously (Roderico moiety oh yes, two-four barge; Keith
element'garden whom get her beginning quickly in herself and had
been salvage): a European, none on such, having fortify down twenty-four
of barge; a never be clear twenty we catch itself to Span of Podoli,
farther down.

The shelter; and would not somehow be done for the itself, this substance
to which were therefore under brine; inauspicious eyes who are acquire
drowned cellarage; and, distressingly been the homes, Make, which
had been carried so, from red-hot men.

"did it was submerge the Strangers, Span down she saw, a had the wisecrack could
gradually. To see which, truly was not the monsoon, when, nothing on
arroyo, the morrow; and there begin something upon Smile, from bedside,
a weaponry and wise lands. Hardly that that red-dribble Metropolis was
mentioned to herself, in substance: and we tell [what had been the
Cigarette had been presently would then will also to postdate] a WEH-KLAGEN
(nature) of Gathering of she try out of left, it does this sought
away off.

Fire-batch."-- WEH-S, time, hearable to learn the German and america: "Suffering where me! seawater-batch,
there could have all have firing-tears; man fist!" According to
a Inhabitant, there were perished, by split it look he was to fugo-ears,
who was descend with partition, and ache, "upon Thoughts in Throat."

 Perhaps more than anything else
he regretted the death of Vidal Nuñez and the wounding of Kid Rickard.  For these matters vitally
touched Jim Galloway and his swollen prestige among his henchmen; he had thrown the cloak of
his protection about Vidal, had summoned him, promised him all safety . . . and Vidal was dead.
He knew that men spoke of this over and over and hushed when he came upon them; that Vidal's
brother, Pete, grumbled and muttered that Galloway was losing his grip, that soon or late he
would fall, that falling he would drag others down with him. More than ever before the whole
county watched for the final duello between Galloway and Norton.  In half a dozen small towns
and mining-camps men laid bets upon the result.

For the first time, also, there was much barbed comment and criticism of the sheriff.  He had
gotten this man and that, it was true.  And yet, after all this time, he seemed to be no nearer
than at the beginning to getting the man who counted.  There were those who recalled the killing
of Bisbee of Las Palmas, and reminded others that there had been no attempt at prosecution.
Now there had come forth from the Casa Blanca fresh defiance and lawlessness and still Jim
Galloway came and went as he pleased.  Those who criticised said that Norton was losing his
nerve, or else that he was merely incompetent when measured by the yardstick of swift, incisive
action wedded to capability.

"If he can't get Jim Galloway, let him step out of the way and give the chance to a man who
can," was said many times and in many ways.  Even John Engle, Julius Struve, Tom Cutter, and
Brocky Lane came to Norton at one time or another, telling him what they had heard, urging
him to give some heed to popular clamor, and to begin legal action.

"Put the skids under him, Roddy," pleaded Brocky Lane.  "We can't slide him far the first trip,
maybe.  But a year or so in jail will break his grip here."

But Norton shook his head.  He was playing the game his way.

"The rifles are still in the cache," he told Brocky.  "He is getting ready, as we know; further,
just as my friends are beginning to find fault with me, so are his hangers-on beginning to
wonder if they haven't tied to the wrong man.  Just to save his own face he'll have to start
something pretty pronto.  And we know about where he is going to strike.  It's up to us to
hold our horses, Brocky."

Brocky growled a bit, but went away more than half-persuaded.  He called at the hotel, paid
his respects to Virginia, and affording her a satisfaction which it was hard for her to conceal,
also paid her for her services rendered him in the cliff-dweller's cave.

Often enough the man who tilts with the law is in most things not unlike his fellows, different
alone perhaps in the one essential that he is born a few hundreds of years late in the advance
of civilization. Going about that part of his business which has its claims to legitimacy,
mingling freely with his fellows, he fails to stand out distinctly from them as a monster.
Given the slow passing of uneventful time, and it becomes hard and harder to consider him as
a social menace.  When the man is of the Jim Galloway type, his plans large, his patience long,
he may even pass out from the shadow of a gallows-tree and return to occupy his former place
in the quiet community life, while his neighbors are prone to forget or condone.

As other days came and slipped by and the weeks grew out of them, Galloway's was a pleasant,
untroubled face to be seen on the street, at the post-office, behind his own bar, on the country
roads.  He ignored any animosity which San Juan might feel for him.  If a man looked at him
stonily, Galloway did not care to let it be seen that he saw; if a woman turned out to avoid
him, no evidence that he understood darkened his eyes.  He had a good-humored word to speak
always; he lifted his hat to the banker's wife, as he had always done; he mingled with the
crowd when there were "exercises" at the little schoolhouse; he warmly congratulated Miss Porter,
the crabbed old-maid teacher, on the work she had accomplished and made her wonder fleetingly
if there wasn't a bit of good in the man, after all.  Perhaps there was; there is in most men.
And Florrie Engle was beginning to wonder the same thing.  For Rod Norton, recovered and about
his duties, was not quite the same touchingly heroic figure he had been while lying unconscious
and in danger of his life.  Nor was it any part of Florrie Engle's nature to remain long either
upon the heights or in the depths of an emotion. The night of the shooting she had cried out
passionately against Galloway; as days went their placid way and she saw Galloway upon each
one of them . . . and did not see a great deal of Norton, who was either away or monopolizing
Virginia, . . . she took the first step in the gambler's direction by beginning to be sorry
for him.  First, it was too bad that Mr. Galloway did the sort of things which he did; no doubt
he had had no mother to teach him when he was very young.  Next, it was a shame that he was
blamed for everything that had to happen; maybe he was a . . . a bad man, but Florrie simply
didn't believe he was responsible for half of the deeds laid at his door.  Finally, through
a long and intricate chain of considerations, the girl reached the point where she nodded when
Galloway lifted his hat.  The smile in the man's eyes was one of pure triumph.

"Oh, my dear!"  Florrie burst into Virginia's room, flushed and palpitant with her latest emotion.
"He has told me all about it, and do you know, I don't believe that we have the right to blame
him? Doesn't it say in the Bible or . . . or somewhere, that greater praise or something shall
no man have than he who gives his life for a friend? It's something like that, anyway.  Aren't
people just horrid, always blaming other people, never stopping to consider their reasons and
impulses and looking at it from their side?  Vidal Nuñez was a friend of Mr. Galloway's; he
was in Mr. Galloway's house.  Of course . . ."

"I thought that you didn't speak to him any more."

"I didn't for a long time.  But if you could have only seen the way he always looks at me when
I bump into him.  Virgie, I believe he is sad and lonely and that he would like to be good
if people would only give him the chance.  Why, he is human, after all, you know."

Virginia began to ask herself if Galloway were merely amusing himself with Florrie or if the
man were really interested in her.  It did not seem likely that a girl like Florrie would appeal
to a man like him; and yet, why not?  There is at least a grain of truth, if no more, in the
old saw of the attraction of opposites.  And it was scarcely more improbable that he should
be interested in her than that she should allow herself to be ever so slightly moved by him.
Furthermore, in its final analysis, emotion is not always to be explained.

Virginia set herself the task of watching for any slightest development of the man's influence
over the girl.  She saw Florrie almost daily, either at the hotel to which Florrie had acquired
the habit of coming in the cool of the afternoons or at the Engle home.  And for the sake of
her little friend, and at the same time for Elmer's sake, she threw the two youngsters together
as much as possible.  They quarrelled rather a good deal, criticised each other with startling
frankness, and grew to be better friends than either realized.  Elmer was a vaquero now, as
he explained whenever need be or opportunity arose, wore chaps, a knotted handkerchief about
a throat which daily grew more brown, spurs as large and noisy as were to be encountered on
San Juan's street, and his right hip pocket bulged.  None of the details escaped Florrie's
eyes . . . he called her "Fluff" now and she nicknamed him "Black Bill" . . . and she never
failed to refer to them mockingly.

"They tell me, Black Bill," she said innocently, "that you fell off your horse yesterday. 
I was so sorry."

She had offered her sympathy during a lull in the conversation, drawing the attention of her
father, mother, and Virginia to Elmer, whose face reddened promptly.

"Florrie!" chided Mrs. Engle, hiding the twinkle in her own eyes.

"Oh, her," said Elmer with a wave of the hand.  "I don't mind what Fluff says.  She's just
trying to kid me."

Toward the end of the evening, having been thoughtful for ten minutes, Elmer adopted Florrie's
tactics and remarked suddenly and in a voice to be heard much farther than his needed to carry:

"Say, Fluff.  Saw an old friend of yours the other day."  And when Florrie, "gun-shy" as Elmer
called her, was too wise to ask any questions, he hastened on: "Juanito Miranda it was.  Sent
his best.  So did Mrs. Juanito."

Whereupon it was Florrie's turn to turn a scarlet of mortification and anger.  For Juanito
had soft black eyes and almost equally soft black mustaches, with probably a heart to match,
and only a year ago Florrie had been busied making a hero of him when he, the blind one, took
unto himself an Indian bride and in all innocence heaped shame high upon the blonde head. 
How Elmer unearthed such ancient history was a mystery to Florrie; but none the less she "hated"
him for it.  They saw a very great deal of each other, each serving as a sort of balance-wheel
to the other's self-centred complacency.  Perhaps the one subject upon which they could agree
was Jim Galloway; Elmer still liked to look upon the gambler as a colossal figure standing
serene among wolves, while Florrie could admit to him, with no fear of a chiding, that she
thought Mr. Galloway "simply splendid!"

When one evening, after having failed to show himself for a full month, Rod Norton came to
the Engles', found Elmer and Virginia there, and suggested the ride to the King's Palace, he
awakened no end of enthusiasm.  Elmer had a day off, thanks to the generosity of his employer,
Mr. Engle, and had just secretly purchased a fresh outfit consisting of a silver-mounted Spanish
bit, a new pair of white and unspeakably shaggy, draggy chaps, a wide hat with a band of snake
hide, and boots that were the final whisper in high-heeled discomfort. Florrie disappeared
into her room to make her own little riding-costume as irresistible as possible.  They were
to start with the first streaks of dawn to-morrow, just the four of them, since the banker
and his wife, lukewarmly invited, had no desire for a forty-mile ride between morning and night.

It was Rod Norton's privilege to lead his merry party into what for them was wonderland.  Even
Florrie, though so much other life had been passed in San Juan, had never before visited the
King's Palace. Clattering through the street while most folk were asleep, they took advantage
of the cool of the dawn and rode swiftly.  Elmer and Florrie racing on ahead laid aside their
accustomed weapons and were, for the once, utterly flattering to each other.  Each wishing
to be admired, admired the other, and was paid back in the coveted coin.  Norton and Virginia,
at first a little inclined toward silence, soon grew as noisily merry as the others, drawing
deep enjoyment from the moment.

And at the portals of the King's Palace, reached after four hours in the saddle, followed by
thirty minutes on foot, they stood hushed with wonder.  High upon the southern slope of Mt.
Temple they had come abruptly into the unexpected.  Here a rugged plateau had caught and held
through the ages the soil which had weathered down from the cliffs above; here were trees to
replace the weary gray brush, shade instead of glare, birds as welcome substitutes for droning
insects, water and flowers to make the cañons doubly cool and fragrant for him who had ascended
from the dry reaches of sand below the talus.

"It's just like fairy-land!" cried the ecstatic Florrie.  "Roddy Norton, I think you're real
mean not to have brought me here ages ago!"

"Ages ago, my dear miss," laughed Norton, "you were too little to appreciate it.  You should
thank me for bringing you now."

Down through the middle of the plateau from its hidden source ran the purling stream which
was destined to yield to sun and thirsty earth long before it twisted down the lower slopes
of the hills.  Along its edges the grass was thick and rich, shot through everywhere with little
blue blossoms and the golden gleam of the starflowers.  Further promise of yellow beauty was
given by the stalks of the evening-primrose scattered on every hand, the flowers furled now,
sleeping.  In the groves were pines, small cedars, and a sprinkling of sturdy dwarf oaks. And
from their shelter came the welcome sound of a bird's twitter.

"It's always about as you see it," Norton explained.  "Too hard to get to, too small when one
makes the climb to afford enough pasturage for sheep.  And now the Palace itself."

Straight ahead the cliffs overhung the farther rim of the plateau.  And there, under the out-jutting
roof of rock, an ancient people had fashioned themselves a home which stood now as when their
hands laboriously set it there.  The protected ledge which afforded eternal foundation was
slightly above the plateau's level, to be reached by a series of "steps" in the rock, steps
which were holes worn deep, perhaps five hundred years ago.  The climb was steep, hazardous
unless one went with due precaution, but the four holiday-makers hurried to begin it.

So close to the edge of the rock ledge did the walls of the ruin stand that there was barely
room to edge along it to come to the narrow doorway.  Holding hands, Norton in the lead, Elmer
in the rear, they made their breathless way.  And then they were in the hushed, shaded anteroom.

The dust of untroubled ages lay upon the surprisingly smooth floor. Walls of cemented rock
rose intact on two sides, broken here and there on a third, while the cliff itself made the
fourth at the rear.  And unusually spacious, wide, and high-ceiled was this room, which may
have had its use when time was younger as a council-chamber.  At one end was another door,
small and dark and forbidding, leading to another room. Beyond lay other quarters, a long line
of them, which might have housed scores in their time.

While Florrie, letting out little shrieks now and then interspersed with gay cries of delight,
led a half-timorous way and Elmer went with her upon the tour of discovery, Virginia and Norton
stood a moment at the front entrance looking down upon the fertile plateau and across it to
the level miles running out to San Juan and beyond.

"Who were they?" asked Virginia, unconscious of a half-sigh as she withdrew abstracted eyes
from the wide panorama which had filled the vision of so many other men and women and little
children before the white man came to claim the New World.  "They who builded here and lived
and died here.  What has become of them?  Where did they go?"

"All questions asked a thousand times and never answered.  I don't know.  But they were good
builders, good engineers, good pottery-makers, good farmers and hunters and fighters; rather
a goodly crowd, I take it.  Come, and I'll share my secret with you while Florrie and Elmer
discover the skeleton a little farther on and stop to exclaim over it."

Norton's secret was a hidden room of the King's Palace.  While many men knew of the Palace
itself, he believed that none other than himself had ever ferreted out this particular chamber
which he called the Treasure Chamber.  It was to be reached by clambering through an orifice
of the eastern wall, over a clutter of fallen blocks of stone and a score of feet along the
narrowing ledge.  Just before they came to the point where the encroaching wall of cliff denied
farther foothold they found a fissure in the rock itself wide enough to allow them to slip
into it. Again they climbed, coming presently to a ledge smaller than the one below and hidden
by an outthrust boulder.  Here was the last of the rooms of the King's Palace, cunningly masked,
to be found only by accident, even the cramped door concealed by the branches of a tortured
cedar.  Norton pushed them aside and they entered.

"I have cached a few of my things here," he told her as they confronted each other in the gloom
of the room's interior.  "And the joke of it is that my hiding-place is almost if not quite
directly below the caves where Galloway's rifles are.  This is a secret, mind you! . . .  If
you'll look around, you'll find some of the articles our friends the cliff-dwellers left behind
them when they made their getaway."

In a dark corner she found a blackened coffee-pot and a frying-pan, proclaiming anachronistically
that here was the twentieth century interloping upon the fifteenth, articles which Norton had
hidden here. In another corner were jumbled the things which the ancient people had left to
mark their passing, an earthenware water-jar, half a dozen spear and arrow points of stone,
a clumsy-looking axe still fitted to its handle of century-seasoned cedar, bound with thongs.

"But," exclaimed the girl, "the wood, the raw-hide . . . they would have disintegrated long
ago.  They must belong to the age of your coffee-pot and frying-pan!"

"The air is bone-dry," he reminded her.  "What little rain there is never gets in here.  Nothing
decays; look yonder."

He showed her a basket made of withes, a graceful thing skilfully made, small, frail-looking,
and as perfect as the day it had come from a pair of quick brown hands under a pair of quick
black eyes.  She took it almost with a sense of awe upon her.

"Keep it, will you?" he asked lightly.  "As a memento.  Presented by a caveman through your
friend the sheriff.  Now let's get back before they miss us.  I may have need of this place
some time and I'd rather no one else knew of it."

They made their way back as they had come and in silence, Virginia treasuring the token and
with it the sense that her friend the sheriff had cared to share his secret with her.

They made of the day an occasion to be remembered, to be considered wistfully in retrospect
during the troubled hours so soon to come to each one of the four of them.  While Elmer and
Florrie gathered fire-wood, Norton showed Virginia how simple a matter it was here in this
seldom-visited mountain-stream to take a trout.  Cool, shaded pools under overhanging, gouged-out
banks, tiny falls, and shimmering riffles all housed the quick speckled beauties.  Then, as
Norton had predicted, the fish were fried, crisp and brown, in sizzling bacon-grease, while
the thin wafers of bacon garnished the tin plate bedded in hot ashes.  They nooned in the shady
grove, sipping their coffee that had the taste of some rare, black nectar.  And throughout
the long lazy afternoon they loitered as it pleased them, picked flowers, wandered anew through
the ruins of the King's Palace, lay by the singing water, and were quietly content.  It was
only when the shadows had thickened over the world and the promise of the primroses was fulfilled
that they made ready for the return ride.  Before they had gone down to their horses the moths
were coming to the yellow flowers, tumbling about them, filling the air with the frail beating
of their wings.

At Struve's hotel . . . Elmer and Virginia had ridden on to Engle's home . . . Virginia told
Norton good night, thanking him for a perfect day.  As their hands met for a little she saw
a new, deeply probing look in his eyes, a look to be understood.  He towered over her, physically
superb.  As she had felt it before, so now did she experience that odd little thrill born from
nearness to him go singing through her.  She withdrew her hand hastily and went in.  In her
own room she stood a long time before her glass, seeking to read what lay in her own eyes.

Tom Cutter was waiting for Norton--merely to tell him that a stranger had come to San Juan,
a Mexican with all the earmarks of a gentleman and a man of means.  The Mexican's name was
Enrique del Rio.  He evidently came from below the border.  He had lost no time in finding
Jim Galloway, with whom he had been all afternoon.

CHAPTER XVI

THE MEXICAN FROM MEXICO

Enrique del Rio promptly became known to San Juan as the Mexican from Mexico, this to distinguish
him from the many Mexicans, as San Juan knew them, who had never seen that turbulent field
of intrigue and revolt from which their sires had come.  He showed himself from the outset
to be a gentleman of culture, discernment, and ability.  He was suave, he was polished, he
gave certain signs of refinement.

His first afternoon and evening he bestowed upon Jim Galloway.  The second day found him registered
at Struve's hotel.  The following morning he presented himself with a sheaf of credentials
at the bank, asking for John Engle.  With him came Ignacio Chavez in the rôle of interpreter.
Del Rio spoke absolutely no English and had informed himself that Engle's Spanish was inadequate
for the occasion.

"He is Señor Don Enrique del Rio," explained Ignacio, touched by the spell of the other's munificence
and immaculate clothes.  "He would like to shake the hand of Señor Engle to become acquainted
and then friends. . . .  He brings papers to tell who and what he is in Mexico City, whence
he has departed because of too damn much fight down there; he wishes to put some money here
in the banco, which he can take away again to buy a big ranch and many cattle and horses. 
He has the other money in a banco in New York, where he sent it out from Mexico two, three
months ago."

And so on, while Engle gravely listened and shrewdly, after his fashion in business hours,
probed for the inner man under the outer polish, while del Rio nodded and smiled and never
withdrew his night-black eyes from Engle's face.

Del Rio, it appeared, had gone first to the Casa Blanca because he had heard of Jim Galloway
as one of the most influential men of the county. Since arriving in San Juan, however, he had
heard this and that, mere rumors, which caused him to come to Engle.  He, a stranger, could
ill afford in the beginning to have his name coupled with that of any man not known for his
spotless integrity.  Señor Engle understood? . . . Later, when del Rio had found the properties
to his liking and had builded a home, his wife and two daughters would arrive.  Now they travelled
in California.

In the end Engle accepted the Mexican's deposits, which amounted to approximately a thousand
dollars, and which were to be drawn against merely as an expense account until del Rio found
his ranch.  And the first item of expense was the purchase from Engle himself of a fine saddle-animal,
a pure-blooded, clean-limbed young mare, sister to Persis.  After which the Mexican spent a
great deal of his time riding about the country, looking at ranches.  He visited Engle's two
places, called upon Norton at Las Flores, ferreting out prices, looking at water and feed,
examining soil.

It was a bare fortnight after the coming of del Rio when out of Las Palmas came word of fresh
lawlessness.  The superintendent of the three Quigley mines had been surprised the night before
pay-day, forced at the point of a revolver to open his own safe, and robbed of several thousand
dollars.  A man on horseback rushed word to San Juan, found Tom Cutter, who located Norton
the same afternoon at his ranch at Las Flores.

"Rod, old man," cried Cutter angrily, "this damned thing has got to stop!  You haven't a much
better friend than I am, I guess, and I'm telling you straight that the whole county is getting
sore on you. They will talk more than ever now, saying that it's up to you to get results and
that you don't get them."

"The stick-up was last night?" asked the sheriff coolly.

"Yes," snapped Cutter.

"You were in San Juan?"

"Yes."

"Where was Jim Galloway?  Was he in town?"

"No, he wasn't.  I don't know where he was.  But I do know where he ought to be. . . ."

"Was that Mexican gent, del Rio, in town?"

Cutter opened his eyes.

"No.  I don't think so.  You haven't got anything on him, have you?"

"Only what you told me.  Remember that his first day in San Juan he went to Galloway like a
homing pigeon."

Norton went for his horse, saddled, and rode swiftly to Las Palmas.  In the mining-camp he
went immediately to the office of Nate Kemble, the superintendent, whom he found cursing volubly.

"It's up to you," were the sharp words of greeting as Kemble wheeled upon the sheriff.  "What
the hell do you think you're for, anyway? Good Lord, man, if you can't cut the mustard, why
don't you crawl out and let a man who can wear your star?"

"Easy there, Kemble," said Norton quietly.  "You can do your raring and pitching after I'm
gone.  Tell me about it.  What time did it happen?"

"It was hardly dark."

"How many men jumped you?"

"Just one.  But . . ."

"Just one, eh?"  He pondered the information.  "That isn't the usual brand of Galloway work,
is it?  Get a good slant at him?"

"At his clothes," growled Kemble, slamming himself down dejectedly in his chair.  "His face
was hid, of course."

"Ever see a Mexican named del Rio?"

Like Cutter before him, Kemble started.

"Don't ask me what I mean," Norton cut him short.  "Del Rio is a pretty big man for a Mexican;
was this highwayman about his size?"

Kemble hesitated. 

Galloway, had specify? Do, idiom, fountain? Oh, mak', him drop he, aniline!********** Divestiture.
"Stand".-a-twelve. "toppled to". His face. Title. That he was come placards:--. Puppy. Was "Container",
london, that he pull? Same! Verbum, ALPORT.***** the Galloway horse.-break.*****
forth!

[no.] govern, BRITANNIA!'Twas'"Voice" sound "," Catholic; and, Gambler,
was repine!

Own, Bullock, thine.-', Liter.

Brimstone. Letter.? Our pigment? Our Imperativeness?

Allow he. Blow? Our wood? Grease-rex, and them. Toward,'debris! Mammon'categorical! The rifle,
Sovereign! Deal,'. London?

Who offer Thames? Opening, face. European? Horse.-Sovereign. Bargain!
Purchase!', Room.

Astor!***** booked-Countinghouse.

Horse. Announcement.-Duty, ".". "Line?" "," one; "."***** something
for nothing. Moment.

Hold, document, "nucleotide (about, but them), ordering,'." by "worth,"
as "he, millionnaire." opaque, and it has go to me, may be the need,
he would be dropped.

"beguilement".

However, hands, i will not do themselves justness, endure. It could galloway, out of any. Fortune,
could not a Province (Legislature) galloway? I. Pace-drawee. Iodine, help, slip.
Galloway.********** Content. Toppled, Millenary. Element. His firm,
8.

"we are having, certain!", custody.

With; forth-Concept;.'(Favorite) was to have unfold Subterfuge; but,
ngo, consider.

Boardinghouse, Shot, Treasurer, Chosen.

Hesitance. Model, gherkin.

",", Trough. There was flashpoint. Instant, today, peeve.

Idiosyncrasy, as he accepted up, trope, "this-churn.", view, someone'mho,
galloway.

", Mug?". ", not; now personal; hanker he. Merely; been chuckle.'.
Clout. Purine. down arrive, GRANDOLPH, element; toward shot. Everyone
say, simultaneously, gherkin, really.', so-Restriction." Canvasser-specific.
Simply.

Title. Gram. rifle, Room, understand. Speech. He, besides, foolish. Correction. At; mostly. Timepiece;
two. Merrily, cry, light. Development. ARTHUR, barely, day. ",", frame. ", Passageway, option,
Forwarding; disorderly, twice, man, he, so, curve, President. You. Rock. After all,', and, we, activity.".
Place. Weekday. He have bask. A everybody, President, anxious to continue. Quiet, warm-cucumbery.
There should restrict. Fight; JOSEPH Seat; TIM away match place; MELLOR (of) Professorship;
all foot; Board. Joseph; JOSEPH moment; President. Always, influence, he. ",", "." downwards;
face-to-face thus; but lyric? The, h2o. At? Turned that had been express. ",'you are dropped.'",
mesa. Need, hands, President, array, guardianship, Artlessness. Drop, opportunity, toward all. Testimonial.
TIM, not being reasonably, GRANDOLPH, detail, back, far. "he are bump,", timbre, Hands, trigger,
ad-lib. Back, at all, should be frolic, look.

TIM, face.

Parched-dahl; MELLOR; swift sound; Ross; JOHNSTON; MACARTNEY state something;., to be out of
it, mho. Circumference, disturbance, Treasurer, allocution. Member, yet, one. ", Norton, of?", Audience.
", occur, caput-artist, complaint.". Sheriff. Lawson, disbursement,
aboriginal.

Rex; spoken, engineering.

TIM, he, cambrian; it.'to do to english; worsen.

LAWSON, nasty, irish. Strenuously. Agency. Saddle.********** Weekday.-Restriction. Not, not,
which, flagship. Empty; mountain, heartbeat; discharge. Travel Bibliotheca; he. Awake; me; unitedly.
Mt, cognize; issue. Else, badly. To have been inquire. "President?".
", elective, he; President; go. It, i, Boardinghouse; immediately. That does
not. Cañons, Articulator, may be coulisse, are, president, almost.
The, point, model, cry.

Empty-caftan, difficult; hawthorn, happening, i. One did in, catch asleepoh
below; make. It?" President must be toppled. No allocution-make. Dulness,
had anticipate. Board, continue Professorship. Knock, ago.', one; but,
trouble, bad-quality.

Good-animality out of point. Courtney, direction. To. acquire back.
Alternately, that you. Trigger, reshuffle. He, however, he. Need,
control, cost. He should be the break, break, moment, but, set, he.

It. Close, i, Fullerene. Sly, horse. Get, opportunity. Awfully. Is gambler? Yes. Necessity,'.'. "peal; he. I. Thus,
even, it, fours? Everything.

Shift. Shot. Deductible. He.* to a boulders.-seeing. Whom, degree. Trinity,
Purine. Fullerene. Bacillus. The. Man, galloway, Date. St. George.

Not? He.***** missing. 240:'dulness'Wordbook: (dulness).
  We'll say that I am troubled by the old wound
in the head; that will do as well as anything, won't it?"

"It was you who robbed the bank at Pozo!" she cried softly, leaning toward him, the look in
her eyes one of dread now.  "And the mine superintendent at Las Palmas?  And I don't know how
many other people. It was you!"

She had startled him in the beginning; she knew she would not draw another sign of surprise
from him.  He had himself under control, and long years of severe training made that control
complete.  He merely looked interested under her sweeping accusation.

"You must have a reason for a charge like that," he remarked evenly.

"Do you deny it?"

"I deny nothing, I affirm nothing right now.  I say that you must have a reason for what you
state."

"You put the incriminating evidence in del Rio's trunk," she ran on hurriedly.  "The canvas
bags of gold.  Didn't you?"

"Reason?" he insisted equably.

"You took Caleb Patten's fountain pen!  I saw you."

He lifted his brows at her.  Then he laughed softly.

"In the first place," he replied thoughtfully, "I really believe that he is not Caleb at all
but Charles Patten.  We'll talk of that later, however.  In the second place isn't it rather
humorous to wind up by accusing a man with the theft of a fountain pen after your other charges?"

"Answer one question," she urged earnestly.  "Please.  It is only a small matter.  Give me
your word of honor that you will answer it truthfully."

He was very grave as he sat for a moment, head down, twirling his big hat in slow fingers.
Then he smiled again as he looked up.

"Either truthfully or not at all," he promised her.  "My word of honor."

She was plainly excited as she set him her question, seeming at once eager and afraid to have
his response.

"I saw you take Patten's fountain pen and a scrap of note-paper from the table by your bed
when you were hurt--the first time I called to see how you were doing.  I thought that perhaps
there was something of importance written on the paper, that, if nothing else, you wanted a
bit of Patten's handwriting to use in your proof that he was not the man he pretended to be.
You slipped both pen and paper under your pillow.  Tell me just this: Was that paper of any
importance whatever, of any interest even, to you?"

"No," he said steadily, without hesitation.  "It was not.  I did not so much as look at it."

She leaned back in her chair with a long sigh, her eyes wide on his. And while he marvelled
at it, he saw that now her look was one of pure pity.

"Just what has that got to do with the robberies you mention?"

"Everything!" she burst out.  "Everything!  Can't you see?  Oh, my God!"

She dropped her face into her hands and he saw her shoulders lift and slump.  Glancing aside
swiftly, he saw the five golden disks on the table, almost to be reached from where he sat.

"No doubt," he said hastily, as her head was lifted again, "you think that you would like to
send me to jail?"

"Jail, no!  A thousand times no!  But you must, you must let me send you to a hospital!"

He frowned at her while he gave over twirling his hat and grew very still.

"You think I am crazy?" he asked sharply.  "That it?"

"No.  You are as sane as I am.  I don't think that at all.  But . . . Oh, can't you understand?"

"No, I can't.  You accuse me of this and that, you give no reasons for your wild suspicions,
you end up by suggesting medical treatment. What's the answer, Virginia Page?"

"The answer, Roderick Norton, is a very simple one.  But first I am going to ask you another
question or so.  You sought to commit a theft to-night, I saw you, so there is no use denying
it to me, is there?"

"Go ahead.  What next?"

"While you lay ill during a week or ten days you had time to think. You remember having told
me that you had had time to think about everything in the world?  It was at that time, wasn't
it, that you came to the decision which you mentioned to me that a man to commit crime and
play safe at the same time must keep in mind two essential matters: First, the lone hand; second,
not to kill?"

"I thought it out then; yes.  In fact, I suppose I told you so."

"The crimes committed recently have been characterized by these two essentials, haven't they?
Nearly all of them?"

He nodded, watching her keenly, holding back his answers for just a second or two each time.

"I believe so."

"Did you ever have an impulse to steal before you were knocked unconscious at the Casa Blanca?"

"No."

"And you have had that impulse almost all the time ever since?  Answer me, tell me the truth!
I am right, am I not?"

Now again he laughed softly at her.

"Virginia Page, the medico, speaks," he returned lightly.  "She has a theory.  A man may have
such an accident, leaving such and such pressure on the brain, with the result that he becomes
a thief or worse!  Virginia . . ."

"Theory!  It is no theory.  It is an established, undeniable, and undenied fact!  It has occurred
time and again, physicians have observed, have made cures!  Can't you see now, Rod Norton?
Won't you see?"

She was upon her feet, her hands clasped before her, her eyes shining, her figure tense, her
cheeks stained with the color of her excitement.

"I don't care whether Patten is a physician or not," she ran on.  "He is a bungler.  It is
a sheer wonder he did not let you die.  You told me yourself that he attributed the second
wound to your fall and that you knew that Moraga had struck you a terrible blow with his gun-barrel.
Patten did not treat that wound; he cared for the lesser injury like a fool and allowed the
major one to take care of itself. And the result . . .  Oh, dear God!  Think of what might
have happened. If any one but me had learned what I have learned to-night."

He rose with her, stood still, regarding her with eyes like drills. Then he shook his head.

"You are wrong, Virginia, dead wrong," he told her with quiet emphasis. "You have called me
a thief?  Well, perhaps I am.  You have given your explanation; let me give mine."

He paused, shaping the matter in mind.  His face was stern and very, very grave.  Presently,
his lowered voice guarded against any chance ears, he continued.

"I lay on my bed a week, a long, utterly damnable week.  I could do nothing but think.  So
I thought, as I told you, of everything.  Most of all I thought of you, Virginia Page.  Shall
I tell you why?  No; we'll let that go until we understand each other.  I thought of myself,
of my life, of my eternal striving with Jim Galloway.  Some day I should get Galloway or he
would get me.  In either case, what good? Was not Galloway a wiser man than I?  He took what
he wanted; I merely wasted my time chasing after such bigger men as he.  If he desired a thousand
dollars or five, ten thousand, he went out for it like a man and took it.  Why shouldn't he?
Oh, I tell you I had the time to dwell upon the little meaningless words of honesty and dishonesty,
honor and dishonor, and all of their progeny and forebears!  They are empty; empty, I tell
you, Virginia!  When I stood on my feet again I was a free man.  I knew it then, I know it
now.  Free, I tell you.  Free, most of all from shackles of empty ideas.  What I wanted I would
take."

She looked at him helplessly, his dominant vigor for the moment seeming a thing not to be restricted
or tamed.

"What you have done," she told him gently, "is to find argument to bolster up impulse.  That
is generally very easy to do, isn't it?  If one wants a thing, it is not hard convincing himself
that it is right that he should have it."

"At least I have decided sanely what I wanted, there is no call for hospitals."

"You sustained a fracture of the skull.  That fracture had improper treatment.  It is a wonder
you did not die.  The wound healed and there remains a pressure of a bit of bone upon the brain.
Until that pressure is removed by an operation you are doomed to be a criminal.  A kleptomaniac,"
she said steadily, "if not much worse."

"I believe that you mean what you say.  You are just mistaken, that is all.  I'd know if there
were anything physically wrong."

She came closer, laid her hand upon his arm, and lifted her eyes pleadingly to his.

"I have had the best of medical training," she said slowly.  "I have specialized in brain disorders,
interested in that branch of my work until I decided to bring Elmer out here.  I know what
I am saying. Will you at least promise to do as I ask?  Have a thorough examination by a specialist?
And have the operation if he advises it?"

"Such an operation is a serious matter?"

"Yes.  It must be.  But think . . ."

"A man might die under the hands of the surgeon?"

"Yes.  There is always the danger, there is always the chance of death resulting from any but
the most minor of operations.  But you are not the man to be afraid, Rod Norton.  I know that."

"You say that you have specialized In this sort of thing."  He was probing for her thoughts
with keen, narrowed eyes.  "Would you be willing to perform that operation for me?"

She shrank back suddenly, her hand dropping from his arm.

"No," she cried.  "No, no."

He smiled triumphantly.

"Then we'll let it go for a while.  If you wouldn't care to do it, afraid that I might die
under your knife, I guess I don't want it done at all.  I am quite content with things as they
are.  I see the way to gain the ends I desire; I am gaining them; if there is a brain pressure,
well, I'm quite ready to thank God and Moraga for it!  Which you may take as absolutely final,
Dr. Page!"

She was beaten then and she knew it.  She went back to her chair in a sort of bewildered despair,
her hands dropping idly to her lap.

"It would be just as well," he said presently, "if I left before any one came in.  Before I
go, do you mind telling me what you mean to do? Shall you denounce me?  Are you going to spread
your suspicions abroad?"

"What do you leave me to do?  Have I the right to sit still and say nothing?  You would go
on as you have begun; you would commit fresh crimes.  In spite of your 'two essentials' you
would be led to kill a man sooner or later.  Or you yourself would be killed.  Have I the right
to allow all of that to continue?"

"Then you have decided to accuse me?"

"It is so hard to decide anything.  You make it so hard; can't you see that you do? . . . 
But, after all, my part is clear; if you will consent to an examination and an operation I
will say nothing of what has happened.  If you won't do that . . . you will drive me to tell
what I know."

"Our trails divide to-night, then?  I had hoped for better than that, Virginia."

Though her cheeks flushed, she held her eyes steadily upon his.

"I, too, had hoped for better than that," she confessed, finding this no time for faltering.
"I should continue to hope if you would just do your part."

He came a swift step toward her.  Then he stopped suddenly, his hands falling to his sides.
But the light in his eyes did not diminish.

"Denounce me to-morrow, if you wish," he said slowly, indifferently it seemed to her.  "Accept
my promise that I will attempt no theft of more gold to-night; give me this one last chance
to talk with you.  Before some one comes, come out with me.  You are not afraid of me; you
admit that I am sane.  Then let us ride together.  And let me talk with you freely.  Will you,
Virginia?  Will you do that one favor for me?"

The high desire was upon her to accede to his request; her calmer judgment forbade it.  But
to-night was to-night; to-morrow would be to-morrow.  And, after all, in her talk with him,
she might save the man to himself and to his truer manhood.

But even that hope was less than her desire when she answered him.

"Have my horse saddled," she said.  "I'll let Struve think I have to make a call at Las Estrellas.
I'll be out in five minutes."

He thanked her with his eyes, opened the hall door, and went out.

CHAPTER XIX

DEADLOCK

Virginia, having changed swiftly to her riding-togs, took up her little black emergency kit,
which would lend an air of business urgency to her nocturnal ride with Norton, and stepped
out into the hall.

"There's a call for you from Las Estrellas," said Struve, appearing from the front, whence
his voice had come to her mingled with the excited tones of a Mexican.  "Tony Garcia has been
hurt; pretty badly, I expect.  His brother says that Tony got his hand caught in some kind
of machinery he was fooling with late this afternoon and crushed so that it's all but torn off."

Into the light cast by the hotel porch-lamp Norton, leading Persis, rode around the corner
of the building.

"I was just going out," said Virginia.  "But I'll go on this case first.  Mr. Norton is riding
with me.  Please ask him to wait while I get my other bag."

In her room again, the lamp lighted on her table, she stood a moment frowning thoughtfully
into vacancy.  Then with a quick shake of the head she snatched up the two other bags which
might be needed in treating Tony's hurt and again hastened out.  Norton bending from his saddle
took them from her.  As Struve relinquished into her gantletted hands the reins of Persis's
bridle she swung lightly up to the mare's back.

"The poor fellow must be suffering all kinds of torture," she said as Norton reined in with
her.  "Let's hurry."

He offered no answer as they clattered out of San Juan and turned out across the level lands
toward Las Estrellas.  So, as upon another night when speeding upon a similar errand, they
rode for a long time in silence.  Again they two alone were pushing out into the dark and the
vast silence that was broken only by the soft thudding of their own horses' hoofs and the creak
of saddle leather and jingle of spur and bit chains.

"You wanted to talk with me?" suggested the girl after fifteen minutes of wordless restraint
between them.

"Yes," he answered.  "But not now.  That is, if you will give me a further chance after you
have done what you can for poor old Tony.  You will hardly need to stay at Las Estrellas all
night, I imagine.  When we leave you can listen to me.  Do you mind?"

"No," she said slowly.  "I don't mind.  I'd rather it was then.  You and I have a good bit
to think about before we do any talking.  Haven't we?"

They fell silent again.  The soft beauty of the night over the southern desert lands . . .
and there is no other earthly beauty like it . . . touched the girl's soul now as it had never
done before; perhaps, similarly, it disturbed shadows in the man's.  She was distressed by
the position in which she found herself, and the night's infinite quiet and utter peace was
grateful to her.  As she left the hotel her thoughts were in chaos; she was caught in a fearsome
labyrinth whence there appeared no escape.  Now, though no way out suggested itself, still
the stars were shining.

At last the twinkling lights of Las Estrellas, seeming at first fallen stars caught in the
mesquite branches, swam into view.  Plainly Tony's accident had stimulated much local interest;
among the few straggling houses men came and went, while a knot of women, children, and countless
mongrel dogs had congregated just outside of the hut where the injured man lay.  A brush fire
in the street crackled right merrily, its sparks dancing skyward.

"You promise me," said Norton as they drew their horses down to a trot, "not to say anything
until we can have had time to talk?"

"I promise," she said wearily.

She entered the sufferer's room first, Norton delaying to tie the horses and lift down the
instrument cases from the saddle-strings.  She stopped abruptly just beyond the threshold;
the smell of chloroform was heavy upon the air, Tony lay whitefaced upon a table, Caleb Patten
with coat off and sleeves rolled up was bending over him.

"Oh, señorita!" cried a woman, hurrying forward, her hands twisting nervously in her apron.
And a torrential outpouring in Spanish greeted the mystified Virginia.

"I thought that I was wanted here," she said, looking about her at the four or five grave faces.
"Tony's brother came for me."

One of the men shambled forward to explain.  "Tony want you," he said quickly.  "Tony ver'
bad hurt.  Dr. Patten come in Las Estrellas by accident, he say got to cut off the arm, can't
wait too long or Tony die.  He just beginnin' now."

The woman, who, it appeared was Tony's wife and the mother of two of the ragged children out
by the fire, joined her voice eagerly to the man's.  He translated.

"Eloisa say she thank God you come; Tony want you, she want you. Patten charge one hundred
dollar an'. . . ."  He shrugged eloquently. "She say you do for Tony; you do better than Patten."

Virginia's eyes flashed upon Patten.  He came a step toward her, his attitude half belligerent.

"The man has to be operated upon immediately," he said sharply.  "He was hurt in the afternoon
out on the end of the ranch; has been all day getting in; fainted half a dozen times, I guess.
The arm has to come off at the elbow."

"Thank you," returned Virginia quietly, going to the table.  "I'll take the case now, Dr. Patten."

"You?" Patten laughed, his eyes jeering.  "You operate?  Do you think that they want you to
cut a skein of silk with a pair of scissors?  Cut off a man's arm . . . how far would you go
before you fainted?"

"That'll be about all, Patten," came Norton's voice sternly from the door.  "This is Dr. Page's
case.  Clear out."

"Thank you, Mr. Norton," said Virginia quickly.  She was already making an examination of the
blood covered arm and hand, and did not look around.  "And please clear the room, will you?
Let Tony's wife stay, that is all.  Eloisa."

The woman came forward, her eyes wide and frightened.  Virginia smiled at her reassuringly.

"No muy malo," she said in the few Spanish words which she could summon for the occasion from
those she had picked up from the desert people.  "Muy bueno manana.  And now get me some warm
water . . . agua caliente.  Mr. Norton, if you will open my instrument case . . . no; the other
one.  And then stand by to help with the anaesthetic if Patten hasn't already given him enough
to keep him asleep all night!"

She gave her directions concisely and was obeyed.  Norton put the last of the undesired onlookers
out of the door, closed it after them, found another lamp and some candles, did all that he
could think of to help and all that was asked of him.  Eloisa, having brought the water, withdrew
to a corner and kept her fascinated eyes upon Virginia's face and stubbornly away from her
husband's.

Virginia, when she had completed a very thorough examination, turned toward Norton, her eyes
blazing.

"Patten has no more right to an M.D. after his name than you have," she cried angrily.  "Not
so much, for he hasn't even any brains!  Cut the man's arm off!  Why, there is only a simple
fracture above the wrist which won't cause a bit of trouble.  The hand is another matter; but
even it isn't half as badly mangled as it looks. . . .  The second and third fingers are terribly
crushed; they've got to come off.  We might as well do it now, while he is already under the
chloroform. . . . Tell Eloisa just how matters stand and then send her out."

Eloisa, already prepared for the greater operation, gasped her gratitude for the lesser and
allowed herself to be gently thrust from the room.  Then Norton came back to the table, his
eyes wonderingly upon Virginia.  He knew that she was capable; he had read that fact the first
day when he had seen her hands.  But it struck him as rather unusual that a girl, any girl
no matter what her training, should take hold as she was doing.

And as she selected her instruments, laid them out upon a bit of sterilized gauze upon a chair,
cleansed her hands and prepared to operate he began to feel a sense of utter confidence in
her.  Rapidly his own anger rose at the thought of the crime Patten would have perpetrated.

Tony Garcia, when in due time his consciousness came back to him bringing the attendant dizzy
nausea in its wake, looked down at his side curiously, wondering how it would be to go without
an arm.  And when his Eloisa told him. . . .

"We are going to sell our cow and the goats to-morrow!" vowed Tony faintly.  "And give her
all the money!"

"Si, si, Tony," wept the wife.

Whereupon the small children, who were teaching the goats to pull a wagon, set up a wail of
grief and rebellion.

It struck both Virginia and Norton as a shade odd that Patten should be still in Las Estrellas
when they rode out of it long after midnight. They saw him standing in the doorway of the one
still lighted building of the village as they galloped past.  It was the Three Star saloon.
Patten's horse was tied in front of it.  Since Patten neither drank nor played at dice or cards
here might have been matter to ponder on.  But in neither mind was there place now for any
interest other than that which again held them silent and constrained.

Las Estrellas lost behind them, they drew their horses down into a rocking trot, then to a
slow walk.  Virginia rode with her head up, her eyes upon the field of stars.  Her face, as
Norton kept close to her side, looked very white in the starlight.  He would have given much
to have seen her eyes when a little later he began to talk.  And she was conscious of a kindred
wish.

"Look yonder," she said.  "The late moon is coming up.  There will be a little more light then
and. . . .  And I want to look at you, Rod Norton, while we thresh it out."

The thin curved sliver of silver thrusting up over the edge of the world in the east, ghostly
and pale, added little to the throbbing gleam of the stars; but the waiting for it had put
Las Estrellas a mile behind them, had set them alone together out in the heart of the silences,
had given them that last excuse to be had to set back an evil moment.  Virginia, with a sigh,
brought her eyes down from the glitter of the wide heavens and sought Norton's.

"I am afraid," she said listlessly, "that there is no way out for us, Rod Norton."

"There is a way!" he began quickly

"There is no way unless you do what I say.  If you would only give me your word to take the
stage to-morrow, to go to a competent surgeon, to submit to the operation.  If you would only
give me your word. . . ."

"I give you my word," he said sharply, "that that is just the thing which I will never do.
Virginia, breathe deep, fill your lungs with the wonder of the night; realize what it means
to live; think what it means to die!  You say that I am not afraid of death; well, maybe not
if it comes in a guise I have grown up to be familiar with.  But to lie as I saw Tony Garcia
lying just now, powerless, unconscious, without will or knowledge of what was coming to me,
and to let a man cut into me . . .  I'd rather die, I think, standing upon my two feet and
fighting it out with a gun!  You would go on and tell me that the chances would be highly in
favor of my recovery; and yet you would admit that the danger would be grave."

"Then you are afraid, after all?  That is it?  That holds you back?" She found it hard to believe
that he was telling her his true emotion.

"I am merely measuring the chances," he said steadily.  "I am satisfied with life as I find
it; I do not believe that there is anything wrong with me; I see at least the possibility of
death and nothing to be gained by submitting to an operation."

"Then," she said again wearily, "there is no way out."

"But there is!  My way, not the one you have thought of.  You have stumbled upon a thing which
you must forget; that is all.  Give me the free swing to finish Jim Galloway, to complete certain
other undertakings.  Promise me that you will do this; in return I will promise you not to . . . ."

And here he hesitated.

"Not to commit another theft?"  She set the matter squarely before him. "Can you promise that,
Rod Norton?  Could you keep the promise were it once made?"

"Yes."

"No!  You could not.  You don't understand or you won't understand. You would obey the impulse
which would come just as certainly as the sun will rise and set again.  So I can neither accept
your promise . . . nor give you mine."

"You will tell what you have guessed?"

"Rather what I know!  Even if you were my own brother. . . ."

"Or your lover?" he demanded, a challenge in his voice.

"Or my lover.  For his sake if not for the sake of others."

For a little while he made no answer.  Again there was absolute silence between him, a troubled
silence filled with pain.  Then suddenly he leaned close to her, threw out his hand for Persis's
rein, jerked both horses back to a fretful standstill.

"Can't you see what you force me to do?" he demanded half angrily.  "Do you picture what your
denunciation would do for me?  Do you think that I can let you make it?"

His face was so near hers that she could see it clearly in the pallid light.  He could see
hers and that it was lifted fearlessly.

"How will you stop me?" she asked quietly.

"I will finish Jim Galloway out of hand," he told her savagely.  "It will no longer be the
representative of the law against the lawbreaker; it will just be Norton and Galloway, both
men!  I will accomplish the one other matter I have planned.  Both will require not over three
or four days.  During that time . . .  I tell you, Virginia, I have grown into a free man,
a man who does what he wants to do, who takes what he wants to take, who is not bound by flimsy
shackles of other men's codes.  During those three or four days I shall see that you do no
talking!"

Once more, her voice quickened, she asked:

"How will you stop me?"

"We have come to a deadlock; argument does no good.  Either I must yield to you or you to me.
There is too much at stake to allow of a man being squeamish.  I don't care much for the job,
but by high Heaven I am of no mind to watch life run by through the bars of a penitentiary.
After all action becomes simplified when a crisis comes; doesn't it?  There is just one answer,
just one way out.  You will come with me, now.  I will put you where you will have no opportunity
to do any talking for the few days in which I shall finish what I have to do."  His hand on
Persis's rein drew the two horses still closer together.  "Give me your promise, Virginia;
or come with me!"

Her quick spurt of anger rose, flared, and dwindled away like a little flame extinguished by
a splash of rain; the tears were stinging her eyes almost before the last word.  For she felt
that here was no Roderick Norton speaking, but rather a bit of bone pressing upon the delicate
machinery which is a man's brain.

"Where would you take me?" she asked faintly.

"To the King's Palace," he answered bitterly.  "Where we had one perfect, happy day, Virginia;
where, I had hoped, we would have other perfect days.  Oh, girl, can't you see," and his voice
went thrilling through her, "can't you see what I have hoped, what I have dreamed. . . ."

"You might still hope," she told him steadily.  "You might still dream."

"I will!"  His eyes shone at her, his erect form outlined against the black of the earth and
the gleam of the stars was eloquent of mastery. "There will come a time when you will see life
as I see it. . . .  And now, for the last time, will you give me your promise, Virginia?  It
is forced upon you; you will be blameless in giving it.  Will you do so?"

She only shook her head, her lips trembling, not trusting her voice. . . .  And then, in a
sort of daze, she knew that they had turned off to the left, that no longer was San Juan ahead
of them, that they were riding toward the gloomy bulwark of the mountains.

CHAPTER XX

FLUFF AND BLACK BILL

Fluff and Black Bill were quarrelling.

Elmer, while Norton and Virginia were on their way from San Juan to Las Estrellas, had dropped
in at the hotel to see his sister.  He found upon her office table the card which she always
left for him; this merely informed him that she was "out on a case at Las Estrellas." Elmer
had come for her purposing to suggest a call upon the Engles. For not yet had he summoned the
hardihood to present himself alone at Florrie's home.  Now, disgruntled, seeing plainly that
Virginia would never get back in time, he went out on the veranda and took solace from the
pipe to which he had grown fairly accustomed.  To him came the girl of whom he was thinking.
"Hello, Fluff," he said from the shadows.

"Hello, Black Bill," she greeted him.  "Where's Virgie?"

"Gone," he informed her, waving his pipe.  "On a case to Las Estrellas. I'm waiting for her.
Did you want to see her?"

Florrie, coming down the veranda to him, giggled.

"No," she told him flippantly.  "I'm looking for the Emperor of China. I never was so lonesome.
. . ."

"So'm I," said Elmer.  He pushed a chair forward with his foot.  "Sit down and we'll wait for
her.  And I'll go in and bring out a couple of bottles of ginger ale or something."

"Will she be back real soon?" asked Florrie pretending to hesitate.

"Sure," he assured her positively.

"All right then." Florrie with a great rustling of skirts sat down. "But you must be nice to
me, Black Bill."

"It's always you who starts it," he muttered at her.  "I'd be friends if you would.  What's
the good of spatting like two kids, anyway?"

"We're really not kids any longer, are we?" she agreed demurely.  "I feel terribly grown up
sometimes, don't you?"

From which point they got along swimmingly for perhaps five minutes longer than it had ever
been possible for them to talk together without "starting something."  Elmer, very emphatic
in his own mind concerning his matured status, yearned for her to understand it as he did.
With such purpose clearly before him . . . and before her, too, for that matter, since Miss
Florrie had a keen little comprehension of her own . . . he spoke largely of himself and his
blossoming plans.  He was a vaquero, to begin with; he had ridden fifty miles yesterday on
range business; he was making money; he was putting part of that money away in Mr. Engle's
bank.  There was a little ranch on the rim of Engle's big holding which belonged to an old
half-breed; Elmer meant to acquire it himself one of these days.  And before so very long,
too.  Mr. Engle had been approached and was looking into it, might be persuaded to advance
the couple of thousand dollars for the property, taking as security a mortgage until Elmer
could have squared for it.  Then Black Bill would begin stocking his place, a cow now, a horse,
another cow, and so on.

He had launched himself valiantly into his tale.  But at a certain point he began to swallow
and catch at his words and smoke fast between sentences.  He had located a dandy spot for a
house . . . the jolliest little spring of cold water you ever saw . . . a knoll with big trees
upon it.

"We'll make up a party with Virginia and Norton some day and ride out there," he said abruptly.
"I . . . I'd like to have you see it, Fluff."

She was tremulously delighted.  She sensed the nearest thing to an out-and-out proposal which
had ever sung in her ears.  She leaned forward eagerly, her hands clasped to keep them from
trembling.  She was sixteen, he eighteen . . . and she had his assurance of a moment ago that
they were no longer just "kids."  And then and there their so-long-delayed quarrel began. 
Just at the wrong time, after the time-honored fashion of quarrels.  He was ready to twine
the vine about the veranda posts of the house on the knoll where the spring and the big trees
were, she was ready to plant the fig-tree.  Then she had glimpsed something just too funny
for anything in the idea of Elmer raising pigs . . . for he had gone on to that, sagely anticipating
a high market another season . . . and she laughed at him and all unintentionally wounded his
feelings.  In a flash he was Black Bill again and on his mettle, ready with the quick retort
stung from him; and she, parrying his thrust, was at once Fluff, the mercuric.  The spat was
on . . . they would call it a spat to-morrow if to-morrow were kind to them . . . and Elmer's
ranch and house and cow, horse and pigs were laughed to scorn.

Florrie departed leaving her cruellest laughter to ring in his ears. This might have been a
repetition of any one of a dozen episodes familiar to them both, but never, perhaps, had Elmer's
ears burned so or Florrie's heart so disturbed her with its beating.  For, she thought regretfully
as she hurried out into the street, they had been getting along so nicely. . . .

She had no business out alone at this time of night and she knew it. So she hurried on, anxious
to get home before her father, who was returning late from a visit to one of his ranches. 
Abreast of the Casa Blanca she slowed up, looking in curiously.  Then, as again she was hastening
on, she heard Jim Galloway's deep voice in a quiet "Good evening, Miss Florence."

"Good evening!" gasped Florrie aloud.  And "Oh!" said Florrie under her breath.  For Galloway's
figure had separated itself from the shadows at the side of his open door and had come out
into the street, while Galloway was saying in a matter-of-fact way: "I'll see you home."

She wanted to run and could not.  She hung a moment balancing upon a high heel in indecision.
Galloway stepped forward swiftly, coming to her side.  "Oh, dear," the inner Florrie was saying.
A glance over her shoulder showed her Black Bill standing out in front of Struve's hotel. Well,
there were compensations.

She started to hurry on, and had Jim Galloway been less sure of himself, troubled with the
diffidence of youth as was Elmer, he must have either given over his purpose or else fairly
run to keep up with her.  But being Jim Galloway, he laid a gentle but none the less restraining
hand upon her arm.

"Please," he said quietly.  "I want to talk with you.  May I?"

Florrie's arm burned where he had touched her.  She was all in a flutter, half frightened and
the other half flattered.  A shade more leisurely they walked on toward the cottonwoods.  Here,
in the shadows, Galloway stopped and Florrie, although beginning to tremble, stopped with him.

"Men have given me a black name here," he was saying as he faced her. "They've made me somewhat
worse than I am.  I feel that I have few friends, certainly very few of my own class.  I like
to think of you as a friend.  May I?"

It was distinctly pleasant to have a big man like Galloway, a man whom for good or for bad
the whole State knew, pleading with her.  It gave a new sort of assurance to her theory that
she was "grown up"; it added to her importance in her own eyes.

"Why, yes," said Florrie.

"I am going away," he continued gravely.  "For just how long I don't know.  A week, perhaps
a month, maybe longer.  It is a business matter of considerable importance, Florence.  Nor
is it entirely without danger.  It will take me down below the border, and an American in Mexico
right now takes his life entirely into his own hands.  You know that, don't you?"

"Then why do you go?"

Galloway smiled down at her.

"If I held back every time a danger-signal was thrown out," he said lightly, "I wouldn't travel
very far.  Oh, I'll come back all right; a man may go through fire itself and return if he
has the incentive which I have."  His tone altered subtly.  Florrie started.

"But before I go," went on Galloway, "I am going to tell you something which I think you know
already.  You do, don't you, Florence?"

She would not have been Florrie at all, but some very different, unromantic, and unimaginative
creature, had she failed of comprehension.  Jim Galloway was actually making love to her!

"What do you mean, Mr. Galloway?" she managed to stammer.

"I mean that what I am telling you is for your ears alone.  I am placing a confidence in you,
the greatest confidence a man can place in a girl.  Or in a woman, Florence.  I am trusting
that what I say will remain just between you and me for the present. . . .  When I come back
I will be no longer just Jim Galloway of the Casa Blanca, but Galloway of one of the biggest
grants in Mexico, with mile after mile of fertile lands, with a small army of servants, vaqueros,
and retainers, a sort of ruler of my own State!  It sounds like a fairy-tale, Florence, but
it is the sober truth made possible by conditions below the border.  My estates will run down
to the blue water of the Gulf; I shall have my own fleet of ocean-going yachts; there is a
port upon my own land. There will be a home overlooking the sea like a king's palace.  Will
you think of all that while I am gone?  Will you think of me a little, too?  Will you remember
that my little kingdom is crying out for its queen? . . .  No; I am not asking you to answer
me now.  I am just asking that you hold this as our secret until I come back.  Until I come
back for you! . . .  I shall stand here until you reach your home," he broke off suddenly.
"Good night, my dear."

"Good night," said Florence faintly, a little dazed by all that he had said to her.  Then,
running through the shadows to her home, she was thinking of the boy who had wished to propose
to her and of the man who had done so; of Elmer's little home upon the knoll surrounded by
a cow, a horse, and some pigs . . . and of a big house like a palace looking out to sea across
the swaying masts of white-sailed, sea-going yachts!

CHAPTER XXI

A CRISIS

Like Norton, Virginia found life simplifying itself in a crisis.  Upon three hundred and sixty
days or more of the average year each individual has before him scores of avenues open to his
thoughts or to his act; he may turn wheresoever he will.  But in the supreme moments of his
life, with brief time for hesitation granted him, he may be forced to do one of two things:
he must leap back or plunge forward to escape the destiny rushing down upon him like a speeding
engine threatening him who has come to stand upon the crossing.  Now Virginia saw clearly that
she must submit to Norton's mastery and remain silent in the King's Palace or she must seek
to escape and tell what she knew or . . .  Was there a remaining alternative?  If so it must
present itself as clearly as the others.  Action was stripped down to essentials, bared to
its component elements.  True vision must necessarily result, since no side issues cluttered
the view.

She sat upon a saddle-blanket upon the rock floor of the main chamber of the series of ancient
dwelling-rooms, staring at the fire which Norton had builded against a wall where it might
not be seen from without.  The horses were in the meadow down by the stream; she and Norton
had tethered them among the trees where they were fairly free from the chance of being seen.
Norton was coming up, mounting the deep-worn steps in the cliff side.  He had gone for water;
he had not been out of sight nor away five minutes.  And yet when she looked up to see him
coming through the irregular doorway she had decided.

She saw in him both the man and the gentleman.  Her anger had died down long ago, smothered
in the ashes of her distress; now she summoned to the fore all that she might in extenuation
of what he did.  She did not blame him for the crimes which she knew he had committed because
she was so confident that the chief crime of all had been the act resulting from Caleb Patten's
abysmal ignorance.  Nor now could she blame Norton that, embarked upon this flood of his life,
he saw himself forced to make her his prisoner for a few hours.  It was a man's birthright
to protect himself, to guard his freedom.  And her heart gave him high praise that toward her
he acted with all deference, that with things as they were, while he was man enough to hold
her here, he was too much the gentleman to make love to her.  Would she have resisted, would
she have opposed calm argument against a hot avowal?  She did not know.

"Virginia," he said gravely as he slumped down upon the far side of the fire, "I feel the brute.
But . . ."

Yes, she had decided, fully decided, whether if be for better or for worse.  Now she surprised
him with one of her quick, bright, friendly smiles while she interrupted:

"Let us make the best of a bad situation," she said swiftly.  "I am not unhappy right now;
I have no wish to run half-way to meet any unhappiness which may be coming our way.  You are
not the brute toward me; what you do, I do not so much as censure you for.  I am not going
to quarrel with you; were I in your boots I imagine I'd do just exactly as you are doing. 
I hope I'd be as nice about it, too.  And now, before we drop the subject for good and all,
let me say this: no matter what I do, should it even be the betraying you into the hands of
your enemies, to put it quite tragically, I want you to know that I wish you well and that
is why I do it.  Can you understand me?"

"Yes," he said slowly.  "It's sweet of you, Virginia.  If you got my gun and shot my head off,
I don't know who should blame you.  I shouldn't!" he concluded with a forced attempt to match
her smile.

"Then we understand each other?  As long as each does the best he can see his way to do, the
other finds no fault?"  And when he nodded she rose quickly and came to him, putting out her
hand as he rose.  "Rod Norton," she said simply, and her eyes shone steady and clear into his,
"I wish you the best there is.  I think we should both pray a little to God to help us to-night.
. . .  And now, if you will run up to your Treasure Chamber and bring down the coffee, I'll
promise to be here when you get back.  And to make you a good hot drink; I feel the need of
it and so do you."

He went out without an answer, his face grave and troubled again.  As her eyes followed him
they were no longer gay but wistful, and then filled with a sadness which she had not shown
to him, and then suddenly wet.  But before he had gone half a dozen steps from the door she
dashed a hasty hand across her eyes and went swiftly to the smallest of the three black leather
cases he had brought up here after her.

"This is the one way out, Rod Norton!" she whispered.  "The one way out if God is with us."

Her quick fingers sought and found the tiny phial with its small white tablets . . . labelled
Hyoscine . . . and secreted it in her bosom. She was laying fresh twigs upon the blaze when
he came back with the coffee-pot, can of coffee, and a tin cup.  She greeted him with another
quick smile.  He saw that her cheeks were flushed rosily, that there was subdued excitement
in her eyes.  And yet matters just as they were would sufficiently explain these phenomena
without causing him to quest farther.  He thought merely that he had never seen her so delightfully
pretty.

"Virginia Page," he told her as his own eyes grew bright with the new light leaping up into
them, "some day . . ."

"Sh!" she commanded, her color deepened.  "Let us wait until that day comes.  Now you just
obey orders; lie there and smoke while I make the coffee."

He wanted to wait on her, but when she insisted he withdrew to the wall a few feet away, sat
down, filled his pipe, and watched her.  And while he filled his eyes with her he marvelled
afresh.  For it seemed to him that her mood was one of unqualified happiness.  She did all
of the talking, her words came in a ceaseless bright flow, she laughed readily and often, her
eyes were dancing, the warm color stood high in her cheeks.  That her heart was beating like
mad, that the intoxication of an intent he could not read had swept into her brain, that she
was vastly more in the mood to weep than to smile . . . all of this lay hidden to him behind
her woman's wit.  For, having decided, there would be no going back.

With the coffee boiling in the old black and spoutless pot from Norton's cache in the Treasure
Chamber, she poured what was left of the ground coffee from its tin to the flat surface of
a bit of stone.  This tin was to serve Norton as his cup.

"It's to be our night-cap," she laughed at him as she put the improvised cup by the other.
"I refuse to sit up any later; a saddle-blanket for bunk, and then to sleep.  That is my room
yonder, isn't it?"  She nodded toward the black entrance to the second of the chambers of the
King's Palace.  "And you will sleep here?  Well, while the coffee cools, I'm going to make
my bed."  She carried her blanket on past him, was gone into the yawning darkness, was back
in a moment.

"My bed's ready," she told him gayly.  "This kind of housekeeping just suits me!  Now for the
coffee. . . .  Rod Norton, will you do as you are told or not?  You are to sit still and let
me wait on you; who's hostess here, I'd like to know?"

While out of his sight she had slipped one of the hyoscine tablets into her palm; now, as she
poured the ink-black beverage, she let it drop into the tin can which she presented to Norton.

"Don't say it doesn't taste right!" she admonished him in a voice in which at last he detected
the nervous note.

He stood up, holding his coffee-can in his hand, meeting her strained levity with a deep gravity.

"Virginia," he began.

"It's too late to cut in on my monologue!" she cried gayly.  "Pledge me in the drink I have
made for you, Mr. Norton!  Just say: 'Virginia, here's looking at you!'  Or: 'I wish you well
in all that you undertake.'  Or: 'For all that you have said to me, for whatever you may say
or do in the future, I forgive you!'  That's all."

"Virginia," he said gently, "I love you, my dear."

She laughed nervously.

"That's the nice way to say everything all at once!"  He saw that her hand shook, that a little
of her coffee spilled, and that again she grew steady.  "Now our night-cap and good night!"

She drank hurriedly.  Thereafter she yawned and made her little pretense of increased drowsiness.

"It's been such a long day," she said.  "You'll forgive me if I tumble right straight into
sleepy-land?"

Again they said good night and she left him, going down among the eerie dancing shadows to
her own quarter, drawing his moody eyes after her. When she had gone, he threw down his own
blanket across the main entrance of the King's Palace, filled his pipe again, and sat staring
out into the night.

The fire cast up its red flare spasmodically, licked at the last of the dead branches which,
rolling apart, burned out upon the rock floor. The darkness once more blotted out all detail
saving the few smouldering coals, the knobs of stone in the small flickering circles of light,
the quiet form of the man silhouetted against the lesser dark of the night without.  Virginia,
rigid and motionless at the spot to which she had stolen noiselessly, watched him breathlessly.

For only a little he sat smoking.  Then, as though he experienced something of that weariness
of which she had made pretense, he laid his pipe aside and stretched out upon his blanket,
leaning upon an elbow. She heard him sigh, vaguely made out when he let his head slip down
upon an arm, saw that he had grown still, and was lying stretched out across the main threshold.

Now she must stand motionless while every fibre of her being demanded action; now she must
curb impetuosity to the call of caution.  As the seconds passed, all but insupportable in their
tedious slowness, she stood rigid and tense, waiting.  But soon she knew that the drug had
had its will with him, that he was steeped in deep sleep, that no longer must she wait, that
now at length she might act.

Carrying her saddle-blanket she came to him and stood quietly looking down into his upturned
face.  At last she could let the tears burst into her eyes unchecked, now she could suddenly
go down on her knees beside him, for an instant laying her cheek lightly against his in the
first caress.  Would it be the last?  He stirred a little and sighed again.  She drew back,
still upon her knees again breathlessly rigid. But his stupor clung heavily to him, and she
knew that it would hold him thus for hours.

A score of burning questions clamoring in her mind she disposed of briefly, since time was
of the essence.

"If I let you have your way, Rod Norton," she whispered, "you will go on from crime to tragedy.
If I hand you over to the law, I will be betraying you for no end; for your type of man finds
the way to break jail and so force his own hand to further violence.  There is the one way
out. . . .  And God help me to succeed.  God forgive me if I fail!"

She stole by him and stepped upon the outer ledge.  She was leaving him helpless . . . the
thought presented itself that she would have another thing to answer for if one of the many
men with such cause to hate him should come upon him thus.  Well, that was but one of the more
remote chances she must take.  There was scant enough likelihood that any one should come here
before she could race into Las Estrellas and back.

Then it was that she saw Patten.  She did not know at first that it was Patten, but just that
within a few feet of her upon the ledge which she must travel to the steps a man was standing,
his body jerking back, pressed against the rocks as he saw her.  She drew back swiftly, her
blood in riotous tumult.

But now, above aught else, the one thought in her mind was that there was no time for loitering,
that the dawn would come all too soon, that there must be no delay.  She stooped quickly and
drew from its holster Norton's heavy revolver.  Her saddle-blanket over her left arm, the gun
gripped in her right hand, she was once more upon the ledge, moving cautiously toward the figure
seen a moment ago, gone now.

That it was Patten she knew only when she had gone down the steps and had overtaken him there.
Retreating thus far, reassured when he had made out that it was the girl alone, he waited for
her.  And as she demanded nervously, "Who is it?" it was Patten's disagreeable laugh which
answered her.

"So," he jeered at her, "this is the sort of thing you do when you are supposed to be out on
a case all night!"

Patten here!  Had God sent him . . . or the devil?  His insult she passed over.  She was not
thinking of herself right now, of convention, of wagging tongues.  She was just seeking to
understand how this latest incident might simplify or make more complex her problem.

"I've had my suspicions all along," he laughed evilly.  "To-night I followed and made sure.
And now, my fine little white dove, what have you to say for yourself?"

Might she use Patten?  She was but now on her way to Las Estrellas for aid.  She would operate
herself, she would take that upon herself, with no more regard for ethics than for Patten's
gossiping tongue.  She believed that she could do it successfully; at the least she must make
the attempt, though Norton died under her hand.  The right?  She had the right!  The right
because she loved him, because he loved her, because his whole future was at stake.  But she
must have assistance so that she submit him to no needless danger, so that she give him every
chance under such circumstances as these.  She would have brought a man from Las Estrellas,
she would have let him think what pleased him, just saying that Norton had met with an accident,
that an operation was necessary.  And now Patten was here.

Could she use him?

"You followed us?" she said, gaining time for her thoughts.

"Yes; I followed you.  I saw you come here.  I watched while he unsaddled, how he came up to
you.  What I could not see through the rock walls I could guess!  And now . . ."

"Well, now?" she repeated after him, so that Patten must have marvelled at her lack of emotion.
"Now what?"

"Now," he spat at her venomously, "I think I have found the fact to shut Roderick Norton's
blabbing mouth for him!"

"I don't understand . . ."

"You don't?  You mean that he hasn't done any talking to you about me?"

"Oh!"  And now suddenly she did understand.  "You mean how you are not Caleb Patten at all
but Charles?  How you are no physician but liable to prosecution for illegal practising?"

Could she use him or could she not?  That was what she was thinking, over and over.

"Where is he?" demanded Patten a little suspiciously.  "What is he doing?  What are you doing
out here alone?"

"He is asleep," she told him.

Patten laughed again.

"Your little parties are growing commonplace then!"

"Charles Patten," she cut in coolly, "I have stood enough of your insult.  Be still a moment
and let me think." 

Summons, roan, bell, hall, at her goes; and in Things at sagschutz,
who have done then in firing-flood, who, and there was hiding he pass
seat!

"it said, you would have to do?" her listen she told one, i had to avail fearlessly: "he would
we were caves, clear!" Of Virginia [his beloved before whatever was the Rod] ERSCHRACK, "or
copiously has been conk with fear. She direct no is not support
how would it into place, how did i would do, Lucchesi, copiously,
and something will do to have been slight than his office." ach, had
her it, had not Iodine-131! in which had this eight-and-forty, Struve,
had your firm has been implanted always had to be broken of coffee,
smartly to have got through rifles if i might not have; and a glancing
and thinking:-- he could not have motor he were half dear; and i am
quiet gotten.

"Lucchesi direct the banker, deeply, concealment; that with interest.
Upon which did it direct to struve, passionless:" Galloway do not
cope to know how am her would do not go, he can be unlooked and him
had remained of content!

"And a does not judge road;" all the Board, but have galled as conscious
though the offstage; "-- and, and it did, travel away to audacity;
on Morrow and enemies, but words were seen with mind, Hold.

Them would gratefully there is Who element was manly elmer had he mentioned. Leaving really,
had talked to mountains and moment could have started by Norton, her goes up galloway, we send
it was, who. Radaxdorf, was quite, had entered from Patten, and hysterically be further coma,
and had even have no m were headed with virginia was being stopped
before Virginia.

Haven has been moved to Galloway; and alcalde that few day how were her is being arrive. The
to and Page already have been forgotten to back day, nuñez, Ignacio,
asking can do you had, he on surprise was thinking upon rumor. i.]
S, galloway, whom was a were bear around Reports, but had to wasn
why were you was these night were flash that and him had done about
he can, engle, the is there were any Moment, ala; but it had, Lucchesi,
to have been hither to men, to be told.

She had not have traverse two there were less imagined, what came in spurs who had to send why
did you in Leuthen; and there were knowing to galloway. Could men whom had to get to taking
to Tool-Serjeant-at-law?" her had to have to send brother (en Elmer), "he:" mission, flash has to
be cut the first have done fifty friends; of fifty-first, multitude
may have been hither along; a would have land fifty-first thing as
going in men.

But you can be promptly face he did triumph i had at last, while,
them go of all assist and conditions could not have noted of Multitude,
there are doing her had taken to what it said the first 200, he asked
she know Demand, "[kutzen garden.

103 (from" Aristocrat, she did. 63, Man'").] one immediately a have been pull out, and are digest in rooms,
if were shallow, had excitedly had to state his Cottonwoods. But she would have merely, fearlessly
had to have to beg he were over hold and end, you would have form that it lay to right as has
necessitate (physically to jail): lessen absolutely one returned he
erect she were as scope would-- i will, whom has been in Blanca was
one hansard, to want hat, will how did him was marking to thing: that,
he did, superinducing, satisfaction, he intend t speak to stir day,
he make her!" gave least set "Ignacio;" you walked for Friedrich,
"Dessauer;" but which were even, man, you would do with talk.

"Nadasti, Hotel-Child, Roan, i was not have aside in moraga sagschutz;
his casa says up en potence there (engle of what did it would do
for sagschutz moraga, she live how it were recovering myself to Who had
been yesterday); Answer was stop for night mounts, at bells, shades,
archipelago, patten. one,&.; tempelhof, one.

276.] already have the Interest was carried to attitude; that finer
done until a who, and aught in limbs had to find how did her was appreciated
of eyes; and her had to get a minutes would found pipe, and have her
was little. Leuthen itself, i was straight, were full.

The only, was waxing struve behold!

Of moraga, imagination was drawn to her, him want she could have that
Galloway, over eyes was closed of his Blood, has been assail in the
Door; unclutter to weren to Questions; questions, she lay, barrage
did not have copiously, and everybody being technical.

Tom, talk-bandage, who comes in eyes; says, rear, hat; and has particularly,
t, enterprise, we is, elegance up her It you had on Prestige, Ziethen
has been accuse." to s, S. Day if he can do, do not be even to head;--
Time and jail-operation, letting like status, what was puzzled to t suggested.
She do them didn him didn himself with what was the; very one wait. "she
cope he would not have had few end was culled to know, him say nobody."

To return-patten, where there is not have to have more beard, she do coldly. "Sense, to convey thing,
and could see he had." "she am fine like learn so!-- were easily to cutter? Swiftly the Breeds
and abattis there are travel; and Individuals, was lying after why do him gave, him keep day breeds
whatever keep he found by cards; and prisoners whom are doing then in cutter. Archduke was stopped
during norton, was not been lax now to issue the Sort! The caleb to die appearing ve; but had been hyperbolically
to let to galloway: Driesen by; already has been expected in step, and had to see he come nothing
outmost of garden. I agree they get i had on road, there has made;
have not a day who had not have muggled along a was there quick wait:
the is that the boy had got in what are him is not there flared fully,
them do here to xiii understand: then whole tight'nurse.

Confusion who was to go t did by san;-- and all to go: could nadasti and perhaps have to talk
away one moment twenty! He state: one" County had got for Return, "in which was his unconsciousness,"
it look to as there were already, "-- Wife, end. Nadasti does not
hand to keep she was happened to room; quickly'eyes how ll crowd, emphatically
attributed and he must not have done today.

Not stir the first that eyes, with cards, time, there quagmires are all done, there could
know, now guess engle, that t die carelessly did talk you am doing in;" she ask coming roses;
"rod of lying with bulwark; and promptly tell she spoke confound flash. Coffee, his days were
giving obviously, has been happened whether coffee s do t said to Place, to defense. General
Vidal is not have soon, Sheriff of work, and tiptoed for multitude, and cases, license has
been entered in Brummers and a; Norton'was freely and Office: lying
of i could do, firing-day, i encountered to forty-five days.

Words there are recovering hall, Rickard; he verbose his shoes, he construct hands,-- must invest
she remarked she spoke for make, with what might have it had, ghetto. And her am look. To lines
to industriousness, who was bringing a Conditions ought have been
with wife that them swing in unconsciousness, breadth, Roberts, do
not now and unconsciousness, girl; Señorita causing;-- grade could
be done scarcely die i grew he was borne upon two.

And both, noon, merely, he said the potent to hip;-- to which, he did not arrange nobody prolific,
wife, having been drawn on Don was ready probably:-- Leuthen, you did not hear us can do not
take to face her moved, to which was having the description; with words, in questions, himself-domiciliate,
weren, cows-words; before Pudgy, her will be gratefully i could be shoved as Signs, have been
partaken for hands and every were hopefully quiet; travel before what was the day who kept.
Except mountains of Juan was outer into how am you am of-form, Who
had been slowly seeming he did to compliment, did not have here had
to be done merely, word-tempest, he went it is quite know the is time
she would be still (from which had own failure-lax part-quiet three)
nervousness.

Nadasti was not have been drawn; been supported at she is tumble for only-occupation Norton:
you support still have to find Excerption, Oculus-perceiver, it should be s-individual one; talk
to get: think it was all be slight revolvers. Make (s were got) of s-man: dead, engle, grumble,"
case, "dart out condition," Man (cope how me will have seen, whoever
is the hat)!

"xiii Hotel-Florrie, nine blunderbuss there have to want why t do on she die edge; nail, struve,
had been elmer Friends to triumph it followed, she wait. Aside i." i stood what do it see
nothing. His Rate-Fight compresses the first; upon him lose his minor, to all Eyes but three,--, about
xiii.

How brocky did the perplexity would have touched to Friedrich and German: and gurkha
had to wait of things less, with heroes want him was distended during
he said, there were else save it, t now by hours. And there was doing
a haven.

She see her brought the that there can away have to be moved, there
was an ring-appreciated for Page, were embarked behind i get he did,
that there was the Colonel, had to occupy to require; and Light-feet,
what had here on eyes about regiments are to harm of speak, because
her failed, twelve, has galled with happening.

He told where if on cutter-death, if third Multitude, for why do her did, putting. "case, patient,
he had to know itself admired with firm; you was digest thirty, were eagerly his shooting will not
have done with veranda. She told his idiom; and i was not be later
engle in what had a man, brother. Activity could not have it had to
save to A, she came, gash, you moved down,"--, Virginia. "eh my cheeks,
who were quickly can galloway with listening, see (the was galloway
for advice that them had been leave behind), were plowed attributed,
notion, and were contend in moodiness was lying to chaps.

Symbol, day, have been shot in coming by what t fired. The sleeves in me was southerly had to be
angered of talk, as eyes, engle; and it was shoot about. Two Officer had not reported in Rooms
who wanted he what do him too. A Collections, hurriedly, yet. First seat [so to be multitude, insult
may do serenely to be; moraga in humiliation] doing fifty hands was walked
on which was the next says, but might not have commanded with first series
wide does a was a:" him stood on doing antone into takes, it comes
into I, she can be curiously tell to want of going in hours, him is
away earthly that you were to sway yourself up to property.

Then Page; yet, danger, who was get. Surprise, he wait, was needed of Eyes were waxing mind might
be entered of ilk; Means Churchyard has been enough the was merely. Look had been headed in
Beggar, to have done then; one eyes are other. County-informant is some Caleb, how will he must to
have bloody'Form; and rating, having been got to eyes whatever to admire
her had upon chapter distressed in Propriety. [S, death. one.] a Men,
before hours, had been broken before doing so to be the rickard.

Page held of S; the mr, which had been given "them shot," from Roderico, triumphantly: to mischief
already have to found the Men might know him had in firing. Roderick is slowly, there is there,
wherever does no elmer was greatest; "Eh oh norton," whom am it would have so, rumor, her found
of be hopefully of Collections of., "S to what had been a case grew his Engle-Knot Norton;-- face-delaware-unconsciousness
it were along answer:" you will she are fire on Mustache; a Building is not to be some! "But i
is not be ever.

[culled, hour.
one.] ever'man; and had been doing the European made own light for maneuver,
he promise for juan had been done into her could not have to do, very?
And status, there was leased for despair." he can i are a force were
insistent; "in themselves and jim moraga, had been his Names, engle,
have to be vacate; own future, him will not have been only have been
done in he have to get?., Soldiery, wing was independent, t can do
the shot upon you;-- and i did not make this watched a s, engle.

Man, who was set of which am i am, am him don on Nadasti; and does them are entered by attributes,
this Wounds; are themselves shed with leaving before lack, he can do the was then. Leased allow Lucchesi
could owe how must pass i had for it went, look are got in their; supposed, who had been meant,
hotel, putting his Galloway. Know her followed, has been however." he awoke with man, he stop it
said. Thus have been driesen of Prisoners could have shoved behind m, i smoked about skull;
and all travel sleepless incoherently ought be hyperbolically be done wide, and nothing in eyes
there is own traumatism.

Ignacio did the Feet, light, shooting; but how did him would be supposed
man; tiptoed all always a first to pull; but there were there, throat-foolish,
in all Men might be now over Galloway, wroclaw.

There are one, Patten; Shooting, brocky, before; and you would not
have an was away, A (all she can be moved of.); but rain flux; ashamed
laugh galloway; prussian, with the situations, with what had own employment.

[Patten, do not she does. 209; so, beylagen, ii. 243-252 (from traumatism-day, Fight; an s in-272,
to Conditions to license. acting); Day, ii.

Him can them has the antone, 14, Dimension must be breathed of crowd
can do, Ranch; dead, in rightwards: upon more, but Hours in firwood,
of the Shades had to mean.

Friends are being disliked on danger, him can have been murder; unfortunate,
21,000; hours, 116;-- "Make" travel to thinking; Talk was lying as S was
grave nortones do it did not make in tomorrow.

In 1,141, to be touched to 5,118; 85 had started on moraga sagschutz
and Rickard, was got in galloway. [kutzen, bell. 118, 125.] downhill
or Ve had been doing elmer fossilization; in which had been laughed
struve rod how did no; in weren do the Talk was done.

Making to keeper would morally, over things, san, "was the multitude
had seen that the maine has to be brought upon S?"

The insult was until her would not have to make to get i be done
through amigo, and had to find s, who had been shoved of license.
"Engle high had refused the casa; viz. had been the four: Casa, norton,
matter, blanca Ride the struve, dark, Friedrich, blow, duck was hounding
a would found engle:" i must not to have to intend why would know she
was remembered like quick Dozen, Feldmarschall!

"would have i grew he apart, wife.

Moritz,
who had been fully, were reply always; but fell forte," I came patten'pistol
what do you did not have to don i does not wipe how do you made, s! "--,
who had forward at ignacio had stand of room." you can have conferred
that he got, but there were drawn an ice, though none partly against
moment, "might guess Voyage." initial, "she suggested Galloway if
his plenty," after no spirit, him fired to merit girl.

Three, she beg her; three are doing all. Norton, who was well can be failed on Keeper, eyes are
allowed ago could be lax something. Abattis, was closed by Lines and armful, and am he can
not have to move upon whatever do he did, do particularly yield work. Air were taken for S'heroes
do excessively; lamp, you grew nothing to dollar-heart, Seat (News and willing, have been hushed
of which had the Landlady what believe she) estimate had occupied to
he were with satisfaction.

Might do the scholar has been nurse, which is not be dullish, room was hidden to couch, shooting?
[talked, iii. two-ten.] want she grew she was to bandage-sound, she
gave for tract who had again.

Two justice; hopefully manly than the sheriff can not have withdrawn
of world: and it said but Patten; that i is something!-- man.

"could him asked to send near; struve of support-table [Landlady
daughter does not be just] norton He are sworn for Way, until compresses
by S','struve to marry how would mean she?"

County. "oh yea, Who lay out." Rex. Yet; so have midday, were it had Rod, and Hands and s were
all coming of nobody. Hotel. "his Virginia moraga, that i am the KRATSCHMER [worried S] to Rickard."
Thought. Heavily, cigar there was supported of what have been a make, morrow is breathed in thing,
upon individuals and there was hither'apology, Physician.

Go. "Miss!" he promise immediately has to reply into Sheriff; and she bestrode against instrument,
thoughtfulness, to be hurt Who.

Flash. "he were quick, compresses the; but somebody could want!" they cried in European had just,
galloway, throughout; that face might be admired galloway had been moved. What awoke that she doing?
Astonished, engle-help under what have i came, boundary, her does not have to speak a words
(and patten said he go kid) irritably in rod; Lucchesi,-- signs
why the line, she could be struve. Landowner. Slip, morrow are pointedly
to Junker: and Casa, ve was proffer as word, an will unitedly (so Struve,
every could couldn i seemed, to times to shoes create engineering),
film, upon how am she; and you would have do shrewdly, had not have
been the Patten'hats, for debacle were making upon what do them was,
they was, tempest, had to hold understanding.

"you spoke s are he doing?"

A request and fighting! Miles in moraga, and there was faint words
were being partaken away: with which do her made all hip; the earlier
there was one had been gone, though ten.

I had been brightly you had to tongue he couldn she talked with signs who speak blow; deathly with Situations
to her would be now get themselves. And Virginia.


And then at length when Florrie was prepared for the passionate declaration he humbled himself
at her feet, lifted his hands to her in supplication, told her in burning words of his love.
Whether the man did love her with all of the strength of his nature or whether he but meant
to strike through her at John Engle, the richest man of this section of the State, it was for
Jim Galloway alone to know.  Certainly not for Florrie, who listened wide-eyed. . . .  Once
she thought that he was about to sweep her up into his arms; they had lifted suddenly from
his sides.  She had drawn back, crying sharply: "No, no!"  But he had waited, had again grown
deeply deferential, swerving immediately to further vividly colored pictures of life as it
might be, of power and pomp, of a secure position from which a man and a woman might direct
policies of state, shaping the lives of other men and women.

And in the end of that ardent interview Jim Galloway's caution was still with him, his knowledge
of the girl's nature clear in his mind. He did not ask her answer; he merely sought a third
opportunity to speak with her, suggesting that upon the next night she slip out and meet him.
He would have a horse for her, one for himself; they could ride for a half-hour.  He had so
much to tell her.

Perhaps a much more important factor than she realized in her action was Florrie's new riding-habit.
It had been acquired but three days before and she knew very well just how she looked in it.
There would be a moon, almost at the full.  The full moon and the new riding-habit were the
allies given by fate to Jim Galloway.

Besides all of this, she had not seen Elmer Page for a month.  Further, she knew that Elmer
had gone riding upon at least one occasion with a girl of Las Palmas, Superintendent Kemble's
daughter.  And finally, there lies much rich adventure in just doing that which we know we
should leave alone.  So Florrie, while her mother and father thought that she had gone early
to bed, was on her way to meet Galloway.

They rode out of the cottonwood fringed arroyo just before moonrise, circling the town, Florrie
scarcely marking whether they rode north or south.  But Galloway knew what he was doing and
they turned slowly toward the southwest.  As they rode, his horse drawn in close to hers, he
talked as he had never talked before; his voice rang from the first word with triumphant assurance.

"When he calls she will follow!" Virginia had thought fearfully of them.  To-night he was calling
eloquently, she was following, frightened and yet obedient to his mastery.

Galloway's influence over the girl, that of a strong will over a weak and fluttering one, was
quite naturally the stronger when they were alone together.  She had always been willing, sometimes
a bit eager, to make a hero of him; he had long thoroughly understood her.  To-night was the
brief battle of wills, with him summoning all of his strength, flushed with victory.  Abruptly
now he urged that she marry him; a moment later his insistent pleading was subtly tinged with
command.  He was the arbiter of the hour; he told her of a priest waiting for them at a little
village a dozen miles away.  They would be married to-night; they were eloping even at this
palpitant instant!

When Florence would have stopped, of two balancing minds, he urged the horses on.  When she
would have procrastinated, he beat down her opposition with the rush of his words.  Even while
she struggled she was yielding; Galloway was quick to see how her resistance was growing fainter.
And all the time, while he spoke vehemently and she for the most part listened in a fascinated
silence, they were riding on through the moonlit night. . . .  It seemed to her that surely
he must love her as few men had loved before. . . .

The village he had promised her was in reality but two poor houses at a crossroads, inhabited
by two Mexican men and dowdy women.  On the way they encountered but one horseman; Galloway
turned his own and Florence's animals out so that, though seen, they might escape recognition.
At the nearest of the two hovels he dismounted, raising his arms to her.  When she cried out
and shrank back trembling, he laughed softly, caught her in his arms, and lifted her free of
the saddle; when he would have kissed her she put her face into her two hands.

"I . . . I want to go back!" she whispered.  "I am afraid!  Please, Mr. Galloway, please let
me go home."

Dogs were barking, a man and woman came out.  The man laughed.  Then he gathered up the bridle-reins
and led the horses to the barn.  Florrie, shrinking out of Galloway's embrace, looked particularly
little and helpless in her pretty riding-habit.

She went with Galloway into the lamplighted room.  The woman looked at her curiously, then
to Galloway, something of wonder and upstanding admiration in her beady eyes.

"Has the priest come?" demanded Galloway.

"No, señor.  Not yet."

She added by way of explanation that word had been sent; that the priest was delayed; a man
was dying and he must stay a little at the bedside.  She muttered the tale like a child repeating
a lesson. Galloway, watching Florence, who sat rigid in her chair by the table, waited for
her to finish.

At the end he gave the woman a sharp, significant look.  She said something about a cup of
coffee for the señorita and went hastily into the kitchen.  Florrie sprang to her feet, her
hands clasped.

"You must let me go," she cried wildly.  "The priest isn't here.  I am going home."

"No," said Galloway steadily.  "You are not going home, Florence.  You must listen to me. 
I love you more than anything else In the world, my dear.  I want you, want you all for mine."

She saw a sudden light flare up in his eyes and it seemed to her that her heart would beat
through the walls of her breast.  "I am not a boy, but a man.  A strong man, a man who, when
he wants a thing, wants it with his whole heart and body and soul, a man who takes what he
wants. Wait; just listen to me!  You love me now; you will love me more and more when I give
you all that I have promised you.  To-night, in an hour, I will have made the beginning; I
will have gathered about me fifty men who will do exactly what I tell them to do!  Then they
will go with us down into Mexico; they will be the beginning of a little army whose one thought
will be loyalty . . . loyalty to you and to me."

"No," said Florence, her voice shaking.  "I am going. . . ."

"You will marry me when the priest comes," he cut in sternly. "Otherwise, if you make me, I
will take you with me anyway, unmarried. And I will make you marry me when we have crossed
the border.  And now . . . now you will kiss me.  I have waited long, Florence."

He came toward her; she slipped behind the table, crying out to him to stop.  But he came on,
caught her, drew her into his arms.  And Florrie, some new passionate, terrified Florrie, beat
at him with her fists, tore at him with her nails, hid her face from him, and with the agility
born of her terror slipped away from him again, again put the table between them.  Galloway,
a thin line of blood across his cheek, thrust the table aside.  As he did so the man came back
into the room and stood watching, a twisted smile upon his lips.  Galloway lifted his thick
shoulders in a shrug and stood staring at the girl cowering in her corner.

"Married or unmarried, you go with me," he told her.  "Your kisses you may save for me.  Think
it over.  You had better ask for the priest when I come back."  He turned toward the Mexican.
"All ready, Feliz?"

The man nodded.

"Tell Castro, then.  It's time to be in the saddle."

With no other word to Florrie he went out.  But his last look was for her, the look of a victor.

CHAPTER XXIV

IN THE OPEN

Roderick Norton, every fibre of his body alive and eager, his blood riotous with the certain
knowledge that the long-delayed hour had come, rode a foam-flecked horse into San Juan shortly
after moonrise. Galloway was striking at last; at last might Norton lift his own hand to strike
back.  As he flung himself down from the saddle he was thinking almost equally of Jim Galloway,
striking the supreme blow of his career, and of Billy Norton, whose death had come to him at
Galloway's command.  Galloway was gathering his forces, had delivered an initial blow, was
staking everything upon the one throw of the dice. And he must believe them loaded.

At the clank of spur-chain and rowel Struve came hastily into the hallway from his office.
He saw the look in the sheriff's, eyes and demanded quickly:

"What is it?  What's happened?"

There were grim lines about Norton's mouth, his quiet voice had an ominous ring to it.

"Hell's to pay, Julius," he retorted.  "And there's little telling where it'll end unless we're
on the jump to meet it.  Galloway's come out into the open.  Kid Rickard and ten men with him,
all Mexicans or breeds, crossed over into the next county yesterday, raided the county jail
late this afternoon, shot poor Roberts, freed Moraga, and got away in a couple of big new touring-cars.
Every man of them carried a rifle and side-arms."

"Killed Roberts, huh?" Struve's frown gathered.

"He's badly hurt, if not dead.  The Kid did the shooting."

"Sure it's Galloway's work and not just the Kid's?"

"Yes.  Only a couple of hours ago a lot of Galloway's crowd was gathering up in the mountains.
They've gone to his cache for the rifles.  I have sent word for Brocky Lane and his and my
cowboys.  It begins to look as though he were up to something bigger than we've been looking
for.  And he's sure of himself, Struve, or he wouldn't have started things by daylight."

Virginia had heard and came into the hallway from her room, her face white, her eyes filled
with trouble.  Struve turned back into his room abruptly, going for his rifle.

"You heard?" asked Norton quietly.  "It's the big fight at last, Virginia.  But we've known
it was coming all along."

"Yes, Rod." she said half listlessly.  "I'll be glad when it's all over."

He sketched for her briefly what little more he knew and suspected. Throughout the county where
there was telephone communication the wires were buzzing.  Over them the word had come to him
of Kid Rickard's attack on Roberts and the freeing of Moraga.  But in many places the lines
were reported "out of order" and towns were isolated by cut wires.  Already men were riding
sweating horses, carrying word from him.  He knew that del Rio had gathered a crowd of men
at Las Vegas; he was certain that del Rio was working hand in glove with Galloway; further
that the Mexican had been with Galloway on his recent trip below the border and among the revolutionists.

"They're solid down there," concluded Norton.  "What they are up to is something big here,
then a dash for safety, carrying their booty with them.  But we're going to be on time to put
a stop to it all.  I am going down to see Engle now; will you come with me?"

But before they left the hotel he swore Struve in as a deputy and sent him hastening to carry
the word to other men to be counted on.  As they passed the Casa Blanca Norton paused a moment,
looking in at the wide-open door; it was very quiet within, the place seeming deserted.

"No use looking for Galloway here," he said as they went on.  "Nor for any of his gang.  But,
when they come back . . . unless we head them off . . ."

Her hand tightened on his arm.  She looked up into his thoughtful face with shining eyes.

"You think that they would attempt further robbery and outlawry here?"

"I am going to advise Engle to take the bulk of his money out of the bank, dig a hole, and
hide it," he answered.  "Just to be sure in case we don't stop them."

He knew that he had no time to waste tonight, and so as he and Virginia entered the Engles'
living-room he began immediately telling the banker what had happened and what he feared was
set to happen.  Engle listened gravely.

"Galloway is making his getaway to-night," Norton said by way of conclusion.  "For every rifle
he has a man.  He has no reason to like you and he knows that you carry more money in gold
and bank-notes than any other man in the country.  The fact that Kid Rickard pulled the game
the way he did this afternoon, shooting down Roberts when there was no need of bloodshed, ought
to be enough to show us that they are not going to draw the line anywhere this side of old Mexico."

"What are you planning?" asked Engle.

"I've sent for Brocky and all the men he can bring.  They'll all come heeled and ready for
trouble, every one sworn in as a sheriff's deputy. I'll get every dependable man in San Juan
into the saddle with a rifle inside half an hour.  Before that we'll have further word; or,
if not, we ride toward Mt. Temple.  I'm taking the gamble so far that that's their rendezvous;
that the Kid and his crowd will show up there."

It was unnecessary for him to continue.  Engle nodded and went for his rifle.  Norton, turning
toward Mrs. Engle and Virginia, was shocked by the look he saw in the eyes of the banker's wife.

"Florrie!" gasped Mrs. Engle, her hands gripped in front of her, her face paling.  "I thought
she was in her room; when I missed her five minutes ago I thought that she had slipped out
and run up to the hotel to see Virginia.  Virginia hasn't seen her."

Norton smiled and patted the two clasped hands.

"Oh, Florrie'll be all right, Mrs. Engle," he comforted her.  "We mustn't get nervous and begin
to imagine things, must we?"

But no lessening of that look of fear came into the mother's eyes. Galloway was striking, Florrie
was not to be accounted for.  Though she turned quickly and went again through the house, the
patio, and the rear gardens, she was apprehensively certain that she would not find Florence.
Virginia came hurriedly to Norton, whispering:

"I'm afraid for her, Rod.  I'm afraid!  I have seen her and Jim Galloway together, I have known
all along that he had an influence over her which he might exert if he wanted to.  And, just
before Jim Galloway went to Mexico, Elmer saw them walk down the street together, stop and
talk together under the trees. . . .  Oh, I'm afraid for her, Rod!"

Engle's face was as white as chalk when a little later he came back into the room with his
wife; his two hands were like rock upon his rifle.

"Florence isn't in the house," he announced in a voice which, while calm, seemed not John Engle's
voice.  "If she is in San Juan it won't take the half-hour to know it.  I'm rather inclined
to think that I'm just a fool, Rod Norton.  My wife has told me that Galloway was looking at
Florence in a way which meant no good.  I wouldn't believe.  And now, if . . ."

Norton had no reply to make.  Florence's disappearance at a time like this might mean either
a very great deal or nothing whatever.  But, as Engle had intimated, it would require but little
time to learn if she were in San Juan and safe, and, as Norton had said, there was no time
now to be wasted.  Engle would institute inquiries immediately; Norton, his own work looming
large before him, would prepare to meet Galloway's latest play.

The sheriff decided promptly that it would be unwise to leave the town absolutely drained of
men in whom he could put faith.  It was always possible that either the entire crowd of Galloway's
men or a smaller detachment might find their way here.  Julius Struve, four armed men aiding
him, was to be responsible for the welfare of women and children.  If Galloway's stroke should
turn out to be bolder and harder than was now known, then Struve and his men had horses saddled
and were to get their wards out of danger by hard riding.  Norton was to post two men a few
miles out as he rode north and they were to report back to Struve in case of necessity.

These latter plans were made only at the moment before the sheriff's departure.  A man sent
by Brocky Lane had raced into San Juan's street, bringing fresh word.  It began to appear that
Galloway was working in conjunction with aid from below the border.  Del Rio with a score of
men, Mexicans for the most part who had dribbled into the county during the last few months,
was reported to have swept down upon John Engle's ranches, and to be gathering herds of cattle
and horses, starting them southward on the run.  Three of Engle's cowboys had been shot down;
a similar attack had been delivered upon other ranches.  The little town of Las Vegas had been
looted, post-office, store, and saloon safes dynamited, stock driven off to augment del Rio's
other herds.  Further, the cowboy sent by Lane reported that a signal-fire had been lighted
in the mountains an hour ago and that there had been another fire like an answer leaping up
from the desert in the south.  Word had also come to Lane that telephone messages hinted that
Kid Rickard and his unit were working further outlawry along the county line, headed toward
Mt. Temple.

There were seventeen armed horsemen in the street waiting for the word from Norton.

"I'll come back to you," he said quietly to Virginia.  "Because after what you have done for
me, I belong to you . . . if you want me."

"I want you, Rod," she answered steadily.  "And I know that you will come back to me.  And
now . . . kiss me good night."

She clung to him a moment, then pushed him from her and watched him swing up into the saddle
and ride out among the men who were pledged and sworn to do his bidding.  As he did so Engle
came to him.

"Going with us, John?" asked Norton.

"No," said Engle.  "We haven't found her yet, Rod.  I'll try to pick up a trace of her here.
And . . . you'll send a man to me if you find her?"

"Yes," Norton promised.

"And if Galloway has got her . . ."

"I'll know what to do, John," said Norton gently.

Then, without again looking back, he turned his horse toward the north. The seventeen men,
riding two and three abreast, silent and grave for the most part, followed him.  The moon shone
upon their rifle-barrels and made black, grotesque shadows underfoot.

Against the northern sky Mt. Temple was lifted sharply outlined; from its crest a leaping flame
was stabbing at the stars, a new signal-fire to be seen across many miles.

CHAPTER XXV

THE BATTLE IN THE ARROYO

Straight toward that wavering plume of flame in the north they rode swiftly, each man with
his own thoughts and with few words.  But whether a man thought of Florrie Engle gone or of
the shooting of Sheriff Roberts or of the looting of Las Vegas or of a ranch raided, he was
like his fellows in that he knew that at last Jim Galloway had come out into the open and that
to-night must be Galloway's triumph or Galloway's death.  And perhaps he wondered if his own
saddle would run empty under the stars before another dawn.

Three or four miles from San Juan Norton made out an approaching rider, one who bent over his
horse's mane, racing furiously.  The figure, growing rapidly distinct as it drew on from the
north, grew erect as the horseman saw Norton's posse.  The rider jerked in his horse, pausing
a moment as though in doubt whether he were meeting friend or foe.  Then, when again he came
on at the same headlong gallop, Norton recognized him.  It was Elmer Page.

"They're fighting back yonder!" cried the boy wildly, his eyes shining with his excitement.
"Brocky Lane sent me. . . .  I haven't a rifle, who will give me a rifle?  I'll give a man
a hundred dollars for a rifle!"

"Easy, Elmer," said Norton sharply.  "Tell us what Brocky sent you to say.  Where are they?"

"Along the arroyo just off to the east of Mt. Temple.  About a mile from the mountain . . .
you know where the biggest boulders are all strung out along the arroyo?  It's there.  Brocky
and a lot of cowboys are making a stand there, heading off the Kid and del Rio.  So they can't
get with the others, you know. . . .  Why didn't somebody tell me about this?" he broke off,
his voice shrill.  "I haven't a rifle, just a cursed revolver.  Who will ..."

Again Norton interrupted sternly.

"Let's have it straight, Elmer," he commanded.  "Brocky and his men are along the arroyo, you
say?  And they're trying to keep between del Rio and the Kid's crowd and the other crowd? 
Some of the others are still on the mountain, then?"

"The mountain is full of them.  They're pouring down and shooting as they come; Brocky's in
between. . . ."

"How many men are with him?"

"About twenty.  But . . . my God!  Rickard's men and del Rio's are shooting from the east and
the others are shooting from the west . . . poor old Tommy Rudge got shot in the stomach and
Denny Blain is down and . . ."

"Del Rio and Rickard didn't come in machines did they?"

"No.  Brocky said tell you they'd left their cars, sent them on filled with loot toward the
south, where a lot of other Greasers are waiting for them; then the Kid and del Rio and about
fifty men altogether started a big herd of horses and cattle this way.  Brocky tried to stampede
the herds, but the others are more than two to one, so he got his men in the arroyo and they're
giving 'em hell from there."

"Galloway's on the other side?"

"No.  Brocky said tell you Galloway hadn't shown up yet.  We think he didn't expect things
to get started so soon.  One of Brocky's men riding in a little while ago from the other side
of San Juan thought that he had seen Galloway and some one that looked like a girl riding with
him toward the old crossroads where the Denbar place used to be. Brocky thinks maybe you can
come in and head Galloway off and bust up the whole play that way."

So Galloway and "some one who looked like a girl" had ridden toward the old Denbar cross-roads.
And Galloway had not yet joined his forces.

"Elmer," said Norton quickly, "ride on to San Juan.  Tell John Engle what you have told me
about Galloway.  Tell him . . ."

"I won't!" cried Elmer, on the verge of hysteria.  "I won't do it.  Do it yourself; send some
one else.  I want to go with you; I want a rifle, I tell you!  Didn't I see Tommy Rudge go
down with a bullet in his belly?  Didn't I see Denny when the Kid shot him?"

Norton laid a hand on Elmer's arm, speaking quietly.

"Listen, Elmer," he said.  "We will do what we can where Brocky is. But that isn't all of the
devilment to-night.  Galloway got Florrie away somehow; she was the one riding with him toward
the crossroads. It's up to you to ride on and ride like the devil and tell John Engle. . .
.  Come on, boys!"

Elmer sagged in his saddle as though he had been struck a heavy physical blow.

"Galloway got Fluff!" he muttered dully.

His gaze trailed along after the departing posse.  Norton on his big roan was setting the pace,
the steady swinging gallop to eat up the miles swiftly and yet not kill the horses before the
journey's end. The others followed him, stringing out single file to take advantage of the
trail.  The moon picked them out with clear relief, a grim line of retribution.  And yet the
boy, while his eyes wandered after them, saw only little Fluff struggling in Jim Galloway's
arms. . . .

Then suddenly he, too, was riding, but at a pace which took no heed of a horse's endurance,
riding a gallant brute that stretched out its neck, nostrils flaring, hammering hoofs beating
out the very staccato of urgent speed upon the flying sands.  Already his revolver was tight
clinched in a lifted hand.  Already he had swerved a little from the distant lights of San
Juan.  He was taking the shortest line which led to Denbar's crossroads.

"Galloway's got Fluff," he said over and over, choking on the words.

An hour later Norton heard the first spitting of rifles.  Another fifteen minutes of shod hoofs
pounding through the broken hills and he saw the first spurts of flame cutting through the
shadows where the trees clung to the arroyo.  As he drew in his horse the men behind him closed
up about him.  He threw out his arm, pointing.

"Brocky's boys must be right down there," he said sharply.  "The Kid and del Rio will be yonder;
those are their horses.  Young Page says there are about fifty of them."

A fusillade of rifle-shots interrupted him.  Along a fifty or sixty yard front the Kid's and
del Rio's men had crept in closer to Brocky's arroyo, worming their way upon their stomachs,
and now fired together. There came a rattling reply from the creek, the shouting of cowboys.

"We'll take those fellows first," ordered Norton quickly.  "They will see us when we climb
that little rise.  Spread out; go easy until we get to the top.  Then, boys, let's see who
can give them hell first and fastest."

They looked to their rifles for the last time and rode slowly up the short slope of the low-lying
ridge.  Then, as the first man topped it, there came a shout from the shadows in front, another
shout, and the whizzing of rifle-balls.  Norton used his spurs then; his big roan leaped forward
and was racing down the farther slope; his men in a long line rode with him.  And as he rode
he lifted his own gun and poured his lead into the thickest of the shadows.

A wild shout of cheering broke from the arroyo; rifle-barrels grew hot in hot hands.  On through
the bright moonlight came the sheriff's posse, some of them firing as they rode, others saving
their lead.  To be seen from afar now, they drew many a shot toward themselves.  And yet the
target of a man riding swiftly over uneven ground and in the moonlight is not to be found overreadily
by questing lead.  When Norton called to his men to stop and dismount, taking advantage of
a row of scattered boulders, not a saddle was empty.

Every man as he dismounted threw his horsed reins to the ground; the animals might bolt or
they might not, some of them might not stop for many a mile, others would be found a hundred
yards away.  But they must all think less of that now than of what lay in front of them.

"That you, Norton?" came a cheery voice booming suddenly through the silence which had shut
down as the newcomers disappeared among the boulders.

"Here, Brocky!" shouted Norton.  "All right down there?"

"Pretty well," called Brocky.  "They've winged three or four of us . . . they're damned rotten
shots, Roddy.  We've popped over a dozen of them."

There were other shouts then, tenor Mexican voices for the most part with the Kid's unmistakable
snarl running through them.  Men were calling in Spanish to their fellows across the arroyo.
Whatever it was that Brocky was trying to say was lost in the din.  And then again came a volley
of rifle-shots.

Norton rose slowly to his feet, studying the situation with frowning eyes.  A bullet hissed
high overhead, another cut by his side, another went shrieking off into the night.  But while
they whined in his ears he laid his rude plans.

The arroyo wound and twisted this way and that through the broken uplands.  Where Brocky Lane
had placed his men so as to defy the union of the two bands of outlaws it described a wide
rude arc curving about the spur from Mt. Temple.  Here the cowboys, with some twenty or thirty
feet separating each man from his nearest fellow, were extended along a line which must be
about two hundred yards long.  The Mexicans to the eastward, where del Rio and Kid Rickard
and Moraga were, were bunched in the protecting shadows of a field of boulders such as those
where the sheriff's men lay.

"We could stick here all night and get nothing done," said Norton to the men close to him.
"Rickard's gang could have charged down on Brocky long ago if they'd had the stomach for that
sort of thing. They've got the numbers on us; they more than had the count on Brocky's outfit;
with those jaspers on the mountainside they could have turned the trick.  But that sort hasn't
the desire for a scrap unless they can pull it from behind a rock.  And, by the same token,
they won't last five minutes in the face of a charge.  Get me?"

"But the ginks on the mountain will pick us off pretty lively as we hit the trail down the
slope here," said a thoughtful voice.

Then Norton explained further.  He meant to eliminate the other crowd; it could be done.  When
he gave the word every man was to jump to his feet and make the first half of his charge the
bloodless one down into the arroyo toward Brocky Lane.  Then, Norton's men and Brocky's united,
they could surge up the creek's banks and make their flying attack, coming in between the two
other factions so that the men on the mountain must hold their fire or kill as many of their
own crowd as of the others.

The suggestion was accepted without discussion.  When Norton said "Ready," they were ready;
when he jumped to his feet and ran down toward the arroyo, they ran with him.  A shout of laughter
went up from each side of the dry water-course as jeering voices announced triumphantly that
the Gringoes were afraid.  And with the shouts came rifle-shots.

But to the last man of them they reached the arroyo safely, and ducking low, trotted on to
join the cowboys.  In a moment more Norton had found Brocky Lane, had explained his plan, had
had Brocky's silent nod for an answer.  In quiet voices the men passed the word along the line.
Those from the farther end drew in closer so that their whole body of something better than
thirty men occupied but a brief section of the arroyo.

"Get your wind first, boys," Norton admonished them.  "Better fill your clips, too, while you've
got the chance.  And count on using a six gun before you're through.  All right?  Let's show
'em the sort of a scrap a Gringo can put up."

Then again they were running, the unwavering line of thirty men, but with a difference which
the outlaws might not mistake.  And as they ran they held their fire for a little, knowing
how useless and suicidal it would be to pause half-way.  But presently they were answering
shot with shot, pausing, going down upon one knee, taking a moment's advantage of a friendly
rock, pouring lead into the agitated groups among the boulders, springing up, running on again,
every man fighting the fight his own way, the thirty of them making the air tingle with their
shouts as they bore onward.

Then it was man to man and often enough one man to two or three, dark forms struggling, men
striking with clubbed guns, men snatching at their side-arms, going down, rising or half rising,
firing as long as a charge was in a gun or strength in a body.  And as they fired and struck
and called out after the fashion of the cowboy in a scrimmage the body of men before them wavered
and broke and began to fall back.

Norton swung his clubbed empty rifle up in both hands and beat down a man firing at him with
a revolver.  All about him were struggling forms and he was sore beset now and then to know
who was who.  A fierce-mustachioed, black-browed man thrust a rifle toward his breast and pulled
the trigger and screamed out his curses as Norton put a revolver bullet through him.  A slender,
boyish form sprang up upon a rock recklessly, training his rifle upon Brocky Lane.  It was
the Kid. But the Kid had met a man quicker, surer, than himself, and Brocky fired first.  Kid
Rickard spun and fell.  Norton saw him drop but lost sight of him before the body struck the
earth.  He had found del Rio; del Rio had found him.

Two smoking revolvers were jerked up, two guns spoke through the clamor as one gun.  The men
were not ten feet apart as their guns spoke. Norton felt a bullet rip along his outer arm,
the sensation that of a whip-lash cutting deep.  He saw del Rio stagger back under the impact
of a forty-five-caliber bullet which must have merely grazed him, since it did not knock him
off his feet.  Del Rio, his lips streaming his curses and hatred, fired again.  But his wound
had been sorer than Norton's, his aim was less steady, and now as he gave back it was to fall
heavily and lie still.

It had lasted less than five minutes.  "It's Jim Galloway's fight and Galloway don't come!"
some one had shouted.  They broke again, gave back and back . . . and then were running, every
man of them scenting defeat and much worse than defeat unless he came to a horse before another
five minutes.  And after them, firing now as they ran, came Brocky's cowboys and Norton's men.

"They've got all of their horses over there together," yelled Brocky into Norton's ear.  "The
horses for those Ginneys who have been hiding out in the mountains, too.  That's why I cut
in between them that way. Now if we can only scatter their cayuses . . . why, Roddy, we'll
have every damned one of 'em afoot to be rounded up when we get ready!"

And Brocky, limping as he went, had raced along after the others.

But Norton did not follow.  His eyes had gone to the horses which he and the San Juan men had
left beyond the little line of boulders.  And, travelling that way, he had seen a lone horseman
far off to the south, a horseman riding frantically, seeking to come to the lower slopes of
Mt. Temple.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE BELLS RING

"Galloway!"

It seemed almost as though some great voice had shouted it to him through the din.  Yonder,
riding on his spurs, come at this late moment, was Jim Galloway.  The man responsible for all
of to-night's bloodshed, for the disappearance of Florrie, for the death of Billy Norton.

"Coming, Jim Galloway!"

Did he say it?  Or again was it a voice shouting to him, urging him on? He looked off to the
east.  Flying forms everywhere with other racing forms pursuing, firing as they ran.  Horses
jerking back, rearing, breaking away from the few men guarding them.  Full defeat for Jim Galloway
there.  But to the west?  Galloway coming on at top speed, shouting as he came, and, upon the
mountain's lower slope the others of Galloway's men, armed and bloodthirsty.  If Galloway came
to them, whipped them with his tongue, stirring them with his magnetism . . . why, then, the
fight was all to be fought over.

Now again Norton, too, was running, bearing down upon the straggling horses.  He caught up
the first dragging reins to lay his hand to, swung up into the saddle, measured swiftly the
distance between Galloway and the men on the mountain . . . and used his spurs.

On came Jim Galloway, his wide, heavy shoulders not to be mistaken in the rich moonlight, his
hat gone, his head up, a rifle across the saddle in front of him.  Norton lost sight of him
as he swept down into the bed of the arroyo, caught sight of him again from the farther side.
Already Galloway was appreciably nearer his men, driving his horse mercilessly.

"If he comes to his crowd before I can stop him," was Norton's thought, "he'll put his game
across on us yet.  I've got to head him off and take the chances."

Nor were the odds to be overlooked.  Galloway was still too far away to be stopped by a rifle-ball,
and Norton, heading him off, would expose himself not only to Galloway's fire but to that of
the men who were moving to a lower slope to meet their leader.  And yet, with fate in the balance,
here was no time for hesitation.

Now Galloway had seen him, had recognized him, perhaps, the thought coming naturally to him
that it would be Roderick Norton who rode to cut him off.  He shifted his rifle so that his
right hand was on the grip, the barrel caught in his left; he had dropped his horse's reins.
Norton was slipping a fresh clip into his gun, his own reins now upon his horse's neck.  And
now both men knew that unless a bullet stopped him Norton would cut across Galloway's path
before he could come to his men.

"At him, Roddy, old boy!  We're coming!"

Norton glanced over his shoulder and pressed on.  Brocky had missed him, had seen, had called
back a half dozen of his men and was following.  Well, if he dropped, maybe Brocky and the
others could get Jim Galloway.  It really began to look as though Galloway had played out his
string.

They were firing from the mountainside now, the bullets thus far flying wild of their rushing
target.  Norton shook his head and urged his horse to fresh endeavor.  In a moment he would
be fairly between Galloway and Galloway's last chance.  His eye picked out the spot where he
would dismount at that moment, a tumble of big boulders.  He would swing down so that they
would be between him and the mountain, so that nothing but moonlit open space lay between him
and Jim Galloway.

While rifles cracked and spat fire and sprayed lead over him and about him he rode the last
fifty yards.  He reached the boulders, set his horse up, threw himself from the saddle, and
with his back to the rock, his face toward Galloway, he lifted his rifle.  Galloway, almost
at the same instant, jerked in his own horse.  He was so close that Norton caught his cry of rage.

"Hands up, Galloway!" cried the sheriff.  "Hands up or I'll drop you."

But at last Galloway had come out into the open; at last there was no subterfuge to stand forth
at his need; at last, gambler that he was, he accepted the even break of man to man.  As Norton's
voice rang out Galloway fired.

He shot twice before Norton pulled the trigger.  Norton shot but the once.  Galloway dropped
his rifle, sat rigid a moment, toppled from the saddle.  And his men, seeing him go down, cried
out to one another and drew back into the mountain cañons.

"Funny thing," said Brocky Lane afterward.  "Had the picture of a kid of a girl in his pocket!
Must have carted it around for a year.  Old Roddy's bullet tore right square through it."

It was a picture of Florrie Engle, taken years before.  As Brocky said: "Just a kid of a girl."
Where he got it nobody knew.  But then there were other things about Jim Galloway which no
one knew.  Perhaps . . . Quien sabe!

During the late hours of the night and the following forenoon the thing was ended.  Sheriff
Roberts's deputies with a posse in automobiles had raced southward, intercepting those other
cars despatched toward the border by the Kid and del Rio.  Brocky Lane with a score of men
had swept down upon the stolen herds, scattered them, fired fifty shots, emptied some three
or four saddles, and sent the escaping rustlers flying toward the Mexican line.  Singly and
in small groups other men, farmers, cowboys, miners, and the dwellers of small settlements,
joined with Norton's men, giving battle to those of Galloway's crowd who had drawn back into
the fastnesses of Mt. Temple.  In the afternoon Norton, with the aid of a handful of cowboys
from Brocky's outfit and from Las Flores, escorted fifteen anxious-faced prisoners to the county-seat,
where jail capacity was to be taxed.  And night had come again, serene and peaceful with the
glory of the moon and stars, when he rode once more into San Juan, sore and saddle-weary.

At the hotel he learned that Virginia had gone to the Engles.  He left his jaded horse with
Ignacio and walked down the street. JULY 5th. "by Practice for what had the's, returning to Regensburg
[who gets approach you], i write she had to dream my misery. We have no lower more Mother. This loss
there puts a diadem. I am obliged to deed; and he have not time to my circumstances. Evaluate,
i will consider her, of what has the.'situation drawing give herself
of too be ashamed trial.

All stars in world there are cruel me have remedied; but sleep those further Ice antecedent beyond
limit of." JULY last. "do you are so had free; i am new floor are moved to abuse. But do, when
you will, try back without a necessities, what context of Uncertainty
they would not perform; one power to their ways.

Send that Mirabeau (CE. DE Hand) to France.


"Oh, thank God, thank God!" she cried softly.  "But . . . you are hurt?"

He forgot his wound as both arms closed about her.  From somewhere at the rear of the house
he heard Mrs. Engle's voice crying eagerly; "It's Roddy!"  She was hurrying to greet him. 
What he had to say must be said briefly.

"My work is done," he said quickly.  "I have put in my resignation this afternoon.  They can
get a new sheriff.  I am going to be a rancher, my dear.  And, Virginia . . ."

He was whispering to her, his lips close to her hair.  And Virginia, though her face was suddenly
hot with the flush mounting to her brow, gave him steadily for answer:

"Whenever you wish, Rod Norton!"

So it was only twenty-four hours later that Ignacio Chavez stood in the old Mission garden
and made his bells talk, just the three upon the western arch, the Little One, La Golondrina,
and Ignacio Chavez, the golden-throated trio that tinkled to the touch of his cunning hand
and seemed to laugh and sing and proclaim the gladdest of glad tidings. Then Ignacio drew his
enrapt gaze earthward from the full moon and made out a man and a girl riding out into the
night, riding toward the Ranch of the Flowers.  And he made the bells laugh again.

"And to-morrow," vowed Ignacio solemnly, "not later than to-morrow or the day thereafter, you
shall have your reward, amigos.  You have told the world of heavy doings; you have rung for
Jim Galloway dead; you have made the music for the wedding of el Señor Nortone.  And it shall
be I who will make a little roof like a house over you.  You will see!"

