IZAAK WALTON

THE COMPLEAT ANGLER

To the Right worshipful

John Offley

of Madeley Manor, in the County of Stafford Esquire, My most honoured Friend

Sir,-- I have made so ill use of your former favours, as by them to be encouraged to entreat,
that they may be enlarged to the patronage and protection of this Book: and I have put on a
modest confidence, that I shall not be denied, because it is a discourse of Fish and Fishing,
which you know so well, and both love and practice so much.

You are assured, though there be ignorant men of another belief, that Angling is an Art: and
you know that Art better than others; and that this is truth is demonstrated by the fruits
of that pleasant labour which you enjoy, when you purpose to give rest to your mind, and divest
yourself of your more serious business, and, which is often, dedicate a day or two to this
recreation.

At which time, if common Anglers should attend you, and be eyewitnesses of the success, not
of your fortune, but your skill, it would doubtless beget in them an emulation to be like you,
and that emulation might beget an industrious diligence to be so; but I know it is not attain
bye by common capacities: and there be now many men of great wisdom, learning, and experience,
which love and practice this Art, that know I speak the truth.

Sir, this pleasant curiosity of Fish and Fishing, of which you are so great a master, has been
thought worthy the pens and practices of divers in other nations, that have been reputed men
of great learning and wisdom. And amongst those of this nation, I remember Sir Henry Wotton,
a dear lover of this Art, has told me, that his intentions were to write a Discourse of the
Art, and in praise of Angling; and doubtless he had done so, if death had not prevented him;
the remembrance of which had often made me sorry, for if he had lived to do it, then the unlearned
Angler had seen some better treatise of this Art, a treatise that might have proved worthy
his perusal, which, though some have undertaken, I could never yet see in English.

But mine may be thought as weak, and as unworthy of common view; and I do here freely confess,
that I should rather excuse myself, than censure others, my own discourse being liable to so
many exceptions; against which you, Sir, might make this one, that it can contribute nothing
to YOUR knowledge. And lest a longer epistle may diminish your pleasure, I shall make this
no longer than to add this following truth, that I am really, Sir, your most affectionate Friend,
and most humble Servant,   

Iz. Wa.

The epistle to the reader

To all Readers of this discourse, but especially to the honest Angler

I think fit to tell thee these following truths; that I did neither undertake, nor write, nor
publish, and much less own, this Discourse to please myself: and, having been too easily drawn
to do all to please others, as I propose not the gaining of credit by this undertaking, so
I would not willingly lose any part of that to which I had a just title before I began it;
and do therefore desire and hope, if I deserve not commendations, yet I may obtain pardon.

And though this Discourse may be liable to some exceptions, yet I cannot doubt but that most
Readers may receive so much pleasure or profit by it, as may make it worthy the time of their
perusal, if they be not too grave or too busy men. And this is all the confidence that I can
put on, concerning the merit of what is here offered to their consideration and censure; and
if the last prove too severe, as I have a liberty, so I am resolved to use it, and neglect
all sour censures.

And I wish the Reader also to take notice, that in writing of it I have made myself a recreation
of a recreation; and that it might prove so to him, and not read dull and tediously, I have
in several places mixed, not any scurrility, but some innocent, harmless mirth, of which, if
thou be a severe, sour-complexioned man, then I here disallow thee to be a competent judge;
for divines say, there are offences given, and offences not given but taken.

And I am the willinger to justify the pleasant part of it, because though it is known I can
be serious at seasonable times, yet the whole Discourse is, or rather was, a picture of my
own disposition, especially in such days and times as I have laid aside business, and gone
a-fishing with honest Nat. and R. Roe; but they are gone, and with them most of my pleasant
hours, even as a shadow that passeth away and returns not.

And next let me add this, that he that likes not the book, should like the excellent picture
of the Trout, and some of the other fish, which I may take a liberty to commend, because they
concern not myself.

Next, let me tell the Reader, that in that which is the more useful part of this Discourse,
that is to say, the observations of the nature and breeding, and seasons, and catching of fish,
I am not so simple as not to know, that a captious reader may find exceptions against something
said of some of these; and therefore I must entreat him to con. eider, that experience teaches
us to know that several countries alter the time, and I think, almost the manner, of fishes'
breeding, but doubtless of their being in season; as may appear by three rivers in Monmouthshire,
namely, Severn, Wye, and Usk, where Camden observes, that in the river Wye, Salmon are in season
from September to April; and we are certain, that in Thames and Trent, and in most other rivers,
they be in season the six hotter months.

Now for the Art of catching fish, that is to say, How to make a man that was none to be an
Angler by a book, he that undertakes it shall undertake a harder task than Mr. Hales, a most
valiant and excellent fencer, who in a printed book called A Private School of Defence undertook
to teach that art or science, and was laughed at for his labour. Not but that many useful things
might be learned by that book, but he was laughed at because that art was not to be taught
by words, but practice: and so must Angling. And note also, that in this Discourse I do not
undertake to say all that is known, or may be said of it, but I undertake to acquaint the Reader
with many things that are not usually known to every Angler; and I shall leave gleanings and
observations enough to be made out of the experience of all that love and practice this recreation,
to which I shall encourage them. For Angling may be said to be so like the Mathematicks, that
it can never be fully learnt; at least not so fully, but that there will still be more new
experiments left for the trial of other men that succeed us.

But I think all that love this game may here learn something that may be worth their money,
if they be not poor and needy men: and in case they be, I then wish them to forbear to buy
it; for I write not to get money, but for pleasure, and this Discourse boasts of no more, for
I hate to promise much, and deceive the Reader.

And however it proves to him, yet I am sure I have found a high content in the search and conference
of what is here offered to the Reader's view and censure. I wish him as much in the perusal
of it, and so I might here take my leave; but will stay a little and tell him, that whereas
it is said by many, that in fly-fishing for a Trout, the Angler must observe his twelve several
flies for the twelve months of the year, I say, he that follows that rule, shall be as sure
to catch fish, and be as wise, as he that makes hay by the fair days in an Almanack, and no
surer; for those very flies that used to appear about, and on, the water in one month of the
year, may the following year come almost a month sooner or later, as the same year proves colder
or hotter: and yet, in the following Discourse, I have set down the twelve flies that are in
reputation with many anglers; and they may serve to give him some observations concerning them.
And he may note, that there are in Wales, and other countries, peculiar flies, proper to the
particular place or country; and doubtless, unless a man makes a fly to counterfeit that very
fly in that place, he is like to lose his labour, or much of it; but for the generality, three
or four flies neat and rightly made, and not too big, serve for a Trout in most rivers, all
the summer: and for winter fly- fishing it is as useful as an Almanack out of date. And of
these, because as no man is born an artist, so no man is born an Angler, I thought fit to give
thee this notice.

When I have told the reader, that in this fifth impression there are many enlargements, gathered
both by my own observation, and the communication with friends, I shall stay him no longer
than to wish him a rainy evening to read this following Discourse; and that if he be an honest
Angler, the east wind may never blow when he goes a- fishing.

I. W.

The first day

A Conference betwixt an Angler, a Falconer, and a Hunter, each commending his Recreation

Chapter I

Piscator, Venator, Auceps

Piscator. You are well overtaken, Gentlemen! A good morning to you both! I have stretched my
legs up Tottenham Hill to overtake you, hoping your business may occasion you towards Ware
whither I am going this fine fresh May morning.

Venator. Sir, I, for my part, shall almost answer your hopes; for my purpose is to drink my
morning's draught at the Thatched House in Hoddesden; and I think not to rest till I come thither,
where I have appointed a friend or two to meet me: but for this gentleman that you see with
me, I know not how far he intends his journey; he came so lately into my company, that I have
scarce had time to ask him the question.

Auceps. Sir, I shall by your favour bear you company as far as Theobalds, and there leave you;
for then I turn up to a friend's house, who mews a Hawk for me, which I now long to see.

Venator. Sir, we are all so happy as to have a fine, fresh, cool morning; and I hope we shall
each be the happier in the others' company. And, Gentlemen, that I may not lose yours, I shall
either abate or amend my pace to enjoy it, knowing that, as the Italians say, " Good company
in a journey makes the way to seem the shorter ".

Auceps. It may do so, Sir, with the help of good discourse, which, methinks, we may promise
from you, that both look and speak so cheerfully: and for my part, I promise you, as an invitation
to it, that I will be as free and open hearted as discretion will allow me to be with strangers.

Venator. And, Sir, I promise the like.

Piscator. I am right glad to hear your answers; and, in confidence you speak the truth, I shall
put on a boldness to ask you, Sir, whether business or pleasure caused you to be so early up,
and walk so fast ? for this other gentleman hath declared he is going to see a hawk, that a
friend mews for him

Venator. Sir, mine is a mixture of both, a little business and more pleasure; for I intend
this day to do all my business, and then bestow another day or two in hunting the Otter, which
a friend, that I go to meet, tells me is much pleasanter than any other chase whatsoever: howsoever,
I mean to try it; for to-morrow morning we shall meet a pack of Otter-dogs of noble Mr. Sadler's,
upon Amwell Hill, who will be there so early, that they intend to prevent the sunrising.

Piscator. Sir, my fortune has answered my desires, and my purpose is to bestow a day or two
in helping to destroy some of those villanous vermin: for I hate them perfectly, because they
love fish so well, or rather, because they destroy so much; indeed so much, that, in my judgment
all men that keep Otter-dogs ought to have pen" signs from the King, to encourage them to destroy
the very breed of those base Otters, they do so much mischief.

Venator. But what say you to the Foxes of the Nation, would not you as willingly have them
destroyed ? for doubtless they do as much mischief as Otters do.

Piscator. Oh, Sir, if they do, it is not so much to me and my fraternity, as those base vermin
the Otters do.

Auceps. Why, Sir, I pray, of what fraternity are you, that you are so angry with the poor Otters?

Piscator. I am, Sir, a Brother of the Angle, and therefore an enemy to the Otter: for you are
to note, that we Anglers all love one another, and therefore do I hate the Otter both for my
own, and their sakes who are of my brotherhood.

Venator. And I am a lover of Hounds; I have followed many a pack of dogs many a mile, and heard
many merry Huntsmen make sport and scoff at Anglers.

Auceps. And I profess myself a Falconer, and have heard many grave, serious men pity them,
it is such a heavy, contemptible, dull recreation.

Piscator. You know, Gentlemen, it is an easy thing to scoff at any art or recreation; a little
wit mixed with ill nature, confidence, and malice, will do it; but though they often venture
boldly, yet they are often caught, even in their own trap, according to that of Lucian, the
father of the family of Scoffers:

Lucian, well skilled in scoffing, this hath writ, Friend, that's your folly, which you think
your wit: This you vent oft, void both of wit and fear, Meaning another, when yourself you jeer.

If to this you add what Solomon says of Scoffers, that they are an abomination to mankind,
let him that thinks fit scoff on, and be a Scoffer still; but I account them enemies to me
and all that love Virtue and Angling.

And for you that have heard many grave, serious men pity Anglers; let me tell you, Sir, there
be many men that are by others taken to be serious and grave men, whom we contemn and pity
Men that are taken to be grave, because nature hath made them of a sour complexion; money-getting
men, men that spend all their time, first in getting, and next, in anxious care to keep it;
men that are condemned to be rich, and then always busy or discontented: for these poor rich-men,
we Anglers pity them perfectly, and stand in no need to borrow their thoughts to think ourselves
so happy. No, no, Sir, we enjoy a contentedness above the reach of such dispositions, and as
the learned and ingenuous Montaigne says, like himself, freely, " When my Cat and I entertain
each other with mutual apish tricks, as playing with a garter, who knows but that I make my
Cat more sport than she makes me? Shall I conclude her to be simple, that has her time to begin
or refuse, to play as freely as I myself have? Nay, who knows but that it is a defect of my
not understanding her language, for doubtless Cats talk and reason with one another, that we
agree no better: and who knows but that she pities me for being no wiser than to play with
her, and laughs and censures my folly, for making sport for her, when we two play together?"

Thus freely speaks Montaigne concerning Cats; and I hope I may take as great a liberty to blame
any man, and laugh at him too, let him be never so grave, that hath not heard what Anglers
can say in the justification of their Art and Recreation; which I may again tell you, is so
full of pleasure, that we need not borrow their thoughts, to think ourselves happy.

Venator. Sir, you have almost amazed me; for though I am no Scoffer, yet I have, I pray let
me speak it without offence, always looked upon Anglers, as more patient, and more simple men,
than I fear I shall find you to be.

Piscator. Sir, I hope you will not judge my earnestness to be impatience: and for my simplicity,
if by that you mean a harmlessness, or that simplicity which was usually found in the primitive
Christians, who were, as most Anglers are, quiet men, and followers of peace; men that were
so simply wise, as not to sell their consciences to buy riches, and with them vexation and
a fear to die; if you mean such simple men as lived in those times when there were fewer lawyers;
when men might have had a lordship safe]y conveyed to them in a piece of parchment no bigger
than your hand, though several sheets will not do it safely in this wiser age; I say, Sir,
if you take us Anglers to be such simple men as I have spoke of, then myself and those of my
profession will be glad to be so understood: But if by simplicity you meant to express a general
defect in those that profess and practice the excellent Art of Angling, I hope in time to disabuse
you, and make the contrary appear so evidently, that if you will but have patience to hear
me, I shall remove all the anticipations that discourse, or time, or prejudice, have possessed
you with against that laudable and ancient Art; for I know it is worthy the knowledge and practice
of a wise man.

But, Gentlemen, though I be able to do this, I am not so unmannerly as to engross all the discourse
to myself; and, therefore, you two having declared yourselves, the one to be a lover of Hawks,
the other of Hounds, I shall be most glad to hear what you can say in the commendation of that
recreation which each of you love and practice; and having heard what you can say, I shall
be glad to exercise your attention with what I can say concerning my own recreation and Art
of Angling, and by this means we shall make the way to seem the shorter: and if you like my
motion, I would have Mr. Falconer to begin.

Auceps. Your motion is consented to with all my heart; and to testify it, I will begin as you
have desired me.

And first, for the Element that I use to trade in, which is the Air, an element of more worth
than weight, an element that doubtless exceeds both the Earth and Water; for though I sometimes
deal in both, yet the air is most properly mine, I and my Hawks use that most, and it yields
us most recreation. It stops not the high soaring of my noble, generous Falcon; in it she ascends
to such a height as the dull eyes of beasts and fish are not able to reach to; their bodies
are too gross for such high elevations; in the Air my troops of Hawks soar up on high, and
when they are lost in the sight of men, then they attend upon and converse with the Gods; therefore
I think my Eagle is so justly styled Jove's servant in ordinary: and that very Falcon, that
I am now going to see, deserves no meaner a title, for she usually in her flight endangers
herself, like the son of Daedalus, to have her wings scorched by the sun's heat, she flies
so near it, but her mettle makes her careless of danger; for she then heeds nothing, but makes
her nimble pinions cut the fluid air, and so makes her highway over the steepest mountains
and deepest rivers, and in her glorious career looks with contempt upon those high steeples
and magnificent palaces which we adore and wonder at; from which height, I can make her to
descend by a word from my mouth, which she both knows and obeys, to accept of meat from my
hand. to own me for her Master, to go home with me, and be willing the next day to afford me
the like recreation.

And more; this element of air which I profess to trade in, the worth of it is such, and it
is of such necessity, that no creature whatsoever-not only those numerous creatures that feed
on the face of the earth, but those various creatures that have their dwelling within the waters,
every creature that hath life in its nostrils, stands in need of my element. The waters cannot
preserve the Fish without air, witness the not breaking of ice in an extreme frost; the reason
is, for that if the inspiring and expiring organ of any animal be stopped, it suddenly yields
to nature, and dies. Thus necessary is air, to the existence both of Fish and Beasts, nay,
even to Man himself; that air, or breath of life, with which God at first inspired mankind,
he, if he wants it, dies presently, becomes a sad object to all that loved and beheld him,
and in an instant turns to putrefaction.

Nay more; the very birds of the air, those that be not Hawks, are both so many and so useful
and pleasant to mankind, that I must not let them pass without some observations. They both
feed and refresh him; feed him with their choice bodies, and refresh him with their heavenly
voices:-I will not undertake to mention the several kinds of Fowl by which this is done: and
his curious palate pleased by day, and which with their very excrements afford him a soft lodging
at night:-These I will pass by, but not those little nimble musicians of the air, that warble
forth their curious ditties, with which nature hath furnished them to the shame of art.

As first the Lark, when she means to rejoice, to cheer herself and those that hear her; she
then quits the earth, and sings as she ascends higher into the air and having ended her heavenly
employment, grows then mute, and sad, to think she must descend to the dull earth, which she
would not touch, but for necessity.

How do the Blackbird and Thrassel with their melodious voices bid welcome to the cheerful Spring,
and in their fixed months warble forth such ditties as no art or instrument can reach to!

Nay, the smaller birds also do the like in their particular seasons, as namely the Laverock,
the Tit-lark, the little Linnet, and the honest Robin that loves mankind both alive and dead.

But the Nightingale, another of my airy creatures, breathes such sweet loud musick out of her
little instrumental throat, that it might make mankind to think miracles are not ceased. He
that at midnight, when the very labourer sleeps securely, should hear, as I have very often,
the clear airs, the sweet descants, the natural rising and falling, the doubling and redoubling
of her voice, might well be lifted above earth, and say, " Lord, what musick hast thou provided
for the Saints in Heaven, when thou affordest bad men such musick on Earth! "

And this makes me the less to wonder at the many Aviaries in Italy, or at the great charge
of Varro's Aviary, the ruins of which are yet to be seen in Rome, and is still so famous there,
that it is reckoned for one of those notables which men of foreign nations either record, or
lay up in their memories when they return from travel.

This for the birds of pleasure, of which very much more might be said. My next shall be of
birds of political use. I think it is not to be doubted that Swallows have been taught to carry
letters between two armies; but 'tis certain that when the Turks besieged Malta or Rhodes,
I now remember not which it was, Pigeons are then related to carry and recarry letters: and
Mr. G. Sandys, in his Travels, relates it to be done betwixt Aleppo and Babylon, But if that
be disbelieved, it is not to be doubted that the Dove was sent out of the ark by Noah, to give
him notice of land, when to him all appeared to be sea; and the Dove proved a faithful and
comfortable messenger. And for the sacrifices of the law, a pair of Turtle-doves, or young
Pigeons, were as well accepted as costly Bulls and Rams; and when God would feed the Prophet
Elijah, after a kind of miraculous manner, he did it by Ravens, who brought him meat morning
and evening. Lastly, the Holy Ghost, when he descended visibly upon our Saviour, did it by
assuming the shape of a Dove. And, to conclude this part of my discourse, pray remember these
wonders were done by birds of air, the element in which they, and I, take so much pleasure.

There is also a little contemptible winged creature, an inhabitant of my aerial element, namely
the laborious Bee, of whose prudence, policy, and regular government of their own commonwealth,
I might say much, as also of their several kinds, and how useful their honey and wax are both
for meat and medicines to mankind; but I will leave them to their sweet labour, without the
least disturbance, believing them to be all very busy at this very time amongst the herbs and
flowers that we see nature puts forth this May morning.

And now to return to my Hawks, from whom I have made too long a digression. You are to note,
that they are usually distinguished into two kinds; namely, the long-winged, and the short-winged
Hawk: of the first kind, there be chiefly in use amongst us in this nation,

The Gerfalcon and Jerkin, The Falcon and Tassel-gentle, The Laner and Laneret, The Bockerel
and Bockeret, The Saker and Sacaret, The Merlin and Jack Merlin, The Hobby and Jack: There
is the Stelletto of Spain, The Blood-red Rook from Turkey, The Waskite from Virginia: And there
is of short-winged Hawks, The Eagle and Iron The Goshawk and Tarcel, The Sparhawk and Musket,
The French Pye of two sorts:

These are reckoned Hawks of note and worth; but we have also of an inferior rank,

The Stanyel, the Ringtail, The Raven, the Buzzard, The Forked Kite, the Bald Buzzard,

The Hen-driver, and others that I forbear to name.

Gentlemen, if I should enlarge my discourse to the observation of the Eires, the Brancher,
the Ramish Hawk, the Haggard, and the two sorts of Lentners, and then treat of their several
Ayries, their Mewings, rare order of casting, and the renovation of their feathers: their reclaiming,
dieting, and then come to their rare stories of practice; I say, if I should enter into these,
and many other observations that I could make, it would be much, very much pleasure to me:
but lest I should break the rules of civility with you, by taking up more than the proportion
of time allotted to me, I will here break off, and entreat you, Mr. Venator, to say what you
are able in the commendation of Hunting, to which you are so much affected; and if time will
serve, I will beg your favour for a further enlargement of some of those several heads of which
I have spoken. But no more at present.

Venator. Well, Sir, and I will now take my turn, and will first begin with a commendation of
the Earth, as you have done most excellently of the Air; the Earth being that element upon
which I drive my pleasant, wholesome, hungry trade. The Earth is a solid, settled element;
an element most universally beneficial both to man and beast; to men who have their several
recreations upon it, as horse-races, hunting, sweet smells, pleasant walks: the earth feeds
man, and all those several beasts that both feed him, and afford him recreation. What pleasure
doth man take in hunting the stately Stag, the generous Buck, the wild Boar, the cunning Otter,
the crafty Fox, and the fearful Hare ! And if I may descend to a lower game, what pleasure
is it sometimes with gins to betray the very vermin of the earth; as namely, the Fichat, the
Fulimart, the Ferret, the Pole-cat, the Mouldwarp, and the like creatures that live upon the
face, and within the bowels of, the Earth. How doth the Earth bring forth herbs, flowers, and
fruits, both for physick and the pleasure of mankind! and above all, to me at least, the fruitful
vine, of which when I drink moderately, it clears my brain, cheers my heart, and sharpens my
wit. How could Cleopatra have feasted Mark Antony with eight wild Boars roasted whole at one
supper, and other meat suitable, if the earth had not been a bountiful mother ? But to pass
by the mighty Elephant, which the Earth breeds and nourisheth, and descend to the least of
creatures, how doth the earth afford us a doctrinal example in the little Pismire, who in the
summer provides and lays up her winter provision, and teaches man to do the like! The earth
feeds and carries those horses that carry us. If I would be prodigal of my time and your patience,
what might not I say in commendations of the earth? That puts limits to the proud and raging
sea, and by that means preserves both man and beast, that it destroys them not, as we see it
daily doth those that venture upon the sea, and are there shipwrecked, drowned, and left to
feed Haddocks; when we that are so wise as to keep ourselves on earth, walk, and talk, and
live, and eat, and drink, and go a hunting: of which recreation I will say a little, and then
leave Mr. Piscator to the commendation of Angling.

Hunting is a game for princes and noble persons; it hath been highly prized in all ages; it
was one of the qualifications that Xenophon bestowed on his Cyrus, that he was a hunter of
wild beasts. Hunting trains up the younger nobility to the use of manly exercises in their
riper age. What more manly exercise than hunting the Wild Boar, the Stag, the Buck, the Fox,
or the Hare ? How doth it preserve health, and increase strength and activity !

And for the dogs that we use, who can commend their excellency to that height which they deserve
? How perfect is the hound at smelling, who never leaves or forsakes his first scent, but follows
it through so many changes and varieties of other scents, even over, and in, the water, and
into the earth! What music doth a pack of dogs then make to any man, whose heart and ears are
so happy as to be set to the tune of such instruments! How will a right Greyhound fix his eye
on the best Buck in a herd, single him out, and follow him, and him only, through a whole herd
of rascal game, and still know and then kill him! For my hounds, I know the language of them,
and they know the language and meaning of one another, as perfectly as we know the voices of
those with whom we discourse daily.

I might enlarge myself in the commendation of Hunting, and of the noble Hound especially, as
also of the docibleness of dogs in general; and I might make many observations of land-creatures,
that for composition, order, figure, and constitution, approach nearest to the completeness
and understanding of man; especially of those creatures, which Moses in the Law permitted to
the Jews, which have cloven hoofs, and chew the cud; which I shall forbear to name, because
I will not be so uncivil to Mr. Piscator, as not to allow him a time for the commendation of
Angling, which he calls an art; but doubtless it is an easy one: and, Mr. Auceps, I doubt we
shall hear a watery discourse of it, but I hope it will not be a long one.

Auceps. And I hope so too, though I fear it will.

Piscator. Gentlemen, let not prejudice prepossess you. I confess my discourse is like to prove
suitable to my recreation, calm and quiet; we seldom take the name of God into our mouths,
but it is either to praise him, or pray to him: if others use it vainly in the midst of their
recreations, so vainly as if they meant to conjure, I must tell you, it is neither our fault
nor our custom; we protest against it. But, pray remember, I accuse nobody; for as I would
not make a " watery discourse," so I would not put too much vinegar into it; nor would I raise
the reputation of my own art, by the diminution or ruin of another's. And so much for the prologue
to what I mean to say.

And now for the Water, the element that I trade in. The water is the eldest daughter of the
creation, the element upon which the Spirit of God did first move, the element which God commanded
to bring forth living creatures abundantly; and without which, those that inhabit the land,
even all creatures that have breath in their nostrils, must suddenly return to putrefaction.
Moses, the great lawgiver and chief philosopher, skilled in all the learning of the Egyptians,
who was called the friend of God, and knew the mind of the Almighty, names this element the
first in the creation: this is the element upon which the Spirit of God did first move, and
is the chief ingredient in the creation: many philosophers have made it to comprehend all the
other elements, and most allow it the chiefest in the mixtion of all living creatures.

There be that profess to believe that all bodies are made of water, and may be reduced back
again to water only; they endeavour to demonstrate it thus:

Take a willow, or any like speedy growing plant newly rooted in a box or barrel full of earth,
weigh them all together exactly when the tree begins to grow, and then weigh all together after
the tree is increased from its first rooting, to weigh a hundred pound weight more than when
it was first rooted and weighed; and you shall find this augment of the tree to be without
the diminution of one drachm weight of the earth. Hence they infer this increase of wood to
be from water of rain, or from dew, and not to be from any other element; and they affirm,
they can reduce this wood back again to water; and they affirm also, the same may be done in
any animal or vegetable. And this I take to be a fair testimony of the excellency of my clement
of water.

The water is more productive than the earth. Nay, the earth hath no fruitfulness without showers
or dews; for all the herbs, and flowers, and fruit, are produced and thrive by the water; and
the very minerals are fed by streams that run under ground, whose natural course carries them
to the tops of many high mountains, as we see by several springs breaking forth on the tops
of the highest hills; and this is also witnessed by the daily trial and testimony of several
miners.

Nay, the increase of those creatures that are bred and fed in the water are not only more and
more miraculous, but more advantageous to man, not only for the lengthening of his life, but
for the preventing of sickness; for it is observed by the most learned physicians, that the
casting off of Lent, and other fish days, which hath not only given the lie to so many learned,
pious, wise founders of colleges, for which we should be ashamed, hath doubtless been the chief
cause of those many putrid, shaking intermitting agues, unto which this nation of ours is now
more subject, than those wiser countries that feed on herbs, salads, and plenty of fish; of
which it is observed in story, that the greatest part of the world now do. And it may be fit
to remember that Moses appointed fish to be the chief diet for the best commonwealth that ever
yet was.

And it is observable, not only that there are fish, as namely the Whale, three times as big
as the mighty Elephant, that is so fierce in battle, but that the mightiest feasts have been
of fish. The Romans, in the height of their glory, have made fish the mistress of all their
entertainments; they have had musick to usher in their Sturgeons, Lampreys, and Mullets, which
they would purchase at rates rather to be wondered at than believed. He that shall view the
writings of Macrobius, or Varro, may be confirmed and informed of this, and of the incredible
value of their fish and fish-ponds.

But, Gentlemen, I have almost lost myself, which I confess I may easily do in this philosophical
discourse; I met with most of it very lately, and, I hope, happily, in a conference with a
most learned physician, Dr. Wharton, a dear friend, that loves both me and my art of Angling.
But, however, I will wade no deeper into these mysterious arguments, but pass to such observations
as I can manage with more pleasure, and less fear of running into error. But I must not yet
forsake the waters, by whose help we have so many known advantages.

And first, to pass by the miraculous cures of our known baths, how advantageous is the sea
for our daily traffick, without which we could not now subsist. How does it not only furnish
us with food and physick for the bodies, but with such observations for the mind as ingenious
persons would not want! Did not
is this enough reward for our efforts? If we have not been possible, if we must also be possible
to reach to achieve happiness, we think that this award will certainly of a later generation:
ours we have now, we did it!

Are we not happy in this? Let everything be fit to be in the future; and if we lose the hope
of being ourselves, we do everything possible what are our children. What better reward for
the efforts of our elders, for final effort we made? Live, therefore, convinced that idea live
perfectly attuned to the generation that preceded us was much more unfortunate, sacrificed much more than
ours. Fought longer than we have. Those who are made up completely ruined, being rich, suffered
terribly, having been born happy, and through the force of human strength, half the road of
life, sadly bled and died, and had no offset we've had, to see waving on the soil of his homeland's
flag their hopes and their dreams!

If we get it, if we could finally do it and make it a reality, why Why ask for more? I've always
said this to myself, and I have not really asked for much more. I, yes, that the right man for
pointing out to his countrymen the shortcomings of this in which they live is good and healthy,
but must do so calmly and without anger, provided heir duty of such heritage with determination
and energy, but never despair; understanding that evil is human and it can not ever untie humanity.
Because should be borne in mind that the man, considered collectively, progressing only very slowly
and advances in a manner analogous to that used to meet your vote for a French count that in the Middle
Ages, took the oath of marching to the Holy Land to walk four steps forward and three reverse
speeds, so that walking seven steps ahead just one. No faster progress of humanity. On the contrary,
I think up even more slowly; but forward to the end and that's all we can ask the Destination.
So tomorrow will certainly better than this, and we will have been worthy successors of our cause
if we live considering the current state of affairs is not as definitive, it must satisfy, but as something
temporary that we need to improve. If you believe that the political conditions this is not good,
we understand that whatever we deem them to be bad something changed and improved, and each
one from their point of view, as currently finalizing fit personal interest with the collective interest,
do everything you can to get that improvement.

In sum, if passengers of the present moment, we have at least the
ideal aspiration of considering definitive citizens of a city more
perfect, which is yet to be found, and work to found it, what will
prevent us from being happier, as a reward for that effort in the
future?

And so could conclude these reflections with I've entertained your attention, repeating but rather to
alter its meaning, a phrase that is contained in the Epistle of Paul to the Hebrews: "We have
here indeed a permanent residence, permanent, is a future residence, a future city, which we
seek. " 'Non hic manentem habemus civitatem 2, inquirimus futuram thirst! ".

Marti, Federico Uhrbach

Le Figaro, November 30, 1910

Marti

At his marble

Manuel Sanguily,
big heart and mind.

                  

                                      

                            Alma, shield with the shield miracle of rhyme pain and despair that
bloom in your pit when sadness evokes the vision of the war, fruitful
and vigorous bud break the dream with the dazzling glory of the daring
and heroic effort 5 and the fleeting glare of the tragic legend.

                      

             Yes in the fog of memory lasts wistful desolate
          memory on a flight of bitterness reconstructs the
          bloody bloom in your grief, does not disturb you cry
          endless stream 10 the chant of immeasurable toll
          rising of the country, in the pious candid grace of a flight.

If
          the sediment inextinto painful the struggle deceptive illusions simulating
sweet surrender pretend, soul, make your misery consolations, 15 claim
yields the peaceful sacred truce, the sad brooding on the tragedy
of your tears, and assists your wreath to pay homage to exalt consecrations.

How

             radiant in the distant perspective of the past, as
          a lamp that emerges from a cloudy waves 20 stands
          in the pale light of dusk, the figure of the seer Apostolic
          Messenger of love and justice, with his face star and the spell
          of his genius that chains and that dazzles!
          

             Of glory to the romantic silhouette flashes 25
          the believer that his lyricism of a poet Aduna
          with the living flame of tragic lyricism, shines like a star
          that lights the souls with the fire miracle of biblical
          doctrine, as a ray of dawn transparentations the
          abyss. 30

             
          Dreamer sublime rare breed of dreamers pursuing the long awaited
          redemption of the pain, fosca inheritance
          and sterile unhappy beings, was immaculate
          fruitful life lessons, in hopes to encourage maturity
          sad 35 and the plodding struggle to heal the scars.

             
          Prisoner lost in the shadow the dawn of life, exile
          in the unknown region beach began his ministry
          tamed adversity to temper the soul rebels blow
          drunkenness 40 caught the sun dispel the deep
          gloom who opposed his efforts to the human whirlwind.

             
          Stays tremulous cadence of his poems saved balms and
          honey, not the fierce anathemas steely spears forged
          into the fabric of his verse, 45 and in the range
          of his verse melancholy and flexible there, if it hurts, a
          sweet indefinable beg for forgiveness, and a suffering and loving
spirit if apostrophe.

             
          
          A tireless pilgrim wandering long journey was
          carried by his bold pilgrimage route 50 in the saddlebag of
          his dreams the pain of climate climate her pain was an
          incentive, nostalgic voice of encouragement, windup, transfigured,
his prophetic lament Bren in the pampas and snow from the top.

             
          
          With its persuasive influence of missionary zeal, 55 announced
          the good news lavishing on the path His grace light
          blooms early bird, and simulated in the greatness of
          his immense symbolism a radiant Nazareno of exalted enlightenment
Jordan provident and a new preaching on the banks.

             60
          
          In your voice to the soft charm of subtle inflections piety
          stroked the wounded hearts Lit as a tremolo, tremolo
          as auroras, and outer glow that radiated in clairvoyance,
          flashed as the star that guided the consciences 65 lustral the banks
of the redemptive anger.

             
          
          Champion of a glorious crusade knights who served
          the country with the cross of steel, ofreciose in
          Holocaust as a symbol and proclamation and
          fell like a lightning tower treacherous haunts, 70 reflected in the
pupil's vision of tragedy and setting a meteor Zodiac fame.

             
          
          "Martí, his life and his work"
          
          by Nestor Carbonell
          

             Pronounced sentence on February 23, 1911 at the
          Ateneo de La Habana
          
          Ladies and gentlemen, and my good friends and good companions,
          Jesus Castellanos and Max Henríquez Ureña, enthusiastic
          organizers of these beautiful LIDES of thought, I had the honor to
invite me to consume a turn in them, I consulted the mind, and I found
no issue I subdue: consulté then the heart, and found, José Martí.

                   With this beloved flag name and shield, climb the podium.

                      But I do not come here and judge to judge his personality, not as
critical letter analyzing his work spread through the air after the
trial that lowering it or exalted.

That is not my purpose: to be as difficult as thankless task, for
those who have more ambitious than mine and less fear of his knowledge
and his person.

I come here, without further authority cleaner than the loving heart of the sublime, to recall,
albeit briefly, meritorious and glorious life, life filled with infinite tenderness and bloody
martyrdoms that huge dreamy melancholy knight of all the justices, who suffered for their
country to over the years of its existence, the man can suffer, and he fell from his steed war,
never to rise again, like a poem Achilles, the tragic beauty of combat as a simple soldier fighting
for freedom, in a bright May afternoon .... I come here to remember its doctrines, its beautiful
and magnificent ideal: the Republic and for all good of all, the Republic of "eyes open" and
no secrets, the Republic equitable and hardworking wide and generous, altar of their children and
do not stand them, the Republic whose first law except love and mutual respect for all human
rights, the Republic cultured with books to learn the side of the table to win the bread, with
its temple edged Republic heroes, the Republic no cliques, no mysteries and no slander, the Republic!
and not stewardship frightened or dismal finances irritating privileges and monopolies, the
Republic real and fair was an event where the recognition and practice of true freedom. I come here
today to grow in our soil the sick manzanillo pessimism, and that would seem to be rotting
and crumbling at times the national soul, to remember him sacred, and to evoke, to ask you
all - and in you all my fellow citizens - policy less treacherous, less subtle intrigue, less ambitious,
less complicated, less ambush dark: and more pity for the faults and offenses, and more respect
for all provisions constitutional, and more honesty to reject those who are able to invite
disgrace and crime, and more purely to defend the principles patriotic and more willing to not
rub with the vile, and more courage to take them by the neck and put them where the sun will
burn and destroy them .... I come here to pay tribute unhappy in my words, the famous writer, sincere
poet, the speaker wonderful, tender and sound man, great and good, which aroused in my soul, and with
the unique harmonies of Joyant prose, the melodious trills of his verses, and the triumphal
hymn pitonisaria voice, the unquenchable love Freedom and the Beauty, the man whose head is hollow,
and whose lips are silent, as hand is already broken, the apostle and the martyr that rests
forever in the eternal pillow and in the immortal silence .... I come here at last, trembling and
awe, and grateful son and loving, to offer up my poor flowers, my flowers faded and no perfume,
my poor flowers perhaps treacherous hands snatch and tear you, considering the pain that some
Live provides the glorification of those dead whose virtues do not know, or do not want imitate
.... Yes, it is a sad thing, but the fact is, anyone who possesses a quality extraordinary,
unfortunate, no more than that, which has no: there is either one that is not bring the sadness of
another, not pay homage to a dead man who is not accompanied by malignant malignant tears or smiles.
The world is full of people who suffer with all others and win want to go through it with a stick
breaking down as they excel, and parasitic people they laugh at everything you do not understand.
But ... contempt for them envious and disdainful of office, his human pity so cruelly undercut
wrappers! Although, who knows are larger so the great land, those who have gone without bending
the knees around the world. They are foam splashing the boat and the wave that carries insurance
port, the cloud that hides the star and the shade that brings out, the dagger wounds and poisoning
and hand it sells and restores, the feeble joke that cuts and resonant ode uplifting and dignified,
the crowd that complains and flat and the people that crown and rewards, the worms that destroy
the body and flowers that grow on the graves. They are the consecration, no glory complete
without the kiss of a beautiful and without the bite of an evil no one can be called if not
downright triumphant landing on its way women face looks tender and cruel and sarcastic eyes of
men ... Ah! who give my words the strength of eagles or s wild bronco, to preach to them in
spite of sharp teeth and crawling whistles, and not by the unhappy island, but under all the
roofs of the world, the genius and the goodness of the Divine Master. But my words, weak butterflies,
just when your flight will reach you, and barely able to express the supernatural disorder
that has gripped me since I know, because I promised it is my duty to recall his life of sacrifice
and forgiveness, remembering their doctrines suffused with faith and love, say something that
is original literature and poetry, to pay my tribute admiration and deep affection the man without
blemish, although ugliness and impurities of land, gentle and kind, it is today, after fifteen
long years of missing, serene and delightful light in my brain, tenderness and kindness and wings
on my heart ... His life! What overwhelmed thinking may follow in his career of glory and pain?
Can the word human, smoke and shell, and clothing many times of the lowest passions, report such
greatness as contained in his life? José Martí was born in humble beginnings in Havana on January
28, 1853, in the house marked with No. 102 of Paula Street. Born in full colonial corruption,
Cuba as a martyr, dump all the rotten, the refuge of all the hindrances, of all the hungry and
jobless in Spain, when it was our land, farm vicious militia and sickly, stolen from the Agriculture
and Industry in his country, when was this city, kids in America today, corral loose soft and Captain
General of infertile, profiteers and imperative, when the red and yellow flag floated over
our house and its shadow Cubans were sentenced to life imprisonment and the Spanish cowardice
allowed to enrich and fatten their vices insolent when he died in poverty criollo and peninsular
walking satisfied in the carriage purchased with gold flowing from the crime, when there were more
prisons that schools, and the infamous whip snapped on the backs of men of one race so in
need of justice such as ours, when the Cuban did not submit to serve celestino the Madrid dandy who wanted
it, was serving his boldness in prison; when the native talent of the cast slept under the
boot of the tyrant frown, and the layer bullfighter on the shoulders and the rubber band on the
hat were the only passports of honor and the only cards of life, true. Martí was born then. It was
his father, Don Mariano, Spanish, and met Army sergeant and his mother, Dona Leonor Perez, daughter
of the Canaries. Saturday February 12 the same year he was born, was baptized in the church
of Santo Angel Custodio by Father Thomas Hall and Don Figueroa. Marti birth his father held
the position Police Celador, or whatever it is, had title to kill or imprison those who believe
not faithful to the motherland. But Don Mariano was an honest man but low intelligence and rude
and overbearing ways. When Marti was a year old, what taken to Spain where his parents were visiting
relatives. About ten months were Valencia, after which they returned to Havana, continuing performance
Mariano its former destination. Parents, therefore, Martí, Spanish, he was educated in the love
of Spain and absolute submission to his government. And the most ardent desire was to see them
one day to his "Pepe" - so called - the same task used in the old police. But while the man is
not the world made, but mold is made and the heat of events, Marti, a rebel from the child to
stop and detention, it was like those vigorous oaks raising his glass robust despite the vines
that wrap and worms chew on. Marti was a true genius, and geniuses like volcanoes bring her
womb made: weave themselves love and purifies the building. King was born as born a slave, but who
was born not realize it until it commands and is obeyed, or until no send him and obey. Martí,
said she brought the birth of the infinite understanding of the future. It performed a miracle:
a pigeon's egg was born an eagle rose garden in the rough lily perfume ....

In a neighborhood school, which he had forgotten he could not because his teacher owed more
than their ears were separated from the side that usually, he learned early letters. This came
out at age nine for college "San Anacleto ', which was then addressed in this capital the
cult educator Rafael Sixto Casado. It was in this school where began to stand, the first in
class and winning all the awards, which began to show that air was not what he had in his head but thought
and action. That his children, studious, Fermín Valdés Domínguez had and still has Dr. Eduardo F. Plá,
his fellow students in the classroom happy happy, amazing features and intelligence character.
And it was from that school where his father, believing it took quite some illustrated to employ
a clerk in the guardhouse. And perhaps if it had been buried there and spoiled the great man,
if Arazoza Francisco, a good friend of Don Mariano, behind of this, would not have given money
to enroll in the Secondary School, and they have been encouraged to continue their studies. They
took them to leave, however, months later harassed by the author of his day did not consider
it necessary to perform employment, or to bid for Celador, know more of what he already knew.


And to parallel this land-rarity, and teach mankind moral faithfulness, and to condemn those
that talk of religion, and yet come short of the moral faith of fish and fowl, men that violate
the law affirmed by St. Paul to be writ in their hearts, and which, he says, shall at the Last
Day condemn and leave them without excuse--I pray hearken to what Du Bartas sings, for the
hearing of such conjugal faithfulness will be musick to all chaste ears, and therefore I pray
hearken to what Du Bartas sings of the Mullet.

But for chaste love the Mullet hath no peer; For, if the fisher hath surpris'd her pheer As
mad with wo, to shore she followeth Prest to consort him, both in life and death.

On the contrary, what shall I say of the House-Cock, which treads any hen; and, then, contrary
to the Swan, the Partridge, and Pigeon, takes no care to hatch, to feed, or cherish his own
brood, but is senseless, though they perish. And it is considerable, that the Hen, which, because
she also takes any Cock, expects it not, who is sure the chickens be her own, hath by a moral
impression her care and affection to her own brood more than doubled, even to such a height,
that our Saviour, in expressing his love to Jerusalem, quotes her, for an example of tender
affection, as his Father had done Job, for a pattern of patience.

And to parallel this Cock, there be divers fishes that cast their spawn on flags or stones,
and then leave it uncovered, and exposed to become a prey and be devoured by vermin or other
fishes. But other fishes, as namely the Barbel, take such care for the preservation of their
seed, that, unlike to the Cock, or the Cuckoo, they mutually labour, both the spawner and the
melter, to cover their spawn with sand, or watch it, or hide it in some secret place unfrequented
by vermin or by any fish but themselves.

Sir, these examples may, to you and others, seem strange; but they are testified, some by Aristotle,
some by Pliny, some by Gesner, and by many others of credit; and are believed and known by
divers, both of wisdom and experience, to be a truth; and indeed are, as I said at the beginning,
fit for the contemplation of a most serious and a most pious man. And, doubtless, this made
the prophet David say, " They that occupy themselves in deep waters, see the wonderful works
of God ": indeed such wonders and pleasures too, as the land affords not.

And that they be fit for the contemplation of the most prudent, and pious, and peaceable men,
seems to be testified by the practice of so many devout and contemplative men, as the Patriarchs
and Prophets of old; and of the Apostles of our Saviour in our latter times, of which twelve,
we are sure, he chose four that were simple fishermen, whom he inspired, and sent to publish
his blessed will to the Gentiles ; and inspired them also with a power to speak all languages,
and by their powerful eloquence to beget faith in the unbelieving Jews; and themselves to suffer
for that Saviour, whom their forefathers and they had crucified; and, in their sufferings,
to preach freedom from the incumbrances of the law, and a new way to everlasting life: this
was the employment of these happy fishermen. Concerning which choice. some have made these
observations:

First, that he never reproved these, for their employment or calling, as he did the Scribes
and the Money-changers. And secondly, he found that the hearts of such men, by nature, were
fitted for contemplation and quietness; men of mild, and sweet, and peaceable spirits, as indeed
most Anglers are: these men our blessed Saviour, who is observed to love to plant grace in
good natures, though indeed nothing be too hard for him, yet these men he chose to call from
their irreprovable employment of fig, an, and gave them grace to be his disciples, and to follow
him, and do wonders; I say four of twelve.

And it is observable, that it was our Saviour's will that these, our four fishermen, should
have a priority of nomination in the catalogue of his twelve Apostles, as namely, first St.
Peter, St. Andrew, St. James, and St. John; and, then, the rest in their order.

And it is yet more observable, that when our blessed Saviour went up into the mount, when he
left the rest of his disciples, and chose only three to bear him company at his Transfiguration,
that those three were all fishermen. And it is to be believed, that all the other Apostles,
after they betook themselves to follow Christ, betook themselves to be fishermen too; for it
is certain, that the greater number of them were found together, fishing, by Jesus after his
resurrection, as it is recorded in the twenty-first chapter of St. John's gospel.

And since I have your promise to hear me with patience, I will take a liberty to look back
upon an observation that hath been made by an ingenious and learned man; who observes, that
God hath been pleased to allow those whom he himself hath appointed to write his holy will
in holy writ, yet to express his will in such metaphors as their former affections or practice
had inclined them to. And he brings Solomon for an example, who, before his conversion, was
remarkably carnally amorous; and after, by God's appointment, wrote that spiritual dialogue,
or holy amorous love-song the Canticles, betwixt God and his church: in which he says, " his
beloved had eyes like the fish-pools of Heshbon ".

And if this hold in reason, as I see none to the contrary, then it may be probably concluded,
that Moses, who I told you before writ the book of Job, and the Prophet Amos, who was a shepherd,
were both Anglers; for you shall, in all the Old Testament, find fish-hooks, I think but twice
mentioned, namely, by meek Moses the friend of God, and by the humble prophet Amos.

Concerning which last, namely the prophet Amos, I shall make but this observation, that he
that shall read the humble, lowly, plain style of that prophet, and compare it with the high,
glorious, eloquent style of the prophet Isaiah, though they be both equally true, may easily
believe Amos to be, not only a shepherd, but a good-natured plain fisherman. Which I do the
rather believe, by comparing the affectionate, loving, lowly, humble Epistles of St. Peter,
St. James, and St. John, whom we know were all fishers, with the glorious language and high
metaphors of St. Paul, who we may believe was not.

And for the lawfulness of fishing: it may very well be maintained by our Saviour's bidding
St. Peter cast his hook into the water and catch a fish, for money to pay tribute to Caesar.
And let me tell you, that Angling is of high esteem, and of much use in other nations. He that
reads the Voyages of Ferdinand Mendez Pinto, shall find that there he declares to have found
a king and several priests a-fishing. And he that reads Plutarch, shall find, that Angling
was not contemptible in the days of Mark Antony and Cleopatra, and that they, in the midst
of their wonderful glory, used Angling as a principal recreation. And let me tell you, that
in the Scripture, Angling is always taken in the best sense; and that though hunting may be
sometimes so taken, yet it is but seldom to be so understood. And let me add this more: he
that views the ancient Ecclesiastical Canons, shall find hunting to be forbidden to Churchmen,
as being a turbulent, toilsome, perplexing recreation; and shall find Angling allowed to clergymen,
as being a harmless recreation, a recreation that invites them to contemplation and quietness.

I might here enlarge myself, by telling you what commendations our learned Perkins bestows
on Angling: and how dear a lover, and great a practiser of it, our learned Dr. Whitaker was;
as indeed many others of great learning have been. But I will content myself with two memorable
men, that lived near to our own time, whom I also take to have been ornaments to the art of
Angling.

The first is Dr. Nowel, sometime dean of the cathedral church of St. Paul, in London, where
his monument stands yet undefaced; a man that, in the reformation of Queen Elizabeth, not that
of Henry VIII., was so noted for his meek spirit, deep learning, prudence, and piety, that
the then Parliament and Convocation, both, chose, enjoined, and trusted him to be the man to
make a Catechism for public use, such a one as should stand as a rule for faith and manners
to their posterity. And the good old man, though he was very learned, yet knowing that God
leads us not to heaven by many, nor by hard questions, like an honest Angler, made that good,
plain, unperplexed Catechism which is printed with our good old Service-book. I say, this good
man was a dear lover and constant practiser of Angling, as any age can produce: and his custom
was to spend besides his fixed hours of prayer, those hours which, by command of the church,
were enjoined the clergy, and voluntarily dedicated to devotion by many primitive Christians,
I say, besides those hours, this good man was observed to spend a tenth part of his time in
Angling; and, also, for I have conversed with those which have conversed with him, to bestow
a tenth part of his revenue, and usually all his fish, amongst the poor that inhabited near
to those rivers in which it was caught; saying often, "that charity gave life to religion ":
and, at his return to his house, would praise God he had spent that day free from worldly trouble;
both harmlessly, and in a recreation that became a churchman. And this good man was well content,
if not desirous, that posterity should know he was an Angler; as may appear by his picture,
now to be seen, and carefully kept, in Brazen-nose College, to which he was a liberal benefactor.
In which picture he is drawn leaning on a desk, with his Bible before him; and on one hand
of him, his lines, hooks, and other tackling, lying in a round; and, on his other hand, are
his Angle-rods of several sorts; and by them this is written, "that he died 13 Feb. 1601, being
aged ninety-five years, forty- four of which he had been Dean of St. Paul's church, and that
his age neither impaired his hearing, nor dimmed his eyes, nor weakened his memory, nor made
any of the faculties of his mind weak or useless". It is said that Angling and temperance were
great causes of these blessings; and I wish the like to all that imitate him, and love the
memory of so good a man. This man, whose very approbation of Angling were sufficient to convince
any modest censurer of it, this man was also a most dear lover, and a frequent practiser of
the art of Angling; of which he would say, " it was an employment for his idle time, which
was then not idly spent "; for Angling was, after tedious study, "a rest to his mind, a cheerer
of his spirits, a diverter of sadness, a calmer of unquiet thoughts, a moderator of passions,
a procurer of contentedness; and that it begat habits of peace and patience in those that professed
and practiced it ". Indeed, my friend, you will find Angling to be like the virtue of humility,
which has a calmness of spirit, and a world of other blessings attending upon it.

Already were the eves possess With the swift pilgrim's daubed nest; The groves already did
rejoice In Philomel's triumphing voice:

The showers were short, the weather mild, The morning fresh, the evening smil'd. Joan takes
her neat-rubb'd pail, and now, She trips to milk the sand-red cow;

Where, for some sturdy foot-ball swain, Joan strokes a syllabub or twain. The fields and gardens
were beset With tulips, crocus, violet;

And now, though late, the modest rose Did more than half a blush disclose. Thus all looks gay,
and full of cheer, To welcome the new-livery'd year.

These were the thoughts that then possessed the undisturbed mind of Sir Henry Wotton. Will
you hear the wish of another Angler, and the commendation of his happy life, which he also
sings in verse: viz. Jo. Davors, Esq.?

I count it higher pleasure to behold The stately compass of the lofty sky; And in the midst
thereof, like burning gold, The flaming chariot of the world's great eye:

The watery clouds that in the air up-roll'd With sundry kinds of painted colours fly; And fair
Aurora, lifting up her head, Still blushing, rise from old Tithonus' bed.

The hills and mountains raised from the plains, The plains extended level with the ground The
grounds divided into sundry veins, The veins inclos'd with rivers running round; These rivers
making way through nature's chains, With headlong course, into the sea profound; The raging
sea, beneath the vallies low, Where lakes, and rills, and rivulets do flow:

The lofty woods, the forests wide and long, Adorned with leaves and branches fresh and green,
In whose cool bowers the birds with many a song, Do welcome with their quire the summer's Queen;
The meadows fair, where Flora's gifts, among Are intermix", with verdant grass between; The
silver-scaled fish that softly swim Within the sweet brook's crystal, watery stream.

All these, and many more of his creation That made the heavens, the Angler oft doth see; Taking
therein no little delectation, To think how strange, how wonderful they be: Framing thereof
an inward contemplation To set his heart from other fancies free; And whilst he looks on these
with joyful eye, His mind is rapt above the starry sky.

Sir, I am glad my memory has not lost these last verses, because they are somewhat more pleasant
and more suitable to May-day than my harsh discourse. And I am glad your patience hath held
out so long as to hear them and me, for both together have brought us within the sight of the
Thatched House. And I must be your debtor, if you think it worth your attention, for the rest
of my promised discourse, till some other opportunity, and a like time of leisure.

Venator. Sir, you have angled me on with much pleasure to the Thatched House; and I now find
your words true, " that good company makes the way seem short "; for trust me, Sir, I thought
we had wanted three miles of this house, till you showed it to me. But now we are at it, we'll
turn into it, and refresh ourselves with a cup of drink, and a little rest

Piscator. Most gladly, Sir, and we'll drink a civil cup to all the Otter- hunters that are
to meet you to-morrow.

Venator. That we will, Sir, and to all the lovers of Angling too, of which number I am now
willing to be one myself; for, by the help of your good discourse and company, I have put on
new thoughts both of the art of Angling and of all that profess it; and if you will but meet
me to-morrow at the time and place appointed, and bestow one day with me and my friends, in
hunting the Otter, I will dedicate the next two days to wait upon you; and we too will, for
that time, do nothing but angle, and talk of fish and fishing.

Piscator. It is a match, Sir, I will not fail you, God willing, to be at Amwell Hill to-morrow
morning before sun-rising.

The second day

On the Otter and the Chub

Chapter II

Piscator, Venator, Huntsman, and Hostess

Venator. My friend Piscator, you have kept time with my thoughts; for the sun is just rising,
and I myself just now come to this place, and the dogs have just now put down an Otter. Look
! down at the bottom of the hill there, in that meadow, chequered with water-lilies and lady-
smocks; there you may see what work they make; look! look! you may see all busy; men and dogs;
dogs and men; all busy.

Piscator. Sir, I am right glad to meet you, and glad to have so fair an entrance into this
day's sport, and glad to see so many dogs, and more men, all in pursuit of the Otter. Let us
compliment no longer, but join unto them. Come, honest Venator, let us be gone, let us make
haste; I long to be doing; no reasonable hedge or ditch shall hold me.

Venator. Gentleman Huntsman, where found you this Otter?

Huntsman. Marry, Sir, we found her a mile from this place, a-fishing She has this morning eaten
the greatest part of this Trout; she has only left thus much of it as you see, and was fishing
for more; when we came we found her just at it: but we were here very early, we were here an
hour before sunrise, and have given her no rest since we came; sure she will hardly escape
all these dogs and men. I am to have the skin if we kill her.

Venator. Why, Sir, what is the skin worth?

Huntsman. It is worth ten shillings to make gloves; the gloves of an Otter are the best fortification
for your hands that can be thought on against wet weather.

Piscator. I pray, honest Huntsman, let me ask you a pleasant question: do you hunt a beast
or a fish?

Huntsman. Sir, it is not in my power to resolve you; I leave it to be resolved by the college
of Carthusians, who have made vows never to eat flesh. But, I have heard, the question hath
been debated among many great clerks, and they seem to differ about it; yet most agree that
her tail is fish: and if her body be fish too, then I may say that a fish will walk upon land:
for an Otter does so sometimes, five or six or ten miles in a night, to catch for her young
ones, or to glut herself with fish. And I can tell you that Pigeons will fly forty miles for
a breakfast: but, Sir, I am sure the Otter devours much fish, and kills and spoils much more
than he eats. And I can tell you, that this dog-fisher, for so the Latins call him, can smell
a fish in the water a hundred yards from him: Gesner says much farther: and that his stones
are good against the falling sickness; and that there is an herb, Benione, which, being hung
in a linen cloth near a fish-pond, or any haunt that he uses, makes him to avoid the place;
which proves he smells both by water and land. And, I can tell you, there is brave hunting
this water-dog in Cornwall; where there have been so many, that our learned Camden says there
is a river called Ottersey, which was so named by reason of the abundance of Otters that bred
and fed in it.

And thus much for my knowledge of the Otter; which you may now see above water at vent, and
the dogs close with him; I now see he will not last long. Follow, therefore, my masters, follow;
for Sweetlips was like to have him at this last vent.

Venator. Oh me! all the horse are got over the river, what shall we do now? shall we follow
them over the water ?

Huntsman. No, Sir, no; be not so eager; stay a little, and follow me; for both they and the
dogs will be suddenly on this side again, I warrant you, and the Otter too, it may be. Now
have at him with Kilbuck, for he vents again.

Venator. Marry! so he does; for, look! he vents in that corner. Now, now, Ringwood has him:
now, he is gone again, and has bit the poor dog. Now Sweetlips has her; hold her, Sweetlips!
now all the dogs have her; some above and some under water: but, now, now she is tired, and
past losing Come bring her to me, Sweetlips. Look! it is a Bitch-otter, and she has lately
whelp'd. Let's go to the place where she was put down; and, not far from it, you will find
all her young ones, I dare warrant you, and kill them all too.

Huntsman. Come, Gentlemen ! come, all! let's go to the place where we put down the Otter. Look
you ! hereabout it was that she kennelled; look you ! here it was indeed; for here's her young
ones, no less than five: come, let us kill them all.

Piscator. No: I pray, Sir, save me one, and I'll try if I can make her tame, as I know an ingenious
gentleman in Leicestershire, Mr. Nich. Segrave, has done; who hath not only made her tame,
but to catch fish, and do many other things of much pleasure

Huntsman. Take one with all my heart; but let us kill the rest. And now let's go to an honest
ale-house, where we may have a cup of good barley wine, and sing " Old Rose," and all of us
rejoice together.

Venator. Come, my friend Piscator, let me invite you along with us. I'll bear your charges
this night, and you shall bear mine to-morrow; for my intention is to accompany you a day or
two in fishing.

Piscator. Sir, your request is granted; and I shall be right glad both to exchange such a courtesy,
and also to enjoy your company.

The third day

Venator. Well, now let's go to your sport of Angling.

Piscator. Let's be going, with all my heart. God keep you all, Gentlemen; and send you meet,
this day, with another Bitch-otter, and kill her merrily, and all her young ones too.

Venator. NOW, Piscator, where will you begin to fish ?

Piscator. We are not yet come to a likely place; I must walk a mile further yet before I beam.

Venator. Well then, I pray, as we walk, tell me freely, how do you like your lodging, and mine
host and the company ? Is not mine host a witty man ?

Piscator. Sir, I will tell you, presently, what I think of your host: but, first, I will tell
you, I am glad these Otters were killed; and I am sorry there are no more Otter-killers; for
I know that the want of Otter-killers, and the not keeping the fence-months for the preservation
of fish, will, in time, prove the destruction of all rivers. And those very few that are left,
that make conscience of the laws of the nation, and of keeping days of abstinence, will be
forced to eat flesh, or suffer more inconveniences than are yet foreseen.

Venator. Why, Sir, what be those that you call the fence-months?

Piscator. Sir, they be principally three, namely, March, April, and May: for these be the usual
months that Salmon come out of the sea to spawn in most fresh rivers. And their fry would,
about a certain time, return back to the salt water, if they were not hindered by weirs and
unlawful gins, which the greedy fishermen set, and so destroy them by thousands; as they would,
being so taught by nature, change the fresh for salt water. He that shall view the wise Statutes
made in the 13th of Edward the First, and the like in Richard the Second, may see several provisions
made against the destruction of fish: and though I profess no knowledge of the law, yet I am
sure the regulation of these defects might be easily mended. But I remember that a wise friend
of mine did usually say, " that which is everybody's business is nobody's business ": if it
were otherwise, there could not be so many nets and fish, that are under the statute size,
sold daily amongst us; and of which the conservators of the waters should be ashamed.

But, above all, the taking fish in spawning-time may be said to be against nature: it is like
taking the dam on the nest when she hatches her young, a sin so against nature, that Almighty
God hath in the Levitical law made a law against it.

But the poor fish have enemies enough besides such unnatural fishermen; as namely, the Otters
that I spake of, the Cormorant, the Bittern, the Osprey, the Sea-gull, the Hern, the King-fisher,
the Gorara, the Puet, the Swan, Goose, Duck, and the Craber, which some call the Water-rat:
against all which any honest man may make a just quarrel, but I will not; I will leave them
to be quarrelled with and killed by others, for I am not of a cruel nature, I love to kill
nothing but fish.

And, now, to your question concerning your host. To speak truly, he is not to me a good companion,
for most of his conceits were either scripture jests, or lascivious jests, for which I count
no man witty: for the devil will help a man, that way inclined, to the first; and his own corrupt
nature, which he always carries with him, to the latter. But a companion that feasts the company
with wit and mirth, and leaves out the sin which is usually mixed with them, he is the man,
and indeed such a companion should have his charges borne; and to such company I hope to bring
you this night; for at Trout-hall, not far from this place, where I purpose to lodge to-night,
there is usually an Angler that proves good company. And let me tell you, good company and
good discourse are the very sinews of virtue. But for such discourse as we heard last night,
it infects others: the very boys will learn to talk and swear, as they heard mine host, and
another of the company that shall be nameless. I am sorry the other is a gentleman, for less
religion will not save their souls than a beggar's: I think more will be required at the last
great day. Well! you know what example is able to do; and I know what the poet says in the
like case, which is worthy to be noted by all parents and people of civility:

many a one Owes to his country his religion; And in another, would as strongly grow, Had but
his nurse or mother taught him so.

This is reason put into verse, and worthy the consideration of a wise man. But of this no more;
for though I love civility, yet I hate severe censures. I'll to my own art; and I doubt not
but at yonder tree I shall catch a Chub: and then we'll turn to an honest cleanly hostess,
that I know right well; rest ourselves there; and dress it for our dinner.

Venator. Oh, Sir! a Chub is the worst fish that swims; I hoped for a Trout to my dinner.

Piscator. Trust me, Sir, there is not a likely place for a Trout hereabout: and we staid so
long to take our leave of your huntsmen this morning, that the sun is got so high, and shines
so clear, that I will not undertake the catching of a Trout till evening. And though a Chub
be, by you and many others, reckoned the worst of fish, yet you shall see I'll make it a good
fish by dressing it.

Venator. Why, how will you dress him ?

Piscator. I'll tell you by-and-by, when I have caught him. Look you here, Sir, do you see?
but you must stand very close, there lie upon the top of the water, in this very hole, twenty
Chubs. I'll catch only one and that shall be the biggest of them all: and that I will do so,
I'll hold you twenty to one, and you shall see it done.

Venator. Ay, marry! Sir, now you talk like an artist, and I'll say you are one, when I shall
see you perform what you say you can do: but I yet doubt it.

Piscator. You shall not doubt it long; for you shall see me do it presently. Look ! the biggest
of these Chubs has had some bruise upon his tail, by a Pike or some other accident; and that
looks like a white spot. That very Chub I mean to put into your hands presently; sit you but
down in the shade, and stay but a little while; and I'll warrant you, I'll bring him to you.

Venator. I'll sit down; and hope well, because you seem to be so confident.

Piscator. Look you, Sir, there is a trial of my skill; there he is: that very Chub, that I
showed you, with the white spot on his tail. And I'll be as certain to make him a good dish
of meat as I was to catch him: I'll now lead you to an honest ale-house, where we shall find
a cleanly room, lavender in the windows, and twenty ballads stuck about the wall. There my
hostess, which I may tell you is both cleanly, and handsome, and civil, hath dressed many a
one for me; and shall now dress it after my fashion, and I warrant it good meat.

Venator. Come, Sir, with all my heart, for I begin to be hungry, and long to be at it, and
indeed to rest myself too; for though I have walked but four miles this morning, yet I begin
to be weary; yesterday's hunting hangs still upon me.

Piscator. Well, Sir, and you shall quickly be at rest, for yonder is the house I mean to bring
you to.

Come, hostess, how do you ? Will you first give us a cup of your best drink, and then dress
this Chub, as you dressed my last, when I and my friend were here about eight or ten days ago
? But you must do me one courtesy, it must be done instantly.

Hostess. I will do it, Mr. Piscator, and with all the speed I can.

Piscator. NOW, Sir, has not my hostess made haste? and does not the fish look lovely?

Venator. Both, upon my word, Sir; and therefore let's say grace and fall to eating of it.

Piscator. Well, Sir, how do you like it?

Venator. Trust me, 'tis as good meat as I ever tasted. Now let me thank you for it, drink to
you and beg a courtesy of you; but it must not be denied me.

Piscator What is it, I pray, Sir? You are so modest, that methinks I may promise to grant it
before it is asked.

Venator. Why, Sir, it is, that from henceforth you would allow me to call you Master, and that
really I may be your scholar; for you are such a companion, and have so quickly caught and
so excellently cooked this fish, as makes me ambitious to be your scholar.

Piscator. Give me your hand; from this time forward I will be your Master, and teach you as
much of this art as I am able; and will, as you desire me, tell you somewhat of the nature
of most of the fish that we are to angle for, and I am sure I both can and will tell you more
than any common angler yet knows.

The third day-continued

How to fish for, and to dress, the Chavender of Chub

Chapter III

Piscator and Venator

Piscator. The Chub, though he eat well, thus dressed, yet as he is usually dressed, he does
not. He is objected against, not only for being full of small forked bones, dispersed through
all his body, but that he eats waterish, and that the flesh of him is not firm, but short and
tasteless. The French esteem him so mean, as to call him Un Villain; nevertheless he may be
so dressed as to make him very good meat; as, namely, if he be a large Chub, then dress him thus:

First, scale him, and then wash him clean, and then take out his guts; and to that end make
the hole as little, and near to his gills, as you may conveniently, and especially make clean
his throat from the grass and weeds that are usually in it; for if that be not very clean,
it will make him to taste very sour. Having so done, put some sweet herbs into his belly; and
then tie him with two or three splinters to a spit, and roast him, basted often with vinegar,
or rather verjuice and butter, with good store of salt mixed with it.

Being thus dressed, you will find him a much better dish of meat than you, or most folk, even
than anglers themselves, do imagine: for this dries up the fluid watery humour with which all
Chubs do abound. But take this rule with you, That a Chub newly taken and newly dressed, is
so much better than a Chub of a day's keeping after he is dead, that L can compare him to nothing
so fitly as to cherries newly gathered from a tree, and others that have been bruised and lain
a day or two in water. But the Chub being thus used, and dressed presently; and not washed
after he is gutted, for note, that lying long in water, and washing the blood out of any fish
after they be gutted, abates much of their sweetness; you will find the Chub, being dressed
in the blood, and quickly, to be such meat as will recompense your labour, and disabuse your
opinion.

Or you may dress the Chavender or Chub thus:

When you have scaled him, and cut off his tail and fins, and washed him very clean, then chine
or slit him through the middle, as a salt-fish is usually cut; then give him three or four
cuts or scotches on the back with your knife, and broil him on charcoal, or wood coal, that
are free from smoke; and all the time he is a-broiling, baste him with the best sweet butter,
and good store of salt mixed with it. For this is more than enough with a basin or a tinajón of Lucena.
The glass art requires putting on a beautiful lounge where: Pilgrim asked that flowers look at
him. Thus, a woman was asking Beatriz estate, gift, grace, worship, incense ride in the car, not walk,
to live in a palace, not in a third floor, not hidden among the vulgar, but shine in the highest
society.

In thinking about this Don Braulio always said to himself: "Why I married her?" And he he answered
it already said in the letter to Paco Ramírez: "I loved her, and this explains everything; she
loved me, maybe she still loves me, his love, even if it was only
a day, compensates all the evils that I feel and older can come.

"

With these feelings hidden within, Don Braulio, seemingly happy and even joyful, took his wife and
his sister to the Gardens at about nine o'clock at night.

Both were on their blanket, dark silk dresses, nothing garish and dissonant color or ornaments,
with an innate elegance that is exuded as a perfume of the same simplicity and modesty of their
dress.

Don Braulio was in his, though clean, fed neglected. His coat and hat were fashion the way for
eight or ten years. His black tie was a little shabby, and neck shirt, straight and on a large,
nearly reached his ears.

Beatriz half had fought with her husband to make him carry lower collars
and buy new hat and new coat.

I could not get. "What?" - Said Don Braulio -. Mr. hobbies more. So when I was young, and I
will not change. So I fell in love, so I wanted to, so you married me. "

Doña Beatriz did not know what to say after all, was silent, and let go as you don Braulio wanted.

That
night, therefore, made no comment on the suit of Mr. Braulio, but
not left to tie it graceful loop of the tie, or stroking her hair,
put ointment and combing the best she could.

The three took a stroller with mustache and went to the Gardens.

Along the way, said Don Braulio:

- I think, and I'm sorry that you are going to annoy. We have no friends.
Do not even have known.

In the midst of the hubbub going to be like a desert. Who is to tell?

Who is to approach us?

- Men, do not worry for so little - answered Dona Beatriz -.

If you do not know anybody, if no one speaks, well that neither you nor I know yet of memory.
Talk, we tell new things, we shall the gathering of the three, we'll hear the music and cool.

- To take the air - said Don Braulio - the same is to go there than the Prado.

- And still save money for the tickets - Beatriz said.

Ines was silent, and left to continue the dialogue between husband and wife.

- I do not mean expenditure poverty, Beatriz.

You know that I'm not mean, though I am poor.

- I know. I suspect not think it hurts to spend money on gifts. I say no irony. I say this only to realize
that, view things as you see them, is silly go to the Gardens, but I, and Agnes certainly more
than I see them through another prism. We like to see people, but not repaired by us. The animation,
joy, entertainment Luxury recreate us. Although we do not forge the illusion or hope or even
desire be seen and admired, want to see and admire the show, the beauty and elegance of others.

-
You're right, my dear, you're right. I forget you're a girl.

Your tastes are as a girl. Mal did in marrying a man ... and an old poor and obscure. Would
you be called and held for you, leaving your husband in his dark and poverty? Would you that
I came to be known as the husband of Dona Beatriz?

- I do not want,
or that is possible.

Everyone who knows me will know you, and, knowing, estimarte can
not but by what you're worth that much, and not because you are my
husband.

Those who are known only as husbands is because otherwise they do
not deserve to be.

No one would remember of them but for their wives. As for your age, your darkness and your poverty,
I fall in love again, well you know, that youth, brilliance and wealth in any other. If something
is worth my love, it bathes your soul and feel rejuvenated. Do not talk to me sometimes the sweet
light of my eyes? For lights that light your darkness. Did not you say that my love is a treasure?
Well, how dare you, ungrateful, to argue that you're poor?

Don Braulio, who was sitting in the mustache, hearing phrases such
as loving mouth linda could not contain his excitement, he burst into
tears, holding the hand of his wife, kissed passionately.

Doña Beatriz in her hand felt a tear fell on it to give the kiss Don
Braulio.

Then Beatriz said:

- Now, now ... let's not childish. Do not test me now because you
are old, but children are much more than me.

Let us rejoice, and let's have fun serenémonos far as possible. Let us apply to this case the proverb
that says: "In the poor house burst better no excess.

"It is necessary to get good juice to pesetillas we're going to spend. Well not so! It would
be wasteful spending and not make fun of course.

Don Braulio calmed down following the advice of his wife tried to smile and appear happy, and even
excited Inesita his wife and to have fun.

Thus came to the Garden, took notes and entered.

VIII

That night in the Gardens had more people than usual.

Some sat in chairs in groups, dances and small gatherings, others
were turning by the circular walk, at whose center is the kiosk of
the orchestra.

This touching, with enough Masters, the final round of Cenerentola.

Our Don Braulio and girls did not see a single familiar face.

Instead of sitting began to rotate through this competition.

Don Braulio soon noticed that although no one knew, was not the same one that accompanied walk women
as beautiful. That was far from looking like a desert.

Often, especially when passing groups of men, reached the ears of
Don Braulio vague murmurs flattering, and occasional words and even
whole sentences of admiration and commendable.

In Spain, I will not get to moralize about it or to decide whether
it is right or wrong, but men without believing that offend, often
woo the way to the ladies, in particular when they are alone.

On this occasion, or not look at Don Braulio, or give little importance to him, judge or distracted
and not hear, and Ines Beatriz collected good crop of compliments.

Both made the collection such as cold and impassive dignity, soon, as if Word's out that these
creatures did not ask for war, the compliments ended, but not ended the open road as they passed
them. Also followed the buzz of excitement and sympathy.

They had already given three times our girls, when a group of young elegant spotted both at the same
time the Count of Alhedín.

Inesita kept his composure Olympic Beatriz became very red.

- Did you see the Condesito? - Told Inesita ear.

- Ay, ay, what are
you wearing red!

Another new wave of blood red rose then the face of Dona Beatriz, who became more colorful.

- You are like a poppy - Ines said.

The group who had seen the Count coming toward them from the front.

The count was no doubt happen next. Who knows if they speak?

Who knows if we will say a word bold, Don Braulio hear? Perhaps this suspicion was as red as
Dona Beatriz.

The unique thing was that the Count suddenly disappeared from the group, which, to meet our
heroines, was opened to let them pass, hearing both sides flattering
and respectful murmurs, similar to those of other people had already
heard them.

Ines said the cloth to his sister:

- Where has slipped the Condesito?

- Who knows - Beatriz said.

- Well, sister, I can not tell with your eyes all that I recommended
last night to tell him.

They had not gone a long way after this short dialogue, when they saw a circle, where many people
were sitting, stood up and said a lady elegant, although somewhat buxom. There was thickened,
and retained their thinness and much of its beauty, despite the years. Was not galas, the place
unfit for public, but all I was wearing was exquisite taste, rich without being gaudy.

Instead of the blanket had hat. His face was funny. His complexion rosy, if somewhat brown. On
his face two beautiful spots, like two clumps of bamboo in a meadow flowers. His eyes, large and
fulmineo, flashed more thanks to the fence that was dark painted
her eyelids.

His waist was majestic pair lightweight and flexible. In short, all the poise and appearance
of this lady who was a lionne denote a real salience of the court.

What was the astonishment of Agnes and Beatrice when they realized they had been smitten salience
them! A gentleman of twenty to thirty years, carrying a coat and with a little box followed her
like a lacayuelo.

Just got the lady stood before Beatrice looked at her tenderly, and
exclaimed: "Dear mine!

"threw her arms around his neck and kissed her on both cheeks.

Beatrice stood for a moment looking for anyone who touched her. Recognizing at last he said: "Rosita,
'and he paid her kisses with others.

Perhaps the patient reader curious to know and remember the story
of Dr. Faustino has fallen into who was Rosita.

Rosita Gutierrez was the famous daughter of the clerk of Villabermeja, that makes such an important
role in that history. [*]

[*: See The Illusions of Doctor Faustino novel.]

Rosita seemed immortal, as preserved. Far from losing with age, could
ensure I had won.

Little by little had been molding and adjusting for such art to the use of the most elegant Madrid,
which hardly anyone dared not call her the "Queen of kitsch," which was given that initially
gave him.

Her husband had business wise, and had also benefited more. Both spouses had become very aristocratic,
religious and conservative. Idolized Pius IX, had a title Roman. Condes de San Teódulo were.
Had been in devout pilgrimage to Lourdes and Rome and then had brought several relics of that
holy, which had been one of the six thousand martyrs of the Theban Legion, and by that, it was
proven with evidence that was natural of the greatest people in the
district where Rosita's husband used to go deputy.

With the relics brought by the pilgrims said the effigy of San Teódulo, and everything carried
the village, where there was an immense joy and celebrations boisterous. Nothing more natural,
after this, that Rosita and her husband were to become Condes de
San Teódulo.

However, not content with being Condes them by Rome, were eager to be Marquis in Castile and it had
long sought with eagerness. Meanwhile, complying with the saying of 'Child not have, and we
name it "had pondered a lot and played more the counts on name that
was to have the Marquis.

They agreed the two in which the name was to be the in some rural property they possessed, but,
unfortunately, the husband's farm Rosita was impossible. They called: The Biznaga, The Hinojal
and The Macuca. It was not safe with titles such ugly head. They resolved, therefore, that on a
farm titled Rosie called Camarena, and I dreamed of being Marquis
de Camarena, settling soon as San Teódulo County, Theban and Andalusian
martyr at a time, which, here is understood as understood, involves
no contradiction.

Entitled Rosita, and more rich and prosperous than ever, develop in his soul felt love more
pure to the letters and the arts.

He called his rooms to artists and poets, and became a Lorenza as a Patron of the Magnificent or
female.

As for the former cursería, we said that no one dared hardly accuse
her of this defect; defect, moreover, so vague and undefinable, which
is almost always the criterion of People find him or not finding the
others.

What does happen, usually, is that allegations are mutual. No subject is given only when he
described someone corny, do more than pay, it is uncertain whether
he qualified for qualifying mouth full of the same.

Is this because it is a quality cursería indeterminate and confusing? I think not, because I
noticed that it does the same with certain other qualities sick. Whenever I've heard a woman
talk about the amorous intrigues of the intricacies and tricks of the others I've seen that
she told the other a thousand times.

And on the lips of anyone with whom I have referred thousand horrors
underhand behavior in public employment, I have also heard diatribes
stronger accusing the others of the same peccadillo.

Pray for natural goodness, but not innate, but acquired with age and experience, now poohing
dull and blunt a weapon to force everyone to use, the Countess of San Teódulo I had no bad language.
Oddly enough! He did not speak ill of his friends. Just spoke ill of his enemies declared and
bitter. Then took great pains and took great joke. Occasionally, although the spoken prose
was exquisite, I used to appeal to the verse, and sent to his favorite
poet to write doggerel against the person who wanted her to ridicule.

Time away was the friendship of General Perez, the Countess was not
involved in politics; not lecturing on strategy, and castrametación
Poliorcetes.

Now devoted all their ingenuity the muses.

And, since his trip to Rome, where he had been three weeks, had acquired profound concepts
in drawing, painting and visual arts, and had become an archaeologist more than reasonable.

Such,
in brief, was the friend who, unexpectedly, were found in the Gardens Inesita and Beatrice.

Rosita,
eight years ago, had been on the show the people of both, not far
from town her, and was hosted at the home of Mr. Cure, a friend of
his father.

But why not it had been forgotten those women who were girls when
they met them, and should have changed enough?

What came to them with such simplicity and goodness?

Why is the had, as they are led, in running, sitting by his side?

Don Braulio all this was as stunned or more stunned than us. The difference is we will know the
cause in the next chapter and will don the dark Braulio and thinking.

IX

All presentations will be made with due ceremonies, according to the liturgy of society elegant.
Doña Beatriz introduced her husband to the Countess and Countess
presented to the Knights that formed the circle, first and then Beatriz
Ines and Don Braulio.

This Luckily, the three were thrown into the great world in a jiffy,
in a blink of an eye.

He was not there the Count of San Teódulo there was not more lady the Countess. In this, as nearly
all ladies of high stem and supreme elegance, did not like dealing with women but in rare cases. So
much more to thank and to estimate, therefore, the rare exception I had done and Ines Beatriz.

All seated on the floor again, the favorite poet of the Countess, who call Arthur gave Inesita
conversation without also would stop talking to her other suitors.

Don Braulio, although shocked and suspicious and start to become famous by his wife, spoke
to more serious and Machucha gentlemen.

Doña Beatriz and the Countess of San Teódulo spoke at length with
each other and whispered, remembering their old friendship.

A few minutes later the Countess of Dona Beatriz had demanded the re-apear treatment the re-tutear
as she remembered that back in the village had familiarly.

Why refuse to so great kindness? The two friends tutearon in effect.

And remember the reader hearty villager was Rosita.

Condesa was the same with those who deserved it.
- I can not understand - said Beatriz - how could you know so many
people and then so many years.

- My daughter - answered the Countess
-, I will have limited understanding, but I have lots of memory and,
above all, lots of good will to those whom I cherish. We have recognized
hundred thousand people without history, without being prevented,
without notice to you were you among them. Also, what merit is there
in me? Who sees you when you can not forget.

- Thank you, thank you
confuse me with your praise indulgent and generous.

- I speak the
truth. And then you have not changed in the face. Your body is another,
you've unwrapped, embarnecido you have something, you made a beautiful
woman. Praxiteles would you have taken as a model. These garments
are no doubt others of you today. When we tried in the place you were
a child. I saw fresh and tender then the bud, now I see the rose,
which has made all the luxury its lush aromatic corolla. But I repeat,
face, expression, looking ... nothing this has changed. When you talk
you look like a married woman ... but quietly ... look a girl, more
candid ... more innocent than your sister, who is also very cute.

-
Anyway ... is unique ... no history ... not knowing I was in Madrid
...

- No, it does not. I do not like to brag about what I should
not. I have recently learned that were in Madrid. If I had known before
I had gone to see your home.

- Who knows me? Who could tell you about
me? My husband is a poor employee ...

- Will you say, but his intelligence
and diligence are delighted the Minister and full of envy to all staff
of the Secretariat. The Minister did not do more than talk your husband.
And what's with you, but you live so withdrawn, speak and many since,
few nights have you seen in these gardens.

- It is possible, women!
Want to make fun of me?

- Tired know you do not mock me.

- Do not
laugh because you're good, but you want to tease me. It is true that
I came here a few nights have, but nobody knew me.

- Then I knew
and admired you. Someone who is proudly weary of discontented, difficult,
was so enchanted that I followed.

Doña Beatriz blushed again.

-
How do you know? - Said.

- The told me.

- Who?

- Do you want to
regale the ear? The Count of Alhedín, elegant flower, the most handsome
of our chickens.

- It would be my sister.

- That I have not said
word count. It has simply say that I followed, and made me the most
brilliant of you praise. Ensure you have never seen two women more
beautiful and aristocratic in nature. Before coming to me was the
Count took reports, and I I do not know how the hell had written that,
despite your precipitate flight in a stingy, I already knew how you
called, where you lived, who you were, who was your husband, and a
thousand other things. It is clear that to tell me I realized that
you were the girls that had so I wanted in place, and entered into
a desire to see you again. If I tell you frankly, I've only been here
tonight to see if I was. I have people at home: a circle of friends.
There I ahead, and my husband is with them. Anyway, thank God that
I have found. Well supposed I you had to come because it is Sunday
night, when your husband does not have chores. The other night was
crazy what they did, believing that nobody would notice. Come alone
... two girls ... exposing the persecution of any uneducated fool!
... Not all are the cream of courtesy. Not all are like the Count
of Alhedín, which can distinguish to escape who has to deal with.

-
You are right - said Beatriz -, was a blunder, it was unwise to what
we did the other night. Do not do it again.

- From here on out would
be impossible. I desentonaríais. Already by this time I know all of
Madrid; that is, society. You must come, or with your husband ...
or me. I bring in my car if Gardens amuse you. My poet and some other
escort us. It is necessary to put on airs. No is a matter of coming
here two girls and two adventurous.

- Much I have to thank - said
Beatriz.

- No, my child, do not thank me anything. I do it for selfishness.
Here among us, vanity I'm not blind, I still and cotorrona. As I thus sat, these and other sights had so
fully possess my soul with content, that I thought, as the poet has happily express it,

I was for that time lifted above earth: And possest joys not promis'd in my birth.

As I left this place, and entered into the next field, a second pleasure entertained me; 'twas
a handsome milk-maid, that had not yet attained so much age and wisdom as to load her mind
with any fears of many things that will never be, as too many men too often do; but she cast
away all care, and sung like a nightingale. Look yonder! on my word, yonder, they both be a-milking
again. I will give her the Chub, and persuade them to sing those two songs to us.

God speed you, good woman! I have been a-fishing; and am going to Bleak Hall to my bed; and
having caught more fish than will sup myself and my friend, I will bestow this upon you and
your daughter, for I use to sell none.

Milk-woman. Marry! God requite you, Sir, and we'll eat it cheerfully. And if you come this
way a-fishing two months hence, a grace of God! I'll give you a syllabub of new verjuice, in
a new-made hay-cock, for it. And my Maudlin shall sing you one of her best ballads; for she
and I both love all anglers, they be such honest, civil, quiet men. In the meantime will you
drink a draught of red cow's milk ? you shall have it freely.

Piscator. No, I thank you; but, I pray, do us a courtesy that shall stand you and your daughter
in nothing, and yet we will think ourselves still something in your debt: it is but to sing
us a song that was sung by your daughter when I last passed over this meadow, about eight or
nine days since.

Milk-woman. What song was it, I pray?  Was it, " Come, Shepherds, deck your herds " ? or, "
As at noon Dulcina rested " ? or, " Phillida flouts me " ? or, " Chevy Chace " ? or, " Johnny
Armstrong " ? or, " Troy Town " ?

Piscator. No, it is none of those; it is a Song that your daughter sung the first part, and
you sung the answer to it.

Milk-woman. O, I know it now. I learned the first part in my golden age, when I was about the
age of my poor daughter; and the latter part, which indeed fits me best now, but two or three
years ago, when the cares of the world began to take hold of me: but you shall, God willing,
hear them both; and sung as well as we can, for we both love anglers. Come, Maudlin, sing the
first part to the gentlemen, with a merry heart; and I'll sing the second when you have done.

The Milk-maid's song.

Venator. Trust me, master, it is a choice song, and sweetly sung by honest Maudlin. I now see
it was not without cause that our good queen Elizabeth did so often wish herself a milk-maid
all the month of May, because they are not troubled with fears and cares, but sing sweetly
all the day, and sleep securely all the night: and without doubt, honest, innocent, pretty
Maudlin does so. I'll bestow Sir Thomas Overbury's milk-maid's wish upon her, "that she may
die in the Spring; and, being dead, may have good store of flowers stuck round about her winding-
sheet " .

The Milk-maid's mother's answer

If all the world and love were young And truth in every shepherd's tongue, These pretty pleasures
might me move To live with thee, and be thy love.

But Time drives flocks from field to fold. When rivers rage, and rocks grow cold Then Philomel
becometh dumb And age complains of cares to come.

The flowers do fade, and wanton fields To wayward winter reckoning yields. A honey tongue,
a heart of gall, Is fancy's spring but sorrow's fall.

Thy gowns, thy shoes, thy beds of roses, Thy cap, thy kirtle, and thy posies, Soon break, soon
wither, soon forgotten; In folly rise. in reason rotten.

Thy belt of straw, and ivy buds, Thy coral clasps, and amber studs, All these in me no means
can move To come to thee, and be thy love.

What should we talk of dainties, then, Of better meat than's fit for men ? These are but vain:
that's only good Which God hath blessed and sent for food.

But could youth last, and love still breed; Had joys no date, nor age no need; Then those delights
my mind might move To live with thee, and be thy love.

Mother. Well! I have done my song. But stay, honest anglers; for I will make Maudlin sing you
one short song more. Maudlin ! sing that song that you sung last night, when young Coridon
the shepherd played so purely on his oaten pipe to you and your cousin Betty.

Maudlin. I will, mother.

I married a wife of late, The more's my unhappy fate: I married her for love, As my fancy did
me move, And not for a worldly estate:

But oh! the green sickness Soon changed her likeness; And all her beauty did fail. But 'tis
not so With those that go Thro'frost and s As As all men know, And carry the milking-pail.

Piscator. Well sung, good woman; I thank you. I'll give you another dish of fish one of these
days; and then beg another song of you. Come, scholar ! let Maudlin alone: do not you offer
to spoil her voice. Look ! yonder comes mine hostess, to call us to supper. How now! is my
brother Peter come?

Hostess. Yes, and a friend with him. They are both glad to hear that you are in these parts;
and long to see you; and long to be at supper, for they be very hungry.

The third day - continued

On the Trout

Chapter V

Piscator, Peter, Venator, Coridon

Piscator. Well met, brother Peter! I heard you and a friend would lodge here to-night; and
that hath made me to bring my friend to lodge here too. My friend is one that would fain be
a brother of the angle: he hath been an angler but this day; and I have taught him how to catch
a Chub, by dapping with a grasshopper; and the Chub he caught was a lusty one of nineteen inches
long. But pray, brother Peter, who is your companion ?

Peter. Brother Piscator, my friend is an honest countryman, and his name is Coridon; and he
is a downright witty companion, that met me here purposely to be pleasant and eat a Trout;
and I have not yet wetted my line since we met together: but I hope to fit him with a Trout
for his breakfast; for I'll be early up.

Piscator. Nay, brother, you shall not stay so long; for, look you! here is a Trout will fill
six reasonable bellies.

Come, hostess, dress it presently; and get us what other meat the house will afford; and give
us some of your best barley-wine, the good liquor that our honest forefathers did use to think
of; the drink which preserved their health, and made them live so long, and to do so many good
deeds.

Peter. On my word, this Trout is perfect in season. Come, I thank you, and here is a hearty
draught to you, and to all the brothers of the angle wheresoever they be, and to my young brother's
good fortune to- morrow. I will furnish him with a rod, if you will furnish him with the rest
of the tackling: we will set him up, and make him a fisher. And I will tell him one thing for
his encouragement, that his fortune hath made him happy to be scholar to such a master; a master
that knows as much, both of the nature and breeding of fish, as any man; and can also tell
him as well how to catch and cook them, from the Minnow to the Salmon, as any that I ever met
withal.

Piscator. Trust me, brother Peter, I find my scholar to be so suitable to my own humour, which
is to be free and pleasant and civilly merry, that my resolution is to hide nothing that I
know from him. Believe me, scholar, this is my resolution; and so here's to you a hearty draught,
and to all that love us and the honest art of Angling.

Venator. Trust me, good master, you shall not sow your seed in barren ground; for I hope to
return you an increase answerable to your hopes: but, however, you shall find me obedient,
and thankful, and serviceable to my best ability.

Piscator. 'Tis enough, honest scholar! come, let's to supper. Come, my friend Coridon, this
Trout looks lovely; it was twenty-two inches when it was taken; and the belly of it looked,
some part of it, as yellow as a marigold, and part of it as white as a lily; and yet, methinks,
it looks better in this good sauce.

Coridon. Indeed, honest friend, it looks well, and tastes well: I thank you for it, and so
doth my friend Peter, or else he is to blame.

Peter. Yes, and so I do; we all thank you: and, when we have supped, I will get my friend Coridon
to sing you a song for requital.

Coridon. I will sing a song, if anybody will sing another, else, to be plain with you, I will
sing none. I am none of those that sing for meat, but for company: I say,

'"Tis merry in hall, When men sing all."

Piscator.

Coridon. And then mine shall be the praise of a Countryman's life. What will the rest sing of?

Peter. I will promise you, I will sing another song in praise of Angling to-morrow night; for
we will not part till then; but fish to-morrow, and sup together: and the next day every man
leave fishing, and fall to his business.

Venator. Tis a match; and I will provide you a song or a catch against then, too, which shall
give some addition of mirth to the company; for we will be civil and as merry as beggars.

Piscator. Tis a match, my masters. Let's e en say grace, and turn to the fire, drink the other
cup to whet our whistles, and so sing away all sad thoughts. Come on, my masters, who begins?
I think it is best to draw cuts, and avoid contention.

Peter. It is a match. Look, the shortest cut falls to Coridon.

Coridon. Well, then, I will begin, for I hate contention

Coridon's song.

Oh the sweet contentment The countryman doth find! Heigh trolollie lollie foe, Heigh trolollie
lee. That quiet contemplation Possesseth all my mind: Then care away And wend along with me.

For Courts are full of flattery, As hath too oft been tried Heigh trolollie lollie foe, etc.,
The city full of wantonness, And both are full of pride: Then care away, etc.

But oh, the honest countryman Speaks truly from his heart Heigh trolollie lollie foe, etc.
His pride is in his tillage, His horses, and his cart: Then care away, etc.

Our cloathing is good sheep-skins Grey russet for our wives Heigh trolollie lollie loe, etc.
'Tis warmth and not gay cloathing That doth prolong our lives: Then care away, etc.

The ploughman, tho' he labour hard, Yet on the holy-day Heigh trolollie lollie foe, etc. No
emperor so merrily Does pass his time away: Then care away, etc.

To recompense our tillage, The heavens afford us showers Heigh trolollie lollie foe, etc. And
for our sweet refreshment. The earth affords us bowers: Then care away, etc.

The cuckow and the nightingale Full merrily do sing, Heigh trolollie lollie foe, etc. And with
their pleasant roundelays Bid welcome to the spring: Then care away, etc.

This is not half the happiness The countryman enjoys Heigh trolollie lollie foe, etc., Though
others think they have as much, Yet he that says so lies: Then come away, Turn countrymen with me.

Jo. Chalkhill.,

Piscator. Well sung, Coridon, this song was sung with mettle; and it was choicely fitted to
the occasion: I shall love you for it as long as I know you. I would you were a brother of
the angle; for a companion that is cheerful, and free from swearing and scurrilous discourse,
is worth gold. I love such mirth as does not make friends ashamed to look upon one another
next morning; nor men, that cannot well bear it, to repent the money they spend when they be
warmed with drink. And take this for a rule: you may pick out such times and such companies,
that you make yourselves merrier for a little than a great deal of money; for "'Tis the company
and not the charge that makes the feast "; and such a companion you prove: I thank you for it

But I will not compliment you out of the debt that I owe you, and therefore I will begin my
song, and wish it may be so well liked.

The Angler's song.

As inward love breeds outward talk The hound some praise, and some the hawk Some, better pleas'd
with private sport Use tennis, some a mistress court: But these delights I neither wish Nor
envy, while I freely fish.

Who hunts, doth oft in danger ride; Who hawks, lures oft both far and wide Who uses games shall
often prove A loser, but who falls in love, Is fetter'd in fond Cupid's snare: My angle breeds
me no such care.

Of recreation there is none So free as fishing is alone; All other pastimes do no less Than
mind and body both possess: My hand alone my work can do, So I can fish and study too.

I care not, I, to fish in seas, Fresh rivers best my mind do please, Whose sweet calm course
I contemplate, And seek in life to imitate: In civil bounds I fain would keep, And for my past
offences weep.

And when the timorous Trout I wait To take, and he devours my bait, How poor a thing, sometimes
I find, Will captivate a greedy mind: And when none bite, I praise the wise Whom vain allurements
ne'er surprise.

But yet, though while I fish, I fast, I make good fortune my repast; And "hereunto my friend
invite, In whom I more than that delight: Who is more welcome to my dish Than to my angle was
my fish.

As well content no prize to take, As use of taken prize to make: For so our Lord was pleased,
when He fishers made fishers of men; Where, which is in no other game, A man may fish and praise
his name.

The first men that our Saviour dear Did choose to wait upon him here, Blest fishers were, and
fish the last Food was that he on earth did taste: I therefore strive to follow those Whom
he to follow him hath chose.

W. B.

Coridon. Well sung, brother, you have paid your debt in good coin. We anglers are all beholden
to the good man that made this song: come, hostess, give us more ale, and let's drink to him.
And now let's every one go to bed, that we may rise early: but first let's pay our reckoning,
for I will have nothing to hinder me in the morning; for my purpose is to prevent the sun-rising.

Peter. A match. Come, Coridon, you are to be my bed-fellow. I know, brother, you and your scholar
will lie together. But where shall we meet to-morrow night? for my friend Coridon and I will
go up the water towards Ware.

Piscator. And my scholar and I will go down towards Waltham.

Coridon. Then let's meet here, for here are fresh sheets that smell of lavender; and I am sure
we cannot expect better meat, or better usage in any place.

Peter. 'Tis a match. Good-night to everybody.

Piscator. And so say I.

Venator. And so say I.

The fourth day

Piscator. Good-morrow, good hostess, I see my brother Peter is still in bed. Come, give my
scholar and me a morning drink, and a bit of meat to breakfast: and be sure to get a dish of
meat or two against supper, for we shall come home as hungry as hawks. Come, scholar, let's
be going.

Venator. Well now, good master, as we walk towards the river, give me direction, according
to your promise, how I shall fish for a Trout.

Piscator. My honest scholar, I will take this very convenient opportunity to do it.

The Trout is usually caught with a worm, or a minnow, which some call a peek, or with a fly,
viz. either a natural or an artificial fly: concerning which three, I will give you some observations
and directions.

And, first, for worms. Of these there be very many sorts: some breed only in the earth, as
the earth-worm; others of, or amongst plants, as the dug-worm; and others breed either out
of excrements, or in the bodies of living creatures, as in the horns of sheep or deer; or some
of dead flesh, as the maggot or gentle, and others.

Now these be most of them particularly good for particular fishes. But for the Trout, the dew-worm,
which some also call the lob-worm, and the brandling, are the chief; and especially the first
for a great Trout, and the latter for a less. There be also of lob-worms, some called squirrel-tails,
a worm that has a red head, a streak down the back, and a broad tail, which are noted to be
the best, because they are the toughest and most lively, and live longest in the water; for
you are to know that a dead worm is but a dead bait, and like to catch nothing, compared to
a lively, quick, stirring worm. And for a brandling, he is usually found in an old dunghill,
or some very rotten place near to it, but most usually in cow-dung, or hog's-dung, rather than
horse-dung, which is somewhat too hot and dry for that worm. But the best of them are to be
found in the bark of the tanners, which they cast up in heaps after they have used it about
their leather.

There are also divers other kinds of worms, which, for colour and shape, alter even as the
ground out of which they are got; as the marsh- worm, the tag-tail, the flag-worm, the dock-worm,
the oak-worm, the gilt-tail, the twachel or lob-worm, which of all others is the most excellent
bait for a salmon, and too many to name, even as many sorts as some think there be of several
herbs or shrubs, or of several kinds of birds in the air: of which I shall say no more, but
tell you, that what worms soever you fish with, are the better for being well scoured, that
is, long kept before they be used: and in case you have not been so provident, then the way
to cleanse and scour them quickly, is, to put them all night in water, if they be lob-worms,
and then put them into your bag with fennel. But you must not put your brandlings above an
hour in water, and then put them into fennel, for sudden use: but if you have time, and purpose
to keep them long, then they be best preserved in an earthen pot, with good store of moss,
which is to be fresh every three or four days in summer, and every week or eight days in winter;
or, at least, the moss taken from them, and clean washed, and wrung betwixt your hands till
it be dry, and then put it to them again. And when your worms, especially the brandling, begins
to be sick and lose of his bigness, then you may recover him, by putting a little milk or cream,
about a spoonful in a day, into them, by drops on the moss; and if there be added to the cream
an egg beaten and boiled in it, then it will both fatten and preserve them long. And note,
that when the knot, which is near to the middle of the brandling, begins to swell, then he
is sick; and, if he be not well looked to, is near dying. And for moss, you are to note, that
there be divers kinds of it, which I could name to you, but I will only tell you that that
which is likest a buck's-horn is the best, except it be soft white moss, which grows on some
heaths, and is hard to be found. And note, that in a very dry time, when you are put to an
extremity for worms, walnut-tree leaves squeezed into water, or salt in water, to make it bitter
or salt, and then that water poured on the ground where you shall see worms are used to rise
in the night, will make them to appear above ground presently. And you may take notice, some
say that camphire put into your bag with your moss and worms gives them a strong and so tempting
a smell, that the fish fare the worse and you the better for it.

And now, I shall shew you how to bait your hook with a worm so as shall prevent you from much
trouble, and the loss of many a hook, too, when you fish for a Trout with a running line; that
is to say, when you fish for him by hand at the ground. I will direct you in this as plainly
as I can, that you may not mistake.

Suppose it be a big lob-worm: put your hook into him somewhat above the middle, and out again
a little below the middle: having so done, draw your worm above the arming of your hook; but
note, that, at the entering of your hook, it must not be at the head-end of the worm, but at
the tail-end of him, that the point of your hook may come out toward the head-end; and, having
drawn him above the arming of your hook, then put the point of your hook again into the very
head of the worm, till it come near to the place where the point of the hook first came out,
and then draw back that part of the worm that was above the shank or arming of your hook, and
so fish with it. And if you mean to fish with two worms, then put the second on before you
turn back the hook's- head of the first worm. You cannot lose above two or three worms before
you attain to what I direct you; and having attained it, you will find it very useful, and
thank me for it: for you will run on the ground without tangling.

Now for the Minnow or Penk: he is not easily found and caught till March, or in April, for
then he appears first in the river; nature having taught him to shelter and hide himself, in
the winter, in ditches that be near to the river; and there both to hide, and keep himself
warm, in the mud, or in the weeds, which rot not so soon as in a running river, in which place
if he were in winter, the distempered floods that are usually in that season would suffer him
to take no rest, but carry him headlong to mills and weirs, to his confusion. And of these
Minnows: first, you are to know, that the biggest size is not the best; and next, that the
middle size and the whitest are the best; and then you are to know, that your minnow must be
so put on your hook, that it must turn round when 'tis drawn against the stream; and, that
it may turn nimbly, you must put it on a big-sized hook, as I shall now direct you, which is
thus: Put your hook in at his mouth, and out at his gill; then, having drawn your hook two
or three inches beyond or through his gill, put it again into his mouth, and the point and
beard out at his tail; and then tie the hook and his tail about, very neatly, with a white
thread, which will make it the apter to turn quick in the water; that done, pull back that
part of your line which was slack when you did put your hook into the minnow the second time;
I say, pull that part of your line back, so that it shall fasten the head, so that the body
of the minnow shall be almost straight on your hook: this done, try how it will turn, by drawing
it across the water or against a stream; and if it do not turn nimbly, then turn the tail a
little to the right or left hand, and try again, till it turn quick; for if not, you are in
danger to catch nothing: for know, that it is impossible that it should turn too quick. And
you are yet to know, that in case you want a minnow, then a small loach, or a stickle-bag,
or any other small fish that will turn quick, will serve as well. And you are yet to know that
you may salt them, and by that means keep them ready and fit for use three or four days, or
longer; and that, of salt, bay-salt is the best.

And here let me tell you, what many old anglers know right well, that at some times, and in
some waters, a minnow is not to be got; and therefore, let me tell you, I have, which I will
shew to you, an artificial minnow, that will catch a Trout as well as an artificial fly: and
it was made by a handsome woman that had a fine hand, and a live minnow lying by her: the mould
or body of the minnow was cloth, and wrought upon, or over it, thus, with a needle; the back
of it with very sad French green silk, and paler green silk towards the belly, shadowed as
perfectly as you can imagine, just as you see a minnow: the belly was wrought also with a needle,
and it was, a part of it, white silk; and another part of it with silver thread: the tail and
fins were of a quill, which was shaven thin: the eyes were of two little black beads: and the
head was so shadowed, and all of it so curiously wrought, and so exactly dissembled, that it
would beguile any sharp-sighted Trout in a swift stream. And this minnow I will now shew you;
look, here it is, and, if you like it, lend it you, to have two or three made by it; for they
be easily carried about an angler, and be of excellent use: for note, that a large Trout will
come as fiercely at a minnow as the highest-mettled hawk doth seize on a partridge, or a greyhound
on a hare. I have been told that one hundred and sixty minnows have been found in a Trout's
belly: either the Trout had devoured so many, or the miller that gave it a friend of mine had
forced them down his throat after he had taken him.

Now for Flies; which is the third bait wherewith Trouts are usually taken. You are to know,
that there are so many sorts of flies as there be of fruits: I will name you but some of them;
as the dun-fly, the stone- fly, the red-fly, the moor-fly, the tawny-fly, the shell-fly, the
cloudy or blackish-fly, the flag-fly, the vine-fly; there be of flies, caterpillars, and canker-flies,
and bear-flies; and indeed too many either for me to name, or for you to remember. And their
breeding is so various and wonderful, that I might easily amaze myself, and tire you in a relation
of them.

And, yet, I will exercise your promised patience by saying a little of the caterpillar, or
the palmer-fly or worm; that by them you may guess what a work it were, in a discourse, but
to run over those very many flies, worms, and little living creatures, with which the sun and
summer adorn and beautify the river-banks and meadows, both for the recreation and contemplation
of us anglers; pleasures which, I think, myself enjoy more than any other man that is not of
my profession.

Pliny holds an opinion, that many have their birth, or being, from a dew that in the spring
falls upon the leaves of trees; and that some kinds of them are from a dew left upon herbs
or flowers; and others from a dew left upon coleworts or cabbages: all which kinds of dews
being thickened and condensed, are by the sun's generative heat, most of them, hatched, and
in three days made living creatures. and these of several shapes and colours; some being hard
and tough, some smooth and soft; some are horned in their head, some in their tail, some have
none; some have hair, some none: some have sixteen feet, some less, and some have none: but,
as our Topsel hath with great diligence observed, those which have none, move upon the earth,
or upon broad leaves, their motion being not unlike to the waves of the sea. Some of them he
also observes to be bred of the eggs of other caterpillars, and that those in their time turn
to be butterflies; and again, that their eggs turn the following year to be caterpillars And
some affirm, that every plant has its particular fly or caterpillar, which it breeds and feeds.
I have seen, and may therefore affirm it, a green caterpillar, or worm, as big as a small peascod,
which had fourteen legs; eight on the belly, four under the neck, and two near the tail. It
was found on a hedge of privet; and was taken thence, and put into a large box, and a little
branch or two of privet put to it, on which I saw it feed as sharply as a dog gnaws a bone:
it lived thus, five or six days, and thrived, and changed the colour two or three times but
by some neglect in the keeper of it, it then died and did not turn to a fly: but if it had
lived, it had doubtless turned to one of those flies that some call Flies of prey, which those
that walk by the rivers may, in summer, see fasten on smaller flies, and, I think, make them
their food. And 'tis observable, that as there be these flies of prey, which be very large;
so there be others, very little, created, I think, only to feed them, and breed out of I know
not what; whose life, they say, nature intended not to exceed an hour; and yet that life is
thus made shorter by other flies, or accident.

'Tis endless to tell you what the curious searchers into nature's productions have observed
of these worms and flies: but yet I shall tell you what Aldrovandus, our Topsel, and others,
say of the Palmer-worm, or Caterpillar: that whereas others content themselves to feed on particular
herbs or leaves; for most think, those very leaves that gave them life and shape, give them
a particular feeding and nourishment, and that upon them they usually abide; yet he observes,
that this is called a pilgrim, or palmer-worm, for his very wandering life, and various food;
not contenting himself, as others do, with any one certain place for his abode, nor any certain
kind of herb or flower for his feeding, but will boldly and disorderly wander up and down,
and not endure to be kept to a diet, or fixt to a particular place.

Nay, the very colours of caterpillars are, as one has observed, very elegant and beautiful
I shall, for a taste of the rest, describe one of them; which I will, some time the next month,
shew you feeding on a willow-tree; and you shall find him punctually to answer this very description:
his lips and mouth somewhat yellow; his eyes black as jet; his forehead purple; his feet and
hinder parts green; his tail two-forked and black; the whole body stained with a kind of red
spots, which run along the neck and shoulder-blade, not unlike the form of St. Andrew's cross,
or the letter X, made thus crosswise, and a white line drawn down his back to his tail; all
which add much beauty to his whole body. And it is to me observable, that at a fixed age this
caterpillar gives over to eat, and towards winter comes to be covered over with a strange shell
or crust, called an aurelia; and so lives a kind of dead life, without eating all the winter.
And as others of several kinds turn to be several kinds of flies and vermin, the Spring following;
so this caterpillar then turns to be a painted butterfly.

Come, come, my scholar, you see the river stops our morning walk: and I will also here stop
my discourse: only as we sit down under this honeysuckle hedge, whilst I look a line to fit
the rod that our brother Peter hath lent you, I shall, for a little confirmation of what I
have said, repeat the observation of Du Bartas:

God, not contented to each kind to give And to infuse the virtue generative, Made, by his wisdom,
many creatures breed Of lifeless bodies. without Venus' deed.

So, the cold humour breeds the Salamander, Who, in effect, like to her birth's commander, With
child with hundred winters, with her touch Quencheth the fire, tho'glowing ne'er so much.

So of the fire, in burning furnace, springs The fly Pyrausta with the flaming wings: Without
the fire, it dies: within it joys, Living in that which each shine else destroys.

So, slow Boôtes underneath him sees In th' icy isles those goslings hatch'd of trees; Whose
fruitful leaves, falling into the water, Are turn'd, they say, to living fowls soon after.

So, rotten sides of broken ships do change To barnacles. O transformation strange! 'Twas first
a green tree; then, a gallant hull; Lately a mushroom; now, a flying gull. And because you
shall not think yourself more engaged to me than indeed you really are, I will freely give
you such directions as were lately given to me by an ingenious brother of the angle, an honest
man, and a most excellent fly-fisher.

You are to note, that there are twelve kinds of artificial made Flies, to angle with upon the
top of the water. Note, by the way, that the fittest season of using these is in a blustering
windy day, when the waters are so troubled that the natural fly cannot be seen, or rest upon
them. The first is the dun-fly, in March: the body is made of dun wool; the wings, of the partridge's
feathers. The second is another dun-fly: the body, of black wool; and the wings made of the
black drake's feathers, and of the feathers under his tail. The third is the stone-fly, in
April: the body is made of black wool; made yellow under the wings and under the tail, and
so made with wings of the drake. The fourth is the ruddy-fly, in the beginning of May: the
body made of red wool, wrapt about with black silk; and the feathers are the wings of the drake;
with the feathers of a red capon also, which hang dangling on his sides next to the tail. The
fifth is the yellow or greenish fly, in May likewise: the body made of yellow wool; and the
wings made of the red cock's hackle or tail. The sixth is the black-fly, in May also: the body
made of black wool, and lapt about with the herle of a peacock's tail: the wings are made of
the wings of a brown capon, with his blue feathers in his head. The seventh is the sad yellow-fly
in June: the body is made of black wool, with a yellow list on either side; and the wings taken
off the wings of a buzzard, bound with black braked hemp. The eighth is the moorish-fly; made,
with the body, of duskish wool; and the wings made of the blackish mail of the drake. The ninth
is the t-fly-fly, good until the middle of June: the body made of tawny wool; the wings made
contrary one against the other, made of the whitish mail of the wild drake. The tenth is the
wasp-fly in July; the body made of black wool, lapt about with yellow silk; the wings made
of the feathers of the drake, or of the buzzard. The twelfth is the dark drake- fly, good in
August: the body made with black wool, lapt about with black silk; his wings are made with
the mail of the black drake, with a black head. Thus have you a jury of flies, likely to betray
and condemn all the Trouts in the river.

I shall next give you some other directions for fly-fishing, such as are given by Mr. Thomas
Barker, a gentleman that hath spent much time in fishing: but I shall do it with a little variation.

First, let your rod be light, and very gentle: I take the best to be of two pieces. And let
not your line exceed, especially for three or four links next to the hook, I say, not exceed
three or four hairs at the most; though you may fish a little stronger above, in the upper
part of your line: but if you can attain to angle with one hair, you shall have more rises,
and catch more fish. Now you must be sure not to cumber yourself with too long a line, as most
do. And before you begin to angle, cast to have the wind on your back; and the sun, if it shines,
to be before you; and to fish down the stream; and carry the point or top of your rod downward,
by which means the shadow of yourself and rod too, will be the least offensive to the fish,
for the sight of any shade amazes the fish, and spoils your sport, of which you must take great
care.

In the middle of March, till which time a man should not in honesty catch a Trout; or in April,
it the weather be dark, or a little windy or cloudy; the best fishing is with the palmer-worm,
of which I last spoke to you; but of these there be divers kinds, or at least of divers colours:
these and the May-fly are the ground of all fly-angling: which are to be thus made:

First, you must arm your hook with the line, in the inside of it: then take your scissors,
and cut so much of a brown mallard's feather as, in your own reason, will make the wings of
it, you having, withal, regard to the bigness or littleness of your hook; then lay the outmost
part of your feather next to your hook; then the point of your feather next the shank of your
hook, and, having so done, whip it three or four times about the hook with the same silk with
which your hook was armed; and having made the silk fast, take the hackle of a cock or capon's
neck, or a plover's top, which is usually better: take off the one side of the feather, and
then take the hackle, silk or crewel, gold or silver thread; make these fast at the bent of
the hook, that is to say, below your arming; then you must take the hackle, the silver or gold
thread, and work it up to the wings, shifting or still removing your finger as you turn the
silk about the hook, and still looking, at every stop or turn, that your gold, or what materials
soever you make your fly of, do lie right and neatly; and if you find they do so, then when
you have made the head, make all fast: and then work your hackle up to the head, and make that
fast: and then, with a needle, or pin, divide the wing into two; and then, with the arming
silk, whip it about cross-ways betwixt the wings: and then with your thumb you must turn the
point of the feather towards the bent of the hook; and then work three or four times about
the shank of the hook; and then view the proportion; and if all be neat, and to your liking,
fasten.

I confess, no direction can be given to make a man of a dull capacity able to make a fly well:
and yet I know this, with a little practice, will help an ingenious angler in a good degree.
But to see a fly made by an artist in that kind, is the best teaching to make it. And, then,
an ingenious angler may walk by the river, and mark what flies fall on the water that day;
and catch one of them, if he sees the Trouts leap at a fly of that kind: and then having always
hooks ready-hung with him, and having a bag always with him, with bear's hair, or the hair
of a brown or sad-coloured heifer, hackles of a cock or capon, several coloured silk and crewel
to make the body of the fly, the feathers of a drake's head, black or brown sheep's wool, or
hog's wool, or hair, thread of gold and of silver; silk of several colours, especially sad-coloured,
to make the fly's head: and there be also other coloured feathers, both of little birds and
of speckled fowl: I say, having those with him in a bag, and trying to make a fly, though he
miss at first, yet shall he at last hit it better, even to such a perfection as none can well
teach him And if he hit to make his fly right, and have the luck to hit, also, where there
is store of Trouts, a dark day, and a right wind, he will catch such store of them, as will
encourage him to grow more and more in love with the art of fly- making.

Venator. But, my loving master, if any wind will not serve, then I wish I were in Lapland,
to buy a good wind of one of the honest witches, that sell so many winds there, and so cheap.

Piscator.

But first for the wind: you are to take notice that of the winds the south wind is said to
be best. One observes, that

when the wind is south, It blows your bait into a fish's mouth.

Next to that, the west wind is believed to be the best: and having told you that the east wind
is the worst, I need not tell you which wind is the best in the third degree: and yet, as Solomon
observes, that " he that considers the wind shall never sow "; so he that busies his head too
much about them, if the weather be not made extreme cold by an east wind, shall be a little
superstitious: for as it is observed by some, that " there is no good horse of a bad colour";
so I have observed, that if it be a cloudy day, and not extreme cold, let the wind sit in what
corner it will and do its worst, I heed it not. And yet take this for a rule, that I would
willingly fish, standing on the lee-shore: and you are to take notice, that the fish lies or
swims nearer the bottom, and in deeper water, in winter than in summer; and also nearer the
bottom in any cold day, and then gets nearest the lee-side of the water.

But I promised to tell you more of the Fly-fishing for a Trout; which I may have time enough
to do, for you see it rains May butter. First for a Mayfly: you may make his body with greenish-coloured
crewel, or willowish colour; darkening it in most places with waxed silk; or ribbed with black
hair; or, some of them, ribbed with silver thread; and such wings, for the colour, as you see
the fly to have at that season, nay, at that very day on the water. Or you may make the Oak-fly:
with an orange, tawny, and black ground; and the brown of a mallard's feather for the wings.
And you are to know, that these two are most excellent flies, that is, the May-fly and the Oak-fly.

And let me again tell you, that you keep as far from the water as you can possibly, whether
you fish with a fly or worm; and fish down the stream. And when you fish with a fly, if it
be possible, let no part of your line touch the water, but your fly only; and be still moving
your fly upon the water, or casting it into the water, you yourself being also always moving
down the stream.

Mr. Barker commends several sorts of the palmer-flies; not only those ribbed with silver and
gold, but others that have their bodies all made of black; or some with red, and a red hackle.
You may also make the Hawthorn-fly: which is all black, and not big, but very small, the smaller
the better. Or the oak-fly, the body of which is orange colour and black crewel, with a brown
wing. Or a fly made with a peacock's feather is excellent in a bright day: you must be sure
you want not in your magazine-bag the peacock's feather; and grounds of such wool and crewel
as will make the grasshopper. And note, that usually the smallest flies are the best; and note
also, that the light fly does usually make most sport in a dark day, and the darkest and least
fly in a bright or clear day: and lastly note, that you are to repair upon any occasion to
your magazine-bag: and upon any occasion, vary and make them lighter or sadder, according to
your fancy, or the day.

And now I shall tell you, that the fishing with a natural-fly is excellent, and affords much
pleasure. They may be found thus: the May-fly, usually in and about that month, near to the
river-side, especially against rain: the Oak-fly, on the butt or body of an oak or ash, from
the beginning of May to the end of August; it is a brownish fly and easy to be so found, and
stands usually with his head downward, that is to say, towards the root of the tree: the small
black-fly, or Hawthorn-fly, is to be had on any hawthorn bush after the leaves be come forth.
With these and a short line, as I shewed to angle for a Chub, you may cape or cop, and also
with a grasshopper, behind a tree, or in any deep hole; still making it to move on the top
of the water as if it were alive, and still keeping yourself out of sight, you shall certainly
have sport if there be Trouts; yea, in a hot day, but especially in the evening of a hot day,
you will have sport.

And since you like these verses of Mr. Herbert's so well, let me tell you what a reverend and
learned divine that professes to imitate him, and has indeed done so most excellently, hath
writ of our book of Common Prayer; which I know you will like the better, because he is a friend
of mine, and I am sure no enemy to angling.

What ! Pray'r by th' book ? and Common ? Yes; Why not ?

The spirit of grace And supplication Is not left free alone For time and place, But manner
too: to read, or speak, by rote, Is all alike to him that prays, In's heart. what with his
mouth he says.

They that in private, by themselves alone, Do pray, may take What liberty they please, In chusing
of the ways Wherein to make Their soul's most intimate affections known To him that sees in
secret, when Th' are most conceal'd from other men.

But he, that unto others leads the way In public prayer, Should do it so, As all, that hear,
may know They need not fear To tune their hearts unto his tongue, and say Amen; not doubt they
were betray'd To blaspheme, when they meant to have pray'd.

Devotion will add life unto the letter: And why should not That, which authority Prescribes,
esteemed be Advantage got ? If th' prayer be good, the commoner the better, Prayer in the Church's
words, as well As sense, of all prayers bears the bell.

I'll tell you, scholar; when I sat last on this primrose-bank, and looked down these meadows,
I thought of them as Charles the emperor did of the city of Florence: " That they were too
pleasant to be looked on, but only on holy-days ". As I then sat on this very grass, I turned
my present thoughts into verse: 'twas a Wish, which I'll repeat to you:-

The Angler's wish.

When I had ended this composure, I left this place, and saw a brother of the angle sit under
that honeysuckle hedge, one that will prove worth your acquaintance. I sat down by him, and
presently we met with an accidental piece of merriment, which I will relate to you, for it
rains still.

On the other side of this very hedge sat a gang of gypsies; and near to them sat a gang of
beggars. The gypsies were then to divide all the money that had been got that week, either
by stealing linen or poultry, or by fortune-telling or legerdemain, or, indeed, by any other
sleights and secrets belonging to their mysterious government. And the sum that was got that
week proved to be but twenty and some odd shillings. The odd money was agreed to be distributed
amongst the poor of their own corporation: and for the remaining twenty shillings, that was
to be divided unto four gentlemen gypsies, according to their several degrees in their commonwealth.
And the first or chiefest gypsy was, by consent, to have a third part of the twenty shillings,
which all men know is 6s. 8d. The second was to have a fourth part of the 20s., which all men
know to be 5s. The third was to have a fifth part of the 20s., which all men know to be 4s.
The fourth and last gypsy was to have a sixth part of the 20s., which all men know to be 3s. 4d.

As for example, 3 times 6s. 8d. are 20s. And so is 4 times 5s. are 20s. And so is 5 times 4s.
are 20s. And so is 6 times 3s. 4d. are 20s.

And yet he that divided the money was so very a gypsy, that though he gave to every one these
said sums, yet he kept one shilling of it for himself

As, for example,    s.   d.
                               6   8
                               5   0
                               4   0
                               3   4

make but . . . . . .  19   0

But now you shall know, that when the four gypsies saw that he had got one shilling by dividing
the money, though not one of them knew any reason to demand more, yet, like lords and courtiers,
every gypsy envied him that was the gainer; and wrangled with him; and every one said the remaining
shilling belonged to him; and so they fell to so high a contest about it, as none that knows
the faithfulness of one gypsy to another will easily believe; only we that have lived these
last twenty years are certain that money has been able to do much mischief. However, the gypsies
were too wise to go to law, and did therefore choose their choice friends Rook and Shark, and
our late English Gusman, to be their arbitrators and umpires. And so they left this honeysuckle
hedge; and went to tell fortunes and cheat, and get more money and lodging in the next village.

When these were gone, we heard as high a contention amongst the beggars, whether it was easiest
to rip a cloak, or to unrip a cloak ? One beggar affirmed it was all one: but that was denied,
by asking her, If doing and undoing were all one? Then another said, 'twas easiest to unrip
a cloak; for that was to let it alone: but she was answered, by asking her, how she unript
it if she let it alone ? and she confess herself mistaken. These and twenty such like questions
were proposed and answered, with as much beggarly logick and earnestness as was ever heard
to proceed from the mouth of the pertinacious schismatick; and sometimes all the beggars, whose
number was neither more nor less than the poets' nine muses, talked all together about this
ripping and unripping; and so loud, that not one heard what the other said: but, at last, one
beggar craved audience; and told them that old father Clause, whom Ben Jonson, in his Beggar's
Bush, created King of their corporation, was to lodge at an ale-house, called " Catch-her-by-the-
way," not far from Waltham Cross, and in the high road towards London; and he therefore desired
them to spend no more time about that and such like questions, but refer all to father Clause
at night, for he was an upright judge, and in the meantime draw cuts, what song should be next
sung, and who should sing it. They all agreed to the motion; and the lot fell to her that was
the youngest, and veriest virgin of the company. And she sung Frank Davison's song, which he
made forty years ago; and all the others of the company joined to sing the burthen with her.

What noise of viols is so sweet, As when our merry clappers ring ? What mirth doth want where
Beggars meet ? A Beggar's life is for a King. Eat, drink, and play, sleep when we list Go where
we will, so stocks be mist.

The world is ours, and ours alone; For we alone have world at will We purchase not, all is
our own; Both fields and streets we Beggars fill. Nor care to get, nor fear to keep, Did ever
break a Beggar's sleep, Play, Beggars, play; play, Beggars, play; Here's scraps enough to serve
to-day.

A hundred head of black and white Upon our gowns securely feed If any dare his master bite
He dies therefore, as sure as creed. Thus Beggars lord it as they please; And only Beggars
live at ease.

Venator. I thank you, good master, for this piece of merriment, and this song, which was well
humoured by the maker, and well remembered by you.

Piscator. But, I pray, forget not the catch which you promised to make against night; for our
countryman, honest Coridon, will expect your catch, and my song, which I must be forced to
patch up, for it is so long since I learnt it, that I have forgot a part of it. But, come,
now it hath done raining, let's stretch our legs a little in a gentle walk to the river, and
try what interest our angles will pay us for lending them so long to be used by the Trouts;
lent them indeed, like usurers, for our profit and their destruction.

Venator. Oh me! look you, master, a fish! a fish! Oh, alas, master, I have lost her.

Piscator. Ay marry, Sir, that was a good fish indeed: if I had had the luck to have taken up
that rod, then 'tis twenty to one he should not have broken my line by running to the rod's
end, as you suffered him. I would have held him within the bent of my rod, unless he had been
fellow to the great Trout that is near an ell long, which was of such a length and depth, that
he had his picture drawn, and now is to be seen at mine host Rickabie's, at the George in Ware,
and it may be, by giving that very great Trout the rod, that is, by casting it to him into
the water, I might have caught him at the long run, for so I use always to do when I meet with
an over-grown fish; and you will learn to do so too, hereafter, for I tell you, scholar, fishing
is an art, or, at least, it is an art to catch fish.

Venator. But, master, I have heard that the great Trout you speak of is a Salmon.

Piscator. Trust me, scholar, I know not what to say to it. There are many country people that
believe hares change sexes every year: and there be very many learned men think so too, for
in their dissecting them they find many reasons to incline them to that belief. And to make
the wonder seem yet less, that hares change sexes, note that Dr. Mer. Casaubon affirms, in
his book " Of credible and incredible things," that Gasper Peucerus, a learned physician, tells
us of a people that once a year turn wolves, partly in shape, and partly in conditions. And
so, whether this were a Salmon when he came into fresh water, and his not returning into the
sea hath altered him to another colour or kind, I am not able to say; but I am certain he hath
all the signs of being a Trout, both for his shape, colour, and spots; and yet many think he
is not.

Venator. But, master, will this Trout which I had hold of die ? for it is like he hath the
hook in his belly.

Piscator. I will tell you, scholar, that unless the hook be fast in his very gorge, 'tis more
than probable he will live, and a little time, with the help of the water, will rust the hook,
and it will in time wear away, as the gravel doth in the horse-hoof, which only leaves a false
quarter.

And now, scholar, let's go to my rod. Look you, scholar, I have a fish too, but it proves a
logger-headed Chub: and this is not much amiss, for this will pleasure some poor body, as we
go to our lodging to meet our brother Peter and honest Coridon. Come, now bait your hook again,
and lay it into the water, for it rains again; and we will even retire to the Sycamore-tree,
and there I will give you more directions concerning fishing, for I would fain make you an artist.

Venator. Yes, good master, I pray let it be so.

Piscator. Well, scholar, now that we are sate down and are at ease, I shall tell you a little
more of Trout-fishing, before I speak of the Salmon, which I purpose shall be next, and then
of the Pike or Luce.

You are to know, there is night as well as day fishing for a Trout; and that, in the night,
the best Trouts come out of their holes. And the manner of taking them is on the top of the
water with a great lob or garden-worm, or rather two, which you are to fish with in a stream
where the waters run somewhat quietly, for in a stream the bait will not be so well discerned.
I say, in a quiet or dead place, near to some swift, there draw your bait over the top of the
water, to and fro, and if there be a good Trout in the hole, he will take it, especially if
the night be dark, for then he is bold, and lies near the top of the water, watching the motion
of any frog or water-rat, or mouse, that swims betwixt him and the sky; these he hunts after,
if he sees the water but wrinkle or move in one of these dead holes, where these great old
Trouts usually lie, near to their holds; for you are to note, that the great old Trout is both
subtle and fearful, and lies close all day, and does not usually stir out of his hold, but
lies in it as close in the day as the timorous hare does in her form; for the chief feeding
of either is seldom in the day, but usually in the night, and then the great Trout feeds very
boldly.

And you must fish for him with a strong line, and not a little hook; and let him have time
to gorge your hook, for he does not usually forsake it, as he oft will in the day-fishing.
And if the night be not dark, then fish so with an artificial fly of a light colour, and at
the snap: nay, he will sometimes rise at a dead mouse, or a piece of cloth, or anything that
seems to swim across the water, or to be in motion. This is a choice way, but I have not oft
used it, because it is void of the pleasures that such days as these, that we two now enjoy,
afford an angler

And you are to know, that in Hampshire, which I think exceeds all England for swift, shallow,
clear, pleasant brooks, and store of Trouts, they used to catch Trouts in the night, by the
light of a torch or straw, which, when they have discovered, they strike with a Trout-spear,
or other ways. This kind of way they catch very many: but I would not believe it till I was
an eye-witness of it, nor do I like it now I have seen it.

Venator. But, master, do not Trouts see us in the night?

Piscator Yes, and hear, and smell too, both then and in the day-time: for Gesner observes,
the Otter smells a fish forty furlongs off him in the water: and that it may be true, seems
to be affirmed by Sir Francis Bacon, in the eighth century of his Natural History, who there
proves that waters may be the medium of sounds, by demonstrating it thus: " That if you knock
two stones together very deep under the water, those that stand on a bank near to that place
may hear the noise without any diminution of it by the water " . He also offers the like experiment
concerning the letting an anchor fall, by a very long cable or rope, on a rock, or the sand,
within the sea. And this being so well observed and demonstrated as it is by that learned man,
has made me to believe that Eels unbed themselves and stir at the noise of thunder, and not
only, as some think, by the motion or stirring of the earth which is occasioned by that thunder.

And this reason of Sir Francis Bacon has made me crave pardon of one that I laughed at for
affirming that he knew Carps come to a certain place, in a pond, to be fed at the ringing of
a bell or the beating of a drum. And, however, it shall be a rule for me to make as little
noise as I can when I am fishing, until Sir Francis Bacon be confuted, which I shall give any
man leave to do.

And lest you may think him singular in this opinion, I will tell you, this seems to be believed
by our learned Doctor Hakewill, who in his Apology of God's power and providence, quotes Pliny
to report that one of the emperors had particular fish-ponds, and, in them, several fish that
appeared and came when they were called by their particular names. And St. James tells us,
that all things in the sea have been tamed by mankind. And Pliny tells us, that Antonia, the
wife of Drusus, had a Lamprey at whose gills she hung jewels or ear-rings; and that others
have been so tender-hearted as to shed tears at the death of fishes which they have kept and
loved. And these observations, which will to most hearers seem wonderful, seem to have a further
confirmation from Martial, who writes thus:-

Piscator, fuge; ne nocens, etc.

Angler ! would'st thou be guiltless ? then forbear; For these are sacred fishes that swim here,
Who know their sovereign, and will lick his hand, Than which none's greater in the world's
command; Nay more they've names, and, when they called are, Do to their several owner's call
repair.

All the further use that I shall make of this shall be, to advise anglers to be patient, and
forbear swearing, lest they be heard, and catch no fish.

And so I shall proceed next to tell you, it is certain that certain fields near Leominster,
a town in Herefordshire, are observed to make the sheep that graze upon them more fat than
the next, and also to bear finer wool; that is to say, that that year in which they feed in
such a particular pasture, they shall yield finer wool than they did that year before they
came to feed in it; and coarser, again, if they shall return to their former pasture; and,
again, return to a finer wool, being fed in the fine wool ground: which I tell you, that you
may the better believe that I am certain, if I catch a Trout in one meadow, he shall be white
and faint, and very like to be lousy; and, as certainly, it I catch a Trout in the next meadow,
he shall be strong, and red, and lusty, and much better meat Trust me, scholar, I have caught
many a Trout in a particular meadow, that the very shape and the enamelled colour of him hath
been such as hath joyed me to look on him: and I have then, with much pleasure, concluded with
Solomon, "Everything is beautiful in his season".

I should, by promise, speak next of the Salmon; but I will, by your favour, say a little of
the Umber or Grayling; which is so like a Trout for his shape and feeding, that I desire I
may exercise your patience with a short discourse of him; and then, the next shall be of the
Salmon.

The fourth day - continued

The Umber or Grayling

Chapter VI

Piscator

The Umber and Grayling are thought by some to differ as the Herring and Pilchard do. But though
they may do so in other nations, I think those in England differ nothing but in their names.
Aldrovandus says, they be of a Trout kind; and Gesner says, that in his country, which is Switzerland,
he is accounted the choicest of all fish. And in Italy, he is, in the month of May, so highly
valued, that he is sold there at a much higher rate than any other fish. The French, which
call the Chub Un Villain, call the Umber of the lake Leman Un Umble Chevalier; and they value
the Umber or Grayling so highly, that they say he feeds on gold; and say, that many have been
caught out of their famous river of Loire, out of whose bellies grains of gold have been often
taken. And some think that he feeds on water thyme, and smells of it at his first taking out
of the water; and they may think so with as good reason as we do that our Smelts smell like
violets at their being first caught, which I think is a truth. Aldrovandus says, the Salmon,
the Grayling, and Trout, and all fish that live in clear and sharp streams, are made by their
mother Nature of such exact shape and pleasant colours purposely to invite us to a joy and
contentedness in feasting with her. Whether this is a truth or not, is not my purpose to dispute:
but 'tis certain, all that write of the Umber declare him to be very medicinable. And Gesner
says, that the fat of an Umber or Grayling, being set, with a little honey, a day or two in
the sun, in a little glass, is very excellent against redness or swarthiness, or anything that
breeds in the eyes. Salvian takes him to be called Umber from his swift swimming, or gliding
out of sight more like a shadow or a ghost than a fish. Much more might be said both of his
smell and taste: but I shall only tell you that St. Ambrose, the glorious bishop of Milan,
who lived when the church kept fasting-days, calls him the flower-fish, or flower of fishes;
and that he was so far in love with him, that he would not let him pass without the honour
of a long discourse; but I must; and pass on to tell you how to take this dainty fish.

First note, that he grows not to the bigness of a Trout; for the biggest of them do not usually
exceed eighteen inches. He lives in such rivers as the Trout does; and is usually taken with
the same baits as the Trout is, and after the same manner; for he will bite both at the minnow,
or worm, or fly, though he bites not often at the minnow, and is very gamesome at the fly;
and much simpler, and therefore bolder than a Trout; for he will rise twenty times at a fly,
if you miss him, and yet rise again. He has been taken with a fly made of the red feathers
of a paroquet, a strange outlandish bird; and he will rise at a fly not unlike a gnat, or a
small moth, or, indeed, at most flies that are not too big. He is a fish that lurks close all
Winter, but is very pleasant and jolly after mid-April, and in May, and in the hot months.
He is of a very fine shape, his flesh is white, his teeth, those little ones that he has, are
in his throat, yet he has so tender a mouth, that he is oftener lost after an angler has hooked
him than any other fish. Though there be many of these fishes in the delicate river Dove, and
in Trent, and some other smaller rivers, as that which runs by Salisbury, yet he is not so
general a fish as the Trout, nor to me so good to eat or to angle for. And so I shall take
my leave of him: and now come to some observations of the Salmon, and how to catch him.

The fourth day - continued

The Salmon

Chapter VII

Piscator

The Salmon is accounted the King of freshwater fish; and is ever bred in rivers relating to
the sea, yet so high. or far from it, as admits of no tincture of salt, or brackishness. He
is said to breed or cast his spawn, in most rivers, in the month of August: some say, that
then they dig a hole or grave in a safe place in the gravel, and there place their eggs or
spawn, after the melter has done his natural office, and then hide it most cunningly, and cover
it over with gravel and stones; and then leave it to their Creator's protection, who, by a
gentle heat which he infuses into that cold element, makes it brood, and beget life in the
spawn, and to become Samlets early in the spring next following.

The Salmons having spent their appointed time, and done this natural duty in the fresh waters,
they then haste to the sea before winter, both the melter and spawner; but if they be stops
by flood-gates or weirs, or lost in the fresh waters, then those so left behind by degrees
grow sick and lean, and unseasonable, and kipper, that is to say, have bony gristles grow out
of their lower chaps, not unlike a hawk's beak, which hinders their feeding; and, in time,
such fish so left behind pine away and die. 'Tis observed, that he may live thus one year from
the sea; but he then grows insipid and tasteless, and loses both his blood and strength, and
pines and dies the second year. And 'tis noted, that those little Salmons called Skeggers,
which abound in many rivers relating to the sea, are bred by such sick Salmons that might not
go to the sea, and that though they abound, yet they never thrive to any considerable bigness.
And it is to be observed, that though the Salmon does grow big in the sea, yet he grows not
fat but in fresh rivers; and it is observed, that the farther they get from the sea, they be
both the fatter and better.

Next, I shall tell you, that though they make very hard shift to get out of the fresh rivers
into the sea yet they will make harder shift to get out of the salt into the fresh rivers,
to spawn, or possess the pleasures that they have formerly found in them: to which end, they
will force themselves through floodgates, or over weirs, or hedges, or stops in the water,
even to a height beyond common belief. Gesner speaks of such places as are known to be above
eight feet high above water. And our Camden mentions, in his Britannia, the like wonder to
be in Pembrokeshire, where the river Tivy falls into the sea; and that the fall is so downright,
and so high, that the people stand and wonder at the strength and sleight by which they see
the Salmon use to get out of the sea into the said river; and the manner and height of the
place is so notable, that it is known, far, by the name of the Salmon-leap. Concerning which,
take this also out of Michael Drayton, my honest old friend; as he tells it you, in his Polyolbion:

And when the Salmon seeks a fresher stream to find; (Which hither from the sea comes, yearly,
by his kind,) As he towards season grows; and stems the watry tract Where Tivy, falling down,
makes an high cataract, Forc'd by the rising rocks that there her course oppose, As tho' within
her bounds they meant her to inclose; Here when the labouring fish does at the foot arrive,
And finds that by his strength he does but vainly strive; His tail takes in his mouth, and,
bending like a bow That's to full compass drawn, aloft himself doth throw, Then springing at
his height, as doth a little wand That bended end to end, and started from man's hand, Far
off itself doth cast, so does that Salmon vault; And if, at first, he fail, his second summersault
He instantly essays, and, from his nimble ring Still yerking, never leaves until himself he
fling Above the opposing stream.

This Michael Drayton tells you, of this leap or summersault of the Salmon. Will be a gala of the eyes to see go for a trail of rose bushes I know,
arm in arm, Sun, Ana Lucia. Lucia, tomorrow we go. Sol, I will now home to ask permission
to Dona Andrea. Do you think, Lucia and Peter invite Adela Real? Upa, Ana, upa! There I have
some little Indians in the village will give you matter for a Table delicious. Come on, doctor?
- John a hand stroked Ana Lucia kissed her with a kiss gently scolded her and went into the
corridor, speaking as a very happy doctor.

Ana Lucia called for a look, and so I was near him, without speaking, and smiling fortunately,
brought upon his breast with his hands in an effort Lucia and Sun, who were each one to one side
of her, his eyes wandering over their heads, such as talking, retained
long united the hands of both girls on their own.

And Sol Lucia looked so cute way, that as soon as Anna was asleep,
went Lucia Sol, took her by the waist lovingly, and once in his room
began to empty with gestures almost feverish their boxes and drawers.

-
All, all, all for you - and Sun wanted to talk, and she would not
let her -.

Look, try on this hat. I never got what I post. Try it, try it. And this, and this one. These
three are yours. Yes, yes, I say no. Look, suits: one, two, three. This is the prettiest for
you. Do you hear? I'm very fond of Peter Royal. I want you to want to Pedro Real. You look
very pretty. You always look prettier than me. But hear me, John, I do not want. Just leave
John to myself. Enójalo. Treat it wrong. I do not want you to be her friend. No, Do not tell
me anything! yes, it's joke, yes, joke. See? This mauve dress itself is going to be fine. Let's
see, how well does your hair brown. See? It is very new. Does the bra as a chalice flower, a little
straight, not like that now, they look like a glass of champagne: very thin waist, and very
wide shoulders. The skirt is smooth, not pleated or creases; falls under the weight of the silk
to the feet. See? to me is very short. To you I'll be fine. It's a bit wider, to Watteau. My
shepherd! My shepherd! I never have put it. Did you know? I do not like colors. Ah! see: here
- and something to hide two hands locked behind his back - here you are, and not you going to
take ever, although angry we Dona Andrea. Close your eyes.

The closed Sun fortunate to be so loved by her friend, and when opened,
was in arm, and made by taking off with a gesture that Lucy was stopped,
a bracelet of four rings Pearl margaritas.

- Yes, yes, it is very
rich, but I want you to have it.

No, nothing, nothing I say, you know? I have here another black pearl. And never, never take
it away! I want to be very good - and took her two hands, and kissed her passionately on both
cheeks -.

Come, let's see Ana!

And left the room, holding the waist.

At the field, the field! Doña Andrea will not know that Pedro Real, that if he knew, would not
let go Sol: Although John what do you deny it? A John! This, this was what she wanted to Sun
'Well, John, that does not leave the sun a lot. " John asked in vain for the older sister by Sis.
She was at home when he entered, but now no: will be at home in any neighbor. No, sister was there
was in the room, behind the blinds! She saw who did not see it. "Close your eyes, sister, you
see not what you should not see!". And when Juan came out, the blinds are closed, and eyes
that close.

At the field, the field! Four mules pull the carriage with silver necklaces and bells, because
Ana go merrily and mules are tied at the hip left a big red bows, which look good on black
skin. The driver is Pedro Real, which has next to Adela, in Imperial, Juan and Lucia, in, with
older people, which is very respectable, but not us required for the course of the novel, Ana sitting
among pillows, very best with the joy of travel with your notebook in your lap, to copy what you
like the way that already dies which is good, and Sun at his side, dressed Sedille opal color, quiet and
bright like a star.

Real Peter bit his curly mustache when he saw that Sun would not be his partner in the box. And
Adele was very polite. But Anna does not need anything? John, Ana go well? Should down. I'm
going down for a moment, to see if Ana is going well!

Fell many times. And the mules, but dexterous, more than once were some of the road, as if not
quite put into they thought the driver.

He was about six leagues the way, all over to one side and a lush vegetation as there was no way
to have the eyes but ever present and moving. For there in the background was a coconut grove,
or a row of palms that was going to far in the throat two mountains, and was at the edge of
the road, a hill full of blue and yellow flowers that ended in a river of white foam, nourished
by the waters of the mountains, or were already distance, impressive as two messages from earth
to sky, two dormant volcanoes, a Serpa skirt as white-water streams live and mischievous, were collected,
as servants hit at the feet of their masters, ancient cities, toothless and broken, in the
balconies wrought iron, held as by miracle without walls that support them on the doors Stone,
grew up in threads that reached the ground Ipomea heavy vines. Of a church which was painted
ceilings and gilded with fine gold of the oldest of America the capitals of the pillars, left
standing, like a shell stuck in the ground at the edge, the bottom of the altar, sheltered by a half
dome: a grove had grown to love the altar, the interior wall covered with moss, from a distance
gave the appearance of formidable cave; and was common and extremely pleasing to see out from
among the boulders in bloom, at the least noise of people or carts, a flock of pigeons. Another church,
that had not been standing more than the cruise, the dome was completely
green, and side walls of a pink and black as the edges of a wound.

And on the ground could not get the foot to jump over a stream.

They came to the volcanoes, passed through the ancient cities: going beyond, and did not stop.
Lucia, in the shade of her parasol red, it felt like the Lady of all that natural grandeur
and as if the whole world, that was a beautiful painting eyes, had not been made rather than
to sing with its multiple languages ​​Lucia loves of Jerez and its cousin. And She saw herself inside
the skull as if it were full of all those flowers: the happened whenever he was alone with Juan
Jerez next. Adela and Peter spoke of formalism events, which had the virtue of making Adela contemplative
and quiet, giving Peter time to be silent much of the road, which took advantage of him to
hold himself animated symposia: and every moment was that of "John, how is Anne? I'll go down
a moment, see if it offers something to Ana. " And Lucia laughed, and took it for a certainty
that while Sun was a child modest, and told him that Pedro Real seemed fine, and saw that led
him in the soul, what John did not seem a happy event, but it prudently silent. In the chariot,
the sun was all happy exclamations: never, never in his life of poor orphan, Sol had been running
the rivers, forests clothe strong purple and blue bells, and green and flower fields. A coral
pink cheeks dyed it, and onyx from Mexico never had greater transparency than the skin thin sun
that morning of happiness in nature. Ay! good Ana smiled a lot, but had forgotten to lift
of her skirt the notebook.

       

* * * * *

And suddenly sounded a few songs, it darkened the road as a pleasant shade, and refrained mules
the way, with outstretched buckles and bells. Peter was a jump to the door the carriage, next
to Sol, Ana asking what he wanted. But here dropped all and Sun itself, which soon became the
coach, to go with Ana, and encourage them to take the short lunch the other, sitting around
a rustic table, enjoyed with vehement appetite, spiced by jokes that
the pious John led and attracted because Ana hear from his seat in
the car, brought for this purpose near the table.

There, in the cups of gourd vines perched on tripods just cut in the vicinity, boiled milk,
judging by the fragrant, frothy, fresh from the cow Durham who poked his head by one of the peaceful
light of the vine. Because it was the place a nice hostel, roofed and trellised vegetables, put
there by the owners of the farm to that visitors might do with really, to reach the city, lunch
on the way farmers. There cheese, milk gushing when cut, and he knew richly with the corn cakes
steaming serving of blue skirt the Indian woman, wrapped in white cloths. There, some boiled eggs,
or egg, which came lying, each in his gourd cup, on a pleasant herbs fragrance that smelled
like flowers. There, in the same coconut shell just split in two, fruit milk with a teaspoon of coconut
carved that flowed from their natural cups. And while it lasted lunch, some Indians, barefoot and
in their suits of canvas, placed on earth their straw hats, playing under another paradorcillo
farther, ready for them, some air very soft string music, which gently warmed by the morning air and
the vine thick, our happy hikers came like a caress. Adela just laughed forcedly. Sun violence
had to be done for no slap in the carriage. Very awkwardly frowned Lucia went after John in the
side door of Anne, and spoke to her, making laugh, a few minutes, and laugh when he heard Sol,
Lucia left her seat, and she was also to the door. Aha! Aha! touch and target, which is a touch
of welcome and farewell, Indians skilled. The Indian girl in blue skirt gives the cow Mirona
like a coconut cups abandoned. On the box are Pedro and Adela: Lucia, less happy, the imperial Juan. And
house the farm, all white, red roof, is within walking distance. Ana and is very pale, and
mules, the smell of the stable, flying way up under the thick canopy of almond Avenue filled
with round leaves and green fruits.

       * * * * *

Very, very happy. Lucia also was happy, but John was not there. Because it was not Juan: the clash
of the Indians, but those were days of break in courts and in schools, forced him to return
to the village, if not gamonal wanted a place that had great friends in government, theft with one
reason or another to the Indian energy land John had been the end point unless they were recognized
in the lawsuit. Indians had left the church with their music, the Sunday before, barely knew that
John would not expect train the next day they brought him to John the mule, he saw that had
adorned all with stars and flowers, palm and all the people coming after him, and many wanted
to accompany him to the city. A little old lady, who had been leaning on his stick, brought him
a scapular of the Virgin, and a beautiful girl, with a son in the back and another in her arms,
came with his husband, who was a fine young man, the head of the mule, the Indian boy put it
up for you give her hand to "good knight", and many came with jars of honey covered with matting
well bound, or other offerings, as if they could take to both legs of the horse, too plump all
that party, and another old man, the father of all, my master, Don Mariano, had never drunk
any liquor, even though he worked the plantations of their own, arrived supported by his two sons,
who were also elders of the people, and with arms raised since he could see John, and as if he
had seen the light after it had expected vain all his life: "Cuddling - he said -. Let me hug!
Lord, absolutely everything that people love him and your child! ". So John, who had moved those
affections, left the farm, two days after he arrived there, when he found that Indians, despite
their efforts, were in danger of being removed from the temporary holding hands, waiting for the
Ultimately, there was John obtained that the judge agreed - the judge who had received the day
gamonal previous gift a very fine horse.

       * * * * *

Very, very happy. Lucy herself, who in two days he spent there gave him an opportunity Juan of surprise
with a sudden change of disposition that he could not understand,
being older and less rational than he already knew, was now like someone
returning from an illness.

It was the house all the visitors, not to be in it then their owners, who were like Family of John
Peter, in the evening, went hunting, because it was the time of rabbits, very abundant there.
Of those who brought dead in the bag never spoke, because Ana had not forgive, and still be in
this world that are simple souls pleasure to kill, at the very entrance of the cave where he has
his mate and their offspring the poor animals that have come to discover,
to move house, somewhere in the forest rich in herbs.

But rabbits, dead clever, often fall into the hands of the hunter, because they feel good noise,
make the dead, lest they betray the noise of the leak and closed eyes, as if to shut the hunter
that his men, who plays for his part as he does not see, and thrown away the gun, not to alarm
the rabbit is generally known, is gone, looking away, on the bed of the rabbit, until a good
jump puts his foot on and take it live: once took three very humble one, a color of smoke, which
was to Ana: one was white, which found way to tie a blue ribbon at the neck, gave him to G,
and Lucy brought another, which seemed a captive king, a hard brown, and about fierce eyes that
never closed, while two days, that would not eat, down the first time she had erect ears, bit
the chain that held it, and her teeth was dead.

       

* * * * *

Trips, were few. Without Anna, who had to make them? With it you could not. Neither left Sol Anne
of good will, and Lucia had come to enjoy some when John was not with her. Adela, yes, was stuck
with a thick Indian friendships that he had certain privileges in the farm house and lived in
a nearby, where he spent most of the day Adela, talking the customs of those people with the determined
Petrona Revolorio "and does not create Miss service that will convert, but because I have become
fans. " Women was very robust and good ride, but this did by feet so small that there was no
way that Petrona come to see 'their children' without being asked to teach them, which she did
as he not want to do, especially when the child was before Peter. The hands went hand with their
feet, so that sometimes girls are asked for and cherished, had a simple Listing skirt and a transparent
chiffon gown, which encircled the shoulders and left him beautiful bare arms and high throat.
It was funny face and tiny factions, so that the mouth half open in the center and collected
in two dimples on the sides, was not any bigger than his eyes. The little nose, short and rather
round and round in the end, it was a mischief. His forehead was narrow, and her back, in two bands
not very smooth, black hair in two heavy braids, streaked with red tape, had collected in bangs,
like a crown on top of the head. A shawl was listing always up and down over one shoulder,
and there was none, when he finished off a sentence seemed intentional, was cast forth from
behind the shawl more boldly listing. After casting running, laughing and talking in a jargon that
would be highly educated and citizen, and would be prepared the girl Ana, which was very good,
a sweet coconut tamales and chocolatillo clear it was more like what took so clean and new, our
pretty sick. And while Ana's like, Petrona Revolorio, crossed her shawl, sat at his feet 'not-for-service
but because he had gained fans "and made her stories.

Is the dawn, without Revolorio Petrona was at the door of the nursery with Ana basket of flowers,
which she wanted to put in the glass and see with their own eyes, how was the child? "My little
girl, look at it that gallant is today!, I'm going to tell the child Pedro give us a treat
to dance the ladies, and we will remove the child to dance with Peter. He really is handsome too,
the boy Peter! Look, my little girl: do not bring those jazminotes white, because the strong smell
from here, but here I put in the blue cup, these jasmines San Juan, which here are given all year
long and smell very well at night. With that, my girl, be prepared for dance, and I will provide
a red silk scarf that I have, that is me to place more beautiful than the same girl Sun How
is that Peter died on the girl child Sun! But I do not know what is the girl Adela, who is as dull.
You want my little girl tamales Today coconut or fresh carnecita? Yesterday I killed a cochito,
who is as soft: it was the cochito pink, and flesh is as merengue! Jesus, my little girl, do
not tell me that! If I wait to serve it: Look I'm like the cups of coconut, which say very beautiful
lyrics: 'I serve my mistress. " I'll put the door of my house filled with pots of flowers, and rent
musicians, the day my little girl will see me. And why I do not anyone: for I do not service,
but because I have gained many fans! ".

       

* * * * *

And Peter, like that in the absence of John came to be the gentleman servant of the four girls,
What could he do but be linking serving, and much better when Adela was not around, and Best, though
it was next to Anne, that it did not look kindly at a time when Sol and Peter, and better than
ever when, for some perhaps Lucia and Sol were alone? And then always Lucia had something to
do, go on tiptoe to see if Ana was still sleeping, watching whether they had water the blue birds,
ask if they brought fresh milk to be taken Ana waking: Lucy always
had, when Peter and Sun could be alone, something to do.

It was the place of conversation a lean spacious, polished the floor board, the rail - as whole
house, wood - open on three sides for the three stairs leading to the garden that was in front
of the house. There was the lean-always in shadow, because he wore a copious green vine, glazed
at intervals for some classes of flowers red. Hanging from the ceiling fresco painted a whimsical
leaf and flower garlands such as the vine, some wire baskets covered in red wax, which made
them look coral, all filled with natural flowers, bright and small, and often adorned with
stray strands of old trees growing on the farm, and was, its green-white and grow in threads,
like the gray of that grove. In the sections wall, including interior windows, enhanced by
a live red lines had few large studies of flowers in wood, painted with natural colors by artists
the country with huge property, two of the pictures were of magnolia, one almost open and a certain
beauty of Empress, the other still locked in his own branch, and two tables were pompous of hibiscus
flowers, with bright red leaves, grouped way that will enhance your natural size and beauty.
 And thus use your frog, that
he may continue long alive:

Put your hook into his mouth, which you may easily do from the middle of April till August;
and then the frog's mouth grows up, and he continues so for at least six months without eating,
but is sustained, none but He whose name is Wonderful knows how: I say, put your hook, I mean
the arming-wire, through his mouth, and out at his gills; and then with a fine needle and silk
sew the upper part of his leg, with only one stitch, to the arming-wire of your hook; or tie
the frog's leg, above the upper joint, to the armed-wire; and, in so doing, use him as though
you loved him, that is, harm him as little as you may possibly, that he may live the longer.

And now, having given you this direction for the baiting your ledger- hook with a live fish
or frog, my next must be to tell you, how your hook thus baited must or may be used; and it
is thus: having fastened your hook to a line, which if it be not fourteen yards long should
not be less than twelve, you are to fasten that line to any bough near to a hole where a Pike
is, or is likely to lie, or to have a haunt; and then wind your line on any forked stick, all
your line, except half a yard of it or rather more; and split that forked stick, with such
a nick or notch at one end of it as may keep the line from any more of it ravelling from about
the stick than so much of it as you intend. And choose your forked stick to be of that bigness
as may keep the fish or frog from pulling the forked stick under the water till the Pike bites;
and then the Pike having pulled the line forth of the cleft or nick of that stick in which
it was gently fastened, he will have line enough to go to his hold and pouch the bait And if
you would have this ledger-bait to keep at a fixt place undisturbed by wind or other accidents
which may drive it to the shore- side, for you are to note, that it is likeliest to catch a
Pike in the midst of the water, then hang a small plummet of lead, a stone, or piece of tile,
or a turf, in a string, and cast it into the water with the forked stick to hang upon the ground,
to be a kind of anchor to keep the forked stick from moving out of your intended place till
the Pike come: this I take to be a very good way to use so many ledger-baits as you intend
to make trial of.

Or if you bait your hooks thus with live fish or frogs, and in a windy day, fasten them thus
to a bough or bundle of straw, and by the help of that wind can get them to move across a pond
or mere, you are like to stand still on the shore and see sport presently, if there be any
store of Pikes. Or these live baits may make sport, being tied about the body or wings of a
goose or duck, and she chased over a pond. And the like may be done with turning three or four
live baits, thus fastened to bladders, or boughs, or bottles of hay or flags, to swim down
a river, whilst you walk quietly a]one on the shore, and are still in expectaion of sport.
The rest must be taught you by practice; for time will not allow me to say more of this kind
of fishing with live baits.

And for your DEAD-BAIT for a Pike: for that you may be taught by one day's going a-fishing
with me, or any other body that fishes for him; for the baiting your hook with a dead gudgeon
or a roach, and moving it up and down the water, is too easy a thing to take up any time to
direct you to do it. And yet, because I cut you short in that, I will commute for it by telling
you that that was told me for a secret: it is this: Dissolve gum of ivy in oil of spike, and
therewith anoint your dead bait for a Pike; and then cast it into a likely place; and when
it has lain a short time at the bottom, draw it towards the top of the water, and so up the
stream; and it is more than likely that you have a Pike follow with more than common eagerness.
And some affirm, that any bait anointed with the marrow of the thigh-bone of a heron is a great
temptation to any fish.

These have not been tried by me, but told me by a friend of note, that pretended to do me a
courtesy. But if this direction to catch a Pike thus do you no good, yet I am certain this
direction how to roast him when he is caught is choicely good; for I have tried it, and it
is somewhat the better for not being common. But with my direction you must take this caution,
that your Pike must not be a small one, that is, it must be more than half a yard, and should
be bigger.

"First, open your Pike at the gills, and if need be, cut also a little slit towards the belly.
Out of these, take his guts; and keep his liver, which you are to shred very small, with thyme,
sweet marjoram, and a little winter-savoury; to these put some pickled oysters, and some anchovies,
two or three; both these last whole, for the anchovies will melt, and the oysters should not;
to these, you must add also a pound of sweet butter, which you are to mix with the herbs that
are shred, and let them all be well salted. If the Pike be more than a yard long, then you
may put into these herbs more than a pound, or if he be less, then less butter will suffice:
These, being thus mixt, with a blade or two of mace, must be put into the Pike's belly; and
then his belly so sewed up as to keep all the butter in his belly if it be possible; if not,
then as much of it as you possibly can. But take not off the scales. Then you are to thrust
the spit through his mouth, out at his tail. And then take four or five or six split sticks,
or very thin laths, and a convenient quantity of tape or filleting; these laths are to be tied
round about the Pike's body, from his head to his tail, and the tape tied somewhat thick, to
prevent his breaking or falling off from the spit. Let him be roasted very leisurely; and often
basted with claret wine, and anchovies, and butter, mixt together; and also with what moisture
falls from him into the pan. When you have roasted him sufficiently, you are to hold under
him, when you unwind or cut the tape that ties him, such a dish as you purpose to eat him out
of; and let him fall into it with the sauce that is roasted in his belly; and by this means
the Pike will be kept unbroken and complete. Then, to the sauce which was within, and also
that sauce in the pan, you are to add a fit quantity of the best butter, and to squeeze the
juice of three or four oranges. Lastly, you may either put it into the Pike, with the oysters,
two cloves of garlick, and take it whole out, when the Pike is cut off the spit; or, to give
the sauce a haut goût, let the dish into which you let the Pike fall be rubbed with it: The
using or not using of this garlick is left to your discretion.                 M. B."

This dish of meat is too good for any but anglers, or very honest men; and I trust you will
prove both, and therefore I have trusted you with this secret.

Let me next tell you, that Gesner tells us, there are no Pikes in Spain, and that the largest
are in the lake Thrasymene in Italy; and the next, if not equal to them, are the Pikes of England;
and that in England, Lincolnshire boasteth to have the biggest. Just so doth Sussex boast of
four sorts of fish, namely, an Arundel Mullet, a Chichester Lobster, a Shelsey Cockle, and
an Amerly Trout.

But I will take up no more of your time with this relation, but proceed to give you some Observations
of the Carp, and how to angle for him; and to dress him but not till he is caught.

The fourth day - continued

On the Carp

Chapter IX

Piscator

The Carp is the queen of rivers; a stately, a good, and a very subtil fish; that was not at
first bred, nor hath been long in England, but is now naturalised. It is said, they were brought
hither by one Mr. Mascal, a gentleman that then lived at Plumsted in Sussex, a county that
abounds more with this fish than any in this nation.

You may remember that I told you Gesner says there are no Pikes in Spain; and doubtless there
was a time, about a hundred or a few more years ago, when there were no Carps in England, as
may seem to be affirmed by Sir Richard Baker, in whose Chronicle you may find these verses:

Hops and turkies, carps and beer, Came into England all in a year.

And doubtless, as of sea-fish the Herring dies soonest out of the water, and of fresh-water
fish the Trout, so, except the Eel, the Carp endures most hardness, and lives longest out of
its own proper element; and, therefore, the report of the Carp's being brought out of a foreign
country into this nation is the more probable.

Carps and Loaches are observed to breed several months in one year, which Pikes and most other
fish do not; and this is partly proved by tame and wild rabbits; as also by some ducks, which
will lay eggs nine of the twelve months; and yet there be other ducks that lay not longer than
about one month. And it is the rather to be believed, because you shall scarce or never take
a male Carp without a melt, or a female without a roe or spawn, and for the most part very
much, and especially all the summer season; and it is observed, that they breed more naturally
in ponds than in running waters, if they breed there at all; and that those that live in rivers
are taken by men of the best palates to be much the better meat.

And it is observed that in some ponds Carps will not breed, especially in cold ponds; but where
they will breed, they breed innumerably: Aristotle and Pliny say six times in a year, if there
be no Pikes nor Perch to devour their spawn, when it is cast upon grass or flags, or weeds,
where it lies ten or twelve days before it be enlivened

The Carp, if he have water-room and good feed, will grow to a very great bigness and length;
I have heard, to be much above a yard long. It is said by Jovius, who hath writ of fishes,
that in the lake Lurian in Italy, Carps have thriven to be more than fifty pounds weight: which
is the more probable, for as the bear is conceived and born suddenly, and being born is but
short lived; so, on the contrary, the elephant is said to be two years in his dam's belly,
some think he is ten years in it, and being born, grows in bigness twenty years; and it is
observed too, that he lives to the age of a hundred years. And 'tis also observed, that the
crocodile is very long-lived; and more than that, that all that long life he thrives in bigness;
and so I think some Carps do, especially in some places, though I never saw one above twenty-three
inches, which was a great and goodly fish; but have been assured there are of a far greater
size, and in England too.

Now, as the increase of Carps is wonderful for their number, so there is not a reason found
out, I think, by any, why they should breed in some ponds, and not in others, of the same nature
for soil and all other circumstances. And as their breeding, so are their decays also very
mysterious: I have both read it, and been told by a gentleman of tried honesty, that he has
known sixty or more large Carps put into several ponds near to a house, where by reason of
the stakes in the ponds, and the owner's constant being near to them, it was impossible they
should be stole away from him; and that when he has, after three or four years, emptied the
pond, and expected an increase from them by breeding young ones, for that they might do so
he had, as the rule is, put in three melters for one spawner, he has, I say, after three or
four years, found neither a young nor old Carp remaining. And the like I have known of one
that had almost watched the pond, and, at a like distance of time, at the fishing of a pond,
found, of seventy or eighty large Carps, not above five or six: and that he had forborne longer
to fish the said pond, but that he saw, in a hot day in summer, a large Carp swim near the
top of the water with a frog upon his head; and that he, upon that occasion, caused his pond
to be let dry: and I say, of seventy or eighty Carps, only found five or six in the said pond,
and those very sick and lean, and with every one a frog sticking so fast on the head of the
said Carps, that the frog would not be got off without extreme force or killing. And the gentleman
that did affirm this to me, told me he saw it; and did declare his belief to be, and I also
believe the same, that he thought the other Carps, that were so strangely lost, were so killed
by the frogs, and then devoured.

And a person of honour, now living in Worcestershire, assured me he had seen a necklace, or
collar of tadpoles, hang like a chain or necklace of beads about a Pike's neck, and to kill
him: Whether it were for meat or malice, must be, to me, a question.

But I am fallen into this discourse by accident; of which I might say more, but it has proved
longer than I intended, and possibly may not to you be considerable: I shall therefore give
you three or four more short observations of the Carp, and then fall upon some directions how
you shall fish for him.

The age of Carps is by Sir Francis Bacon, in his History of  Life and Death, observed to be
but ten years; yet others think they live longer. Gesner says, a Carp has been known to live
in the Palatine above a hundred years But most conclude, that, contrary to the Pike or Luce,
all Carps are the better for age and bigness. The tongues of Carps are noted to be choice and
costly meat, especially to them that buy them: but Gesner says, Carps have no tongue like other
fish, but a piece of fleshlike fish in their mouth like to a tongue, and should be called a
palate: but it is certain it is choicely good, and that the Carp is to be reckoned amongst
those leather-mouthed fish which, I told you, have their teeth in their throat; and for that
reason he is very seldom lost by breaking his hold, if your hook be once stuck into his chaps.

I told you that Sir Francis Bacon thinks that the Carp lives but ten years: but Janus Dubravius
has writ a book Of fish and fish-ponds in which he says, that Carps begin to spawn at the age
of three years, and continue to do so till thirty: he says also, that in the time of their
breeding, which is in summer, when the sun hath warmed both the earth and water, and so apted
them also for generation, that then three or four male Carps will follow a female; and that
then, she putting on a seeming coyness, they force her through weeds and flags, where she lets
fall her eggs or spawn, which sticks fast to the weeds; and then they let fall their melt upon
it, and so it becomes in a short time to be a living fish: and, as I told you, it is thought
that the Carp does this several months in the year; and most believe, that most fish breed
after this manner, except the Eel. And it has been observed, that when the spawner has weakened
herself by doing that natural office, that two or three melters have helped her from off the
weeds, by bearing her up on both sides, and guarding her into the deep. And you may note, that
though this may seem a curiosity not worth observing, yet others have judged it worth their
time and costs to make glass hives, and order them in such a manner as to see how bees have
bred and made their honeycombs, and how they have obeyed their king, and governed their commonwealth.
But it is thought that all Carps are not bred by generation; but that some breed other ways,
as some Pikes do.

The physicians make the galls and stones in the heads of Carps to be very medicinable. But
it is not to be doubted but that in Italy they make great profit of the spawn of Carps, by
selling it to the Jews, who make it into red caviare; the Jews not being by their law admitted
to eat of caviare made of the Sturgeon, that being a fish that wants scales, and, as may appear
in Leviticus xi., by them reputed to be unclean.

Much more might be said out of him, and out of Aristotle, which Dubravius often quotes in his
Discourse of Fishes: but it might rather perplex than satisfy you; and therefore I shall rather
choose to direct you how to catch, than spend more time in discoursing either of the nature
or the breeding of this Carp, or of any more circumstances concerning him. But yet I shall
remember you of what I told you before, that he is a very subtil fish, and hard to be caught

And my first direction is, that if you will fish for a Carp, you must put on a very large measure
of patience, especially to fish for a river Carp: I have known a very good fisher angle diligently
four or six hours in a day, for three or four days together, for a river Carp, and not have
a bite. And you are to note, that, in some ponds, it is as hard to catch a Carp as in a river;
that is to say, where they have store of feed, and the water is of a clayish colour. But you
are to remember that I have told you there is no rule without an exception; and therefore being
possess with that hope and patience which I wish to all fishers, especially to the Carp-angler,
I shall tell you with what bait to fish for him. But first you are to know, that it must be
either early, or late; and let me tell you, that in hot weather, for he will seldom bite in
cold, you cannot be too early, or too late at it. And some have been so curious as to say,
the tenth of April is a fatal day for Carps.

The Carp bites either at worms, or at paste: and of worms I think the bluish marsh or meadow
worm is best; but possibly another worm, not too big, may do as well, and so may a green gentle:
and as for pastes, there are almost as many sorts as there are medicines for the toothache;
but doubtless sweet pastes are best; I mean, pastes made with honey or with sugar: which, that
you may the better beguile this crafty fish, should be thrown into the pond or place in which
you fish for him, some hours, or longer, before you undertake your trial of skill with the
angle-rod; and doubtless, if it be thrown into the water a day or two before, at several times,
and in small pellets, you are the likelier, when you fish for the Carp, to obtain your desired
sport. Or, in a large pond, to draw them to any certain place, that they may the better and
with more hope be fished for, you are to throw into it, in some certain place, either grains,
or blood mixt with cow-dung or with bran; or any garbage, as chicken's guts or the like; and
then, some of your small sweet pellets with which you propose to angle: and these small pellets
being a few of them also thrown in as you are angling, will be the better.

And your paste must be thus made: take the flesh of a rabbit, or cat, cut small; and bean-flour;
and if that may not be easily got, get other flour; and then, mix these together, and put to
them either sugar, or honey, which I think better: and then beat these together in a mortar,
or sometimes work them in your hands, your hands being very clean; and then make it into a
ball, or two, or three, as you like best, for your use: but you must work or pound it so long
in the mortar, as to make it so tough as to hang upon your hook without washing from it, yet
not too hard: or, that you may the better keep it on your hook, you may knead with your paste
a little, and not too much, white or yellowish wool.

And if you would have this paste keep all the year, for any other fish, then mix with it virgin-wax
and clarified honey, and work them together with your hands, before the fire; then make these
into balls, and they will keep all the year.

And if you fish for a Carp with gentles, then put upon your hook a small piece of scarlet about
this bigness, it being soaked in or anointed with oil of petre, called by some, oil of the
rock: and if your gentles be put, two or three days before, into a box or horn anointed with
honey, and so put upon your hook as to preserve them to be living, you are as like to kill
this crafty fish this way as any other: but still, as you are fishing, chew a little white
or brown bread in your mouth, and cast it into the pond about the place where your float swims.
Other baits there be; but these, with diligence and patient watchfulness, will do better than
any that I have ever practiced or heard of. And yet I shall tell you, that the crumbs of white
bread and honey made into a paste is a good bait for a Carp; and you know, it is more easily
made. And having said thus much of the Carp, my next discourse shall be of the Bream, which
shall not prove so tedious; and therefore I desire the continuance of your attention.

But, first, I will tell you how to make this Carp, that is so curious to be caught, so curious
a dish of meat as shall make him worth all your labour and patience. And though it is not without
some trouble and charges, yet it will recompense both.

Take a Carp, alive if possible; scour him, and rub him clean with water and salt, but scale
him not: then open him; and put him, with his blood and his liver, which you must save when
you open him, into a small pot or kettle: then take sweet marjoram, thyme, and parsley, of
each half a handful; a sprig of rosemary, and another of savoury; bind them into two or three
small bundles, and put them in your Carp, with four or five whole onions, twenty pickled oysters,
and three anchovies. Then pour upon your Carp as much claret wine as will only cover him; and
season your claret well with salt, cloves, and mace, and the rinds of oranges and lemons. That
done, cover your pot and set it on a quick fire till it be sufficiently boiled. Then take out
the Carp; and lay it, with the broth, into the dish; and pour upon it a quarter of a pound
of the best fresh butter, melted, and beaten with half a dozen spoonfuls of the broth, the
yolks of two or three eggs, and some of the herbs shred: garnish your dish with lemons, and
so serve it up. And much good do you! Dr. T.

The fourth day-continued

On the Bream

Chapter X

Piscator

The Bream, being at a full growth, is a large and stately fish. He will breed both in rivers
and ponds: but loves best to live in ponds, and where, if he likes the water and air, he will
grow not only to be very large, but as fat as a hog. He is by Gesner taken to be more pleasant,
or sweet, than wholesome. This fish is long in growing; but breeds exceedingly in a water that
pleases him; yea, in many ponds so fast, as to overstore them, and starve the other fish.

He is very broad, with a forked tail, and his scales set in excellent order; he hath large
eyes, and a narrow sucking mouth; he hath two sets of teeth, and a lozenge-like bone, a bone
to help his grinding. The melter is observed to have two large melts; and the female, two large
bags of eggs or spawn.

Gesner reports, that in Poland a certain and a great number of large breams were put into a
pond, which in the next following winter were frozen up into one entire ice, and not one drop
of water remaining, nor one of these fish to be found, though they were diligently searched
for; and yet the next spring, when the ice was thawed, and the weather warm, and fresh water
got into the pond, he affirms they all appeared again. This Gesner affirms; and I quote my
author, because it seems almost as incredible as the resurrection to an atheist: but it may
win something, in point of believing it, to him that considers the breeding or renovation of
the silk-worm, and of many insects. And that is considerable, which Sir Francis Bacon observes
in his History of Life and Death, fol. 20, that there be some herbs that die and spring every
year, and some endure longer.

But though some do not, yet the French esteem this fish highly; and to that end have this proverb
" He that hath Breams in his pond, is able to bid his friend welcome "; and it is noted, that
the best part of a Bream is his belly and head.

Some say, that Breams and Roaches will mix their eggs and melt together; and so there is in
many places a bastard breed of Breams, that never come to be either large or good, but very
numerous.

The baits good to catch this Bream are many. First, paste made of brown bread and honey; gentles;
or the brood of wasps that be young, and then not unlike gentles, and should be hardened in
an oven, or dried on a tile before the fire to make them tough. Or, there is, at the root of
docks or flags or rushes, in watery places, a worm not unlike a maggot, at which Tench will
bite freely. Or he will bite at a grasshopper with his legs nipt off, in June and July; or
at several flies, under water, which may be found on flags that grow near to the water-side.
I doubt not but that there be many other baits that are good; but I will turn them all into
this most excellent one, either for a Carp or Bream, in any river or mere: it was given to
me by a most honest and excellent angler; and hoping you will prove both, I will impart it to you.

1. Let your bait be as big a red worm as you can find, without a knot: get a pint or quart
of them in an evening, in garden-walks, or chalky commons, after a shower of rain; and put
them with clean moss well washed and picked, and the water squeezed out of the moss as dry
as you can, into an earthen pot or pipkin set dry; and change the moss fresh every three or
four days, for three weeks or a month together; then your bait will be at the best, for it
will be clear and lively.

2, Having thus prepared your baits, get your tackling ready and fitted for this sport. Take
three long angling-rods; and as many and more silk, or silk and hair, lines; and as many large
swan or goose-quill floats. Then take a piece of lead, and fasten them to the low ends of your
lines: then fasten your link-hook also to the lead; and let there be about a foot or ten inches
between the lead and the hook: but be sure the lead be heavy enough to sink the float or quill,
a little under the water; and not the quill to bear up the lead, for the lead must lie on the
ground. Note, that your link next the hook may be smaller than the rest of your line, if you
dare adventure, for fear of taking the Pike or Perch, who will assuredly visit your hooks,
till they be taken out, as I will show you afterwards, before either Carp or Bream will come
near to bite. Note also, that when the worm is well baited, it will crawl up and down as far
as the lead will give leave, which much enticeth the fish to bite without suspicion.

3. Having thus prepared your baits, and fitted your tackling, repair to the river, where you
have seen them swim in skulls or shoals. in the summer-time, in a hot afternoon, about three
or four of the clock; and watch their going forth of their deep holes, and returning, which
you may well discern, for they return about four of the clock, most of them seeking food at
the bottom, yet one or two will lie on the top of the water, rolling and tumbling themselves,
whilst the rest are under him at the bottom; and so you shall perceive him to keep sentinel:
then mark where he plays most and stays longest, which commonly is in the broadest and deepest
place of the river; and there, or near thereabouts, at a clear bottom and a convenient landing-place,
take one of your angles ready fitted as aforesaid, and sound the bottom, which should be about
eight or ten feet deep; two yards from the bank is best. Then consider with yourself, whether
that water will rise or fall by the next morning, by reason of any water-mills near; and, according
to your discretion, take the depth of the place, where you mean after to cast your ground-bait,
and to fish, to half an inch; that the lead lying on or near the ground-bait, the top of the
float may only appear upright half an inch above the water.

Thus you having found and fitted for the place and depth thereof, then go home and prepare
your ground-bait, which is, next to the fruit of your labours, to be regarded.

The GROUND-BAIT.

You shall take a peck, or a peck and a half, according to the greatness of the stream and deepness
of the water, where you mean to angle, of sweet gross-ground barley-malt; and boil it in a
kettle, one or two warms is enough: then strain it through a bag into a tub, the liquor whereof
hath often done my horse much good; and when the bag and malt is near cold, take it down to
the water-side, about eight or nine of the clock in the evening, and not before: cast in two
parts of your ground-bait, squeezed hard between both your hands; it will sink presently to
the bottom; and be sure it may rest in the very place where you mean to angle: if the stream
run hard, or move a little, cast your malt in handfuls a little the higher, upwards the stream.
You may, between your hands, close the malt so fast in handfuls, that the water will hardly
part it with the fall.

Your ground thus baited, and tackling fitted, leave your bag, with the rest of your tackling
and ground-bait, near the sporting-place all night; and in the morning, about three or four
of the clock, visit the water- side, but not too near, for they have a cunning watchman, and
are watchful themselves too.

Then, gently take one of your three rods, and bait your hook; casting it over your ground-bait,
and gently and secretly draw it to you till the lead rests about the middle of the ground-bait.

Then take a second rod, and cast in about a yard above, and your third a yard below the first
rod; and stay the rods in the ground: but go yourself so far from the water-side, that you
perceive nothing but the top of the floats, which you must watch most diligently. Then when
you have a bite, you shall perceive the top of your float to sink suddenly into the water:
yet, nevertheless, be not too hasty to run to your rods, until you see that the line goes clear
away; then creep to the water-side, and give as much line as possibly you can: if it be a good
Carp or Bream, they will go to the farther side of the river: then strike gently, and hold
your rod at a bent, a little while; but if you both pull together, you are sure to lose your
game, for either your line, or hook, or hold, will break: and after you have overcome them,
they will make noble sport, and are very shy to be landed. The Carp is far stronger and more
mettlesome than the Bream.

Much more is to be observed in this kind of fish and fishing, but it is far fitter for experience
and discourse than paper. Only, thus much is necessary for you to know, and to be mindful and
careful of, that if the Pike or Perch do breed in that river, they will be sure to bite first,
and must first be taken. And for the most part they are very large; and will repair to your
ground-bait, not that they will eat of it, but will feed and sport themselves among the young
fry that gather about and hover over the bait.

The way to discern the Pike and to take him, it you mistrust your Bream hook, for I have taken
a Pike a yard long several times at my Bream hooks, and sometimes he hath had the luck to share
my line, may be thus:

Take a small Bleak, or Roach, or Gudgeon, and bait it; and set it, alive, among your rods,
two feet deep from the cork, with a little red worm on the point of the hook: then take a few
crumbs of white bread, or some of the ground-bait, and sprinkle it gently amongst your rods.
If Mr. Pike be there, then the little fish will skip out of the water at his appearance, but
the live-set bait is sure to be taken.

Thus continue your sport from four in the morning till eight, and if it be a gloomy windy day,
they will bite all day long: but this is too long to stand to your rods, at one place; and
it will spoil your evening sport that day, which is this.

About four of the clock in the afternoon repair to your baited place; and as soon as you come
to the water-side, cast in one-half of the rest of your ground-bait, and stand off; then whilst
the fish are gathering together, for there they will most certainly come for their supper,
you may take a pipe of tobacco: and then, in with your three rods, as in the morning. You will
find excellent sport that evening, till eight of the clock: then cast in the residue of your
ground-bait, and next morning, by four of the clock, visit them again for four hours, which
is the best sport of all; and after that, let them rest till you and your friends have a mind
to more sport.

From St. James's-tide until Bartholomew-tide is the best; when they have had all the summer's
food, they are the fattest.

Observe, lastly, that after three or four days' fishing together, your game will be very shy
and wary, and you shall hardly get above a bite or two at a baiting: then your only way is
to desist from your sport, about two or three days: and in the meantime, on the place you late
baited, and again intend to bait, you shall take a turf of green but short grass, as big or
bigger than a round trencher; to the top of this turf, on the green side, you shall, with a
needle and green thread, fasten one by one, as many little red worms as will near cover all
the turf: then take a round board or trencher, make a hole in the middle thereof, and through
the turf placed on the board or trencher, with a string or cord as long as is fitting, tied
to a pole, let it down to the bottom of the water, for the fish to feed upon without disturbance
about two or three days; and after that you have drawn it away, you may fall to, and enjoy
your former recreation.

B. A.

The fourth day-continued

On the Tench

Chapter XI

Piscator

The Tench, the physician of fishes, is observed to love ponds better than rivers, and to love
pits better than either: yet Camden observes, there is a river in Dorsetshire that abounds
with Tenches, but doubtless they retire to the most deep and quiet places in it.

This fish hath very large fins, very small and smooth scales, a red circle about his eyes,
which are big and of a gold colour, and from either angle of his mouth there hangs down a little
barb. In every Tench's head there are two little stones which foreign physicians make great
use of, but he is not commended for wholesome meat, though there be very much use made of them
for outward applications. Rondeletius says, that at his being at Rome, he saw a great cure
done by applying a Tench to the feet of a very sick man. This, he says, was done after an unusual
manner, by certain Jews. And it is observed that many of those people have many secrets yet
unknown to Christians; secrets that have never yet been written, hut have been since the days
of their Solomon, who knew the nature of all things, even from the cedar to the shrub, delivered
by tradition, from the father to the son, and so from generation to generation, without writing;
or, unless it were casually, without the least communicating them to any other nation or tribe;
for to do that they account a profanation. And, yet, it is thought that they, or some spirit
worse than they, first told us, that lice, swallowed alive, were a certain cure for the yellow-jaundice.
This, and many other medicines, were discovered by them, or by revelation; for, doubtless,
we attained them not by study

Well, this fish, besides his eating, is very useful, both dead and alive, for the good of mankind.
But I will meddle no more with that, my honest, humble art teaches no such boldness: there
are too many foolish meddlers in physick and divinity that think themselves fit to meddle with
hidden secrets, and so bring destruction to their followers. But I'll not meddle with them,
any farther than to wish them wiser; and shall tell you next, for I hope I may be so bold,
that the Tench is the physician of fishes, for the Pike especially, and that the Pike, being
either sick or hurt, is cured by the touch of the Tench. And it is observed that the tyrant
Pike will not be a wolf to his physician, but forbears to devour him though he be never so hungry.

This fish, that carries a natural balsam in him to cure both himself and others, loves yet
to feed in very foul water, and amongst weeds. And yet, I am sure, he eats pleasantly, and,
doubtless, you will think so too, if you taste him. And I shall therefore proceed to give you
some few, and but a few, directions how to catch this Tench, of which I have given you these
observations.

He will bite at a paste made of brown bread and honey, or at a Marsh- worm, or a lob-worm;
he inclines very much to any paste with which tar is mixt, and he will bite also at a smaller
worm with his head nipped off, and a cod-worm put on the hook before that worm. And I doubt
not but that he will also, in the three hot months, for in the nine colder he stirs not much,
bite at a flag-worm or at a green gentle; but can positively say no more of the Tench, he being
a fish I have not often angled for; but I wish my honest scholar may, and be ever fortunate
when he fishes.

The fourth day-continued

On the Perch

Chapter XII

Piscator and Venator

Piscator. The Perch is a very good and very bold biting fish. He is one of the fishes of prey
that, like the Pike and Trout, carries his teeth in his mouth, which is very large: and he
dare venture to kill and devour several other kinds of fish. He has a hooked or hog back, which
is armed with sharp and stiff bristles, and all his skin armed, or covered over with thick
dry hard scales, and hash, which few other fish have, two fins on his back. He is so bold that
he will invade one of his own kind, which the Pike will not do so willingly; and you may, therefore,
easily believe him to be a bold biter.

The Perch is of great esteem in Italy, saith Aldrovandus: and especially the least are there
esteemed a dainty dish. And Gesner prefers the Perch and Pike above the Trout, or any fresh-water
fish: he says the Germans have this proverb, " More wholesome than a Perch of Rhine ": and
he says the River-Perch is so wholesome, that physicians allow him to be eaten by wounded men,
or by men in fevers, or by women in child-bed.

He spawns but once a year; and is, by physicians, held very nutritive; yet, by many, to be
hard of digestion. They abound more in the river Po, and in England, says Rondeletius, than
other parts: and have in their brain a stone, which is, in foreign parts, sold by apothecaries,
being there noted to be very medicinable against the stone in the reins. These be a part of
the commendations which some philosophical brains have bestowed upon the freshwater Perch:
yet they commend the Sea-Perch which is known by having but one fin on his back, of which they
say we English see but a few, to be a much better fish.

The Perch grows slowly, yet will grow, as I have been credibly informed, to be almost two feet
long; for an honest informer told me, such a one was not long since taken by Sir Abraham Williams,
a gentleman of worth, and a brother of the angle, that yet lives, and I wish he may: this was
a deep-bodied fish, and doubtless durst have devoured a Pike of half his own length. For I
have told you, he is a bold fish; such a one as but for extreme hunger the Pike will not devour.
For to affright the Pike, and save himself, the Perch will set up his fins, much like as a
turkey-cock will sometimes set up his tail.

But, my scholar, the Perch is not only valiant to defend himself, but he is, as I said, a bold-biting
fish: yet he will not bite at all seasons of the year; he is very abstemious in winter, yet
will bite then in the midst of the day, if it be warm: and note, that all fish bite best about
the midst of warm day in winter. And he hath been observed, by some, not usually to bite till
the mulberry-tree buds; that is to say, till extreme frosts be past the spring; for, when the
mulberry-tree blossoms, many gardeners observe their forward fruit to be past the danger of
frosts; and some have made the like observation of the Perch's biting.

But bite the Perch will, and that very boldly. And, as one has wittily observed, if there be
twenty or forty in a hole, they may be, at one standing, all catched one after another; they
being, as he says, like the wicked of the world, not afraid, though their fellows and companions
perish in their sight. And you may observe, that they are not like the solitary Pike, but love
to accompany one another, and march together in troops.

And the baits for this bold fish are not many: I mean, he will bite as well at some, or at
any of these three, as at any or all others whatsoever: a worm, a minnow, or a little frog,
of which you may find many in hay- time. And of worms; the dunghill worm called a brandling
I take to be best, being well scoured in moss or fennel; or he will bite at a worm that lies
under cow-dung, with a bluish head. And if you rove for a Perch with a minnow, then it is best
to be alive; you sticking your hook through his back fin; or a minnow with the hook in his
upper lip, and letting him swim up and down, about mid-water, or a little lower, and you still
keeping him to about that depth by a cork, which ought not to be a very little one: and the
like way you are to fish for the Perch with a small frog, your hook being fastened through
the skin of his leg, towards the upper part of it: and, lastly, I will give you but this advice,
that you give the Perch time enough when he bites; for there was scarce ever any angler that
has given him too much. And now I think best to rest myself; for I have almost spent my spirits
with talking so long.

Venator. Nay, good master, one fish more, for you see it rains still: and you know our angles
are like money put to usury; they may thrive, though we sit still, and do nothing but talk
and enjoy one another. Come, come, the other fish, good master.

Piscator. But, scholar, have you nothing to mix with this discourse, which now grows both tedious
and tiresome ? Shall I have nothing from you, that seem to have both a good memory and a cheerful
spirit?

Venator. Yes, master, I will speak you a copy of verses that were made by Doctor Donne, and
made to shew the world that he could make soft and smooth verses, when he thought smoothness
worth his labour: and I love them the better, because they allude to Rivers, and Fish and Fishing.
They be these:

Come, live with me, and be my love, And we will some new pleasures prove, Of golden sands,
and crystal brooks, With silken lines, and silver hooks.

There will the river whisp'ring run, Warm'd by thy eyes more than the sun And there the enamel'd
fish will stay Begging themselves they may betray.

When thou wilt swim in that live bath, Each fish, which every channel hash, Most amorously
to thee will swim, Gladder to catch thee. than thou him.

If thou, to be so seen, beest loath By sun or moon, thou dark'nest both; And if mine eyes have
leave to see, I need not their light, having thee,

Let others freeze with angling reeds, And cut their legs with shells and weeds, Or treacherously
poor fish beset With strangling snares or windowy net;

Let coarse bold hands, from slimy nest, The bedded fish in banks outwrest; Let curious traitors
sleeve silk flies, To 'witch poor wand'ring fishes' eyes.

For thee, thou need'st no such deceit, For thou thyself art shine own bait; That fish that
is not catcht thereby, Is wiser afar, alas, than I.

Piscator. Well remembered, honest scholar. I thank you for these choice verses; which I have
heard formerly, but had quite forgot, till they were recovered by your happy memory. Well,
being I have now rested myself a little, I will make you some requital, by telling you some
observations of the Eel; for it rains still: and because, as you say, our angles are as money
put to use, that thrives when we play, therefore we'll sit still, and enjoy ourselves a little
longer under this honeysuckle hedge.

The fourth day-continued

Of the Eel, and other Fish that want Scales

Chapter XIII

Piscator

It is agreed by most men, that the Eel is a most dainty fish: the Romans have esteemed her
the Helena of their feasts; and some the queen of palate-pleasure. But most men differ about
their breeding: some say they breed by generation, as other fish do; and others, that they
breed, as some worms do, of mud; as rats and mice, and many other living creatures, are bred
in Egypt, by the sun's heat when it shines upon the overflowing of the river Nilus; or out
of the putrefaction of the earth, and divers other ways. Those that deny them to breed by generation,
as other fish do, ask, If any man ever saw an Eel to have a spawn or melt ? And they are answered,
That they may be as certain of their breeding as if they had seen spawn; for they say, that
they are certain that Eels have all parts fit for generation, like other fish, but so small
as not to be easily discerned, by reason of their fatness; but that discerned they may be;
and that the He and the She Eel may be distinguished by their fins. And Rondeletius says, he
has seen Eels cling together like dew-worms.

And others say, that Eels, growing old, breed other Eels out of the corruption of their own
age; which, Sir Francis Bacon says, exceeds not ten years. And others say, that as pearls are
made of glutinous dewdrops, which are condensed by the sun's heat in those countries, so Eels
are bred of a particular dew, falling in the months of May or June on the banks of some particular
ponds or rivers, apted by nature for that end; which in a few clays are, by the sun's heat,
turned into Eels: and some of the Ancients have called the Eels that are thus bred, the offspring
of Jove. I have seen, in the beginning of July, in a river not far from Canterbury, some parts
of it covered over with young Eels, about the thickness of a straw; and these Eels did lie
on the top of that water, as thick as motes are said to be in the sun: and I have heard the
like of other rivers, as namely, in Severn, where they are called Yelvers; and in a pond, or
mere near unto Staffordshire, where, about a set time in summer, such small Eels abound so
much, that many of the poorer sort of people that inhabit near to it, take such Eels out of
this mere with sieves or sheets; and make a kind of Eel-cake of them, and eat it like as bread.
And Gesner quotes Venerable Bede, to say, that in England there is an island called Ely, by
reason of the innumerable number of Eels that breed in it. But that Eels may be bred as some
worms, and some kind of bees and wasps are, either of dew, or out of the corruption of the
earth, seems to be made probable by the barnacles and young goslings bred by the sun's heat
and the rotten planks of an old ship, and hatched of trees; both which are related for truths
by Du Bartas and Lobel, and also by our learned Camden, and laborious Gerhard in his Herbal.

It is said by Rondeletius, that those Eels that are bred in rivers that relate to or be nearer
to the sea, never return to the fresh waters, as the Salmon does always desire to do, when
they have once tasted the salt water; and I do the more easily believe this, because I am certain
that powdered beef is a most excellent bait to catch an Eel. And though Sir Francis Bacon will
allow the Eel's life to be but ten years, yet he, in his History of Life and Death, mentions
a Lamprey, belonging to the Roman emperor, to be made tame, and so kept for almost threescorc
years; and that such useful and pleasant observations were made of this Lamprey, that Crassus
the orator, who kept her, lamented her death; and we read in Doctor Hakewill, that Hortensius
was seen to weep at the death of a Lamprey that he had kept long, and loved exceedingly.

It is granted by all, or most men, that Eels, for about six months, that is to say, the six
cold months of the year, stir not up or down, neither in the rivers, nor in the pools in which
they usually are, but get into the soft earth or mud; and there many of them together bed themselves,
and live without feeding upon anything, as I have told you some swallows have been observed
to do in hollow trees, for those six cold months. And this the Eel and Swallow do, as not being
able to endure winter weather: for Gesner quotes Albertus to say, that in the year 1125, that
year's winter being more cold than usually, Eels did, by nature's instinct, get out of the
water into a stack of hay in a meadow upon dry ground; and there bedded themselves: but yet,
at last, a frost killed them. And our Camden relates, that, in Lancashire, fishes were digged
out of the earth with spades, where no water was near to the place. I shall say little more
of the Eel, but that, as it is observed he is impatient of cold, so it hath been observed,
that, in warm weather, an Eel has been known to live five days out of the water.

And lastly, let me tell you, that some curious searchers into the natures of fish observe,
that there be several sorts or kinds of Eels; as the silver Eel, the green or greenish Eel,
with which the river of Thames abounds, and those are called Grigs; and a blackish Eel, whose
head is more flat and bigger than ordinary Eels; and also an Eel whose fins are reddish, and
but seldom taken in this nation, and yet taken sometimes. These several kind of Eels are, say
some, diversely bred; as, namely, out of the corruption of the earth; and some by dew, and
other ways, as I have said to you: and yet it is affirmed by some for a certain, that the silver
Eel is bred by generation, but not by spawning as other fish do; but that her brood come alive
from her, being then little live Eels no bigger nor longer than a pin; and I have had too many
testimonies of this, to doubt the truth of it myself; and if I thought it needful I might prove
it, but I think it is needless.

And this Eel, of which I have said so much to you, may be caught with divers kinds of baits:
as namely, with powdered beef; with a lob or garden worm; with a minnow; or gut of a hen, chicken,
or the guts of any fish, or with almost anything, for he is a greedy fish. But the Eel may
be caught, especially, with a little, a very little Lamprey, which some call a Pride, and may,
in the hot months, be found many of them in the river Thames, and in many mud-heaps in other
rivers; yea, almost as usually as one finds worms in a dunghill.

Next note, that the Eel seldom stirs in the day, but then hides himself; and therefore he is
usually caught by night, with one of these baits of which I have spoken; and may be then caught
by laying hooks, which you are to fasten to the bank, or twigs of a tree; or by throwing a
string across the stream, with many hooks at it, and those baited with the aforesaid baits;
and a clod, or plummet, or stone, thrown into the river with this line, that so you may in
the morning find it near to some fixed place; and then take it up with a drag-hook, or otherwise.
But these things are, indeed, too common to be spoken of; and an hour's fishing with any angler
will teach you better, both for these and many other common things in the practical part of
angling, than a week's discourse. I shall therefore conclude this direction for taking the
Eel, by telling you, that in a warm day in summer, I have taken many a good Eel by Snigling,
and have been much pleased with that sport.

And because you, that are but a young angler, know not what Snigling is I will now teach it
to you. You remember I told you that Eels do not usually stir in the daytime; for then they
hide themselves under some covert; or under boards or planks about flood-gates, or weirs, or
mills: or in holes on the river banks: so that you, observing your time in a warm day, when
the water is lowest, may take a strong small hook, tied to a strong line, or to a string about
a yard long; and then into one of these holes, or between any boards about a mill, or under
any great stone or plank, or any place where you think an Eel may hide or shelter herself,
you may, with the help of a short stick, put in y our bait, but leisurely, and as far as you
may conveniently; and it is scarce to be doubted, but if there be an Eel within the sight of
it, the Eel will bite instantly, and as certainly gorge it; and you need not doubt to have
him if you pull him not out of the hole too quickly, but pull him out by degrees; for he, lying
folded double in his hole, will, with the help of his tail, break all, unless you give him
time to be wearied with pulling, and so get him out by degrees, not pulling too hard.

And to commute for your patient hearing this long direction, I shall next tell you, How to
make this Eel a most excellent dish of meat.

First, wash him in water and salt; then pull off his skin below his vent or navel, and not
much further: having done that, take out his guts as clean as you can, but wash him not: then
give him three or four scotches with a knife; and then put into his belly and those scotches,
sweet herbs, an anchovy, and a little nutmeg grated or cut very small, and your herbs and anchovies
must also be cut very small; and mixt with good butter and salt: having done this, then pull
his skin over him, all but his head, which you are to cut off, to the end you may tie his skin
about that part where his head grew, and it must be so tied as to keep all his moisture within
his skin: and having done this, tie him with tape or packthread to a spit, and roast him leisurely;
and baste him with water and salt till his skin breaks, and then with butter; and having roasted
him enough, let what was put into his belly, and what he drips, be his sauce. S. F.

When I go to dress an Eel thus, I wish he were as long and as big as that which was caught
in Peterborough river, in the year 1667; which was a yard and three quarters long. If you will
not believe me, then go and see at one of the coffee-houses in King Street in Westminster.

But now let me tell you, that though the Eel, thus drest, be not only excellent good, but more
harmless than any other way, yet it is certain that physicians account the Eel dangerous meat;
I will advise you therefore, as Solomon says of honey, " Hast thou found it, eat no more than
is sufficient, lest thou surfeit, for it is not good to eat much honey ". And let me add this,
that the uncharitable Italian bids us " give Eels and no wine to our enemies ".

And I will beg a little more of your attention, to tell you, that Aldrovandus, and divers physicians,
commend the Eel very much for medicine, though not for meat. But let me tell you one observation,
that the Eel is never out of season; as Trouts, and most other fish, are at set times; at least,
most Eels are not.

I might here speak of many other fish, whose shape and nature are much like the Eel, and frequent
both the sea and fresh rivers; as, namely, the Lamprel, the Lamprey, and the Lamperne: as also
of the mighty Conger, taken often in Severn, about Gloucester: and might also tell in what
high esteem many of them are for the curiosity of their taste. But these are not so proper
to be talked of by me, because they make us anglers no sport; therefore I will let them alone,
as the Jews do, to whom they are forbidden by their law.

And, scholar, there is also a FLOUNDER, a sea-fish which will wander very far into fresh rivers,
and there lose himself and dwell: and thrive to a hand's breadth, and almost twice so long:
a fish without scales, and most excellent meat: and a fish that affords much sport to the angler,
with any small worm, but especially a little bluish worm, gotten out of marsh-ground, or meadows,
which should be well scoured. But this, though it be most excellent meat, yet it wants scales,
and is, as I told you, therefore an abomination to the Jews.

But, scholar, there is a fish that they in Lancashire boast very much of, called a CHAR; taken
there, and I think there only, in a mere called Winander Mere; a mere, says Camden, that is
the largest in this nation, being ten miles in length, and some say as smooth in the bottom
as if it were paved with polished marble. This fish never exceeds fifteen or sixteen inches
in length; and is spotted like a Trout: and has scarce a bone, but on the back. But this, though
I do not know whether it make the angler sport, yet I would have you take notice of it, because
it is a rarity, and of so high esteem with persons of great note.

Nor would I have you ignorant of a rare fish called a GUINIAD; of which I shall tell you what
Camden and others speak. The river Dee, which runs by Chester, springs in Merionethshire; and,
as it runs toward Chester, it runs through Pemble Mere, which is a large water: and it is observed,
that though the river Dee abounds with Salmon, and Pemble mere with the (Guiniad, yet there
is never any Salmon caught in the mere, nor a Guiniad in the river. And now my next observation
shall be of the Barbel.

The fourth day-continued

Of the Barbel

Chapter XIV

Piscator, Venator, Milk-woman

Piscator. The Barbel is so called, says Gesner, by reason of his barb or wattles at his mouth,
which are under his nose or chaps. He is one of those leather-mouthed fishes that I told you
of, that does very seldom break his hold if he be once hooked: but he is so strong, that he
will often break both rod and line, if he proves to be a big one.

But the Barbel, though he be of a fine shape, and looks big, yet he is not accounted the best
fish to eat, neither for his wholesomeness nor his taste; but the male is reputed much better
than the female, whose spawn is very hurtful, as I will presently declare to you.

They flock together like sheep, and are at the worst in April, about which time they spawn;
but quickly grow to be in season. He is able to live in the strongest swifts of the water:
and, in summer, they love the shallowest and sharpest streams: and love to lurk under weeds,
and to feed on gravel, against a rising ground; and will root and dig in the sands with his
nose like a hog, and there nests himself: yet sometimes he retires to deep and swift bridges,
or flood-gates, or weir; where he will nest himself amongst piles, or in hollow places; and
take such hold of moss or weeds, that be the water never so swift, it is not able to force
him from the place that he contends for. This is his constant custom in summer, when he and
most living creatures sport themselves in the sun: but at the approach of winter, then he forsakes
the swift streams and shallow waters, and, by degrees, retires to those parts of the river
that are quiet and deeper; in which places, and I think about that time he spawns; and, as
I have formerly told you, with the help of the melter, hides his spawn or eggs in holes, which
they both dig in the gravel; and then they mutually labour to cover it with the same sand,
to prevent it from being devoured by other fish.

There be such store of this fish in the river Danube, that Rondeletius says they may, in some
places of it, and in some months of the year, be taken, by those who dwell near to the river,
with their hands, eight or ten load at a time. He says, they begin to be good in May, and that
they cease to be so in August: but it is found to be otherwise in this nation. But thus far
we agree with him, that the spawn of a Barbel, if it be not poison, as he says, yet that it
is dangerous meat, and especially in the month of May, which is so certain, that Gesner and
Gasius declare it had an ill effect upon them, even to the endangering of their lives.

The fish is of a fine cast and handsome shape, with small scales, which are placed after a
most exact and curious manner, and, as I told you, may be rather said not to be ill, than to
be good meat, The Chub and he have, I think, both lost part of their credit by ill cookery;
they being reputed the worst, or coarsest, of fresh-water fish. But the Barbel affords an angler
choice sport, being a lusty and a cunning fish; so lusty and cunning as to endanger the breaking
of the angler's line, by running his head forcibly towards any covert, or hole, or bank, and
then striking at the line, to break it off, with his tail; as is observed by Plutarch, in his
book De Industria Animalium: and also so cunning, to nibble and suck off your worm close to
the hook, and yet avoid the letting the hook come into his mouth.

The Barbel is also curious for his baits; that is to say, that they be clean and sweet; that
is to say, to have your worms well scoured, and not kept in sour and musty moss, for he is
a curious feeder: but at a well-scoured lob-worm he will bite as boldly as at any bait, and
specially if, the night or two before you fish for him, you shall bait the places where you
intend to fish for him, with big worms cut into pieces. And note, that none did ever over-bait
the place, nor fish too early or too late for a Barbel. And the Barbel will bite also at generals,
which, not being too much scoured, but green, are a choice bait for him: and so is cheese,
which is not to be too hard, but kept a day or two in a wet linen cloth, to make it tough;
with this you may also bait the water a day or two before you fish for the Barbel, and be much
the likelier to catch store; and if the cheese were laid in clarified honey a short time before,
as namely, an hour or two, you were still the likelier to catch fish. Some have directed to
cut the cheese into thin pieces, and toast it; and then tie it on the hook with fine silk.
And some advise to fish for the Barbel with sheep's tallow and soft cheese, beaten or worked
into a paste; and that it is choicely good in August: and I believe it. Rut, doubtless, the
lob- worm well scoured, and the gentle not too much scoured, and cheese ordered as I have directed,
are baits enough, and I think will serve in any month: though I shall commend any angler that
tries conclusions, and is industrious to improve the art And now my honest scholar, the long
shower and my tedious discourse are both ended together: and I shall give you but this observation,
that when you fish for a Barbel, your rod and line be both long and of good strength; for,
as I told you, you will find him a heavy and a dogged fish to be dealt withal; yet he seldom
or never breaks his hold, if he be once strucken. And if you would know more of fishing for
the Umber or Barbel, get into favour with Dr. Sheldon, whose skill is above others; and of
that, the poor that dwell about him have a comfortable experience.

And now let's go and see what interest the Trouts will pay us, for letting our angle-rods lie
so long and so quietly in the water for their use. Come, scholar, which will you take up ?

Venator. Which you think fit, master.

Piscator. Why, you shall take up that; for I am certain, by viewing the line, it has a fish
at it. Look you, scholar! well done! Come, now take up the other too: well! now you may tell
my brother Peter, at night, that you have caught a leash of Trouts this day. And now let's
move towards our lodging, and drink a draught of red-cow's milk as we go; and give pretty Maudlin
and her honest mother a brace of Trouts for their supper.

Venator. Master, I like your motion very well: and I think it is now about milking-time; and
yonder they be at it

Piscator. God speed you, good woman ! I thank you both for our songs last night: I and my companion
have had such fortune a-fishing this day, that we resolve to give you and Maudlin a brace of
Trouts for supper; and we will now taste a draught of your red-cow's milk.

Milk-woman. Marry, and that you shall with all my heart; and I will be still your debtor when
you come this way. If you will but speak the word, I will make you a good syllabub of new verjuice;
and then you may sit down in a haycock, and eat it; and Maudlin shall sit by and sing you the
good old song of the " Hunting in Chevy Chace,  " or some other good ballad, for she hath store
of them: Maudlin, my honest Maudlin, hath a notable memory, and she thinks nothing too good
for you, because you be such honest men.

Venator. We thank you; and intend, once in a month to call upon you again, and give you a little
warning; and so, good-night Good-night, Maudlin. And now, good master, let's lose no time:
but tell me somewhat more of fishing; and if you please, first, something of fishing for a Gudgeon.

Piscator. I will, honest scholar.

The fourth day-continued

Of the Gudgeon, the Ruffe, and the Bleak

Chapter XV

Piscator

The GUDGEON is reputed a fish of excellent taste, and to be very wholesome. He is of a fine
shape, of a silver colour, and beautified with black spots both on his body and tail. He breeds
two or three times in the year; and always in summer. He is commended for a fish of excellent
nourishment. The Germans call him Groundling, by reason of his feeding on the ground; and he
there feasts himself, in sharp streams and on the gravel. He and the Barbel both feed so: and
do not hunt for flies at any time, as most other fishes do. He is an excellent fish to enter
a young angler, being easy to be taken with a small red worm, on or very near to the ground.
He is one of those leather-mouthed fish that has his teeth in his throat, and will hardly be
lost off from the hook if he be once strucken.

They be usually scattered up and down every river in the shallows, in the heat of summer: but
in autumn, when the weeds begin to grow sour and rot, and the weather colder, then they gather
together, and get into the deeper parts of the water; and are to be fished for there, with
your hook always touching the ground, if you fish for him with a float or with a cork. But
many will fish for the Gudgeon by hand, with a running line upon the ground, without a cork,
as a Trout is fished for: and it is an excellent way, if you have a gentle rod, and as gentle
a hand.

There is also another fish called a POPE, and by some a RUFFE; a fish that is not known to
be in some rivers: he is much like the Perch for his shape, and taken to be better than the
Perch, but will not grow to be bigger than a Gudgeon. He is an excellent fish; no fish that
swims is of a pleasanter taste. And he is also excellent to enter a young angler, for he is
a greedy biter: and they will usually lie, abundance of them together, in one reserved place,
where the water is deep and runs quietly; and an easy angler, if he has found where they lie,
may catch forty or fifty, or sometimes twice so many, at a standing.

You must fish for him with a small red worm; and if you bait the ground with earth, it is excellent.

There is also a BLEAK or fresh-water Sprat; a fish that is ever in motion, and therefore called
by some the river-swallow; for just as you shall observe the swallow to be, most evenings in
summer, ever in motion, making short and quick turns when he flies to catch flies, in the air,
by which he lives; so does the Bleak at the top of the water. Ausonius would have called him
Bleak from his whitish colour: his back is of a pleasant sad or sea-water-green; his belly,
white and shining as the mountain snow. And doubtless, though we have the fortune, which virtue
has in poor people, to be neglected, yet the Bleak ought to be much valued, though we want
Allamot salt, and the skill that the Italians have, to turn them into anchovies. This fish
may be caught with a Pater-noster line; that is, six or eight very small hooks tied along the
line, one half a foot above the other: I have seen five caught thus at one time; and the bait
has been gentles, than which none is better.

Or this fish may be caught with a fine small artificial fly, which is to be of a very sad brown
colour, and very small, and the hook answerable. There is no better sport than whipping for
Bleaks in a boat, or on a bank, in the swift water, in a summer's evening, with a hazel top
about five or six foot long, and a line twice the length of the rod. I have heard Sir Henry
Wotton say, that there be many that in Italy will catch swallows so, or especially martins;
this bird-angler standing on the top of a steeple to do it, and with the line twice so long
as I have spoken of. And let me tell you, scholar, that both Martins and Bleaks be most excellent
meat

And let me tell you, that I have known a Heron, that did constantly frequent one place, caught
with a hook baited with a big minnow or a small gudgeon. The line and hook must be strong:
and tied to some loose staff, so big as she cannot fly away with it: a line not exceeding two
yards.

The fourth day-continued

Is of nothing, or of nothing worth

Chapter XVI

Piscator, Venator, Peter, Coridon

Piscator. My purpose was to give you some directions concerning ROACH and DACE, and some other
inferior fish which make the angler excellent sport; for you know there is more pleasure in
hunting the hare than in eating her: but I will forbear, at this time, to say any more, because
you see yonder come our brother Peter and honest Coridon. But I will promise you, that as you
and I fish and walk to- morrow towards London, if I have now forgotten anything that I can
then remember, I will not keep it from you.

Well met, gentlemen; this is lucky that we meet so just together at this very door, Come, hostess,
where are you ? is supper ready ? Come, first give us a drink; and be as quick as you can,
for I believe we are all very hungry. Well, brother Peter and Coridon, to you both! Come, drink:
and then tell me what luck of fish: we two have caught but ten bouts, of which my scholar caught
three. Look! here's eight; and a brace we gave away. We have had a most pleasant day for fishing
and talking, and are returned home both weary and hungry; and now meat and rest will be pleasant.

Peter. And Coridon and I have not had an unpleasant day: and yet I have caught but five bouts;
for, indeed, we went to a good honest ale- house, and there we played at shovel-board half
the day; all the time that it rained we were there, and as merry as they that fished. And I
am glad we are now with a dry house over our heads; for, hark ! how it rains and blows. Come,
hostess, give us more ale, and our supper with what haste you may: and when we have supped,
let us have your song, Piscator; and the catch that your scholar promised us; or else, Coridon
will be dogged.

Piscator. Nay, I will not be worse than my word; you shall not want my song, and I hope I shall
be perfect in it

Venator. And I hope the like for my catch, which I have ready too: and therefore let's go merrily
to supper, and then have a gentle touch at singing and drinking; but the last with moderation.

Coridon. Come, now for your song; for we have fed heartily. Come, hostess, lay a few more sticks
on the fire. And now, sing when you will.

Piscator. Well then, here s to you, Coridon; and now for my song.

O the gallant Fisher's life, It is the best of any; 'Tis full of pleasure, void of strife,
And 'tis beloved of many: Other joys Are but toys; Only this Lawful is; For our skill Breeds
no ill, But content and pleasure.

In a morning up we rise Ere Aurora's peeping, Drink a cup to wash our eyes. Leave the sluggard
sleeping; Then we go To and fro, With our knacks At our backs To such streams As the Thames
If we have the leisure.

When we please to walk abroad For our recreation, In the fields is our abode, Full of delectation:
Where in a brook With a hook Or a lake Fish we take: There we sit For a bit, Till we fish entangle.

We have gentles in a horn, We have paste and worms too We can watch both night and morn, Suffer
rain and storms too; None do here Use to swear; Oaths do fray Fish away; We sit still, And
watch our quill Fishers must not wrangle.

If the sun's excessive heat Make our bodies swelter, To an osier hedge we get For a friendly
shelter Where, in a dike, Perch or Pike Roach or Dace We do chase Bleak or Gudgeon, Without
grudging We are still contented.

Or we sometimes pass an hour Under a green willow, That defends us from a shower, Making earth
our pillow; Where we may Think and pray Before death Stops our breath. Other joys Are but toys,
And to be lamented.

Jo. Chalkhill.

Venator. Well sung, master; this day s fortune and pleasure, and the night's company and song,
do all make me more and more in love with angling. Gentlemen, my master left me alone for an
hour this day; and I verily believe he retired himself from talking with me that he might be
so perfect in this song; was it not, master?

Piscator. Yes indeed, for it is many years since I learned it; and having forgotten a part
of it, I was forced to patch it up with the help of mine own invention, who am not excellent
at poetry, as my part of the song may testify; but of that I will say no more, lest you should
think I mean, by discommending it, to beg your commendations of it. And therefore, without
replications, let's hear your catch, scholar; which I hope will be a good one, for you are
both musical and have a good fancy to boot.

Venator. Marry, and that you shall; and as freely as I would have my honest master tell me
some more secrets of fish and fishing, as we walk and fish towards London to-morrow. But, master,
first let me tell you, that very hour which you were absent from me, I sat down under a willow-tree
by the water-side, and considered what you had told me of the owner of that pleasant meadow
in which you then left me; that he had a plentiful estate, and not a heart to think so ; that
he had at this time many law-suits depending; and that they both damped his mirth, and took
up so much of his time and thoughts, that he himself had not leisure to take the sweet content
that I, who pretended no title to them, took in his fields: for I could there sit quietly;
and looking on the water, see some fishes sport themselves in the silver streams, others leaping
at flies of several shapes and colours; looking on the hills, I could behold them spotted with
woods and groves; looking down the meadows, could see, here a boy gathering lilies and lady-smocks,
and there a girl cropping culverkeys and cowslips, all to make garlands suitable to this present
month of May: these, and many other field flowers, so perfumed the air, that I thought that
very meadow like that field in Sicily of which Diodorus speaks, where the perfumes arising
from the place make all dogs that hunt in it to fall off, and to lose their hottest scent I
say, as I thus sat, joying in my own happy condition, and pitying this poor rich man that owned
this and many other pleasant groves and meadows about me, I did thankfully remember what my
Saviour said, that the meek possess the earth; or rather, they enjoy what the others possess,
and enjoy not; for anglers and meek quiet-spirited men are free from those high, those restless
thoughts, which corrode the sweets of life; and they, and they only, can say, as the poet has
happily express it,

Hail ! blest estate of lowliness; Happy enjoyments of such minds As, rich in self-contentedness,
Can, like the reeds, in roughest winds, By yielding make that blow but small At which proud
oaks and cedars fall.

There came also into my mind at that time certain verses in praise of a mean estate and humble
mind: they were written by Phineas Fletcher, an excellent divine, and an excellent angler;
and the author of excellent Piscatory Eclogues, in which you shall see the picture of this
good man's mind: and I wish mine to be like it. His life is neither tost in boisterous, seas,
Or the vexatious world, or lost in slothful ease; Please and full blest he lives when he his
God can please. And I there made a conversion of a piece of an old catch, and added more to
it, fitting them to be sung by us anglers. Come, Master, you can sing well: you must sing a
part of it. as it is in this paper.

Man's life is but vain, for 'tis subject to pain, And sorrow, and short as a bubble; 'Tis a
hodge-podge of business, and money, and care, And care, and money, and trouble.

But we'll take no care when the weather proves fair; Nor will we vex now though it rain; We'll
banish all sorrow, and sing till to-morrow, And angle. and angle again.

Peter. I marry, Sir, this is musick indeed; this has cheer'd my heart, and made me remember
six verses in praise of musick, which I will speak to you instantly.

Musick ! miraculous rhetorick, thou speak'st sense Without a tongue, excelling eloquence ;
With what ease might thy errors be excus'd, Wert thou as truly lov'd as th' art abus'd! But
though dull souls neglect, and some reprove thee, I cannot hate thee, 'cause the Angels love thee.

Venator. And the repetition of these last verses of musick has called to my memory what Mr.
Edmund Waller, a lover of the angle, says of love and musick

Whilst I listen to thy voice, Chloris! I feel my heart decay That powerful voice Calls my fleeting
soul away: Oh! suppress that magic sound, Which destroys without a wound.

Peace, Chloris! peace, or singing die, That together you and I To heaven may go; For all we
know Of what the blessed do above Is, that they sing, and that they love.

Piscator. Well remembered, brother Peter; these verses came seasonably, and we thank you heartily.
Come, we will all join together, my host and all, and sing my scholar's catch over again; and
then each man drink the tother cup, and to bed; and thank God we have a dry house over our heads.

Piscator. Well, now, good-night to everybody. Peter. And so say I.

Venator. And so say I.

Coridon. Good-night to you all; and I thank you.

The FIFTH day.

Piscator. Good-morrow, brother Peter, and the like to you, honest Coridon.

Come, my hostess says there is seven shillings to pay: let's each man drink a pot for his morning's
draught, and lay down his two shillings, so that my hostess may not have occasion to repent
herself of being so diligent, and using us so kindly.

Peter. The motion is liked by everybody, and so, hostess, here's your money: we anglers are
all beholden to you; it will not be long ere I'll see you again; and now, brother Piscator,
I wish you, and my brother your scholar, a fair day and good fortune. Come, Coridon, this is
our way.

The FIFTH day-continued

Of Roack and Dace

Chapter XVII

Venator and Piscator

Venator. Good master, as we go now towards London, be still so courteous as to give me more
instructions; for I have several boxes in my memory, in which I will keep them all very safe,
there shall not one of them be lost.

Piscator. Well, scholar, that I will: and I will hide nothing from you that I can remember,
and can think may help you forward towards a perfection in this art. And because we have so
much time, and I have said so little of Roach and Dace, I will give you some directions concerning
them.

Some say the Roach is so called from rutilus, which they say signifies red fins. He is a fish
of no great reputation for his dainty taste; and his spawn is accounted much better than any
other part of him. And you may take notice, that as the Carp is accounted the water-fox, for
his cunning; so the Roach is accounted the water-sheep, for his simplicity or foolishness.
It is noted, that the Roach and Dace recover strength, and grow in season in a fortnight after
spawning; the Barbel and Chub in a month; the Trout in four months; and the Salmon in the like
time, if he gets into the sea, and after into fresh water.

Roaches be accounted much better in the river than in a pond, though ponds usually breed the
biggest. But there is a kind of bastard small Roach, that breeds in ponds, with a very forked
tail, and of a very small size; which some say is bred by the Bream and right Roach; and some
ponds are stored with these beyond belief; and knowing-men, that know their difference, call
them Ruds: they differ from the true Roach, as much as a Herring from a Pilchard. And these
bastard breed of Roach are now scattered in many rivers: but I think not in the Thames, which
I believe affords the largest and fattest in this nation, especially below London Bridge. The
Roach is a leather-mouthed fish, and has a kind of saw-like teeth in his throat. And lastly,
let me tell you, the Roach makes an angler excellent sport, especially the great Roaches about
London, where I think there be the best Roach-anglers. And I think the best Trout-anglers be
in Derbyshire; for the waters there are clear to an extremity.

Next, let me tell you, you shall fish for this Roach in Winter, with paste or gentles; in April,
with worms or cadis; in the very hot months, with little white snails; or with flies under
water, for he seldom takes them at the top, though the Dace will. In many of the hot months,
Roaches may also be caught thus: take a May-fly, or ant-fly, sink him with a little lead to
the bottom, near to the piles or posts of a bridge, or near to any posts of a weir, I mean
any deep place where Roaches lie quietly, and then pull your fly up very leisurely, and usually
a Roach will follow your bait up to the very top of the water, and gaze on it there, and run
at it, and take it, lest the fly should fly away from him.

I have seen this done at Windsor and Henley Bridge, and great store of Roach taken; and sometimes,
a Dace or Chub. And in August you may fish for them with a paste made only of the crumbs of
bread, which should be of pure fine manchet; and that paste must be so tempered betwixt your
hands till it be both soft and tough too: a very little water, and time, and labour, and clean
hands, will make it a most excellent paste. But when you fish with it, you must have a small
hook, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, or the bait is lost, and the fish too; if one may lose
that which he never had. With this paste you may, as I said, take both the Roach and the Dace
or Dare; for they be much of a kind, in manner of feeding, cunning, goodness, and usually in
size. And therefore take this general direction, for some other baits which may concern you
to take notice of: they will bite almost at any fly, but especially at ant-flies; concerning
which take this direction, for it is very good.

Take the blackish ant-fly out of the mole-hill or ant-hill, in which place you shall find them
in the month of June; or if that be too early in the year, then, doubtless, you may find them
in July, August, and most of September. Gather them alive, with both their wings: and then
put them into a glass that will hold a quart or a pottle; but first put into the glass a handful,
or more, of the moist earth out of which you gather them, and as much of the roots of the grass
of the said hillock; and then put in the flies gently, that they lose not their wings: lay
a clod of earth over it; and then so many as are put into the glass, without bruising, will
live there a month or more, and be always in readiness for you to fish with: but if you would
have them keep longer, then get any great earthen pot, or barrel of three or four gallons.
which is better. then wash your barrel with water and honey; and having put into it a quantity
of earth and grass roots, then put in your flies, and cover it, and they will live a quarter
of a year. These, in any stream and clear water, are a deadly bait for Roach or Dace, or for
a Chub: and your rule is to fish not less than a handful from the bottom.

I shall next tell you a winter-bait for a Roach, a Dace, or Chub; and it is choicely good.
About All-hallantide, and so till frost comes, when you see men ploughing up heath ground,
or sandy ground, or greenswards, then follow the plough, and you shall find a white worm, as
big as two maggots, and it hath a red head: you may observe in what ground most are, for there
the crows will be very watchful and follow the plough very close: it is all soft, and full
of whitish guts; a worm that is, in Norfolk and some other counties, called a grub; and is
bred of the spawn or eggs of a beetle, which she leaves in holes that she digs in the ground
under cow or horse dung, and there rests all winter, and in March or April comes to be first
a red and then a black beetle. Gather a thousand or two of these, and put them, with a peck
or two of their own earth, into some tub or firkin, and cover and keep them so warm that the
frost or cold air, or winds, kill them not: these you may keep all winter, and kill fish with
them at any time; and if you put some of them into a little earth and honey, a day before you
use them, you will find them an excellent bait for Bream, Carp, or indeed for almost any fish.

And after this manner you may also keep gentles all winter; which are a good bait then, and
much the better for being lively and tough. Or you may breed and keep gentles thus: take a
piece of beast's liver, and, with a cross stick, hang it in some corner, over a pot or barrel
half full of dry clay; and as the gentles grow big, they will fall into the barrel and scour
themselves, and be always ready for use whensoever you incline to fish; and these gentles may
be thus created till after Michaelmas. But if you desire to keep gentles to fish with all the
year, then get a dead cat, or a kite, and let it be flyblown; and when the gentles begin to
be alive and to stir, then bury it and them in soft moist earth, but as free from frost as
you can; and these you may dig up at any time when you intend to use them: these will last
till March, and about that time turn to be flies.

But if you be nice to foul your fingers, which good anglers seldom are, then take this bait:
get a handful of well-made malt, and put it into a dish of water; and then was]l and rub it
betwixt your hands till you make it clean, and as free from husks as you can; then put that
water from it, and put a small quantity of fresh water to it, and set it in something that
is fit for that purpose, over the fire, where it is not to boil apace, but leisurely and very
softly, until it become somewhat soft, which you may try by feeling it betwixt your finger
and thumb; and when it is soft, then put your water from it: and then take a sharp knife, and
turning the sprout end of the corn upward with the point of your knife, take the back part
of the husk off from it, and yet leaving a kind of inward husk on the corn, or else it is marr'd
and then cut off that sprouted end, I mean a little of it, that the white may appear; and so
pull off the husk on the cloven side, as I directed you; and then cutting off a very little
of the other end, that so your hook may enter; and if your hook be small and good, you will
find this to be a very choice bait, either for winter or summer, you sometimes casting a little
of it into the place where your float swims.

And to take the Roach and Dace, a good bait is the young brood of wasps or bees, if you dip
their heads in blood; especially good for Bream, if they be baked, or hardened in their husks
in an oven, after the bread is taken out of it; or hardened on a fire-shovel: and so also is
the thick blood of sheep, being half dried on a trencher, that so you may cut into such pieces
as may best fit the size of your hook; and a little salt keeps it from growing black, and makes
it not the worse, but better: this is taken to be a choice bait, if rightly ordered.

There be several oils of a strong smell that I have been told of, and to be excellent to tempt
fish to bite, of which I could say much. But I remember I once carried a small bottle from
Sir George Hastings to Sir Henry Wotton, they were both chemical men, as a great present: it
was sent, and receiv'd, and us'd, with great confidence; and yet, upon inquiry, I found it
did not answer the expectation of Sir Henry; which, with the help of this and other circumstances,
makes me have little belief in such things as many men talk of. Not but that I think that fishes
both smell and hear, as I have express in my former discourse: but there is a mysterious knack,
which though it be much easier than the philosopher's stone, yet is not attainable by common
capacities, or else lies locked up in the brain or breast of some chemical man, that, like
the Rosicrucians, will not yet reveal it. But let me nevertheless tell you, that camphire,
put with moss into your worm-bag with your worms, makes them, if many anglers be not very much
mistaken, a tempting bait, and the angler more fortunate. But I stepped by chance into this
discourse of oils, and fishes smelling; and though there might be more said, both of it and
of baits for Roach and Dace and other float-fish, vet I will for bear it at this time, and
tell you, in the next place, how you are to prepare your tackling: concerning which, I will,
for sport sake, give you an old rhyme out of an old fish book; which will prove a part, and
but a part, of what you are to provide.

My rod and my line, my float and my lead, My hook and my plummet, my whetstone and knife, My
basket, my baits, both living and dead, My net, and my meat, for that is the chief: Then I
must have thread, and hairs green and small, With mine angling purse: and so you have all.

But you must have all these tackling, and twice so many more, with which, if you mean to be
a fisher, you must store yourself; and to that purpose I will go with you, either to Mr. Margrave,
who dwells amongst the book-sellers in St. Paul's Church-yard, or to Mr. John Stubs, near to
the Swan in Goldinglane: they be both honest, an, and will fit an angler with what tackling
he lacks.

Venator. Then, good master, let it be at-- for he is nearest to my dwelling. And I pray let's
meet there the ninth of May next, about two of the clock; and I'll want nothing that a fisher
should be furnished with.

Piscator. Well, and I'll not fail you, God willing, at the time and place appointed.

Venator. I thank you, good master, and I will not fail you. And, good master, tell me what
BAITS more you remember; for it will not now be long ere we shall be at Tottenham-High-Cross;
and when we come thither I will make you some requital of your pains, by repeating as choice
a copy of Verses as any we have heard since we met together; and that is a proud word, for
we have heard very good ones.

Piscator Well, scholar, and I shall be then right glad to hear them. And I will, as we walk,
tell you whatsoever comes in my mind, that I think may be worth your hearing. You may make
another choice bait thus: take a handful or two of the best and biggest wheat you can get;
boil it in a little milk, like as frumity is boiled; boil it so till it be soft; and then fry
it, very leisurely, with honey, and a little beaten saffron dissolved in milk; and you will
find this a choice bait, and good, I think, for any fish, especially for Roach, Dace, Chub,
or Grayling: I know not but that it may be as good for a river Carp, and especially if the
ground be a little baited with it.

And you may also note, that the SPAWN of most fish is a very tempting bait, being a little
hardened on a warm tile and cut into fit pieces. Nay, mulberries, and those black-berries which
grow upon briars, be good baits for Chubs or Carps: with these many have been taken in ponds,
and in some rivers where such trees have grown near the water, and the fruit customarily drops
into it. And there be a hundred other baits, more than can be well named, which, by constant
baiting the water, will become a tempting bait for any fish in it.

You are also to know, that there be divers kinds of CADIS, or Case- worms, that are to be found
in this nation, in several distinct counties, in several little brooks that relate to bigger
rivers; as namely, one cadis called a piper, whose husk, or case, is a piece of reed about
an inch long, or longer, and as big about as the compass of a two-pence. These worms being
kept three or four days in a woollen bag, with sand at the bottom of it, and the bag wet once
a day, will in three or four days turn to be yellow; and these be a choice bait for the Chub
or Chavender, or indeed for any great fish, for it is a large bait.

There is also a lesser cadis-worm, called a Cockspur, being in fashion like the spur of a cock,
sharp at one end: and the case, or house. in which this dwells, is made of small husks, and
gravel, and slime, most curiously made of these, even so as to be wondered at, but not to be
made by man, no more than a king-fisher's nest can, which is made of little fishes' bones,
and have such a geometrical interweaving and connection as the like is not to be done by the
art of man. This kind of cadis is a choice bait for any float-fish; it is much less than the
piper- cadis, and to be so ordered: and these may be so preserved, ten, fifteen, or twenty
days, or it may be longer.

There is also another cadis, called by some a Straw-worm, and by some a Ruff-coat, whose house,
or case, is made of little pieces of bents, and rushes, and straws, and water-weeds, and I
know not what; which are so knit together with condensed slime, that they stick about her husk
or case, not unlike the bristles of a hedge-hog. These three cadises are commonly taken in
the beginning of summer; and are good, indeed, to take any kind of fish, with float or otherwise.
I might tell you of many more, which as they do early, so those have their time also of turning
to be flies in later summer; but I might lose myself, and tire you, by such a discourse: I
shall therefore but remember you, that to know these, and their several kinds, and to what
flies every particular cadis turns, and then how to use them, first as they be cadis, and after
as they be flies, is an art, and an art that every one that professes to be an angler has not
leisure to search after, and, if he had, is not capable of learning.

I'll tell you, scholar; several countries have several kinds of cadises, that indeed differ
as much as dogs do; that is to say, as much as a very cur and a greyhound do. These be usually
bred in the very little rills, or ditches, that run into bigger rivers; and I think a more
proper bait for those very rivers than any other. I know not how, or of what, this cadis receives
life, or what coloured fly it turns to; but doubtless they are the death of many Trouts: and
this is one killing way:

Take one, or more if need be, of these large yellow cadis: pull off his head, and with it pull
out his black gut; put the body, as little bruised as is possible, on a very little hook, armed
on with a red hair, which will shew like the cadis-head; and a very little thin lead, so put
upon the shank of the hook that it may sink presently. Throw this bait, thus ordered, which
will look very yellow, into any great still hole where a Trout is, and he will presently venture
his life for it, it is not to be doubted, if you be not espied; and that the bait first touch
the water before the line. And this will do best in the deepest stillest water.

Next, let me tell you, I have been much pleased to walk quietly by a brook, with a little stick
in my hand, with which I might easily take these, and consider the curiosity of their composure:
and if you should ever like to do so, then note, that your stick must be a little hazel, or
willow, cleft, or have a nick at one end of it, by which means you may, with ease, take many
of them in that nick out of the water, before you have any occasion to use them. These, my
honest scholar, are some observations, told to you as they now come suddenly into my memory,
of which you may make some use: but for the practical part, it is that that makes an angler:
it is diligence, and observation, and practice, and an ambition to be the best in the art,
that must do it. I will tell you, scholar, I once heard one say, " I envy not him that eats
better meat than I do; nor him that is richer, or that wears better clothes than I do: I envy
nobody but him, and him only, that catches more fish than I do ". And such a man is like to
prove an angler; and this noble emulation I wish to you, and all young anglers.

The FIFTH day-continued

Of the Minnow, or Penk; Loach, Bull-Head, or Miller's- Thumb: and the Stickle-bag

Chapter XVIII

Piscator and Venator

Piscator. There be also three or four other little fish that I had almost forgot; that are
all without scales; and may for excellency of meat, be compared to any fish of greatest value
and largest size. They be usually full of eggs or spawn, all the months of summer; for they
breed often, as 'tis observed mice and many of the smaller four-footed creatures of the earth
do and as those, so these come quickly to their full growth and perfection. And it is needful
that they breed both often and numerously; for they be, besides other accidents of ruin, both
a prey and baits for other fish. And first I shall tell you of the Minnow or Penk.

The MINNOW hath, when he is in perfect season, and not sick, which is only presently after
spawning, a kind of dappled or waved colour, like to a panther, on its sides, inclining to
a greenish or sky-colour; his belly being milk white; and his back almost black or blackish.
He is a sharp biter at a small worm, and in hot weather makes excellent sport for young anglers,
or boys, or women that love that recreation. And in the spring they make of them excellent
Minnow-tansies; for being washed well in salt, and their heads and tails cut off, and their
guts taken out, and not washed after, they prove excellent for that use; that is, being fried
with yolk of eggs, the flowers of cowslips and of primroses, and a little tansy; thus used
they make a dainty dish of meat.

The LOACH is, as I told you, a most dainty fish: he breeds and feeds in little and clear swift
brooks or rills, and lives there upon the gravel, and in the sharpest streams: he grows not
to be above a finger long, and no thicker than is suitable to that length The Loach is not
unlike the shape of the Eel: he has a beard or wattles like a barbel. He has two fins at his
sides, four at his belly, and one et his tail; he is dappled with many black or brown spots;
his mouth is barbel-like under his nose. This fish is usually full of eggs or spawn; and is
by Gesner, and other learned physicians, commended for great nourishment, and to be very grateful
both to the palate and stomach of sick persons. He is to be fished for with a very small worm,
at the bottom; for he very seldom, or never, rises above the gravel, on which I told you he
usually gets his living.

The MILLER'S-THUMB, or BULL-HEAD, is a fish of no pleasing shape. He is by Gesner compared
to the Sea-toad-fish, for his similitude and shape. It has a head big and flat, much greater
than suitable to his body; a mouth very wide, and usually gaping; he is without teeth, but
his lips are very rough, much like to a file. He hath two fins near to his gills, which be
roundish or crested; two fins also under the belly; two on the back; one below the vent; and
the fin of his tail is round. Nature hath painted the body of this fish with whitish, blackish,
brownish spots. They be usually full of eggs or spawn all the summer, I mean the females; and
those eggs swell their vents almost into the form of a dug They begin to spawn about April,
and, as I told you, spawn several months in the summer. And in the winter, the Minnow, and
Loach, and Bull-head dwell in the mud, as the Eel doth; or we know not where, no more than
we know where the cuckoo and swallow, and other half-year birds, which first appear to us in
April, spend their six cold, winter, melancholy months. This BULL-HEAD does usually dwell,
and hide himself, in holes, or amongst stones in clear water; and in very hot days will lie
a long time very still, and sun himself, and will be easy to be seen upon any flat stone, or
any gravel; at which time he will suffer an angler to put a hook, baited with a small worm,
very near unto his very mouth: and he never refuses to bite, nor indeed to be caught with the
worst of anglers. Matthiolus commends him much more for his taste and nourishment, than for
his shape or beauty.

There is also a little fish called a STICKLEBAG, a fish without scales, but hath his body fenced
with several prickles. I know not where he dwells in winter; nor what he is good for in summer,
but only to make sport for boys and women-anglers, and to feed other fish that be fish of prey,
as Trouts in particular, who will bite at him as at a Penk; and better, if your hook be rightly
baited with him, for he may be so baited as, his tail turning like the sail of a wind-mill,
will make him turn more quick than any Penk or Minnow can. For note, that the nimble turning
of that, or the Minnow is the perfection of Minnow-fishing. To which end, if you put your hook
into his mouth, and out at his tail; and then, having first tied him with white thread a little
above his tail, and placed him after such a manner on your hook as he is like to turn then
sew up his mouth to your line, and he is like to turn quick, and tempt any Trout: but if he
does not turn quick, then turn his tail, a little more or less, towards the inner part, or
towards the side of the hook; or put the Minnow or Sticklebag a little more crooked or more
straight on your hook, until it will turn both true and fast; and then doubt not but to tempt
any great Trout that lies in a swift stream. And the Loach that I told you of will do the like:
no bait is more tempting, provided the Loach be not too big.

And now, scholar, with the help of this fine morning, and your patient attention, I have said
all that my present memory will afford me, concerning most of the several fish that are usually
fished for in fresh waters.

Venator. Your sister is great, you brother
is a saint, but you should live life with them and half at their expense.

Inesita sighed, and continued love:

- In the town, for you, you're a real girl, how he had to miss a rich landowner, a homeowner or
farmer with the kidney well covered, which aspire to your hand? But here I find it difficult.
The rich go to the Marquesas duped and duchesses, or a thousand rascal bad breed, who exploit
them. What's left for poor girls like you?

Nothing ... the cheesy nickname that usually prodigaros ... and a liquid Don degollante, more
shame and hunger more traps than average living.

- Who knows, loves?
- Said Ines -.

Do not worry so much about me. God will provide. Goodbye, and let me alone.

The housekeeper was forced to leave.

He kissed his girl, and advised to turn off soon light and fall asleep, they left the room, carefully
closing the door.

Ines was not well in the desert, pulled out of hiding the letter and read as follows:

"My dear lady and dear friend: Despite the respect that I have always treated you, you will
not have noticed the more than brotherly love since you were a little girl teachers. The class difference
between you and me and my lack of fortune, gave me no never mind, while you were here, nor could
I even dream that you expect him to do so I said, accepting my hand. Since you lack the people
God has favored me, bless my work and sleepless nights, and I already have incomes and means to
live here with family, almost as well as the wealthy.

This change or improvement in my position and the consideration that your sister and her husband
took an honest man and poor, and you should not be any more ambitious and demanding that she
give me after the boldness that I have missed to the day, and I have to declare that I love and
that I should be the happiest of men if you come to me.

"I know the nobility and generosity of heart to you, and I know I will never marry you by simple
calculation, but I'm not so thoughtlessly enthusiast who does not
understand that by giving important step as the link for all and raise
a family, not to be consulted, weighed and measured the difficulties
in life, and the resources that exist to overcome them.

For the latter, I tell you frankly, do not believe that it's offended, I have today Pretty
good. From what I can tell you I own circumstances, his brother and
friend My Don Braulio.

"As for me, you know me and decide. I know you do not deserve it, but the love makes me bold, and
implore him to lend me the merits that I need.

"I do not want you to decide at once, but after most careful consideration, so that not have
to repent of lightness. The life of Madrid must have special attractions for girls. I want to
see you in Madrid, and know and appreciate all these attractions, to renounce them, knowing
what waiver, when I give a yes, if by that I given. If you would join your fate to mine, would
be respected and loved here, and the surround yo anything that might be pleasing, to the welfare
and culture of these places I agree, but you would have to abandon all idea of ​​returning, were
not a step large cities. My ambition and all my life plans are coded in care my flow and doing
more in this town where I live also my children, if God's given me.

Why put a period to the answer I want, and I beg you not give me the rush. My impatience is
great, but I restrain my impatience when this is my lifelong happiness, and above all, of you,
I is a thousand times more expensive.

"I have a whim and caprice call him because it would be neat state here the grounds on which
is founded: I have a fancy to you, in full freedom, without anyone
to influence their advice for or against, decide my fate, rejected,
or favoring.

"So this statement of mine is a secret to everyone, including his
wife's sister you, Dona Beatriz.

Only Don Braulio know the step I take, but he has promised Don Braulio not advocate for me, and just
give you the reports you requested.

"I will wait until within a month, at least. Do not attribute you coldness of my soul this long wait
that I impose. Atribúyalo the idea so high that I have the solemnity and therefore commitment to
induce you to enter.

"I said to you to, but not you that dude, even despised, will always
admiring your affectionate and loving, Paco Ramirez.

"

Inesita read this letter with very great satisfaction, showing it
in the lipstick that animated and lit his face.

No one, however, that would have been in that moment, except for powers supernatural to read
souls, if satisfaction had discovered was just vanity to be loved, or even love for the person
who was determined to woo her.

Read the letter, Inesita rose from bed, opened the top drawer of the dresser and kept the letter
in it locked up.

Then lay down again, turned off the light and placed comfortably to meditate perhaps on content of that
document, and sleep at last.

VI

The next morning, Ines and Don Braulio, while Dona Beatriz, less early bird that , was still in bed,
had a long conversation about the letter undoubtedly Paco Ramírez.

Then they went to church together the two sisters, then all had lunch, and finally, Don Braulio,
not without promise before that night would lead to the two girls of the Gardens Buen Retiro, went
to the Ministry of Finance. Although Sunday, Don Braulio prompted his departure, or gave an
excuse for it, assuming it was extraordinary occupations.

Back in his office, where no one had come over him, Don Braulio, instead
of studying records, long time was sitting with his elbows on his
office and hands on the cheeks, studying himself.

This study should not give very satisfactory results. Don Braulio sighed several times, knit
his brows, showed some anger taking some punches, and eventually relent and shed two tears, slowly
sailed her face.

Then, as by way of ease and comfort, Paco Ramírez wrote the following letter:

"Dear Paco: Last night I fulfilled your request with all the requirements and precautions that
you gave me. Beatriz ignored and will ignore the step you have taken. Agnes is very secretive.
As the effect of reading your letter may have had on his mind, I do not know what to say.
This morning I spoke with Agnes, but the heart of a maiden is impenetrable, unfathomable as an
abyss.

Modesty, candor, innocence, all these garments, men believe long, are no longer a thick veil,
but a high, thick wall, which serves to repair heart to not be noticed or read what it mind
reading. Hence the deception men often have more clear, but are not cheating when you no longer
have Remedy: After marrying.

"Inesita seems, and I think that is candid, good, frank, everything you can imagine, but does
not leave you to discover not whether or not, but if your letter has not been flattered and flattered.
That's right: she has been very grateful for the affection and confidence that inspires you.
In terms I infer also told me something very important. If Agnes had thought reflectively this
other thing would be something to censor much thought, but I think
she feels one instinctively, not realizing comprehensive, and sensible,
however, fair.

In sum, Agnes does not calculate or thinks, but feels and perceives that your plan is bad and
caused the error. You will offer to be decided in a month or for the pleasures of this capital,
for the triumphs self-esteem can be here and ambitious hopes which may be incurred in soul, or for
yourself, your love and your hand. This would be discrete if there were no circumstances it
spoils and has discovered her at once.

"It is this fact of your absence. Missing you and present all such property, apparent or Real,
who has to leave for you, the game is not the same. Not you who struggle, but your memory,
which, if one side is worth less than the individual, on the other hand may be worth much more if
it beautifies poetry. In short: Inesita not going to leave this for you, because you prefer,
but for the recollection of you, who has not seen for three years. The memory also have to be
confusing, incomplete, diverse lot, and it will be completed and transform it with fantasy.
She will not be remembered as a woman remembers a man, as a bride remembers her boyfriend, but
as a young girl remembers her older brother.

Has, then add the imaginary quality of loving and thinking about you other than to now thought.

"All
this and more, you will understand without my saying so, is stirred in the mind of Agnes.
I interpret, perhaps I'm wrong, but it seems to me that she wonders: "Would I like Paco, when he
saw him in town, as it should like a boyfriend to his girlfriend?

"I loved only brother? And if I liked as a boyfriend, was it because he deserves it or because
the people I had not seen other men who deserve it more? Do not be happening to me now poetic
Paco in my memory, and to find, when you see him, well under the
memory itself?

In its own soul, can not be such a phenomenon?

Whatever it is, explain it as want to explain, it is certain that nothing I said that I loved
when we lived together, and Now, I do not see three years ago, I
declared his love and wants to marry me.

What is this? "Agnes does not answer such questions. It does not solve any doubt that the assault.
I understand, then, that what you want, but dared not tell me, is that you come by here; only
way for her to see clearly everything to convince you love, and understanding if she loves you,
all the charms prefiriéndote Madrid, which, indeed, are a thousand
times smaller than you think, for the poor like us.

"Ines has not expressed, again, the desire to come. I am who I guess she this desire that has no reason
to feel and express. She can not say, "Come to see if I like and
then talk, then I say yes or you'll squash.

"This, however, is reasonable.

"Moreover, I have nothing to say against your plans, but much to applaud. If you marry, must stay
there, where you are one of the first, and not come to large populations, where have to be from
the past.

"For men of a certain class and married women with certain conditions this life is terrible.

"To
you alone, you're my closest friend and loyal, I can tell you, and I can not help you tell you, in
order to alleviate the weight of my troubled heart, I am very unhappy.

"Beatriz married me for love. Despite the big age difference, I wanted to, not being inferior
to those seen here. I think that Beatrice is loving me, but the fear that I miss the affection,
the suspicion that the high opinion of me stooping to be formed continuous, it constantly
startled me.

"The contempt is contagious. By dint of looking at my wife the poor performance I do, I neglected
I am, the lowly position I hold, do not end up neglected, too? Do not end up hate me if I considered
that the victim of my bad luck? Hence, although poor, was a lady of the first. Here is the wife
of a dark and miserable clerk, whom nobody pays any attention.

"I have my theory, I comfort of my bad luck and bag except my pride. But How to convert my wife
and make a believer of my theory? Does not it seem fake?

"My theory is as follows. I believe that understanding is one, and I imagine a tool for measure
you like the thermometer. Let's get it 100 degrees, which is round number, and 20, in my opinion,
sufficient for all practical life, if fortune is blowing and the circumstances are favorable.
With the 20 degrees it becomes minister extolled, prince of great merit, president of a republic,
a banker and even powerful cardinal and pope. To make all these moderately papers just half the
degrees, just 10. Let us, however, prodigious and awarded 20 of the notables of the highest social
and political life. All Grades of understanding that you have at top 20 will be not only useless
but harmful, you distract from what matters to your interest, you will think in many cases unnecessary,
not think that fools you stirred up hatred of other men, or will make you look as an oddball,
quirky, and nothing will serve you if you do not reach the 100, which and grades are genius.
May also excite your love hurt you and making you own think you're a genius or you're close to
it, which is likely to get in ridiculous. To be a genius required 100 degrees well covered, and
yet the genius is often left latent if not favorable destiny brings
out.

Then appear Cervantes, Newton, Shakespeare, Hegel and other such. While there does not appear
to be more deplorable and funny man that is, in our century, more than 20 degrees of understanding,
needed to reach to the most sublime of practical life, in the midst
of civilization or environment around us.

It is clear that, as mankind progresses, the level will rise and will need more degrees to the
practical, and in old age, it required less. In the wild, put by-case basis, only two or three
degrees. Not required to hunt and fish, to stratagems warrior, etc.,
but some cunning, a certain instinct little higher than wild beasts.

All grades of understanding on this was then a man was Don funestísimo and absurd luxury. Now, as
the war have been applied to mathematics and other sciences and hunting and fishing in the stock
market in the Congress, in commercial and industrial companies, not shooting arrows, but by
creating securities, stocks, bonds and other projectiles complicated
grades needed are 20.

Again, as the world goes quickly, within a couple of centuries will be needed 40, but for now,
is already aviado the passing of 20. What a horrible nuisance in grades that you can spare! The
sense deeper, more philosophical, most momentous of the sentence is too clever by the superiority
pitiful. All fired the shots that escape through white top.

Well above the critical killer all inspiration and kills you. Do not do a thousand things because
you seem silly, another makes, and thrives. Instead, what you do to seem unobtrusive, or misunderstood,
or judged only for success, which is often deplorable, seems silly to everyone.

        "This is, in short, my theory. In vain she
      tried to comfort me in my short venture, taking the innocent vanity
of believing more than 20 degrees and spend the ready in deepest philosophical
meaning of the phrase.

"This grim satisfaction that I give others is worth it convoluted
for my wife. She does not look it's going to walk, living in poor
house, no one attends, and that respect, consideration and flattery
that craves being surrounded by waning missing mine.

"I note, measure,
calculated instant by instant the rapid progress that makes this evil
in the heart it. In this step I also ready. I'm ready to haunt me.
I compare your doctor when he notices the progress of tuberculosis
in a loved one, provided the damage is to do and not even know how
to avoid or remedy.

"I see too well clear contempt for me that is
slowly entering the heart of Beatrice and devouring the affection
that I have. But how to prevent this? How do I prove I'm worth more
than the blessed and exalted and rich? The speech made against them
seem suggested by envy and makes me despicable in his eyes.

"If I
was young, beautiful and robust, I would hope that it continue Beatriz
loving, but no longer on a high opinion of my clothes intellectuals,
but I'm old and ailing, and I'm puny and ugly as hell. I applied,
therefore bitterly that question the poet:

What is the devil, Christ
lives!, If you remove the view ready?

And without hesitation I answer:
Nothing. Soon there will be nothing left for me in the heart of it,
but offensive compassion, if not spend all that takes pity herself.
And you better not feel sorry for me. Nay, let me tell you, there be many that have forty times
our estates, that would give the greatest part of it to be healthful and cheerful like us,
who, with the expense of a little money, have eat and drunk, and laughed, and angled, and sung,
and slept securely; and rose next day and cast away care, and sung, and laughed, and angled
again; which are blessings rich men cannot purchase with all their money. Let me tell you,
Scholar, I have a rich neighbour that is always so busy that he has no leisure to laugh; the
whole business of his life is to get money, and more money, that he may still get more and
more money; he is still drudging on, and says, that Solomon says '`The diligent hand maketh
rich"; and it is true indeed: but he considers not that it is not in the power of riches to
make a man happy; for it was wisely said, by a man of great observation, " That there be as
many miseries beyond riches as on this side of them ". And yet God deliver us from pinching
poverty; and grant, that having a competency, we may be content and thankful. Let not us repine,
or so much as think the gifts of God unequally dealt, if we see another abound with riches;
when, as God knows, the cares that are the keys that keep those riches hang often so heavily
at the rich man's girdle, that they clog him with weary days and restless nights, even when
others sleep quietly. We see but the outside of the rich man's happiness: few consider him
to be like the silk-worm, that, when she seems to play, is, at the very same time, spinning
her own bowels, and consuming herself; and this many rich men do, loading themselves with corroding
cares, to keep what they have, probably, unconscionably got Let us, therefore, be thankful
for health and a competence; and above all, for a quiet conscience. And this may appear, if
we read and consider what our Saviour says in St. Matthew's Gospel; for He there says" I have
been told, that if a man that was born blind could obtain to have his sight for but only one
hour during his whole life, and should, at the first opening of his eyes, fix his sight upon
the sun when it was in its full glory, either at the rising or setting of it, he would be so
transported and amazed, and so admire the glory of it, that he would not willingly turn his
eyes from that first ravishing object, to behold all the other various beauties this world
could present to him. And this, and many other like blessings, we enjoy daily. And for the
most of them, because they be so common, most men forget to pay their praises: but let not
us; because it is a sacrifice so pleasing to Him that made that sun and us, and still protects
us, and gives us flowers, and showers, and stomachs, and meat, and content, and leisure to
go a-fishing.

Well, Scholar, I have almost tired myself, and, I fear, more than almost tired you. But I now
see Tottenham High-Cross; and our short walk thither shall put a period to my too long discourse;
in which my meaning was, and is, to plant that in your mind with which I labour to possess
my own soul; that is, a meek and thankful heart. And to that end I have shewed you, that riches
without them, do not make any man happy. But let me tell you, that riches with them remove
many fears and cares. And therefore my advice is, that you endeavour to be honestly rich, or
contentedly poor: but be sure that your riches be justly got, or you spoil all. For it is well
said by Caussin, " He that loses his conscience has nothing left that is worth keeping ". Therefore
be sure you look to that. And, in the next place, look to your health: and if you have it,
praise God, and value it next to a good conscience; for health is the second blessing that
we mortals are capable of; a blessing that money cannot buy; and therefore value it, and be
thankful for it. As for money, which may be said to be the third blessing, neglect it not:
but note, that there is no necessity of being rich; for I told you, there be as many miseries
beyond riches as on this side them: and if you have a competence, enjoy it with a meek, cheerful,
thankful heart. I will tell you, Scholar, I have heard a grave Divine say, that God has two
dwellings; one in heaven, and the other in a meek and thankful heart; which Almighty God grant
to me, and to my honest Scholar. And so you are welcome to Tottenham High-Cross.

Venator. Well, Master, I thank you for all your good directions; but for none more than this
last, of thankfulness, which I hope I shall never forget. And pray let's now rest ourselves
in this sweet shady arbour, which nature herself has woven with her own fine fingers; 'tis
such a contexture of woodbines, sweetbriar, jasmine, and myrtle; and so interwoven, as will
secure us both from the sun's violent heat, and from the approaching shower. And being set
down, I will requite a part of your courtesies with a bottle of sack, milk, oranges, and sugar,
which, all put together, make a drink like nectar; indeed, too good for any but us Anglers,
And so, Master, here is a full glass to you of that liquor: and when you have pledged me, I
will repeat the Verses which I promised you: it is a Copy printed among some of Sir Henry Wotton's,
and doubtless made either by him, or by a lover of angling. Come, Master, now drink a glass
to me, and then I will pledge you, and fall to my repetition; it is a description of such country
recreations as I have enjoyed since I had the happiness to fall into your company.

Fly from our country pastimes, fly, Sad troops of human misery.

Here's no fantastick mask, nor dance, But of our kids that frisk and prance; Nor wars are seen
Unless upon the green Two harmless lambs are butting one the other, Which done, both bleating
run, each to his mother And wounds are never found, Save what the plough-share gives the ground.

Here are no false entrapping baits, To hasten too, too hasty Fates, Unless it be The fond credulity
Of silly fish, which worldling like, still look Upon the bait, but never on the hook; Nor envy,
unless among The birds, for prize of their sweet song.

Piscator. Trust me, Scholar, I thank you heartily for these Verses: they be choicely good,
and doubtless made by a lover of angling. Come, now, drink a glass to me, and I will requite
you with another very good copy: it is a farewell to the vanities of the world, and some say
written by Sir Harry Wotton, who I told you was an excellent angler. But let them be writ by
whom they will, he that writ them had a brave soul, and must needs be possess with happy thoughts
at the time of their composure. I have wish'd all, but now I wish for neither. Great, high,
rich, wise, nor fair: poor I'll be rather. "John, who has been? For me this Flower
chair? ". Not around much, you know not to talk. And Lucia is not? She will follow suit. What
Sun? Where is Sun? They say it comes. Young rush at the door. Not come yet. It is restless.
It valsa. Sun comes at last, is, without having seen, to call room Lucia. "I! I am! ". So in
answer to Lucia a choked voice. Sun does not hear the compliments you say you do not see the
room that is bending its passage, does not know that the sculpture was no better model than
his head adorned with daisies, not notice that, without being high, all around her seem low.
Walk like someone throwing clearness, to John walks:

- Juan Lucia does not open up! Nevertheless, here I must part with you;
here in this now sad place, where I was so happy as first to meet you: but I shall long for
the ninth of May; for then I hope again to enjoy your beloved company, at the appointed time
and place. And now I wish for some somniferous potion, that might force me to sleep away the
intermitted time, which will pass away with me as tediously as it does with men in sorrow;
nevertheless I will make it as short as I can, by my hopes and wishes: and, my good Master,
I will not forget the doctrine which you told me Socrates taught his scholars, that they should
not think to be honoured so much for being philosophers, as to honour philosophy by their virtuous
lives. 

Esperanza's tone revealed spite. Through the eyes of Ramon spent a flash of joy legitimate and a
look of triumph to his friend Pepe. She showed like going from he knew that he would attend as
well. This is my purpose; and so, let everything that hath breath praise
the Lord: and let the blessing of St. Peter's Master be with mine.

Piscator And upon all that are lovers of virtue; and dare trust in his providence; and be quiet;
and go a Angling.

"Study to be quiet."

