But, without the material aid furnished by the diversion upon the Rhine, and the activity there
of Duke Bernard and the French, these important successes would have been unattainable.  Duke
Bernard, after the defeat of Nordlingen, reorganized his broken army at Wetterau; but, abandoned
by the confederates of the League of Heilbronn, which had been dissolved by the peace of Prague,
and receiving little support from the Swedes, he found himself unable to maintain an army,
or to perform any enterprise of importance.  The defeat at Nordlingen had terminated all his
hopes on the Duchy of Franconia, while the weakness of the Swedes, destroyed the chance of
retrieving his fortunes through their assistance.  Tired, too, of the constraint imposed upon
him by the imperious chancellor, he turned his attention to France, who could easily supply
him with money, the only aid which he required, and France readily acceded to his proposals.
Richelieu desired nothing so much as to diminish the influence of the Swedes in the German
war, and to obtain the direction of it for himself.  To secure this end, nothing appeared more
effectual than to detach from the Swedes their bravest general, to win him to the interests
of France, and to secure for the execution of its projects the services of his arm.  From a
prince like Bernard, who could not maintain himself without foreign support, France had nothing
to fear, since no success, however brilliant, could render him independent of that crown. Bernard
himself came into France, and in October, 1635, concluded a treaty at St.  Germaine en Laye,
not as a Swedish general, but in his own name, by which it was stipulated that he should receive
for himself a yearly pension of one million five hundred thousand livres, and four millions
for the support of his army, which he was to command under the orders of the French king. 
To inflame his zeal, and to accelerate the conquest of Alsace, France did not hesitate, by
a secret article, to promise him that province for his services; a promise which Richelieu
had little intention of performing, and which the duke also estimated at its real worth.  But
Bernard confided in his good fortune, and in his arms, and met artifice with dissimulation.
If he could once succeed in wresting Alsace from the enemy, he did not despair of being able,
in case of need, to maintain it also against a friend.  He now raised an army at the expense
of France, which he commanded nominally under the orders of that power, but in reality without
any limitation whatever, and without having wholly abandoned his engagements with Sweden. 
He began his operations upon the Rhine, where another French army, under Cardinal Lavalette,
had already, in 1635, commenced hostilities against the Emperor.

Against this force, the main body of the Imperialists, after the great victory of Nordlingen,
and the reduction of Swabia and Franconia had advanced under the command of Gallas, had driven
them as far as Metz, cleared the Rhine, and took from the Swedes the towns of Metz and Frankenthal,
of which they were in possession.  But frustrated by the vigorous resistance of the French,
in his main object, of taking up his winter quarters in France, he led back his exhausted troops
into Alsace and Swabia.  At the opening of the next campaign, he passed the Rhine at Breysach,
and prepared to carry the war into the interior of France.  He actually entered Burgundy, while
the Spaniards from the Netherlands made progress in Picardy; and John De Werth, a formidable
general of the League, and a celebrated partisan, pushed his march into Champagne, and spread
consternation even to the gates of Paris.  But an insignificant fortress in Franche Comte completely
checked the Imperialists, and they were obliged, a second time, to abandon their enterprise.

The activity of Duke Bernard had hitherto been impeded by his dependence on a French general,
more suited to the priestly robe, than to the baton of command; and although, in conjunction
with him, he conquered Alsace Saverne, he found himself unable, in the years 1636 and 1637,
to maintain his position upon the Rhine.  The ill success of the French arms in the Netherlands
had cheated the activity of operations in Alsace and Breisgau; but in 1638, the war in that
quarter took a more brilliant turn.  Relieved from his former restraint, and with unlimited
command of his troops, Duke Bernard, in the beginning of February, left his winter quarters
in the bishopric of Basle, and unexpectedly appeared upon the Rhine, where, at this rude season
of the year, an attack was little anticipated.  The forest towns of Laufenburg, Waldshut, and
Seckingen, were surprised, and Rhinefeldt besieged.  The Duke of Savelli, the Imperial general
who commanded in that quarter, hastened by forced marches to the relief of this important place,
succeeded in raising the siege, and compelled the Duke of Weimar, with great loss to retire.
But, contrary to all human expectation, he appeared on the third day after, (21st February,
1638,) before the Imperialists, in order of battle, and defeated them in a bloody engagement,
in which the four Imperial generals, Savelli, John De Werth, Enkeford, and Sperreuter, with
2000 men, were taken prisoners.  Two of these, De Werth and Enkeford, were afterwards sent
by Richelieu's orders into France, in order to flatter the vanity of the French by the sight
of such distinguished prisoners, and by the pomp of military trophies, to withdraw the attention
of the populace from the public distress.  The captured standards and colours were, with the
same view, carried in solemn procession to the church of Notre Dame, thrice exhibited before
the altar, and committed to sacred custody.

The taking of Rhinefeldt, Roeteln, and Fribourg, was the immediate consequence of the duke's
victory.  His army now increased by considerable recruits, and his projects expanded in proportion
as fortune favoured him.  The fortress of Breysach upon the Rhine was looked upon as holding
the command of that river, and as the key of Alsace.  No place in this quarter was of more
importance to the Emperor, and upon none had more care been bestowed.  To protect Breysach,
was the principal destination of the Italian army, under the Duke of Feria; the strength of
its works, and its natural defences, bade defiance to assault, while the Imperial generals
who commanded in that quarter had orders to retain it at any cost.  But the duke, trusting
to his good fortune, resolved to attempt the siege.  Its strength rendered it impregnable;
it could, therefore, only be starved into a surrender; and this was facilitated by the carelessness
of the commandant, who, expecting no attack, had been selling off his stores.  As under these
circumstances the town could not long hold out, it must be immediately relieved or victualled.
Accordingly, the Imperial General Goetz rapidly advanced at the head of 12,000 men, accompanied
by 3000 waggons loaded with provisions, which he intended to throw into the place.  But he
was attacked with such vigour by Duke Bernard at Witteweyer, that he lost his whole force,
except 3000 men, together with the entire transport.  A similar fate at Ochsenfeld, near Thann,
overtook the Duke of Lorraine, who, with 5000 or 6000 men, advanced to relieve the fortress.
After a third attempt of general Goetz for the relief of Breysach had proved ineffectual, the
fortress, reduced to the greatest extremity by famine, surrendered, after a blockade of four
months, on the 17th December 1638, to its equally persevering and humane conqueror.

The capture of Breysach opened a boundless field to the ambition of the Duke of Weimar, and
the romance of his hopes was fast approaching to reality.  Far from intending to surrender
his conquests to France, he destined Breysach for himself, and revealed this intention, by
exacting allegiance from the vanquished, in his own name, and not in that of any other power.
Intoxicated by his past success, and excited by the boldest hopes, he believed that he should
be able to maintain his conquests, even against France herself.  At a time when everything
depended upon bravery, when even personal strength was of importance, when troops and generals
were of more value than territories, it was natural for a hero like Bernard to place confidence
in his own powers, and, at the head of an excellent army, who under his command had proved
invincible, to believe himself capable of accomplishing the boldest and largest designs.  In
order to secure himself one friend among the crowd of enemies whom he was about to provoke,
he turned his eyes upon the Landgravine Amelia of Hesse, the widow of the lately deceased Landgrave
William, a princess whose talents were equal to her courage, and who, along with her hand,
would bestow valuable conquests, an extensive principality, and a well disciplined army.  By
the union of the conquests of Hesse, with his own upon the Rhine, and the junction of their
forces, a power of some importance, and perhaps a third party, might be formed in Germany,
which might decide the fate of the war.  But a premature death put a period to these extensive
schemes.

"Courage, Father Joseph, Breysach is ours!" whispered Richelieu in the ear of the Capuchin,
who had long held himself in readiness to be despatched into that quarter; so delighted was
he with this joyful intelligence.  Already in imagination he held Alsace, Breisgau, and all
the frontiers of Austria in that quarter, without regard to his promise to Duke Bernard.  But
the firm determination which the latter had unequivocally shown, to keep Breysach for himself,
greatly embarrassed the cardinal, and no efforts were spared to retain the victorious Bernard
in the interests of France.  He was invited to court, to witness the honours by which his triumph
was to be commemorated; but he perceived and shunned the seductive snare.  The cardinal even
went so far as to offer him the hand of his niece in marriage; but the proud German prince
declined the offer, and refused to sully the blood of Saxony by a misalliance.  He was now
considered as a dangerous enemy, and treated as such.  His subsidies were withdrawn; and the
Governor of Breysach and his principal officers were bribed, at least upon the event of the
duke's death, to take possession of his conquests, and to secure his troops.  These intrigues
were no secret to the duke, and the precautions he took in the conquered places, clearly bespoke
the distrust of France.  But this misunderstanding with the French court had the most prejudicial
influence upon his future operations.  The preparations he was obliged to make, in order to
secure his conquests against an attack on the side of France, compelled him to divide his military
strength, while the stoppage of his subsidies delayed his appearance in the field.  It had
been his intention to cross the Rhine, to support the Swedes, and to act against the Emperor
and Bavaria on the banks of the Danube.  He had already communicated his plan of operations
to Banner, who was about to carry the war into the Austrian territories, and had promised to
relieve him so, when a sudden death cut short his heroic career, in the 36th year of his age,
at Neuburgh upon the Rhine (in July, 1639).

He died of a pestilential disorder, which, in the course of two days, had carried off nearly
400 men in his camp.  The black spots which appeared upon his body, his own dying expressions,
and the advantages which France was likely to reap from his sudden decease, gave rise to a
suspicion that he had been removed by poison--a suspicion sufficiently refuted by the symptoms
of his disorder.  In him, the allies lost their greatest general after Gustavus Adolphus, France
a formidable competitor for Alsace, and the Emperor his most dangerous enemy.  Trained to the
duties of a soldier and a general in the school of Gustavus Adolphus, he successfully imitated
his eminent model, and wanted only a longer life to equal, if not to surpass it.  With the
bravery of the soldier, he united the calm and cool penetration of the general and the persevering
fortitude of the man, with the daring resolution of youth; with the wild ardour of the warrior,
the sober dignity of the prince, the moderation of the sage, and the conscientiousness of the
man of honour. Discouraged by no misfortune, he quickly rose again in full vigour from the
severest defeats; no obstacles could check his enterprise, no disappointments conquer his indomitable
perseverance.  His genius, perhaps, soared after unattainable objects; but the prudence of
such men, is to be measured by a different standard from that of ordinary people.  Capable
of accomplishing more, he might venture to form more daring plans.  Bernard affords, in modern
history, a splendid example of those days of chivalry, when personal greatness had its full
weight and influence, when individual bravery could conquer provinces, and the heroic exploits
of a German knight raised him even to the Imperial throne.

The best part of the duke's possessions were his army, which, together with Alsace, he bequeathed
to his brother William.  But to this army, both France and Sweden thought that they had well-grounded
claims; the latter, because it had been raised in name of that crown, and had done homage to
it; the former, because it had been supported by its subsidies.  The Electoral Prince of the
Palatinate also negociated for its services, and attempted, first by his agents, and latterly
in his own person, to win it over to his interests, with the view of employing it in the reconquest
of his territories.  Even the Emperor endeavoured to secure it, a circumstance the less surprising,
when we reflect that at this time the justice of the cause was comparatively unimportant, and
the extent of the recompense the main object to which the soldier looked; and when bravery,
like every other commodity, was disposed of to the highest bidder.  But France, richer and
more determined, outbade all competitors:  it bought over General Erlach, the commander of
Breysach, and the other officers, who soon placed that fortress, with the whole army, in their
hands.

The young Palatine, Prince Charles Louis, who had already made an unsuccessful campaign against
the Emperor, saw his hopes again deceived. Although intending to do France so ill a service,
as to compete with her for Bernard's army, he had the imprudence to travel through that kingdom.
The cardinal, who dreaded the justice of the Palatine's cause, was glad to seize any opportunity
to frustrate his views.  He accordingly caused him to be seized at Moulin, in violation of
the law of nations, and did not set him at liberty, until he learned that the army of the Duke
of Weimar had been secured.  France was now in possession of a numerous and well disciplined
army in Germany, and from this moment began to make open war upon the Emperor.

But it was no longer against Ferdinand II.  that its hostilities were to be conducted; for
that prince had died in February, 1637, in the 59th year of his age.  The war which his ambition
had kindled, however, survived him.  During a reign of eighteen years he had never once laid
aside the sword, nor tasted the blessings of peace as long as his hand swayed the imperial
sceptre.  Endowed with the qualities of a good sovereign, adorned with many of those virtues
which ensure the happiness of a people, and by nature gentle and humane, we see him, from erroneous
ideas of the monarch's duty, become at once the instrument and the victim of the evil passions
of others; his benevolent intentions frustrated, and the friend of justice converted into the
oppressor of mankind, the enemy of peace, and the scourge of his people.  Amiable in domestic
life, and respectable as a sovereign, but in his policy ill advised, while he gained the love
of his Roman Catholic subjects, he incurred the execration of the Protestants.  History exhibits
many and greater despots than Ferdinand II., yet he alone has had the unfortunate celebrity
of kindling a thirty years' war; but to produce its lamentable consequences, his ambition must
have been seconded by a kindred spirit of the age, a congenial state of previous circumstances,
and existing seeds of discord.  At a less turbulent period, the spark would have found no fuel;
and the peacefulness of the age would have choked the voice of individual ambition; but now
the flash fell upon a pile of accumulated combustibles, and Europe was in flames.

His son, Ferdinand III., who, a few months before his father's death, had been raised to the
dignity of King of the Romans, inherited his throne, his principles, and the war which he had
caused.  But Ferdinand III.  had been a closer witness of the sufferings of the people, and
the devastation of the country, and felt more keenly and ardently the necessity of peace. 
Less influenced by the Jesuits and the Spaniards, and more moderate towards the religious views
of others, he was more likely than his father to listen to the voice of reason.  He did so,
and ultimately restored to Europe the blessing of peace, but not till after a contest of eleven
years waged with sword and pen; not till after he had experienced the impossibility of resistance,
and necessity had laid upon him its stern laws.

Fortune favoured him at the commencement of his reign, and his arms were victorious against
the Swedes.  The latter, under the command of the victorious Banner, had, after their success
at Wittstock, taken up their winter quarters in Saxony; and the campaign of 1637 opened with
the siege of Leipzig.  The vigorous resistance of the garrison, and the approach of the Electoral
and Imperial armies, saved the town, and Banner, to prevent his communication with the Elbe
being cut off, was compelled to retreat into Torgau.  But the superior number of the Imperialists
drove him even from that quarter; and, surrounded by the enemy, hemmed in by rivers, and suffering
from famine, he had no course open to him but to attempt a highly dangerous retreat into Pomerania,
of which, the boldness and successful issue border upon romance.  The whole army crossed the
Oder, at a ford near Furstenberg; and the soldiers, wading up to the neck in water, dragged
the artillery across, when the horses refused to draw.  Banner had expected to be joined by
General Wrangel, on the farther side of the Oder in Pomerania; and, in conjunction with him,
to be able to make head against the enemy.  But Wrangel did not appear; and in his stead, he
found an Imperial army posted at Landsberg, with a view to cut off the retreat of the Swedes.
Banner now saw that he had fallen into a dangerous snare, from which escape appeared impossible.
In his rear lay an exhausted country, the Imperialists, and the Oder on his left; the Oder,
too, guarded by the Imperial General Bucheim, offered no retreat; in front, Landsberg, Custrin,
the Warta, and a hostile army; and on the right, Poland, in which, notwithstanding the truce,
little confidence could be placed.  In these circumstances, his position seemed hopeless, and
the Imperialists were already triumphing in the certainty of his fall.  Banner, with just indignation,
accused the French as the authors of this misfortune.  They had neglected to make, according
to their promise, a diversion upon the Rhine; and, by their inaction, allowed the Emperor to
combine his whole force upon the Swedes.  "When the day comes," cried the incensed General
to the French Commissioner, who followed the camp, "that the Swedes and Germans join their
arms against France, we shall cross the Rhine with less ceremony."  But reproaches were now
useless; what the emergency demanded was energy and resolution.  In the hope of drawing the
enemy by stratagem from the Oder, Banner pretended to march towards Poland, and despatched
the greater part of his baggage in this direction, with his own wife, and those of the other
officers.  The Imperialists immediately broke up their camp, and hurried towards the Polish
frontier to block up the route; Bucheim left his station, and the Oder was stripped of its
defenders.  On a sudden, and under cloud of night, Banner turned towards that river, and crossed
it about a mile above Custrin, with his troops, baggage, and artillery, without bridges or
vessels, as he had done before at Furstenberg.  He reached Pomerania without loss, and prepared
to share with Wrangel the defence of that province.

But the Imperialists, under the command of Gallas, entered that duchy at Ribses, and overran
it by their superior strength.  Usedom and Wolgast were taken by storm, Demmin capitulated,
and the Swedes were driven far into Lower Pomerania.  It was, too, more important for them
at this moment than ever, to maintain a footing in that country, for Bogislaus XIV.  had died
that year, and Sweden must prepare to establish its title to Pomerania.  To prevent the Elector
of Brandenburg from making good the title to that duchy, which the treaty of Prague had given
him, Sweden exerted her utmost energies, and supported its generals to the extent of her ability,
both with troops and money.  In other quarters of the kingdom, the affairs of the Swedes began
to wear a more favourable aspect, and to recover from the humiliation into which they had been
thrown by the inaction of France, and the desertion of their allies. For, after their hasty
retreat into Pomerania, they had lost one place after another in Upper Saxony; the princes
of Mecklenburg, closely pressed by the troops of the Emperor, began to lean to the side of
Austria, and even George, Duke of Lunenburg, declared against them. Ehrenbreitstein was starved
into a surrender by the Bavarian General de Werth, and the Austrians possessed themselves of
all the works which had been thrown up on the Rhine.  France had been the sufferer in the contest
with Spain; and the event had by no means justified the pompous expectations which had accompanied
the opening of the campaign.  Every place which the Swedes had held in the interior of Germany
was lost; and only the principal towns in Pomerania still remained in their hands. But a single
campaign raised them from this state of humiliation; and the vigorous diversion, which the
victorious Bernard had effected upon the Rhine, gave quite a new turn to affairs.

The misunderstandings between France and Sweden were now at last adjusted, and the old treaty
between these powers confirmed at Hamburg, with fresh advantages for Sweden.  In Hesse, the
politic Landgravine Amelia had, with the approbation of the Estates, assumed the government
after the death of her husband, and resolutely maintained her rights against the Emperor and
the House of Darmstadt.  Already zealously attached to the Swedish Protestant party, on religious
grounds, she only awaited a favourable opportunity openly to declare herself.  By artful delays,
and by prolonging the negociations with the Emperor, she had succeeded in keeping him inactive,
till she had concluded a secret compact with France, and the victories of Duke Bernard had
given a favourable turn to the affairs of the Protestants.  She now at once threw off the mask,
and renewed her former alliance with the Swedish crown.  The Electoral Prince of the Palatinate
was also stimulated, by the success of Bernard, to try his fortune against the common enemy.
Raising troops in Holland with English money, he formed a magazine at Meppen, and joined the
Swedes in Westphalia.  His magazine was, however, quickly lost; his army defeated near Flotha,
by Count Hatzfeld; but his attempt served to occupy for some time the attention of the enemy,
and thereby facilitated the operations of the Swedes in other quarters. Other friends began
to appear, as fortune declared in their favour, and the circumstance, that the States of Lower
Saxony embraced a neutrality, was of itself no inconsiderable advantage.

Under these advantages, and reinforced by 14,000 fresh troops from Sweden and Livonia.  Banner
opened, with the most favourable prospects, the campaign of 1638.  The Imperialists who were
in possession of Upper Pomerania and Mecklenburg, either abandoned their positions, or deserted
in crowds to the Swedes, to avoid the horrors of famine, the most formidable enemy in this
exhausted country.  The whole country betwixt the Elbe and the Oder was so desolated by the
past marchings and quarterings of the troops, that, in order to support his army on its march
into Saxony and Bohemia, Banner was obliged to take a circuitous route from Lower Pomerania
into Lower Saxony, and then into the Electorate of Saxony through the territory of Halberstadt.
The impatience of the Lower Saxon States to get rid of such troublesome guests, procured him
so plentiful a supply of provisions, that he was provided with bread in Magdeburg itself, where
famine had even overcome the natural antipathy of men to human flesh.  His approach spread
consternation among the Saxons; but his views were directed not against this exhausted country,
but against the hereditary dominions of the Emperor.  The victories of Bernard encouraged him,
while the prosperity of the Austrian provinces excited his hopes of booty.  After defeating
the Imperial General Salis, at Elsterberg, totally routing the Saxon army at Chemnitz, and
taking Pirna, he penetrated with irresistible impetuosity into Bohemia, crossed the Elbe, threatened
Prague, took Brandeis and Leutmeritz, defeated General Hofkirchen with ten regiments, and spread
terror and devastation through that defenceless kingdom. Booty was his sole object, and whatever
he could not carry off he destroyed.  In order to remove more of the corn, the ears were cut
from the stalks, and the latter burnt.  Above a thousand castles, hamlets, and villages were
laid in ashes; sometimes more than a hundred were seen burning in one night.  From Bohemia
he crossed into Silesia, and it was his intention to carry his ravages even into Moravia and
Austria.  But to prevent this, Count Hatzfeld was summoned from Westphalia, and Piccolomini
from the Netherlands, to hasten with all speed to this quarter.  The Archduke Leopold, brother
to the Emperor, assumed the command, in order to repair the errors of his predecessor Gallas,
and to raise the army from the low ebb to which it had fallen.

The result justified the change, and the campaign of 1640 appeared to take a most unfortunate
turn for the Swedes.  They were successively driven out of all their posts in Bohemia, and
anxious only to secure their plunder, they precipitately crossed the heights of Meissen.  But
being followed into Saxony by the pursuing enemy, and defeated at Plauen, they were obliged
to take refuge in Thuringia.  Made masters of the field in a single summer, they were as rapidly
dispossessed; but only to acquire it a second time, and to hurry from one extreme to another.
The army of Banner, weakened and on the brink of destruction in its camp at Erfurt, suddenly
recovered itself.  The Duke of Lunenburg abandoned the treaty of Prague, and joined Banner
with the very troops which, the year before, had fought against him.  Hesse Cassel sent reinforcements,
and the Duke of Longueville came to his support with the army of the late Duke Bernard.  Once
more numerically superior to the Imperialists, Banner offered them battle near Saalfeld; but
their leader, Piccolomini, prudently declined an engagement, having chosen too strong a position
to be forced.  When the Bavarians at length separated from the Imperialists, and marched towards
Franconia, Banner attempted an attack upon this divided corps, but the attempt was frustrated
by the skill of the Bavarian General Von Mercy, and the near approach of the main body of the
Imperialists.  Both armies now moved into the exhausted territory of Hesse, where they formed
intrenched camps near each other, till at last famine and the severity of the winter compelled
them both to retire.  Piccolomini chose the fertile banks of the Weser for his winter quarters;
but being outflanked by Banner, he was obliged to give way to the Swedes, and to impose on
the Franconian sees the burden of maintaining his army.

At this period, a diet was held in Ratisbon, where the complaints of the States were to be
heard, measures taken for securing the repose of the Empire, and the question of peace or war
finally settled.  The presence of the Emperor, the majority of the Roman Catholic voices in
the Electoral College, the great number of bishops, and the withdrawal of several of the Protestant
votes, gave the Emperor a complete command of the deliberations of the assembly, and rendered
this diet any thing but a fair representative of the opinions of the German Empire.  The Protestants,
with reason, considered it as a mere combination of Austria and its creatures against their
party; and it seemed to them a laudable effort to interrupt its deliberations, and to dissolve
the diet itself.

Banner undertook this bold enterprise.  His military reputation had suffered by his last retreat
from Bohemia, and it stood in need of some great exploit to restore its former lustre.  Without
communicating his designs to any one, in the depth of the winter of 1641, as soon as the roads
and rivers were frozen, he broke up from his quarters in Lunenburg.  Accompanied by Marshal
Guebriant, who commanded the armies of France and Weimar, he took the route towards the Danube,
through Thuringia and Vogtland, and appeared before Ratisbon, ere the Diet could be apprised
of his approach.  The consternation of the assembly was indescribable; and, in the first alarm,
the deputies prepared for flight.  The Emperor alone declared that he would not leave the town,
and encouraged the rest by his example.  Unfortunately for the Swedes, a thaw came on, which
broke up the ice upon the Danube, so that it was no longer passable on foot, while no boats
could cross it, on account of the quantities of ice which were swept down by the current. 
In order to perform something, and to humble the pride of the Emperor, Banner discourteously
fired 500 cannon shots into the town, which, however, did little mischief.  Baffled in his
designs, he resolved to penetrate farther into Bavaria, and the defenceless province of Moravia,
where a rich booty and comfortable quarters awaited his troops.  Guebriant, however, began
to fear that the purpose of the Swedes was to draw the army of Bernard away from the Rhine,
and to cut off its communication with France, till it should be either entirely won over, or
incapacitated from acting independently.  He therefore separated from Banner to return to the
Maine; and the latter was exposed to the whole force of the Imperialists, which had been secretly
drawn together between Ratisbon and Ingoldstadt, and was on its march against him.  It was
now time to think of a rapid retreat, which, having to be effected in the face of an army superior
in cavalry, and betwixt woods and rivers, through a country entirely hostile, appeared almost
impracticable.  He hastily retired towards the Forest, intending to penetrate through Bohemia
into Saxony; but he was obliged to sacrifice three regiments at Neuburg.  These with a truly
Spartan courage, defended themselves for four days behind an old wall, and gained time for
Banner to escape.  He retreated by Egra to Annaberg; Piccolomini took a shorter route in pursuit,
by Schlakenwald; and Banner succeeded, only by a single half hour, in clearing the Pass of
Prisnitz, and saving his whole army from the Imperialists.  At Zwickau he was again joined
by Guebriant; and both generals directed their march towards Halberstadt, after in vain attempting
to defend the Saal, and to prevent the passage of the Imperialists.

Banner, at length, terminated his career at Halberstadt, in May 1641, a victim to vexation
and disappointment.  He sustained with great renown, though with varying success, the reputation
of the Swedish arms in Germany, and by a train of victories showed himself worthy of his great
master in the art of war.  He was fertile in expedients, which he planned with secrecy, and
executed with boldness; cautious in the midst of dangers, greater in adversity than in prosperity,
and never more formidable than when upon the brink of destruction.  But the virtues of the
hero were united with all the railings and vices which a military life creates, or at least
fosters.  As imperious in private life as he was at the head of his army, rude as his profession,
and proud as a conqueror; he oppressed the German princes no less by his haughtiness, than
their country by his contributions.  He consoled himself for the toils of war in voluptuousness
and the pleasures of the table, in which he indulged to excess, and was thus brought to an
early grave.  But though as much addicted to pleasure as Alexander or Mahomet the Second, he
hurried from the arms of luxury into the hardest fatigues, and placed himself in all his vigour
at the head of his army, at the very moment his soldiers were murmuring at his luxurious excesses.
Nearly 80,000 men fell in the numerous battles which he fought, and about 600 hostile standards
and colours, which he sent to Stockholm, were the trophies of his victories.  The want of this
great general was soon severely felt by the Swedes, who feared, with justice, that the loss
would not readily be replaced.  The spirit of rebellion and insubordination, which had been
overawed by the imperious demeanour of this dreaded commander, awoke upon his death.  The officers,
with an alarming unanimity, demanded payment of their arrears; and none of the four generals
who shared the command, possessed influence enough to satisfy these demands, or to silence
the malcontents.  All discipline was at an end, increasing want, and the imperial citations
were daily diminishing the number of the army; the troops of France and Weimar showed little
zeal; those of Lunenburg forsook the Swedish colours; the Princes also of the House of Brunswick,
after the death of Duke George, had formed a separate treaty with the Emperor; and at last
even those of Hesse quitted them, to seek better quarters in Westphalia.  The enemy profited
by these calamitous divisions; and although defeated with loss in two pitched battles, succeeded
in making considerable progress in Lower Saxony.

At length appeared the new Swedish generalissimo, with fresh troops and money.  This was Bernard
Torstensohn, a pupil of Gustavus Adolphus, and his most successful imitator, who had been his
page during the Polish war.  Though a martyr to the gout, and confined to a litter, he surpassed
all his opponents in activity; and his enterprises had wings, while his body was held by the
most frightful of fetters.  Under him, the scene of war was changed, and new maxims adopted,
which necessity dictated, and the issue justified.  All the countries in which the contest
had hitherto raged were exhausted; while the House of Austria, safe in its more distant territories,
felt not the miseries of the war under which the rest of Germany groaned.  Torstensohn first
furnished them with this bitter experience, glutted his Swedes on the fertile produce of Austria,
and carried the torch of war to the very footsteps of the imperial throne.

In Silesia, the enemy had gained considerable advantages over the Swedish general Stalhantsch,
and driven him as far as Neumark. Torstensohn, who had joined the main body of the Swedes in
Lunenburg, summoned him to unite with his force, and in the year 1642 hastily marched into
Silesia through Brandenburg, which, under its great Elector, had begun to maintain an armed
neutrality.  Glogau was carried, sword in hand, without a breach, or formal approaches; the
Duke Francis Albert of Lauenburg defeated and killed at Schweidnitz; and Schweidnitz itself
with almost all the towns on that side of the Oder, taken.  He now penetrated with irresistible
violence into the interior of Moravia, where no enemy of Austria had hitherto appeared, took
Olmutz, and threw Vienna itself into consternation.

But, in the mean time, Piccolomini and the Archduke Leopold had collected a superior force,
which speedily drove the Swedish conquerors from Moravia, and after a fruitless attempt upon
Brieg, from Silesia. Reinforced by Wrangel, the Swedes again attempted to make head against
the enemy, and relieved Grossglogau; but could neither bring the Imperialists to an engagement,
nor carry into effect their own views upon Bohemia.  Overrunning Lusatia, they took Zittau,
in presence of the enemy, and after a short stay in that country, directed their march towards
the Elbe, which they passed at Torgau.  Torstensohn now threatened Leipzig with a siege, and
hoped to raise a large supply of provisions and contributions from that prosperous town, which
for ten years had been unvisited with the scourge of war.

