Perhaps 'twill be objected here, that the Book of Psalms would hereby be rendred very imperfect,
and some weak Persons might imagine this Attempt to fall under the Censure of Rev. 22. 18,
19. that is, of taking away from, or adding to the Words of the Book {248} of God. But 'tis
not difficult to reply that though the whole Book: of Psalms was given to be read by us as
God's Word for our Use and Instruction, yet it will never follow from thence that the whole
was written as a Psalter for the Christian Church to use in Singing. It is not what i would choose,
perhaps, but everything else is repressed Century to me, "thinking completely of life-long misfortune,
as i always called it, and my closed longings for hospital." perhaps
if you took something else might become up.

"But i shook my head at this." i have waited so long already, Uncle
Keith; idleness shortly becomes a habit.

"" then if you have made up your mind, it is ironical to try and
alter it, "returned Uncle Keith, in the slightly useless dr, and he
actually took up a volume he was say in the way that demo he had dismissed
a topic.

I was never more astonished in my life; never had D Keith too dolefully
baffled me.


Give me leave here to mention several Passages which were hardly made for Christian Lips to
assume without some Alteration: Psal. 68. 13, 14, 15, 16. Tho ye have lain among the Pots,
yet shall ye be as the Wings of a Dove cover'd with Silver, and her Feathers with yellow Gold:
When the Almighty scatter'd Kings in it, it was white as Snow in Salmon. The Hill of God is
as the Hill of Bashan, &c. Why leap ye, ye Hills, &c; ver. 25. Because of thy Temple at Jerusalem
Kings shall bring Presents unto thee. Rebuke the Company of Spearmen, the Multitude of Bulls,
with the Calves of the People, till every one submit himself with Pieces of Silver. Psal. 71.
84. 3, 6. Psal: 108. 2, 7, 8, 9. Awake Psaltery and Harp, I my self will awake early. 69, 8
& 109. are so full of Cursings {250} that they hardly become the Tongue of a Follower of the
blessed Jesus, who dying pray'd for his own Enemies; Father forgive them, for they know not
what they do. Psal. 'Twould be endless to give an Account of all the Paragraphs of ancient
Songs, which can scarce ever be accommodated to Gospel-Worship.

The Patrons of another Opinion will say we must sing the Words of David, and apply them in
our Meditation to the things of the New Testament: But can we believe this to be the best Method
of worshiping God, to sing one thing and mean another? besides that the very literal Sense
of many of many of these Expressions is exceeding deep and difficult, and not one in twenty
of a religious Assembly can possibly understand them at this Distance from the Jewish Days;
therefore to keep close to the Language of David, we must break the Commands of God by David,
who requires that we sing his Praises with Understanding, Psal. 47.7. And I am {251} perswaded,
that St. Paul if he lived in our Age and Nation, would no more advise us to sing unintelligible
Sentences in London, than himself would sing in an unknown Tongue at Corinth, 1 Cor. 14. 15,
19. After all, if the literal Sense were known, yet the Application of many Verses of David
to our State and Circumstances was never design'd, and is utterly impossible; and even where
it is possible, yet 'tis so exceeding difficult that very few Persons in an Assembly are capable
of it; and when they attempt it, if their Thoughts should be enquir'd one by one, you would
find very various, wretched, and contradictory Meanings put upon the Words of the Hebrew Psalmist,
and all for want of an Evangelical Translation of him.