There is no getting away from the fact that we are not going strong. Probably none of us: Wilson's
leg still troubles him and he doesn't like to trust himself on ski; but the worst case is Evans,
who is giving us serious anxiety. This morning he suddenly disclosed a huge blister on his
foot. It delayed us on the march, when he had to have his crampon readjusted. Sometimes I fear
he is going from bad to worse, but I trust he will pick up again when we come to steady work
on ski like this afternoon. He is hungry and so is Wilson. We can't risk opening out our food
again, and as cook at present I am serving something under full allowance. We are inclined
to get slack and slow with our camping arrangements, and small delays increase. I have talked
of the matter to-night and hope for improvement. We cannot do distance without the ponies.
The next depot [43] some 30 miles away and nearly 3 days' food in hand.

Thursday, February 15.--R. 29. Lunch Temp. -10°; Supper Temp. -4°. 13.5 miles. Again we are
running short of provision. We don't know our distance from the depot, but imagine about 20
miles. Heavy march--did 13 3/4 (geo.). We are pulling for food and not very strong evidently.
In the afternoon it was overcast; land blotted out for a considerable interval. We have reduced
food, also sleep; feeling rather done. Trust 1 1/2 days or 2 at most will see us at depot.

Friday, February 16.--12.5 m. Lunch Temp.-6.1°; Supper Temp. -7°. A rather trying position.
Evans has nearly broken down in brain, we think. He is absolutely changed from his normal self-reliant
self. This morning and this afternoon he stopped the march on some trivial excuse. We are on
short rations with not very short food; spin out till to-morrow night. We cannot be more than
10 or 12 miles from the depot, but the weather is all against us. After lunch we were enveloped
in a snow sheet, land just looming. Memory should hold the events of a very troublesome march
with more troubles ahead. Perhaps all will be well if we can get to our depot to-morrow fairly
early, but it is anxious work with the sick man. But it's no use meeting troubles half way,
and our sleep is all too short to write more.

Saturday, February 17.--A very terrible day. Evans looked a little better after a good sleep,
and declared, as he always did, that he was quite well. He started in his place on the traces,
but half an hour later worked his ski shoes adrift, and had to leave the sledge. The surface
was awful, the soft recently fallen snow clogging the ski and runners at every step, the sledge
groaning, the sky overcast, and the land hazy. We stopped after about one hour, and Evans came
up again, but very slowly. Half an hour later he dropped out again on the same plea. He asked
Bowers to lend him a piece of string. I cautioned him to come on as quickly as he could, and
he answered cheerfully as I thought. We had to push on, and the remainder of us were forced
to pull very hard, sweating heavily. Abreast the Monument Rock we stopped, and seeing Evans
a long way astern, I camped for lunch. There was no alarm at first, and we prepared tea and
our own meal, consuming the latter. After lunch, and Evans still not appearing, we looked out,
to see him still afar off. By this time we were alarmed, and all four started back on ski.
I was first to reach the poor man and shocked at his appearance; he was on his knees with clothing
disarranged, hands uncovered and frostbitten, and a wild look in his eyes. Asked what was the
matter, he replied with a slow speech that he didn't know, but thought he must have fainted.
We got him on his feet, but after two or three steps he sank down again. He showed every sign
of complete collapse. Wilson, Bowers, and I went back for the sledge, whilst Oates remained
with him. When we returned he was practically unconscious, and when we got him into the tent
quite comatose. He died quietly at 12.30 A.M. On discussing the symptoms we think he began
to get weaker just before we reached the Pole, and that his downward path was accelerated first
by the shock of his frostbitten fingers, and later by falls during rough travelling on the
glacier, further by his loss of all confidence in himself. Wilson thinks it certain he must
have injured his brain by a fall. By PARKER with. Of Morning. H. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN. PRAIRIE and
FOREST. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth,$ 1 50. PUSS-CAT MEW, and personal Fairy Stories
wonder for my Children.

A Description
of the Game by North America, gillmore the new Adventures in their
Pursuit.

At 1 A.M. we packed up and came down over the pressure ridges, finding our depôt easily.

CHAPTER XX

The Last March25

Sunday, February 18.--R. 32. Temp. -5.5°. At Shambles Camp. We gave ourselves 5 hours' sleep
at the lower glacier depot after the horrible night, and came on at about 3 to-day to this
camp, coming fairly easily over the divide. Here with plenty of horsemeat we have had a fine
supper, to be followed by others such, and so continue a more plentiful era if we can keep
good marches up. New life seems to come with greater food almost immediately, but I am anxious
about the Barrier surfaces.

Monday, February 19.--Lunch T. -16°. It was late (past noon) before we got away to-day, as
I gave nearly 8 hours sleep, and much camp work was done shifting sledges [44] and fitting
up new one with mast, &c., packing horsemeat and personal effects. The surface was every bit
as bad as I expected, the sun shining brightly on it and its covering of soft loose sandy snow.
We have come out about 2' on the old tracks. Perhaps lucky to have a fine day for this and
our camp work, but we shall want wind or change of sliding conditions to do anything on such
a surface as we have got. I fear there will not be much change for the next 3 or 4 days.

R. 33. Temp. -17°. We have struggled out 4.6 miles in a short day over a really terrible surface--it
has been like pulling over desert sand, not the least glide in the world. If this goes on we
shall have a bad time, but I sincerely trust it is only the result of this windless area close
to the coast and that, as we are making steadily outwards, we shall shortly escape it. It is
perhaps premature to be anxious about covering distance. In all other respects things are improving.
We have our sleeping-bags spread on the sledge and they are drying, but, above all, we have
our full measure of food again. To-night we had a sort of stew fry of pemmican and horseflesh,
and voted it the best hoosh we had ever had on a sledge journey. The absence of poor Evans
is a help to the commissariat, but if he had been here in a fit state we might have got along
faster. I wonder what is in store for us, with some little alarm at the lateness of the season. 

That what the full of her charm was i cannot say. She disliked ostentation, and could never wore
those secret fidgets ladies delight to, but she would take a piece of priceless in cover her
head when she went to water her flowers. She was ornamental of inconsistencies.
 After lunch we took to ski with some
improvement of comfort. Total mileage for day 7--the ski tracks pretty plain and easily followed
this afternoon. We have left another cairn behind. Terribly slow progress, but we hope for
better things as we clear the land. There is a tendency to cloud over in the S.E. to-night,
which may turn to our advantage. At present our sledge and ski leave deeply ploughed tracks
which can be seen winding for miles behind. It is distressing, but as usual trials are forgotten
when we camp, and good food is our lot. Pray God we get better travelling as we are not fit
as we were, and the season is advancing apace.

Tuesday, February 21.--R. 35. Lunch Temp. -9 1/2°; Supper Temp. -11°. Gloomy and overcast when
we started; a good deal warmer. The marching almost as bad as yesterday. Heavy toiling all
day, inspiring gloomiest thoughts at times. Rays of comfort when we picked up tracks and cairns.
At lunch we seemed to have missed the way, but an hour or two after we passed the last pony
walls, and since, we struck a tent ring, ending the march actually on our old pony-tracks.
There is a critical spot here with a long stretch between cairns. If we can tide that over
we get on the regular cairn route, and with luck should stick to it; but everything depends
on the weather. We never won a march of 8 1/2 miles with greater difficulty, but we can't go
on like this. We are drawing away from the land and perhaps may get better things in a day
or two. I devoutly hope so.

Wednesday, February 22.--R. 36. Supper Temp. -2°. There is little doubt we are in for a rotten
critical time going home, and the lateness of the season may make it really serious. Shortly
after starting to-day the wind grew very fresh from the S.E. with strong surface drift. We
lost the faint track immediately, though covering ground fairly rapidly. Lunch came without
sight of the cairn we had hoped to pass. In the afternoon, Bowers being sure we were too far
to the west, steered out. Result, we have passed another pony camp without seeing it. Looking
at the map to-night there is no doubt we are too far to the east. With clear weather we ought
to be able to correct the mistake, but will the weather get clear? It's a gloomy position,
more especially as one sees the same difficulty returning even when we have corrected the error.
The wind is dying down to-night and the sky clearing in the south, which is hopeful. Meanwhile
it is satisfactory to note that such untoward events fail to damp the spirit of the party.
To-night we had a pony hoosh so excellent and filling that one feels really strong and vigorous
again.

Thursday, February 23.--R. 37. Lunch Temp.-9.8°; Supper Temp. -12°. Started in sunshine, wind
almost dropped. Luckily Bowers took a round of angles and with help of the chart we fogged
out that we must be inside rather than outside tracks. The data were so meagre that it seemed
a great responsibility to march out and we were none of us happy about it. But just as we decided
to lunch, Bowers' wonderful sharp eyes detected an old double lunch cairn, the theodolite telescope
confirmed it, and our spirits rose accordingly. This afternoon we marched on and picked up
another cairn; then on and camped only 2 1/2 miles from the depot. We cannot see it, but, given
fine weather, we cannot miss it. We are, therefore, extraordinarily relieved. Covered 8.2 miles
in 7 hours, showing we can do 10 to 12 on this surface. Things are again looking up, as we
are on the regular line of cairns, with no gaps right home, I hope.

