"Nor did you know that I had this little ring upon my finger. Is it fit that you, or that any
man should turn round upon a lady and say to her that your word is to be broken, and that she
is to be exposed before all her friends, because you have taken a fancy to dislike her ring
or her brooch? I say, Lord Fawn, it was no business of yours, even after you were engaged to
me. What jewels I might have, or not have, was no concern of yours till after I had become
your wife. Go and ask all the world if it is not so? You say that my cousin affronts you because
he takes my part,--like a brother. Ask any one else. Ask any lady you may know. Let us name
some one to decide between us which of us has been wrong. Lady Glencora Palliser is a friend
of yours, and her husband is in the Government. Shall we name her? It is true, indeed, that
her uncle, the Duke of Omnium, the grandest and greatest of English noblemen, is specially
interested on my behalf." This was very fine in Lizzie. The Duke of Omnium she had never seen;
but his name had been mentioned to her by Lady Glencora, and she was quick to use it.

"I can admit of no reference to any one," said Lord Fawn.

"And I then,--what am I to do? I am to be thrown over simply because your lordship--chooses
to throw me over? Your lordship will admit no reference to any one! Your lordship makes inquiries
as long as an attorney tells you stories against me, but drops them at once when the attorney
is made to understand that he is wrong. Tell me this, sir. Can you justify yourself,--in your
own heart?"

Unfortunately for Lord Fawn, he was not sure that he could justify himself. The diamonds were
gone, and the action was laid aside, and the general opinion which had prevailed a month or
two since, that Lizzie had been disreputably concerned in stealing her own necklace, seemed
to have been laid aside. Lady Glencora and the duke went for almost as much with Lord Fawn
as they did with Lizzie. No doubt the misbehaviour down among the rocks was left to him; but
he had that only on the evidence of Andy Gowran,--and even Andy Gowran's evidence he had declined
to receive otherwise than second-hand. Lizzie, too, was prepared with an answer to this charge,--an
answer which she had already made more than once, though the charge was not positively brought
against her, and which consisted in an assertion that Frank Greystock was her brother rather
than her cousin. Such brotherhood was not altogether satisfactory to Lord Fawn, when he came
once more to regard Lizzie Eustace as his possible future wife; but still the assertion was
an answer, and one that he could not altogether reject.

It certainly was the case that he had again begun to think what would be the result of a marriage
with Lady Eustace. He must sever himself altogether from Mrs. Hittaway, and must relax the
closeness of his relations with Fawn Court. He would have a wife respecting whom he himself
had spread evil tidings, and the man whom he most hated in the world would be his wife's favourite
cousin, or, so to say,--brother. And, moreover, at his own country house at Portray, as in
such case it would be, his own bailiff or steward would be the man who had seen--what he had
seen. These were great objections; but how was he to avoid marrying her? He was engaged to
her. How, at any rate, was he to escape from the renewal of his engagement at this moment?
He had more than once positively stated that he was deterred from marrying her only by her
possession of the diamonds. The diamonds were now gone.

Lizzie was still standing, waiting for an answer to her question,--Can you justify yourself
in your own heart? Having paused for some seconds, she repeated her question in a stronger
and more personal form. "Had I been your sister, Lord Fawn, and had another man behaved to
me as you have now done, would you say that he had behaved well, and that she had no ground
for complaint? Can you bring yourself to answer that question honestly?"

"I hope I shall answer no question dishonestly."

"Answer it then. No; you cannot answer it, because you would condemn yourself. Now, Lord Fawn,
what do you mean to do?"

"I had thought, Lady Eustace, that any regard which you might ever have entertained for me--"

"Well;--what had you thought of my regard?"

"That it had been dissipated."

"Have I told you so? Has any one come to you from me with such a message?"

"Have you not received attentions from any one else?"

"Attentions,--what attentions? I have received plenty of attentions,--most flattering attentions.
I was honoured even this morning by a most gratifying attention on the part of his grace the
Duke of Omnium."

"I did not mean that."

"What do you mean, then? I am not going to marry the Duke of Omnium because of his attention,--nor
any one else. If you mean, sir, after the other inquiries you have done me the honour to make,
to throw it in my face now, that I have--have in any way rendered myself unworthy of the position
of your wife because people have been civil and kind to me in my sorrow, you are a greater
dastard than I took you to be. Tell me at once, sir, whom you mean."

It is hardly too much to say that the man quailed before her. And it certainly is not too much
to say that, had Lizzie Eustace been trained as an actress, she would have become a favourite
with the town. When there came to her any fair scope for acting, she was perfect. In the ordinary
scenes of ordinary life, such as befell her during her visit to Fawn Court, she could not acquit
herself well. There was no reality about her, and the want of it was strangely plain to most
unobservant eyes. But give her a part to play that required exaggerated, strong action, and
she hardly ever failed. Even in that terrible moment, when, on her return from the theatre,
she thought that the police had discovered her secret about the diamonds, though she nearly
sank through fear, she still carried on her acting in the presence of Lucinda Roanoke; and
when she had found herself constrained to tell the truth to Lord George Carruthers, the power
to personify a poor, weak, injured creature was not wanting to her. The reader will not think
that her position in society at the present moment was very well established,--will feel, probably,
that she must still have known herself to be on the brink of social ruin. But she had now fully
worked herself up to the necessities of the occasion, and was as able to play her part as well
as any actress that ever walked the boards. She had called him a dastard, and now stood looking
him in the face. "I didn't mean anybody in particular," said Lord Fawn.

"Then what right can you have to ask me whether I have received attentions? Had it not been
for the affectionate attention of my cousin, Mr. Greystock, I should have died beneath the
load of sorrow you have heaped upon me!" This she said quite boldly, and yet the man she named
was he of whom Andy Gowran told his horrid story, and whose love-making to Lizzie had, in Mrs.
Hittaway's opinion, been sufficient to atone for any falling off of strength in the matter
of the diamonds.

"A rumour reached me," said Lord Fawn, plucking up his courage, "that you were engaged to marry
your cousin."

"Then rumour lied, my lord. And he or she who repeated the rumour to you, lied also. And any
he or she who repeats it again will go on with the lie." Lord Fawn's brow became very black.
The word "lie" itself was offensive to him,--offensive, even though it might not be applied
directly to himself; but he still quailed, and was unable to express his indignation,--as he
had done to poor Lucy Morris, his mother's governess. "And now let me ask, Lord Fawn, on what
ground you and I stand together. When my friend, Lady Glencora, asked me, only this morning,
whether my engagement with you was still an existing fact, and brought me the kindest possible
message on the same subject from her uncle, the duke, I hardly knew what answer to make her."
It was not surprising that Lizzie in her difficulties should use her new friend, but perhaps
she over-did the friendship a little. "I told her that we were engaged, but that your lordship's
conduct to me had been so strange, that I hardly knew how to speak of you among my friends."

"I thought I explained myself to your cousin."

"My cousin certainly did not understand your explanation."

Lord Fawn was certain that Greystock had understood it well; and Greystock had in return insulted
him,--because the engagement was broken off. But it is impossible to argue on facts with a
woman who has been ill-used. "After all that has passed, perhaps we had better part," said
Lord Fawn.

"Then I shall put the matter into the hands of the Duke of Omnium," said Lizzie boldly. "I
will not have my whole life ruined, my good name blasted--"

"I have not said a word to injure your good name."

"On what plea, then, have you dared to take upon yourself to put an end to an engagement which
was made at your own pressing request,--which was, of course, made at your own request? On
what ground do you justify such conduct? You are a Liberal, Lord Fawn; and everybody regards
the Duke of Omnium as the head of the Liberal nobility in England. He is my friend, and I shall
put the matter into his hands." It was, probably, from her cousin Frank that Lizzie had learned
that Lord Fawn was more afraid of the leaders of his own party than of any other tribunal upon
earth,--or perhaps elsewhere.

Lord Fawn felt the absurdity of the threat, and yet it had effect upon him. He knew that the
Duke of Omnium was a worn-out old debauchee, with one foot in the grave, who was looked after
by two or three women who were only anxious that he should not disgrace himself by some absurdity
before he died. Nevertheless, the Duke of Omnium, or the duke's name, was a power in the nation.
Lady Glencora was certainly very powerful, and Lady Glencora's husband was Chancellor of the
Exchequer. He did not suppose that the duke cared in the least whether Lizzie Eustace was or
was not married;--but Lady Glencora had certainly interested herself about Lizzie, and might
make London almost too hot to hold him if she chose to go about everywhere saying that he ought
to marry the lady. And in addition to all this prospective grief, there was the trouble of
the present moment. He was in Lizzie's own room,--fool that he had been to come there,--and
he must get out as best he could. "Lady Eustace," he said, "I am most anxious not to behave
badly in this matter."

"But you are behaving badly,--very badly."

"With your leave I will tell you what I would suggest. I will submit to you in writing my opinion
on this matter;"--Lord Fawn had been all his life submitting his opinion in writing, and thought
that he was rather a good hand at the work. "I will then endeavour to explain to you the reasons
which make me think that it will be better for us both that our engagement should be at an
end. If, after reading it, you shall disagree with me, and still insist on the right which
I gave you when I asked you to become my wife,--I will then perform the promise which I certainly
made." To this most foolish proposal on his part, Lizzie, of course, acquiesced. She acquiesced,
and bade him farewell with her sweetest smile. It was now manifest to her that she could have
her husband,--or her revenge, just as she might prefer.

This had been a day of triumph to her, and she was talking of it in the evening triumphantly
to Mrs. Carbuncle, when she was told that a policeman wanted to see her down-stairs! Oh, those
wretched police! Again all the blood rushed to her head and nearly killed her. She descended
slowly; and was then informed by a man, not dressed, like Bunfit, in plain clothes, but with
all the paraphernalia of a policeman's uniform, that her late servant, Patience Crabstick,
had given herself up as Queen's evidence, and was now in custody in Scotland Yard. It had been
thought right that she should be so far informed; but the man was able to tell her nothing further.

CHAPTER LXII

"You Know Where My Heart Is"

On the Sunday following, Frank, as usual, was in Hertford Street. He had become almost a favourite
with Mrs. Carbuncle; and had so far ingratiated himself even with Lucinda Roanoke that, according
to Lizzie's report, he might, if so inclined, rob Sir Griffin of his prize without much difficulty.
On this occasion he was unhappy and in low spirits; and when questioned on the subject made
no secret of the fact that he was harassed for money. "The truth is I have overdrawn my bankers
by five hundred pounds, and they have, as they say, ventured to remind me of it. I wish they
were not venturesome quite so often; for they reminded me of the same fact about a fortnight ago."

"What do you do with your money, Mr. Greystock?" asked Mrs. Carbuncle, laughing.

"Muddle it away, paying my bills with it,--according to the very, very old story. The fact
is, I live in that detestable no-man's land, between respectability and insolvency, which has
none of the pleasure of either. I am fair game for every creditor, as I am supposed to pay
my way,--and yet I never can pay my way."

"Just like my poor dear father," said Lizzie.

"Not exactly, Lizzie. He managed much better, and never paid anybody. If I could only land
on terra-firma,--one side or the other,--I shouldn't much care which. As it is I have all the
recklessness, but none of the carelessness, of the hopelessly insolvent man. And it is so hard
with us. Attorneys owe us large sums of money, and we can't dun them very well. I have a lot
of money due to me from rich men, who don't pay me simply because they don't think that it
matters. I talk to them grandly, and look big, as though money was the last thing I thought
of, when I am longing to touch my hat and ask them as a great favour to settle my little bill."
All this time Lizzie was full of matter which she must impart to her cousin, and could impart
to him only in privacy.

It was absolutely necessary that she should tell him what she had heard of Patience Crabstick.
In her heart of hearts she wished that Patience Crabstick had gone off safely with her plunder
to the Antipodes. She had no wish to get back what had been lost, either in the matter of the
diamonds or of the smaller things taken. She had sincerely wished that the police might fail
in all their endeavours, and that the thieves might enjoy perfect security with their booty.
She did not even begrudge Mr. Benjamin the diamonds,--or Lord George, if in truth Lord George
had been the last thief. The robbery had enabled her to get the better of Mr. Camperdown, and
apparently of Lord Fawn; and had freed her from the custody of property which she had learned
to hate. It had been a very good robbery. But now these wretched police had found Patience
Crabstick, and would disturb her again!

Of course she must tell her cousin. He must hear the news, and it would be better that he should
hear it from her than from others. This was Sunday, and she thought he would be sure to know
the truth on the following Monday. In this she was right; for on the Monday old Lady Linlithgow
saw it stated in the newspapers that an arrest had been made. "I have something to tell you,"
she said, as soon as she had succeeded in finding herself alone with him.

"Anything about the diamonds?"

"Well, no; not exactly about the diamonds;--though perhaps it is. But first, Frank, I want
to say something else to you."

"Not about the diamonds?"

"Oh no;--not at all. It is this. You must let me lend you that five hundred pounds you want."

"Indeed you shall do no such thing. I should not have mentioned it to you if I had not thought
that you were one of the insolvent yourself. You were in debt yourself when we last talked
about money."

"So I am;--and that horrid woman, Mrs. Carbuncle, has made me lend her one hundred and fifty
pounds. But it is so different with you, Frank."

"Yes;--my needs are greater than hers."

"What is she to me?--while you are everything! Things can't be so bad with me but what I can
raise five hundred pounds. After all, I am not really in debt, for a person with my income;
but if I were, still my first duty would be to help you if you want help."

"Be generous first, and just afterwards. That's it;--isn't it, Lizzie? But indeed, under no
circumstances could I take a penny of your money. There are some persons from whom a man can
borrow, and some from whom he cannot. You are clearly one of those from whom I cannot borrow."

"Why not?"

"Ah,--one can't explain these things. It simply is so. Mrs. Carbuncle was quite the natural
person to borrow your money, and it seems that she has complied with nature. Some Jew who wants
thirty per cent. is the natural person for me. All these things are arranged, and it is of
no use disturbing the arrangements and getting out of course. I shall pull through. And now
let me know your own news."

"The police have taken Patience."

"They have,--have they? Then at last we shall know all about the diamonds." This was gall to
poor Lizzie. "Where did they get her?"

"Ah!--I don't know that."

"And who told you?"

"A policeman came here last night and said so. She is going to turn against the thieves, and
tell all that she knows. Nasty, mean creature."

"Thieves are nasty, mean creatures generally. We shall get it all out now,--as to what happened
at Carlisle and what happened here. Do you know that everybody believes, up to this moment,
that your dear friend Lord George de Bruce sold the diamonds to Mr. Benjamin, the jeweller?"

Lizzie could only shrug her shoulders. She herself, among many doubts, was upon the whole disposed
to think as everybody thought. She did believe,--as far as she believed anything in the matter,
that the Corsair had determined to become possessed of the prize from the moment that he saw
it in Scotland, that the Corsair arranged the robbery in Carlisle, and that again he arranged
the robbery in the London house as soon as he learned from Lizzie where the diamonds were placed.
To her mind this had been the most ready solution of the mystery, and when she found that other
people almost regarded him as the thief, her doubts became a belief. And she did not in the
least despise or dislike him or condemn him for what he had done. Were he to come to her and
confess it all, telling his story in such a manner as to make her seem to be safe for the future,
she would congratulate him and accept him at once as her own dear, expected Corsair. But, if
so, he should not have bungled the thing. He should have managed his subordinates better than
to have one of them turn evidence against him. He should have been able to get rid of a poor
weak female like Patience Crabstick. Why had he not sent her to New York, or--or--or anywhere?
If Lizzie were to hear that Lord George had taken Patience out to sea in a yacht,--somewhere
among the bright islands of which she thought so much,--and dropped the girl overboard, tied
up in a bag, she would regard it as a proper Corsair arrangement. Now she was angry with Lord
George because her trouble was coming back upon her. Frank had suggested that Lord George was
the robber in chief, and Lizzie merely shrugged her shoulders. "We shall know all about it
now," said he triumphantly.

"I don't know that I want to know any more about it. I have been so tortured about these wretched
diamonds, that I never wish to hear them mentioned again. I don't care who has got them. My
enemies used to think that I loved them so well that I could not bear to part with them. I
hated them always, and never took any pleasure in them. I used to think that I would throw
them into the sea; and when they were gone I was glad of it."

"Thieves ought to be discovered, Lizzie,--for the good of the community."

"I don't care for the community. What has the community ever done for me? And now I have something
else to tell you. Ever so many people came yesterday as well as that wretched policeman. Dear
Lady Glencora was here again."

"They'll make a Radical of you among them, Lizzie."

"I don't care a bit about that. I'd just as soon be a Radical as a stupid old Conservative.
Lady Glencora has been most kind, and she brought me the dearest message from the Duke of Omnium.
The duke had heard how ill I had been treated."

"The duke is doting."

"It is so easy to say that when a man is old. I don't think you know him, Frank."

"Not in the least;--nor do I wish."

"It is something to have the sympathy of men high placed in the world. And as to Lady Glencora,
I do love her dearly. She just comes up to my beau-ideal of what a woman should be,--disinterested,
full of spirit, affectionate, with a dash of romance about her."

"A great dash of romance, I fancy."

"And a determination to be something in the world. Lady Glencora Palliser is something."

"She is awfully rich, Lizzie."

"I suppose so. At any rate, that is no disgrace. And then, Frank, somebody else came."

"Lord Fawn was to have come."

"He did come."

"And how did it go between you?"

"Ah,--that will be so difficult to explain. I wish you had been behind the curtain to hear
it all. It is so necessary that you should know, and yet it is so hard to tell. I spoke up
to him, and was quite high-spirited."

"I daresay you were."

"I told him out, bravely, of all the wrong he had done me. I did not sit and whimper, I can
assure you. Then he talked about you,--of your attentions."

Frank Greystock, of course, remembered the scene among the rocks, and Mr. Gowran's wagging
head and watchful eyes. At the time he had felt certain that some use would be made of Andy's
vigilance, though he had not traced the connexion between the man and Mrs. Hittaway. If Lord
Fawn had heard of the little scene, there might, doubtless, be cause for him to talk of "attentions."
"What did it matter to him?" asked Frank. "He is an insolent ass,--as I have told him once,
and shall have to tell him again."

"I think it did matter, Frank."

"I don't see it a bit. He had resigned his rights,--whatever they were."

"But I had not accepted his resignation,--as they say in the newspapers;--nor have I now."

"You would still marry him?"

"I don't say that, Frank. This is an important business, and let us go through it steadily.
I would certainly like to have him again at my feet. Whether I would deign to lift him up again
is another thing. Is not that natural, after what he has done to me?"

"Woman's nature."

"And I am a woman. Yes, Frank. I would have him again at my disposal,--and he is so. He is
to write me a long letter;--so like a Government-man, isn't it? And he has told me already
what he is to put into the letter. They always do, you know. He is to say that he'll marry
me if I choose."

"He has promised to say that?"

"When he said that he would come, I made up my mind that he should not go out of the house
till he had promised that. He couldn't get out of it. What had I done?" Frank thought of the
scene among the rocks. He did not, of course, allude to it, but Lizzie was not so reticent.
"As to what that old rogue saw down in Scotland, I don't care a bit about it, Frank. He has
been up in London, and telling them all, no doubt. Nasty, dirty eavesdropper! But what does
it come to? Psha! When he mentioned your name I silenced him at once. What could I have done,
unless I had had some friend? At any rate, he is to ask me again in writing,--and then what
shall I say?"

"You must consult your own heart."

"No, Frank;--I need not do that. Why do you say so?"

"I know not what else to say."

"A woman can marry without consulting her heart. Women do so every day. This man is a lord,
and has a position. No doubt I despise him thoroughly,--utterly. I don't hate him, because
he is not worth being hated."

"And yet you would marry him?"

"I have not said so. I will tell you this truth, though perhaps you will say it is not feminine.
I would fain marry some one. To be as I have been for the last two years is not a happy condition."

"I would not marry a man I despised."

"Nor would I,--willingly. He is honest and respectable; and in spite of all that has come and
gone would, I think, behave well to a woman when she was once his wife. Of course, I would
prefer to marry a man that I could love. But if that is impossible, Frank--"

"I thought that you had determined that you would have nothing to do with this lord."

"I thought so too. Frank, you have known all that I have thought, and all that I have wished.
You talk to me of marrying where my heart has been given. Is it possible that I should do so?"

"How am I to say?"

"Come, Frank, be true with me. I am forcing myself to speak truth to you. I think that between
you and me, at any rate, there should be no words spoken that are not true. Frank, you know
where my heart is." As she said this, she stood over him, and laid her hand upon his shoulder.
"Will you answer me one question?"

"If I can, I will."

"Are you engaged to marry Lucy Morris?"

"I am."

"And you intend to marry her?" To this question he made no immediate answer. "We are old enough
now, Frank, to know that something more than what you call heart is wanted to make us happy
when we marry. I will say nothing hard of Lucy, though she be my rival."

"You can say nothing hard of her. She is perfect."

"We will let that pass, though it is hardly kind of you, just at the present moment. Let her
be perfect. Can you marry this perfection without a sixpence,--you that are in debt, and who
never could save a sixpence in your life? Would it be for her good,--or for yours? You have
done a foolish thing, sir, and you know that you must get out of it."

"I know nothing of the kind."

"You cannot marry Lucy Morris. That is the truth. My present need makes me bold. Frank, shall
I be your wife? Such a marriage will not be without love, at any rate on one side,--though
there be utter indifference on the other!"

"You know I am not indifferent to you," said he, with wicked weakness.

"Now, at any rate," she continued, "you must understand what must be my answer to Lord Fawn.
It is you that must answer Lord Fawn. If my heart is to be broken, I may as well break it under
his roof as another."

"I have no roof to offer you," he said.

"But I have one for you," she said, throwing her arm round his neck. He bore her embrace for
a minute, returning it with the pressure of his arm; and then, escaping from it, seized his
hat and left her standing in the room.

CHAPTER LXIII

The Corsair Is Afraid

On the following morning,--Monday morning,--there appeared in one of the daily newspapers the
paragraph of which Lady Linlithgow had spoken to Lucy Morris. "We are given to understand,"--newspapers
are very frequently given to understand,--"that a man well-known to the London police as an
accomplished housebreaker has been arrested in reference to the robbery which was effected
on the 30th of January last at Lady Eustace's house in Hertford Street. No doubt the same person
was concerned in the robbery of her ladyship's jewels at Carlisle on the night of the 8th of
January. The mystery which has so long enveloped these two affairs, and which has been so discreditable
to the metropolitan police, will now probably be cleared up." There was not a word about Patience
Crabstick in this; and, as Lizzie observed, the news brought by the policeman on Saturday night
referred only to Patience, and said nothing of the arrest of any burglar. The ladies in Hertford
Street scanned the sentence with the greatest care, and Mrs. Carbuncle was very angry because
the house was said to be Lizzie's house. "It wasn't my doing," said Lizzie.

"The policeman came to you about it."

"I didn't say a word to the man,--and I didn't want him to come."

"I hope it will be all found out now," said Lucinda.

"I wish it were all clean forgotten," said Lizzie.

"It ought to be found out," said Mrs. Carbuncle. "But the police should be more careful in
what they say. I suppose we shall all have to go before the magistrates again."

Poor Lizzie felt that fresh trouble was certainly coming upon her. She had learned now that
the crime for which she might be prosecuted and punished was that of perjury,--that even if
everything was known, she could not be accused of stealing, and that if she could only get
out of the way till the wrath of the magistrate and policemen should have evaporated, she might
possibly escape altogether. At any rate, they could not take her income away from her. But
how could she get out of the way, and how could she endure to be cross-examined, and looked
at, and inquired into, by all those who would be concerned in the matter? She thought that,
if only she could have arranged her matrimonial affairs before the bad day came upon her, she
could have endured it better. If she might be allowed to see Lord George, she could ask for
advice,--could ask for advice, not as she was always forced to do from her cousin, on a false
statement of facts, but with everything known and declared.

On that very day Lord George came to Hertford Street. He had been there more than once, perhaps
half a dozen times, since the robbery; but on all these occasions Lizzie had been in bed, and
he had declined to visit her in her chamber. In fact, even Lord George had become somewhat
afraid of her since he had been told the true story as to the necklace at Carlisle. That story
he had heard from herself, and he had also heard from Mr. Benjamin some other little details
as to her former life. Mr. Benjamin, whose very close attention had been drawn to the Eustace
diamonds, had told Lord George how he had valued them at her ladyship's request, and had caused
an iron case to be made for them, and how her ladyship had, on one occasion, endeavoured to
sell the necklace to him. Mr. Benjamin, who certainly was intimate with Lord George, was very
fond of talking about the diamonds, and had once suggested to his lordship that, were they
to become his lordship's by marriage, he, Benjamin, might be willing to treat with his lordship.
In regard to treating with her ladyship,--Mr. Benjamin acknowledged that he thought it would
be too hazardous. Then came the robbery of the box, and Lord George was all astray. Mr. Benjamin
was for a while equally astray, but neither friend believed in the other friend's innocence.
That Lord George should suspect Mr. Benjamin was quite natural. Mr. Benjamin hardly knew what
to think;--hardly gave Lord George credit for the necessary courage, skill, and energy. But
at last, as he began to put two and two together, he divined the truth, and was enabled to
set the docile Patience on the watch over her mistress's belongings. So it had been with Mr.
Benjamin, who at last was able to satisfy Mr. Smiler and Mr. Cann that he had been no party
to their cruel disappointment at Carlisle. How Lord George had learned the truth has been told;--the
truth as to Lizzie's hiding the necklace under her pillow and bringing it up to London in her
desk. But of the facts of the second robbery he knew nothing up to this morning. He almost
suspected that Lizzie had herself again been at work,--and he was afraid of her. He had promised
her that he would take care of her,--had, perhaps, said enough to make her believe that some
day he would marry her. He hardly remembered what he had said;--but he was afraid of her. She
was so wonderfully clever that, if he did not take care, she would get him into some mess from
which he would be unable to extricate himself.

He had never whispered her secret to any one; and had still been at a loss about the second
robbery, when he too saw the paragraph in the newspaper. He went direct to Scotland Yard and
made inquiry there. His name had been so often used in the affair, that such inquiry from him
was justified. "Well, my lord; yes; we have found out something," said Bunfit. "Mr. Benjamin
is off, you know."

"Benjamin off?"

"Cut the painter, my lord, and started. But what's the good, now we has the wires?"

"And who were the thieves?"

"Ah, my lord, that's telling. Perhaps I don't know. Perhaps I do. Perhaps two or three of us
knows. You'll hear all in good time, my lord." Mr. Bunfit wished to appear communicative because
he knew but little himself. Gager, in the meanest possible manner, had kept the matter very
close; but the fact that Mr. Benjamin had started suddenly on foreign travel had become known
to Mr. Bunfit.

Lord George had been very careful, asking no question about the necklace;--no question which
would have shown that he knew that the necklace had been in Hertford Street when the robbery
took place there; but it seemed to him now that the police must be aware that it was so. The
arrest had been made because of the robbery in Hertford Street, and because of that arrest
Mr. Benjamin had taken his departure. Mr. Benjamin was too big a man to have concerned himself
deeply in the smaller matters which had then been stolen.

From Scotland Yard Lord George went direct to Hertford Street. He was in want of money, in
want of a settled home, in want of a future income, and altogether unsatisfied with his present
mode of life. Lizzie Eustace, no doubt, would take him,--unless she had told her secret to
some other lover. To have his wife, immediately on her marriage, or even before it, arraigned
for perjury, would not be pleasant. There was very much in the whole affair of which he would
not be proud as he led his bride to the altar;--but a man does not expect to get four thousand
pounds a year for nothing. Lord George, at any rate, did not conceive himself to be in a position
to do so. Had there not been something crooked about Lizzie,--a screw loose, as people say,--she
would never have been within his reach. There are men who always ride lame horses, and yet
see as much of the hunting as others. Lord George, when he had begun to think that, after the
tale which he had forced her to tell him, she had caused the diamonds to be stolen by her own
maid out of her own desk, became almost afraid of her. But now, as he looked at the matter
again and again, he believed that the second robbery had been genuine. He did not quite make
up his mind, but he went to Hertford Street resolved to see her.

He asked for her, and was shown at once into her own sitting-room. "So you have come at last,"
she said.

"Yes;--I've come at last. It would not have done for me to come up to you when you were in
bed. Those women down-stairs would have talked about it everywhere."

"I suppose they would," said Lizzie almost piteously.

"It wouldn't have been at all wise after all that has been said. People would have been sure
to suspect that I had got the things out of your desk."

"Oh, no;--not that."

"I wasn't going to run the risk, my dear." His manner to her was anything but civil, anything
but complimentary. If this was his Corsair humour, she was not sure that a Corsair might be
agreeable to her. "And now tell me what you know about this second robbery."

"I know nothing, Lord George."

"Oh, yes, you do. You know something. You know, at any rate, that the diamonds were there."

"Yes;--I know that."

"And that they were taken?"

"Of course they were taken."

"You are sure of that?" There was something in his manner absolutely insolent to her. Frank
was affectionate, and even Lord Fawn treated her with deference. "Because, you know, you have
been very clever. To tell you the truth, I did not think at first that they had been really
stolen. It might, you know, have been a little game to get them out of your own hands,--between
you and your maid."

"I don't know what you take me for, Lord George."

"I take you for a lady who, for a long time, got the better of the police and the magistrates,
and who managed to shift all the trouble off your own shoulders on to those of other people.
You have heard that they have taken one of the thieves?"

"And they have got the girl."

"Have they? I didn't know that. That scoundrel Benjamin has levanted too."

"Levanted!" said Lizzie, raising both her hands.

"Not an hour too soon, my lady. And now what do you mean to do?"

"What ought I to do?"

"Of course the whole truth will come out."

"Must it come out?"

"Not a doubt of that. How can it be helped?"

"You won't tell. You promised that you would not."

"Psha;--promised! If they put me in a witness-box of course I must tell. When you come to this
kind of work, promises don't go for much. I don't know that they ever do. What is a broken
promise?"

"It's a story," said Lizzie, in innocent amazement.

"And what was it you told when you were upon your oath at Carlisle; and again when the magistrate
came here?"

"Oh, Lord George;--how unkind you are to me!"

"Patience Crabstick will tell it all, without any help from me. Don't you see that the whole
thing must be known? She'll say where the diamonds were found;--and how did they come there,
if you didn't put them there? As for telling, there'll be telling enough. You've only two things
to do."

"What are they, Lord George?"

"Go off, like Mr. Benjamin; or else make a clean breast of it. Send for John Eustace and tell
him the whole. For his brother's sake he'll make the best of it. It will all be published,
and then, perhaps, there will be an end of it."

"I couldn't do that, Lord George!" said Lizzie, bursting into tears.

"You ask me, and I can only tell you what I think. That you should be able to keep the history
of the diamonds a secret, does not seem to me to be upon the cards. No doubt people who are
rich, and are connected with rich people, and have great friends,--who are what the world call
swells,--have great advantages over their inferiors when they get into trouble. You are the
widow of a baronet, and you have an uncle a bishop, and another a dean, and a countess for
an aunt. You have a brother-in-law and a first-cousin in Parliament, and your father was an
admiral. The other day you were engaged to marry a peer."

"Oh yes," said Lizzie, "and Lady Glencora Palliser is my particular friend."

"She is; is she? So much the better. Lady Glencora, no doubt, is a very swell among swells."

"The Duke of Omnium would do anything for me," said Lizzie with enthusiasm.

"If you were nobody, you would, of course, be indicted for perjury, and would go to prison.
As it is, if you will tell all your story to one of your swell friends, I think it very likely
that you may be pulled through. I should say that Mr. Eustace, or your cousin Greystock, would
be the best."

"Why couldn't you do it? You know it all. I told you because--because--because I thought you
would be the kindest to me."

"You told me, my dear, because you thought it would not matter much with me, and I appreciate
the compliment. I can do nothing for you. I am not near enough to those who wear wigs."

Lizzie did not above half understand him,--did not at all understand him when he spoke of those
who wore wigs, and was quite dark to his irony about her great friends;--but she did perceive
that he was in earnest in recommending her to confess. She thought about it for a moment in
silence, and the more she thought the more she felt that she could not do it. Had he not suggested
a second alternative,--that she should go off like Mr. Benjamin? It might be possible that
she should go off, and yet be not quite like Mr. Benjamin. In that case ought she not to go
under the protection of her Corsair? Would not that be the proper way of going? "Might I not
go abroad,--just for a time?" she asked.

"And so let it blow over?"

"Just so, you know."

"It is possible that you might," he said. "Not that it would blow over altogether. Everybody
would know it. It is too late now to stop the police, and if you meant to be off, you should
be off at once;--to-day or to-morrow."

"Oh dear!"

"Indeed, there's no saying whether they will let you go. You could start now, this moment;--and
if you were at Dover could get over to France. But when once it is known that you had the necklace
all that time in your own desk, any magistrate, I imagine, could stop you. You'd better have
some lawyer you can trust;--not that blackguard Mopus."

Lord George had certainly brought her no comfort. When he told her that she might go at once
if she chose, she remembered, with a pang of agony, that she had already overdrawn her account
at the bankers. She was the actual possessor of an income of four thousand pounds a year, and
now, in her terrible strait, she could not stir because she had no money with which to travel.
Had all things been well with her, she could, no doubt, have gone to her bankers and have arranged
this little difficulty. But as it was, she could not move, because her purse was empty.

Lord George sat looking at her, and thinking whether he would make the plunge and ask her to
be his wife,--with all her impediments and drawbacks about her. He had been careful to reduce
her to such a condition of despair, that she would undoubtedly have accepted him, so that she
might have some one to lean upon in her trouble;--but, as he looked at her, he doubted. She
was such a mass of deceit, that he was afraid of her. She might say that she would marry him,
and then, when the storm was over, refuse to keep her word. She might be in debt,--almost to
any amount. She might be already married, for anything that he knew. He did know that she was
subject to all manner of penalties for what she had done. He looked at her, and told himself
that she was very pretty. But in spite of her beauty, his judgment went against her. He did
not dare to share even his boat with so dangerous a fellow-passenger. "That's my advice," he
said, getting up from his chair.

"Are you going?"

"Well;--yes; I don't know what else I can do for you."

"You are so unkind!" He shrugged his shoulders, just touched her hand, and left the room without
saying another word to her.

CHAPTER LXIV

Lizzie's Last Scheme

Lizzie, when she was left alone, was very angry with the Corsair,--in truth, more sincerely
angry than she had ever been with any of her lovers, or, perhaps, with any human being. Sincere,
true, burning wrath was not the fault to which she was most exposed. She could snap and snarl,
and hate, and say severe things; she could quarrel, and fight, and be malicious;--but to be
full of real wrath was uncommon with her. Now she was angry. She had been civil, more than
civil, to Lord George. She had opened her house to him, and her heart. She had told him her
great secret. She had implored his protection. She had thrown herself into his arms. And now
he had rejected her. That he should have been rough to her was only in accordance with the
poetical attributes which she had attributed to him. But his roughness should have been streaked
with tenderness. He should not have left her roughly. In the whole interview he had not said
a loving word to her. He had given her advice,--which might be good or bad,--but he had given
it as to one whom he despised. He had spoken to her throughout the interview exactly as he
might have spoken to Sir Griffin Tewett. She could not analyse her feelings thoroughly, but
she felt that because of what had passed between them, by reason of his knowledge of her secret,
he had robbed her of all that observance which was due to her as a woman and a lady. She had
been roughly used before,--by people of inferior rank who had seen through her ways. Andrew
Gowran had insulted her. Patience Crabstick had argued with her. Benjamin, the employer of
thieves, had been familiar with her. But hitherto, in what she was pleased to call her own
set, she had always been treated with that courtesy which ladies seldom fail to receive. She
understood it all. She knew how much of mere word-service there often is in such complimentary
usage. But, nevertheless, it implies respect, and an acknowledgement of the position of her
who is so respected. Lord George had treated her as one schoolboy treats another.

And he had not spoken to her one word of love. Love will excuse roughness. Spoken love will
palliate even spoken roughness. Had he once called her his own Lizzie, he might have scolded
her as he pleased,--might have abused her to the top of his bent. But as there had been nothing
of the manner of a gentleman to a lady, so also had there been nothing of the lover to his
mistress. That dream was over. Lord George was no longer a Corsair, but a brute.

But what should she do? Even a brute may speak truth. She was to have gone to a theatre that
evening with Mrs. Carbuncle, but she stayed at home thinking over her position. She heard nothing
throughout the day from the police; and she made up her mind that, unless she were stopped
by the police, she would go to Scotland on the day but one following. She thought that she
was sure that she would do so; but, of course, she must be guided by events as they occurred.
She wrote, however, to Miss Macnulty saying that she would come, and she told Mrs. Carbuncle
of her proposed journey as that lady was leaving the house for the theatre. On the following
morning, however, news came which again made her journey doubtful. There was another paragraph
in the newspaper about the robbery, acknowledging the former paragraph to have been in some
respect erroneous. The "accomplished housebreaker" had not been arrested. A confederate of
the "accomplished housebreaker" was in the hands of the police, and the police were on the
track of the "accomplished housebreaker" himself. Then there was a line or two alluding in
a very mysterious way to the disappearance of a certain jeweller. Taking it altogether, Lizzie
thought that there was ground for hope,--and that, at any rate, there would be delay. She would,
perhaps, put off going to Scotland for yet a day or two. Was it not necessary that she should
wait for Lord Fawn's answer; and would it not be incumbent on her cousin Frank to send her
some account of himself after the abrupt manner in which he had left her?

If in real truth she should be driven to tell her story to any one,--and she began to think
that she was so driven,--she would tell it to him. She believed more in his regard for her
than that of any other human being. She thought that he would, in truth, have been devoted
to her, had he not become entangled with that wretched little governess. And she thought that
if he could see his way out of that scrape, he would marry her even yet,--would marry her,
and be good to her, so that her dream of a poetical phase of life should not be altogether
dissolved. After all, the diamonds were her own. She had not stolen them. When perplexed in
the extreme by magistrates and policemen, with nobody near her whom she trusted to give her
advice,--for Lizzie now of course declared to herself that she had never for a moment trusted
the Corsair,--she had fallen into an error, and said what was not true. As she practised it
before the glass, she thought that she could tell her story in a becoming manner, with becoming
tears, to Frank Greystock. And were it not for Lucy Morris, she thought that he would take
her with all her faults and all her burthens.

As for Lord Fawn, she knew well enough that, let him write what he would, and renew his engagement
in what most formal manner might be possible, he would be off again when he learned the facts
as to that night at Carlisle. She had brought him to succumb, because he could no longer justify
his treatment of her by reference to the diamonds. But when once all the world should know
that she had twice perjured herself, his justification would be complete,--and his escape would
be certain. She would use his letter simply to achieve that revenge which she had promised
herself. Her effort,--her last final effort,--must be made to secure the hand and heart of
her cousin Frank. "Ah, 'tis his heart I want!" she said to herself.

She must settle something before she went to Scotland,--if there was anything that could be
settled. If she could only get a promise from Frank before all her treachery had been exposed,
he probably would remain true to his promise. He would not desert her as Lord Fawn had done.
Then, after much thinking of it, she resolved upon a scheme which, of all her schemes, was
the wickedest. Whatever it might cost her, she would create a separation between Frank Greystock
and Lucy Morris. Having determined upon this, she wrote to Lucy, asking her to call in Hertford
Street at a certain hour.

   DEAR LUCY,

   I particularly want to see you,--on business. Pray come to
   me at twelve to-morrow. I will send the carriage for you,
   and it will take you back again. Pray do this. We used to
   love one another, and I am sure I love you still.

   Your affectionate old friend,

   LIZZIE.

As a matter of course Lucy went to her. Lizzie, before the interview, studied the part she
was to play with all possible care,--even to the words which she was to use. The greeting was
at first kindly, for Lucy had almost forgotten the bribe that had been offered to her, and
had quite forgiven it. Lizzie Eustace never could be dear to her; but,--so Lucy had thought
during her happiness,--this former friend of hers was the cousin of the man who was to be her
husband, and was dear to him. Of course she had forgiven the offence. "And now, dear, I want
to ask you a question," Lizzie said; "or rather, perhaps not a question. I can do it better
than that. I think that my cousin Frank once talked of--of making you his wife." Lucy answered
not a word, but she trembled in every limb, and the colour came to her face. "Was it not so, dear?"

"What if it was? I don't know why you should ask me any question like that about myself."

"Is he not my cousin?"

"Yes,--he is your cousin. Why don't you ask him? You see him every day, I suppose?"

"Nearly every day."

"Why do you send for me, then?"

"It is so hard to tell you, Lucy. I have sent to you in good faith, and in love. I could have
gone to you,--only for the old vulture, who would not have let us had a word in peace. I do
see him--constantly. And I love him dearly."

"That is nothing to me," said Lucy. Anybody hearing them, and not knowing them, would have
said that Lucy's manner was harsh in the extreme.

"He has told me everything." Lizzie, when she said this, paused, looking at her victim. "He
has told me things which he could not mention to you. It was only yesterday,--the day before
yesterday,--that he was speaking to me of his debts. I offered to place all that I have at
his disposal, so as to free him, but he would not take my money."

"Of course he would not."

"Not my money alone. Then he told me that he was engaged to you. He had never told me before,
but yet I knew it. It all came out then. Lucy, though he is engaged to you, it is me that he
loves."

"I don't believe it," said Lucy.

"You can't make me angry, Lucy, because my heart bleeds for you."

"Nonsense! trash! I don't want your heart to bleed. I don't believe you've got a heart. You've
got money; I know that."

"And he has got none. If I did not love him, why should I wish to give him all that I have?
Is not that disinterested?"

"No. You are always thinking of yourself. You couldn't be disinterested."

"And of whom are you thinking? Are you doing the best for him,--a man in his position, without
money, ambitious, sure to succeed if want of money does not stop him,--in wishing him to marry
a girl with nothing? Cannot I do more for him than you can?"

"I could work for him on my knees, I love him so truly!"

"Would that do him any service? He cannot marry you. Does he ever see you? Does he write to
you as though you were to be his wife? Do you not know that it is all over?--that it must be
over? It is impossible that he should marry you. But if you will give him back his word, he
shall be my husband, and shall have all that I possess. Now, let us see who loves him best!"

"I do!" said Lucy.

"How will you show it?"

"There is no need that I should show it. He knows it. The only one in the world to whom I wish
it to be known, knows it already well enough. Did you send for me for this?"

"Yes;--for this."

"It is for him to tell me the tidings;--not for you. You are nothing to me;--nothing. And what
you say to me now is all for yourself,--not for him. But it is true that he does not see me.
It is true that he does not write to me. You may tell him from me,--for I cannot write to him
myself,--that he may do whatever is best for him. But if you tell him that I do not love him
better than all the world, you will lie to him. And if you say that he loves you better than
he does me, that also will be a lie. I know his heart."

"But Lucy--"

"I will hear no more. He can do as he pleases. If money be more to him than love and honesty,
let him marry you. I shall never trouble him; he may be sure of that. As for you, Lizzie, I
hope that we may never meet again."

She would not get into the Eustace-Carbuncle carriage, which was waiting for her at the door,
but walked back to Bruton Street. She did not doubt but that it was all over with her now.
That Lizzie Eustace was an inveterate liar, she knew well; but she did believe that the liar
had on this occasion been speaking truth. Lady Fawn was not a liar, and Lady Fawn had told
her the same. And, had she wanted more evidence, did not her lover's conduct give it? "It is
because I am poor," she said to herself,--"for I know well that he loves me!"

CHAPTER LXV

Tribute

Lizzie put off her journey to Scotland from day to day, though her cousin Frank continually
urged upon her the expediency of going. There were various reasons, he said, why she should
go. Her child was there, and it was proper that she should be with her child. She was living
at present with people whose reputation did not stand high,--and as to whom all manner of evil
reports were flying about the town. It was generally thought,--so said Frank,--that that Lord
George de Bruce Carruthers had assisted Mr. Benjamin in stealing the diamonds, and Frank himself
did not hesitate to express his belief in the accusation. "Oh no, that cannot be," said Lizzie,
trembling. But, though she rejected the supposition, she did not reject it very firmly. "And
then, you know," continued Lizzie, "I never see him. I have actually only set eyes on him once
since the second robbery, and then just for a minute. Of course, I used to know him,--down
at Portray,--but now we are strangers." Frank went on with his objections. He declared that
the manner in which Mrs. Carbuncle had got up the match between Lucinda Roanoke and Sir Griffin
was shameful,--all the world was declaring that it was shameful,--that she had not a penny,
that the girl was an adventurer, and that Sir Griffin was an obstinate, pig-headed, ruined
idiot. It was expedient on every account that Lizzie should take herself away from that "lot."
The answer that Lizzie desired to make was very simple. Let me go as your betrothed bride,
and I will start to-morrow,--to Scotland or elsewhere, as you may direct. Let that little affair
be settled, and I shall be quite as willing to get out of London as you can be to send me.
But I am in such a peck of troubles that something must be settled. And as it seems that after
all the police are still astray about the necklace, perhaps I needn't run away from them for
a little while even yet. She did not say this. She did not even in so many words make the first
proposition. But she did endeavour to make Frank understand that she would obey his dictation
if he would earn the right to dictate. He either did not or would not understand her, and then
she became angry with him,--or pretended to be angry. "Really, Frank," she said, "you are hardly
fair to me."

"In what way am I unfair?"

"You come here and abuse all my friends, and tell me to go here and go there, just as though
I were a child. And--and--and--"

"And what, Lizzie?"

"You know what I mean. You are one thing one day, and one another. I hope Miss Lucy Morris
was quite well when you last heard from her."

"You have no right to speak to me of Lucy,--at least, not in disparagement."

"You are treating her very badly;--you know that."

"I am."

"Then why don't you give it up? Why don't you let her have her chances,--to do what she can
with them? You know very well that you can't marry her. You know that you ought not to have
asked her. You talk of Miss Roanoke and Sir Griffin Tewett. There are people quite as bad as
Sir Griffin,--or Mrs. Carbuncle either. Don't suppose I am speaking for myself. I've given
up all that idle fancy long ago. I shall never marry a second time myself. I have made up my
mind to that. I have suffered too much already." Then she burst into tears.

He dried her tears and comforted her, and forgave all the injurious things she had said of
him. It is almost impossible for a man,--a man under forty and unmarried, and who is not a
philosopher,--to have familiar and affectionate intercourse with a beautiful young woman, and
carry it on as he might do with a friend of the other sex. In his very heart Greystock despised
this woman; he had told himself over and over again that were there no Lucy in the case he
would not marry her; that she was affected, unreal,--and, in fact, a liar in every word and
look and motion which came from her with premeditation. Judging, not from her own account,
but from circumstances as he saw them and such evidence as had reached him, he did not condemn
her in reference to the diamonds. He had never for a moment conceived that she had secreted
them. He acquitted her altogether from those special charges which had been widely circulated
against her; but, nevertheless, he knew her to be heartless and bad. He had told himself a
dozen times that it would be well for him that she should be married and taken out of his hands.
And yet he loved her after a fashion, and was prone to sit near her, and was fool enough to
be flattered by her caresses. When she would lay her hand on his arm, a thrill of pleasure
went through him. And yet he would willingly have seen any decent man take her and marry her,
making a bargain that he should never see her again. Young or old, men are apt to become Merlins
when they encounter Viviens. On this occasion he left her, disgusted indeed, but not having
told her that he was disgusted. "Come again, Frank, to-morrow, won't you?" she said. He made
her no promise as he went, nor had she expected it. He had left her quite abruptly the other
day, and he now went away almost in the same fashion. But she was not surprised. She understood
that the task she had in hand was one very difficult to be accomplished,--and she did perceive,
in some dark way, that, good as her acting was, it was not quite good enough. Lucy held her
ground because she was real. You may knock about a diamond, and not even scratch it; whereas
paste in rough usage betrays itself. Lizzie, with all her self-assuring protestations, knew
that she was paste, and knew that Lucy was real stone. Why could she not force herself to act
a little better, so that the paste might be as good as the stone,--might at least seem to be
as good? "If he despises me now, what will he say when he finds it all out?" she asked herself.

As for Frank Greystock himself, though he had quite made up his mind about Lizzie Eustace,
he was still in doubt about the other girl. At the present moment he was making over two thousand
pounds a year, and yet was more in debt now than he had been a year ago. When he attempted
to look at his affairs, he could not even remember what had become of his money. He did not
gamble. He had no little yacht, costing him about six hundred a year. He kept one horse in
London, and one only. He had no house. And when he could spare time from his work, he was generally
entertained at the houses of his friends. And yet from day to day his condition seemed to become
worse and worse. It was true that he never thought of half-a-sovereign; that in calling for
wine at his club he was never influenced by the cost; that it seemed to him quite rational
to keep a cab waiting for him half the day; that in going or coming he never calculated expense;
that in giving an order to a tailor he never dreamed of anything beyond his own comfort. Nevertheless,
when he recounted with pride his great economies, reminding himself that he, a successful man,
with a large income and no family, kept neither hunters, nor yacht, nor moor, and that he did
not gamble, he did think it very hard that he should be embarrassed. But he was embarrassed,
and in that condition could it be right for him to marry a girl without a shilling?

In these days Mrs. Carbuncle was very urgent with her friend not to leave London till after
the marriage. Lizzie had given no promise,--had only been induced to promise that the loan
of one hundred and fifty pounds should not be held to have any bearing on the wedding present
to be made to Lucinda. That could be got on credit from Messrs. Harter and Benjamin; for though
Mr. Benjamin was absent,--on a little tour through Europe in search of precious stones in the
cheap markets, old Mr. Harter suggested,--the business went on the same as ever. There was
a good deal of consultation about the present, and Mrs. Carbuncle at last decided, no doubt
with the concurrence of Miss Roanoke, that it should consist simply of silver forks and spoons,--real
silver as far as the money would go. Mrs. Carbuncle herself went with her friend to select
the articles,--as to which, perhaps, we shall do her no injustice in saying that a ready sale,
should such a lamentable occurrence ever become necessary, was one of the objects which she
had in view. Mrs. Carbuncle's investigations as to the quality of the metal quite won Mr. Harter's
respect; and it will probably be thought that she exacted no more than justice,--seeing that
the thing had become a matter of bargain,--in demanding that the thirty-five pounds should
be stretched to fifty, because the things were bought on long credit. "My dear Lizzie," Mrs.
Carbuncle said, "the dear girl won't have an ounce more than she would have got, had you gone
into another sort of shop with thirty-five sovereigns in your hand." Lizzie growled, but Mrs.
Carbuncle's final argument was conclusive. "I'll tell you what we'll do," said she; "we'll
take thirty pounds down in ready money." There was no answer to be made to so reasonable a
proposition.

The presents to be made to Lucinda were very much thought of in Hertford Street at this time,
and Lizzie,--independently of any feeling that she might have as to her own contribution,--did
all she could to assist the collection of tribute. It was quite understood that as a girl can
only be married once,--for a widow's chance in such matters amounts to but little,--everything
should be done to gather toll from the tax-payers of society. It was quite fair on such an
occasion that men should be given to understand that something worth having was expected,--no
trumpery thirty-shilling piece of crockery, no insignificant glass bottle, or fantastic paper-knife
of no real value whatever, but got up just to put money into the tradesmen's hands. To one
or two elderly gentlemen upon whom Mrs. Carbuncle had smiled, she ventured to suggest in plain
words that a cheque was the most convenient cadeau. "What do you say to a couple of sovereigns?"
one sarcastic old gentleman replied, upon whom probably Mrs. Carbuncle had not smiled enough.
She laughed and congratulated her sarcastic friend upon his joke;--but the two sovereigns were
left upon the table, and went to swell the spoil.

"You must do something handsome for Lucinda," Lizzie said to her cousin.

"What do you call handsome?"

"You are a bachelor and a Member of Parliament. Say fifteen pounds."

"I'll be ---- if I do!" said Frank, who was beginning to be very much disgusted with the house
in Hertford Street. "There's a five-pound note, and you may do what you please with it." Lizzie
gave over the five-pound note,--the identical bit of paper that had come from Frank; and Mrs.
Carbuncle, no doubt, did do what she pleased with it.

There was almost a quarrel because Lizzie, after much consideration, declared that she did
not see her way to get a present from the Duke of Omnium. She had talked so much to Mrs. Carbuncle
about the duke, that Mrs. Carbuncle was almost justified in making the demand. "It isn't the
value, you know," said Mrs. Carbuncle; "neither I nor Lucinda would think of that; but it would
look so well to have the dear duke's name on something." Lizzie declared that the duke was
unapproachable on such subjects. "There you're wrong," said Mrs. Carbuncle. "I happen to know
there is nothing his grace likes so much as giving wedding presents." This was the harder upon
Lizzie as she actually did succeed in saying such kind things about Lucinda, that Lady Glencora
sent Miss Roanoke the prettiest smelling-bottle in the world. "You don't mean to say you've
given a present to the future Lady Tewett?" said Madame Max Goesler to her friend. "Why not?
Sir Griffin can't hurt me. When one begins to be good-natured, why shouldn't one be good-natured
all round?" Madame Max remarked that it might, perhaps, be preferable to put an end to good-nature
altogether. "There I daresay you're right, my dear," said Lady Glencora. "I've long felt that
making presents means nothing. Only if one has a lot of money and people like it, why shouldn't
one? I've made so many to people I hardly ever saw that one more to Lady Tewett can't hurt."

Perhaps the most wonderful affair in that campaign was the spirited attack which Mrs. Carbuncle
made on a certain Mrs. Hanbury Smith, who for the last six or seven years had not been among
Mrs. Carbuncle's more intimate friends. Mrs. Hanbury Smith lived with her husband in Paris,
but before her marriage had known Mrs. Carbuncle in London. Her father, Mr. Bunbury Jones,
had, from certain causes, chosen to show certain civilities to Mrs. Carbuncle just at the period
of his daughter's marriage, and Mrs. Carbuncle being perhaps at that moment well supplied with
ready money, had presented a marriage present. From that to this present day Mrs. Carbuncle
had seen nothing of Mrs. Hanbury Smith, nor of Mr. Bunbury Jones, but she was not the woman
to waste the return-value of such a transaction. A present so given was seed sown in the earth,--seed,
indeed, that could not be expected to give back twenty-fold, or even ten-fold, but still seed
from which a crop should be expected. So she wrote to Mrs. Hanbury Smith, explaining that her
darling niece Lucinda was about to be married to Sir Griffin Tewett, and that, as she had no
child of her own, Lucinda was the same to her as a daughter. And then, lest there might be
any want of comprehension, she expressed her own assurance that her friend would be glad to
have an opportunity of reciprocating the feelings which had been evinced on the occasion of
her own marriage. "It is no good mincing matters now-a-days," Mrs. Carbuncle would have said,
had any friend pointed out to her that she was taking strong measures in the exaction of toll.
"People have come to understand that a spade is a spade, and £10, £10," she would have said.
Had Mrs. Hanbury Smith not noticed the application, there might, perhaps, have been an end
of it, but she was silly enough to send over from Paris a little trumpery bit of finery, bought
in the Palais Royal for ten francs. Whereupon Mrs. Carbuncle wrote the following letter:--

   MY DEAR MRS. HANBURY SMITH,

   Lucinda has received your little brooch, and is much
   obliged to you for thinking of her; but you must remember
   that when you were married, I sent you a bracelet which
   cost £10. If I had a daughter of my own, I should, of
   course, expect that she would reap the benefit of this
   on her marriage;--and my niece is the same to me as a
   daughter. I think that this is quite understood now among
   people in society. Lucinda will be disappointed much if
   you do not send her what she thinks she has a right to
   expect. Of course you can deduct the brooch if you please.

   Yours very sincerely,

   JANE CARBUNCLE.

Mr. Hanbury Smith was something of a wag, and caused his wife to write back as follows:--

   DEAR MRS. CARBUNCLE,

   I quite acknowledge the reciprocity system, but don't
   think it extends to descendants,--certainly not to nieces.
   I acknowledge, too, the present quoted at £10. I thought
   it had been £7 10s.--["The nasty, mean creature," said
   Mrs. Carbuncle, when showing the correspondence to
   Lizzie, "must have been to the tradesman to inquire! The
   price named was £10, but I got £2 l0s. off for ready
   money."]--At your second marriage I will do what is
   needful; but I can assure you I haven't recognised nieces
   with any of my friends.

   Yours very truly,

   CAROLINE HANBURY SMITH.

The correspondence was carried no further, for not even can a Mrs. Carbuncle exact payment
of such a debt in any established court; but she inveighed bitterly against the meanness of
Mrs. Smith, telling the story openly, and never feeling that she told it against herself. In
her set it was generally thought that she had done quite right.

She managed better with old Mr. Cabob, who had certainly received many of Mrs. Carbuncle's
smiles, and who was very rich. Mr. Cabob did as he was desired, and sent a cheque,--a cheque
for £20; and added a message that he hoped Miss Roanoke would buy with it any little thing
that she liked. Miss Roanoke,--or her aunt for her,--liked a thirty-guinea ring, and bought
it, having the bill for the balance sent in to Mr. Cabob. Mr. Cabob, who probably knew that
he must pay well for his smiles, never said anything about it.

Lady Eustace went into all this work, absolutely liking it. She had felt nothing of anger even
as regarded her own contribution,--much as she had struggled to reduce the amount. People,
she felt, ought to be sharp;--and it was nice to look at pretty things, and to be cunning about
them. She would have applied to the Duke of Omnium had she dared, and was very triumphant when
she got the smelling-bottle from Lady Glencora. But Lucinda herself took no part whatever in
all these things. Nothing that Mrs. Carbuncle could say would induce her to take any interest
in them, or even in the trousseau, which, without reference to expense, was being supplied
chiefly on the very indifferent credit of Sir Griffin. What Lucinda had to say about the matter
was said solely to her aunt. Neither Lady Eustace, nor Lord George, nor even the maid who dressed
her, heard any of her complaints. But complain she did, and that with terrible energy. "What
is the use of it, Aunt Jane? I shall never have a house to put them into."

"What nonsense, my dear! Why shouldn't you have a house as well as others?"

"And if I had, I should never care for them. I hate them. What does Lady Glencora Palliser
or Lord Fawn care for me?" Even Lord Fawn had been put under requisition, and had sent a little
box full of stationery.

"They are worth money, Lucinda; and when a girl marries she always gets them."

"Yes;--and when they come from people who love her, and who pour them into her lap with kisses,
because she has given herself to a man she loves, then it must be nice. Oh,--if I were marrying
a poor man, and a poor friend had given me a gridiron to help me to cook my husband's dinner,
how I could have valued it!"

"I don't know that you like poor things and poor people better than anybody else," said Aunt Jane.

"I don't like anything or anybody," said Lucinda.

"You had better take the good things that come to you, then; and not grumble. How I have worked
to get all this arranged for you, and now what thanks have I?"

"You'll find you have worked for very little, Aunt Jane. I shall never marry the man yet."
This, however, had been said so often that Aunt Jane thought nothing of the threat.

CHAPTER LXVI

The Aspirations of Mr. Emilius

It was acknowledged by Mrs. Carbuncle very freely that in the matter of tribute no one behaved
better than Mr. Emilius, the fashionable, foreign, ci-devant Jew preacher, who still drew great
congregations in the neighbourhood of Mrs. Carbuncle's house. Mrs. Carbuncle, no doubt, attended
regularly at Mr. Emilius's church, and had taken a sitting for thirteen Sundays at something
like ten shillings a Sunday. But she had not as yet paid the money, and Mr. Emilius was well
aware that if his tickets were not paid for in advance, there would be considerable defalcations
in his income. He was, as a rule, very particular as to such payments, and would not allow
a name to be put on a sitting till the money had reached his pockets; but with Mrs. Carbuncle
he had descended to no such commercial accuracy. Mrs. Carbuncle had seats for three,--for one
of which Lady Eustace paid her share in advance,--in the midst of the very best pews in the
most conspicuous part of the house,--and hardly a word had been said to her about the money.
And now there came to them from Mr. Emilius the prettiest little gold salver that ever was
seen. "I send Messrs. Clerico's docket," wrote Mr. Emilius, "as Miss Roanoke may like to know
the quality of the metal." "Ah," said Mrs. Carbuncle, inspecting the little dish, and putting
two and two together; "he's got it cheap, no doubt,--at the place where they commissioned him
to buy the plate and candlesticks for the church; but at £3 16s. 3d. the gold is worth nearly
twenty pounds." Mr. Emilius no doubt had had his outing in the autumn through the instrumentality
of Mrs. Carbuncle's kindness; but that was past and gone, and such lavish gratitude for a past
favour could hardly be expected from Mr. Emilius. "I'll be hanged if he isn't after Portray
Castle," said Mrs. Carbuncle to herself.

Mr. Emilius was after Portray Castle, and had been after Portray Castle in a silent, not very
confident, but yet not altogether hopeless manner ever since he had seen the glories of that
place, and learned something of truth as to the widow's income. Mrs. Carbuncle was led to her
conclusion not simply by the wedding present, but in part also by the diligence displayed by
Mr. Emilius in removing the doubts which had got abroad respecting his condition in life. He
assured Mrs. Carbuncle that he had never been married. Shortly after his ordination, which
had been effected under the hands of that great and good man the late Bishop of Jerusalem,
he had taken to live with him a lady who was-- Mrs. Carbuncle did not quite recollect who the
lady was, but remembered that she was connected in some way with a step-mother of Mr. Emilius
who lived in Bohemia. This lady had for awhile kept house for Mr. Emilius;--but ill-natured
things had been said, and Mr. Emilius, having respect to his cloth, had sent the poor lady
back to Bohemia. The consequence was that he now lived in a solitude which was absolute, and,
as Mr. Emilius added, somewhat melancholy. All this Mr. Emilius explained very fully, not to
Lizzie herself, but to Mrs. Carbuncle. If Lady Eustace chose to entertain such a suitor, why
should he not come? It was nothing to Mrs. Carbuncle.

Lizzie laughed when she was told that she might add the reverend gentleman to the list of her
admirers. "Don't you remember," she said, "how we used to chaff Miss Macnulty about him?"

"I knew better than that," replied Mrs. Carbuncle.

"There is no saying what a man may be after," said Lizzie. "I didn't know but what he might
have thought that Macnulty's connexions would increase his congregation."

"He's after you, my dear, and your income. He can manage a congregation for himself."

Lizzie was very civil to him, but it would be unjust to her to say that she gave him any encouragement.
It is quite the proper thing for a lady to be on intimate, and even on affectionate, terms
with her favourite clergyman, and Lizzie certainly had intercourse with no clergyman who was
a greater favourite with her than Mr. Emilius. She had a dean for an uncle, and a bishop for
an uncle-in-law; but she was at no pains to hide her contempt for these old fogies of the Church.
"They preach now and then in the cathedral," she said to Mr. Emilius, "and everybody takes
the opportunity of going to sleep." Mr. Emilius was very much amused at this description of
the eloquence of the dignitaries. It was quite natural to him that people should go to sleep
in church who take no trouble in seeking eloquent preachers. "Ah," he said, "the Church in
England, which is my Church,--the Church which I love,--is beautiful. She is as a maiden, all
glorious with fine raiment. But alas! she is mute. She does not sing. She has no melody. But
the time cometh in which she shall sing. I, myself,--I am a poor singer in the great choir."
In saying which Mr. Emilius no doubt intended to allude to his eloquence as a preacher.

He was a man who could listen as well as sing, and he was very careful to hear well that which
was being said in public about Lady Eustace and her diamonds. He had learned thoroughly what
was her condition in reference to the Portray estate, and was rejoiced rather than otherwise
to find that she enjoyed only a life-interest in the property. Had the thing been better than
it was, it would have been the further removed from his reach. And in the same way, when rumours
reached him prejudicial to Lizzie in respect of the diamonds, he perceived that such prejudice
might work weal for him. A gentleman once, on ordering a mackerel for dinner, was told that
a fresh mackerel would come to a shilling. He could have a stale mackerel for sixpence. "Then
bring me a stale mackerel," said the gentleman. Mr. Emilius coveted fish, but was aware that
his position did not justify him in expecting the best fish on the market. The Lord Fawns and
the Frank Greystocks of the world would be less likely to covet Lizzie, should she, by any
little indiscretion, have placed herself under a temporary cloud. Mr. Emilius had carefully
observed the heavens, and knew how quickly such clouds will disperse themselves when they are
tinged with gold. There was nothing which Lizzie had done, or would be likely to do, which
could materially affect her income. It might indeed be possible that the Eustaces should make
her pay for the necklace; but even in that case, there would be quite enough left for that
modest, unambitious comfort which Mr. Emilius desired. It was by preaching, and not by wealth,
that he must make himself known in the world!--but for a preacher to have a pretty wife with
a title and a good income,--and a castle in Scotland,--what an Elysium it would be! In such
a condition he would envy no dean, no bishop,--no archbishop! He thought a great deal about
it, and saw no positive bar to his success.

She told him that she was going to Scotland. "Not immediately!" he exclaimed.

"My little boy is there," she said.

"But why should not your little boy be here? Surely, for people who can choose, the great centre
of the world offers attractions which cannot be found in secluded spots."

"I love seclusion," said Lizzie, with rapture.

"Ah, yes; I can believe that." Mr. Emilius had himself witnessed the seclusion of Portray Castle,
and had heard, when there, many stories of the Ayrshire hunting. "It is your nature;--but,
dear Lady Eustace, will you allow me to say that our nature is implanted in us in accordance
with the Fall?"

"Do you mean to say that it is wicked to like to be in Scotland better than in this giddy town?"

"I say nothing about wicked, Lady Eustace; but this I do say, that nature alone will not lead
us always aright. It is good to be at Portray part of the year, no doubt; but are there not
blessings in such a congregation of humanity as this London which you cannot find at Portray?"

"I can hear you preach, Mr. Emilius, certainly."

"I hope that is something, too, Lady Eustace;--otherwise a great many people who kindly come
to hear me must sadly waste their time. And your example to the world around;--is it not more
serviceable amidst the crowds of London than in the solitudes of Scotland? There is more good
to be done, Lady Eustace, by living among our fellow-creatures than by deserting them. Therefore
I think you should not go to Scotland before August, but should have your little boy brought
to you here."

"The air of his native mountains is everything to my child," said Lizzie. The child had, in
fact, been born at Bobsborough, but that probably would make no real difference.

"You cannot wonder that I should plead for your stay," said Mr. Emilius, throwing all his soul
into his eyes. "How dark would everything be to me if I missed you from your seat in the house
of praise and prayer!"

Lizzie Eustace, like some other ladies who ought to be more appreciative, was altogether deficient
in what may perhaps be called good taste in reference to men. Though she was clever, and though,
in spite of her ignorance, she at once knew an intelligent man from a fool, she did not know
the difference between a gentleman and a--"cad." It was in her estimation something against
Mr. Emilius that he was a clergyman, something against him that he had nothing but what he
earned, something against him that he was supposed to be a renegade Jew, and that nobody knew
whence he came nor who he was. These deficiencies or drawbacks Lizzie recognised. But it was
nothing against him in her judgment that he was a greasy, fawning, pawing, creeping, black-browed
rascal, who could not look her full in the face, and whose every word sounded like a lie. There
was a twang in his voice which ought to have told her that he was utterly untrustworthy. There
was an oily pretence at earnestness in his manner which ought to have told that he was not
fit to associate with gentlemen. There was a foulness of demeanour about him which ought to
have given to her, as a woman at any rate brought up among ladies, an abhorrence of his society.
But all this Lizzie did not feel. She ridiculed to Mrs. Carbuncle the idea of the preacher's
courtship. She still thought that in the teeth of all her misfortunes she could do better with
herself than marry Mr. Emilius. She conceived that the man must be impertinent if Mrs. Carbuncle's
assertions were true;--but she was neither angry nor disgusted, and she allowed him to talk
to her, and even to make love to her, after his nasty pseudo-clerical fashion.

She could surely still do better with herself than marry Mr. Emilius! It was now the twentieth
of March, and a fortnight had gone since an intimation had been sent to her from the headquarters
of the police that Patience Crabstick was in their hands. Nothing further had occurred, and
it might be that Patience Crabstick had told no tale against her. She could not bring herself
to believe that Patience had no tale to tell, but it might be that Patience, though she was
in the hands of the police, would find it to her interest to tell no tale against her late
mistress. At any rate, there was silence and quiet, and the affair of the diamonds seemed almost
to be passing out of people's minds. Greystock had twice called in Scotland Yard, but had been
able to learn nothing. It was feared, they said, that the people really engaged in the robbery
had got away scot-free. Frank did not quite believe them, but he could learn nothing from them.
Thus encouraged, Lizzie determined that she would remain in London till after Lucinda's marriage,--till
after she should have received the promised letter from Lord Fawn, as to which, though it was
so long in coming, she did not doubt that it would come at last. She could do nothing with
Frank,--who was a fool! She could do nothing with Lord George,--who was a brute! Lord Fawn
would still be within her reach, if only the secret about the diamonds could be kept a secret
till after she should have become his wife.

About this time Lucinda spoke to her respecting her proposed journey. "You were talking of
going to Scotland a week ago, Lady Eustace."

"And am still talking of it."

"Aunt Jane says that you are waiting for my wedding. It is very kind of you;--but pray don't
do that."

"I shouldn't think of going now till after your marriage. It only wants ten or twelve days."

"I count them. I know how many days it wants. It may want more than that."

"You can't put it off now, I should think," said Lizzie; "and as I have ordered my dress for
the occasion I shall certainly stay and wear it."

"I am very sorry for your dress. I am very sorry for it all. Do you know;--I sometimes think
I shall--murder him."

"Lucinda,--how can you say anything so horrible! But I see you are only joking." There did
come a ghastly smile over that beautiful face, which was so seldom lighted up by any expression
of mirth or good humour. "But I wish you would not say such horrible things."

"It would serve him right;--and if he were to murder me, that would serve me right. He knows
that I detest him, and yet he goes on with it. I have told him so a score of times, but nothing
will make him give it up. It is not that he loves me, but he thinks that that will be his triumph."

"Why don't you give it up, if it makes you unhappy?"

"It ought to come from him,--ought it not?"

"I don't see why," said Lizzie.

"He is not bound to anybody as I am bound to my aunt. No one can have exacted an oath from
him. Lady Eustace, you don't quite understand how we are situated. I wonder whether you would
take the trouble to be good to me?"

Lucinda Roanoke had never asked a favour of her before;--had never, to Lizzie's knowledge,
asked a favour of any one. "In what way can I be good to you?" she said.

"Make him give it up. You may tell him what you like of me. Tell him that I shall only make
him miserable, and more despicable than he is;--that I shall never be a good wife to him. Tell
him that I am thoroughly bad, and that he will repent it to the last day of his life. Say whatever
you like,--but make him give it up."

"When everything has been prepared!"

"What does all that signify compared to a life of misery? Lady Eustace, I really think that
I should--kill him, if he really were--were my husband." Lizzie at last said that she would,
at any rate, speak to Sir Griffin.

And she did speak to Sir Griffin, having waited three or four days for an opportunity to do
so. There had been some desperately sharp words between Sir Griffin and Mrs. Carbuncle with
reference to money. Sir Griffin had been given to understand that Lucinda had, or would have,
some few hundred pounds, and insisted that the money should be handed over to him on the day
of his marriage. Mrs. Carbuncle had declared that the money was to come from property to be
realised in New York, and had named a day which had seemed to Sir Griffin to be as the Greek
Kalends. He expressed an opinion that he was swindled, and Mrs. Carbuncle, unable to restrain
herself, had turned upon him full of wrath. He was caught by Lizzie as he was descending the
stairs, and in the dining-room he poured out the tale of his wrongs. "That woman doesn't know
what fair dealing means," said he.

"That's a little hard, Sir Griffin, isn't it?" said Lizzie.

"Not a bit. A trumpery six hundred pounds! And she hasn't a shilling of fortune, and never
will have, beyond that! No fellow ever was more generous or more foolish than I have been."
Lizzie, as she heard this, could not refrain from thinking of the poor departed Sir Florian.
"I didn't look for fortune, or say a word about money, as almost every man does,--but just
took her as she was. And now she tells me that I can't have just the bit of money that I wanted
for our tour. It would serve them both right if I were to give it up."

"Why don't you?" said Lizzie. He looked quickly, sharply, and closely into her face as she
asked the question. "I would, if I thought as you do."

"And lay myself in for all manner of damages," said Sir Griffin.

"There wouldn't be anything of that kind, I'm sure. You see, the truth is, you and Miss Roanoke
are always having--having little tiffs together. I sometimes think you don't really care a
bit for her."

"It's the old woman I'm complaining of," said Sir Griffin, "and I'm not going to marry her.
I shall have seen the last of her when I get out of the church, Lady Eustace."

"Do you think she wishes it?"

"Who do you mean?" asked Sir Griffin.

"Why;--Lucinda."

"Of course she does. Where'd she be now if it wasn't to go on? I don't believe they've money
enough between them to pay the rent of the house they're living in."

"Of course, I don't want to make difficulties, Sir Griffin, and no doubt the affair has gone
very far now. But I really think Lucinda would consent to break it off if you wish it. I have
never thought that you were really in love with her."

He again looked at her very sharply and very closely. "Has she sent you to say all this?"

"Has who sent me? Mrs. Carbuncle didn't."

"But Lucinda?"

She paused for a moment before she replied;--but she could not bring herself to be absolutely
honest in the matter. "No;--she didn't send me. But from what I see and hear, I am quite sure
she does not wish to go on with it."

"Then she shall go on with it," said Sir Griffin. "I'm not going to be made a fool of in that
way. She shall go on with it; and the first thing I mean to tell her as my wife is, that she
shall never see that woman again. If she thinks she's going to be master, she's very much mistaken."
Sir Griffin, as he said this, showed his teeth, and declared his purpose to be masterful by
his features as well as by his words;--but Lady Eustace was, nevertheless, of opinion that
when the two came to an absolute struggle for mastery, the lady would get the better of it.

Lizzie never told Miss Roanoke of her want of success, or even of the effort she had made;
nor did the unhappy young woman come to her for any reply. The preparations went on, and it
was quite understood that on this peculiar occasion Mrs. Carbuncle intended to treat her friends
with profuse hospitality. She proposed to give a breakfast; and as the house in Hertford Street
was very small, rooms had been taken at an hotel in Albemarle Street. Thither, as the day of
the marriage drew near, all the presents were taken,--so that they might be viewed by the guests,
with the names of the donors attached to them. As some of the money given had been very much
wanted indeed, so that the actual cheques could not be conveniently spared just at the moment
to pay for the presents which ought to have been bought,--a few very pretty things were hired,
as to which, when the donors should see their names attached to them, they should surely think
that the money given had been laid out to great advantage.

CHAPTER LXVII

The Eye of the Public

It took Lord Fawn a long time to write his letter, but at last he wrote it. The delay must
not be taken as throwing any slur on his character as a correspondent or a man of business,
for many irritating causes sprang up sufficient to justify him in pleading that it arose from
circumstances beyond his own control. It is, moreover, felt by us all that the time which may
fairly be taken in the performance of any task depends, not on the amount of work, but on the
performance of it when done. A man is not expected to write a cheque for a couple of thousand
pounds as readily as he would one for five,--unless he be a man to whom a couple of thousand
pounds is a mere nothing. To Lord Fawn the writing of this letter was everything. He had told
Lizzie, with much exactness, what he would put into it. He would again offer his hand,--acknowledging
himself bound to do so by his former offer,--but would give reasons why she should not accept
it. If anything should occur in the meantime which would, in his opinion, justify him in again
repudiating her, he would of course take advantage of such circumstance. If asked himself what
was his prevailing motive in all that he did or intended to do, he would have declared that
it was above all things necessary that he should "put himself right in the eye of the British
public."

But he was not able to do this without interference from the judgment of others. Both Mr. and
Mrs. Hittaway interfered; and he could not prevent himself from listening to them and believing
them, though he would contradict all they said, and snub all their theories. Frank Greystock
also continued to interfere, and Lady Glencora Palliser. Even John Eustace had been worked
upon to write to Lord Fawn, stating his opinion, as trustee for his late brother's property,
that the Eustace family did not think that there was ground of complaint against Lady Eustace
in reference to the diamonds which had been stolen. This was a terrible blow to Lord Fawn,
and had come, no doubt, from a general agreement among the Eustace faction,--including the
bishop, John Eustace, and even Mr. Camperdown,--that it would be a good thing to get the widow
married and placed under some decent control.

Lady Glencora absolutely had the effrontery to ask him whether the marriage was not going to
take place, and when a day would be fixed. He gathered up his courage to give her ladyship
a rebuke. "My private affairs do seem to be uncommonly interesting," he said.

"Why, yes, Lord Fawn," said Lady Glencora, whom nothing could abash;--"most interesting. You
see, dear Lady Eustace is so very popular, that we all want to know what is to be her fate."

"I regret to say that I cannot answer your ladyship's question with any precision," said Lord Fawn.

But the Hittaway persecution was by far the worst. "You have seen her, Frederic?" said his sister.

"Yes,--I have."

"You have made her no promise?"

"My dear Clara, this is a matter in which I must use my own judgment."

"But the family, Frederic?"

"I do not think that any member of our family has a just right to complain of my conduct since
I have had the honour of being its head. I have endeavoured so to live that my actions should
encounter no private or public censure. If I fail to meet with your approbation, I shall grieve;
but I cannot on that account act otherwise than in accordance with my own judgment."

Mrs. Hittaway knew her brother well, and was not afraid of him. "That's all very well; and
I am sure you know, Frederic, how proud we all are of you. But this woman is a nasty, low,
scheming, ill-conducted, dishonest little wretch; and if you make her your wife you'll be miserable
all your life. Nothing would make me and Orlando so unhappy as to quarrel with you. But we
know that it is so, and to the last minute I shall say so. Why don't you ask her to her face
about that man down in Scotland?"

"My dear Clara, perhaps I know what to ask her and what not to ask her better than you can
tell me."

And his brother-in-law was quite as bad. "Fawn," he said, "in this matter of Lady Eustace,
don't you think you ought to put your conduct into the hands of some friend?"

"What do you mean by that?"

"I think it is an affair in which a man would have so much comfort in being able to say that
he was guided by advice. Of course, her people want you to marry her. Now, if you could just
tell them that the whole thing was in the hands of,--say me,--or any other friend, you would
be relieved, you know, of so much responsibility. They might hammer away at me ever so long,
and I shouldn't care twopence."

"If there is to be any hammering, it cannot be borne vicariously," said Lord Fawn,--and as
he said it, he was quite pleased by his own sharpness and wit.

He had, indeed, put himself beyond protection by vicarious endurance of hammering when he promised
to write to Lady Eustace, explaining his own conduct and giving reasons. Had anything turned
up in Scotland Yard which would have justified him in saying,--or even in thinking,--that Lizzie
had stolen her own diamonds, he would have sent word to her that he must abstain from any communication
till that matter had been cleared up; but since the appearance of that mysterious paragraph
in the newspapers, nothing had been heard of the robbery, and public opinion certainly seemed
to be in favour of Lizzie's innocence. He did think that the Eustace faction was betraying
him, as he could not but remember how eager Mr. Camperdown had been in asserting that the widow
was keeping an enormous amount of property and claiming it as her own, whereas, in truth, she
had not the slightest title to it. It was, in a great measure, in consequence of the assertions
of the Eustace faction, almost in obedience to their advice, that he had resolved to break
off the match; and now they turned upon him, and John Eustace absolutely went out of his way
to write him a letter which was clearly meant to imply that he, Lord Fawn, was bound to marry
the woman to whom he had once engaged himself! Lord Fawn felt that he was ill-used, and that
a man might have to undergo a great deal of bad treatment who should strive to put himself
right in the eye of the public.

At last he wrote his letter,--on a Wednesday, which with him had something of the comfort of
a half-holiday, as on that day he was not required to attend Parliament.

   India Office, 28th March, 18--.

   MY DEAR LADY EUSTACE,

   In accordance with the promise which I made to you when
   I did myself the honour of waiting upon you in Hertford
   Street, I take up my pen with the view of communicating
   to you the result of my deliberations respecting the
   engagement of marriage which, no doubt, did exist between
   us last summer.

   Since that time I have no doubt taken upon myself to say
   that that engagement was over; and I am free to admit that
   I did so without any assent or agreement on your part to
   that effect. Such conduct no doubt requires a valid and
   strong defence. My defence is as follows:--

   I learned that you were in possession of a large amount
   of property, vested in diamonds, which was claimed by the
   executors under your late husband's will as belonging to
   his estate; and as to which they declared, in the most
   positive manner, that you had no right or title to it
   whatever. I consulted friends and I consulted lawyers, and
   I was led to the conviction that this property certainly
   did not belong to you. Had I married you in these
   circumstances, I could not but have become a participator
   in the lawsuit which I was assured would be commenced. I
   could not be a participator with you, because I believed
   you to be in the wrong. And I certainly could not
   participate with those who would in such case be attacking
   my own wife.

   In this condition of things I requested you,--as you
   must, I think, yourself own, with all deference and
   good feeling,--to give up the actual possession of
   the property, and to place the diamonds in neutral
   hands,--[Lord Fawn was often called upon to be neutral
   in reference to the condition of outlying Indian
   principalities]--till the law should have decided as to
   their ownership. As regards myself, I neither coveted nor
   rejected the possession of that wealth for my future wife.
   I desired simply to be free from an embarrassment which
   would have overwhelmed me. You declined my request,--not
   only positively, but perhaps I may add peremptorily;
   and then I was bound to adhere to the decision I had
   communicated to you.

   Since that time the property has been stolen and, as I
   believe, dissipated. The lawsuit against you has been
   withdrawn; and the bone of contention, so to say, is no
   longer existing. I am no longer justified in declining
   to keep my engagement because of the prejudice to which
   I should have been subjected by your possession of the
   diamonds;--and, therefore, as far as that goes, I withdraw
   my withdrawal. [This Lord Fawn thought was rather a happy
   phrase, and he read it aloud to himself more than once.]

   But now there arises the question whether, in both our
   interests, this marriage should go on, or whether it may
   not be more conducive to your happiness and to mine that
   it should be annulled for causes altogether irrespective
   of the diamonds. In a matter so serious as marriage, the
   happiness of the two parties is that which requires graver
   thought than any other consideration.

   There has no doubt sprung up between us a feeling of
   mutual distrust, which has led to recrimination, and which
   is hardly compatible with that perfect confidence which
   should exist between a man and his wife. This first arose,
   no doubt, from the different views which we took as to
   that property of which I have spoken,--and as to which
   your judgment may possibly have been better than mine. On
   that head I will add nothing to what I have already said;
   but the feeling has arisen; and I fear it cannot be so
   perfectly allayed as to admit of that reciprocal trust
   without which we could not live happily together. I
   confess that for my own part I do not now desire a union
   which was once the great object of my ambition,--and that
   I could not go to the altar with you without fear and
   trembling. As to your own feelings, you best know what
   they are. I bring no charge against you;--but if you have
   ceased to love me, I think you should cease to wish to be
   my wife, and that you should not insist upon a marriage
   simply because by doing so you would triumph over a former
   objection.

Before he finished this paragraph, he thought much of Andy Gowran and of the scene among the
rocks of which he had heard. But he could not speak of it. He had found himself unable to examine
the witness who had been brought to him, and had honestly told himself that he could not take
that charge as proved. Andy Gowran might have lied. In his heart he believed that Andy Gowran
had lied. The matter was distasteful to him, and he would not touch it. And yet he knew that
the woman did not love him, and he longed to tell her so.

   As to what we might each gain or each lose in a worldly
   point of view, either by marrying or not marrying, I will
   not say a word. You have rank and wealth, and therefore I
   can comfort myself by thinking that if I dissuade you from
   this marriage I shall rob you of neither. I acknowledge
   that I wish to dissuade you, as I believe that we should
   not make each other happy. As, however, I do consider that
   I am bound to keep my engagement to you if you demand
   that I shall do so, I leave the matter in your hands for
   decision.

   I am, and shall remain,

   Your sincere friend,

   FAWN.

He read the letter and copied it, and gave himself great credit for the composition. He thought
that it was impossible that any woman after reading it should express a wish to become the
wife of the man who wrote it; and yet,--so he believed,--no man or woman could find fault with
him for writing it. There certainly was one view of the case which was very distressing. How
would it be with him if, after all, she should say that she would marry him? After having given
her her choice,--having put it all in writing,--he could not again go back from it. He would
be in her power, and of what use would his life be to him? Would Parliament, or the India Office,
or the eye of the public be able to comfort him then in the midst of his many miseries? What
could he do with a wife whom he married with a declaration that he disliked her? With such
feelings as were his, how could he stand before a clergyman and take an oath that he would
love her and cherish her? Would she not ever be as an adder to him,--as an adder whom it would
be impossible that he should admit into his bosom? Could he live in the same house with her;
and if so, could he ask his mother and sisters to visit her? He remembered well what Mrs. Hittaway
had called her;--a nasty, low, scheming, ill-conducted, dishonest little wretch! And he believed
that she was so! Yet he was once again offering to marry her, should she choose to accept him.

Nevertheless, the letter was sent. There was, in truth, no alternative. He had promised that
he would write such a letter, and all that had remained to him was the power of cramming into
it every available argument against the marriage. This he had done, and, as he thought, had
done well. It was impossible that she should desire to marry him after reading such a letter
as that!

Lizzie received it in her bedroom, where she breakfasted, and told of its arrival to her friend
Mrs. Carbuncle as soon as they met each other. "My lord has come down from his high horse at
last," she said, with the letter in her hand.

"What,--Lord Fawn?"

"Yes; Lord Fawn. What other lord? There is no other lord for me. He is my lord, my peer of
Parliament, my Cabinet minister, my right honourable, my member of the Government,--my young
man, too, as the maid-servants call them."

"What does he say?"

"Say;--what should he say?--just that he has behaved very badly, and that he hopes I shall
forgive him."

"Not quite that; does he?"

"That's what it all means. Of course, there is ever so much of it,--pages of it. It wouldn't
be Lord Fawn if he didn't spin it all out like an Act of Parliament, with 'whereas' and 'wherein,'
and 'whereof.' It is full of all that; but the meaning of it is that he's at my feet again,
and that I may pick him up if I choose to take him. I'd show you the letter, only perhaps it
wouldn't be fair to the poor man."

"What excuse does he make?"

"Oh,--as to that he's rational enough. He calls the necklace the--bone of contention. That's
rather good for Lord Fawn; isn't it? The bone of contention, he says, has been removed; and,
therefore, there is no reason why we shouldn't marry if we like it. He shall hear enough about
the bone of contention if we do 'marry.'"

"And what shall you do now?"

"Ah, yes; that's easily asked; is it not? The man's a good sort of man in his way, you know.
He doesn't drink or gamble; and I don't think there is a bit of the King David about him,--that
I don't."

"Virtue personified, I should say."

"And he isn't extravagant."

"Then why not have him and have done with it?" asked Mrs. Carbuncle.

"He is such a lumpy man," said Lizzie;--"such an ass; such a load of Government waste-paper."

"Come, my dear;--you've had troubles."

"I have, indeed," said Lizzie.

"And there's no quite knowing yet how far they're over."

"What do you mean by that, Mrs. Carbuncle?"

"Nothing very much;--but still, you see, they may come again. As to Lord George, we all know
that he has not got a penny-piece in the world that he can call his own."

"If he had as many pennies as Judas, Lord George would be nothing to me," said Lizzie.

"And your cousin really doesn't seem to mean anything."

"I know very well what my cousin means. He and I understand each other thoroughly; but cousins
can love one another very well without marrying."

"Of course you know your own business, but if I were you I would take Lord Fawn. I speak in
true kindness,--as one woman to another. After all, what does love signify? How much real love
do we ever see among married people? Does Lady Glencora Palliser really love her husband, who
thinks of nothing in the world but putting taxes on and off?"

"Do you love your husband, Mrs. Carbuncle?"

"No;--but that is a different kind of thing. Circumstances have caused me to live apart from
him. The man is a good man, and there is no reason why you should not respect him, and treat
him well. He will give you a fixed position,--which really you want badly, Lady Eustace."

"Tooriloo, tooriloo, tooriloo, looriloo," said Lizzie, in contemptuous disdain of her friend's
caution.

"And then all this trouble about the diamonds and the robberies will be over," continued Mrs.
Carbuncle. Lizzie looked at her very intently. What should make Mrs. Carbuncle suppose that
there need be, or, indeed, could be, any further trouble about the diamonds?

"So;--that's your advice," said Lizzie. "I'm half inclined to take it, and perhaps I shall.
However, I have brought him round, and that's something, my dear. And either one way or the
other, I shall let him know that I like my triumph. I was determined to have it, and I've got it."

Then she read the letter again very seriously. Could she possibly marry a man who in so many
words told her that he didn't want her? Well;--she thought she could. Was not everybody treating
everybody else much in the same way? Had she not loved her Corsair truly,--and how had he treated
her? Had she not been true, disinterested, and most affectionate to Frank Greystock; and what
had she got from him? To manage her business wisely, and put herself upon firm ground;--that
was her duty at present. Mrs. Carbuncle was right there. The very name of Lady Fawn would be
a rock to her,--and she wanted a rock. She thought upon the whole that she could marry him;--unless
Patience Crabstick and the police should again interfere with her prosperity.

CHAPTER LXVIII

The Major

Lady Eustace did not intend to take as much time in answering Lord Fawn's letter as he had
taken in writing it; but even she found that the subject was one which demanded a good deal
of thought. Mrs. Carbuncle had very freely recommended her to take the man, supporting her
advice by arguments which Lizzie felt to be valid; but then Mrs. Carbuncle did not know all
the circumstances. Mrs. Carbuncle had not actually seen his lordship's letter; and though the
great part of the letter, the formal repetition, namely, of the writer's offer of marriage,
had been truly told to her, still, as the reader will have perceived, she had been kept in
the dark as to some of the details. Lizzie did sit at her desk with the object of putting a
few words together in order that she might see how they looked, and she found that there was
a difficulty. "My dear Lord Fawn. As we have been engaged to marry each other, and as all our
friends have been told, I think that the thing had better go on." That, after various attempts,
was, she thought, the best letter that she could send,--if she should make up her mind to be
Lady Fawn. But, on the morning of the 30th of March she had not sent her letter. She had told
herself that she would take two days to think of her reply,--and, on the Friday morning the
few words she had prepared were still lying in her desk.

What was she to get by marrying a man she absolutely disliked? That he also absolutely disliked
her was not a matter much in her thoughts. The man would not ill-treat her because he disliked
her; or, it might perhaps be juster to say, that the ill-treatment which she might fairly anticipate
would not be of a nature which would much affect her comfort grievously. He would not beat
her, nor rob her, nor lock her up, nor starve her. He would either neglect her, or preach sermons
to her. For the first she could console herself by the attention of others; and should he preach,
perhaps she could preach too,--as sharply if not as lengthily as his lordship. At any rate,
she was not afraid of him. But what would she gain? It is very well to have a rock, as Mrs.
Carbuncle had said, but a rock is not everything. She did not know whether she cared much for
living upon a rock. Even stability may be purchased at too high a price. There was not a grain
of poetry in the whole composition of Lord Fawn, and poetry was what her very soul craved;--poetry,
together with houses, champagne, jewels, and admiration. Her income was still her own, and
she did not quite see that the rock was so absolutely necessary to her. Then she wrote another
note to Lord Fawn, a specimen of a note, so that she might have the opportunity of comparing
the two. This note took her much longer than the one first written.

   MY LORD,--

   I do not know how to acknowledge with sufficient humility
   the condescension and great kindness of your lordship's
   letter. But perhaps its manly generosity is more
   conspicuous than either. The truth is, my lord, you want
   to escape from your engagement, but are too much afraid
   of the consequences to dare to do so by any act of your
   own;--therefore you throw it upon me. You are quite
   successful. I don't think you ever read poetry, but
   perhaps you may understand the two following lines:--

      "I am constrained to say, your lordship's scullion
       Should sooner be my husband than yourself."

   I see through you, and despise you thoroughly.

   E. EUSTACE.

She was comparing the two answers together, very much in doubt as to which should be sent,
when there came a message to her by a man whom she knew to be a policeman, though he did not
announce himself as such, and was dressed in plain clothes. Major Mackintosh sent his compliments
to her, and would wait upon her that afternoon at three o'clock, if she would have the kindness
to receive him. At the first moment of seeing the man she felt that after all the rock was
what she wanted. Mrs. Carbuncle was right. She had had troubles and might have more, and the
rock was the thing. But then the more certainly did she become convinced of this by the presence
of the major's messenger, the more clearly did she see the difficulty of attaining the security
which the rock offered. If this public exposure should fall upon her, Lord Fawn's renewed offer,
as she knew well, would stand for nothing. If once it were known that she had kept the necklace,--her
own necklace,--under her pillow at Carlisle, he would want no further justification in repudiating
her, were it for the tenth time.

She was very uncivil to the messenger, and the more so because she found that the man bore
her rudeness without turning upon her and rending her. When she declared that the police had
behaved very badly, and that Major Mackintosh was inexcusable in troubling her again, and that
she had ceased to care twopence about the necklace,--the man made no remonstrance to her petulance.
He owned that the trouble was very great, and the police very inefficient. He almost owned
that the major was inexcusable. He did not care what he owned so that he achieved his object.
But when Lizzie said that she could not see Major Mackintosh at three, and objected equally
to two, four, or five; then the courteous messenger from Scotland Yard did say a word to make
her understand that there must be a meeting,--and he hinted also that the major was doing a
most unusually good-natured thing in coming to Hertford Street. Of course, Lizzie made the
appointment. If the major chose to come, she would be at home at three.

As soon as the policeman was gone, she sat alone, with a manner very much changed from that
which she had worn since the arrival of Lord Fawn's letter,--with a fresh weight of care upon
her, greater perhaps than she had ever hitherto borne. She had had bad moments,--when, for
instance, she had been taken before the magistrates at Carlisle, when she found the police
in her house on her return from the theatre, and when Lord George had forced her secret from
her. But at each of these periods hope had come renewed before despair had crushed her. Now
it seemed to her that the thing was done and that the game was over. This chief man of the
London police no doubt knew the whole story. If she could only already have climbed upon some
rock, so that there might be a man bound to defend her,--a man at any rate bound to put himself
forward on her behalf and do whatever might be done in her defence,--she might have endured it!

What should she do now,--at this minute? She looked at her watch and found that it was already
past one. Mrs. Carbuncle, as she knew, was closeted up-stairs with Lucinda, whose wedding was
fixed for the following Monday. It was now Friday. Were she to call upon Mrs. Carbuncle for
aid, no aid would be forthcoming unless she were to tell the whole truth. She almost thought
that she would do so. But then, how great would have been her indiscretion if, after all, when
the major should come, she should discover that he did not know the truth himself! That Mrs.
Carbuncle would keep her secret she did not for a moment think. She longed for the comfort
of some friend's counsel, but she found at last that she could not purchase it by telling everything
to a woman.

Might it not be possible that she should still run away? She did not know much of the law,
but she thought that they could not punish her for breaking an appointment even with a man
so high in authority as Major Mackintosh. She could leave a note saying that pressing business
called her out. But whither should she go? She thought of taking a cab to the House of Commons,
finding her cousin, and telling him everything. It would be so much better that he should see
the major. But then again, it might be that she should be mistaken as to the amount of the
major's information. After a while she almost determined to fly off at once to Scotland, leaving
word that she was obliged to go instantly to her child. But there was no direct train to Scotland
before eight or nine in the evening, and during the intervening hours the police would have
ample time to find her. What, indeed, could she do with herself during these intervening hours?
Ah, if she had but a rock now, so that she need not be dependent altogether on the exercise
of her own intellect!

Gradually the minutes passed by, and she became aware that she must face the major. Well! What
had she done? She had stolen nothing. She had taken no person's property. She had, indeed,
been wickedly robbed, and the police had done nothing to get back for her her property, as
they were bound to have done. She would take care to tell the major what she thought about
the negligence of the police. The major should not have the talk all to himself.

If it had not been for one word with which Lord George had stunned her ears, she could still
have borne it well. She had told a lie;--perhaps two or three lies. She knew that she had lied.
But then people lie every day. She would not have minded it much if she were simply to be called
a liar. But he had told her that she would be accused of--perjury. There was something frightful
to her in the name. And there were, she knew not what, dreadful penalties attached to it. Lord
George had told her that she might be put in prison,--whether he had said for years or for
months she had forgotten. And she thought she had heard of people's property being confiscated
to the Crown when they had been made out to be guilty of certain great offences. Oh, how she
wished that she had a rock!

When three o'clock came she had not started for Scotland or elsewhere, and at last she received
the major. Could she have thoroughly trusted the servant, she would have denied herself at
the last moment, but she feared that she might be betrayed, and she thought that her position
would be rendered even worse than it was at present by a futile attempt. She was sitting alone,
pale, haggard, trembling, when Major Mackintosh was shown into her room. It may be as well
explained at once that, at this moment, the major knew, or thought that he knew, every circumstance
of the two robberies, and that his surmises were in every respect right. Miss Crabstick and
Mr. Cann were in comfortable quarters, and were prepared to tell all that they could tell.
Mr. Smiler was in durance, and Mr. Benjamin was at Vienna, in the hands of the Austrian police,
who were prepared to give him up to those who desired his society in England, on the completion
of certain legal formalities. That Mr. Benjamin and Mr. Smiler would be prosecuted, the latter
for the robbery and the former for conspiracy to rob, and for receiving stolen goods, was a
matter of course. But what was to be done with Lady Eustace? That, at the present moment, was
the prevailing trouble with the police. During the last three weeks every precaution had been
taken to keep the matter secret, and it is hardly too much to say that Lizzie's interests were
handled not only with consideration but with tenderness.

"Lady Eustace," said the major, "I am very sorry to trouble you. No doubt the man who called
on you this morning explained to you who I am."

"Oh yes, I know who you are,--quite well." Lizzie made a great effort to speak without betraying
her consternation; but she was nearly prostrated. The major, however, hardly observed her,
and was by no means at ease himself in his effort to save her from unnecessary annoyance. He
was a tall, thin, gaunt man of about forty, with large, good-natured eyes;--but it was not
till the interview was half over that Lizzie took courage to look even into his face.

"Just so; I am come, you know, about the robbery which took place here,--and the other robbery
at Carlisle."

"I have been so troubled about these horrid robberies! Sometimes I think they'll be the death
of me."

"I think, Lady Eustace, we have found out the whole truth."

"Oh, I daresay. I wonder why--you have been so long--finding it out."

"We have had very clever people to deal with, Lady Eustace;--and I fear that, even now, we
shall never get back the property."

"I do not care about the property, sir;--although it was all my own. Nobody has lost anything
but myself; and I really don't see why the thing should not die out, as I don't care about
it. Whoever it is, they may have it now."

"We were bound to get to the bottom of it all, if we could; and I think that we have,--at last.
Perhaps, as you say, we ought to have done it sooner."

"Oh,--I don't care."

"We have two persons in custody, Lady Eustace, whom we shall use as witnesses, and I am afraid
we shall have to call upon you also,--as a witness." It occurred to Lizzie that they could
not lock her up in prison and make her a witness too, but she said nothing. Then the major
continued his speech,--and asked her the question which was, in fact, alone material. "Of course,
Lady Eustace, you are not bound to say anything to me unless you like it,--and you must understand
that I by no means wish you to criminate yourself."

"I don't know what that means."

"If you yourself have done anything wrong, I don't want to ask you to confess it."

"I have had all my diamonds stolen, if you mean that. Perhaps it was wrong to have diamonds."

"But to come to my question,--I suppose we may take it for granted that the diamonds were in
your desk when the thieves made their entrance into this house, and broke the desk open, and
stole the money out of it?" Lizzie breathed so hardly, that she was quite unable to speak.
The man's voice was very gentle and very kind,--but then how could she admit that one fact?
All depended on that one fact. "The woman Crabstick," said the major, "has confessed, and will
state on her oath that she saw the necklace in your hands in Hertford Street, and that she
saw it placed in the desk. She then gave information of this to Benjamin,--as she had before
given information as to your journey up from Scotland,--and she was introduced to the two men
whom she let into the house. One of them, indeed, who will also give evidence for us, she had
before met at Carlisle. She then was present when the necklace was taken out of the desk. The
man who opened the desk and took it out, who also cut the door at Carlisle, will give evidence
to the same effect. The man who carried the necklace out of the house, and who broke open the
box at Carlisle, will be tried,--as will also Benjamin, who disposed of the diamonds. I have
told you the whole story, as it has been told to me by the woman Crabstick. Of course, you
will deny the truth of it, if it be untrue." Lizzie sat with her eyes fixed upon the floor,
but said nothing. She could not speak. "If you will allow me, Lady Eustace, to give you advice,--really
friendly advice--"

"Oh, pray do."

"You had better admit the truth of the story, if it is true."

"They were my own," she whispered.

"Or, at any rate, you believed that they were. There can be no doubt, I think, as to that.
No one supposes that the robbery at Carlisle was arranged on your behalf."

"Oh, no."

"But you had taken them out of the box before you went to bed at the inn?"

"Not then."

"But you had taken them?"

"I did it in the morning before I started from Scotland. They frightened me by saying the box
would be stolen."

"Exactly;--and then you put them into your desk here, in this house?"

"Yes,--sir."

"I should tell you, Lady Eustace, that I had not a doubt about this before I came here. For
some time past I have thought that it must be so; and latterly the confessions of two of the
accomplices have made it certain to me. One of the housebreakers and the jeweller will be tried
for the felony, and I am afraid that you must undergo the annoyance of being one of the witnesses."

"What will they do to me, Major Mackintosh?" Lizzie now for the first time looked up into his
eyes, and felt that they were kind. Could he be her rock? He did not speak to her like an enemy;--and
then, too, he would know better than any man alive how she might best escape from her trouble.

"They will ask you to tell the truth."

"Indeed I will do that," said Lizzie,--not aware that, after so many lies, it might be difficult
to tell the truth.

"And you will probably be asked to repeat it, this way and that, in a manner that will be troublesome
to you. You see that here in London, and at Carlisle, you have--given incorrect versions."

"I know I have. But the necklace was my own. There was nothing dishonest;--was there, Major
Mackintosh? When they came to me at Carlisle I was so confused that I hardly knew what to tell
them. And when I had once--given an incorrect version, you know, I didn't know how to go back."

The major was not so well acquainted with Lizzie as is the reader, and he pitied her. "I can
understand all that," he said.

How much kinder he was than Lord George had been when she confessed the truth to him. Here
would be a rock! And such a handsome man as he was, too,--not exactly a Corsair, as he was
great in authority over the London police,--but a powerful, fine fellow, who would know what
to do with swords and pistols as well as any Corsair;--and one, too, no doubt, who would understand
poetry! Any such dream, however, was altogether unavailing, as the major had a wife at home
and seven children. "If you will only tell me what to do, I will do it," she said, looking
up into his face with entreaty, and pressing her hands together in supplication.

Then at great length, and with much patience, he explained to her what he would have her do.
He thought that, if she were summoned and used as a witness, there would be no attempt to prosecute
her for the--incorrect versions--of which she had undoubtedly been guilty. The probability
was, that she would receive assurance to this effect before she would be asked to give her
evidence, preparatory to the committal of Benjamin and Smiler. He could not assure her that
it would be so, but he had no doubt of it. In order, however, that things might be made to
run as smooth as possible, he recommended her very strongly to go at once to Mr. Camperdown
and make a clean breast of it to him. "The whole family should be told," said the major, "and
it will be better for you that they should know it from yourself than from us." When she hesitated,
he explained to her that the matter could no longer be kept as a secret, and that her evidence
would certainly appear in the papers. He proposed that she should be summoned for that day
week,--which would be the Friday after Lucinda's marriage, and he suggested that she should
go to Mr. Camperdown's on the morrow. "What!--to-morrow?" exclaimed Lizzie, in dismay.

"My dear Lady Eustace," said the major, "the sooner you get back into straight running, the
sooner you will be comfortable." Then she promised that she would go on the Tuesday,--the day
after the marriage. "If he learns it in the meantime, you must not be surprised," said the major.

"Tell me one thing, Major Mackintosh," she said, as she gave him her hand at parting,--"they
can't take away from me anything that is my own;--can they?"

"I don't think they can," said the major, escaping rather quickly from the room.

CHAPTER LXIX

"I Cannot Do It"

The Saturday and the Sunday Lizzie passed in outward tranquillity, though doubtless her mind
was greatly disturbed. She said nothing of what had passed between her and Major Mackintosh,
explaining that his visit had been made solely with the object of informing her that Mr. Benjamin
was to be sent home from Vienna, but that the diamonds were gone for ever. She had, as she
declared to herself, agreed with Major Mackintosh that she would not go to Mr. Camperdown till
the Tuesday,--justifying her delay by her solicitude in reference to Miss Roanoke's marriage;
and therefore these two days were her own. After them would come a totally altered phase of
existence. All the world would know the history of the diamonds,--cousin Frank, and Lord Fawn,
and John Eustace, and Mrs. Carbuncle, and the Bobsborough people, and Lady Glencora, and that
old vulturess, her aunt, the Countess of Linlithgow. It must come now;--but she had two days
in which she could be quiet and think of her position. She would, she thought, send one of
her letters to Lord Fawn before she went to Mr. Camperdown;--but which should she send? Or
should she write a third explaining the whole matter in sweetly piteous feminine terms, and
swearing that the only remaining feeling in her bosom was a devoted affection to the man who
had now twice promised to be her husband?

In the meantime the preparations for the great marriage went on. Mrs. Carbuncle spent her time
busily between Lucinda's bedchamber and the banqueting hall in Albemarle Street. In spite of
pecuniary difficulties the trousseau was to be a wonder; and even Lizzie was astonished at
the jewellery which that indefatigable woman had collected together for a preliminary show
in Hertford Street. She had spent hours at Howell and James's, and had made marvellous bargains
there and elsewhere. Things were sent for selection, of which the greater portion were to be
returned, but all were kept for the show. The same things which were shown to separate friends
in Hertford Street as part of the trousseau on Friday and Saturday were carried over to Albemarle
Street on the Sunday, so as to add to the quasi-public exhibition of presents on the Monday.
The money expended had gone very far. The most had been made of a failing credit. Every particle
of friendly generosity had been so manipulated as to add to the external magnificence. And
Mrs. Carbuncle had done all this without any help from Lucinda,--in the midst of most contemptuous
indifference on Lucinda's part. She could hardly be got to allow the milliners to fit the dresses
to her body, and positively refused to thrust her feet into certain golden-heeled boots with
brightly-bronzed toes, which were a great feature among the raiment. Nobody knew it except
Mrs. Carbuncle and the maid,--even Lizzie Eustace did not know it;--but once the bride absolutely
ran amuck among the finery, scattering the laces here and there, pitching the glove-boxes under
the bed, chucking the golden-heeled boots into the fire-place, and exhibiting quite a tempest
of fury against one of the finest shows of petticoats ever arranged with a view to the admiration
and envy of female friends. But all this Mrs. Carbuncle bore, and still persevered. The thing
was so nearly done now that she could endure to persevere though the provocation to abandon
it was so great. She had even ceased to find fault with her niece,--but went on in silence
counting the hours till the trouble should be taken off her own shoulders and placed on those
of Sir Griffin. It was a great thing to her, almost more than she had expected, that neither
Lucinda nor Sir Griffin should have positively declined the marriage. It was impossible that
either should retreat from it now.

Luckily for Mrs. Carbuncle, Sir Griffin took delight in the show. He did this after a bearish
fashion, putting his finger upon little flaws with an intelligence for which Mrs. Carbuncle
had not hitherto given him credit. As to certain ornaments, he observed that the silver was
plated and the gold ormolu. A "rope" of pearls he at once detected as being false,--and after
fingering certain lace he turned up his nose and shook his head. Then, on the Sunday, in Albemarle
Street, he pointed out to Mrs. Carbuncle sundry articles which he had seen in the bedroom on
the Saturday. "But, my dear Sir Griffin,--that's of course," said Mrs. Carbuncle. "Oh;--that's
of course, is it?" said Sir Griffin, turning up his nose again. "Where did that Delph bowl
come from?" "It is one of Mortlock's finest Etruscan vases," said Mrs. Carbuncle. "Oh,--I thought
that Etruscan vases came from--from somewhere in Greece or Italy," said Sir Griffin. "I declare
that you are shocking," said Mrs. Carbuncle, struggling to maintain her good humour.

He passed hours of the Sunday in Hertford Street, and Lord George also was there for some time.
Lizzie, who could hardly devote her mind to the affairs of the wedding, remained alone in her
own sitting-room during the greater part of the day;--but she did show herself while Lord George
was there. "So I hear that Mackintosh has been here," said Lord George.

"Yes,--he was here."

"And what did he say?" Lizzie did not like the way in which the man looked at her, feeling
it to be not only unfriendly, but absolutely cruel. It seemed to imply that he knew that her
secret was about to be divulged. And what was he to her now that he should be impertinent to
her? What he knew, all the world would know before the end of the week. And that other man
who knew it already, had been kind to her, had said nothing about perjury, but had explained
to her that what she would have to bear would be trouble, and not imprisonment and loss of
money. Lord George, to whom she had been so civil, for whom she had spent money, to whom she
had almost offered herself and all that she possessed,--Lord George, whom she had selected
as the first repository of her secret, had spoken no word to comfort her, but had made things
look worse for her than they were. Why should she submit to be questioned by Lord George? In
a day or two the secret which he knew would be no secret. "Never mind what he said, Lord George,"
she replied.

"Has he found it all out?"

"You had better go and ask himself," said Lizzie. "I am sick of the subject, and I mean to
have done with it."

Lord George laughed, and Lizzie hated him for his laugh.

"I declare," said Mrs. Carbuncle, "that you two who were such friends are always snapping at
each other now."

"The fickleness is all on her ladyship's part,--not on mine," said Lord George; whereupon Lady
Eustace walked out of the room and was not seen again till dinner-time.

Soon afterwards Lucinda also endeavoured to escape, but to this Sir Griffin objected. Sir Griffin
was in a very good humour, and bore himself like a prosperous bridegroom. "Come, Luce," he
said, "get off your high horse for a little. To-morrow, you know, you must come down altogether."

"So much the more reason for my remaining up to-day."

"I'll be shot if you shall," said Sir Griffin. "Luce, sit in my lap, and give me a kiss."

At this moment Lord George and Mrs. Carbuncle were in the front drawing-room, and Lord George
was telling her the true story as to the necklace. It must be explained on his behalf that
in doing this he did not consider that he was betraying the trust reposed in him. "They know
all about it in Scotland Yard," he said; "I got it from Gager. They were bound to tell me,
as up to this week past every man in the police thought that I had been the master-mind among
the thieves. When I think of it I hardly know whether to laugh or cry."

"And she had them all the time?" exclaimed Mrs. Carbuncle.

"Yes;--in this house! Did you ever hear of such a little cat? I could tell you more than that.
She wanted me to take them and dispose of them."

"No!"

"She did though;--and now see the way she treats me! Never mind. Don't say a word to her about
it till it comes out of itself. She'll have to be arrested, no doubt."

"Arrested!" Mrs. Carbuncle's further exclamations were stopped by Lucinda's struggles in the
other room. She had declined to sit upon the bridegroom's lap, but had acknowledged that she
was bound to submit to be kissed. He had kissed her, and then had striven to drag her on to
his knee. But she was strong, and had resisted violently, and, as he afterwards said, had struck
him savagely. "Of course I struck him," said Lucinda.

"By ----, you shall pay for it!" said Sir Griffin. This took place in the presence of Lord
George and Mrs. Carbuncle, and yet they were to be married to-morrow.

"The idea of complaining that a girl hit you,--and the girl who is to be your wife!" said Lord
George, as they walked off together.

"I know what to complain of, and what not," said Sir Griffin. "Are you going to let me have
that money?"

"No;--I am not," said Lord George,--"so there's an end of that." Nevertheless, they dined together
at their club afterwards, and in the evening Sir Griffin was again in Hertford Street.

This happened on the Sunday, on which day none of the ladies had gone to church. Mr. Emilius
well understood the cause of their absence, and felt nothing of a parson's anger at it. He
was to marry the couple on the Monday morning, and dined with the ladies on the Sunday. He
was peculiarly gracious and smiling, and spoke of the Hymeneals as though they were even more
than ordinarily joyful and happy in their promise. To Lizzie he was almost affectionate, and
Mrs. Carbuncle he flattered to the top of her bent. The power of the man in being sprightly
under such a load of trouble as oppressed the household, was wonderful. He had to do with three
women who were worldly, hard, and given entirely to evil things. Even as regarded the bride,
who felt the horror of her position, so much must be in truth admitted. Though from day to
day and hour to hour she would openly declare her hatred of the things around her,--yet she
went on. Since she had entered upon life she had known nothing but falsehood and scheming wickedness;--and,
though she rebelled against the consequences, she had not rebelled against the wickedness.
Now to this unfortunate young woman and her two companions, Mr. Emilius discoursed with an
unctuous mixture of celestial and terrestrial glorification, which was proof, at any rate,
of great ability on his part. He told them how a good wife was a crown, or rather a chaplet
of aetherial roses to her husband, and how high rank and great station in the world made such
a chaplet more beautiful and more valuable. His work in the vineyard, he said, had fallen lately
among the wealthy and nobly born; and though he would not say that he was entitled to take
glory on that account, still he gave thanks daily in that he had been enabled to give his humble
assistance towards the running of a godly life to those who, by their example, were enabled
to have so wide an effect upon their poorer fellow-creatures. He knew well how difficult it
was for a camel to go through the eye of a needle. They had the highest possible authority
for that. But Scripture never said that the camel,--which, as he explained it, was simply a
thread larger than ordinary thread,--could not go through the needle's eye. The camel which
succeeded, in spite of the difficulties attending its exalted position, would be peculiarly
blessed. And he went on to suggest that the three ladies before him, one of whom was about
to enter upon a new phase of life to-morrow, under auspices peculiarly propitious, were, all
of them, camels of this description. Sir Griffin, when he came in, received for a while the
peculiar attention of Mr. Emilius. "I think, Sir Griffin," he commenced, "that no period of
a man's life is so blessed, as that upon which you will enter to-morrow." This he said in a
whisper, but it was a whisper audible to the ladies.

"Well;--yes; it's all right, I daresay," said Sir Griffin.

"Well, after all, what is life till a man has met and obtained the partner of his soul? It
is a blank,--and the blank becomes every day more and more intolerable to the miserable solitary."

"I wonder you don't get married yourself," said Mrs. Carbuncle, who perceived that Sir Griffin
was rather astray for an answer.

"Ah!--if one could always be fortunate when one loved!" said Mr. Emilius, casting his eyes
across to Lizzie Eustace. It was evident to them all that he did not wish to conceal his passion.

It was the object of Mrs. Carbuncle that the lovers should not be left alone together, but
that they should be made to think that they were passing the evening in affectionate intercourse.
Lucinda hardly spoke, hardly had spoken since her disagreeable struggle with Sir Griffin. He
said but little, but with Mrs. Carbuncle was better humoured than usual. Every now and then
she made little whispered communications to him, telling that they would be sure to be at the
church at eleven to the moment, explaining to him what would be the extent of Lucinda's boxes
for the wedding tour, and assuring him that he would find Lucinda's new maid a treasure in
regard to his own shirts and pocket-handkerchiefs. She toiled marvellously at little subjects,
always making some allusion to Lucinda, and never hinting that aught short of Elysium was in
store for him. The labour was great; the task was terrible; but now it was so nearly over!
And to Lizzie she was very courteous, never hinting by a word or a look that there was any
new trouble impending on the score of the diamonds. She, too, as she received the greasy compliments
of Mr. Emilius with pretty smiles, had her mind full enough of care.

At last Sir Griffin went, again kissing his bride as he left. Lucinda accepted his embrace
without a word and almost without a shudder. "Eleven to the moment, Sir Griffin," said Mrs.
Carbuncle, with her best good humour. "All right," said Sir Griffin as he passed out of the
door. Lucinda walked across the room, and kept her eyes fixed on his retreating figure as he
descended the stairs. Mr. Emilius had already departed, with many promises of punctuality,
and Lizzie now withdrew for the night. "Dear Lizzie, good night," said Mrs. Carbuncle, kissing her.

"Good night, Lady Eustace," said Lucinda. "I suppose I shall see you to-morrow?"

"See me!--of course you will see me. I shall come into your room with the girls, after you
have had your tea." The girls mentioned were the four bridesmaids, as to whom there had been
some difficulty, as Lucinda had neither sister nor cousins, and had contracted no peculiarly
tender friendships. But Mrs. Carbuncle had arranged it, and four properly-equipped young ladies
were to be in attendance at ten on the morrow.

Then Lucinda and Mrs. Carbuncle were alone. "Of one thing I feel sure," said Lucinda in a low
voice.

"What is that, dear?"

"I shall never see Sir Griffin Tewett again."

"You talk in that way on purpose to break me down at the last moment," said Mrs. Carbuncle.

"Dear Aunt Jane, I would not break you down if I could help it. I have struggled so hard,--simply
that you might be freed from me. We have been very foolish, both of us; but I would bear all
the punishment,--if I could."

"You know that this is nonsense now."

"Very well. I only tell you. I know that I shall never see him again. I will never trust myself
alone in his presence. I could not do it. When he touches me my whole body is in agony. To
be kissed by him is madness."

"Lucinda, this is very wicked. You are working yourself up to a paroxysm of folly."

"Wicked;--yes, I know that I am wicked. There has been enough of wickedness certainly. You
don't suppose that I mean to excuse myself?"

"Of course you will marry Sir Griffin to-morrow."

"I shall never be married to him. How I shall escape from him,--by dying, or going mad,--or
by destroying him, God only knows." Then she paused, and her aunt looking into her face almost
began to fear that she was in earnest. But she would not take it as at all indicating any real
result for the morrow. The girl had often said nearly the same thing before, and had still
submitted. "Do you know, Aunt Jane, I don't think I could feel to any man as though I loved
him. But for this man,-- Oh God, how I do detest him! I cannot do it."

"You had better go to bed, Lucinda, and let me come to you in the morning."

"Yes;--come to me in the morning;--early."

"I will,--at eight."

"I shall know then, perhaps."

"My dear, will you come to my room to-night, and sleep with me?"

"Oh, no. I have ever so many things to do. I have papers to burn, and things to put away. But
come to me at eight. Good night, Aunt Jane." Mrs. Carbuncle went up to her room with her, kissed
her affectionately, and then left her.

She was now really frightened. What would be said of her if she should press the marriage forward
to a completion, and if after that some terrible tragedy should take place between the bride
and bridegroom? That Lucinda, in spite of all that had been said, would stand at the altar,
and allow the ceremony to be performed, she still believed. Those last words about burning
papers and putting things away, seemed to imply that the girl still thought that she would
be taken away from her present home on the morrow. But what would come afterwards? The horror
which the bride expressed was, as Mrs. Carbuncle well knew, no mock feeling, no pretence at
antipathy. She tried to think of it, and to realise what might in truth be the girl's action
and ultimate fate when she should find herself in the power of this man whom she so hated.
But had not other girls done the same thing, and lived through it all, and become fat, indifferent,
and fond of the world? It is only the first step that signifies.

At any rate, the thing must go on now;--must go on, whatever might be the result to Lucinda
or to Mrs. Carbuncle herself. Yes; it must go on. There was, no doubt, very much of bitterness
in the world for such as them,--for persons doomed by the necessities of their position to
a continual struggle. It always had been so, and always would be so. But each bitter cup must
be drained in the hope that the next might be sweeter. Of course the marriage must go on; though,
doubtless, this cup was very bitter.

More than once in the night Mrs. Carbuncle crept up to the door of her niece's room, endeavouring
to ascertain what might be going on within. At two o'clock, while she was on the landing-place,
the candle was extinguished, and she could hear that Lucinda put herself to bed. At any rate,
so far, things were safe. An indistinct, incompleted idea of some possible tragedy had flitted
across the mind of the poor woman, causing her to shake and tremble, forbidding her, weary
as she was, to lie down;--but now she told herself at last that this was an idle phantasy,
and she went to bed. Of course Lucinda must go through with it. It had been her own doing,
and Sir Griffin was not worse than other men. As she said this to herself, Mrs. Carbuncle hardened
her heart by remembering that her own married life had not been peculiarly happy.

Exactly at eight on the following morning she knocked at her niece's door, and was at once
bidden to enter. "Come in, Aunt Jane." The words cheered her wonderfully. At any rate, there
had been no tragedy as yet, and as she turned the handle of the door, she felt that, as a matter
of course, the marriage would go on just like any other marriage. She found Lucinda up and
dressed,--but so dressed as certainly to show no preparation for a wedding-toilet. She had
on an ordinary stuff morning frock, and her hair was close tucked up and pinned, as it might
have been had she already prepared herself for a journey. But what astonished Mrs. Carbuncle
more than the dress was the girl's manner. She was sitting at a table with a book before her,
which was afterwards found to be the Bible, and she never turned her head as her aunt entered
the room. "What, up already," said Mrs. Carbuncle,--"and dressed?"

"Yes; I am up,--and dressed. I have been up ever so long. How was I to lie in bed on such a
morning as this? Aunt Jane, I wish you to know as soon as possible that no earthly consideration
will induce me to leave this room to-day."

"What nonsense, Lucinda!"

"Very well;--all the same you might as well believe me. I want you to send to Mr. Emilius,
and to those girls,--and to the man. And you had better get Lord George to let the other people
know. I'm quite in earnest."

And she was in earnest,--quite in earnest, though there was a flightiness about her manner
which induced Mrs. Carbuncle for awhile to think that she was less so than she had been on
the previous evening. The unfortunate woman remained with her niece for an hour and a half,
imploring, threatening, scolding, and weeping. When the maids came to the door, first one maid
and then another, they were refused entrance. It might still be possible, Mrs. Carbuncle thought,
that she would prevail. But nothing now could shake Lucinda or induce her even to discuss the
subject. She sat there looking steadfastly at the book,--hardly answering, never defending
herself, but protesting that nothing should induce her to leave the room on that day. "Do you
want to destroy me?" Mrs. Carbuncle said at last.

"You have destroyed me," said Lucinda.

At half-past nine Lizzie Eustace came to the room, and Mrs. Carbuncle, in her trouble, thought
it better to take other counsel. Lizzie, therefore, was admitted. "Is anything wrong?" asked
Lizzie.

"Everything is wrong," said the aunt. "She says that--she won't be married."

"Oh, Lucinda!"

"Pray speak to her, Lady Eustace. You see it is getting so late, and she ought to be nearly
dressed now. Of course she must allow herself to be dressed."

"I am dressed," said Lucinda.

"But, dear Lucinda,--everybody will be waiting for you," said Lizzie.

"Let them wait,--till they're tired. If Aunt Jane doesn't choose to send, it is not my fault.
I sha'n't go out of this room to-day unless I am carried out. Do you want to hear that I have
murdered the man?"

They brought her tea, and endeavoured to induce her to eat and drink. She would take the tea,
she said, if they would promise to send to put the people off. Mrs. Carbuncle so far gave way
as to undertake to do so, if she would name the next day or the day following for the wedding.
But on hearing this she arose almost in a majesty of wrath. Neither on this day, or on the
next, or on any following day, would she yield herself to the wretch whom they had endeavoured
to force upon her. "She must do it, you know," said Mrs. Carbuncle, turning to Lizzie. "You'll
see if I must," said Lucinda, sitting square at the table, with her eyes firmly fixed upon
the book.

Then came up the servant to say that the four bridesmaids were all assembled in the drawing-room.
When she heard this, even Mrs. Carbuncle gave way, and threw herself upon the bed and wept.
"Oh, Lady Eustace, what are we to do? Lucinda, you have destroyed me. You have destroyed me
altogether, after all that I have done for you."

"And what has been done to me, do you think?" said Lucinda.

Something must be settled. All the servants in the house by this time knew that there would
be no wedding, and no doubt some tidings as to the misadventure of the day had already reached
the four ladies in the drawing-room. "What am I to do?" said Mrs. Carbuncle, starting up from
the bed.

"I really think you had better send to Mr. Emilius," said Lizzie;--"and to Lord George."

"What am I to say? Who is there to go? Oh,--I wish that somebody would kill me this minute!
Lady Eustace, would you mind going down and telling those ladies to go away?"

"And had I not better send Richard to the church?"

"Oh yes;--send anybody everywhere. I don't know what to do. Oh, Lucinda, this is the unkindest
and the wickedest, and the most horrible thing that anybody ever did! I shall never, never
be able to hold up my head again." Mrs. Carbuncle was completely prostrate, but Lucinda sat
square at the table, firm as a rock, saying nothing, making no excuse for herself, with her
eyes fixed upon the Bible.

Lady Eustace carried her message to the astonished and indignant bridesmaids, and succeeded
in sending them back to their respective homes. Richard, glorious in new livery, forgetting
that his flowers were still on his breast,--ready dressed to attend the bride's carriage,--went
with his sad message, first to the church and then to the banqueting-hall in Albemarle Street.

"Not any wedding?" said the head-waiter at the hotel. "I knew they was folks as would have
a screw loose somewheres. There's lots to stand for the bill, anyways," he added, as he remembered
all the tribute.

CHAPTER LXX

Alas!

No attempt was made to send other messages from Hertford Street than those which were taken
to the church and to the hotel. Sir Griffin and Lord George went together to the church in
a brougham, and, on the way, the best man rather ridiculed the change in life which he supposed
that his friend was about to make. "I don't in the least know how you mean to get along," said
Lord George.

"Much as other men do, I suppose."

"But you're always sparring, already."

"It's that old woman that you're so fond of," said Sir Griffin. "I don't mean to have any ill-humour
from my wife, I can tell you. I know who will have the worst of it if there is."

"Upon my word, I think you'll have your hands full," said Lord George. They got out at a sort
of private door attached to the chapel, and were there received by the clerk, who wore a very
long face. The news had already come, and had been communicated to Mr. Emilius, who was in
the vestry. "Are the ladies here yet?" asked Lord George. The woebegone clerk told them that
the ladies were not yet there, and suggested that they should see Mr. Emilius. Into the presence
of Mr. Emilius they were led, and then they heard the truth.

"Sir Griffin," said Mr. Emilius, holding the baronet by the hand, "I'm sorry to have to tell
you that there's something wrong in Hertford Street."

"What's wrong?" asked Sir Griffin.

"You don't mean to say that Miss Roanoke is not to be here?" demanded Lord George. "By George,
I thought as much. I did indeed."

"I can only tell you what I know, Lord George. Mrs. Carbuncle's servant was here ten minutes
since, Sir Griffin,--before I came down, and he told the clerk that--that--"

"What the d---- did he tell him?" asked Sir Griffin.

"He said that Miss Roanoke had changed her mind, and didn't mean to be married at all. That's
all that I can learn from what he says. Perhaps you will think it best to go up to Hertford
Street?"

"I'll be ---- if I do," said Sir Griffin.

"I am not in the least surprised," repeated Lord George. "Tewett, my boy, we might as well
go home to lunch, and the sooner you're out of town the better."

"I knew that I should be taken in at last by that accursed woman," said Sir Griffin.

"It wasn't Mrs. Carbuncle, if you mean that. She'd have given her left hand to have had it
completed. I rather think you've had an escape, Griff; and if I were you, I'd make the best
of it." Sir Griffin spoke not another word, but left the church with his friend in the brougham
that had brought them, and so he disappears from our story. Mr. Emilius looked after him with
wistful eyes, regretful for his fee. Had the baronet been less coarse and violent in his language
he would have asked for it; but he feared that he might be cursed in his own church, before
his clerk, and abstained. Late in the afternoon Lord George, when he had administered comfort
to the disappointed bridegroom in the shape of a hot lunch, Curaçoa, and cigars, walked up
to Hertford Street, calling at the hotel in Albemarle Street on the way. The waiter told him
all that he knew. Some thirty or forty guests had come to the wedding-banquet, and had all
been sent away with tidings that the marriage had been--postponed. "You might have told 'em
a trifle more than that," said Lord George. "Postponed was pleasantest, my lord," said the
waiter. "Anyways, that was said, and we supposes, my lord, as the things ain't wanted now."
Lord George replied that, as far as he knew, the things were not wanted, and then continued
his way up to Hertford Street.

At first he saw Lizzie Eustace, upon whom the misfortune of the day had had a most depressing
effect. The wedding was to have been the one morsel of pleasing excitement which would come
before she underwent the humble penance to which she was doomed. That was frustrated and abandoned,
and now she could think only of Mr. Camperdown, her cousin Frank, and Lady Glencora Palliser.
"What's up now?" said Lord George, with that disrespect which had always accompanied his treatment
of her since she had told him her secret. "What's the meaning of all this?"

"I daresay that you know as well as I do, my lord."

"I must know a good deal if I do. It seems that among you there is nothing but one trick upon
another."

"I suppose you are speaking of your own friends, Lord George. You doubtless know much more
than I do of Miss Roanoke's affairs."

"Does she mean to say that she doesn't mean to marry the man at all?"

"So I understand;--but really you had better send for Mrs. Carbuncle."

He did send for Mrs. Carbuncle, and after some words with her, was taken up into Lucinda's
room. There sat the unfortunate girl, in the chair from which she had not moved since the morning.
There had come over her face a look of fixed but almost idiotic resolution; her mouth was compressed,
and her eyes were glazed, and she sat twiddling her book before her with her fingers. She had
eaten nothing since she had got up, and had long ceased to be violent when questioned by her
aunt. But, nevertheless, she was firm enough when her aunt begged to be allowed to write a
letter to Sir Griffin, explaining that all this had arisen from temporary indisposition. "No;
it isn't temporary. It isn't temporary at all. You can write to him; but I'll never come out
of this room if I am told that I am to see him."

"What is all this about, Lucinda?" said Lord George, speaking in his kindest voice.

"Is he there?" said she, turning round suddenly.

"Sir Griffin?--no indeed. He has left town."

"You're sure he's not there? It's no good his coming. If he comes for ever and ever he shall
never touch me again;--not alive; he shall never touch me again alive." As she spoke she moved
across the room to the fire-place and grasped the poker in her hand.

"Has she been like that all the morning?" whispered Lord George.

"No;--not like. She has been quite quiet. Lucinda!"

"Don't let him come here, then; that's all. What's the use? They can't make me marry him. And
I won't marry him. Everybody has known that I hated him,--detested him. Oh, Lord George, it
has been very, very cruel."

"Has it been my fault, Lucinda?"

"She wouldn't have done it if you had told her not. But you won't bring him again;--will you?"

"Certainly not. He means to go abroad."

"Ah,--yes; that will be best. Let him go abroad. He knew it all the time,--that I hated him.
Why did he want me to be his wife? If he has gone abroad, I will go down-stairs. But I won't
go out of the house. Nothing shall make me go out of the house. Are the bridesmaids gone?"

"Long ago," said Mrs. Carbuncle, piteously.

"Then I will go down." And, between them, they led her into the drawing-room.

"It is my belief," said Lord George to Mrs. Carbuncle, some minutes afterwards, "that you have
driven her mad."

"Are you going to turn against me?"

"It is true. How you have had the heart to go on pressing it upon her, I could never understand.
I am about as hard as a milestone, but I'll be shot if I could have done it. From day to day
I thought that you would have given way."

"That is so like a man,--when it is all over, to turn upon a woman and say that she did it."

"Didn't you do it? I thought you did, and that you took a great deal of pride in the doing
of it. When you made him offer to her down in Scotland, and made her accept him, you were so
proud that you could hardly hold yourself. What will you do now? Go on just as though nothing
had happened?"

"I don't know what we shall do. There will be so many things to be paid."

"I should think there would,--and you can hardly expect Sir Griffin to pay for them. You'll
have to take her away somewhere. You'll find that she can't remain here. And that other woman
will be in prison before the week's over, I should say,--unless she runs away."

There was not much of comfort to be obtained by any of them from Lord George, who was quite
as harsh to Mrs. Carbuncle as he had been to Lizzie Eustace. He remained in Hertford Street
for an hour, and then took his leave, saying that he thought that he also should go abroad.
"I didn't think," he said, "that anything could have hurt my character much; but, upon my word,
between you and Lady Eustace, I begin to find that in every deep there may be a lower depth.
All the town has given me credit for stealing her ladyship's necklace, and now I shall be mixed
up in this mock marriage. I shouldn't wonder if Rooper were to send his bill in to me,"--Mr.
Rooper was the keeper of the hotel in Albemarle Street,--"I think I shall follow Sir Griffin
abroad. You have made England too hot to hold me." And so he left them.

The evening of that day was a terrible time to the three ladies in Hertford Street,--and the
following day was almost worse. Nobody came to see them, and not one of them dared to speak
of the future. For the third day, the Wednesday, Lady Eustace had made her appointment with
Mr. Camperdown, having written to the attorney, in compliance with the pressing advice of Major
Mackintosh, to name an hour. Mr. Camperdown had written again, sending his compliments, and
saying that he would receive Lady Eustace at the time fixed by her. The prospect of this interview
was very bad, but even this was hardly so oppressive as the actual existing wretchedness of
that house. Mrs. Carbuncle, whom Lizzie had always known as high-spirited, bold, and almost
domineering, was altogether prostrated by her misfortunes. She was querulous, lachrymose, and
utterly despondent. From what Lizzie now learned, her hostess was enveloped in a mass of debt
which would have been hopeless, even had Lucinda gone off as a bride; but she had been willing
to face all that with the object of establishing her niece. She could have expected nothing
from the marriage for herself. She well knew that Sir Griffin would neither pay her debts nor
give her a home nor lend her money. But to have married the girl who was in her charge would
have been in itself a success, and would have in some sort repaid her for her trouble. There
would have been something left to show for her expenditure of time and money. But now there
was nothing around her but failure and dismay. The very servants in the house seemed to know
that ordinary respect was hardly demanded from them.

As to Lucinda, Lizzie felt, from the very hour in which she first saw her on the morning of
the intended wedding, that her mind was astray. She insisted on passing the time up in her
own room, and always sat with the Bible before her. At every knock at the door, or ring at
the bell, she would look round suspiciously, and once she whispered into Lizzie's ear that
if ever "he" should come there again she would "give him a kiss with a vengeance." On the Tuesday,
Lizzie recommended Mrs. Carbuncle to get medical advice,--and at last they sent for Mr. Emilius
that they might ask counsel of him. Mr. Emilius was full of smiles and consolation, and still
allowed his golden hopes as to some Elysian future to crop out;--but he did acknowledge at
last, in a whispered conference with Lady Eustace, that somebody ought to see Miss Roanoke.
Somebody did see Miss Roanoke,--and the doctor who was thus appealed to shook his head. Perhaps
Miss Roanoke had better be taken into the country for a little while.

"Dear Lady Eustace," said Mrs. Carbuncle, "now you can be a friend indeed,"--meaning, of course,
that an invitation to Portray Castle would do more than could anything else towards making
straight the crooked things of the hour. Mrs. Carbuncle, when she made the request, of course
knew of Lizzie's coming troubles;--but let them do what they could to Lizzie, they could not
take away her house.

But Lizzie felt at once that this would not suit. "Ah, Mrs. Carbuncle," she said. "You do not
know the condition which I am in myself!"

CHAPTER LXXI

Lizzie Is Threatened with the Treadmill

Early on the Wednesday morning, two or three hours before the time fixed for Lizzie's visit
to Mr. Camperdown, her cousin Frank came to call upon her. She presumed him to be altogether
ignorant of all that Major Mackintosh had known, and therefore endeavoured to receive him as
though her heart were light.

"Oh, Frank," she said, "you have heard of our terrible misfortune here?"

"I have heard so much," said he gravely, "that I hardly know what to believe and what not to
believe."

"I mean about Miss Roanoke's marriage?"

"Oh, yes;--I have been told that it is broken off."

Then Lizzie, with affected eagerness, gave him a description of the whole affair, declaring
how horrible, how tragic, the thing had been from its very commencement. "Don't you remember,
Frank, down at Portray, they never really cared for each other? They became engaged the very
time you were there."

"I have not forgotten it."

"The truth is, Lucinda Roanoke did not understand what real love means. She had never taught
herself to comprehend what is the very essence of love;--and as for Sir Griffin Tewett, though
he was anxious to marry her, he never had any idea of love at all. Did not you always feel
that, Frank?"

"I'm sorry you have had so much to do with them, Lizzie."

"There's no help for spilt milk, Frank; and, as for that, I don't suppose that Mrs. Carbuncle
can do me any harm. The man is a baronet, and the marriage would have been respectable. Miss
Roanoke has been eccentric, and that has been the long and the short of it. What will be done,
Frank, with all the presents that were bought?"

"I haven't an idea. They'd better be sold to pay the bills. But I came to you, Lizzie, about
another piece of business."

"What piece of business?" she asked, looking him in the face for a moment, trying to be bold,
but trembling as she did so. She had believed him to be ignorant of her story, but she had
soon perceived, from his manner to her, that he knew it all,--or, at least, that he knew so
much that she would have to tell him all the rest. There could be no longer any secret with
him. Indeed there could be no longer any secret with anybody. She must be prepared to encounter
a world accurately informed as to every detail of the business which, for the last three months,
had been to her a burden so oppressive that, at some periods, she had sunk altogether under
the weight. She had already endeavoured to realise her position, and to make clear to herself
the condition of her future life. Lord George had talked to her of perjury and prison, and
had tried to frighten her by making the very worst of her faults. According to him she would
certainly be made to pay for the diamonds, and would be enabled to do so by saving her income
during a long term of incarceration. This was a terrible prospect of things;--and she had almost
believed in it. Then the major had come to her. The major, she thought, was the truest gentleman
she had ever seen, and her best friend. Ah;--if it had not been for the wife and seven children,
there might still have been comfort! That which had been perjury with Lord George, had by the
major been so simply, and yet so correctly, called an incorrect version of facts! And so it
was,--and no more than that. Lizzie, in defending herself to herself, felt that, though cruel
magistrates and hard-hearted lawyers and pig-headed jurymen might call her little fault by
the name of perjury, it could not be real, wicked perjury, because the diamonds had been her
own. She had defrauded nobody,--had wished to defraud nobody,--if only the people would have
left her alone. It had suited her to give--an incorrect version of facts, because people had
troubled themselves about her affairs; and now all this had come upon her! The major had comforted
her very greatly; but still,--what would the world say? Even he, kind and comfortable as he
had been, had made her understand that she must go into court and confess the incorrectness
of her own version. She believed every word the major said. Ah, there was a man worthy to be
believed;--a man of men! They could not take away her income or her castle. They could not
make her pay for the diamonds. But still,--what would the world say? And what would her lovers
say? What one of her lovers thought proper to say, she had already heard. Lord George had spoken
out, and had made himself very disagreeable. Lord Fawn, she knew, would withdraw the renewal
of his offer, let her answer to him be what it might. But what would Frank say? And now Frank
was with her, looking into her face with severe eyes.

She was more than ever convinced that the life of a widow was not suited for her, and that,
among her several lovers, she must settle her wealth and her heart upon some special lover.
Neither her wealth nor her heart would be in any way injured by the confession which she was
prepared to make. But then men are so timid, so false, and so blind! In regard to Frank, whom
she now believed that she had loved with all the warmth of her young affections from the first
moment in which she had seen him after Sir Florian's death,--she had been at great trouble
to clear the way for him. She knew of his silly engagement to Lucy Morris, and was willing
to forgive him that offence. She knew that he could not marry Lucy, because of her pennilessness
and his indebtedness; and therefore she had taken the trouble to see Lucy with the view of
making things straight on that side. Lucy had, of course, been rough with her, and ill-mannered,
but Lizzie thought that, upon the whole, she had succeeded. Lucy was rough and ill-mannered,
but was, at the same time, what the world calls good, and would hardly persevere after what
had been said to her. Lizzie was sure that, a month since, her cousin would have yielded himself
to her willingly, if he could only have freed himself from Lucy Morris. But now, just in this
very nick of time, which was so momentous to her, the police had succeeded in unravelling her
secret, and there sat Frank, looking at her with stern, ill-natured eyes, like an enemy rather
than a lover.

"What piece of business?" she asked, in answer to his question. She must be bold,--if she could.
She must brazen it out with him, if only she could be strong enough to put on her brass in
his presence. He had been so stupidly chivalrous in believing all her stories about the robbery
when nobody else had quite believed them, that she felt that she had before her a task that
was very disagreeable and very difficult. She looked up at him, struggling to be bold, and
then her glance sank before his gaze and fell upon the floor.

"I do not at all wish to pry into your secrets," he said.

Secrets from him! Some such exclamation was on her lips, when she remembered that her special
business, at the present moment, was to acknowledge a secret which had been kept from him.
"It is unkind of you to speak to me in that way," she said.

"I am quite in earnest. I do not wish to pry into your secrets. But I hear rumours which seem
to be substantiated; and though, of course, I could stay away from you--"

"Oh,--whatever happens, pray, pray do not stay away from me. Where am I to look for advice
if you stay away from me?"

"That is all very well, Lizzie."

"Ah, Frank! if you desert me, I am undone."

"It is, of course, true that some of the police have been with you lately?"

"Major Mackintosh was here, about the end of last week,--a most kind man, altogether a gentleman,
and I was so glad to see him."

"What made him come?"

"What made him come?" How should she tell her story? "Oh, he came, of course, about the robbery.
They have found out everything. It was the jeweller, Benjamin, who concocted it all. That horrid
sly girl I had, Patience Crabstick, put him up to it. And there were two regular housebreakers.
They have found it all out at last."

"So I hear."

"And Major Mackintosh came to tell me about it."

"But the diamonds are gone?"

"Oh yes;--those weary, weary diamonds. Do you know, Frank, that, though they were my own, as
much as the coat you wear is your own, I am glad they are gone. I am glad that the police have
not found them. They tormented me so that I hated them. Don't you remember that I told you
how I longed to throw them into the sea, and to be rid of them for ever?"

"That, of course, was a joke."

"It was no joke, Frank. It was solemn, serious truth."

"What I want to know is,--where were they stolen?"

That, of course, was the question which hitherto Lizzie Eustace had answered by an incorrect
version of facts, and now she must give the true version. She tried to put a bold face upon
it, but it was very difficult. A face bold with brass she could not assume. Perhaps a little
bit of acting might serve her turn, and a face that should be tender rather than bold. "Oh,
Frank!" she exclaimed, bursting out into tears.

"I always supposed that they were taken at Carlisle," said Frank. Lizzie fell on her knees,
at his feet, with her hands clasped together, and her one long lock of hair hanging down so
as to touch his arm. Her eyes were bright with tears, but were not, as yet, wet and red with
weeping. Was not this confession enough? Was he so hard-hearted as to make her tell her own
disgrace in spoken words? Of course he knew, well enough, now, when the diamonds had been stolen.
If he were possessed of any tenderness, any tact, any manliness, he would go on, presuming
that question to have been answered.

"I don't quite understand it all," he said, laying his hand softly upon her shoulder. "I have
been led to make so many statements to other people, which now seem to have been--incorrect!
It was only the box that was taken at Carlisle?"

"Only the box." She could answer that question.

"But the thieves thought that the diamonds were in the box?"

"I suppose so. But, oh, Frank! don't cross-question me about it. If you could know what I have
suffered, you would not punish me any more. I have got to go to Mr. Camperdown's this very
day. I offered to do that at once, and I sha'n't have strength to go through it if you are
not kind to me now. Dear, dear Frank,--do be kind to me."

And he was kind to her. He lifted her up to the sofa and did not ask her another question about
the necklace. Of course she had lied to him and to all the world. From the very commencement
of his intimacy with her, he had known that she was a liar, and what else could he have expected
but lies? As it happened, this particular lie had been very big, very efficacious, and the
cause of boundless troubles. It had been wholly unnecessary, and, from the first, though injurious
to many, more injurious to her than to any other. He himself had been injured, but it seemed
to him now that she had absolutely ruined herself. And all this had been done for nothing,--had
been done, as he thought, that Mr. Camperdown might be kept in the dark, whereas all the light
in the world would have assisted Mr. Camperdown nothing. He brought to mind, as he stood over
her, all those scenes which she had so successfully performed in his presence since she had
come to London,--scenes in which the robbery in Carlisle had been discussed between them. She
had on these occasions freely expressed her opinion about the necklace, saying, in a low whisper,
with a pretty little shrug of her shoulders, that she presumed it to be impossible that Lord
George should have been concerned in the robbery. Frank had felt, as she said so, that some
suspicion was intended by her to be attached to Lord George. She had wondered whether Mr. Camperdown
had known anything about it. She had hoped that Lord Fawn would now be satisfied. She had been
quite convinced that Mr. Benjamin had the diamonds. She had been indignant that the police
had not traced the property. She had asked in another whisper,--a very low whisper indeed,--whether
it was possible that Mrs. Carbuncle should know more about it than she was pleased to tell?
And all the while the necklace had been lying in her own desk, and she had put it there with
her own hands!

It was marvellous to him that the woman could have been so false and have sustained her falsehood
so well. And this was his cousin, his well-beloved,--as a cousin, certainly well-beloved; and
there had, doubtless, been times in which he had thought that he would make her his wife! He
could not but smile as he stood looking at her, contemplating all the confusion which she had
caused, and thinking how very little the disclosure of her iniquity seemed to confound herself.
"Oh, Frank, do not laugh at me," she said.

"I am not laughing, Lizzie; I am only wondering."

"And now, Frank, what had I better do?"

"Ah;--that is difficult; is it not? You see I hardly know all the truth yet. I do not want
to know more,--but how can I advise you?"

"I thought you knew everything."

"I don't suppose anybody can do anything to you."

"Major Mackintosh says that nobody can. He quite understands that they were my own property,
and that I had a right to keep them in my desk if I pleased. Why was I to tell everybody where
they were? Of course I was foolish, and now they are lost. It is I that have suffered. Major
Mackintosh quite understands that, and says that nobody can do anything to me;--only I must
go to Mr. Camperdown."

"You will have to be examined again before a magistrate."

"Yes;--I suppose I must be examined. You will go with me, Frank,--won't you?" He winced, and
made no immediate reply. "I don't mean to Mr. Camperdown, but before the magistrate. Will it
be in a court?"

"I suppose so."

"The gentleman came here before. Couldn't he come here again?" Then he explained to her the
difference of her present position, and in doing so he did say something of her iniquity. He
made her understand that the magistrate had gone out of his way at the last inquiry, believing
her to be a lady who had been grievously wronged, and one, therefore, to whom much consideration
was due. "And I have been grievously wronged," said Lizzie. But now she would be required to
tell the truth in opposition to the false evidence which she had formerly given; and she would
herself be exempted from prosecution for perjury only on the ground that she would be called
on to criminate herself in giving evidence against criminals whose crimes had been deeper than
her own. "I suppose they can't quite eat me," she said, smiling through her tears.

"No;--they won't eat you," he replied gravely.

"And you will go with me?"

"Yes;--I suppose I had better do so."

"Ah;--that will be so nice." The idea of the scene at the police-court was not at all "nice"
to Frank Greystock. "I shall not mind what they say to me as long as you are by my side. Everybody
will know that they were my own,--won't they?"

"And there will be the trial afterwards."

"Another trial?" Then he explained to her the course of affairs,--that the men might not improbably
be tried at Carlisle for stealing the box, and again in London for stealing the diamonds,--that
two distinct acts of burglary had been committed, and that her evidence would be required on
both occasions. He told her also that her attendance before the magistrate on Friday would
only be a preliminary ceremony, and that, before the thing was over she would, doubtless, be
doomed to bear a great deal of annoyance, and to answer very many disagreeable questions. "I
shall care for nothing if you will only be at my side," she exclaimed.

He was very urgent with her to go to Scotland as soon as her examination before the magistrates
should be over, and was much astonished at the excuse she made for not doing so. Mrs. Carbuncle
had borrowed all her ready money; but as she was now in Mrs. Carbuncle's house, she could repay
herself a portion of the loan by remaining there and eating it out. She did not exactly say
how much Mrs. Carbuncle had borrowed, but she left an impression on Frank's mind that it was
about ten times the actual sum. With this excuse he was not satisfied, and told her that she
must go to Scotland, if only for the sake of escaping from the Carbuncle connexion. She promised
to obey him if he would be her convoy. The Easter holidays were just now at hand, and he could
not refuse on the plea of time. "Oh, Frank, do not refuse me this;--only think how terribly
forlorn is my position!" He did not refuse, but he did not quite promise. He was still tender-hearted
towards her in spite of her enormities. One iniquity,--perhaps her worst iniquity, he did not
yet know. He had not as yet heard of her disinterested appeal to Lucy Morris.

When he left her she was almost joyous for a few minutes;--till the thought of her coming interview
with Mr. Camperdown again overshadowed her. She had dreaded two things chiefly,--her first
interview with her cousin Frank after he should have learned the truth, and those perils in
regard to perjury with which Lord George had threatened her. Both these bugbears had now vanished.
That dear man, the major, had told her that there would be no such perils, and her cousin Frank
had not seemed to think so very much of her lies and treachery! He had still been affectionate
with her; he would support her before the magistrate, and would travel with her to Scotland.
And after that who could tell what might come next? How foolish she had been to trouble herself
as she had done,--almost to choke herself with an agony of fear, because she had feared detection.
Now she was detected;--and what had come of it? That great officer of justice, Major Mackintosh,
had been almost more than civil to her; and her dear cousin Frank was still a cousin,--dear
as ever. People, after all, did not think so very much of perjury,--of perjury such as hers,
committed in regard to one's own property. It was that odious Lord George who had frightened
her, instead of comforting, as he would have done had there been a spark of the true Corsair
poetry about him. She did not feel comfortably confident as to what might be said of her by
Lady Glencora and the Duke of Omnium, but she was almost inclined to think that Lady Glencora
would support her. Lady Glencora was no poor, mealy-mouthed thing, but a woman of the world
who understood what was what. Lizzie no doubt wished that the trials and examinations were
over;--but her money was safe. They could not take away Portray, nor could they rob her of
four thousand a year. As for the rest, she could live it down.

She had ordered the carriage to take her to Mr. Camperdown's chambers, and now she dressed
herself for the occasion. He should not be made to think, at any rate by her outside appearance,
that she was ashamed of herself. But before she started she had just a word with Mrs. Carbuncle.
"I think I shall go down to Scotland on Saturday," she said, proclaiming her news not in the
most gracious manner.

"That is if they let you go," said Mrs. Carbuncle.

"What do you mean? Who is to prevent me?"

"The police. I know all about it, Lady Eustace, and you need not look like that. Lord George
informs me that you will probably--be locked up to-day or to-morrow."

"Lord George is a story-teller. I don't believe he ever said so. And if he did, he knows nothing
about it."

"He ought to know, considering all that you have made him suffer. That you should have gone
on, with the necklace in your own box all the time, letting people think that he had taken
it, and accepting his attentions all the while, is what I cannot understand! And however you
were able to look those people at Carlisle in the face, passes me! Of course, Lady Eustace,
you can't stay here after what has occurred."

"I shall stay just as long as I like, Mrs. Carbuncle."

"Poor dear Lucinda! I do not wonder that she should be driven beyond herself by so horrible
a story. The feeling that she has been living all this time in the same house with a woman
who had deceived all the police,--all the police,--has been too much for her. I know it has
been almost too much for me." And yet, as Lizzie at once understood, Mrs. Carbuncle knew nothing
now which she had not known when she made her petition to be taken to Portray. And this was
the woman, too, who had borrowed her money last week, whom she had entertained for months at
Portray, and who had pretended to be her bosom-friend. "You are quite right in getting off
to Scotland as soon as possible,--if they will let you go," continued Mrs. Carbuncle. "Of course
you could not stay here. Up to Friday night it can be permitted; but the servants had better
wait upon you in your own rooms."

"How dare you talk to me in that way?" screamed Lizzie.

"When a woman has committed perjury," said Mrs. Carbuncle, holding up both her hands in awe
and grief, "nothing too bad can possibly be said to her. You are amenable to the outraged laws
of the country, and it is my belief that they can keep you upon the treadmill and bread and
water for months and months,--if not for years." Having pronounced this terrible sentence,
Mrs. Carbuncle stalked out of the room. "That they can sequester your property for your creditors,
I know," she said, returning for a moment and putting her head within the door.

The carriage was ready, and it was time for Lizzie to start if she intended to keep her appointment
with Mr. Camperdown. She was much flustered and weakened by Mrs. Carbuncle's ill-usage, and
had difficulty in restraining herself from tears. And yet what the woman had said was false
from beginning to end. The maid, who was the successor of Patience Crabstick, was to accompany
her; and, as she passed through the hall, she so far recovered herself as to be able to conceal
her dismay from the servants.

CHAPTER LXXII

Lizzie Triumphs

Reports had, of course, reached Mr. Camperdown of the true story of the Eustace diamonds. He
had learned that the Jew jeweller had made a determined set at them, having in the first place
hired housebreakers to steal them at Carlisle, and having again hired the same housebreakers
to steal them from the house in Hertford Street, as soon as he knew that Lady Eustace had herself
secreted them. By degrees this information had reached him,--but not in a manner to induce
him to declare himself satisfied with the truth. But now Lady Eustace was coming to him,--as
he presumed, to confess everything.

When he first heard that the diamonds had been stolen at Carlisle, he was eager with Mr. Eustace
in contending that the widow's liability in regard to the property was not at all the less
because she had managed to lose it through her own pig-headed obstinacy. He consulted his trusted
friend, Mr. Dove, on the occasion, making out another case for the barrister, and Mr. Dove
had opined that, if it could be first proved that the diamonds were the property of the estate
and not of Lady Eustace, and afterwards proved that they had been stolen through her laches,--then
could the Eustace estate recover the value from her estate. As she had carried the diamonds
about with her in an absurd manner, her responsibility might probably be established;--but
the non-existence of ownership by her must be first declared by a Vice-Chancellor,--with probability
of appeal to the Lords Justices and to the House of Lords. A bill in Chancery must be filed,
in the first place, to have the question of ownership settled; and then, should the estate
be at length declared the owner, restitution of the property which had been lost through the
lady's fault must be sought at Common Law.

That had been the opinion of the Turtle Dove, and Mr. Camperdown had at once submitted to the
law of his great legal mentor. But John Eustace had positively declared when he heard it that
no more money should be thrown away in looking after property which would require two lawsuits
to establish, and which, when established, might not be recovered. "How can we make her pay
ten thousand pounds? She might die first," said John Eustace;--and Mr. Camperdown had been
forced to yield. Then came the second robbery, and gradually there was spread about a report
that the diamonds had been in Hertford Street all the time;--that they had not been taken at
Carlisle, but certainly had been stolen at last.

Mr. Camperdown was again in a fever, and again had recourse to Mr. Dove and to John Eustace.
He learned from the police all that they would tell him, and now the whole truth was to be
divulged to him by the chief culprit herself. For, to the mind of Mr. Camperdown the two housebreakers,
and Patience Crabstick,--and even Mr. Benjamin himself, were white as snow compared with the
blackness of Lady Eustace. In his estimation no punishment could be too great for her,--and
yet he began to understand that she would escape scot-free! Her evidence would be needed to
convict the thieves, and she could not be prosecuted for perjury when once she had been asked
for her evidence. "After all, she has only told a fib about her own property," said the Turtle
Dove. "About property not her own," replied Mr. Camperdown stoutly. "Her own,--till the contrary
shall have been proved; her own, for all purposes of defence before a jury, if she were prosecuted
now. Were she tried for the perjury, your attempt to obtain possession of the diamonds would
be all so much in her favour." With infinite regrets, Mr. Camperdown began to perceive that
nothing could be done to her.

But she was to come to him and let him know, from her own lips, facts of which nothing more
than rumour had yet reached him. He had commenced his bill in Chancery, and had hitherto stayed
proceedings simply because it had been reported,--falsely, as it now appeared,--that the diamonds
had been stolen at Carlisle. Major Mackintosh, in his desire to use Lizzie's evidence against
the thieves, had recommended her to tell the whole truth openly to those who claimed the property
on behalf of her husband's estate; and now, for the first time in her life, this odious woman
was to visit him in his own chambers.

He did not think it expedient to receive her alone. He consulted his mentor, Mr. Dove, and
his client, John Eustace, and the latter consented to be present. It was suggested to Mr. Dove
that he might, on so peculiar an occasion as this, venture to depart from the established rule,
and visit the attorney on his own quarter-deck; but he smiled, and explained that, though he
was altogether superior to any such prejudice as that, and would not object at all to call
on his friend, Mr. Camperdown, could any good effect arise from his doing so, he considered
that, were he to be present on this occasion, he would simply assist in embarrassing the poor lady.

On this very morning, while Mrs. Carbuncle was abusing Lizzie in Hertford Street, John Eustace
and Mr. Camperdown were in Mr. Dove's chambers, whither they had gone to tell him of the coming
interview. The Turtle Dove was sitting back in his chair, with his head leaning forward as
though it were going to drop from his neck, and the two visitors were listening to his words.
"Be merciful, I should say," suggested the barrister. John Eustace was clearly of opinion that
they ought to be merciful. Mr. Camperdown did not look merciful. "What can you get by harassing
the poor, weak, ignorant creature?" continued Mr. Dove. "She has hankered after her bauble,
and has told falsehoods in her efforts to keep it. Have you never heard of older persons, and
more learned persons, and persons nearer to ourselves, who have done the same?" At that moment
there was presumed to be great rivalry, not unaccompanied by intrigue, among certain leaders
of the learned profession with reference to various positions of high honour and emolument,
vacant or expected to be vacant. A Lord Chancellor was about to resign, and a Lord Justice
had died. Whether a somewhat unpopular Attorney-General should be forced to satisfy himself
with the one place, or allowed to wait for the other, had been debated in all the newspapers.
It was agreed that there was a middle course in reference to a certain second-class Chief-Justiceship,--only
that the present second-class Chief-Justice objected to shelving himself. There existed considerable
jealousy, and some statements had been made which were not, perhaps, strictly founded on fact.
It was understood, both by the attorney and by the Member of Parliament, that the Turtle Dove
was referring to these circumstances when he spoke of baubles and falsehoods, and of learned
persons near to themselves. He himself had hankered after no bauble,--but, as is the case with
many men and women who are free from such hankerings, he was hardly free from that dash of
malice which the possession of such things in the hands of others is so prone to excite. "Spare
her," said Mr. Dove. "There is no longer any material question as to the property, which seems
to be gone irrecoverably. It is, upon the whole, well for the world, that property so fictitious
as diamonds should be subject to the risk of such annihilation. As far as we are concerned,
the property is annihilated, and I would not harass the poor, ignorant young creature."

As Eustace and the attorney walked across from the Old to the New Square, the former declared
that he quite agreed with Mr. Dove. "In the first place, Mr. Camperdown, she is my brother's
widow." Mr. Camperdown with sorrow admitted the fact. "And she is the mother of the head of
our family. It should not be for us to degrade her;--but rather to protect her from degradation,
if that be possible." "I heartily wish she had got her merits before your poor brother ever
saw her," said Mr. Camperdown.

Lizzie, in her fears, had been very punctual; and when the two gentlemen reached the door leading
up to Mr. Camperdown's chambers, the carriage was already standing there. Lizzie had come up
the stairs, and had been delighted at hearing that Mr. Camperdown was out, and would be back
in a moment. She instantly resolved that it did not become her to wait. She had kept her appointment,
had not found Mr. Camperdown at home, and would be off as fast as her carriage-wheels could
take her. But, unfortunately, while with a gentle murmur she was explaining to the clerk how
impossible it was that she should wait for a lawyer who did not keep his own appointment, John
Eustace and Mr. Camperdown appeared upon the landing, and she was at once convoyed into the
attorney's particular room.

Lizzie, who always dressed well, was now attired as became a lady of rank, who had four thousand
a year, and was the intimate friend of Lady Glencora Palliser. When last she saw Mr. Camperdown
she had been arrayed for a long, dusty summer journey down to Scotland, and neither by her
outside garniture nor by her manner had she then been able to exact much admiration. She had
been taken by surprise in the street, and was frightened. Now, in difficulty though she was,
she resolved that she would hold up her head and be very brave. She was a little taken aback
when she saw her brother-in-law, but she strove hard to carry herself with confidence. "Ah,
John," she said, "I did not expect to find you with Mr. Camperdown."

"I thought it best that I should be here,--as a friend," he said.

"It makes it much pleasanter for me, of course," said Lizzie. "I am not quite sure that Mr.
Camperdown will allow me to regard him as a friend."

"You have never had any reason to regard me as your enemy, Lady Eustace," said Mr. Camperdown.
"Will you take a seat? I understand that you wish to state the circumstances under which the
Eustace family diamonds were stolen while they were in your hands."

"My own diamonds, Mr. Camperdown."

"I cannot admit that for a moment, my lady."

"What does it signify?" said Eustace. "The wretched stones are gone for ever; and whether they
were of right the property of my sister-in-law, or of her son, cannot matter now."

Mr. Camperdown was irritated, and shook his head. It cut him to the heart that everybody should
take the part of the wicked, fraudulent woman who had caused him such infinite trouble. Lizzie
saw her opportunity and was bolder than ever. "You will never get me to acknowledge that they
were not my own," she said. "My husband gave them to me, and I know that they were my own."

"They have been stolen, at any rate," said the lawyer.

"Yes;--they have been stolen."

"And now will you tell us how?"

Lizzie looked round upon her brother-in-law and sighed. She had never yet told the story in
all its nakedness, although it had been three or four times extracted from her by admission.
She paused, hoping that questions might be asked her which she could answer by easy monosyllables,
but not a word was uttered to help her. "I suppose you know all about it," she said at last.

"I know nothing about it," said Mr. Camperdown.

"We heard that your jewel-case was taken out of your room at Carlisle and broken open," said
Eustace.

"So it was. They broke into my room in the dead of night, when I was in bed, fast asleep, and
took the case away. When the morning came, everybody rushed into my room, and I was so frightened
that I did not know what I was doing. How would your daughter bear it, if two men cut away
the locks and got into her bedroom when she was asleep? You don't think about that at all."

"And where was the necklace?" asked Eustace.

Lizzie remembered that her friend the major had specially advised her to tell the whole truth
to Mr. Camperdown,--suggesting that by doing so she would go far towards saving herself from
any prosecution. "It was under my pillow," she whispered.

"And why did you not tell the magistrate that it had been under your pillow?"

Mr. Camperdown's voice, as he put to her this vital question, was severe, and almost justified
the little burst of sobs which came forth as a prelude to Lizzie's answer. "I did not know
what I was doing. I don't know what you expect from me. You had been persecuting me ever since
Sir Florian's death about the diamonds, and I didn't know what I was to do. They were my own,
and I thought I was not obliged to tell everybody where I kept them. There are things which
nobody tells. If I were to ask you all your secrets, would you tell them? When Sir Walter Scott
was asked whether he wrote the novels, he didn't tell."

"He was not upon his oath, Lady Eustace."

"He did take his oath,--ever so many times. I don't know what difference an oath makes. People
ain't obliged to tell their secrets, and I wouldn't tell mine."

"The difference is this, Lady Eustace;--that if you give false evidence upon oath, you commit
perjury."

"How was I to think of that, when I was so frightened and confused that I didn't know where
I was or what I was doing? There;--now I have told you everything."

"Not quite everything. The diamonds were not stolen at Carlisle, but they were stolen afterwards.
Did you tell the police what you had lost,--or the magistrate,--after the robbery in Hertford
Street?"

"Yes; I did. There was some money taken, and rings, and other jewellery."

"Did you tell them that the diamonds had been really stolen on that occasion?"

"They never asked me, Mr. Camperdown."

"It is all as clear as a pike-staff, John," said the lawyer.

"Quite clear, I should say," replied Mr. Eustace.

"And I suppose I may go," said Lizzie, rising from her chair.

There was no reason why she should not go; and, indeed, now that the interview was over, there
did not seem to be any reason why she should have come. Though they had heard so much from
her own mouth, they knew no more than they had known before. The great mystery had been elucidated,
and Lizzie Eustace had been found to be the intriguing villain; but it was quite clear, even
to Mr. Camperdown, that nothing could be done to her. He had never really thought that it would
be expedient that she should be prosecuted for perjury, and he now found that she must go utterly
scatheless, although, by her obstinacy and dishonesty, she had inflicted so great a loss on
the distinguished family which had taken her to its bosom. "I have no reason for wishing to
detain you, Lady Eustace," he said. "If I were to talk for ever, I should not, probably, make
you understand the extent of the injury you have done, or teach you to look in a proper light
at the position in which you have placed yourself and all those who belong to you. When your
husband died, good advice was given you, and given, I think, in a very kind way. You would
not listen to it, and you see the result."

"I ain't a bit ashamed of anything," said Lizzie.

"I suppose not," rejoined Mr. Camperdown.

"Good-bye, John." And Lizzie put out her hand to her brother-in-law.

"Good-bye, Lizzie."

"Mr. Camperdown, I have the honour to wish you good morning." And Lizzie made a low curtsey
to the lawyer, and was then attended to her carriage by the lawyer's clerk. She had certainly
come forth from the interview without fresh wounds.

"The barrister who will have the cross-examining of her at the Central Criminal Court," said
Mr. Camperdown, as soon as the door was closed behind her, "will have a job of work on his
hands. There's nothing a pretty woman can't do when she has got rid of all sense of shame."

"She is a very great woman," said John Eustace,--"a very great woman; and, if the sex could
have its rights, would make an excellent lawyer." In the meantime Lizzie Eustace returned home
to Hertford Street in triumph.

CHAPTER LXXIII

Lizzie's Last Lover

Lizzie's interview with the lawyer took place on the Wednesday afternoon, and, on her return
to Hertford Street she found a note from Mrs. Carbuncle. "I have made arrangements for dining
out to-day, and shall not return till after ten. I will do the same to-morrow, and on every
day till you leave town, and you can breakfast in your own room. Of course you will carry out
your plan for leaving this house on Monday. After what has passed, I shall prefer not to meet
you again.--J.C." And this was written by a woman who, but a few days since, had borrowed £150
from her, and who at this moment had in her hands fifty pounds' worth of silver-plate, supposed
to have been given to Lucinda, and which clearly ought to have been returned to the donor when
Lucinda's marriage was--postponed, as the newspapers had said! Lucinda at this time had left
the house in Hertford Street, but Lizzie had not been informed whither she had been taken.
She could not apply to Lucinda for restitution of the silver,--which was, in fact, held at
the moment by the Albemarle Street hotel-keeper as part security for his debt,--and she was
quite sure that any application to Mrs. Carbuncle for either the silver or the debt would be
unavailing. But she might, perhaps, cause annoyance by a letter, and could, at any rate, return
insult for insult. She therefore wrote to her late friend.

   MADAM,

   I certainly am not desirous of continuing an acquaintance
   into which I was led by false representations, and in the
   course of which I have been almost absurdly hospitable to
   persons altogether unworthy of my kindness. You, and your
   niece, and your especial friend Lord George Carruthers,
   and that unfortunate young man your niece's lover, were
   entertained at my country-house as my guests for some
   months. I am here, in my own right, by arrangement; and
   as I pay more than a proper share of the expense of the
   establishment, I shall stay as long as I please, and go
   when I please.

   In the meantime, as we are about to part, certainly for
   ever, I must beg you at once to repay me the sum of
   £150,--which you have borrowed from me; and I must also
   insist on your letting me have back the present of silver
   which was prepared for your niece's marriage. That you
   should retain it as a perquisite for yourself cannot for
   a moment be thought of, however convenient it might be to
   yourself.

   Yours, &c.,

   E. EUSTACE.

As far as the application for restitution went, or indeed in regard to the insult, she might
as well have written to a milestone. Mrs. Carbuncle was much too strong, and had fought her
battle with the world much too long, to regard such word-pelting as that. She paid no attention
to the note, and as she had come to terms with the agent of the house by which she was to evacuate
it on the following Monday,--a fact which was communicated to Lizzie by the servant,--she did
not much regard Lizzie's threat to remain there. She knew, moreover, that arrangements were
already being made for the journey to Scotland.

Lizzie had come back from the attorney's chambers in triumph, and had been triumphant when
she wrote her note to Mrs. Carbuncle; but her elation was considerably repressed by a short
notice which she read in the fashionable evening paper of the day. She always took the fashionable
evening paper, and had taught herself to think that life without it was impossible. But on
this afternoon she quarrelled with that fashionable evening paper for ever. The popular and
well-informed organ of intelligence in question informed its readers, that the Eustace diamonds--&c.,
&c. In fact, it told the whole story; and then expressed a hope that, as the matter had from
the commencement been one of great interest to the public, who had sympathised with Lady Eustace
deeply as to the loss of her diamonds, Lady Eustace would be able to explain that part of her
conduct which certainly, at present, was quite unintelligible. Lizzie threw the paper from
her with indignation, asking what right newspaper scribblers could have to interfere with the
private affairs of such persons as herself!

But on this evening the question of her answer to Lord Fawn was the one which most interested
her. Lord Fawn had taken long in the writing of his letter, and she was justified in taking
what time she pleased in answering it;--but, for her own sake, it had better be answered quickly.
She had tried her hand at two different replies, and did not at all doubt but what she would
send the affirmative answer, if she were sure that these latter discoveries would not alter
Lord Fawn's decision. Lord Fawn had distinctly told her that, if she pleased, he would marry
her. She would please;--having been much troubled by the circumstances of the past six months.
But then, was it not almost a certainty that Lord Fawn would retreat from his offer on learning
the facts which were now so well known as to have been related in the public papers? She thought
that she would take one more night to think of it.

Alas! she took one night too many. On the next morning, while she was still in bed, a letter
was brought to her from Lord Fawn, dated from his club the preceding evening. "Lord Fawn presents
his compliments to Lady Eustace. Lady Eustace will be kind enough to understand that Lord Fawn
recedes altogether from the proposition made by him in his letter to Lady Eustace dated March
28th last. Should Lady Eustace think proper to call in question the propriety of this decision
on the part of Lord Fawn, she had better refer the question to some friend, and Lord Fawn will
do the same. Lord Fawn thinks it best to express his determination, under no circumstances,
to communicate again personally with Lady Eustace on this subject,--or, as far as he can see
at present, on any other."

The letter was a blow to her, although she had felt quite certain that Lord Fawn would have
no difficulty in escaping from her hands as soon as the story of the diamonds should be made
public. It was a blow to her, although she had assured herself a dozen times that a marriage
with such a one as Lord Fawn, a man who had not a grain of poetry in his composition, would
make her unutterably wretched. What escape would her heart have had from itself in such a union?
This question she had asked herself over and over again, and there had been no answer to it.
But then why had she not been beforehand with Lord Fawn? Why had she not rejected his second
offer with the scorn which such an offer had deserved? Ah,--there was her misfortune; there
was her fault!

But, with Lizzie Eustace, when she could not do a thing which it was desirable that she should
be known to have done, the next consideration was whether she could not so arrange as to seem
to have done it. The arrival of Lord Fawn's note just as she was about to write to him, was
unfortunate. But she would still write to him, and date her letter before the time that his
was dated. He probably would not believe her date. She hardly ever expected to be really believed
by anybody. But he would have to read what she wrote; and writing on this pretence, she would
avoid the necessity of alluding to his last letter.

Neither of the notes which she had by her quite suited the occasion,--so she wrote a third.
The former letter in which she declined his offer was, she thought, very charmingly insolent,
and the allusion to his lordship's scullion would have been successful, had it been sent on
the moment, but now a graver letter was required,--and the graver letter was as follows:--

   Hertford Street, Wednesday, April 3.

--The date, it will be observed, was the day previous to the morning on which she had received
Lord Fawn's last very conclusive note.--

   MY LORD,

   I have taken a week to answer the letter which your
   lordship has done me the honour of writing to me, because
   I have thought it best to have time for consideration in
   a matter of such importance. In this I have copied your
   lordship's official caution.

   I think I never read a letter so false, so unmanly, and so
   cowardly, as that which you have found yourself capable of
   sending to me.

   You became engaged to me when, as I admit with shame, I
   did not know your character. You have since repudiated me
   and vilified my name, simply because, having found that I
   had enemies, and being afraid to face them, you wished to
   escape from your engagement. It has been cowardice from
   the beginning to the end. Your whole conduct to me has
   been one long, unprovoked insult, studiously concocted,
   because you have feared that there might possibly be
   some trouble for you to encounter. Nobody ever heard of
   anything so mean, either in novels or in real life.

   And now you again offer to marry me,--because you are
   again afraid. You think you will be thrashed, I suppose,
   if you decline to keep your engagement; and feel that if
   you offer to go on with it, my friends cannot beat you.
   You need not be afraid. No earthly consideration would
   induce me to be your wife. And if any friend of mine
   should look at you as though he meant to punish you, you
   can show him this letter and make him understand that it
   is I who have refused to be your wife, and not you who
   have refused to be my husband.

   E. EUSTACE.

This epistle Lizzie did send, believing that she could add nothing to its insolence, let her
study it as she might. And, she thought, as she read it for the fifth time, that it sounded
as though it had been written before her receipt of the final note from himself, and that it
would, therefore, irritate him the more.

This was to be the last week of her sojourn in town, and then she was to go down and bury herself
at Portray, with no other companionship than that of the faithful Macnulty, who had been left
in Scotland for the last three months as nurse-in-chief to the little heir. She must go and
give her evidence before the magistrate on Friday, as to which she had already received an
odious slip of paper;--but Frank would accompany her. Other misfortunes had passed off so lightly
that she hardly dreaded this. She did not quite understand why she was to be so banished, and
thought much on the subject. She had submitted herself to Frank's advice when first she had
begun to fear that her troubles would be insuperable. Her troubles were now disappearing; and,
as for Frank,--what was Frank to her, that she should obey him? Nevertheless, her trunks were
being already packed, and she knew that she must go. He was to accompany her on her journey,
and she would still have one more chance with him.

As she was thinking of all this, Mr. Emilius, the clergyman, was announced. In her loneliness
she was delighted to receive any visitor, and she knew that Mr. Emilius would be at least courteous
to her. When he had seated himself, he at once began to talk about the misfortune of the unaccomplished
marriage, and in a very low voice hinted that from the beginning to end there had been something
wrong. He had always feared that an alliance based on a footing that was so openly "pecuniary,"--he
declared that the word pecuniary expressed his meaning better than any other epithet,--could
not lead to matrimonial happiness. "We all know," said he, "that our dear friend, Mrs. Carbuncle,
had views of her own quite distinct from her niece's happiness. I have the greatest possible
respect for Mrs. Carbuncle,--and I may say esteem; but it is impossible to live long in any
degree of intimacy with Mrs. Carbuncle without seeing that she is--mercenary."

"Mercenary;--indeed she is," said Lizzie.

"You have observed it? Oh, yes; it is so, and it casts a shadow over a character which otherwise
has so much to charm."

"She is the most insolent and the most ungrateful woman that I ever heard of!" exclaimed Lizzie,
with energy. Mr. Emilius opened his eyes, but did not contradict her assertion. "As you have
mentioned her name, Mr. Emilius, I must tell you. I have done everything for that woman. You
know how I treated her down in Scotland."

"With a splendid hospitality," said Mr. Emilius.

"Of course she did not pay for anything there."

"Oh, no." The idea of any one being called upon to pay for what one ate and drank at a friend's
house, was peculiarly painful to Mr. Emilius.

"And I have paid for everything here. That is to say, we have made an arrangement, very much
in her favour. And she has borrowed large sums of money from me."

"I am not at all surprised at that," said Mr. Emilius.

"And when that unfortunate girl, her niece, was to be married to poor Sir Griffin Tewett, I
gave her a whole service of plate."

"What unparalleled generosity!"

"Would you believe she has taken the whole for her own base purposes? And then what do you
think she has done?"

"My dear Lady Eustace, hardly anything would astonish me."

Lizzie suddenly found a difficulty in describing to her friend the fact that Mrs. Carbuncle
was endeavouring to turn her out of the house, without also alluding to her own troubles about
the robbery. "She has actually told me," she continued, "that I must leave the house without
a day's warning. But I believe the truth is, that she has run so much into debt that she cannot
remain."

"I know that she is very much in debt, Lady Eustace."

"But she owed me some civility. Instead of that, she has treated me with nothing but insolence.
And why, do you think? It is all because I would not allow her to take that poor, insane young
woman to Portray Castle."

"You don't mean that she asked to go there?"

"She did, though."

"I never heard such impertinence in my life,--never," said Mr. Emilius, again opening his eyes
and shaking his head.

"She proposed that I should ask them both down to Portray, for--for--of course it would have
been almost for ever. I don't know how I should have got rid of them. And that poor young woman
is mad, you know;--quite mad. She never recovered herself after that morning. Oh,--what I have
suffered about that unhappy marriage, and the cruel, cruel way in which Mrs. Carbuncle urged
it on. Mr. Emilius, you can't conceive the scenes which have been acted in this house during
the last month. It has been dreadful. I wouldn't go through such a time again for anything
that could be offered to me. It has made me so ill that I am obliged to go down to Scotland
to recruit my health."

"I heard that you were going to Scotland, and I wished to have an opportunity of saying--just
a word to you, in private, before you go." Mr. Emilius had thought a good deal about this interview,
and had prepared himself for it with considerable care. He knew, with tolerable accuracy, the
whole story of the necklace, having discussed it with Mrs. Carbuncle, who, as the reader will
remember, had been told the tale by Lord George. He was aware of the engagement with Lord Fawn,
and of the growing intimacy which had existed between Lord George and Lizzie. He had been watchful,
diligent, patient, and had at last become hopeful. When he learned that his beloved was about
to start for Scotland, he felt that it would be well that he should strike a blow before she
went. As to a journey down to Ayrshire, that would be nothing to one so enamoured as was Mr.
Emilius; and he would not scruple to show himself at the castle-door without invitation. Whatever
may have been his deficiencies, Mr. Emilius did not lack the courage needed to carry such an
enterprise as this to a happy conclusion. As far as pluck and courage might serve a man, he
was well served by his own gifts. He could, without a blush, or a quiver in his voice, have
asked a duchess to marry him, with ten times Lizzie's income. He had now considered deeply
whether, with the view of prevailing, it would be better that he should allude to the lady's
trespasses in regard to the diamonds, or that he should pretend to be in ignorance; and he
had determined that ultimate success might, with most probability, be achieved by a bold declaration
of the truth. "I know how desperately you must be in want of some one to help you through your
troubles, and I know also that your grand lovers will avoid you because of what you have done,
and therefore you had better take me at once. Take me, and I'll bring you through everything.
Refuse me, and I'll help to crush you." Such were the arguments which Mr. Emilius had determined
to use, and such the language,--of course, with some modifications. He was now commencing his
work, and was quite resolved to leave no stone unturned in carrying it to a successful issue.
He drew his chair nearer to Lizzie as he announced his desire for a private interview, and
leaned over towards her with his two hands closed together between his knees. He was a dark,
hookey-nosed, well-made man, with an exuberance of greasy hair, who would have been considered
handsome by many women, had there not been something, almost amounting to a squint, amiss with
one of his eyes. When he was preaching, it could hardly be seen, but in the closeness of private
conversation it was disagreeable.

"Oh,--indeed!" said Lizzie, with a look of astonishment, perfectly well assumed. She had already
begun to consider whether, after all, Mr. Emilius--would do.

"Yes;--Lady Eustace; it is so. You and I have known each other now for many months, and I have
received the most unaffected pleasure from the acquaintance,--may I not say from the intimacy
which has sprung up between us?" Lizzie did not forbid the use of the pleasant word, but merely
bowed. "I think that, as a devoted friend and a clergyman, I shall not be thought to be intruding
on private ground in saying that circumstances have made me aware of the details of the robberies
by which you have been so cruelly persecuted." So the man had come about the diamonds, and
not to make an offer! Lizzie raised her eyebrows and bowed her head with the slightest possible
motion. "I do not know how far your friends or the public may condemn you, but--"

"My friends don't condemn me at all, sir."

"I am so glad to hear it!"

"Nobody has dared to condemn me, except this impudent woman here, who wants an excuse for not
paying me what she owes me."

"I am delighted. I was going to explain that although I am aware you have infringed the letter
of the law, and made yourself liable to proceedings which may, perhaps, be unpleasant--"

"I ain't liable to anything unpleasant at all, Mr. Emilius."

"Then my mind is greatly relieved. I was about to remark, having heard in the outer world that
there were those who ventured to accuse you of--of perjury--"

"Nobody has dared to accuse me of anything. What makes you come here and say such things?"

"Ah,--Lady Eustace. It is because these calumnies are spoken so openly behind your back."

"Who speaks them? Mrs. Carbuncle, and Lord George Carruthers;--my enemies."

Mr. Emilius was beginning to feel that he was not making progress. "I was on the point of observing
to you that according to the view of the matter which I, as a clergyman, have taken, you were
altogether justified in the steps which you took for the protection of property which was your
own, but which had been attacked by designing persons."

"Of course I was justified," said Lizzie.

"You know best, Lady Eustace, whether any assistance I can offer will avail you anything."

"I don't want any assistance, Mr. Emilius,--thank you."

"I certainly have been given to understand that they who ought to stand by you with the closest
devotion have, in this period of what I may, perhaps, call--tribulation, deserted your side
with cold selfishness."

"But there isn't any tribulation, and nobody has deserted my side."

"I was told that Lord Fawn--"

"Lord Fawn is an idiot."

"Quite so;--no doubt."

"And I have deserted him. I wrote to him this very morning, in answer to a pressing letter
from him to renew our engagement, to tell him that that was out of the question. I despise
Lord Fawn, and my heart never can be given where my respect does not accompany it."

"A noble sentiment, Lady Eustace, which I reciprocate completely. And now, to come to what
I may call the inner purport of my visit to you this morning, the sweet cause of my attendance
on you, let me assure you that I should not now offer you my heart, unless with my heart went
the most perfect respect and esteem which any man ever felt for a woman." Mr. Emilius had found
the necessity of coming to the point by some direct road, as the lady had refused to allow
him to lead up to it in the manner he had proposed to himself. He still thought that what he
had said might be efficacious, as he did not for a moment believe her assertions as to her
own friends, and the non-existence of any trouble as to the oaths which she had falsely sworn.
But she carried the matter with a better courage than he had expected to find, and drove him
out of his intended line of approach. He had, however, seized his opportunity without losing
much time.

"What on earth do you mean, Mr. Emilius?" she said.

"I mean to lay my heart, my hand, my fortunes, my profession, my career at your feet. I make
bold to say of myself that I have, by my own unaided eloquence and intelligence, won for myself
a great position in this swarming metropolis. Lady Eustace, I know your great rank. I feel
your transcendent beauty,--ah, too acutely. I have been told that you are rich. But I, myself,
who venture to approach you as a suitor for your hand, am also somebody in the world. The blood
that runs in my veins is as illustrious as your own, having descended to me from the great
and ancient nobles of my native country. The profession which I have adopted is the grandest
which ever filled the heart of man with aspirations. I have barely turned my thirty-second
year, and I am known as the greatest preacher of my day, though I preach in a language which
is not my own. Your House of Lords would be open to me as a spiritual peer, would I condescend
to come to terms with those who crave the assistance which I could give them. I can move the
masses. I can touch the hearts of men. And in this great assemblage of mankind which you call
London, I can choose my own society among the highest of the land. Lady Eustace, will you share
with me my career and my fortunes? I ask you, because you are the only woman whom my heart
has stooped to love."

The man was a nasty, greasy, lying, squinting Jew preacher; an impostor, over forty years of
age, whose greatest social success had been achieved when, through the agency of Mrs. Carbuncle,
he made his way into Portray Castle. He was about as near an English mitre as had been that
great man of a past generation, the Deputy Shepherd. He was a creature to loathe,--because
he was greasy, and a liar, and an impostor. But there was a certain manliness in him. He was
not afraid of the woman; and in pleading his cause with her he could stand up for himself courageously.
He had studied his speech, and having studied it, he knew how to utter the words. He did not
blush, nor stammer, nor cringe. Of grandfather or grandmother belonging to himself he had probably
never heard, but he could so speak of his noble ancestors as to produce belief in Lizzie's
mind. And he almost succeeded in convincing her that he was, by the consent of mankind, the
greatest preacher of the day. While he was making his speech she almost liked his squint. She
certainly liked the grease and nastiness. Presuming, as she naturally did, that something of
what he said was false, she liked the lies. There was a dash of poetry about him; and poetry,
as she thought, was not compatible with humdrum truth. A man, to be a man in her eyes, should
be able to swear that all his geese are swans;--should be able to reckon his swans by the dozen,
though he have not a feather belonging to him, even from a goose's wing. She liked his audacity;
and then, when he was making love, he was not afraid of talking out boldly about his heart.
Nevertheless he was only Mr. Emilius, the clergyman; and she had means of knowing that his
income was not generous. Though she admired his manner and his language, she was quite aware
that he was in pursuit of her money. And from the moment in which she first understood his
object, she was resolved that she would never become the wife of Mr. Emilius as long as there
was a hope as to Frank Greystock.

"I was told, Mr. Emilius," she said, "that some time since you used to have a wife."

"It was a falsehood, Lady Eustace. From motives of pure charity I gave a home to a distant
cousin. I was then in a land of strangers, and my life was misinterpreted. I made no complaint,
but sent the lady back to her native country. My compassion could supply her wants there as
well as here."

"Then you still support her?"

Mr. Emilius bethought himself for a moment. There might be danger in asserting that he was
subject to such an encumbrance. "I did do so," he answered, "till she found a congenial home
as the wife of an honest man."

"Oh, indeed. I'm quite glad to hear that."

"And now, Lady Eustace, may I venture to hope for a favourable answer?"

Upon this, Lizzie made him a speech as long and almost as well-turned as his own. Her heart
had of late been subject to many vicissitudes. She had lost the dearest husband that a woman
had ever worshipped. She had ventured, for purposes with reference to her child which she could
not now explain, to think once again of matrimony with a man of high rank, but who had turned
out to be unworthy of her. She had receded;--Lizzie, as she said this, acted the part of receding
with a fine expression of scornful face;--and after that she was unwilling to entertain any
further idea of marriage. Upon hearing this, Mr. Emilius bowed low, and before the street-door
was closed against him had begun to calculate how much a journey to Scotland would cost him.

CHAPTER LXXIV

Lizzie at the Police-Court

On the Wednesday and Thursday Lizzie had been triumphant; for she had certainly come out unscathed
from Mr. Camperdown's chambers, and a lady may surely be said to triumph when a gentleman lays
his hand, his heart, his fortunes, and all that he has got, at her feet. But when the Friday
came, though she was determined to be brave, her heart did sink within her bosom. She understood
well that she would be called upon to admit in public the falseness of the oaths she had sworn
upon two occasions; and that, though she would not be made amenable to any absolute punishment
for her perjury, she would be subject to very damaging remarks from the magistrate, and probably
also from some lawyers employed to defend the prisoners. She went to bed in fairly good spirits,
but in the morning she was cowed and unhappy. She dressed herself from head to foot in black,
and prepared for herself a heavy black veil. She had ordered from the livery stable a brougham
for the occasion, thinking it wise to avoid the display of her own carriage. She breakfasted
early, and then took a large glass of wine to support her. When Frank called for her at a quarter
to ten, she was quite ready, and grasped his hand almost without a word. But she looked into
his face with her eyes filled with tears. "It will soon be over," he said. She pressed his
hand, and made him a sign to show that she was ready to follow him to the door. "The case will
come on at once," he said, "so that you will not be kept waiting."

"Oh, you are so good;--so good to me." She pressed his arm, and did not speak another word
on their way to the police-court.

There was a great crowd about the office, which was in a little by-street, and so circumstanced
that Lizzie's brougham could hardly make its way up to the door. But way was at once made for
her when Frank handed her out of it, and the policemen about the place were as courteous to
her as though she had been the Lord Chancellor's wife. Evil-doing will be spoken of with bated
breath and soft words even by policemen, when the evil-doer comes in a carriage, and with a
title. Lizzie was led at once into a private room, and told that she would be kept there only
a very few minutes. Frank made his way into the court and found that two magistrates had just
seated themselves on the bench. One would have sufficed for the occasion; but this was a case
of great interest, and even police-magistrates are human in their interests. Greystock was
allowed to get round to the bench, and to whisper a word or two to the gentleman who was to
preside. The magistrate nodded his head, and then the case began.

The unfortunate Mr. Benjamin had been sent back in durance vile from Vienna, and was present
in the court. With him, as joint malefactor, stood Mr. Smiler, the great housebreaker, a huge,
ugly, resolute-looking scoundrel, possessed of enormous strength, who was very intimately known
to the police, with whom he had had various dealings since he had been turned out upon the
town to earn his bread some fifteen years before. Indeed, long before that he had known the
police. As far as his memory went back he had always known them. But the sportive industry
of his boyish years was not now counted up against him. In the last fifteen years his biography
had been written with all the accuracy due to the achievements of a great man; and during those
hundred and eighty months he had spent over one hundred in prison, and had been convicted twenty-three
times. He was now growing old,--as a thief; and it was thought by his friends that he would
be settled for life in some quiet retreat. Mr. Benjamin was a very respectable-looking man
of about fifty, with slightly grizzled hair, with excellent black clothes, showing, by a surprised
air, his great astonishment at finding himself in such a position. He spoke constantly, both
to his attorney and to the barrister who was to show cause why he should not be committed,
and throughout the whole morning was very busy. Smiler, who was quite at home, and who understood
his position, never said a word to any one. He stood, perfectly straight, looking at the magistrate,
and never for a moment leaning on the rail before him during the four hours that the case consumed.
Once, when his friend, Billy Cann, was brought into court to give evidence against him, dressed
up to the eyes, serene and sleek as when we saw him once before at the "Rising Sun," in Meek
Street, Smiler turned a glance upon him which, to the eyes of all present, contained a threat
of most bloody revenge. But Billy knew the advantages of his situation, and nodded at his old
comrade, and smiled. His old comrade was very much stronger than he, and possessed of many
natural advantages; but, perhaps, upon the whole, his old comrade had been the less intelligent
thief of the two. It was thus that the bystanders read the meaning of Billy's smile.

The case was opened very shortly and very clearly by the gentleman who was employed for the
prosecution. It would all, he said, have laid in a nutshell, had it not been complicated by
a previous robbery at Carlisle. Were it necessary, he said, there would be no difficulty in
convicting the prisoners for that offence also, but it had been thought advisable to confine
the prosecution to the act of burglary committed in Hertford Street. He stated the facts of
what had happened at Carlisle, merely for explanation, but would state nothing that could not
be proved. Then he told all that the reader knows about the iron box. But the diamonds were
not then in the box,--and he told that story also, treating Lizzie with great tenderness as
he did so. Lizzie, all this time, was sitting behind her veil in the private room, and did
not hear a word of what was going on. Then he came to the robbery in Hertford Street. He would
prove by Lady Eustace that the diamonds were left by her in a locked desk,--were so deposited,
though all her friends believed them to have been taken at Carlisle; and he would, moreover,
prove by accomplices that they were stolen by two men,--the younger prisoner at the bar being
one of them, and the witness who would be adduced, the other,--that they were given up by these
men to the elder prisoner, and that a certain sum had been paid by him for the execution of
the two robberies. There was much more of it;--but to the reader, who knows it all, it would
be but a thrice-told tale. He then said that he first proposed to take the evidence of Lady
Eustace, the lady who had been in possession of the diamonds when they were stolen. Then Frank
Greystock left the court, and returned with poor Lizzie on his arm.

