I found my way to the church; for there is always something to see about a church, whether
living worshippers or dead men's tombs; you find there the deadliest earnest, and the hollowest
deceit; and even where it is not a piece of history, it will be certain to leak out some contemporary
gossip.  It was scarcely so cold in the church as it was without, but it looked colder.  The
white nave was positively arctic to the eye; and the tawdriness of a continental altar looked
more forlorn than usual in the solitude and the bleak air.  Two priests sat in the chancel,
reading and waiting penitents; and out in the nave, one very old woman was engaged in her devotions.
It was a wonder how she was able to pass her beads when healthy young people were breathing
in their palms and slapping their chest; but though this concerned me, I was yet more dispirited
by the nature of her exercises.  She went from chair to chair, from altar to altar, circumnavigating
the church.  To each shrine she dedicated an equal number of beads and an equal length of time.
Like a prudent capitalist with a somewhat cynical view of the commercial prospect, she desired
to place her supplications in a great variety of heavenly securities.  She would risk nothing
on the credit of any single intercessor.  Out of the whole company of saints and angels, not
one but was to suppose himself her champion elect against the Great Assize!  I could only think
of it as a dull, transparent jugglery, based upon unconscious unbelief.

I had need of all my cerebral hygiene during that day's paddle: the old devotee stuck in my
throat sorely.  But I was soon in the seventh heaven of stupidity; and knew nothing but that
somebody was paddling a canoe, while I was counting his strokes and forgetting the hundreds.
I used sometimes to be afraid I should remember the hundreds; which would have made a toil
of a pleasure; but the terror was chimerical, they went out of my mind by enchantment, and
I knew no more than the man in the moon about my only occupation.

At Creil, where we stopped to lunch, we left the canoes in another floating lavatory, which,
as it was high noon, was packed with washerwomen, red-handed and loud-voiced; and they and
their broad jokes are about all I remember of the place.  I could look up my history-books,
if you were very anxious, and tell you a date or two; for it figured rather largely in the
English wars.  But I prefer to mention a girls' boarding-school, which had an interest for
us because it was a girls' boarding-school, and because we imagined we had rather an interest
for it.  At least--there were the girls about the garden; and here were we on the river; and
there was more than one handkerchief waved as we went by.  It caused quite a stir in my heart;
and yet how we should have wearied and despised each other, these girls and I, if we had been
introduced at a croquet-party!  But this is a fashion I love:  to kiss the hand or wave a handkerchief
to people I shall never see again, to play with possibility, and knock in a peg for fancy to
hang upon.  It gives the traveller a jog, reminds him that he is not a traveller everywhere,
and that his journey is no more than a siesta by the way on the real march of life.

