 But after he is
a considerable time, grateful of her affection, wrapped in the most convenient had found common
enjoyment of freedom better than in any previous relationship, He now began to feel it rise
to that well-known promising unrest, as it usually was to announce the imminent end of a love
relationship, an end that only in this Case seemed not at present be foreseen. Already he saw
himself in the spirit as fellow sufferers a childhood friend who ends up, years ago in a compound
of a similar nature, now as to lead listless father a retired, limited life was forced; and
many hours to it without intimations of this kind on the side of a graceful and gentle Being,
as it was Elise, a pleasure would have to grant began his boredom and to put pain. Well it was
the ability and what he might still count higher let the self-respect, Elise notice of such moods
nothing, after all, but had to the effect, often visit him again the sociability of those middle-class
circles , Where he can in the course of last year, had almost completely alienated. And when him
on the occasion of a dance party a much sought-after young lady, the daughter of a wealthy factory
owner, entgegenkam with remarkably friendly, and he suddenly so the slight possibility of
a compound saw before him that his position and his wealth was appropriate, he began that others,
who started as a cheerful casual adventure to feel as an annoying ankle, a young man to shake
off the safe of its benefits expected. But the smiling calm with the Elise received him again
and again, its always consistent Dedication in becoming sparser hours of being together, the
unsuspecting security, with him from her arms into a world unknown to her, dismissed all this he
did not press only each time the parting word from his lips, to which he was always determined before believed,
but filled him with a sort of agonizing pity, given very little conscious expressions such
a warm trusting woman like Elise just as a new and more intimate token of his affection had to
appear. And so it was then that Elise never felt hot adored by him as when he spoke of a new
encounter with Adele, when shaken by the memory of süßfragender Looks auspicious handshakes and more
recently the noise of the first secret bride kisses in that silence, he alone, and his faithless
love, dedicated home was returned, and instead with the farewell, which he still carried on the
threshold, leaving the beloved Alfred each morning with renewed vows eternal, a party.

For days this would be contrary by both adventure and at last only remained to decide which Evening
for the debate has become inevitable with Elise would be better selected, before or after the
engagement with the needle; and the first of these evenings, as were
yet shall be before him, was Alfred appeared in a game through the
habit of his almost double reassured of soul in the beloved.

He was pale as he had never before seen sit in the corner of the divan, and brought they are
not as usual at his entrance, to offer him the forehead and mouth to Willkommskuß, but showed
a weary, forced smile a little, so that together with a sense of
relief the presumption in Alfred ascended the news of his impending
engagement was despite of confidentiality to the enigmatic nature
of the rumors but already up to her stocky.

But its the rush of questions, he knew nothing else but that Elise, what they hitherto kept him,
suffer from time to time from heart spasms, of which they would otherwise rapidly used to recover,
but its consequences threaten to stop this time more than ever. Alfred, conscious of his culpable intentions,
this opening was touched so violent that he is doing in terms of participation, in proofs of
kindness were not enough, and before Midnight, without understanding how it got this far, he
had a plan with the Elise joint trip designed on which they surely have found permanent recovery
of their evil coincidences should.
 He knew he had been foolish. In a rage of self pity and feelings of
failure, that is ridiculous even to himself, he thinks back upon the occasion. There had been a little
girl, pale and wan. She had been standing in the hallway. On her feet were no shoes and she was wearing
a thin white garment of some kind. He had been starting out when he saw her there looking
up at the sky. There was a coating of snow atop the roofs and a blanket of snow over the forest.
The garden also was enhanced with snow. The whole scene looked as if you could see through a glass
bell so intense was the variety of light within the panorama. You could even see a flash of fire burning
in the distance.

He decided to speak to the girl.

He was hesitant and had to exert some effort, but felt that a mystic power about the child
would lend itself to him and make it easier.

So he said to the girl, "what is your name?"

He walked up to her more closely at which she gazed up at him in a
contemptuous manner, somehow quiet and somehow ashamed. Then she
told him that her name was Ruth. At this point she exhibited something
of a regal stance. He repeated her name, and he seemed as if he did
not quite understand what she had said.

It was then that eerily familiar
and anxious look came over her that forced the man to look away. He
could not even know what was going on in his own mind.

THIRD VISIT TO EUROPE.--LADY BYRON ON "THE MINISTER'S WOOING."--SOME FOREIGN PEOPLE AND THINGS
AS THEY APPEARED TO PROFESSOR STOWE.--A WINTER IN ITALY.--THINGS UNSEEN AND UNREVEALED.--SPECULATIONS
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM.--JOHN RUSKIN.--MRS. BROWNING.--THE RETURN TO AMERICA.--LETTERS TO
DR. HOLMES

CHAPTER XVI. Behind nodded the rough skull Mouton,
and a hairy hand led to the slim of the youth. was no doubt because a painting lesson given.
Mouton the poodle was sitting on a high chair with red pillow next to it, wise and agree, as he
approved the good greatly delight. I marked my Book and went over.

I was in my felt boots of the fun painting people and not only heard of the Mouton Poodle perceived,
but of his greeting, without leaving the cushion on a heavy fronds limited. I settled down quietly
in a chair to the most wonderful conversations To attend which ever led with you in your botanical
garden, Sire. First, however, considered I from my angle the picture that was on the easel, breathing
in the smell, The quick and generous handled Oil paints spread. What does it represent? Do
nothing: an evening mood, a calm river, is the reflection of some of the resolved red clouds
and a mossy Brueckenbogens. In the river were two cows, a boozing, the other the still water from
the mouth corners, looking contemplative troff. Of course, did Mouton the best part. But the boy
had a certain Pinselfuehrung which only the result could be some without my knowledge with Mouton
vermalt hour. How much or little he learned have liked, even the illusion of success, participation
in an ingenious activity, an easy and lucky generation, a boldness and arbitrariness of the creative
Hand, which was probably made by the unimaginative notion and no sooner he admired as a miracle,
let the boys after so many losses of a Selbstgefuehls feel great bliss. The warmest blood reddened
his cheeks chaste, and a Zeal inspired his hand, that nothing about it and I was a bright
paternal Felt joy.

Meanwhile, the boy explained Mouton forms the broad and serious sign of a changing Cow and concluded
by saying that it will not go about it as the figure of the bull.

This was the height of creation. He would say, to be exact, of nature, not the Creation, for
the latter he did not know, neither the name nor the thing, because he neglected and had grown up
without a catechism.

Little lucky enough the serenity offered as a vibrant source of the boy . Elicit Respect Mouton before
the cattle strange finding, Julian told innocent: 'Pere Amiel has taught us this morning that the
ancient Egyptians worshiped the bull divine.

I think that's funny! "

'Zounds', the painter replied passionately,
"if they were right. If I was
silent in the company or limited my speech to the next to nothing Ignorant or to say insidious, so it
was just right, because a funny or bright it would have just worried. So I'm come through well.
But my child? Julian is the make as the son of his father in the world a figure. Will he do
that? He learns incredibly difficult. In zeal, he can not miss it, not really, because it is
a brave Child ... The marshal will marry again, and any intelligent woman is his appointable sons
give. Now I do not want the Julian something extraordinary would, so what would be impossible,
just that he does not suffer too hard humiliations, if he falls short of its siblings. Now
this is your thing, Fagon. You will also see that he was not excessive exercise. Let this not the
eye, I please! Because the marshal looks over this you know him. He has the war in the head,
the boundaries, the fortresses ... Even over the meal he is engrossed in his business the king
of France and indispensable man, can be suddenly get a card if he does not then jump up, or
annoyed about some mornings discovered Negligence of its writers, which is the pervasive neglect
of duty Nor are allowed to leave the slightest anymore. Is it by chance a cup or elk damage
in two, the Crank forget to scold. Usually he sits monosyllables or silence at the table, with
a furrowed brow, without leave with the child, depends on the each of his eyes, without asking
about his little progress because it implies: a self-Boufflers do his duty.
 It could only be military. Among other things, he did not want to. The Comtur welcomed us expansively,
but Guntram was uneasy until we reached a spot some distance from the target. He did not manage
to get a single shot on the target. That is because he is extremely short sighted. He bit his lip
and became terribly uptight about it. This in turn made his hand shake, while I got my shot on the
black area because I was able to look carefully and aim. The Comtur was called away and Guntram
sent his servant to fetch some wine. He drank a few glasses and his hand began to shake. With bulging
eyes and a distorted facial expression, he threw his pistol onto
the lawn.

He then picked it up, loaded it and loaded my pistol, setting off
for the wooded area of the park with me.

In a clearing he raised one pistol and offered me the other. "I am going to end this!" he
shouted, in an agitated way. I am blind, and blind men are no use in war. If I am no use in war,
then I don't want to live! You are coming with me! You, too, are no good, even though you are a
good shot, because you are the greatest fool, a laughing stock for the whole world!" "And
what about God?" I asked. "What kind of God is that," he said scornfully, shaking his fist at the heavens,
"who gives me a lust for war and makes me blind, and who gives you
a body without a spirit."

We fought and I disarmed him, and he marched off into the bushes. Ever since that day I have
been unhappy because Guntram had said out loud the very thing that
I had been trying my very best to keep hidden from myself. You honor and loyalty, and their need for His Majesty. Among
those who surround them, no abundance in it. Stables, hunt or guard, a service is found, as you
know to do it. Your birth is up front instead of his own merit aid and abet another, which will make
you humble. The majesty, if it has worked in the counsel tired, loves to set up an informal
word to a taciturn and absolutely faithful. You are too easy to mix up in an intrigue, it will
judge you based on no intrigue. One is how the world is, Hoehn behind your back and scoff, but
you do not look around. You'll be good and just quit on your servant and not a day without
a blessing. By the way: do without! "

The boy looked at me with believing eyes. 'Those are the words of
the Gospel, "he said.

'Opts not everyone,' I joked, 'even your patroness, Madame de Maintenon, the king himself to a jewelry
or a province? I, Fagon, also not waived, perhaps more bitter than you, though in my own way? Orphaned,
poor, with a wretched body, which grew together just at your age from day to day and bent,
I have not chosen a strict Muse, science? Do you think I had no heart, no sense? A tender heart,
Julian - and for renouncing forever the biggest attraction of the existence of love, what is your
slender stature and empty your blond head just started up so '"Fagon
was what had made him perhaps enjoyments hard in his youth! before
with such a strange emotion, that it amused the king and flattered
the Marquise.

"I accompanied them to Julian at the door and pulled it with plums.
'You have done quickly,' I said, 'There is come, he replied without
embarrassment.

'They have been tortured with the spirit, she wept, and I took a
confidence.

They, too, like my mother. " An aria from some opera lost my childhood humming, the only one that
I am powerful, I went back to my bench in front of the Orangerie. 'He must be equal to the
field', I said to myself.

 If I should die - 'He smiled. 'Know you, Mr. Fagon of what in today Jesuit has happened?
Let my father know anything about it! never! never! There it would kill! " I promised him
and kept his word, though it cost me. His
tale leads us both to the limits of our time and his reliability. No more of him. However, for
all you know of the young Boufflers, he may have been a good boy.
