WILLIAM OF GERMANY

by

STANLEY SHAW, LL.D. Trinity College Dublin

WITH A FRONTISPIECE

1913

The Frontispiece is from a photograph by E. Bieber, of Berlin

CONTENTS
                                                           PAGE

    I.  INTRODUCTORY.......................................   1

   II.  YOUTH (1859-1881)..................................  10

  III.  PRE-ACCESSION DAYS (1881-1887).....................  42

   IV.  "VON GOTTES GNADEN"................................  56

    V.  THE ACCESSION (1888-1890)..........................  69

   VI.  THE COURT OF THE EMPEROR........................... 105

  VII.  "DROPPING THE PILOT"............................... 125

 VIII.  SPACIOUS TIMES (1891-1899)......................... 144

   IX.  THE NEW CENTURY (1900-1901)........................ 189

    X.  THE EMPEROR AND THE ARTS........................... 205

   XI.  THE NEW CENTURY--continued (1902-1904)........... 237

  XII.  MOROCCO (1905)..................................... 255

 XIII.  BEFORE THE "NOVEMBER STORM" (1906-1907)............ 275

  XIV.  THE NOVEMBER STORM (1908).......................... 289

   XV.  AFTER THE STORM (1909-1913)........................ 321

  XVI.  THE EMPEROR TO-DAY................................. 342

 INDEX  ................................................... 391

I. INTRODUCTORY.

William the Second, German Emperor and King of Prussia, Burgrave of Nürnberg, Margrave of Brandenburg,
Landgrave of Hessen and Thuringia, Prince of Orange, Knight of the Garter and Field-Marshal
of Great Britain, etc., was born in Berlin on January 27, 1859, and ascended the throne on
June 15, 1888. He is, therefore, fifty-four years old in the present year of his Jubilee, 1913,
and his reign--happily yet unfinished--has extended over a quarter of a century.

The Englishman who would understand the Emperor and his time must imagine a country with a
monarchy, a government, and a people--in short, a political system--almost entirely different
from his own. In Germany, paradoxical though it may sound to English ears, there is neither
a government nor a people. The word "government" occurs only once in the Imperial Constitution,
the Magna Charta of modern Germans, which in 1870 settled the relations between the Emperor
and what the Englishman calls the "people," and then only in an unimportant context joined
to the word "federal."

In Germany, instead of "the people" the Englishman speaks of when he talks politics, and the
democratic orator, Mr. Bryan, in America is fond of calling the "peopul," there is a "folk,"
who neither claim to be, nor apparently wish to be, a "people" in the English sense. The German
folk have their traditions as the English people have traditions, and their place in the political
system as the English people have; but both traditions and place are wholly different from
those of the English people; indeed, it may be said are just the reverse of them.

The German Emperor believes, and assumes his people to believe, that the Hollenzollern monarch
is specially chosen by Heaven to guide and govern a folk entrusted to him as the talent was
entrusted to the steward in Scripture. Until 1848, a little over sixty years ago, the Emperor
(at that time only King of Prussia) was an absolute, or almost absolute, monarch, supported
by soldiers and police, and his wishes were practically law to the folk. In that year, however,
owing to the influence of the French Revolution, the King by the gift of a Constitution, abandoned
part of his powers, but not any governing powers, to the folk in the form of a parliament,
with permission to make laws for itself, though not for him. To pass them, that is; for they
were not to carry the laws into execution--that was a matter the King kept, as the Emperor
does still, in his own hands.

The business of making laws being, as experience shows, provocative of discussion, discussion
of argument, and argument of controversy, there now arose a dozen or more parties in the Parliament,
each with its own set of controversial opinions, and these the parties applied to the novel
and interesting occupation of law-making.

However, it did not matter much to the King, so long as the folk did not ask for further, or
worse still, as occurred in England, for all his powers; and accordingly the parties continued
their discussions, as they do to-day, sometimes accepting and sometimes rejecting their own
or the King's suggestions about law-making. Generally speaking, the relation is not unlike
that established by the dame who said to her husband, "When we are of the same opinion, you
are right, but when we are of different opinions, I am right." If the Parliament does not agree
with the Emperor, the Emperor dissolves it.

These parties, from the situation of their seats in a parliament of 397 deputies, became known
as the parties of the Right, or Conservative parties, and the parties of the Left, or Liberal
parties. Between them sat the members of the Centre, who, as representing the Catholic populations
of Germany--roughly, twenty-two millions out of sixty-six--became a powerful and unchanging
phalanx of a hundred deputies, which had interests and tactics of its own independently of
Right or Left.

By and by, one of the parties of the Left, representing the classes who work with their hands
as distinguished from the classes who work with their heads, thought they would like to live
under a political system of their own making and began to show a strong desire to take all
power from the King and from the Parliament too. They agitated and organized, and organized
and agitated, until at length, having settled on what was found to be an attractive theory,
they made a wholly separate party, almost a people and parliament of their own. This is known
as the Social Democracy, with, at present, no deputies.

Such, in a comparatively few sentences, is the political state of things in Germany. It might
indeed be expressed in still fewer words, as follows: Heaven gave the royal house of Hohenzollern,
as a present, a folk. The Hohenzollerns gave the folk, as a present, a parliament, a power
to make laws without the power of executing them. The Social Democrats broke off from the folk
and took an anti-Hohenzollern and anti-popular attitude, and the folk in their Parliament divided
into parties to pass the time, and--of course--make laws.

This may seem to be treating an important subject with levity. It is intended merely as a statement
of the facts. The system in Germany works well, to an Englishman indeed surprisingly so. In
England there is no Heaven-appointed king; all the powers of the King, both that of making
laws and of administering them, have long ago been taken by the people from the King and entrusted
by them to a parliament, the majority of whom, called the Government, represent the majority
of the electing voters. In the case of Germany the folk have surrendered some of what an Englishman
would term their "liberties," for example, the right to govern, to the King, to be used for
the common good; whereas in the case of England, the people do not think it needful to surrender
any of their liberties, least of all the government of their country, in order to attain the
same end.

Thus, while the German Emperor and the German folk have the same aims as the English King and
the English people, the common weal and the fair fame of their respective countries, the two
monarchs and the two peoples have agreed on almost contrary ways of trying to secure them.

The political system of Germany has had to be sketched introductorily as for the Englishman,
a necessary preliminary to an understanding of the German Emperor's character and policy. One
of the most important results of the character and policy is the state of Anglo-German relations;
and the writer is convinced that if the character and policy were better and more generally
known there would be no estrangement between the two countries, but, much more probably, mutual
respect and mutual good-will.

With the growth of this knowledge, the writer is tempted to believe, would cease a delusion
that appears to exist in the minds, or rather the imaginations, of two great peoples, the delusion
that the highest national interests of both are fundamentally irreconcilable, and that the
policies of their Governments are fundamentally opposed. 

Anyhow she does not know him the way I do. Yesterday I was with the Warths all day. We played
Place for the King and Robert caught me and I had to give him a kiss. And Erna said, that doesn't
count, for I had let myself be caught. But Robert got savage and said: Erna is a perfect nuisance,
she spoils everyone's pleasure. He's quite right, but there's some one else just as bad. But I do
hope Erna has not told Dora about the kiss. If she has everyone will
know and I shouldn't like that. The English Government declares it a vital necessity for an insular Power like
Great Britain, with colonies and duties appertaining to their possession in all, and the most
distant, parts of the world, to have a navy twice as powerful as that of any other possibly
hostile Power. The ordinary German immediately cries out that England is planning to attack
him, to annihilate his fleet, destroy his commerce, and diminish his prestige among the nations.
The German Government repeatedly declares that the German fleet is intended for defence not
aggression, that Germany does not aim at the seizure of other people's property, but at protecting
her growing commerce, at standing by her subjects in all parts of the world if subjected to
injury or insult, and at increasing her prestige, and with it her power for good, in the family
of nations. The ordinary Englishman immediately cries out that Germany is seeking to dispute
his maritime supremacy, to rob him of his colonies, and to appropriate his trade. Is it not
conceivable that both Governments are telling the truth, and that their designs are no more
and no less than the Governments represent them to be? The necessity for Great Britain possessing
an all-powerful fleet that will keep her in touch with her colonies if she is not to lose them
altogether, is self-evident, and understood by even the most Chauvinistic German. The necessity
for Germany's possessing a fleet strong enough to make her rights respected is as self-evident.
Moreover, if Germany's fleet is a luxury, as Mr. Winston Churchill says it is, she deserves
and can afford it. As a nation she has prospered and grown great, not by a policy of war and
conquest, but by hard work, thrift, self-denial, fidelity to international engagements, well-planned
instruction, and first-rate organization. Why should she not, if she thinks it advisable and
is willing to spend the money on it, supply herself with an arm of defence in proportion to
her size, her prosperity, and her desert? It may be that, as Mr. Norman Angell holds, the entire
policy of great armaments is based on economic error; but unless and until it is clear that
the German navy is intended for aggression, its growth may be viewed by the rest of the world
with equanimity, and by the Englishman, as a connoisseur in such matters, with admiration as
well. A man may buy a motor-car which his friends and neighbours think must be costly and pretentious
beyond his means; but that is his business; and if the man finds that, owing to good management
and industry and skill, his business is growing and that a motor-car is, though in some not
absolutely clear and definite way, of advantage to him in business and satisfying to his legitimate
pride--why on earth should he not buy or build it?

