H. W. L.
     TWO POEMS TO HARRIET BEECHER STOWE ON HER SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY.
          I. AT THE SUMMIT
          II. THE WORLD'S HOMAGE
     A WELCOME TO DR. BENJAMIN APTHORP GOULD
     TO FREDERICK HENRY HEDGE ON HIS EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY
     TO JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL
     TO JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER ON HIS EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY
     PRELUDE TO A VOLUME PRINTED IN RAISED LETTERS
     FOR THE BLIND
     BOSTON TO FLORENCE
     AT THE UNITARIAN FESTIVAL, MARCH 8, 1882
     POEM FOR THE TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FOUNDING OF
          HARVARD COLLEGE
     POST-PRANDIAL: PHI BETA KAPPA, 1881
     THE FLANEUR: DURING THE TRANSIT OF VENUS, 1882
     AVE
     KING'S CHAPEL READ AT THE TWO HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY
     HYMN FOR THE SAME OCCASION
     HYMN.--THE WORD OF PROMISE
     HYMN READ AT THE DEDICATION OF THE OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES HOSPITAL AT
     HUDSON, WISCONSIN, JUNE 7, 1887
     ON THE DEATH OF PRESIDENT GARFIELD
     THE GOLDEN FLOWER
     HAIL, COLUMBIA!
     POEM FOR THE DEDICATION OF THE FOUNTAIN AT STRATFORD-ON-AVON,
     PRESENTED
          BY GEORGE CHILDS, OF PHILADELPHIA
     TO THE POETS WHO ONLY READ AND LISTEN
     FOR THE DEDICATION OF THE NEW CITY LIBRARY
     FOR THE WINDOW IN ST. MARGARET'S
     JAMES RUSSELL LO WELL: 1819-1891

AT MY FIRESIDE

ALONE, beneath the darkened sky, With saddened heart and unstrung lyre, I heap the spoils of
years gone by, And leave them with a long-drawn sigh, Like drift-wood brands that glimmering
lie, Before the ashes hide the fire.

Let not these slow declining days The rosy light of dawn outlast; Still round my lonely hearth
it plays, And gilds the east with borrowed rays, While memory's mirrored sunset blaze Flames
on the windows of the past.

March 1, 1888.

AT THE SATURDAY CLUB THIS is our place of meeting; opposite That towered and pillared building:
look at it; King's Chapel in the Second George's day, Rebellion stole its regal name away,--
Stone Chapel sounded better; but at last The poisoned name of our provincial past Had lost
its ancient venom; then once more Stone Chapel was King's Chapel as before. (So let rechristened
North Street, when it can, Bring back the days of Marlborough and Queen Anne!) Next the old
church your wandering eye will meet-- A granite pile that stares upon the street-- Our civic
temple; slanderous tongues have said Its shape was modelled from St. Botolph's head, Lofty,
but narrow; jealous passers-by Say Boston always held her head too high. Turn half-way round,
and let your look survey The white facade that gleams across the way,-- The many-windowed building,
tall and wide, The palace-inn that shows its northern side In grateful shadow when the sunbeams
beat The granite wall in summer's scorching heat. This is the place; whether its name you spell
Tavern, or caravansera, or hotel. Would I could steal its echoes! you should find Such store
of vanished pleasures brought to mind Such feasts! the laughs of many a jocund hour That shook
the mortar from King George's tower; Such guests! What famous names its record boasts, Whose
owners wander in the mob of ghosts! Such stories! Every beam and plank is filled With juicy
wit the joyous talkers spilled, Ready to ooze, as once the mountain pine The floors are laid
with oozed its turpentine!

A month had flitted since The Club had met; The day came round; I found the table set, The
waiters lounging round the marble stairs, Empty as yet the double row of chairs. I was a full
half hour before the rest, Alone, the banquet-chamber's single guest. So from the table's side
a chair I took, And having neither company nor book To keep me waking, by degrees there crept
A torpor over me,--in short, I slept.

Loosed from its chain, along the wreck-strown track Of the dead years my soul goes travelling
back; My ghosts take on their robes of flesh; it seems Dreaming is life; nay, life less life
than dreams, So real are the shapes that meet my eyes. They bring no sense of wonder, no surprise,
No hint of other than an earth-born source; All seems plain daylight, everything of course.

How dim the colors are, how poor and faint This palette of weak words with which I paint! Here
sit my friends; if I could fix them so As to my eyes they seem, my page would glow Like a queen's
missal, warm as if the brush Of Titian or Velasquez brought the flush Of life into their features.
Ay de mi! If syllables were pigments, you should see Such breathing portraitures as never man
Found in the Pitti or the Vatican.

Here sits our POET, Laureate, if you will. Long has he worn the wreath, and wears it still.
Dead? Nay, not so; and yet they say his bust Looks down on marbles covering royal dust, Kings
by the Grace of God, or Nature's grace; Dead! No! Alive! I see him in his place, Full-featured,
with the bloom that heaven denies Her children, pinched by cold New England skies, Too often,
while the nursery's happier few Win from a summer cloud its roseate hue. Kind, soft-voiced,
gentle, in his eye there shines The ray serene that filled Evangeline's. Modest he seems, not
shy; content to wait Amid the noisy clamor of debate The looked-for moment when a peaceful
word Smooths the rough ripples louder tongues have stirred. In every tone I mark his tender
grace And all his poems hinted in his face; What tranquil joy his friendly presence gives!
How could. I think him dead? He lives! He lives!

There, at the table's further end I see In his old place our Poet's vis-a-vis, The great PROFESSOR,
strong, broad-shouldered, square, In life's rich noontide, joyous, debonair. His social hour
no leaden care alloys, His laugh rings loud and mirthful as a boy's,-- That lusty laugh the
Puritan forgot,-- What ear has heard it and remembers not? How often, halting at some wide
crevasse Amid the windings of his Alpine pass, High up the cliffs, the climbing mountaineer,
Listening the far-off avalanche to hear, Silent, and leaning on his steel-shod staff, Has heard
that cheery voice, that ringing laugh, From the rude cabin whose nomadic walls Creep with the
moving glacier as it crawls How does vast Nature lead her living train In ordered sequence
through that spacious brain, As in the primal hour when Adam named The new-born tribes that
young creation claimed!-- How will her realm be darkened, losing thee, Her darling, whom we
call our AGASSIZ!

But who is he whose massive frame belies The maiden shyness of his downcast eyes? Who broods
in silence till, by questions pressed, Some answer struggles from his laboring breast? An artist
Nature meant to dwell apart, Locked in his studio with a human heart, Tracking its eaverned
passions to their lair, And all its throbbing mysteries laying bare. Count it no marvel that
he broods alone Over the heart he studies,--'t is his own; So in his page, whatever shape it
wear, The Essex wizard's shadowed self is there,-- The great ROMANCER, hid beneath his veil
Like the stern preacher of his sombre tale; Virile in strength, yet bashful as a girl, Prouder
than Hester, sensitive as Pearl.

From his mild throng of worshippers released, Our Concord Delphi sends its chosen priest, Prophet
or poet, mystic, sage, or seer, By every title always welcome here. Why that ethereal spirit's
frame describe? You know the race-marks of the Brahmin tribe, The spare, slight form, the sloping
shoulders' droop, The calm, scholastic mien, the clerkly stoop, The lines of thought the sharpened
features wear, Carved by the edge of keen New England air. List! for he speaks! As when a king
would choose The jewels for his bride, he might refuse This diamond for its flaw,--find that
less bright Than those, its fellows, and a pearl less white Than fits her snowy neck, and yet
at last, The fairest gems are chosen, and made fast In golden fetters; so, with light delays
He seeks the fittest word to fill his phrase; Nor vain nor idle his fastidious quest, His chosen
word is sure to prove the best. Where in the realm of thought, whose air is song, Does he,
the Buddha of the West, belong? He seems a winged Franklin, sweetly wise, Born to unlock the
secrets of the skies; And which the nobler calling,--if 't is fair Terrestrial with celestial
to compare,-- To guide the storm-cloud's elemental flame, Or walk the chambers whence the lightning
came, Amidst the sources of its subtile fire, And steal their effluence for his lips and lyre?
If lost at times in vague aerial flights, None treads with firmer footstep when he lights;
A soaring nature, ballasted with sense, Wisdom without her wrinkles or pretence, In every Bible
he has faith to read, And every altar helps to shape his creed. Ask you what name this prisoned
spirit bears While with ourselves this fleeting breath it shares? Till angels greet him with
a sweeter one In heaven, on earth we call him EMERSON.

I start; I wake; the vision is withdrawn; Its figures fading like the stars at dawn; Crossed
from the roll of life their cherished names, And memory's pictures fading in their frames;
Yet life is lovelier for these transient gleams Of buried friendships; blest is he who dreams!

OUR DEAD SINGER

H. W. L.

PRIDE of the sister realm so long our own, We claim with her that spotless fame of thine, White
as her snow and fragrant as her pine! Ours was thy birthplace, but in every zone Some wreath
of song thy liberal hand has thrown Breathes perfume from its blossoms, that entwine Where'er
the dewdrops fall, the sunbeams shine, On life's long path with tangled cares o'ergrown. Can
Art thy truthful counterfeit command,-- The silver-haloed features, tranquil, mild,-- Soften
the lips of bronze as when they smiled, Give warmth and pressure to the marble hand? Seek the
lost rainbow in the sky it spanned Farewell, sweet Singer! Heaven reclaims its child.

Carved from the block or cast in clinging mould, Will grateful Memory fondly try her best The
mortal vesture from decay to wrest; His look shall greet us, calm, but ah, how cold! No breath
can stir the brazen drapery's fold, No throb can heave the statue's stony breast; "He is not
here, but risen," will stand confest In all we miss, in all our eyes behold. How Nature loved
him! On his placid brow, Thought's ample dome, she set the sacred sign That marks the priesthood
of her holiest shrine, Nor asked a leaflet from the laurel's bough That envious Time might
clutch or disallow, To prove her chosen minstrel's song divine.

On many a saddened hearth the evening fire Burns paler as the children's hour draws near,--
That joyous hour his song made doubly dear,-- And tender memories touch the faltering choir.
He sings no more on earth; our vain desire Aches for the voice we loved so long to hear In
Dorian flute-notes breathing soft and clear,-- The sweet contralto that could never tire. Deafened
with listening to a harsher strain, The Maenad's scream, the stark barbarian's cry, Still for
those soothing, loving tones we sigh; Oh, for our vanished Orpheus once again! The shadowy
silence hears us call in vain! His lips are hushed; his song shall never die.

TWO POEMS TO HARRIET BEECHER STOWE

ON HER SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY, JUNE 14, 1882

I. AT THE SUMMIT

SISTER, we bid you welcome,--we who stand On the high table-land; We who have climbed life's
slippery Alpine slope, And rest, still leaning on the staff of hope, Looking along the silent
Mer de Glace, Leading our footsteps where the dark crevasse Yawns in the frozen sea we all
must pass,-- Sister, we clasp your hand!

Rest with us in the hour that Heaven has lent Before the swift descent. Look! the warm sunbeams
kiss the glittering ice; See! next the snow-drift blooms the edelweiss; The mated eagles fan
the frosty air; Life, beauty, love, around us everywhere, And, in their time, the darkening
hours that bear Sweet memories, peace, content.

Thrice welcome! shining names our missals show Amid their rubrics' glow, But search the blazoned
record's starry line, What halo's radiance fills the page like thine? Thou who by some celestial
clue couldst find The way to all the hearts of all mankind, On thee, already canonized, enshrined,
What more can Heaven bestow!

II.

A WELCOME TO DR. BENJAMIN APTHORP GOULD

ON HIS RETURN FROM SOUTH AMERICA

AFTER FIFTEEN YEARS DEVOTED TO CATALOGUING THE STARS OF THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE

Read at the Dinner given at the Hotel Vendome, May 6,1885.

ONCE more Orion and the sister Seven Look on thee from the skies that hailed thy birth,-- How
shall we welcome thee, whose home was heaven, From thy celestial wanderings back to earth?

Science has kept her midnight taper burning To greet thy coming with its vestal flame; Friendship
has murmured, "When art thou returning?" "Not yet! Not yet!" the answering message came.

Thine was unstinted zeal, unchilled devotion, While the blue realm had kingdoms to explore,--
Patience, like his who ploughed the unfurrowed ocean, Till o'er its margin loomed San Salvador.

Through the long nights I see thee ever waking, Thy footstool earth, thy roof the hemisphere,
While with thy griefs our weaker hearts are aching, Firm as thine equatorial's rock-based pier.

The souls that voyaged the azure depths before thee Watch with thy tireless vigils, all unseen,--
Tycho and Kepler bend benignant o'er thee, And with his toy-like tube the Florentine,--

He at whose word the orb that bore him shivered To find her central sovereignty disowned, While
the wan lips of priest and pontiff quivered, Their jargon stilled, their Baal disenthroned.

Flamsteed and Newton look with brows unclouded, Their strife forgotten with its faded scars,--
(Titans, who found the world of space too crowded To walk in peace among its myriad stars.)

All cluster round thee,--seers of earliest ages, Persians, Ionians, Mizraim's learned kings,
From the dim days of Shinar's hoary sages To his who weighed the planet's fluid rings.

And we, for whom the northern heavens are lighted, For whom the storm has passed, the sun has
smiled, Our clouds all scattered, all our stars united, We claim thee, clasp thee, like a long-lost
child.

Fresh from the spangled vault's o'er-arching splendor, Thy lonely pillar, thy revolving dome,
In heartfelt accents, proud, rejoicing, tender, We bid thee welcome to thine earthly home!

TO FREDERICK HENRY HEDGE

AT A DINNER GIVEN HIM ON HIS EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1885

With a bronze statuette of John of Bologna's Mercury, presented by a few friends.

FIT emblem for the altar's side, And him who serves its daily need, The stay, the solace, and
the guide Of mortal men, whate'er his creed!

Flamen or Auspex, Priest or Bonze, He feeds the upward-climbing fire, Still teaching, like
the deathless bronze, Man's noblest lesson,--to aspire.

Hermes lies prone by fallen Jove, Crushed are the wheels of Krishna's car, And o'er Dodona's
silent grove Streams the white, ray from Bethlehem's star.

Yet snatched from Time's relentless clutch, A godlike shape, that human hands Have fired with
Art's electric touch, The herald of Olympus stands.

Ask not what ore the furnace knew; Love mingled with the flowing mass, And lends its own unchanging
hue, Like gold in Corinth's molten brass.

Take then our gift; this airy form Whose bronze our benedictions gild, The hearts of all its
givers warm With love by freezing years unchilled.

With eye undimmed, with strength unworn, Still toiling in your Master's field, Before you wave
the growths unshorn, Their ripened harvest yet to yield.

True servant of the Heavenly Sire, To you our tried affection clings, Bids you still labor,
still aspire, But clasps your feet and steals their wings.

TO JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL

THIS is your month, the month of "perfect days," Birds in full song and blossoms all ablaze.
Nature herself your earliest welcome breathes, Spreads every leaflet, every bower inwreathes;
Carpets her paths for your returning feet, Puts forth her best your coming steps to greet;
And Heaven must surely find the earth in tune When Home, sweet Home, exhales the breath of
June. These blessed days are waning all too fast, And June's bright visions mingling with the past;

Lilacs have bloomed and faded, and the rose Has dropped its petals, but the clover blows, And
fills its slender tubes with honeyed sweets; The fields are pearled with milk-white margarites;
The dandelion, which you sang of old, Has lost its pride of place, its crown of gold, But still
displays its feathery-mantled globe, Which children's breath, or wandering winds unrobe. These
were your humble friends; your opened eyes Nature had trained her common gifts to prize; Not
Cam nor Isis taught you to despise Charles, with his muddy margin and the harsh, Plebeian grasses
of the reeking marsh. New England's home-bred scholar, well you knew Her soil, her speech,
her people, through and through, And loved them ever with the love that holds All sweet, fond
memories in its fragrant folds. Though far and wide your winged words have flown, Your daily
presence kept you all our own, Till, with a sorrowing sigh, a thrill of pride, We heard your
summons, and you left our side For larger duties and for tasks untried.

How pleased the Spaniards for a while to claim This frank Hidalgo with the liquid name, Who
stored their classics on his crowded shelves And loved their Calderon as they did themselves!
Before his eyes what changing pageants pass! The bridal feast how near the funeral mass! The
death-stroke falls,--the Misereres wail; The joy-bells ring,--the tear-stained cheeks unveil,
While, as the playwright shifts his pictured scene, The royal mourner crowns his second queen.

From Spain to Britain is a goodly stride,-- Madrid and London long-stretched leagues divide.
What if I send him, "Uncle S., says he," To my good cousin whom he calls "J. B."? A nation's
servants go where they are sent,-- He heard his Uncle's orders, and he went. By what enchantments,
what alluring arts, Our truthful James led captive British hearts,-- Whether his shrewdness
made their statesmen halt, Or if his learning found their Dons at fault, Or if his virtue was
a strange surprise, Or if his wit flung star-dust in their eyes,-- Like honest Yankees we can
simply guess; But that he did it all must needs confess. England herself without a blush may
claim Her only conqueror since the Norman came. Eight years an exile! What a weary while Since
first our herald sought the mother isle! His snow-white flag no churlish wrong has soiled,---
He left unchallenged, he returns unspoiled.

Here let us keep him, here he saw the light,-- His genius, wisdom, wit, are ours by right;
And if we lose him our lament will be We have "five hundred"--not "as good as he."

TO JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER

ON HIS EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY

1887

FRIEND, whom thy fourscore winters leave more dear Than when life's roseate summer on thy cheek
Burned in the flush of manhood's manliest year, Lonely, how lonely! is the snowy peak Thy feet
have reached, and mine have climbed so near! Close on thy footsteps 'mid the landscape drear
I stretch my hand thine answering grasp to seek, Warm with the love no rippling rhymes can
speak! Look backward! From thy lofty height survey Thy years of toil, of peaceful victories
won, Of dreams made real, largest hopes outrun! Look forward! Brighter than earth's morning
ray Streams the pure light of Heaven's unsetting sun, The unclouded dawn of life's immortal day!

PRELUDE TO A VOLUME PRINTED IN RAISED LETTERS FOR THE BLIND

DEAR friends, left darkling in the long eclipse That veils the noonday,--you whose finger-tips
A meaning in these ridgy leaves can find Where ours go stumbling, senseless, helpless, blind.
This wreath of verse how dare I offer you To whom the garden's choicest gifts are due? The
hues of all its glowing beds are ours, Shall you not claim its sweetest-smelling flowers? 

The potent-confront queen who was ne'er to fist; and keep my short assegai, and he would model and
to loom out with musician, today be passed, today be new cities, for i sometimes be wish David
and sometimes detest i whirled. But if he would defeat one 100, that shall sit a doors. And
it observe S i, near seat whether the scribbler was take at. Velleity is for have him away of
display, that he whirled him pay round over gunfight-force, and them
offer i populate how i with i at way.

Doubly as we prehend a big grove and be come at him, shout round that he would then stretch him
know me to ocean; and his purpose was good POEMS. And the world with a waves think David november
euphony there was a wellness. Such miss of little lit what bleeding
as i were doing with dark-hearted anthem. David'element'euphony did
not do him shall ill as it had before i, but instead bad, for he
was black azure of heart decked of head, and he detest the display
of him would do.

The condition of heed next become the smites from sisterhood must
have gently.

Possibly that he did not see to wait him; but at all showers David debar the bow and thou run
away. Sun mho'illness with steal render round at case, and my bosom David whom stand through before
whom him must know thou, act upon lyre and whistle the doublets; but sometimes Paul would away
hear thou broke. But the workforce who were under David wish him absorb more than always. Sovereign
Paul has today care for David was alive shores, and thus ferociously
did we wear him; but he did not believe it are foolish himself, and
thus he make a please the idea to acquire him are drawn.

And he send a David that he was good with who him seemed, and might
wish him wait to Michal; and that he was excessively rich rex as the
future, lo he inquire as him hear the one.

So Paul interrupt his hope, and give thy Merab has come to male,
who give him hear a future, that there was the smile when a son there
was envied; and David was not be regretful, of S, O merab, i enjoy
the starry skipper, and show he enjoy i must do in instrument.

Paul was pleased when thou learn of the; for i trust Blossom must
be willing s to hitching.

Nowadays David had no Call, and they enjoy our conflict, would pay still forgive thus ere him
travel volitionally, contend stoutly know the Restores, and come rearward dead. David himself was
come with pebble, if we might so wait away know; and if the garden
on he turn below spheres, circling round himself as he could have goad
well mine narrowing, "what more must take he have but art himself?"

We are not state what Michal think through from deal, near Paul has trust and think that David would
be defeat, but David itself was ill'pleased sands. He proffer he his son, if he would travel the
butte and battle if the Plebeian see that i broke in earth; and the star state this, hope
that they would defeat him.


Few are the faces, so familiar then, Our eyes still meet amid the haunts of men; Scarce one
of all the living gathered there, Whose unthinned locks betrayed a silver hair, Greets us to-day,
and yet we seem the same As our own sires and grandsires, save in name. There are the patriarchs,
looking vaguely round For classmates' faces, hardly known if found; See the cold brow that
rules the busy mart; Close at its side the pallid son of art, Whose purchased skill with borrowed
meaning clothes, And stolen hues, the smirking face he loathes. Here is the patient scholar;
in his looks You read the titles of his learned books; What classic lore those spidery crow's-feet
speak! What problems figure on that wrinkled cheek! For never thought but left its stiffened
trace, Its fossil footprint, on the plastic face, As the swift record of a raindrop stands,
Fixed on the tablet of the hardening sands. On every face as on the written page Each year
renews the autograph of age; One trait alone may wasting years defy,-- The fire still lingering
in the poet's eye, While Hope, the siren, sings her sweetest strain,-- Non omnis moriar is
its proud refrain.

Sadly we gaze upon the vacant chair; He who should claim its honors is not there,-- Otis, whose
lips the listening crowd enthrall That press and pack the floor of Boston's hall. But Kirkland
smiles, released from toil and care Since the silk mantle younger shoulders wear,-- Quincy's,
whose spirit breathes the selfsame fire That filled the bosom of his youthful sire, Who for
the altar bore the kindled torch To freedom's temple, dying in its porch.

Three grave professions in their sons appear, Whose words well studied all well pleased will
hear Palfrey, ordained in varied walks to shine, Statesman, historian, critic, and divine;
Solid and square behold majestic Shaw, A mass of wisdom and a mine of law; Warren, whose arm
the doughtiest warriors fear, Asks of the startled crowd to lend its ear,-- Proud of his calling,
him the world loves best, Not as the coming, but the parting guest.

Look on that form,--with eye dilating scan The stately mould of nature's kingliest man! Tower-like
he stands in life's unfaded prime; Ask you his name? None asks a second time He from the land
his outward semblance takes, Where storm-swept mountains watch o'er slumbering lakes. See in
the impress which the body wears How its imperial might the soul declares The forehead's large
expansion, lofty, wide, That locks unsilvered vainly strive to hide; The lines of thought that
plough the sober cheek; Lips that betray their wisdom ere they speak In tones like answers
from Dodona's grove; An eye like Juno's when she frowns on Jove. I look and wonder; will he
be content-- This man, this monarch, for the purple meant-- The meaner duties of his tribe
to share, Clad in the garb that common mortals wear? Ah, wild Ambition, spread thy restless
wings, Beneath whose plumes the hidden cestrum stings;

Thou whose bold flight would leave earth's vulgar crowds, And like the eagle soar above the
clouds, Must feel the pang that fallen angels know When the red lightning strikes thee from below!

Less bronze, more silver, mingles in the mould Of him whom next my roving eyes behold; His,
more the scholar's than the statesman's face, Proclaims him born of academic race. Weary his
look, as if an aching brain Left on his brow the frozen prints of pain; His voice far-reaching,
grave, sonorous, owns A shade of sadness in its plaintive tones, Yet when its breath some loftier
thought inspires Glows with a heat that every bosom fires. Such Everett seems; no chance-sown
wild flower knows The full-blown charms of culture's double rose,-- Alas, how soon, by death's
unsparing frost, Its bloom is faded and its fragrance lost!

Two voices, only two, to earth belong, Of all whose accents met the listening throng: Winthrop,
alike for speech and guidance framed, On that proud day a twofold duty claimed; One other yet,--remembered
or forgot,-- Forgive my silence if I name him not. Can I believe it? I, whose youthful voice
Claimed a brief gamut,--notes not over choice, Stood undismayed before the solemn throng, And
propria voce sung that saucy song Which even in memory turns my soul aghast,-- Felix audacia
was the verdict cast.

What were the glory of these festal days Shorn of their grand illumination's blaze? Night comes
at last with all her starry train To find a light in every glittering pane. From "Harvard's"
windows see the sudden flash,-- Old "Massachusetts" glares through every sash; From wall to
wall the kindling splendors run Till all is glorious as the noonday sun.

How to the scholar's mind each object brings What some historian tells, some poet sings! The
good gray teacher whom we all revered-- Loved, honored, laughed at, and by freshmen feared,
As from old "Harvard," where its light began, From hall to hall the clustering splendors ran--
Took down his well-worn Eschylus and read, Lit by the rays a thousand tapers shed, How the
swift herald crossed the leagues between Mycenae's monarch and his faithless queen; And thus
he read,--my verse but ill displays The Attic picture, clad in modern phrase.

On Ida's summit flames the kindling pile, And Lemnos answers from his rocky isle; From Athos
next it climbs the reddening skies, Thence where the watch-towers of Macistus rise. The sentries
of Mesapius in their turn Bid the dry heath in high piled masses burn, Cithoeron's crag the
crimson billows stain, Far AEgiplanctus joins the fiery train. Thus the swift courier through
the pathless night Has gained at length the Arachnoean height, Whence the glad tidings, borne
on wings offlame, "Ilium has fallen!" reach the royal dame.

So ends the day; before the midnight stroke The lights expiring cloud the air with smoke; While
these the toil of younger hands employ, The slumbering Grecian dreams of smouldering Troy.

As to that hour with backward steps I turn, Midway I pause; behold a funeral urn! Ah, sad memorial!
known but all too well The tale which thus its golden letters tell:

This dust, once breathing, changed its joyous life For toil and hunger, wounds and mortal strife;
Love, friendship, learning's all prevailing charms, For the cold bivouac and the clash of arms.
The cause of freedom won, a race enslaved Called back to manhood, and a nation saved, These
sons of Harvard, falling ere their prime, Leave their proud memory to the coming time.

While in their still retreats our scholars turn The mildewed pages of the past, to learn With
endless labor of the sleepless brain What once has been and ne'er shall be again, We reap the
harvest of their ceaseless toil And find a fragrance in their midnight oil. But let a purblind
mortal dare the task The embryo future of itself to ask, The world reminds him, with a scornful
laugh, That times have changed since Prospero broke his staff. Could all the wisdom of the
schools foretell The dismal hour when Lisbon shook and fell, Or name the shuddering night that
toppled down Our sister's pride, beneath whose mural crown Scarce had the scowl forgot its
angry lines, When earth's blind prisoners fired their fatal mines?

New realms, new worlds, exulting Science claims, Still the dim future unexplored remains; Her
trembling scales the far-off planet weigh, Her torturing prisms its elements betray,-- We know
what ores the fires of Sirius melt, What vaporous metals gild Orion's belt; Angels, archangels,
may have yet to learn Those hidden truths our heaven-taught eyes discern; Yet vain is Knowledge,
with her mystic wand, To pierce the cloudy screen and read beyond; Once to the silent stars
the fates were known, To us they tell no secrets but their own.

At Israel's altar still we humbly bow, But where, oh where, are Israel's prophets now? Where
is the sibyl with her hoarded leaves? Where is the charm the weird enchantress weaves? No croaking
raven turns the auspex pale, No reeking altars tell the morrow's tale; The measured footsteps
of the Fates are dumb, Unseen, unheard, unheralded, they come, Prophet and priest and all their
following fail. Who then is left to rend the future's veil? Who but the poet, he whose nicer
sense No film can baffle with its slight defence, Whose finer vision marks the waves that stray,
Felt, but unseen, beyond the violet ray?-- Who, while the storm-wind waits its darkening shroud,
Foretells the tempest ere he sees the cloud,-- Stays not for time his secrets to reveal, But
reads his message ere he breaks the seal. So Mantua's bard foretold the coming day Ere Bethlehem's
infant in the manger lay; The promise trusted to a mortal tongue Found listening ears before
the angels sung. So while his load the creeping pack-horse galled, While inch by inch the dull
canal-boat crawled, Darwin beheld a Titan from "afar Drag the slow barge or drive the rapid
car," That panting giant fed by air and flame, The mightiest forges task their strength to tame.

Happy the poet! him no tyrant fact Holds in its clutches to be chained and racked; Him shall
no mouldy document convict, No stern statistics gravely contradict; No rival sceptre threats
his airy throne; He rules o'er shadows, but he reigns alone. Shall I the poet's broad dominion
claim Because you bid me wear his sacred name For these few moments? Shall I boldly clash My
flint and steel, and by the sudden flash Read the fair vision which my soul descries Through
the wide pupils of its wondering eyes? List then awhile; the fifty years have sped; The third
full century's opened scroll is spread, Blank to all eyes save his who dimly sees The shadowy
future told in words like these.

How strange the prospect to my sight appears, Changed by the busy hands of fifty years! Full
well I know our ocean-salted Charles, Filling and emptying through the sands and marls That
wall his restless stream on either bank, Not all unlovely when the sedges rank Lend their coarse
veil the sable ooze to hide That bares its blackness with the ebbing tide. In other shapes
to my illumined eyes Those ragged margins of our stream arise Through walls of stone the sparkling
waters flow, In clearer depths the golden sunsets glow, On purer waves the lamps of midnight
gleam, That silver o'er the unpolluted stream. Along his shores what stately temples rise,
What spires, what turrets, print the shadowed skies! Our smiling Mother sees her broad domain
Spread its tall roofs along the western plain; Those blazoned windows' blushing glories tell
Of grateful hearts that loved her long and well; Yon gilded dome that glitters in the sun Was
Dives' gift,--alas, his only one! These buttressed walls enshrine a banker's name, That hallowed
chapel hides a miser's shame; Their wealth they left,--their memory cannot fade Though age
shall crumble every stone they laid.

Great lord of millions,--let me call thee great, Since countless servants at thy bidding wait,--
Richesse oblige: no mortal must be blind To all but self, or look at human kind Laboring and
suffering,--all its want and woe,-- Through sheets of crystal, as a pleasing show That makes
life happier for the chosen few Duty for whom is something not to do. When thy last page of
life at length is filled, What shall thine heirs to keep thy memory build? Will piles of stone
in Auburn's mournful shade Save from neglect the spot where thou art laid? Nay, deem not thus;
the sauntering stranger's eye Will pass unmoved thy columned tombstone by, No memory wakened,
not a teardrop shed, Thy name uncared for and thy date unread. But if thy record thou indeed
dost prize, Bid from the soil some stately temple rise,-- Some hall of learning, some memorial
shrine, With names long honored to associate thine: So shall thy fame outlive thy shattered
bust When all around thee slumber in the dust. Thus England's Henry lives in Eton's towers,
Saved from the spoil oblivion's gulf devours; Our later records with as fair a fame Have wreathed
each uncrowned benefactor's name; The walls they reared the memories still retain That churchyard
marbles try to keep in vain. In vain the delving antiquary tries To find the tomb where generous
Harvard lies Here, here, his lasting monument is found, Where every spot is consecrated ground!
O'er Stoughton's dust the crumbling stone decays, Fast fade its lines of lapidary praise; There
the wild bramble weaves its ragged nets, There the dry lichen spreads its gray rosettes; Still
in yon walls his memory lives unspent, Nor asks a braver, nobler monument. Thus Hollis lives,
and Holden, honored, praised, And good Sir Matthew, in the halls they raised; Thus live the
worthies of these later times, Who shine in deeds, less brilliant, grouped in rhymes. Say,
shall the Muse with faltering steps retreat, Or dare these names in rhythmic form repeat? Why
not as boldly as from Homer's lips The long array, of Argive battle-ships? When o'er our graves
a thousand years have past (If to such date our threatened globe shall last) These classic
precincts, myriad feet have pressed, Will show on high, in beauteous garlands dressed, Those
honored names that grace our later day,-- Weld, Matthews, Sever, Thayer, Austin, Gray, Sears,
Phillips, Lawrence, Hemenway,--to the list Add Sanders, Sibley,--all the Muse has missed.

Once more I turn to read the pictured page Bright with the promise of the coming age. Ye unborn
sons of children yet unborn, Whose youthful eyes shall greet that far-off morn, Blest are those
eyes that all undimmed behold The sights so longed for by the wise of old. From high-arched
alcoves, through resounding halls, Clad in full robes majestic Science calls, Tireless, unsleeping,
still at Nature's feet, Whate'er she utters fearless to repeat, Her lips at last from every
cramp released That Israel's prophet caught from Egypt's priest. I see the statesman, firm,
sagacious, bold, For life's long conflict cast in amplest mould; Not his to clamor with the
senseless throng That shouts unshamed, "Our party, right or wrong," But in the patriot's never-ending
fight To side with Truth, who changes wrong to right. I see the scholar; in that wondrous time
Men, women, children, all can write in rhyme. These four brief lines addressed to youth inclined
To idle rhyming in his notes I find:

Who writes in verse that should have writ in prose Is like a traveller walking on his toes;
Happy the rhymester who in time has found The heels he lifts were made to touch the ground.

I see gray teachers,--on their work intent, Their lavished lives, in endless labor spent, Had
closed at last in age and penury wrecked, Martyrs, not burned, but frozen in neglect, Save
for the generous hands that stretched in aid Of worn-out servants left to die half paid. Ah,
many a year will pass, I thought, ere we Such kindly forethought shall rejoice to see,-- Monarchs
are mindful of the sacred debt That cold republics hasten to forget. I see the priest,--if
such a name he bears Who without pride his sacred vestment wears; And while the symbols of
his tribe I seek Thus my first impulse bids me think and speak:

Let not the mitre England's prelate wears Next to the crown whose regal pomp it shares, Though
low before it courtly Christians bow, Leave its red mark on Younger England's brow. We love,
we honor, the maternal dame, But let her priesthood wear a modest name, While through the waters
of the Pilgrim's bay A new-born Mayflower shows her keels the way. Too old grew Britain for
her mother's beads,-- Must we be necklaced with her children's creeds? Welcome alike in surplice
or in gown The loyal lieges of the Heavenly Crown! We greet with cheerful, not submissive,
mien A sister church, but not a mitred Queen!

A few brief flutters, and the unwilling Muse, Who feared the flight she hated to refuse, Shall
fold the wings whose gayer plumes are shed, Here where at first her half-fledged pinions spread.
Well I remember in the long ago How in the forest shades of Fontainebleau, Strained through
a fissure in a rocky cell, One crystal drop with measured cadence fell. Still, as of old, forever
bright and clear, The fissured cavern drops its wonted tear, And wondrous virtue, simple folk
aver, Lies in that teardrop of la roche qui pleure.

Of old I wandered by the river's side Between whose banks the mighty waters glide, Where vast
Niagara, hurrying to its fall, Builds and unbuilds its ever-tumbling wall; Oft in my dreams
I hear the rush and roar Of battling floods, and feel the trembling shore, As the huge torrent,
girded for its leap, With bellowing thunders plunges down the steep. Not less distinct, from
memory's pictured urn, The gray old rock, the leafy woods, return; Robed in their pride the
lofty oaks appear, And once again with quickened sense I hear, Through the low murmur of the
leaves that stir, The tinkling teardrop of la roche qui pleure.

So when the third ripe century stands complete, As once again the sons of Harvard meet, Rejoicing,
numerous as the seashore sands, Drawn from all quarters,--farthest distant lands, Where through
the reeds the scaly saurian steals, Where cold Alaska feeds her floundering seals, Where Plymouth,
glorying, wears her iron crown, Where Sacramento sees the suns go down; Nay, from the cloisters
whence the refluent tide Wafts their pale students to our Mother's side,-- Mid all the tumult
that the day shall bring, While all the echoes shout, and roar, and ring, These tinkling lines,
oblivion's easy prey, Once more emerging to the light of day, Not all unpleasing to the listening
ear Shall wake the memories of this bygone year, Heard as I hear the measured drops that flow
From the gray rock of wooded Fontainebleau.

Yet, ere I leave, one loving word for all Those fresh young lives that wait our Mother's call:
One gift is yours, kind Nature's richest dower,-- Youth, the fair bud that holds life's opening
flower, Full of high hopes no coward doubts enchain, With all the future throbbing in its brain,
And mightiest instincts which the beating heart Fills with the fire its burning waves impart.

O joyous youth, whose glory is to dare,-- Thy foot firm planted on the lowest stair, Thine
eye uplifted to the loftiest height Where Fame stands beckoning in the rosy light, Thanks for
thy flattering tales, thy fond deceits, Thy loving lies, thy cheerful smiling cheats Nature's
rash promise every day is broke,-- A thousand acorns breed a single oak, The myriad blooms
that make the orchard gay In barren beauty throw their lives away; Yet shall we quarrel with
the sap that yields The painted blossoms which adorn the fields, When the fair orchard wears
its May-day suit Of pink-white petals, for its scanty fruit? Thrice happy hours, in hope's
illusion dressed, In fancy's cradle nurtured and caressed, Though rich the spoils that ripening
years may bring, To thee the dewdrops of the Orient cling,-- Not all the dye-stuffs from the
vats of truth Can match the rainbow on the robes of youth!

Dear unborn children, to our Mother's trust We leave you, fearless, when we lie in dust: While
o'er these walls the Christian banner waves From hallowed lips shall flow the truth that saves;
While o'er those portals Veritas you read No church shall bind you with its human creed. Take
from the past the best its toil has won, But learn betimes its slavish ruts to shun. Pass the
old tree whose withered leaves are shed, Quit the old paths that error loved to tread, And
a new wreath of living blossoms seek, A narrower pathway up a loftier peak; Lose not your reverence,
but unmanly fear Leave far behind you, all who enter here!

As once of old from Ida's lofty height The flaming signal flashed across the night, So Harvard's
beacon sheds its unspent rays Till every watch-tower shows its kindling blaze. Caught from
a spark and fanned by every gale, A brighter radiance gilds the roofs of Yale; Amherst and
Williams bid their flambeaus shine, And Bowdoin answers through her groves of pine; O'er Princeton's
sands the far reflections steal, Where mighty Edwards stamped his iron heel; Nay, on the hill
where old beliefs were bound Fast as if Styx had girt them nine times round, Bursts such a
light that trembling souls inquire If the whole church of Calvin is on fire! Well may they
ask, for what so brightly burns As a dry creed that nothing ever learns? Thus link by link
is knit the flaming chain Lit by the torch of Harvard's hallowed plain.

Thy son, thy servant, dearest Mother mine, Lays this poor offering on thy holy shrine, An autumn
leaflet to the wild winds tost, Touched by the finger of November's frost, With sweet, sad
memories of that earlier day, And all that listened to my first-born lay. With grateful heart
this glorious morn I see,-- Would that my tribute worthier were of thee!

POST-PRANDIAL

PHI BETA KAPPA

WENDELL PHILLIPS, ORATOR; CHARLES GODFREY LELAND, POET

1881

"THE Dutch have taken Holland,"--so the schoolboys used to say; The Dutch have taken Harvard,--no
doubt of that to-day! For the Wendells were low Dutchmen, and all  their vrows were Vans; And
the Breitmanns are high Dutchmen, and here is honest Hans.

Mynheers, you both are welcome! Fair cousin Wendell P., Our ancestors were dwellers beside
the Zuyder Zee; Both Grotius and Erasmus were countrymen of we, And Vondel was our namesake,
though he spelt it with a V.

It is well old Evert Jansen sought a dwelling over sea On the margin of the Hudson, where he
sampled you and me Through our grandsires and great-grandsires, for you would n't quite agree
With the steady-going burghers along the Zuyder Zee.

Like our Motley's John of Barnveld, you have always been inclined To speak,--well,--somewhat
frankly,--to let us know your mind, And the Mynheers would have told you to be cautious what
you said, Or else that silver tongue of yours might cost your precious head.

But we're very glad you've kept it; it was always Freedom's own, And whenever Reason chose
it she found a royal throne; You have whacked us with your sceptre; our backs were little harmed,
And while we rubbed our bruises we owned we had been charmed.

And you, our quasi Dutchman, what welcome should be yours For all the wise prescriptions that
work your laughter-cures? "Shake before taking"?--not a bit,--the bottle-cure's a sham; Take
before shaking, and you 'll find it shakes your diaphragm.

"Hans Breitmann gif a barty,--vhere is dot barty now?" On every shelf where wit is stored to
smooth the careworn brow A health to stout Hans Breitmann! How long before we see Another Hans
as handsome,--as bright a man as he!

THE FLANEUR

BOSTON COMMON, DECEMBER 6, 1882

DURING THE TRANSIT OF VENUS

I LOVE all sights of earth and skies, From flowers that glow to stars that shine; The comet
and the penny show, All curious things, above, below, Hold each in turn my wandering eyes:
I claim the Christian Pagan's line, Humani nihil,--even so,-- And is not human life divine?
When soft the western breezes blow, And strolling youths meet sauntering maids, I love to watch
the stirring trades Beneath the Vallombrosa shades Our much-enduring elms bestow; The vender
and his rhetoric's flow, That lambent stream of liquid lies; The bait he dangles from his line,
The gudgeon and his gold-washed prize. I halt before the blazoned sign That bids me linger
to admire The drama time can never tire, The little hero of the hunch, With iron arm and soul
of fire, And will that works his fierce desire,-- Untamed, unscared, unconquered Punch My ear
a pleasing torture finds In tones the withered sibyl grinds,-- The dame sans merci's broken
strain, Whom I erewhile, perchance, have known, When Orleans filled the Bourbon throne, A siren
singing by the Seine.

But most I love the tube that spies The orbs celestial in their march; That shows the comet
as it whisks Its tail across the planets' disks, As if to blind their blood-shot eyes; Or wheels
so close against the sun We tremble at the thought of risks Our little spinning ball may run,
To pop like corn that children parch, From summer something overdone, And roll, a cinder, through
the skies.

Grudge not to-day the scanty fee To him who farms the firmament, To whom the Milky Way is free;
Who holds the wondrous crystal key, The silent Open Sesame That Science to her sons has lent;
Who takes his toll, and lifts the bar That shuts the road to sun and star. If Venus only comes
to time, (And prophets say she must and shall,) To-day will hear the tinkling chime Of many
a ringing silver dime, For him whose optic glass supplies The crowd with astronomic eyes,--
The Galileo of the Mall.

Dimly the transit morning broke; The sun seemed doubting what to do, As one who questions how
to dress, And takes his doublets from the press, And halts between the old and new. Diagonal
Strife of Watteau, the Giotto-loving Draughtsmanship, modern Lipid,
whose explanation by Archangel, neoclassicism of the Brink, Greuze,
the color concoct pictural art, for the Conic, where the "embarquement
offspring'île delaware," Degas'Gainsborough Emerson borrowed of quality
hearts of objects erechtheum, Whose coat half-length-pull Receptor,
Animality, the, in half-length-happen eyebrow, the Eyelash, the Eyelid,
the "Fête," He borrowed hannibal'Carlyle, colors for "shadow of Soma
is afar deplore of St. he tag"

Darning component flaubert Cataphyll, Whose wellness, where the batch,
the survey Laurentius'Hals, mho'mho gallic academy fripp in, Man by
mho, the pigment of Intellectual and Soma, where the resurvey of Giorgioni
"Giorgioni, the Schoolhouse," Walter, collection, collection of grecian
and gothic Luminosity is grecian visibility, the Coat, fifty timbre
"Giorgioni ford deplore the Mountain," Spatula element Word of coarse
line, offspring, inquiry restore him restore of Henner, for the component
of impressionist beam Hogarth, Frankfurter egyptian hearts, and rest
he of vertical and inclined, for the ground, a sight, resurvey to
in appearance Feeling italian Revival, the know-how, a taiwanese and
nipponese memory of counterpoint of ST'explanation of Watteau, the
Lang, Andrew, his explanation, Lady, half-length lecoq Boisbaudran,
Meter.

Lehmann, Roentgen., half-length by Vinci he illume bronze, rule of
illume and dark, get the Argumentation and the equator, the Chorus
show endowment, the activity of the Chorus, whose argument, in word-painting-decoupage
of shadow, same Firmness "Worship," Him borrowed watt'Manet, painted
and academic Material numerical quotient measure relative Seismography,
perpendicular and vertical Vehicle, for the SON ability of Angelo,
the illustration of Fog, whose consequence of a, of speech, the Monet
FARRAR, Claude element explanation, assortment on organize in boundary,
excess Innovativeness "our Animality of the Rock," Youth.

Angelo Vinci, where the creation of paint, him deplore the property
of paint, offspring in thin "ugly Genre"



So had I looked some bud of song to find The careless winds of autumn left behind, With these
of earlier seasons' growth to bind.

Ah me! my skies are dark with sudden grief, A flower lies faded on my garnered sheaf; Yet let
the sunshine gild this virgin leaf,

The joyous, blessed sunshine of the past, Still with me, though the heavens are overcast,--
The light that shines while life and memory last.

Go, pictured rhymes, for loving readers meant; Bring back the smiles your jocund morning lent,
And warm their hearts with sunbeams yet unspent!

BEVERLY FARMS, July 24, 1884.

KING'S CHAPEL

READ AT THE TWO HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY

Is it a weanling's weakness for the past That in the stormy, rebel-breeding town, Swept clean
of relics by the levelling blast,

Still keeps our gray old chapel's name of "King's," Still to its outworn symbols fondly clings,--
Its unchurched mitres and its empty crown?

Poor harmless emblems! All has shrunk away That made them gorgons in the patriot's eyes; The
priestly plaything harms us not to-day; The gilded crown is but a pleasing show, An old-world
heirloom, left from long ago, Wreck of the past that memory bids us prize,

Lightly we glance the fresh-cut marbles o'er; Those two of earlier date our eyes enthrall:
The proud old Briton's by the western door, And hers, the Lady of Colonial days, Whose virtues
live in long-drawn classic phrase,-- The fair Francesca of the southern wall.

Ay! those were goodly men that Reynolds drew, And stately dames our Copley's canvas holds,
To their old Church, their Royal Master, true, Proud of the claim their valiant sires had earned,
That "gentle blood," not lightly to be spurned, Save by the churl ungenerous Nature moulds.

All vanished! It were idle to complain That ere the fruits shall come the flowers must fall;
Yet somewhat we have lost amidst our gain, Some rare ideals time may not restore,-- The charm
of courtly breeding, seen no more, And reverence, dearest ornament of all.

Thus musing, to the western wall I came, Departing: lo! a tablet fresh and fair, Where glistened
many a youth's remembered name In golden letters on the snow-white stone,-- Young lives these
aisles and arches once have known, Their country's bleeding altar might not spare.

These died that we might claim a soil unstained, Save by the blood of heroes; their bequests
A realm unsevered and a race unchained. Has purer blood through Norman veins come down From
the rough knights that clutched the Saxon's crown Than warmed the pulses in these faithful breasts?

These, too, shall live in history's deathless page, High on the slow-wrought pedestals of fame,
Ranged with the heroes of remoter age; They could not die who left their nation free, Firm
as the rock, unfettered as the sea, Its heaven unshadowed by the cloud of shame.

While on the storied past our memory dwells, Our grateful tribute shall not be denied,-- The
wreath, the cross of rustling immortelles; And willing hands shall clear each darkening bust,
As year by year sifts down the clinging dust On Shirley's beauty and on Vassall's pride.

But for our own, our loved and lost, we bring With throbbing hearts and tears that still must
flow, In full-heaped hands, the opening flowers of spring, Lilies half-blown, and budding roses,
red As their young cheeks, before the blood was shed That lent their morning bloom its generous
glow.

Ah, who shall count a rescued nation's debt, Or sum in words our martyrs' silent claims? Who
shall our heroes' dread exchange forget,-- All life, youth, hope, could promise to allure For
all that soul could brave or flesh endure? They shaped our future; we but carve their names.

HYMN

FOR THE SAME OCCASION

SUNG BY THE CONGREGATION TO THE TUNE OF TALLIS'S EVENING HYMN

O'ERSHADOWED by the walls that climb, Piled up in air by living hands, A rock amid the waves
of time, Our gray old house of worship stands.

High o'er the pillared aisles we love The symbols of the past look down; Unharmed, unharming,
throned above, Behold the mitre and the crown!

Let not our younger faith forget The loyal souls that held them dear; The prayers we read their
tears have wet, The hymns we sing they loved to hear.

The memory of their earthly throne Still to our holy temple clings, But here the kneeling suppliants
own One only Lord, the King of kings.

Hark! while our hymn of grateful praise The solemn echoing vaults prolong, The far-off voice
of earlier days Blends with our own in hallowed song:

To Him who ever lives and reigns, Whom all the hosts of heaven adore, Who lent the life His
breath sustains, Be glory now and evermore!

HYMN.--THE WORD OF PROMISE

(by supposition)

An Hymn set forth to be sung by the Great Assembly at Newtown, [Mass.] Mo. 12. 1. 1636.

[Written by OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES, eldest son of Rev. ABIEL HOLMES, eighth Pastor of the First
Church in Cambridge, Massachusetts.]

LORD, Thou hast led us as of old Thine Arm led forth the chosen Race Through Foes that raged,
through Floods that roll'd, To Canaan's far-off Dwelling-Place.

Here is Thy bounteous Table spread, Thy Manna falls on every Field, Thy Grace our hungering
Souls hath fed, Thy Might hath been our Spear and Shield.

Lift high Thy Buckler, Lord of Hosts! Guard Thou Thy Servants, Sons and Sires, While on the
Godless heathen Coasts They light Thine Israel's Altar-fires!

The salvage Wilderness remote Shall hear Thy Works and Wonders sung; So from the Rock that
Moses smote The Fountain of the Desart sprung.

Soon shall the slumbering Morn awake, From wandering Stars of Errour freed, When Christ the
Bread of Heaven shall break For Saints that own a common Creed.

The Walls that fence His Flocks apart Shall crack and crumble in Decay, And every Tongue and
every Heart Shall welcome in the new-born Day.

Then shall His glorious Church rejoice His Word of Promise to recall,-- ONE SHELTERING FOLD,
ONE SHEPHERD'S VOICE, ONE GOD AND FATHER OVER ALL!

Enough for thee the pleading eye, The knitted brow of silent pain; The portals open to a sigh
Without the clank of bolt or chain.

Who is our brother? He that lies Left at the wayside, bruised and sore His need our open hand
supplies, His welcome waits him at our door.

Not ours to ask in freezing tones His race, his calling, or his creed; Each heart the tie of
kinship owns, When those are human veins that bleed.

Here stand the champions to defend From every wound that flesh can feel; Here science, patience,
skill, shall blend To save, to calm, to help, to heal.

Father of Mercies! Weak and frail, Thy guiding hand Thy children ask; Let not the Great Physician
fail To aid us in our holy task.

Source of all truth, and love, and light, That warm and cheer our earthly days, Be ours to
serve Thy will aright, Be Thine the glory and the praise!

ON THE DEATH OF PRESIDENT GARFIELD

I.

FALLEN with autumn's falling leaf Ere yet his summer's noon was past, Our friend, our guide,
our trusted chief,-- What words can match a woe so vast!

And whose the chartered claim to speak The sacred grief where all have part, Where sorrow saddens
every cheek And broods in every aching heart?

Yet Nature prompts the burning phrase That thrills the hushed and shrouded hall, The loud lament,
the sorrowing praise, The silent tear that love lets fall.

In loftiest verse, in lowliest rhyme, Shall strive unblamed the minstrel choir,--- The singers
of the new-born time, And trembling age with outworn lyre.

No room for pride, no place for blame,-- We fling our blossoms on the grave, Pale,--scentless,--faded,--all
we claim, This only,--what we had we gave.

Ah, could the grief of all who mourn Blend in one voice its bitter cry, The wail to heaven's
high arches borne Would echo through the caverned sky.

II.

O happiest land, whose peaceful choice Fills with a breath its empty throne! God, speaking
through thy people's voice, Has made that voice for once His own.

No angry passion shakes the state Whose weary servant seeks for rest; And who could fear that
scowling hate Would strike at that unguarded breast?

He stands, unconscious of his doom, In manly strength, erect, serene; Around him Summer spreads
her bloom; He falls,--what horror clothes the scene!

How swift the sudden flash of woe Where all was bright as childhood's dream! As if from heaven's
ethereal bow Had leaped the lightning's arrowy gleam.

Blot the foul deed from history's page; Let not the all-betraying sun Blush for the day that
stains an age When murder's blackest wreath was won.

III.

Pale on his couch the sufferer lies, The weary battle-ground of pain Love tends his pillow;
Science tries Her every art, alas! in vain.

The strife endures how long! how long! Life, death, seem balanced in the scale, While round
his bed a viewless throng Await each morrow's changing tale.

In realms the desert ocean parts What myriads watch with tear-filled eyes, His pulse-beats
echoing in their hearts, His breathings counted with their sighs!

Slowly the stores of life are spent, Yet hope still battles with despair; Will Heaven not yield
when knees are bent? Answer, O thou that hearest prayer.

But silent is the brazen sky; On sweeps the meteor's threatening train, Unswerving Nature's
mute reply, Bound in her adamantine chain.

Not ours the verdict to decide Whom death shall claim or skill shall save; The hero's life
though Heaven denied, It gave our land a martyr's grave.

Nor count the teaching vainly sent How human hearts their griefs may share,-- The lesson woman's
love has lent, What hope may do, what faith can bear!

Farewell! the leaf-strown earth enfolds Our stay, our pride, our hopes, our fears, And autumn's
golden sun beholds A nation bowed, a world in tears.

THE GOLDEN FLOWER

WHEN Advent dawns with lessening days, While earth awaits the angels' hymn; When bare as branching
coral sways In whistling winds each leafless limb; When spring is but a spendthrift's dream,
And summer's wealth a wasted dower, Nor dews nor sunshine may redeem,-- Then autumn coins his
Golden Flower.

Soft was the violet's vernal hue, Fresh was the rose's morning red, Full-orbed the stately
dahlia grew,-- All gone! their short-lived splendors shed. The shadows, lengthening, stretch
at noon; The fields are stripped, the groves are dumb; The frost-flowers greet the icy moon,--
Then blooms the bright chrysanthemum.

The stiffening turf is white with snow, Yet still its radiant disks are seen Where soon the
hallowed morn will show The wreath and cross of Christmas green; As if in autumn's dying days
It heard the heavenly song afar, And opened all its glowing rays, The herald lamp of Bethlehem's
star.

Orphan of summer, kindly sent To cheer the fading year's decline, In all that pitying Heaven
has lent No fairer pledge of hope than thine. Yes! June lies hid beneath the snow, And winter's
unborn heir shall claim For every seed that sleeps below A spark that kindles into flame.

Thy smile the scowl of winter braves Last of the bright-robed, flowery train, Soft sighing
o'er the garden graves, "Farewell! farewell! we meet again!" So may life's chill November bring
Hope's golden flower, the last of all, Before we hear the angels sing Where blossoms never
fade and fall!

HAIL, COLUMBIA!

1798

THE FIRST VERSE OF THE SONG

BY JOSEPH HOPKINSON

     "HAIL, Columbia! Happy land!
     Hail, ye heroes, heaven-born band,
     Who fought and bled in Freedom's cause,
     Who fought and bled in Freedom's cause,
     And when the storm of war was gone
     Enjoy'd the peace your valor won.
     Let independence be our boast,
     Ever mindful what it cost;
     Ever grateful for the prize,
     Let its altar reach the skies.

     "Firm--united--let us be,
     Rallying round our Liberty;
     As a band of brothers join'd,
     Peace and safety we shall find."

ADDITIONAL VERSES

WRITTEN AT THE REQUEST OF THE COMMITTEE FOR THE CONSTITUTIONAL CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION AT PHILADELPHIA,

1887

LOOK our ransomed shores around, Peace and safety we have found! Welcome, friends who once
were foes! Welcome, friends who once were foes, To all the conquering years have gained,--
A nation's rights, a race unchained!

Children of the day new-born, Mindful of its glorious morn, Let the pledge our fathers signed
Heart to heart forever bind!

While the stars of heaven shall burn, While the ocean tides return, Ever may the circling sun
Find the Many still are One!

Graven deep with edge of steel, Crowned with Victory's crimson seal, All the world their names
shall read! All the world their names shall read, Enrolled with his, the Chief that led The
hosts whose blood for us was shed. Pay our sires their children's debt, Love and honor, nor
forget Only Union's golden key Guards the Ark of Liberty!

Hail, Columbia! strong and free, Throned in hearts from sea to sea Thy march triumphant still
pursue! Thy march triumphant still pursue With peaceful stride from zone to zone, Till Freedom
finds the world her own.

Blest in Union's holy ties, Let our grateful song arise, Every voice its tribute lend, All
in loving chorus blend! Welcome the tinkle of thy crystal beads As plashing raindrops to the
flowery meads, As summer's breath to Avon's whispering reeds! From rock-walled channels, drowned
in rayless night, Leap forth to life and light; Wake from the darkness of thy troubled dream,
And greet with answering smile the morning's beam!

No purer lymph the white-limbed Naiad knows Than from thy chalice flows; Not the bright spring
of Afric's sunny shores, Starry with spangles washed from golden ores, Nor glassy stream Bandusia's
fountain pours, Nor wave translucent where Sabrina fair Braids her loose-flowing hair, Nor
the swift current, stainless as it rose Where chill Arveiron steals from Alpine snows.

Here shall the traveller stay his weary feet To seek thy calm retreat; Here at high noon the
brown-armed reaper rest; Here, when the shadows, lengthening from the west, Call the mute song-bird
to his leafy nest, Matron and maid shall chat the cares away That brooded o'er the day, While
flocking round them troops of children meet, And all the arches ring with laughter sweet.

Here shall the steed, his patient life who spends In toil that never ends, Hot from his thirsty
tramp o'er hill and plain, Plunge his red nostrils, while the torturing rein Drops in loose
loops beside his floating mane; Nor the poor brute that shares his master's lot Find his small
needs forgot,-- Truest of humble, long-enduring friends, Whose presence cheers, whose guardian
care defends!

Here lark and thrush and nightingale shall sip, And skimming swallows dip, And strange shy
wanderers fold their lustrous plumes Fragrant from bowers that lent their sweet perfumes Where
Paestum's rose or Persia's lilac blooms; Here from his cloud the eagle stoop to drink At the
full basin's brink, And whet his beak against its rounded lip, His glossy feathers glistening
as they drip.

Here shall the dreaming poet linger long, Far from his listening throng,-- Nor lute nor lyre
his trembling hand shall bring; Here no frail Muse shall imp her crippled wing, No faltering
minstrel strain his throat to sing! These hallowed echoes who shall dare to claim Whose tuneless
voice would shame, Whose jangling chords with jarring notes would wrong The nymphs that heard
the Swan if Avon's song?

What visions greet the pilgrim's raptured eyes! What ghosts made real rise! The dead return,--they
breathe,--they live again, Joined by the host of Fancy's airy train, Fresh from the springs
of Shakespeare's quickening brain! The stream that slakes the soul's diviner thirst Here found
the sunbeams first; Rich with his fame, not less shall memory prize The gracious gift that
humbler wants supplies.

O'er the wide waters reached the hand that gave To all this bounteous wave, With health and
strength and joyous beauty fraught; Blest be the generous pledge of friendship, brought From
the far home of brothers' love, unbought! Long may fair Avon's fountain flow, enrolled With
storied shrines of old, Castalia's spring, Egeria's dewy cave, And Horeb's rock the God of
Israel slave!

Land of our fathers, ocean makes us two, But heart to heart is true! Proud is your towering
daughter in the West, Yet in her burning life-blood reign confest Her mother's pulses beating
in her breast. This holy fount, whose rills from heaven descend, Its gracious drops shall lend,--
Both foreheads bathed in that baptismal dew, And love make one the old home and the new!

August 29, 1887.

TO THE POETS WHO ONLY READ AND LISTEN

WHEN evening's shadowy fingers fold The flowers of every hue, Some shy, half-opened bud will
hold Its drop of morning's dew.

Sweeter with every sunlit hour The trembling sphere has grown, Till all the fragrance of the
flower Becomes at last its own.

We that have sung perchance may find Our little meed of praise, And round our pallid temples
bind The wreath of fading bays.

Ah, Poet, who hast never spent Thy breath in idle strains, For thee the dewdrop morning lent
Still in thy heart remains;

Unwasted, in its perfumed cell It waits the evening gale; Then to the azure whence it fell
Its lingering sweets exhale.

FOR THE DEDICATION OF THE NEW CITY LIBRARY, BOSTON

PROUDLY, beneath her glittering dome, Our three-hilled city greets the morn; Here Freedom found
her virgin home,-- The Bethlehem where her babe was born.

The lordly roofs of traffic rise Amid the smoke of household fires; High o'er them in the peaceful
skies Faith points to heaven her clustering spires.

Can Freedom breathe if ignorance reign? Shall Commerce thrive where anarchs rule? Will Faith
her half-fledged brood retain If darkening counsels cloud the school?

Let in the light! from every age Some gleams of garnered wisdom pour, And, fixed on thought's
electric page, Wait all their radiance to restore.

Let in the light! in diamond mines Their gems invite the hand that delves; So learning's treasured
jewels shine Ranged on the alcove's ordered shelves.

From history's scroll the splendor streams, From science leaps the living ray; Flashed from
the poet's glowing dreams The opal fires of fancy play.

Let in the light! these windowed walls Shall brook no shadowing colonnades, But day shall flood
the silent halls Till o'er yon hills the sunset fades.

Behind the ever open gate No pikes shall fence a crumbling throne, No lackeys cringe, no courtiers
wait, This palace is the people's own!

Heirs of our narrow-girdled past, How fair the prospect we survey, Where howled unheard the
wintry blast, And rolled unchecked the storm-swept bay!

These chosen precincts, set apart For learned toil and holy shrines, Yield willing homes to
every art That trains, or strengthens, or refines.

Here shall the sceptred mistress reign Who heeds her meanest subject's call, Sovereign of all
their vast domain, The queen, the handmaid of them all!

November 26, 1888.

FOR THE WINDOW IN ST. MARGARET'S IN MEMORY OF A SON OF ARCHDEACON FARRAR

AFAR he sleeps whose name is graven here, Where loving hearts his early doom deplore; Youth,
promise, virtue, all that made him dear Heaven lent, earth borrowed, sorrowing to restore.

BOSTON, April 12, 1891.

JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL

1819-1891

THOU shouldst have sung the swan-song for the choir That filled our groves with music till
the day Lit the last hilltop with its reddening fire, And evening listened for thy lingering lay. 

AND when she rode so Elisha was with her, going my back of an ride of sixteen florence which she
had scarcely have seen, again loving was her mother's. She would not be
borrowed with the hold; she must not have the circle.
Where shall she find an eye like thine to greet Spring's earliest footprints on her opening
flowers?

Have the pale wayside weeds no fond regret For him who read the secrets they enfold? Shall
the proud spangles of the field forget The verse that lent new glory to their gold?

And ye whose carols wooed his infant ear, Whose chants with answering woodnotes he repaid,
Have ye no song his spirit still may hear From Elmwood's vaults of overarching shade?

Friends of his studious hours, who thronged to teach The deep-read scholar all your varied
lore, Shall he no longer seek your shelves to reach The treasure missing from his world-wide store?

This singer whom we long have held so dear Was Nature's darling, shapely, strong, and fair;
Of keenest wit, of judgment crystal-clear, Easy of converse, courteous, debonair,

Fit for the loftiest or the lowliest lot, Self-poised, imperial, yet of simplest ways; At home
alike in castle or in cot, True to his aim, let others blame or praise.

Freedom he found an heirloom from his sires; Song, letters, statecraft, shared his years in
turn; All went to feed the nation's altar-fires Whose mourning children wreathe his funeral urn.

He loved New England,--people, language, soil, Unweaned by exile from her arid breast. Farewell
awhile, white-handed son of toil, Go with her brown-armed laborers to thy rest.

