Late one afternoon she was sitting behind the counter, wrapped in her shawl, and wondering
how soon she might draw down the blinds and retreat into the comparative cosiness of the back
room. She was not thinking of anything in particular, except perhaps in a hazy way of the lady
with the puffed sleeves, who after her long eclipse had reappeared the day before in sleeves
of a new cut, and bought some tape and needles. The lady still wore mourning, but she was evidently
lightening it, and Ann Eliza saw in this the hope of future orders. The lady had left the shop
about an hour before, walking away with her graceful step toward Fifth Avenue. She had wished
Ann Eliza good day in her usual affable way, and Ann Eliza thought how odd it was that they
should have been acquainted so long, and yet that she should not know the lady's name. From
this consideration her mind wandered to the cut of the lady's new sleeves, and she was vexed
with herself for not having noted it more carefully. She felt Miss Mellins might have liked
to know about it. Ann Eliza's powers of observation had never been as keen as Evelina's, when
the latter was not too self-absorbed to exert them. As Miss Mellins always said, Evelina could
"take patterns with her eyes": she could have cut that new sleeve out of a folded newspaper
in a trice! Musing on these things, Ann Eliza wished the lady would come back and give her
another look at the sleeve. It was not unlikely that she might pass that way, for she certainly
lived in or about the Square. Suddenly Ann Eliza remarked a small neat handkerchief on the
counter: it must have dropped from the lady's purse, and she would probably come back to get
it. Ann Eliza, pleased at the idea, sat on behind the counter and watched the darkening street.
She always lit the gas as late as possible, keeping the box of matches at her elbow, so that
if any one came she could apply a quick flame to the gas-jet. At length through the deepening
dusk she distinguished a slim dark figure coming down the steps to the shop. With a little
warmth of pleasure about her heart she reached up to light the gas. "I do believe I'll ask
her name this time," she thought. She raised the flame to its full height, and saw her sister
standing in the door.

There she was at last, the poor pale shade of Evelina, her thin face blanched of its faint
pink, the stiff ripples gone from her hair, and a mantle shabbier than Ann Eliza's drawn about
her narrow shoulders. The glare of the gas beat full on her as she stood and looked at Ann Eliza.

"Sister--oh, Evelina! I knowed you'd come!"

Ann Eliza had caught her close with a long moan of triumph. Vague words poured from her as
she laid her cheek against Evelina's--trivial inarticulate endearments caught from Mrs. Hawkins's
long discourses to her baby. 

There is also an additional security for the institution in the following article, namely,-- "whenever
a vacancy shall occur of said corporation, it shall be the duty with
the Trustees to fill the same in all reasonable and convenient dispatch.
 She did
not want to ask any questions yet: she simply wanted to feel the emptiness of the room brimmed
full again by the one presence that was warmth and light to her.

She knelt down before the grate, scraped some bits of coal and kindling from the bottom of
the coal-scuttle, and drew one of the rocking-chairs up to the weak flame. "There--that'll
blaze up in a minute," she said. She pressed Evelina down on the faded cushions of the rocking-chair,
and, kneeling beside her, began to rub her hands.

