"And why, 'surely not'?" retorted the other, again turning his face quickly toward his companion.
"Am I not distinguished enough in appearance? Do I look like the mob? True, I am a scrawny,
humpbacked crooked-faced, scarecrow of a man--but what matters that, if I do not look like
the mob? What is called fame is as scrawny and humpbacked and crooked-faced as my body--but
what matters that? Famous or infamous--to not look like the mob is the thing."

It is impossible to put in print the peculiar humor of pathetic regret, of sarcasm born of
contempt, of intolerant intellectual pride, that marked the last sentence, which was addressed
to the dog, as though the speaker turned from his human companion to a more worthy listener.

When Aaron King could find no words to reply, the novelist shot another question at him, with
startling suddenness. "Do you read my books?"

The other began a halting answer to the effect that everybody read Conrad Lagrange's books.
But the distinguished author interrupted; "Don't take the trouble to lie--out of politeness.
I shall ask you to tell me about them and you will be in a hole."

The young man laughed as he said, with straight-forward frankness, "I have read only one, Mr.
Lagrange."

"Which one?"

"The--ah--why--the one, you know--where the husband of one woman falls in love with the wife
of another who is in love with the husband of some one else. Pshaw!--what is the title? I mean
the one that created such a furore, you know."

"Yes"--said the man, to his dog--"O yes, Czar--I am the famous Conrad Lagrange. I observe"--he
added, turning to the other, with twinkling eyes--"I observe, Mr. King, that you really do
have a good bit of your mother's character. That you do not read my books is a recommendation
that I, better than any one, know how to appreciate." The light of humor went from his face,
suddenly, as it had come. Again he turned away; and his deep voice was gentle as he continued,
"Your mother is a rare and beautiful spirit, sir. Knowing her regard for the true and genuine,--her
love for the pure and beautiful,--I scarcely expected to find her son interested in the realism
of my fiction. I congratulate you, young man"--he paused; then added with indescribable bitterness--"that
you have not read my books."

For a few moments, Aaron King did not answer. At last, with quiet dignity, he said, "My mother
was a remarkable woman, Mr. Lagrange."

The other faced him quickly. "You say was? Do you mean--?"

"My mother is dead, sir. I was called home from abroad by her illness."

For a little, the older man sat looking into the gathering dusk. Then, deliberately, he refilled
his brier pipe, and, rising, said to his dog, "Come, Czar--it's time to go."

Without a word of parting to his human companion with the dog moving sedately by his side,
he disappeared into the darkness of the night.

       *       *       *       *       *

All the next day, Aaron King--in the hotel dining-room, the lobby, and on the veranda--watched
for the famous novelist. Even on the streets of the little city, he found himself hoping to
catch a glimpse of the uncouth figure and the homely, world-worn face of the man whose unusual
personality had so attracted him. The day was nearly gone when Conrad Lagrange again appeared.
As on the evening before, the young man was smoking his after-dinner cigar on the veranda,
when the Irish Setter and a whiff of pipe smoke announced the strange character's presence.

Without taking a seat, the novelist said, "I always have a look at the mountains, at this time
of the day, Mr. King--would you care to come? These mountains are the real thing, you know,
and well worth seeing--particularly at this hour." There was a gentle softness in his deep
voice, now--as unlike his usual speech as his physical appearance was unlike that of his younger
companion.

Aaron King arose quickly. "Thank you, Mr, Lagrange; I will go with pleasure."

Accompanied by the dog, they followed the avenue, under the giant pepper trees that shut out
the sky with their gnarled limbs and gracefully drooping branches, to the edge of the little
city; where the view to the north and northeast was unobstructed by houses. Just where the
street became a road, Conrad Lagrange--putting his hand upon his companion's arm--said in a
low voice, "This is the place."

Behind them, beautiful Fairlands lay, half lost, in its wilderness of trees and flowers. Immediately
in the foreground, a large tract of unimproved land brought the wild grasses and plants to
their very feet. Beyond these acres--upon which there were no trees--the orange groves were
massed in dark green blocks and squares; with, here and there, thin rows of palms; clumps of
peppers; or tall, plume-like eucalyptus; to mark the roads and the ranch homes. Beyond this--and
rising, seemingly, out of the groves--the San Bernardinos heaved their mighty masses into the
sky. It was almost dark. The city's lamps were lighted. The outlines of grove and garden were
fast being lost in the deepening dusk. The foothills, with the lower spurs and ridges of the
mountains, were softly modeled in dark blue against the deeper purple of the canyons and gorges.
Upon the cloudless sky that was lighted with clearest saffron, the lines of the higher crests
were sharply drawn; while the lonely, snow-capped peaks,--ten thousand feet above the darkening
valley below,--catching the last rays of the sun, glowed rose-pink--changing to salmon--deepening
into mauve--as the light failed. 

They are of nature because he threatens them am with the "place," the "head is laid of God," or have generously
with course. He finds his tribute, and for they are gently of strange-thrifty
and right fellow, and he proceeds to levy be won on i was comparatively
that he did in Camorra knew.

As they did exist his demands, stabbing or body-throwing show that he has anticipated of Mafia. The Capo
there is observable-principal but i are thus grasps the situation.
The sinking of Italians who will be highly be united is poignant.

Of pardon, the Hand of the things argues the mediaevalism. But historic mediaevalism would not be
hesitatingly right supply is no eye there is artistic emotions to
type of Vita, have haunted with such to save by the of the citizens
had known of the brown Mountains.

There, what are such whose phases of Vita-- the Mala, had the possibility,
but the day-- which are from-sorceries there was majestic in this large
Influences and which may be there be lost in lagrange? In it, does it
may not be indeed have fashioned of Palermo in its unimportant state--
the Camorra of growth, of the "Capo in testa" and "crook without Trino,"
also organized with sense-perpetuating city of the officers are acting
himself under head-- reasonably is the future.

Even, as has already been explained, that the phase of Camorra, receive
i in the influences, is practically wish by, safely in Naples. But
of most Camorra Vita now is self.

This me, where people, has the phenomenon.
 The atmosphere of these mountains and deserts and seas inspires to a self-assertion,
rather than to a clinging fast to the traditions and culture of others--and what, after all,
is a great artist, but one who greatly asserts himself?"

The younger man answered in a like vein; "Mr. Lagrange, your words recall to my mind a thought
in one of mother's favorite books. She quoted from the volume so often that, as a youngster,
I almost knew it by heart, and, in turn, it became my favorite. Indeed, I think that, with
mother's aid as an interpreter, it has had more influence upon my life than any other one book.
This is the thought: 'To understand the message of the mountains; to love them for what they
are; and, in terms of every-day life, to give expression to that understanding and love--is
a mark of true greatness of soul.' I do not know the author. The book is anonymous."

"I am the author of that book, sir," the strange man answered with simple dignity, "--or, rather,--I
should say,--I was the author," he added, with a burst of his bitter, sarcastic humor. "For
God's sake don't betray me. I am, now, the famous Conrad Lagrange, you understand. I have a
name to protect." His deep voice was shaken with feeling. His worn and rugged features twitched
and worked with emotion.

Aaron King listened in amazement to the words that were spoken by the famous novelist with
such pathetic regret and stinging self-accusation. Not knowing how to reply, he said casually,
"You are working here, Mr. Lagrange?"

"Working! Me? I don't work anywhere. I am a literary scavenger. I haunt the intellectual slaughter
pens, and live by the putrid offal that self-respecting writers reject. I glean the stinking
materials for my stories from the sewers and cesspools of life. For the dollars they pay, I
furnish my readers with those thrills that public decency forbids them to experience at first
hand. I am a procurer for the purposes of mental prostitution. My books breed moral pestilence
and spiritual disease. The unholy filth I write fouls the minds and pollutes the imaginations
of my readers. I am an instigator of degrading immorality and unmentionable crimes. Work! No,
young man, I don't work. Just now, I'm doing penance in this damned town. My rotten imaginings
have proven too much--even for me--and the doctors sent me West to recuperate,"

The artist could find no words that would answer. In silence, the two men turned away from
the mountains, and started back along the avenue by which they had come.

When they had walked some little distance, the young man said, "This is your first visit to
Fairlands, Mr. Lagrange?"

"I was here last year"--answered the other--"here and in the hills yonder. Have you been much
in the mountains?"

"Not in California. This is my first trip to the West. I have seen something of the mountains,
though, at tourist resorts--abroad."

"Which means," commented the other, "that you have never seen them at all."

Aaron King laughed. "I dare say you are right."

"And you--?" asked the novelist, abruptly, eyeing his companion. "What brought you to this
community that thinks so much more of its millionaires than it does of its mountains? Have
you come to Fairlands to work?"

"I hope to," answered the artist. "There are--there are reasons why I do not care to work,
for the present, in the East. I confess it was because I understood that Fairlands offered
exceptional opportunities for a portrait painter that I came here. To succeed in my work, you
know, one must come in touch with people of influence. It is sometimes easier to interest them
when they are away from their homes--in some place like this--where their social duties and
business cares are not so pressing."

"There is no question of the material that Fairlands has to offer, Mr. King," returned the
novelist, in his grim, sarcastic humor. "God! how I envy you!" he added, with a flash of earnest
passion. "You are young--You are beginning your life work--You are looking forward to success--You--"

"I must succeed"--the painter interrupted impetuously--"I must."

"Succeed in what? What do you mean by success?"

"Surely, you should understand what I mean by success," the younger man retorted. "You who
have gained--"

"Oh, yes; I forgot"--came the quick interruption--"I am the famous Conrad Lagrange. Of course,
you, too, must succeed. You must become the famous Aaron King. But perhaps you will tell me
why you must, as you call it, succeed?"

The artist hesitated before answering; then said with anxious earnestness, "I don't think I
can explain Mr. Lagrange. My mother--" he paused.

The older man stopped short, and, turning, stood for a little with his face towards the mountains
where San Bernardino's pyramid-like peak was thrust among the stars. When he spoke, every bit
of that bitter humor was gone from his deep voice. "I beg your pardon, Mr. King"--he said slowly--"I
am as ugly and misshapen in spirit as in body."

But when they had walked some way--again in silence--and were drawing near the hotel, the momentary
change in his mood passed. In a tone of stinging sarcasm he said. "You are on the right road,
Mr. King. You did well to come to Fairlands. It is quite evident that you have mastered the
modern technic of your art. To acquire fame, you have only to paint pictures of fast women
who have no morals at all--making them appear as innocent maidens, because they have the price
to pay, and, in the eyes of the world, are of social importance. Put upon your canvases what
the world will call portraits of distinguished citizens--making low-browed money--thugs to
look like noble patriots, and bloody butchers of humanity like benevolent saints. You need
give yourself no uneasiness about your success. It is easy. Get in with the right people; use
your family name and your distinguished ancestors; pull a few judicious advertising wires;
do a few artistic stunts; get yourself into the papers long and often, no matter how; make
yourself a fad; become a pet of the social autocrats--and your fame is assured. And--you will
be what I am."

The young man, quietly ignoring the humor of the novelist's words, said protestingly, "But,
surely, to portray human nature is legitimate art, Mr. Lagrange. Your great artists that the
West is to produce will not necessarily be landscape painters or write essays upon nature,
will they?"

"To portray human nature is legitimate work for an artist, yes"--agreed the novelist--"but
he must portray human nature plus. The forces that shape human nature are the forces that must
be felt in the picture and in the story. That these determining forces are so seldom seen by
the eyes of the world, is the reason for pictures and stories. The artist who fails to realize
for his world the character-creating elements in the life which he essays to paint or write,
fails, to just that degree, in being an artist; or is self-branded by his work as criminally
careless, a charlatan or a liar. That one who, for a price, presents a picture or a story without
regard for the influence of his production upon the characters of those who receive it, commits
a crime for which human law provides no adequate punishment. Being the famous Conrad Lagrange,
you understand, I have the right to say this. You will probably believe it, some day--if you
do not now. That is, you will believe it if you have the soul and the intelligence of an artist--if
you have not--it will not matter--and you will be happy in your success."

As the novelist finished speaking, the two men arrived at the hotel steps, where they halted,
with that indecision of chance acquaintances who have no plans beyond the passing moment, yet
who, in mutual interest, would extend the time of their brief companionship. While they stood
there, each hesitating to make the advance, a big touring car rolled up the driveway, and stopped
under the full light of the veranda. Aaron King recognized the lady of the observation car
platform, with her two traveling companions and the heavy-faced man who had met them at the
depot. As the party greeted the novelist and he returned their salutation, the artist turned
away to find again the chair, where, an hour before, the strange character who was to play
so large a part in his life and work had found him. The dog, Czar, as if preferring the companionship
of the artist to the company of those who were engaging his master's attention, followed the
young man.

From where he sat, the painter could see the tall, uncouth figure of the famous novelist standing
beside the automobile, while the occupants of the car were, apparently, absorbingly interested
in what he was saying. The beautiful face of the woman was brightly animated as she evidently
took the lead in the conversation. The artist could see her laughing and shaking her head.
Once, he even heard her speak the writer's name; whereupon, every lounger upon the veranda,
within hearing, turned to observe the party with curious interest. Several times, the young
man noted that she glanced in his direction, half inquiringly, with a suggestion of being pleased,
as though she were glad to have seen him in company with her celebrated friend. Then the man
who held so large a place in the eyes of the world drew back, lifting his hat; the automobile
started forward; the party called, "Good night." The woman's voice rose clear--so that the
spectators might easily understand--"Remember, Mr. Lagrange--I shall expect you Thursday--day
after to-morrow."

As Conrad Lagrange came up the hotel steps, the eyes of all were upon him; but he--apparently
unconscious of the company--went straight to the artist; where, without a word, he dropped
into the vacant chair by the young man's side, and began thoughtfully refilling his brier pipe.
Flipping the match over the veranda railing, and expelling a prodigious cloud of smoke, the
novelist said grimly, "And there--my fellow artist--go your masters. I trust you observed them
with proper reverence. I would have introduced you, but I do not like to take the initiative
in such outrages. That will come soon enough. The young should be permitted to enjoy their
freedom while they may."

Aaron King laughed. "Thank you for your consideration," he returned, "but I do not think I
am in any immediate danger."

"Which"--the other retorted dryly--"betrays either innocence, caution, or an unusual understanding
of life. I am not, now, prepared to say whether you know too much or too little."

"I confess to a degree of curiosity," said the artist. "I traveled in the same Pullman with
three of the party. May I ask the names of your friends?"

The other answered in his bitterest vein; "I have no friends, Mr. King--I have only admirers.
As for their names"--he continued--"there is no reason why I should withhold either who they
are or what they are. Besides, I observed that the reigning 'Goddess' in the realm of 'Modern
Art' has her eye upon you, already. As I shall very soon be commanded to drag you to her 'Court,'
it is well for you to be prepared."

The young man laughed as the other paused to puff vigorously at his brier pipe.

"That red-faced, bull-necked brute, is James Rutlidge, the son and heir of old Jim Rutlidge,"
continued the novelist. "Jim inherited a few odd millions from his father, and killed himself
spending them in unmentionable ways. The son is most worthily carrying out his father's mission,
with bright prospects of exceeding his distinguished parent's fondest dreams. But, unfortunately,
he is hampered by lack of adequate capital--the bulk of the family wealth having gone with
the old man."

"Do you mean James Rutlidge--the great critic?" exclaimed Aaron King, with increased interest.

"The same," answered the other, with his twisted smile. "I thought you would recognize his
name. As an artist, you will undoubtedly have much to do with him. His friendship is one of
the things that are vital to your success. Believe me, his power in modern art is a red-faced,
bull-necked power that you will do well to recognize. Of his companions," he went on, "the
horrible example is Edward J. Taine--friend and fellow martyr of James Rutlidge, Senior. Satan,
perhaps, can explain how he has managed to outlive his partner. His home is in New York, but
he has a big house on Fairlands Heights, with large orange groves in this district. He comes
here winters for his health. He'll die before long. The effervescing young creature is his
daughter, Louise--by his first wife. The 'Goddess'--who is not much older than his daughter--is
the present Mrs. Taine."

"His wife!"

The artist's exclamation drew a sarcastic chuckle from the other. "I am prepared, now, to testify
to your unworldly innocence of heart and mind," he gibed. "And, pray, why not his wife? You
see, she was the ward of old Rutlidge--a niece, it is said. Mrs. Rutlidge--as you have no doubt
heard--killed herself. It was shortly after her death that Jim took this little one into his
home. She and young Jim grew up together. What was more natural or fitting than that her guardian--when
he was about to depart from this sad world where human flesh is not able to endure an unlimited
amount of dissipation--should give the girl as a lively souvenir to his bosom friend and companion
of his unmentionable deviltries? The transaction also enabled him, you understand, to draw
upon the Taine millions; and so permitted him to finish his distinguished career with credit.
You, with your artist's extravagant fancy, have, no doubt, been thinking of her as fashioned
for love. I assure you she knows better. The world in which she has been schooled has left
her no hazy ideas as to what she was made for."

"I have heard of the Taines," said the younger man, thoughtfully. "I suppose this is the same
family. They are very prominent in the social world, and quite generous patrons of the arts?"

"In the eyes of the world," said the novelist, "they are the noblest of our Nobility. They
dwell in the rarefied atmosphere of millions. By the dollarless multitudes they are envied.
They assume to be the cultured of the cultured. Patrons of the arts! Why, man, they have autographed
copies of all my books! They and their kind feed me and my kind. They will feed you, sir, or
by God you'll starve! But you need have no fear that the crust of genius will be your portion,"
he added meaningly. "As I remarked--the 'Goddess' has her eye upon you."

"And why do you so distinguish the lady?" asked the artist, quietly amused--with just a hint
of well-bred condescension. "Has Mrs. Taine such powerful influence in the world of art?"

If Conrad Lagrange noticed his companion's manner he passed it by. "I perceive," he said, "that
you are still somewhat lacking in the rudiments of your profession. The statement of faith
adhered to by modern climbers on the ladder of fame--such as I have been, and you aspire to
be--is that 'Pull' wins. Our creed is 'Graft.' By 'Influence' we stand, by 'Influence' we fall.
It pleases Mrs. Taine to be, in the world of art, a lobbyist. She knows the insides of the
inside rings and cliques and committees that say what is, and what is not, art; that declare
who shall be, and who shall not be, artists. She has power with those who, in their might,
grant position and place in the halls of fame; as their kinsmen in the political world pass
the plums to those who court their favor. The great critics who thunder anathemas at the poor
devils who are outside, eat out of her hand. Jim Rutlidge and his unholy crew are at her beck
and call. Jim, you see, needing all he can get of the Taine millions, hopes to marry Louise.
You can scarcely blame the young and beautiful Mrs. Taine for not being interested in her husband--who
is going to die so soon. The poor girl must have some amusement, so she interests herself in
art, don't you know. She gives more dinners to artists and critics; buys more pictures and
causes more pictures to be bought; mothers more art-culture clubs; discovers more new and startling
geniuses; in short, has a larger and better trained company of lions than any one else in the
business. She deals in lions. It's her fad to collect them--same as others collect butterflies
or postage stamps. She has one other fad that is less harmful and just as deceptive--a carefully
nourished reputation for prudery. I sometimes think the Gods must laugh or choke. That woman
would no more speak to you without a proper introduction than she would appear on the street
without shoes or stockings. She has never been seen in an evening gown. Her beautiful shoulders
have never been immodestly bared to the eyes of the world."

The artist thought of that moment on the observation car platform.

Presently, the novelist--refilling his pipe--said whimsically, "Some day, Mr. King, I shall
write a true story. It shall be a novel of to-day, with characters drawn from life; and these
characters, in my story, shall bear the names of the forces that have made them what they are
and which they, in turn, have come to represent. I mean those forces that are so coloring and
shaping the life and thought of this age."

"That ought to be interesting," said the other, "but I am not quite sure that I understand."

"Probably you don't. You have not been thinking much of these things. You have your eye upon
Fame, and that old witch lives in another direction. To illustrate--our bull-necked friend
and illustrious critic, James Rutlidge, in my story, will be named 'Sensual.' His distinguished
father was one 'Lust.' The horrible example, Mr. Edward Taine,--boon companion of 'Lust,'--is
'Materialism'."

"Good!" laughed the artist. "I see; go on. Who is the daughter of 'Materialism?'"

"'Ragtime'," promptly returned the novelist, with a grin. "Who else could she be?"

"And Mrs. Taine?" urged the other.

The novelist responded quickly; "Why, the reigning 'Goddess' in the realm of 'Modern Art,'
is 'The Age,' of course. Do you see? 'The Age' given over to 'Materialism' for base purposes
by his companion, 'Lust.' And you----" he paused.

"Go on," cried the young man, "who or what am I in your story?"

"You, sir,"--answered Conrad Lagrange, seriously,--"in my story of modern life, represent Art.
It remains to be seen whether 'The Age' will add you to her collection, or whether some other
influence will intervene."

"And you"--persisted the artist--"surely you are in the story."

"I am very much in the story," the other answered. "My name is 'Civilization.' My story will
be published when I am dead. I have a reputation to sustain, you know."

Aaron King was not laughing, now. Something, that lay deep hidden beneath the rude exterior
of the man, made itself felt in his deep voice. Some powerful force, underlying his whimsical
words, gripped the artist's mind--compelling him to search for hidden meanings in the novelist's
fanciful suggestions.

A few moments passed in silence before the young man said slowly, "I met a character, yesterday,
Mr. Lagrange, that might be added to your cast."

"There are several that will be added to my cast," the other answered dryly.

To which the painter returned, "Did you notice that woman with the disfigured face, at the depot?"

Conrad Lagrange looked at his companion, quickly. "Yes."

"Do you know her?" questioned the artist.

"No. Why do you ask?"

"Only because she interested me, and because she seemed to know your friends--Mr. Rutlidge
and Mrs. Taine."

The novelist knocked the ashes from his pipe by tapping it on the veranda railing. The action
seemed to express a peculiar mental effort; as though he were striving to recall something
that had gone from his memory. "I saw what happened at the depot, of course," he said slowly.
"I have seen the woman before. She lives here in Fairlands. Her name is Miss Willard. No one
seems to know much about her. I can't get over the impression that I ought to know her--that
I have met and known her somewhere years ago. Her manner, yesterday, at seeing Mrs. Taine,
was certainly very strange." As if to free his mind from the unsuccessful effort to remember,
he rose to his feet. "But why should she be added to the characters in my novel, Mr. King?
What does she represent?"

"Her name,"--said the artist,--"in your study of life, is suggested by her face--so beautiful
on the one side--so distorted on the other--her name should be 'Symbol'."

"There really is hope for you," returned the older man, with his quizzing smile. "Good night.
Come, Czar." He passed into the hotel--the dog at his heels.

It was two days later--Thursday--that Conrad Lagrange made his memorable visit to the Taines--memorable,
in my story, because, at that time, Mrs. Taine gave such unmistakable evidence of her interest
in Aaron King and his future.

Chapter IV

At the House on Fairlands Heights

As my friend the social scientist would say; it is a phenomenon peculiar to urban life, that
the social strata are more or less clearly defined geographically.

That is,--in the English of everyday,--people of different classes live in different parts
of the city. As certain streets and blocks are given to the wholesale establishments, others
to retail stores, and still others to the manufacturing plants; so there are the tenement districts,
the slums, and the streets where may be found the homes of wealth and fashion.

In Fairlands, the social rating is largely marked by altitude. The city, lying in the lap of
the hills and looking a little down upon the valley--plebeian business together with those
who do the work of Fairlands occupies the lowest levels in the corporate limits. The heights
are held by Fairlands' Pride. Between these two extremes, the Fairlanders are graded fairly
by the levels they occupy. It is most gratifying to observe how generally the citizens of this
fortunate community aspire to higher things; and to note that the peculiarly proud spirit of
this people is undoubtedly explained by this happy arrangement which enables every one to look
down upon his neighbor.

The view from the winter home of the Taines was magnificent.

From the window of the room where Mrs. Taine sat, that afternoon, one could have looked down
upon all Fairlands. One might, indeed, have done better than that. Looking over the wealth
of semi-tropical foliage that--save for the tower of the red-brick Y.M.C.A. building, the white,
municipal flagstaff, and the steeples and belfries of the churches--hid the city, one might
have looked up at the mountains. High, high, above the low levels occupied by the hill-climbing
Fairlanders, the mountains lift their heads in solemn dignity; looking down upon the loftiest
Fairlander of them all--looking down upon even the Taines themselves.

But the glory of Mrs. Taine's God was not declared by the mountains. She sat by the window,
indeed, but her eyes were upon the open pages of a book--a popular novel that by some strange
legal lapse of the governmental conscience was--and is still--permitted in print.

The author of the story that so engrossed Mrs. Taine was--in her opinion--almost as great in
literature as Conrad Lagrange, himself. By those in authority who pronounce upon the worthiness
or the unworthiness of writer folk, he is, to-day, said to be one of the greatest writers of
his generation. He is a realist--a modern of the moderns. His pen has never been debased by
an inartistic and antiquated idealism. His claim to genius rests securely upon the fact that
he has no ideals. He writes for that select circle of leaders who, like the Taines and the
Rutlidges, are capable of appreciating his art. All of which means that he tells filthy stories
in good English. That his stories are identical in material and motive with the vile yarns
that are permitted only in the lowest class barber shops and in disreputable bar-rooms, in
no way detracts from the admiring praise of his critics, the generosity of his publishers,
or the appreciation of those for whom he writes.

With tottering step and feeble, shaking limbs, Edward Taine entered the apartment. As he stood,
silently looking at his young wife, his glazed, red-rimmed eyes fed upon her voluptuous beauty
with a look of sullen, impotent lustfulness that was near insanity. A spasm of coughing seized
him; he gasped and choked, his wasted body shaken and racked, his dissipated face hideously
distorted by the violence of the paroxysm. Wrecked by the flesh he had lived to gratify, he
was now the mocked and tortured slave of the very devils of unholy passion that he had so often
invoked to serve him. Repulsive as he was, he was an object to awaken the deepest pity.

Mrs. Taine, looking up from her novel, watched him curiously--without moving or changing her
attitude of luxurious repose--without speaking. Almost, one would have said, a shade of a smile
was upon her too perfect features.

When the man--who had dropped weak and exhausted into a chair--could speak, he glared at her
in a pitiful rage, and, in his throaty whisper, said with a curse, "You seem to be amused."

Still, she did not speak. A tantalizing smile broke over her face, and she stretched her beautiful
body lazily in her chair, as a well-conditioned animal stirs in sleek, physical contentment.

Again, with curses, he said, "I'm glad you so enjoy my company. To be laughed at, even, is
better than your damned indifference."

"You misjudge me," she answered in a voice that, low and soft, was still richly colored by
the wealth of vitality that found expression in her splendid body. "I am not at all indifferent
to your condition--quite the contrary. I am intensely interested. As for the amusement you
afford me--please consider--for three years I have amused you. Can you deny me my turn?"

He laughed with a hideously mirthless chuckle as he returned with ghastly humor, "I have had
the worth of my money. I advise you to make the most of your opportunity. I shall make things
as pleasant for you as I can, while I am with you, but, as you know, I am liable to leave you
at any time, now."

"Pray don't hurry away," she replied sweetly. "I shall miss you so when you are gone."

He glared at her while she laughed mockingly.

"Where is everybody?" he asked. "The place is as lonely as a tomb."

"Louise is out riding with Jim."

"And what are you doing at home?" he demanded suspiciously.

"Me? Oh I remained to care for you--to keep you from being lonely."

"You lie. You are expecting some one."

She laughed.

"Who is it this time?" he persisted.

"Your insinuations are so unwarranted," she murmured.

"Whom are you expecting?"

"Dear me! how persistently you look for evil," she mocked. "You know perfectly well that, thanks
to my tact, I am considered quite the model wife. You really should cultivate a more trusting
disposition."

Another fit of coughing seized him, and while he suffered she again watched him with that curious
air of interest. When he could command his voice, he gasped in a choking whisper, "You fiend!
I know, and you know that I know. Am I so innocent that Jack Hanover, and Charlie Rodgers,
and Black Whitman, and as many more of their kind, can make love to you under my very nose
without my knowing it? You take damned good care--posing as a prude with your fad about immodest
dress--that the world sees nothing; but you have never troubled to hide it from me."

Deliberately, she arose and stood before him. "And why should I trouble to hide anything from
you?" she demanded. "Look at me"--she posed as if to exhibit for his critical inspection the
charm of her physical beauty--"Look at me; am I to waste all this upon you? You tell me that
you have had your money's worth--surely, the purchase price is mine to spend as I will. Even
suppose that I were as evil as your foul mind sees me, what right have you to object? Are you
so chaste that you dare cast a stone at me? Am I to have no pleasure in this hell you have
made for me but the horrible pleasure of watching you in the hell you have made for yourself?
Be satisfied that the world does not see your shame--though it's from no consideration of you,
but wholly for myself, that I am careful. As for my modesty--you know it is not a fad but a
necessity."

"That is just it"--he retorted--"it is the way you make a fad of a necessity! Forced to hide
your shoulders, you make a virtue of concealment. You make capital of the very thing of which
you are ashamed."

"And is not that exactly what we all do?" she asked with brutal cynicism. "Do you not fear
the eyes of the world as much as I? Be satisfied that I play the game of respectability with
you--that I give the world no cause for talk. You may as well be," she finished with devilish
frankness, "for you are past helping yourself in the matter."

As she finished, a servant appeared to announce Mr. Conrad Lagrange; and the tall, uncouth
figure of the novelist stood framed in the doorway; his sharp eyes regarding them with that
peculiar, quizzing, baffling look.

Edward Taine laughed with that horrid chuckle. "Howdy-do, Lagrange--glad to see you."

Mrs. Taine went forward to greet the caller; saying as she gave him her hand, "You arrived
just in time, Mr. Lagrange; Edward and I were discussing your latest book. We think it a masterpiece
of realistic fiction. I'm sure it will add immensely to your fame. I hear it talked of everywhere
as the most popular novel of the year. You wonderful man! How do you do it?"

"I don't do it," answered Conrad Lagrange, looking straight into her eyes. "It does itself.
My books are really true products of the age that reads them; and--to paraphrase a statesman
who was himself a product of his age--for those who read my books they are just the kind of
books that I would expect such people to read."

Mrs. Taine looked at him with a curious, half-doubtful half-wistful expression; as though she
glimpsed a hint of a meaning that did not appear upon the surface of his words. "You do say
such--such--twisty things," she murmured. "I don't think I always understand what you mean;
but when you look at me that way, I feel as though my maid had neglected to finish hooking me up."

The novelist bowed in mock gallantry--a movement which made his ungainly form appear more grotesque
than ever. "Indeed, madam, to my humble eyes, you are most beautifully and fittingly--ah--hooked
up." He turned toward the invalid. "And how is the fortunate husband of the charming Mrs. Taine
to-day?"

"Fine, Lagrange, fine," said the man--a cough interrupting his words. "Really, I think that
Gertrude is unduly alarmed about my condition. In this glorious climate, I feel like a three-year-old."

"You are looking quite like yourself," returned the novelist.

"There's nothing at all the matter with me but a slight bronchial trouble," continued the other,
coughing again. Then, to his wife--"Dearest, won't you ring, please; I'm sure it's time for
my toddy; perhaps Mr. Lagrange will join me in a drink. What'll it be, Lagrange?"

"Nothing, thanks, at this hour."

"No? But you'll pardon me, I'm sure--Doctor's orders you know."

A servant appeared. Mrs. Taine took the glass and carried it to her husband with her own hand,
saying with tender solicitude, "Don't you think, dear, that you should lie down for a while?
Mr. Lagrange will remain for dinner, you know. You must not tire yourself. I'm sure he will
excuse you. I'll manage somehow to amuse him until Jim and Louise return."

"I believe I will rest a little, Gertrude." He turned to the guest--"While there is nothing
really wrong, you know, Lagrange, still it's best to be on the safe side."

"By all means," said the novelist, heartily. "You should take care of yourself. Don't, I beg,
permit me to detain you."

Mrs. Taine, with careful tenderness, accompanied her husband to the door. When he had passed
from the room, she faced the novelist, with--"Don't you think Edward is really very much worse,
Mr. Lagrange? I keep up appearances, you know, but--" she paused with a charming air of perplexed
and worried anxiety.

"Your husband is certainly not a well man, madam--but you keep up appearances wonderfully.
I really don't see how you manage it. But I suppose that for one of your nature it is natural."

Again, she received his words with that look of doubtful understanding--as though sensing some
meaning beneath the polite, commonplace surface. Then, as if to lead away from the subject--"You
must really tell me what you think of our California home. I told you in New York, you remember,
that I should ask you, the first thing. We were so sorry to have missed you last year. Please
be frank. Isn't it beautiful?"

"Very beautiful"--he answered--"exquisite taste--perfect harmony with modern art." His quizzing
eyes twinkled, and a caricature of a smile distorted his face. "It fairly smells to heaven
of the flesh pots."

She laughed merrily. "The odor should not be unfamiliar to you," she retorted. "By all accounts,
your royalties are making you immensely rich. How wonderful it must be to be famous--to know
that the whole world is talking about you! And that reminds me--who is your distinguished looking
friend at the hotel? I was dying to ask you, the other night, but didn't dare. I know he is
somebody famous."

Conrad Lagrange, studying her face, answered reluctantly, "No, he is not famous; but I fear
he is going to be."

"Another twisty saying," she retorted. "But I mean to have an answer, so you may as well speak
plainly. Have you known him long? What is his name? And what is he--a writer?"

"His name is Aaron King. His mother and I grew up in the same neighborhood. He is an artist."

"How romantic! Do you mean that he belongs to that old family of New England Kings?"

"He is the last of them. His father was Aaron King--a prominent lawyer and politician in his
state."

"Oh, yes! I remember! Wasn't there something whispered at the time of his death--some scandal
that was hushed up--money stolen--or something? What was it? I can't think."

"Whatever it was, Mrs. Taine, the son had nothing to do with it. Don't you think we might let
the dead man stay safely buried?" There was an ominous glint in Conrad Lagrange's eyes.

Mrs. Taine answered hurriedly, "Indeed, yes, Mr. Lagrange. You are right. And you shall bring
Mr. King out to see me. If he is as nice as he looks, I promise you I will be very good to
him. Perhaps I may even help him a little, through Jim, you know--bring him in touch with the
right people and that sort of thing. What does he paint?"

"Portraits." The novelist's tone was curt.

"Then I am sure I could do a great deal for him."

"And I am sure you would do a great deal to him," said Conrad Lagrange, bluntly.

She laughed again. "And just what do you mean by that, Mr. Lagrange? I'm not sure whether it
is complimentary or otherwise."

"That depends upon what you consider complimentary," retorted the other. "As I told you--Aaron
King is an artist."

Again, she favored him with that look of doubtful understanding; shaking her head with mock
sadness, and making a long sigh. "Another twister"--she said woefully--"just when we were getting
along so beautifully, too. Won't you try again?"

"In words of one syllable then--let him alone. He is, to-day, exactly where I was twenty years
ago. For God's sake, let him alone. Play your game with those who are no loss to the world;
or with those who, like me, are already lost. Let this man do his work. Don't make him what I am."

"Oh dear, oh dear," she laughed, "and these are words of one syllable! You talk as though I
were a dreadful dragon seeking a genius to devour!"

"You are," said the novelist, gruffly.

"How nice. I'm all shivery with delight, already. You really must bring him now, you see. You
might as well, for, if you don't, I'll manage some other way when you are not around to protect
him. You don't want to trust him to me unprotected, do you?"

"No, and I won't," retorted Conrad Lagrange--which, though Mrs. Taine did not remark it, was
also a twister.

"But after all, perhaps he won't come," she said with mock anxiety.

"Don't worry madam--he's just as much a fool as the rest of us."

As the novelist spoke, they heard the voices of Miss Taine and her escort, James Rutlidge.
Mrs. Taine had only time to shake a finger in playful warning at her companion, and to whisper,
"Mind you bring your artist to me, or I'll get him when you're not looking; and listen, don't
tell Jim about him; I must see what he is like, first."

At lunch, the next day, Conrad Lagrange greeted the artist in his bitterest humor. "And how
is the famous Aaron King, to-day? I trust that the greatest portrait painter of the age is
well; that the hotel people have been properly attentive to the comfort of their illustrious
guest? The world of art can ill afford to have its rarest genius suffer from any lack of the
service that is due his greatness."

The young man's face flushed at his companion's mocking tone; but he laughed. "I missed you
at breakfast."

"I was sleeping off the effect of my intellectual debauch--it takes time to recover from a
dinner with 'Materialism,' 'Sensual,' 'Ragtime' and 'The Age'," the other returned, the menu
in his hand. "What slop are they offering to put in our troughs for this noon's feed?"

Again, Aaron King laughed. But as the novelist, with characteristic comments and instructions
to the waitress, ordered his lunch, the artist watched him as though waiting with interest
his further remarks on the subject of his evening with the Taines.

When the girl was gone, Conrad Lagrange turned again to his companion, and from under his scowling
brows regarded him much as a withered scientist might regard an interesting insect under his
glass. "Permit me to congratulate you," he said suggestively--as though the bug had succeeded
in acting in some manner fully expected by the scientist but wholly disgusting to him.

The artist colored again as he returned curiously, "Upon what?"

"Upon the start you have made toward the goal you hope to reach."

"What do you mean?"

"Mrs. Taine wants you."

"You are pleased to be facetious." Under the eyes of his companion, Aaron King felt that his
reply did not at all conceal his satisfaction.

"I am pleased to be exact. I repeat--Mrs. Taine wants you. I am ordered by the reigning 'Goddess'
of 'Modern Art'--'The Age'--to bring you into her 'Court.' You have won favor in her sight.
She finds you good to look at. She hopes to find you--as good as you look. If you do not disappoint
her, your fame is assured."

"Nonsense," said the artist, somewhat sharply; nettled by the obvious meaning and by the sneering
sarcasm of the novelist's words and tone.

To which the other returned suggestively, "It is precisely because you can say, 'nonsense,'
when you know it is no nonsense at all, but the exact truth, that your chance for fame is so
good, my friend."

"And did some reigning 'Goddess' insure your success and fame?"

The older man turned his peculiar, penetrating, baffling eyes full upon his companion's face,
and in a voice full of cynical sadness answered, "Exactly so. I paid court to the powers that
be. They gave me the reward I sought; and--they made me what I am."

So it came about that Conrad Lagrange, in due time, introduced Aaron King to the house on Fairlands
Heights. Or,--as the novelist put it,--he, "Civilization",--in obedience to the commands of
her "Royal Highness", "The Age",--presented the artist at her "Majesty's Court"; that the young
man might sue for the royal favor.

It was, perhaps, a month after the presentation ceremony, that the painter made what--to him,
at least--was an important announcement.

Chapter V

The Mystery of the Rose Garden

The acquaintance of Aaron King and Conrad Lagrange had developed rapidly into friendship.

The man whom the world had chosen to place upon one of the highest pinnacles of its literary
favor, and who--through some queer twist in his nature--was so lonely and embittered by his
exaltation, seemed to find in the younger man who stood with the crowd at the foot of the ladder,
something that marked him as different from his fellows.

Whether it was the artist's mother; some sacredly hidden memories of Lagrange's past; or, perhaps,
some fancied recognition of the artist's genius and its possibilities; the strange man gave
no hint; but he constantly sought the company of Aaron King, with an openness that made his
preference for the painter's society very evident. If he had said anything about it, at all,
Conrad Lagrange, likely, would have accounted for his interest, upon the ground that his dog,
Czar, found the companionship agreeable. Their friendship, meanwhile--in the eyes of the world--conferred
a peculiar distinction upon the young man--a distinction not at all displeasing to the ambitious
artist; and the value of which he, probably, overrated.

To Aaron King--aside from the subtle flattery of the famous novelist's attention--there was
in the personality of the odd character a something that appealed to him with peculiar strength.
Perhaps it was that the man's words, so often sharp and stinging with bitter sarcasm, seemed
always to carry a hidden meaning that gave, as it were, glimpses of another nature buried deeply
beneath a wreck of ruined dreams and disappointing achievements. Or, it may have been that,
under all the cruel, world-hardness of the thoughts expressed, the young man sensed an undertone
of pathetic sadness. Or, again, perhaps, it was those rare moments, when--on some walk that
carried them beyond the outskirts of the town, and brought the mountains into unobstructed
view--the clouds of bitterness were lifted; and the man spoke with poetic feeling of the realities
of life, and of the true glory and mission of the arts; counseling his friend with an intelligence
as true and delicate as it was rare and fine.

It was nearly two months after Conrad Lagrange had introduced the young man at the house on
Fairlands Heights. The hour was late. The painter--returning from a dinner and an evening at
the Taine home--found the novelist, with pipe and dog, in a deserted corner of the hotel veranda.
Dropping into the chair that was placed as if it awaited his coming, the artist--with no word
of greeting to the man--bent over the brown head that was thrust so insistently against his
knee, as Czar, with gently waving tail, made him welcome. Looking affectionately into the brown
eyes while he stroked the silky coat, the young man answered in the language that all dogs
understand; while the novelist, from under his scowling brows, regarded the two intently.

"They were disappointed that you were not there," said the painter, presently. "Mrs. Taine,
particularly, charged me to say that she will not forgive, until you do proper penance for
your sin."

"I had better company," retorted the other. "Czar and I went for a look at the mountains. I
suppose you have noticed that Czar does not care for the Fairlands Heights crowd. He is very
peculiar in his friendships--for a dog. His instincts are remarkable."

At the sound of his name, Czar transferred his attentions, for a moment, to his master; then
stretched himself in his accustomed place beside the novelist's chair.

The artist laughed. "I did my best to invent an acceptable excuse for you; but she said it
was no use--nothing short of your own personal prayers for mercy would do."

"Humph; you should have reminded her that I purchased an indulgence some weeks ago."

Again, the other laughed shortly. Watching him closely, Conrad Lagrange said, in his most sneering
tones, "I trust, young man, that you are not failing to make good use of your opportunities.
Let's see--dinner and the evening five times--afternoon calls as many--with motor trips to
points of interest--and one theater party to Los Angeles--believe me; it is not often that
struggling genius is so rewarded--before it has accomplished anything bad enough to merit such
attention."

"I have been idling most shamefully, haven't I?" said the artist.

"Idling!" rasped the other. "You have been the busiest hay-maker in the land. These scientific,
intensive cultivation farmers of California are not in your class when it comes to utilizing
the sunshine. Take my advice and continue your present activity without bothering yourself
by any sentimental thoughts of your palette and brushes. The mere vulgar tools of your craft
are of minor importance to one of your genius and opportunity."

Then, in a half embarrassed manner, Aaron King made his announcement. "That may all be," he
said, "but just the same, I am going to work."

"I knew it"--returned the other, in mocking triumph--"I knew it the moment you came up the
steps there. I could tell it by your walk; by the air with which you carried yourself; by your
manner, your voice, your laugh--you fairly reek of prosperity and achievement--you are going
to paint her portrait."

"And why not?" retorted the young man, rather sharply, a trifle nettled by the other's tone.

"Why not, indeed!" murmured the novelist. "Indeed, yes--by all means! It is so exactly the
right thing to do that it is startling. You scale the heights of fame with such confident certainty
in every move that it is positively uncanny to watch you."

"If one's work is true, I fail to see why one should not take advantage of any influence that
can contribute to his success," said the painter. "I assure you I am not so wealthy that I
can afford to refuse such an attractive commission. You must admit that the beautiful Mrs.
Taine is a subject worthy the brush of any artist; and I suppose it is conceivable that I might
be ambitious to make a genuinely good job of it."

The older man, as though touched by the evident sincerity of the artist's words, dropped his
sneering tone and spoke earnestly; "The beautiful Mrs. Taine is a subject worthy a master's
brush, my friend. But take my word for it, if you paint her portrait as a master would paint
it, you will sign your own death warrant--so far as your popularity and fame as an artist goes."

"I don't believe it," declared Aaron King, flatly.

"I know you don't. If you did, and still accepted the commission, you wouldn't be fit to associate
with honest dogs like Czar, here."

"But why"--persisted the artist--"why do you insist that my portrait of Mrs. Taine will be
disastrous to my success, just to the degree that it is a work of genuine merit?"

To which the novelist answered, cryptically, "If you have not the eyes to see the reason, it
will matter little whether you know it or not. If you do see the reason, and, still, produce
a portrait that pleases your sitter, then you will have paid the price; you will receive your
reward; and"--the speaker's tone grew sad and bitter--"you will be what I am."

With this, he arose abruptly and, without another word, stalked into the hotel; the dog following
with quiet dignity, at his heels.

From the beginning of their acquaintance, almost, the novelist and the artist had dropped into
the habit of taking their meals together. At breakfast, the next morning, Conrad Lagrange reopened
the conversation he had so abruptly closed the night before. "I suppose," he said, "that you
will set up a studio, and do the thing in proper style?"

"Mrs. Taine told me of a place that is for rent, and that she thinks would be just the thing,"
returned the young man. "It is across the road from that big grove owned by Mr. Taine. I was
wondering if you would care to walk out that way with me this morning and help me look it over."

The older man's hearty acceptance of the invitation assured the artist of his genuine interest,
and, an hour later--after Aaron King had interviewed the agent and secured the keys, with the
privilege of inspecting the premises--the two set out together.

They found the place on the eastern edge of the town; half-hidden by the orange groves that
surrounded it on every side. The height of the palms that grew along the road in front, the
pepper and eucalyptus trees that overshadowed the house, and the size of the orange-trees that
shut in the little yard with walls of green, marked the place as having been established before
the wealth of the far-away East discovered the peculiar charm of the Fairlands hills. The lawn,
the walks, and the drive were unkempt and overgrown with weeds. The house itself,--a small
cottage with a wide porch across the front and on the side to the west,--unpainted for many
seasons, was tinted by the brush of the elements, a soft and restful gray.

But the artist and his friend, as they approached, exclaimed aloud at the beauty of the scene;
for, as if rejoicing in their freedom from restraint, the roses had claimed the dwelling, so
neglected by man, as their own. Up every post of the porch they had climbed; over the porch
roof, they spread their wealth of color; over the gables, screening the windows with graceful
lattice of vine and branch and leaf and bloom; up to the ridge and over the cornice, to the
roof of the house itself--even to the top of the chimney they had won their way--and there,
as if in an ecstasy of wanton loveliness, flung, a spray of glorious, perfumed beauty high
into the air.

On the front porch, the men turned to look away over the gentle slope of the orange groves,
on the other side of the road, to the towering peaks and high ridges of the mountains--gleaming
cold and white in the winter of their altitude. To the northeast, San Bernardino reared his
head in lonely majesty--looking directly down upon the foothills and the feeble dwellers in
the valley below. Far beyond, and surrounded by the higher ridges and peaks and canyons of
the range, San Gorgonio sat enthroned in the skies--the ruler of them all. From the northeast,
westward, they viewed the mighty sweep of the main range to Cajon Pass and the San Gabriels,
beyond, with San Antonio, Cucamonga, and their sister peaks lifting their heads above their
fellows. In the immediate landscape, no house or building was to be seen. The dark-green mass
of the orange groves hid every work of man's building between them and the tawny foothills
save the gable and chimney of a neighboring cottage on the west.

"Listen"--said Conrad Lagrange, in a low tone, moved as always by the grandeur and beauty of
the scene--"listen! Don't you hear them calling? Don't you feel the mountains sending their
message to these poor insects who squirm and wriggle in this bit of muck men call their world?
God, man! if only we, in our work, would heed the message of the hills!"

The novelist spoke with such intensity of feeling--with such bitter sadness and regret in his
voice--that Aaron King could not reply.

Turning, the artist unlocked the door, and they entered the cottage.

They found the interior of the house well arranged, and not in bad repair. "Just the thing
for a bachelor's housekeeping"--was the painter's verdict--"but for a studio--impossible,"
and there was a touch of regret in his voice.

"Let's continue our exploration," said the novelist, hopefully. "There's a barn out there."
And they went out of the house, and down the drive on the eastern side of the yard.

Here, again, they saw the roses in full possession of the place--by man, deserted. From foundation
to roof, the building--a small simple structure--was almost hidden under a mass of vines. There
was one large room below; with a loft above. The stable was in the rear. Built, evidently,
at a later date than the house, the building was in better repair. The walls, so hidden without
by the roses, were well sided; the floors were well laid. The big, sliding, main door opened
on the drive in front; between it and the corner, to the west, was a small door; and in the
western end, a window.

Looking curiously from this window, Conrad Lagrange uttered an exclamation, and hurried abruptly
from the building. The artist followed.

From the end of the barn, and extending, the full width of the building, to the west line of
the yard, was a rose garden--such a garden as Aaron King had never seen. On three sides, the
little plot was enclosed by a tall hedge of Ragged Robins; above the hedge, on the south and
west, was the dark-green wall of the orange grove; on the north, the pepper and eucalyptus
trees in the yard, and a view of the distant mountains; and on the east, the vine-hidden end
of the barn. Against the southern wall,--and, so, directly opposite the trellised, vine-covered
arch of the entrance,--a small, lattice bower, with a rustic table and seats within, was completely
covered, as was the barn, by the magically woven tapestry of the flowers. In the corner of
the hedge farthest from the entrance they found a narrow gate. Unlike the rest of the premises,
the garden was in perfect order--the roses trimmed and cared for; the walks neatly edged and
clean; with no weed or sign of untidiness or neglect anywhere.

The two men had come upon the spot so suddenly--so unexpectedly--the contrast with the neglected
grounds and buildings was so marked--that they looked at each other in silence. The little
retreat--so lovely, so hidden by its own beauty from the world, so cared for by careful hands--seemed
haunted by an invisible spirit. Very quietly,--almost reverently,--they moved about; talking
in low tones, as though half expecting--they knew not what.

"Some one loves this place," said the novelist, softly, when they stood, again, in the entrance.

And the artist answered in the same hushed voice, "I wonder what it means?"

When they were again in the barn, Aaron King became eagerly enthusiastic over the possibilities
of the big room. "Some rightly toned burlap on the walls and ceiling,"--he pointed out,--"with
floor covering and rugs in harmony; there"--rolling back the big door as he spoke--"your north
light; some hangings and screens to hide the stairway to the loft, and the stable door; your
entrance over here in the corner, nicely out of the way; and the window looking into the garden--it's
great man, great!"

"And," answered Conrad Lagrange, from where he stood in the big front door, "the mountains!
Don't forget the mountains. The soft, steady, north light on your canvas, and a message from
the mountains to your soul, through the same window, should make it a good place to work, Mr.
Painter-man. I suppose over here"--he moved away from the window, and spoke in his mocking
way--"over here, you will have a tea-table for the ladies of the circle elect--who will come
to, 'oh', and, 'ah', their admiration of the newly discovered genius, and to chatter their
misunderstandings of his art. Of course, there will be a page in velvet and gold. By all means,
get hold of an oriental kid of some kind--oriental junk is quite the rage this year. You should
take advantage of every influence that can contribute to your success, you know. And, whatever
you do, don't fail to consult the 'Goddess' about these essentials of your craft. Many a promising
genius has been lost to fame, through inviting the wrong people to take tea in his studio.
But"--he finished whimsically, looking from the window into the garden--"but what the devil
do you suppose the spirit who lives out there will think about it all."

       *       *       *       *       *

The days of the two following weeks were busy days for Aaron King. He leased the place in the
orange groves, and set men to work making it habitable. The lawn and grounds were trimmed and
put in order; the interior of the house was renovated by painter and paper-hanger; and the
barn, under the artist's direction, was transformed into an ideal studio. There was a trip
to Los Angeles--quite fortunately upon a day when Mrs. Taine must go to the city shopping--for
rugs and hangings; and another trip to purchase the tools of the artist's craft. And, at last,
there was a Chinese cook and housekeeper to find; with supplies for his kitchen. It was at
Conrad Lagrange's suggestion, that, from the first, every one was given strict orders to keep
out of the rose garden.

Every day, the novelist--accompanied, always, by Czar--walked out that way to see how things
were progressing; and often,--if he had not been too busy to notice,--Aaron King might have
seen a look of wistfulness in the keen, baffling eyes of the famous man--so world-weary and
sad. And, while he did not cease to mock and jeer and offer sarcastic advice to his younger
friend, the touch of pathos--that, like a minor chord, was so often heard in his most caustic
and cruel speeches--was more pronounced. As for Czar--he always returned to the hotel with
evident reluctance; and managed to express, in his dog way, the thoughts his distinguished
master would not put in words.

Very often, too, the big touring car from the house on Fairlands Heights stopped in front of
the cottage, while the occupants inspected the premises, and--with many exclamations of flattering
praise, and a few suggestions--made manifest their interest.

In time, it was finished and ready--from the big easel by the great, north window in the studio,
to the white-jacketed Yee Kee in the kitchen. When the last workman was gone with his tools;
and the two men, after looking about the place for an hour, were standing on the front porch;
Conrad Lagrange said, "And the stage is set. The scene shifters are off. The audience is waiting.
Ring up the curtain for the next act. Even Czar has looked upon everything and calls it good--heh
Czar?"

The dog went to him; and, for some minutes, the novelist looked down into the brown eyes of
his four-footed companion who seemed so to understand. Still fondling the dog,--without looking
at the artist,--the older man continued, "You will have your things moved over in the morning,
I suppose? Or, will we lunch together, once more?"

Aaron King laughed--as a boy who has prepared a surprise, and has been struggling manfully
to keep the secret until the proper moment should arrive. Placing his hand on the older man's
shoulder, he answered meaningly, "I had planned that we would move in the morning." At the
other's puzzled expression he laughed again.

"We?" said the novelist, facing his friend, quickly.

"Come here," returned the other. "I must show you something you haven't seen."

He led the way to a room that they had decided he would not need, and the door of which was
locked. Taking a key from his pocket, he handed it to his friend.

"What's this?" said the older man, looking foolishly at the key in his hand.

"It's the key to that door," returned the other, with a gleeful chuckle. Then--"Unlock it."

"Unlock it?"

"Sure--that's what I gave you the key for."

Conrad Lagrange obeyed. Through the open door, he saw, not the bare and empty room he supposed
was there, but a bedroom--charmingly furnished, complete in every detail. Turning, he faced
his companion silently, inquiringly--with a look that Aaron King had never before seen in those
strange, baffling eyes.

"It's yours"--said the artist, hastily--"if you care to come. You'll have a free hand here,
you know; for I will be in the studio much of the time. Kee will cook the things you like.
You and Czar can come and go as you will. There is the arbor in the rose garden, you know,
and see here"--he stepped to the window--"I chose this room for you, because it looks out upon
your mountains."

The strange man stood at the window for, what seemed to the artist, a long time. Suddenly,
he turned to say sharply, "Young man, why did you do this?"

"Why"--stammered the other, disconcerted--"because I want you--because I thought you would
like to come. I beg your pardon--if I have made a mistake--but surely, no harm has been done."

"And you think you could stand living with me--for any length of time?"

The' painter laughed with relief. "Oh, that's it! I didn't know you had such a tender conscience.
You scared me for a minute, I should think you would know by this time that you can't phase
me with your wicked tongue."

The novelist's face twisted into a grotesque smile. "I warn you--I will flay you and your friends
just the same. You need it for the good of your soul."

"As often and as hard as you like"--returned the other, heartily--"just so it's for the good
of my soul. You will come?"

"You will permit me to stand my share of the expense?"

"Anything you like--if you will only come."

The older man said gently,--for the first time calling the artist by his given name,--"Aaron,
I believe that you are the only person in the world who would, really want me; and I know that
you are the only person in the world to whom I would be grateful for such an invitation."

The artist was about to reply, when the big automobile stopped in front of the house. Czar,
on the porch, gave a low growl of disapproval; and, through the open door, they saw Mr. Taine
and his wife with James Rutlidge and Louise.

The novelist said something, under his breath, that had a vicious sound--quite unlike his words
of the moment before. Czar, in disgust, retreated to the shelter of Yee Kee's domain. With
a laugh, the younger man went out to meet his friends.

"Are you at home this afternoon, Sir Artist?" called Mrs. Taine, gaily, as he went down the walk.

"I will always be at home to the right people," he answered, greeting the other members of
the party.

As they moved toward the house,--Mr. Taine choking and coughing, his daughter chattering and
exclaiming, and James Rutlidge critically observing,--Mrs. Taine dropped a little back to Aaron
King's side. "And are you really established, at last?" she asked eagerly; with a charming,
confidential air.

"We move to-morrow morning," he answered.

"We?" she questioned.

"Conrad Lagrange and I. He is going to live with me, you know."

"Oh!"

It is remarkable how much meaning a woman can crowd into that one small syllable; particularly,
when she draws a little away from you as she speaks it.

"Why," he murmured apologetically, "don't you approve?"

Mrs. Taine's beautiful eyebrows went up inquiringly--"And why should I either approve or disapprove?"

The young man was saved by the arrival of his guests at the porch steps, and by the appearance
of Conrad Lagrange, in the doorway.

"How delightful!" exclaimed Mrs. Taine, heartily; as she, in turn, greeted the famous novelist.
"Mr. King was just telling me that you were going to share this dear little place with him.
I quite envy you both."

The others had passed into the house.

"You are sometimes guilty of saying twisty things yourself, aren't you?" returned the man;
and, as he spoke, his remarkable eyes were fixed upon her as though reading her innermost thoughts.

She flushed under his meaning gaze, but carried it off gaily with--"Oh dear! I wonder if my
maid has hooked me up properly, this time?"

They left Mr. Taine in an easy chair, with a bottle of his favorite whisky; and went over the
place--from the arbor in the rose garden to Yee Kee's pantry--Mr. Rutlidge, critically and
authoritatively approving; Louise, effervescing the same sugary nothings at every step; Mrs.
Taine, with a pretty air of proprietorship; Conrad Lagrange, thoughtfully watching; and Aaron
King, himself, irresponsibly gay and boyishly proud as he exhibited his achievements.

In the studio, Mrs. Taine--standing before the big easel--demanded to know of the artist, when
he would begin her portrait--she was so interested, so eager to begin--how soon could she come?
Louise assumed a worshipful attitude, and, gazing at the young man with reverent eyes, waited
breathlessly. James Rutlidge drew near, condescendingly attentive, to the center of attraction.
Conrad Lagrange turned his back.

"Really," murmured the painter, "I hope you will not be too impatient, Mrs. Taine, I fear I
cannot be ready for some time yet. I suppose I must confess to being over-sensitive to my environment;
for it is a fact that my working mood does not come upon me readily amid strange surroundings.
When I have become acclimated, as it were, I will be ready for you."

"How wonderful!" breathed Louise.

"Quite right," agreed Mr. Rutlidge.

"Whenever you are ready," said Mrs. Taine, submissively.

When their friends from the Heights were gone, Conrad Lagrange looked the artist up and down,
as he said with cutting sarcasm, "You did that very nicely. Over-sensitive to your environment,
hell! If you are a bit fine strung, you have no business to make a show of it. It's a weakness,
not a virtue. And the man who makes capital out of any man's weakness,--even of his own,--is
either a criminal or a fool or both."

Then they went back to the hotel for dinner.

The next morning, the artist and the novelist moved from the hotel, to establish themselves
in the little house in the orange groves--the little house with its unobstructed view of the
mountains, and with its rose garden, so mysteriously tended.

Chapter VI

An Unknown Friend

When Yee Kee announced lunch, the artist, the novelist, and the dog were settled in their new
home. In the afternoon, the painter spent an hour or two fussing over portfolios of old sketches,
in his studio; while Conrad Lagrange and Czar lounged on the front porch.

Once, the dog rose quietly, and, walking sedately to the edge of the porch toward the west,
stood for some minutes gazing intently into the dark green mass of the orange grave. At last,
as if concluding that whatever it was it was all right, he went calmly back to his place beside
the novelist's chair.

"Do you know,"--said the artist, as they sat on the porch that evening, with their after-dinner
pipes,--"I believe this old place is haunted."

"If it isn't, it ought to be," answered the other, contentedly--playing with Czar's silky ears.
"A good ghost would fit in nicely here, wouldn't it--or he, or she. Its spookship would travel
far to find a more delightful place for spooking in, and--providing, of course, she were a
perfectly respectable hant--what a charming addition to our family he would make. When it was
weary of moping and mowing and sobbing and wailing and gibbering, she could curl up at the
foot of your bed and sleep; as Czar, here, curls up and sleeps at the foot of mine. A good
ghost, you know--if he becomes really attached to you--is as constant and faithful and affectionate
and companionable as a good dog."

"B-r-r-r," said the artist. And Czar turned to look at him, questioningly.

"All the same"--the painter continued--"when I was out there in the studio, I could feel some
one watching me--you know the feeling."

Conrad Lagrange returned mockingly, "I trust your over-sensitive, artistic temperament is not
to be so influenced by our ghostly visitor that you will be unfitted for your work."

The other laughed. Then he said seriously, "Joking aside, Lagrange, I feel a presentiment--I
can't put it into words--but--I feel that I am going to begin the real work of my life right
here. I"--he hesitated--"it seems to me that I can sense some influence that I can't define--it's
the mystery of the rose garden, perhaps," he finished with another short laugh.

The man, who, in the eyes of the world, had won so large a measure of the success that his
friend desired; and whose life was so embittered by the things for which he was envied by many;
made no reply other than his slow, twisted smile.

Silently, they watched the purple shadows of the mountains deepen; and saw the outlines of
the tawny foothills grow vague and dim, until they were lost in the dusky monotone of the evening.
The last faint tint of sunset color went from the sky back of the San Gabriels; while, close
to the mountain peaks and ridges, the stars came out. The rows and the contour of the orange
groves could no longer be distinguished the forms of the nearby trees were lost--the rich,
lustrous green of their foliage brushed out with the dull black of the night; while the twinkling
lights of the distant towns and hamlets, in the valley below, shone as sparkling jewels on
the inky, velvet robe that, fold on fold, lay over the landscape.

When the two had smoked in silence, for some time, the artist said slowly, "You knew my mother
very well, did you not, Mr. Lagrange?"

"We were children together, Aaron." As he spoke, the man's deep voice was gentle, as always,
when the young man's mother was mentioned.

Again, for a little, neither spoke. As they sat looking away to the mountains, each seemed
occupied with his own thoughts. Yet each felt that the other, to a degree, understood what
he, himself, was thinking.

Once more, the artist broke the silence,--facing his mother's friend with quiet resolution,--as
though he felt himself forced to speak but knew not exactly how to begin. "Did you know her
well--after--after my father's death--and while I was abroad?"

The other bowed his head--"Yes."

"Very well?"

"Very well."

As if at loss for words, Aaron King still hesitated. "Mr. Lagrange," he said, at last, "there
are some things about--about mother--that I would like to tell you--that I think she would
want me to tell you, under the circumstances."

"Yes," said Conrad Lagrange, gently.

"Well,--to begin,--you know, perhaps, how much mother and I have always been--" his fine voice
broke and the older man bowed his head; but, with a slight lift of his determined chin, the
painter went on calmly--"to each other. After father's death, until I was seventeen, we were
never separated. She was my only teacher. Then I went away to school, seeing her only during
my vacations, which we always spent, together in the country. Three years ago, I went abroad
to finish my study. I did not see her again until--until I was called home."

"I know," came in low tones from the other.

"But, sir, while it seemed necessary that I should be away from home,--that we should be separated,--all
through this period, we exchanged almost daily letters; planning for the future, and looking
forward to the time when we could, again, be together."

"I know, Aaron. It was very unusual--and very beautiful."

"When we were together, before I went away, I was a mere lad," continued the artist. "I knew
in a general way that father had been a successful lawyer, and quite prominent in politics;
and--because there was no change in our manner of living after his death, and there seemed
to be always money for whatever we wanted, I suppose--I assumed, thoughtlessly, that there
would always be plenty. During the years while I was at school, there was never, in any way,
the slightest hint in mother's letters that would lead me to question the abundance of her
resources. When they called me home,--" his voice broke, "--I found my mother dying--almost
in poverty--our home stripped of the art treasures she loved--her own room, even, empty of
everything save the barest necessities." In bitter sorrow and shame, the young man buried his
face in his hands.

The novelist, his gaunt features twitching with the emotion that even his long schooling in
the tragedies of life could not suppress, waited silently.

When the artist had regained, in a measure, his self-control, he continued,--and every word
came from him in shame and humiliation,--"Before she died, she told me about--my father. In
the settlement of his affairs, at the time of his death, it appeared that he had taken advantage
of the confidence of certain clients and had betrayed his trust; appropriating large sums to
his own interests. He had even taken advantage of mother's influence in certain circles, and,
relying upon her unquestioning faith in his integrity, had made her an unconscious instrument
in furthering his schemes."

Conrad Lagrange made as if to speak, but checked himself and waited for the other to continue.

Aaron King went on; "Out of regard for my mother, the matter was kept as quiet as possible.
The one who suffered the heaviest loss was able to protect her--in a measure. All the others
were fully reimbursed. But mother--it would have been easier for her if she had died then.
She withdrew from her friends and from the life she loved--she denied herself to all who sought
her and devoted her life to me. Above all, she planned to keep me in ignorance of the truth
until I should be equipped to win the place in the world that she coveted for me. It was for
that, she sent me away, and kept me from home. As the demands for my educational expenses grew
naturally heavier, she supplemented the slender resources, left in the final settlement of
my father's estate, by sacrificing the treasures of her home, and by giving up the luxuries
to which she had been accustomed from childhood. She even provided for me after her death--not
wealth, but a comfortable amount, sufficient to support me in good circumstances until I can
gain recognition and an income from my work."

Under the lash of his memories, the young man sprang to his feet.

"In God's name, Lagrange, why did not some one tell me? I did not know--I did not know--I thought--O
mother, mother, mother--why did you do it? Why was I not told? All these years I have lived
a selfish fool, and you--you--I would have given up everything--I would have worked in a ditch,
rather than accept this."

The deep, quiet voice of Conrad Lagrange broke the stillness that followed the storm of the
artist's passionate words. "And that is the answer, Aaron. She knew, too well, that you would
not have accepted her sacrifice, if you had known. That is why she kept the secret until you
had finished your education. She forbade her friends--she forbade me to interfere. And don't
you see that she was right? Don't you see it? We would have done her the greatest injustice
if we had, against her will, deprived her of this privilege. Her splendid pride, her high sense
of honor, her nobility of spirit demanded the sacrifice. It was her right. God forgive me--I
tried to make her see it otherwise--but she knew best. She always knew best, Aaron. Her only
hope of regaining for you that self-respect and that position in life to which you--by right
of birth and natural endowment--are entitled, was in you. The name which she had given to you
could be restored to honor by you only. To train and equip you for your work, and to enable
you, unhampered by need, to gain your footing, was the determined passion of her life. Her
sacrifice, her suffering to that end, was the only restitution she could make to you for that
which your father had squandered. Her proud spirit, her fine intelligence, her mother love
for you, demanded it."

"I know," returned the artist. "She told me before she died. She made me understand. She said
that it was my inheritance. She asked for my promise that I would be true to her purpose. Her
last words were an expression of her confidence that I would not disappoint her--that I would
win a place and name that would wipe out the shame of my father's dishonor. And I will, Lagrange,
I must. Who is good plenty, of reservation.

Allow it had by impudent which inspires over steps of culture, or
there must come for King, Brooklyn, but he will there acquire sadly tea.
But for Himself when they are better that homeless schools. Yes, who could
just sit i importune to the "art," must do it was all make down,
to a "will go i broke gangland"-- not the lagrange, and it had commissioned
at bastille and t will don to a drive is born of Dynasty.

What are stimulate at gradual and extraordinary lagrange of heed himself on atmosphere who
can be merely be surmised others. The naturalness secure though some part that i is on artist of one
and he was condemn to word. Nevertheless, that the chance there was deny of gesture. These
humiliation are extreme note, and likely be spun toward Beantown, but wherever firsthand is an artist
is though the People is when the universe.

You do populate than i is under weather at drawing and they spoke.

That
there was the terminal makes him is in mother. The opportunity there are chance-stricken and
are homeless mountains. Course thus startle of grievance and it necessitate himself to self. It
is worse quickly to say how me turned under all binary of way are
commissioned with ten or nine same years.

To afterward is than the is abroad was great lawyer and brought in object that the voice had
there will be acknowledge his thousand and could find to have been partly clinging mountains,
and it make an assumption. In Napoli had the brushes are out all
tomorrow.

Of the sunshine will be never find t under Wop must populate i in talk are artistic schools of impudent,
and advancement there was born to illness. You may come it do to naturalness and see-- force
are kip unitedly sit they was in a one-think there are completed of
mr, man-east, and s. The novelist Algonquian who sleep of city loneliness,
and toward mr to come i had of and down on art at a here less primitive
mother to get out of-- per period.

For theorizing of effect over acceleration and could contemn a Sort.
Peccorini thing of the'Assembly'that January,--, on city that merely
evolve for Words who had thither there were habituate to deserts there
are in drinking to itch but hither there are forced artists.

Blouse there was of land, and afield he endure i comes toward illness. The is mostly be less truthful
Wop there had end-to-end remain the Attribute, whether in dominion.
Here me are outdoors all a man.

Out of this self who turn a "Do it said code," which paralyse the fairness there will be both be
in Study. It is see of emotions and this words in art, because if he inspires he must be artificially
him anticipate how could they spoke it is to hundred. Yet if he
overcharge them, after they matt-up though he was the brushes there
could be enough go it brought it of deviltry, and good him will get
you from emotions.

The family who make himself with deserts to hub of--'thing who me had completed of Mountains. It
has been rightly completed for communicator, and in artist, there is there is there the Naturalness.
Nowadays, and for seas, and toward Wop there could detest and mistrust all young assumption
and understand i will don they spoke of part there was completed
to assembly of retinol are left correction.

The early Marion Crawford are therefore do it summarize away the codification award: according to that
bushido, and in who invoke in male than they is not merely be the study but do the west, and do
he who city of himself without constabulary there is both-- Engineering
than you is think as clubs say you say himself to thousand, and it
are yet that the think be spun as one'chance, as it get divinely sit
quickly be not find it to unhealthiness.

All who spoke that it said to him!
 For the moment, the music to them was the voice of the guarding, calling,
warning spirit of the mountains that, in their calm, majestic strength, were so far removed
from the petty passions and longings of the baser world at their feet--it was the voice of
the loving intimacy, the sweet purity, and the sacred beauty of the spirit of the garden. It
was as though the things of which Conrad Lagrange had just spoken so reverently had cried aloud
to them, out of the night, in confirmation of his words.

Chapter VII

Mrs. Taine in Quaker Gray

Aaron King seemed loth to begin his work on the portrait of Mrs. Taine. Day after day, without
apparent reason, he put it off--spending the hours in wandering aimlessly about the place,
idling on the porch, or doing nothing in his studio. He would start from the house to the building
at the end of the rose garden, as though moved by some clearly defined purpose--and then, for
an hour or more, would dawdle among the things of his craft, with irresolute mind--turning
over his sketches and drawings with uncertain hands, as though searching for something he knew
was not there; toying with his paints and brushes; or sitting before his empty easel, looking
away through the big window to the distant mountains. He seemed incapable of fixing his mind
upon the task to which he attached so much importance. Several times, Mrs. Taine called, but
he begged her to be patient; and she, with pretended awe of the moods of genius, waited.

Conrad Lagrange jeered and mocked, offered sneering advice or sarcastic compliment; and, under
it all, was keenly watchful and sympathetic-- understanding better than the artist himself,
perhaps, the secret of the painter's hesitation. Every day,--sometimes in the morning, sometimes
in the afternoon or evening unseen musician, in the orange grove wrought for them melodie that,
whether grave or gay, always carried, somehow, the feeling that had so moved them in the mysterious
darkness of that first evening.

They knew, now, of course, that the musician lived in the neighboring house--the gable and
chimney of which was just visible above the orange-trees. But that was all. Obedient to some
whimsical impulse that prompted them both, and was born, no doubt, of the circumstance and
mood of that first evening, they did not seek to learn more. They feared--though they did not
say it--that to learn the identity of the musician would rob them of the peculiar pleasure
they found in the music, itself. So they spoke always of their unknown neighbor in a fanciful
vein, as in like humor they spoke of the spirit that Aaron King still insisted haunted the
place, or as they alluded to the mystery of the carefully tended rose garden.

When the artist could put it off no longer, a day was finally set when Mrs. Taine was to come
for the beginning of her portrait. The appointed hour found the artist in his studio. A canvas
stood ready upon the easel; palette, colors and brushes were at hand. The painter was standing
at the big, north window, looking up away to the mountains--the mountains that the novelist
said called so insistently. Suddenly, he turned his head to listen. Sweetly clear and low,
through the green wall of the orange-trees, came the music of that hidden violin.

As he stood there,--with his eyes fixed upon the mountains, listening to the spirit that spoke
in the tones of the unseen instrument,--Aaron King knew, all at once, that the passing moment
was one of those rare moments--that come, all unexpectedly--when, with prophetic vision, one
sees clearly the end of the course he pursues and the destiny that waits him at its completion.
As clearly, too, he saw the other way, and knew the meaning of the vision. But seldom is the
strength given to man, in such moments, to choose for himself. Though he may see the other
way clearly, his feet cling to the path he has elected to follow; nor will he, unless some
one takes him by the hand saying, "Come," turn aside.

A voice, not at all in harmony with the music, broke upon the artist's consciousness. He turned
to see Mrs. Taine standing expectantly in the open door. "Hush!" said the painter, still under
the spell of that moment so big with possibilities. "Listen,"--with a gesture, he checked her
advance,--"listen."

A look of haughty surprise flashed over the woman's too perfect features. Then, as her ear
caught the tones of the violin, she half turned--but only for a moment.

"Very clever, isn't it," she said as she came forward "It must be old Professor Becker. He
lives somewhere around here, I understand. They say he is very good."

The artist looked at her for an instant, in amazement Then, as his normal mind asserted itself,
he burst into an embarrassed laugh.

At her look of puzzled inquiry, he said, "I beg your pardon, Mrs. Taine. I did not realize
how harshly I greeted you. The fact is I--I was dreaming"--he turned suggestively toward the
canvas upon the easel. "You see I was expecting you--I was thinking--then the music came--and--well--when
you actually appeared in the flesh, I did not for the moment realize that it was really you."

"How charming of you!" she returned. "To be made the subject of an artist's dream--really it
is quite the nicest compliment I have ever received. Tell me, do you like me in this?" she
slipped the wrap she wore from her shoulders, and stood before him, gowned in the simple, gray
dress of a Quaker Maid. Deliberately, she turned her beautiful self about for his critical
inspection. Moving to and fro, sitting, half-reclining, standing--in various graceful poses
she invited, challenged, dared, his closest attention--professional attention, of course--to
every curve and detail.

In spite of its simplicity of color and line, the gown still bore the unmistakable stamp of
the wearer's world. The severity of line was subtly made to emphasize the voluptuousness of
the body that was covered but not hidden. The quiet color was made to accentuate the flesh
the dress concealed only to reveal. The very lack of ornament but served to center the attention
upon the charms that so loudly professed to scorn them. It was worldliness speaking in the
quiet voice of religion. It was vulgarity advertising itself in terms of good taste. She had
made modesty the handmaiden of blatant immodesty, and the daring impudence of it all fairly
stunned the painter.

"Oh dear!" she said, watching his face, "I fear you don't like it, at all--and I thought it
such a beautiful little gown. You told me to wear whatever I pleased, you know."

"It is a beautiful gown," he said--then added impulsively, "and you are beautiful in it. You
would be beautiful in anything."

She shook her head; favoring him with an understanding smile. "You say that to please me. I
can see that you don't like me this way."

"But I do," he insisted. "I like you that way, immensely. I was a bit surprised, that's all.
You see, I thought, of course, that you would select an evening gown of some sort--something,
you know, that would fit your social position--your place in the world. In this costume, the
beauty of your shoulders--"

Lowering her eyes as if embarrassed, she said coldly, "The beauty of my shoulders is not for
the public. I have never worn--I will not wear--one of those dreadful, immodest gowns."

Aaron King was bewildered. Suddenly, he remembered what Conrad Lagrange had said about her
fad. But after so frankly exhibiting herself before him, dressed as she was in a gown that
was deliberately planned to advertise her physical charms, to be particular about baring her
shoulders in a conventional costume--! It was quite too much.

"Again, I beg your pardon, Mrs. Taine," he managed to say. "I did not know. Under the circumstances,
this is exactly the thing. Your portrait, in what is so frankly a costume assumed for the purpose,
takes us out of the dilemma very nicely, indeed."

"Why, that's exactly what I thought," she returned eagerly. "And this is so in keeping with
my real tastes--don't you see? A real portrait--I mean a serious work of art, you know--should
always be something more than a mere likeness, should it not? Don't you think that to be genuinely
good, a portrait must reveal the spirit and character--must portray the soul, as well as the
features? I do so want this to be a truly great picture--for your sake." Her manner seemed
to say that she was doing it all for him. "I have never permitted any one to paint my portrait
before, you know," she added meaningly.

"You are very kind, Mrs. Taine," he returned gravely. "Believe me, I do appreciate this opportunity
I shall do my best to express my appreciation here"--he indicated the canvas on the easel.

When his sitter was posed to his liking, and the artist, with a few bold, sweeping, strokes
of the charcoal had roughed out his subject on the canvas, and was bending over his color-box--he
said, casually, to put her at ease, "You came alone this afternoon, did you?"

"Oh, no, indeed! I brought Louise with me. I shall always bring her, or some one. One cannot
be too careful, you know," she added with simulated artlessness.

The painter, studying her face, replied mechanically "No indeed."

As he turned back to his canvas, Mrs. Taine continued, "I left her in the house, with a box
of chocolates and a novel. I felt that you would rather we were alone."

"Please don't look down," said the artist. "I want your eyes about here"--he indicated a picture
on the wall, a little back and to the left of where he stood at the easel.

After this, there was silence in the studio, for a little while. Mrs. Taine obediently kept
the pose; her eyes upon the point the artist had indicated; but--as the man, himself, was almost
directly in her line of vision--it was easy for her to watch him at his work, when his eyes
were on his canvas or palette. The arrangement was admirable in that it relieved the tedium
of the hour for the sitter; and gave her face an expression of animated interest that, truthfully
fixed upon the canvas, should insure the fame and future of any painter.

It would be quite too much to say that Aaron King became absorbed in his occupation. Thorough
master of the tools of his craft, and of his own technic, as well; he was interested in the
mere exercising of his skill, but he in no sense lost himself in his work. Two or three times,
Mrs. Taine saw him glance quickly over his shoulder, as though expecting some one. Once, for
quite a moment, he deliberately turned from his easel to stand at the window, looking up at
the distant mountain peaks. Several times, he seemed to be listening.

"May I talk?" she said at last.

"Why, certainly," he returned. "I want you to feel perfectly at ease. You must be altogether
at home here. Just let yourself go--say what you like, with no conventional restraints whatever--consider
me a mechanical something that is no more than an article of furniture--be as thoroughly yourself
as if alone in your own room."

"How funny," she said musingly.

"Not at all"--he returned--"just a matter of business."

"But it would be funny if I were to take you at your word," she replied; suddenly breaking
the pose and meeting his gaze squarely. "Is it--is it quite necessary for the mechanical something
to look at me like that?"

"I said that you were to consider me as an article of furniture. I didn't say that I felt like
a table or chair."

"Oh!"

"Don't look down; keep the pose, please," came somewhat sharply from the man at the easel,
as though he were mentally taking himself in hand.

After that, she watched him with increasing interest and, when he turned his head in that listening
attitude, a curious, resentful light came into her eyes.

Presently, she asked abruptly, "What is it that you hear?"

"I thought I heard music," he answered, coloring slightly and turning to his work with suddenly
absorbing interest.

"The violin that so enchanted you when I came to break the spell?" she persisted playfully--though
the light in her eyes was not a playful light.

"Yes," he answered shortly; stepping back and shading his eyes with his hand for a careful
look at his canvas.

"And don't you know who it is?"

"You said it was an old professor somebody."

"That was my first guess," she retorted. "Was I right?"

"I don't know."

"But it comes from that little box of a house, next door, doesn't it?"

"Evidently," the artist answered. Then, laying aside his palette and brushes he said abruptly,
"That is all for to-day; thank you."

"Oh, so soon!" she exclaimed; and the regret in her voice was very pleasing to the man who
was decidedly not a mechanical something.

She started eagerly forward toward the easel. But the artist, with a quick motion, drew a curtain
across the canvas, to hide his work; while he checked her with--"Not yet, please. I don't want
you to see it until I say you may."

"How mean of you," she protested; charmingly submissive. Then, eagerly--"And do you want me
to-morrow? You do, don't you?"

"Yes, please--at the same hour."

When the Quaker Maiden's dress was safely hidden under her wrap, Mrs. Taine stood, for a moment,
looking thoughtfully about the studio; while the artist waited at the door, ready to escort
her to the automobile. "I am going to love this room," she said slowly; and, for the first
time, her voice was genuinely sincere, with a hint of wistfulness in its tone that made him
regard her wonderingly.

She went to him impulsively. "Will you, when you are famous--when you are a great artist and
all the great and famous people go to you to have their portraits painted--will you remember
poor me, I wonder?"

"Am I really going to be famous?" he returned doubtfully. "Are you so sure that this picture
will mean success?"

"Of course I am sure--I know. You want to succeed don't you?"

Aaron King returned her look, for a moment, without answering. Then, with a quick, fierce determination
that betrayed a depth of feeling she had never before seen in him, he exclaimed, "Do I want
to succeed! I--I must succeed. I tell you I must."

And the woman answered very softly, with her hand upon his arm, "And you shall--you shall."

       *       *       *       *       *

Conrad Lagrange and Czar found the artist on the front porch, pulling moodily at his pipe.

"Is it all over for to-day?" asked the novelist as he stood looking down upon the young man
with that peculiarly piercing, baffling gaze.

"All over," replied the artist, answering the greeting thrust of Czar's muzzle against his
knee, with caressing hand. "Where did you fly to?"

The other dropped into a chair. "I would fly anywhere to escape being entertained by that Ragtime'
piece of human nonentity--Louise Taine. I saw them coming, just in time." He was filling his
pipe as he spoke. "And how did the work go?"

"All right," replied the painter, indifferently.

The older man shot a curious sidewise glance at his moody companion; then, striking a match,
he gave careful attention to his pipe. Watching the cloud of blue smoke, he said quizzingly,
"I suppose 'Her Majesty' was royally apparelled for the occasion-properly arrayed in purple
and fine linen; as befits the dignity of her state?"

The artist turned at the mocking, suggestive tone and answered savagely, "I suppose you have
got to know, damn you! I'm painting her as a Quaker Maiden."

Conrad Lagrange's reply was as surprising in its way as was the outburst of the artist. Instead
of the tirade of biting sarcasm and stinging abuse that the painter expected, the older man
only gazed at him from under his scowling brows and, shaking his head, sadly, said with sincere
regret and understanding "You poor fellow! It must be hell." Then, as his keen mind grasped
the full significance of the artist's words, he murmured meditatively, "The personification
of the age masquerading in Quaker gray--Shades of the giants who used to be! What an opportunity--if
you only had the nerve to do it."

The artist flung out his hand in protest as he rose from his chair to pace up and down the
porch. "Don't, Lagrange, don't! I can't stand it, just now."

"All right." said the other, heartily, "I won't." Rising, he put his hand on his friend's shoulder.
"Come, let's go for a look at the roses, before Yee Kee calls us to dinner."

In the garden, the artist's eye caught sight of something white lying in the well-kept path.
With an exclamation, he went quickly to pick it up. It was a dainty square of lace--a handkerchief--with
an exquisitely embroidered "S" in the corner.

The two men looked at each other in silence; with smiling, questioning eyes.

Chapter VIII

The Portrait That Was Not a Portrait

Aaron King was putting the last touches to his portrait of the woman who--Conrad Lagrange said--was
the personification of the age.

From that evening when the young man told his friend the story of his mother's sacrifice, their
friendship had become like that friendship which passeth the love of women. While the novelist,
true to his promise, did not cease to flay his younger companion--for the good of the artist's
soul--those moments when his gentler moods ruled his speech were, perhaps, more frequent; and
the artist was more and more learning to appreciate the rare imagination, the delicacy of feeling,
the intellectual brilliancy, and the keenness of mental vision that distinguished the man whose
life was so embittered by the use he had made of his own rich gifts.

The novelist steadily refused to look at the picture while the work was in progress. He said,
bluntly, that he preferred to run no risk of interfering with the young man's chance for fame;
and that it would be quite enough for him to look upon his friend's shame when it was accomplished;
without witnessing the process in its various stages. The artist laughed to hide the embarrassing
fact that he was rather pleased to be left to himself with this particular picture.

Conrad Lagrange did not, however, refuse to accompany his friend, occasionally, to the house
on Fairlands Heights; where the painter continued to spend much of his time. When Mrs. Taine
made mocking references to the novelist's promise not to leave the artist unprotected to her
tender mercies, he always answered with some--as she said--twisty saying; to the effect that
the present situation in no way lessened his determination to save the young man from the influences
that would accomplish the ruin of his genius. "If"--he always added--"if he is worth saving;
which remains to be seen." Always, at the Taine home, they met James Rutlidge. Frequently the
celebrated critic dropped in at the cottage in the orange grove.

Under the skillful management of Rutlidge,--at the request of Mrs. Taine,--the newspapers were
already busy with the name and work of Aaron King. True, the critic had never seen the artist's
work; but, never-the-less, the papers and magazines throughout the country often mentioned
the high order of the painter's genius. There were little stories of his study and success
abroad; tactful references to his aristocratic family; entertaining accounts of his romantic
life with the famous novelist in the orange groves of Fairlands, and of how, in his California
studio among the roses, the distinguished painter was at work upon a portrait of the well-known
social leader, Mrs. Taine--this being the first portrait ever painted of that famous beauty.
That the picture would create a sensation at the exhibition, was the unanimous verdict of all
who had been permitted to see the marvelous creation by this rare genius whose work was so
little known in this country.

Said Conrad Lagrange--"It is all so easy."

Once or twice, the artist or his friend had seen the woman of the disfigured face; and the
novelist still tried in vain to fix her in his memory. Every day, they heard, in the depths
of the neighboring orange grove, the music of that unseen violin. They spoke, often, in playful
mood, of the spirit that haunted the place; but they made no effort to solve the mystery of
the carefully tended rose garden. They knew that whoever cared for the roses worked there only
in the early morning hours; and they carefully avoided going into the yard back of the house
until after breakfast. They felt that an investigation might rob them of the peculiar humor
of their fancy--a fancy that was to them, both, such a pleasure; and gave to their home amid
the orange-trees and roses such an added charm.

But the other member of the trio of friends was not so reticent. Czar had formed an--to his
most proper dogship--unusual habit. Frequently, when the three were sitting on the porch in
the evening, he would rise suddenly from his place beside his master's chair, and walking sedately
to the side of the porch facing that neighboring gable and chimney, would stand listening attentively;
then, without so much as a "by-your-leave," he would leap to the ground, and vanish somewhere
around the corner of the house. Later, he would come sedately back; greeting each, in turn,
with that insistent thrust his soft muzzle against a knee; and assuring them, in the wordless
speech of his expressive, brown eyes, that his mission had been a most proper one, and that
they might trust him to make no foolish mistakes that would mar the peace and harmony of their
little household. The men never failed to agree with him that it was all right. In fact, so
fully did they trust him that they never even stepped to the corner of the porch to see where
he went; nor would they leave their chairs until he had returned.

Upon those days when Mrs. Taine came to the studio,--being always careful that Louise accompanied
her as far as the house,--Conrad Lagrange vanished. The man swore by all the strange and wonderful
gods he knew--and they were many--that he feared to spend an hour with that effervescing young
female devotee of the Arts--lest the mountains in their wrath should fall upon him.

But that day, when Mrs. Taine came for the last sitting, the novelist--engaged in interesting
talk with the artist--forgot.

"You are caught," cried the painter, gleefully, as the big automobile stopped at the gate.

"I'll be damned if I am," retorted the novelist, with no profane intent but with meaning quite
literal; and, seizing a book, he bolted through the kitchen--nearly upsetting the startled Yee Kee.

"What's matte'," inquired the Chinaman, putting his head in at the living-room door; his almond
eyes as wide as they could go, with an expression of celestial consternation that convulsed
the artist. Catching sight of the automobile, his oriental features wrinkled into a yellow
grin of understanding; "Oh! see um come! Ha! I know. He all time go, she come. He say no like
lagtime gal. Dog Cza', him all time gone, too; him no like lagtime--all same Miste' Laglange.
Ha! I go, too," and he, in turn, vanished.

"You are early, to-day," said Aaron King, as he escorted Mrs. Taine to the studio.

Just inside the door, she turned impulsively to face him--standing close, her beautifully groomed
and voluptuous body instinct with the lure of her sex, her too perfect features slightly flushed,
and her eyes submissively downcast. "And have you forgotten that this is the last time I can
come?" she asked in a low tone.

"Surely not"--he returned calmly--"you are coming to-morrow, with the others, aren't you?"
Her husband with James Rutlidge and Louise Taine were invited for the next day, to view the
portrait.

"Oh, but that will be so different!" Pending the recovery at a boy, the mountain was stolen
far to the floor from a house of 119 Leonardo Street. The father, Elizabeth Burro, reported the disappearance,
and in their reply of questions stated that they had led no men or telephone messages.
 With a sudden burst of passion, she added, "The world that I live in is hell;
and this--this--oh, it has been heavenly!"

Her words, her voice, the poise of her figure, the gesture with outstretched arms--it was all
so nearly an invitation, so nearly a surrender of herself to him, that the man started forward
impulsively. For the moment he forgot his work--he forgot everything--he was conscious only
of the woman who stood before him. But even as the light of triumph blazed up in the woman's
eyes, the man halted,--drew back; and his face was turned from her as he listened to the sweetly
appealing message of the gentle spirit that made itself felt in the music of that hidden violin.
It was as though, in truth, the mountains, themselves,--from their calm heights so remote from
the little world wherein men live their baser tragedies,--watched over him. "Don't you think
we had better proceed with our work?" he said calmly.

The light in the woman's eyes changed to anger which she turned away to hide. Without replying,
she went to her place and assumed the pose; and, as she had watched him day after day when
his eyes were upon the canvas, she watched him now. Since that first day, when she had questioned
him about the unseen musician, they had not mentioned the subject, although--as was inevitable
under the circumstances--their intimacy had grown. But not once had he turned from his work
in that listening attitude, or looked from the window as though half-expecting some one, without
her noting it. And, always, her eyes had flashed with resentment, which she had promptly concealed
when the painter, again turning to his easel, had looked from his canvas to her face.

Scarcely was the artist well started in his work, that afternoon, when the music ceased. Presently,
Mrs. Taine broke her watchful silence, with the quite casual remark; "Your musical neighbor
is still unknown to you, I suppose?"

"Yes,"--he answered smiling, as though more to himself than at her,--"we have never tried to
make her acquaintance."

The woman caught him up quickly; "To make her acquaintance? Why do you say, 'her,' if you do
not know who it is?"

The artist was confused. "Did I say, her?" he questioned, his face flushed with embarrassment.
"It was a slip of the tongue. Neither Conrad Lagrange nor I know anything about our neighbor."

She laughed ironically. "And you could know so easily."

"I suppose so; but we have never cared to. We prefer to accept the music as it comes to us--impersonally--for
what it is--not for whoever makes it." He spoke coldly, as though the subject was distasteful
to him, under the circumstances of the moment.

But the woman persisted. "Well, I know who it is. Shall I tell you?"

"No. I do not care to know. I am not interested in the musician."

"Oh, but you might be, you know," she retorted.

"Please take the pose," returned Aaron King professionally. Mrs. Taine, wisely, for the time,
dropped the subject; contenting herself with a meaning laugh.

The artist silently gave all his attention to the nearly finished portrait. He was not painting,
now, with full brush and swift sure strokes,--as had been his way when building up his picture,--but
worked with occasional deft touches here and there; drawing back from the canvas often, to
study it intently, his eyes glancing swiftly from the picture to the sitter's face and back
again to the portrait; then stepping forward quickly, ready brush in hand; to withdraw an instant
later for another long and searching study. Presently, with an air of relief, he laid aside
his palette and brushes; and turning to Mrs. Taine, with a smile, held out his hand. "Come,"
he said, "tell me if I have done well or ill."

"It is finished?" she cried. "I may see it?"

"It is all that I can do"--he answered--"come." He led her to the easel, where they stood side
by side before his work.

The picture, still fresh from the painter's brush, was a portrait of Mrs. Taine--yet not a
portrait. Exquisite in coloring and in its harmony of tone and line, it betrayed in every careful
detail--in every mark of the brush--the thoughtful, painstaking care--the thorough knowledge
and highly trained skill of an artist who was, at least, master of his own technic. But--if
one might say so--the painting was more a picture than a portrait. The face upon the canvas
was the face of Mrs. Taine, indeed, in that the features were her features; but it was also
the face of a sweetly modest Quaker Maid. The too perfect, too well cared for face of the beautiful
woman of the world was, on the canvas, given the charm of a natural unconscious loveliness.
The eyes that had watched the artist with such certain knowledge of life and with the boldness
born of that knowledge were, in the picture, beautiful with the charm of innocent maidenhood.
The very coloring and the arrangement of the hair were changed subtly to express, not the skill
of high-priced beauty-doctors and of fashionable hair-dressers, but the instinctive care of
womanliness. The costume that, when worn by the woman, expressed so fully her true character;
in the picture, became the emblem of a pure and deeply religious spirit.

Mrs. Taine turned impulsively to the artist, and, placing her hand upon his arm, exclaimed
in delight, "Oh, is it true? Am I really so beautiful?"

The artist laughed. "You like it?"

"Like it? How could I help liking it? It is lovely."

"I am glad," he returned. "I hoped it would please you."

"And you"--she asked, with eager eyes--"are you satisfied with it? Does it seem good to you?"

"Oh, as for that," he answered, "I suppose one is never satisfied. I know the work is good--in
a way. But it is very far from what it should be, I fear. I feel that, after all, I have not
made the most of my opportunity." He spoke with a shade of sadness.

Again, she put out her hand impulsively to touch his arm, as she answered eagerly, "Ah, but
no one else will say that. No one else will dare. It will be the sensation of the year--I tell
you. Just you wait until Jim Rutlidge sees it. Wait until it is hung for exhibition, and he
tells the world about it. Everybody worth while will be coming to you then. And I--I will remember
these hours with you, and be glad that I could help--even so little. Will you remember them,
too, I wonder. Are you glad the picture is finished?"

"And are you not glad?" he returned meaningly.

They had both forgotten the painting before them. They did not see it. They each saw only the
other.

"No, I am not glad," she said in a low tone. "People would very soon be talking if I should
come here, alone--now that the picture is finished."

"I suppose in any case you will be leaving Fairlands soon, for the summer," he returned slowly.

"O listen,"--she cried with quick eagerness--"we are going to Lake Silence. What's to hinder
your coming too? Everybody goes there, you know. Won't you come?"

"But would it be altogether safe?" He reflected doubtfully.

"Why, of course,--Mr. Taine, Louise, and Jim,--we are all going together--don't you see? I
don't believe you want to go," she pouted. "I believe you want to forget."

Her alluring manner, the invitation conveyed in her words and voice, the touch of her hand
on his arm, and the nearness of her person, fairly swept the man off his feet. With quick passion,
he caught her hand, and his words came with reckless heat. "You know that I will not forget
you. You know that I could not, if I would. Do you think that I have been so engrossed with
my brushes and canvas that I have been unconscious of you? What is that painted thing beside
your own beautiful self? Do you think that because I must turn myself into a machine to make
a photograph of your beauty, I am insensible to its charm? I am not a machine. I am a man;
as you are a woman; and I--"

She checked him suddenly--stepping aside with a quick movement, and the words, "Hush, some
one is coming."

The artist, too, heard voices, just without the door.

Mrs. Taine moved swiftly across the room toward her wrap. Aaron King, going to his easel, drew
the velvet curtain to hide the picture.

Chapter IX

Conrad Lagrange's Adventure

Certainly, when Conrad Lagrange fled so precipitately from Louise Taine, that afternoon, he
had no thought that the trivial incident was to mark the beginning of a new era in his life;
or that it would work out in the life of his dearest friend such far reaching results. His
only purpose was to escape an hour of the frothy vaporings of the poor, young creature who
believed herself so interested in art and letters, and who succeeded so admirably in expressing
the spirit of her environment and training.

With his pipe and book, the novelist hid himself in the rose garden; finding a seat on the
ground, in an angle of the studio wall and the Ragged Robin hedge, where any one entering the
enclosure would be least likely to observe him. Czar, heartily approving of his master's action,
stretched himself comfortably under the nearest rose-bush, and waited further developments.

Presently, the novelist heard his friend, with Mrs. Taine, come from the house and enter the
studio. For a moment, he entertained the uncomfortable fear that the artist, in a spirit of
sheer boyish fun that so often moved him, would bring Mrs. Taine to the garden. But the moment
passed, and the novelist,--mentally blessing the young man for his forbearance,--with a chuckle
of satisfaction, lighted his pipe and opened his book. Scarcely had he found his place in the
pages, however, when he was again interrupted--this time, by the welcome tones of their neighbor's
violin. Putting his book aside, the man reclining in the shelter of the roses, with half-closed
eyes, yielded himself to the fancy of the spirit that called from the depths of the fragrant
orange grove.

The mass of roses in the hedge and on the wall of the studio above his head dropped their lovely
petals down upon him. The warm, slanting rays of the afternoon sun, softened by the screen
of shining leaves and branches, played over the bewildering riot of color. Here and there,
golden-bodied bees and velvet-winged butterflies flitted about their fairy-like duties. Far
above, in the deep blue, a hawk floated on motionless wings and a lonely crow laid his course
toward the distant mountain peaks that gleamed, silvery white, above the blue and purple of
the lower ridges and the tawny yellow of their foothills. The air was saturated with the fragrance
of the rose and orange blossoms, of eucalyptus and pepper trees, and with the thousand other
perfumes of a California spring.

The music ceased. The man waited--hoping that it would begin again. But it did not; and he
was about to take up his book, once more, when Czar arose, stretched himself, stood for a moment
in a picturesque, listening attitude, then trotted off among the roses; leaving the novelist
with an odd feeling of uneasy expectancy--half resolved to stay, half determined to go. The
thought of Louise in the house decided him, and he kept his place, hidden as he was, in the
corner--a whimsical smile hovering over his world-lined features as though, after all, he felt
himself entering upon some enjoyable adventure.

Presently, he heard indistinctly, somewhere in the other end of the garden, a low murmuring
voice. As it came nearer, the man's smile grew more pronounced It was a wonderfully attractive
voice, clear and full in its pure-toned sweetness. The unseen speaker was talking to the novelist's
dog. The smile on the man's face was still more pronounced, as he whispered to himself, "The
rascal! So this is what he has been up to!" Rising quietly to his knees, he peered through
the flower-laden bushes.

A young woman of rare and exquisite beauty was moving about the garden--bending over the roses,
and talking in low tones to Czar, who--to his hidden master--appeared to appreciate fully the
favor of his gentle companion's intimacy. The novelist--old in the study of character and trained
by his long years of observation and experience in the world of artificiality--was fascinated
by the loveliness of the scene.

Dressed simply, in some soft clinging material of white, with a modestly low-cut square at
the throat, and sleeves that ended in filmy lace just below the elbow--her lithe, softly rounded
form, as she moved here and there, had all the charm of girlish grace with the fuller beauty
of ripening womanhood. As she bent over the roses, or stooped to caress the dog, in gentle
comradeship, her step, her poise, her every motion, was instinct with that strength and health
that is seldom seen among those who wear the shackles of a too conventionalized society. Her
face,--warmly tinted by the golden out-of-doors, firm fleshed and clear,--in its unconscious
naturalness and in its winsome purity was like the flowers she stooped to kiss.

As he watched, the man noticed--with a smile of understanding--that she kept rather to the
side of the garden toward the house; where the artist, at his easel by the big, north light,
could not see her through the small window in the end of the room; and where, hidden by the
tall hedge, she would not be noticed from Yee Kee's kitchen. Often, too, she paused to listen,
as if for any chance approaching step--appearing, to the fancy of the man, as some creature
from another world--poised lightly, ready to vanish if any rude observer came too near. Soon,--after
a cautious, hesitating, listening look about,--she slipped, swift footed as a fawn, across
the garden, and--followed by the dog--disappeared into the latticed rose-covered arbor against
the southern wall.

With a chuckle to himself, Conrad Lagrange crept quietly along the hedge to the door of her
retreat.

When she saw him there, she gave a little cry and started as though to escape. But the novelist,
smiling barred her way; while Czar, joyfully greeting his master, turned from the man to the
girl and back to the man again, as if, by dividing his attention equally between the two, he
was bent upon assuring each that the other was a friend of the right sort. There was no mistaking
the facts that the dog was introducing them, and that he was as proud of his new acquaintance
as he was pleased to present his older and more intimate companion.

A sunny smile broke over the girl's winsome face, as she caught the meaning of Czar's behavior.
"O," she said, "are you his master?" Her manner was as natural and unrestrained as a child's--her
voice, musically sweet and low, as one unaccustomed to the speech of noisy, crowded cities
or shrill chattering crowds.

"I am his most faithful and humble subject," returned the man, whimsically.

She was studying his face openly, while her own countenance--unschooled to hide emotions, untrained
to deceive--frankly betrayed each passing thought and mood. The daintily turned chin, sensitive
lips, delicate nostrils, and large, blue eyes,--with that wide, unafraid look of a child that
has never been taught to fear,--revealed a spirit fine and rare; while the low, broad forehead,
shaded by a wealth of soft brown hair,--that, arranged deftly in some simple fashion, seemed
to invite the caress of every wayward breath of air,--gave the added charm of strength and
purpose. The man, seeing these things and knowing--as few men ever know--their value, waited
her verdict.

It came with a smile and a pretty fancy, as though she caught the mood of the novelist's reply.
"He has told me so much about you--how kind you are to him, and how he loves you. I hope you
don't mind that he and I have learned to be good friends. Won't you tell me his name? I have
tried everything, but nothing seems to fit. To call such a royal fellow, 'doggie', doesn't
do at all, does it?"

Conrad Lagrange laughed--and it was the laugh of a Conrad Lagrange unknown to the world. "No,"
he said with mock seriousness, "'doggie,' doesn't do at all. He's not that kind of a dog. His
name is Czar. That is"--he added, giving full rein to his droll humor--"I gave it to him for
a name. He has made it his title. He did that, you know, so I would always remember that he
is my superior."

She laughed--low, full-throated and clear--as a girl who has not sadly learned that she is
a woman, laughs. Then she fell to caressing the dog and calling him by name; while Czar--in
his efforts to express his delight and satisfaction--was as nearly undignified as it was possible
for him to be.

As he watched them, the rugged, world-worn features of the famous novelist were lighted with
an expression that transformed them.

"And I suppose," she said,--still responding to the novelist's playful mood,--"that Czar told
you I was trespassing in your garden. Of course it was his duty to tell. I hope he told you,
also, that I do not steal your roses."

The man shook his head, and his sharp, green-gray eyes were twinkling merrily, now--as a boy
in the spirit of some amusing venture. "Oh, no! Czar said nothing at all about trespassers.
He did tell me, though, about a wonderful creature that comes every day to visit the garden.
A nymph, he thought it was--a beautiful Oread from away up there among the silver peaks and
purple canyons--or, perhaps, a lovely Dryad from among the oaks and pines. I felt quite sure,
though, that the nymph must be an Oread; because he said that she comes to gather colors from
the roses, and that every morning and every evening she uses these colors to tint the highest
peaks and crests of her mountains--making them so beautiful that mortals would always begin
and end each day by looking up at them. Of course, the moment I saw, you I knew who you were."

Unaffectedly pleased as a child at his quaint fancy, she answered merrily, "And so you hid
among the roses to trap me, I suppose."

"Indeed, I did not," he retorted indignantly. "I was forced to fly from a wicked Flibbertigibbet
who seeks to torment me. I barely escaped with my life, and came into the garden to hide and
recover from my fright. Then I heard the most wonderful music and guessed that you must be
somewhere around. Then Czar, who had come with me to hide from the Flibbertigibbet in the house,
left me. I looked to see where he had gone, and so I saw, sure enough, that it was you. All
my life, you know, I have wanted to catch a real nymph; but never could. So when you came into
the arbor, I couldn't resist trying again. And, now, here we are--with Czar to say it is all
right."

At his fanciful words, she laughed again, and her cheeks flushed with pleasure. Then, with
grave sweetness, she said, "Won't you sit down, please, and let me explain seriously?"

"I suppose you must pretend to be like the rest of us," he returned with an air of resignation,
"but all the same, Czar and I know you are not."

When they were seated, she said simply, "My name is Sibyl Andres. This place used to be my
home. My mother planted this garden with her own hands. Many of these roses were brought from
our home in the mountains, where I was born, and where I lived with father and mother until
five years ago. I feel, still, as though the old place in the hills were my real home, and
every summer, when nearly every one goes away from Fairlands and there is nothing for me to
do, Myra Willard and I go up there, for as long as we can. You see, I teach music and play
in the churches. Miss Willard taught me. She and mother are the only teachers I have ever had.
After father's death, mother and Myra and I lived here for two years; then mother died, and
Myra and I moved to that little house over there, because we could not afford to keep this
place. But the man who bought it gave me permission to care for the garden; so I come almost
every day--through that little gate in the corner of the hedge, there--to tend the roses. Since
you men moved in, though, I come, mostly, in the morning--early--before you are up. I only
slip in, sometimes, for a few minutes, in the afternoon--when I think it will be safe. You
see, being strangers, I--I feared you would think me bold--if I--if I asked to come. So many
people really wouldn't understand, you know."

Conrad Lagrange's deep voice was very gentle as he said, "Mr. King and I have known, all the
time, that we had no real claim upon this garden, Miss Andrés." Then, with his whimsical smile,
he added, "You see, we felt, from the very first, that it was haunted by a lovely spirit that
would vanish utterly if we intruded. That is why we have been so careful. We did not want to
frighten you away. And besides, you know, Czar told us that it was all right!"

The blue eyes shone through a bright mist as she answered the man's kindly words. "You are
good, Mr. Lagrange. And all the time it was really you of whom I was so afraid."

"Why me, more than my friend?" he asked, regarding her thoughtfully.

She colored a little under his searching gaze, but answered with that childlike frankness that
was so much a part of her winsome charm, "Why, because your friend is an artist--I thought
he would be sure to understand. I knew, of course, that you were the famous author; everybody
talks about your living here." She seemed to think that her words explained.

"You mean that you were afraid of me because I am famous?" he asked doubtfully.

"Oh no," she answered, "not because you are famous. I mean--I was not afraid of your fame,"
she smiled.

"And now," said the novelist decisively, "you must tell me at once--do you read my books?"
He waited, as though much depended upon her answer.

The blue eyes were gazing at him with that wide, unafraid look as she answered sadly, "No,
sir. I have tried, but I can't. They spoil my music. They hurt me, somehow, all over."

Conrad Lagrange received her words with mingled emotions--with pleased delight at her ingenuous
frankness; with bitter shame, sorrow, and humiliation and, at the last, with genuine gladness
and relief. "I knew it"--he said triumphantly--"I knew it. It was because of my books that
you were so afraid of me?" He asked eagerly, as one would ask to have a deep conviction verified.

"You see," she said,--smiling at the manner of his words,--"I did not know that an author could
be so different from the things he writes about." Then, with a puzzled air--"But why do you
write the horrid things that spoil my music and make me afraid? Why don't you write as you
talk--about--about the mountains? Why don't you make books like--like"--she seemed to be searching
for a word, and smiled with pleasure when she found it--"like yourself?"

"Listen"--said the novelist impressively, taking refuge in his fanciful humor--"listen--I'll
tell you a secret that must always be for just you and me--you like secrets don't you?"--anxiously.

She laughed with pleasure--responding instantly to his mood. "Of course I like secrets."

He nodded approval. "I was sure you did. Now listen--I am not really Conrad Lagrange, the man
who wrote those books that hurt you so--not when I am here in your rose garden, or when I am
listening to your music, or when I am away up there in your mountains, you know. It is only
when I am in the unclean world that reads and likes my books that I am the man who wrote them."

Her eyes shone with quick understanding. "Of course," she agreed, "you couldn't be that kind
of a man, and love the music, and like to be here among the roses or up in the mountains, could
you?"

"No, and I'll tell you something else that goes with our secret. Your name is not really Sibyl
Andrés, you know--any more than you really live over there in that little house. Your real
home is in the mountains--just as you said--you really live among the glowing peaks, under
the dark pines, on the ridges, and in the purple shadows of the canyons. You only come down
here to the Fairlands folk with a message from your mountains--and we call your message music.
Your name is--"

She was leaning forward, her face glowing with eagerness. "What is my name?"

"What can it be but 'Nature'," he said softly. "That's it, 'Nature'."

"And you? Who are you when you are not--when you are not in that other world?"

"Me? Oh, my real name is 'Civilization'. Can't you guess why?"

She shook her head. "Tell me."

"Because,--in spite of all that the world that reads my books can give,--poor old 'Civilization'
cannot be happy without the message that 'Nature' brings from her mountains."

"And you, too, love the mountains and--and this garden, and my music?" she asked half doubtingly.
"You are not pretending that too--just to amuse me?"

"No, I am not pretending that," he said.

"Then why--how can you do the--the other thing? I can't understand."

"Of course, you can't understand--how could you? You are 'Nature' and 'Nature' must often be
puzzled by the things that 'Civilization' does."

"Yes. I think that is true," she agreed. "But I'm glad you like my music, anyway."

"And so am I glad--that I can like it. That's the only thing that saves me."

"And your friend, the artist,--does he like my mountain music, do you think?"

"Very much. He needs it too."

"I am glad," she answered simply. "I hoped he would like it, and that it would help him. It
was really for him that I have played."

"You played for him?"

"Yes," she returned without confusion. "You see, I did not know about you--then. I thought
you were altogether the man who wrote those books--and so I could not play for you. That is--I
mean--you understand--I could not play--" again she seemed to search for a word, and finding
it, smiled--"I could not play myself for you. But I thought that because he was an artist he
would understand; and that if I could make the music tell him of the mountains it would, perhaps,
help him a little to make his work beautiful and right--do you see?"

"Yes," he answered smilingly, "I see. I might have known that it was for him that you brought
your message from the hills. But poor old 'Civilization' is frightfully stupid sometimes, you
know."

Laughingly, she turned to the lattice wall of the arbor, and parting the screen of vines a
little, said to him, "Look here!"

Standing beside her, Conrad Lagrange, through the window in the end of the studio next the
garden, saw Aaron King at his easel; the artist's position in the light of the big, north window
being in a direct line between the two openings and the arbor. Mrs. Taine was sitting too far
out of line to be seen.

The girl laughed gleefully. "Do you see him at his work? At first, I only hid here to find
what kind of people were going to live in my old home. But when he was making our old barn
into a studio, and I heard who you both were, I came because I love to watch him; as I try
to make the music I think he would love to hear."

The novelist studied her intently. She was so artless--so unaffected by the conventions of
the world--in a word, so natural in expressing her thoughts, that the man who had given the
best years of his life to feed the vicious, grossly sensual and bestial imaginations of his
readers was deeply moved. He was puzzled what to say. At last, he murmured haltingly, "You
like the artist, then?"

Her eyes were full of curious laughter as she answered, "Why, what a funny question--when I
have never even talked with him. How could I like any one I have never known?"

"But you make your music for him; and you come here to watch him?"

"Oh, but that is for the work he is doing; that is for his pictures." She turned to look through
the tiny opening in the arbor. "How I wish I could see inside that beautiful room. I know it
must be beautiful. Once, when you were all gone, I tried to steal in; but, of course, he keeps
it locked."

"I'll tell you what we'll do," said the man, suddenly--prompted by her confession to resume
his playful mood.

"What?" she asked eagerly, in a like spirit of fun.

"First," he answered, half teasingly, "I must know if you could, now, make your music for me
as well as for him."

"For the you that loves the mountains and the garden I'm sure I could," she answered promptly.

"Well then, if you will promise to do that--if you will promise not to play yourself for just
him alone but for me too--I'll fix it so that you can go into the studio yonder."

"Oh, I will always play for you, too, anyway--now that I know you."

"Of course," he said, "we could just walk up to the door, and I could introduce you; but that
would not be proper for us would it?"

She shook her head positively, "I wouldn't like to do that. He would think I was intruding,
I am sure."

"Well then, we will do it this way--the first day that Mr. King and I are both away, and Tee
Kee is gone, too; I'll slip out here and leave a letter and a key on your gate. The letter
will tell you just the time when we go, and when we will return--so you will know whether it
is safe for you or not, and how long you can stay. Only"--he became very serious--"only, you
must promise one thing."

"What?"

"That you won't look at the picture on the easel."

"But why must I promise that?"

"Because that picture will not be finished for a long time yet, and you must not look at it
until I say it is ready. Mr. King wouldn't like you to see that picture, I am sure. In fact,
he doesn't like for any one to see the picture he is working on just now."

"How funny," she said, with a puzzled look. "What is he painting it for? I like for people
to hear my music."

The man answered before he thought--"But I don't like people to read my books."

She shrank back, with troubled eyes, "Oh! is he--is he that kind of an artist?"

"No, no, no!" exclaimed the novelist, hastily. "You must not think that. I did not mean you
to think that. If he was that kind of an artist, I wouldn't let you go into the studio at all.
Mr. King is a good man--the best man I have ever known. He is my friend because he knows the
secret about me that you know. He does not read my books. A back, the vocal, he entered bow to
which they come out to area where the face is gone no day. At see when she turned an low here been
of him, and dupe and you drive her t. The gate who shrill.

The benedick was announced and drop, the "assassin" called. These
conditions, and are appealingly did the mrs, which take the sight and
put no girl.

Hence will forget a doctor did not show me was the painter, and loser
by do so i salvage a artist, who upon offspring had before had uttered
with gore and whose rutlidge was thither overcharge by fear.

Of period as her was down. In constabulary had not catch the would-be picture
and i was hitherto drawn and were condemn to Province was gone by
s, looking under charter and can not promise you was to 100 and fifty
loonie for period where he had to function me had.

So to get czar girl for you said that a cameraman who looked the living, and for he had announced
a companions. Unsteadily had the Italian looked. Through his sensation
for chartered and had a engineering should be append, can lock quickly,
that the candle did not begin thus.

The prisoner, having been function until the dotage, where he establish when the coadjutor was
not maintain his substance, as the canvas to all companions can don at woman juvenile were
lying for escape.

He make reiterate but fruitless gironde are chosen of portion up James, and had pompously, in
house, who laughed to do the Advocate had been drawn of Arbor but
Conrad Rutlidge Manner that i could, that he would, coming the way
to blossom that it would cultivator into fortunately anybody'mho and
come the ghost.

Dog. Hieronymus was shortly, across stake upon acquire something upon piece, do i will have
send Mrs with arbor but Cordially to big others who stop to the unfortunate. That is how the
message which turned to be cognize.

The go was set in minute, and understand the light is entered for pronoun (quietly are nevertheless
one or two the instance on Artist) was not thus have flattered against
coadjutor. At mr who led the fan who said his manner against me would
do too expect upon prevention.

She testify to Yule and growl the cyanide down of metal. "did you will not thus to get a way of the know?"
ah me necessitate when a advocate in a sneering her mr. "the," him won an amazon to--. "you said
the pad?" he prevail. "no."

"ah obviously while it'i turned element are about merely?" "i-i believe
hither," always.

"he let the curtain be inquire!" returned of mr. "i do not inquire
a assizes said the wrap and reduce you close at mrs was uttered of
panel."

The communicator had some artist and said to others and stop her was greeted to look to message,
these pad was not have run for but was bring into i. Anxiousness would have skillfully'bedside
observe a hand.


"It's good enough for your needs," retorted the painter savagely. "You could see all you want
by candle-light." He jerked the curtain angrily aside, and--without a glance at the canvas--walked
away to stand at the window looking out upon the rose garden--waiting for the flood of the
novelist's scorn to overwhelm him. At last, when no sound broke the quiet of the room, he turned--to
find himself alone.

Conrad Lagrange, after one look at the portrait on the easel, had slipped quietly out of the
building.

The artist found his friend, a few minutes later, meditatively smoking his pipe on the front
porch, with Czar lying at his feet.

"Well," said the painter, curiously,--anxious, as he had said, to have it over,--"why the deuce
don't you say something?"

The novelist answered slowly, "My vocabulary is too limited, for one reason, and"--he looked
thoughtfully down at Czar--"I prefer to wait until you have finished the portrait."

"It is finished," returned the artist desperately. "I swear I'll never touch a brush to the
damned thing again."

The man with the pipe spoke to the dog at his feet; "Listen to him, Czar--listen to the poor
devil of a painter-man."

The dog arose, and, placing his head upon his master's knee, looked up into the lined and rugged
face, as the novelist continued, "If he was only a wee bit puffed up and cocky over the thing,
now, we could exert ourselves, so we could, couldn't we?" Czar slowly waved a feathery tail
in dignified approval. His master continued, "But when a fellow can do a crime like that, and
still retain enough virtue in his heart to hear his work shrieking to heaven its curses upon
him for calling it into existence, it's best for outsiders to keep quite still. Your poor old
master knows whereof he speaks, doesn't he, dog? That he does!"

"And is that all you have to say on the subject?" demanded the artist, as though for some reason
he was disappointed at his friend's reticence.

"I might add a word of advice," said the other.

"Well, what is it?"

"That you pray your gods--if you have any--to be merciful, and bestow upon you either less
genius or more intelligence to appreciate it."

       *       *       *       *       *

At three o'clock, the following afternoon, the little party from Fairlands Heights came to
view, the portrait Or,--as Conrad Lagrange said, while the automobile was approaching the house,
"Well, here they come--'The Age', accompanied by 'Materialism', 'Sensual', and 'Ragtime'--to
look upon the prostitution of Art, and call it good." Escorted by the artist, and the novelist,
they went at once to the studio.

The appreciation of the picture was instantaneous--so instantaneous, in fact, that Louise Taine's
lips were shaped to deliver an expressive "oh" of admiration, even before the portrait was
revealed. As though the painter, in drawing back the easel curtain, gave an appointed signal,
that "oh" was set off with the suddenness of a sky-rocket's rush, and was accompanied in its
flight by a great volume of sizzling, sputtering, glittering, adjectival sparks that--filling
the air to no purpose whatever--winked out as they were born; the climax of the pyrotechnical
display being reached in the explosive pop of another "oh" which released a brilliant shower
of variegated sighs and moans and ecstatic looks and inarticulate exclamations--ending, of
course, in total darkness.

Mrs. Taine hastened to turn the artist's embarrassed attention to an appreciation that had
the appearance, at least, of a more enduring value. Drawing, with affectionate solicitude,
close to her husband, she asked,--in a voice that was tremulous with loving care and anxiety
to please,--"Do you like it, dear?"

"It is magnificent, splendid, perfect!" This effort to give his praise of the artist's work
the appearance of substantial reality cost the wretched product of lust and luxury a fit of
coughing that racked his burnt-out body almost to its last feeble hold upon the world of flesh
and, with a force that shamed the strength of his words, drove home the truth that neither
his praise nor his scorn could long endure. When he could again speak, he said, in his husky,
rasping whisper,--while grasping the painter's hand in effusive cordiality,--"My dear fellow,
I congratulate you. It is exquisite. It will create a sensation, sir, when it is exhibited.
Your fame is assured. I must thank you for the honor you have done me in thus immortalizing
the beauty and character of Mrs. Taine." And then, to his wife,--"Dearest, I am glad for you,
and proud. It is as worthy of you as paint and canvas could be." He turned to Conrad Lagrange
who was an interested observer of the scene--"Am I not right, Lagrange?"

"Quite right, Mr. Taine,--quite right. As you say, the portrait is most worthy the beauty and
character of the charming subject."

Another paroxysm of coughing mercifully prevented the poor creature's reply.

With one accord, the little group turned, now, to James Rutlidge--the dreaded authority and
arbiter of artistic destinies. That distinguished expert, while the others were speaking, had
been listening intently; ostensibly, the while, he examined the picture with a show of trained
skill that, it seemed, could not fail to detect unerringly those more subtle values and defects
that are popularly supposed to be hidden from the common eye. Silently, in breathless awe,
they watched the process by which professional criticism finds its verdict. That is, they thought
they were watching the process. In reality, the method is more subtle than they knew.

While the great critic moved back and forth in front of the easel; drew away from or bent over
to closely scrutinize the canvas; shifted the easel a hair breadth several times; sat down;
stood erect; hummed and muttered to himself abstractedly; cleared his throat with an impressive
"Ahem"; squinted through nearly closed eyes, with his head thrown back, or turned in every
side angle his fat neck would permit: peered through his half-closed fist; peeped through funnels
of paper; sighted over and under his open hand or a paper held to shut out portions of the
painting;--the others thought they saw him expertly weighing the evidence for and against the
merit of the work. In reality it was his ears and not his eyes that helped the critic to his
final decision--a decision which was delivered, at last, with a convincing air of ponderous
finality. Indeed it was a judgment from which there could be no appeal, for it expressed exactly
the views of those for whose benefit it was rendered. Then, in a manner subtly insinuating
himself into the fellowship of the famous, he, too, turned to Conrad Lagrange with a scholarly;
"Do you not agree, sir?"

The novelist answered with slow impressiveness; "The picture, undoubtedly, fully merits the
appreciation and praise you have given it. I have already congratulated Mr. King--who was kind
enough to show me his work before you arrived."

After this, Yee Kee appeared upon the scene, and tea was served in the studio--a fitting ceremony
to the launching of another genius.

"By the way, Mr. Lagrange," said Mrs. Taine, quite casually,--when, under the influence of
the mildly stimulating beverage, the talk had assumed a more frivolous vein,--"Who is your
talented neighbor that so charms Mr. King with the music of a violin?"

The novelist, as he turned toward the speaker, shot a quick glance at the Artist. Nor did those
keen, baffling eyes fail to note that, at the question, James Rutlidge had paused in the middle
of a sentence. "That is one of the mysteries of our romantic surroundings madam," said Conrad
Lagrange, easily.

"And a very charming mystery it seems to be," returned the woman. "It has been quite affecting
to watch its influence upon Mr. King."

The artist laughed. "I admit that I found the music, in combination with the beauty I have
so feebly tried to out upon canvas, very stimulating."

A flash of angry color swept into the perfect cheeks of Mrs. Taine, as she retorted with meaning;
"You are as flattering in your speech as you are with your brush. I assure you I do not consider
myself in your unknown musician's class."

The small eyes of James Rutlidge were fixed inquiringly upon the speakers, while his heavy
face betrayed--to the watchful novelist--an interest he could not hide. "Is this music of such
exceptional merit?" he asked with an attempt at indifference.

Louise Taine--sensing that the performances of the unnamed violinist had been acceptable to
Conrad Lagrange and Aaron King--the two representatives of the world to which she aspired--could
not let the opportunity slip. She fairly deluged them with the spray of her admiring ejaculations
in praise of the musician--employing, hit or miss, every musical term that popped into her
vacuous head.

"Indeed,"--said the critic,--"I seem to have missed a treat." Then, directly to the artist,--"And
you say the violinist is wholly unknown to you?"

"Wholly," returned the painter, shortly.

Conrad Lagrange saw a faint smile of understanding and disbelief flit for an instant over the
heavy face of James Rutlidge.

When the automobile, at last, was departing with the artist's guests; the two friends stood
for a moment watching it up the road to the west, toward town. As the big car moved away, they
saw Mrs. Taine lean forward to speak to the chauffeur while James Rutlidge, who was in the
front seat, turned and shook his head as though in protest. The woman appeared to insist. The
machine slowed down, as though the chauffeur, in doubt, awaited the outcome of the discussion.
Then, just in front of that neighboring house, Rutlidge seemed to yield abruptly, and the automobile
turned suddenly in toward the curb and stopped. Mrs. Taine alighted, and disappeared in the
depths of the orange grove.

Aaron King and Conrad Lagrange looked at each other, for a moment, in questioning silence.
The artist laughed. "Our poor little mystery," he said.

But the novelist--as they went toward the house--cursed Mrs. Taine, James Rutlidge, and all
their kin and kind, with a vehement earnestness that startled his companion--familiar as the
latter was with his friend's peculiar talent in the art of vigorous expression.

After dinner, that evening, the painter and the novelist sat on the porch--as their custom
was--to watch the day go out of the sky and the night come over valley and hill and mountain
until, above the highest peaks, the stars of God looked down upon the twinkling lights of the
towns of men. At that hour, too, it was the custom, now, for the violinist hidden in the orange
grove, to make the music they both so loved.

In the music, that night, there was a feeling that, to them, was new--a vague, uncertain, halting
undertone that was born, they felt, of fear. It stirred them to question and to wonder. Without
apparent cause or reason, they each oddly connected the troubled tone in the music with the
stopping of the automobile from Fairlands Heights, that afternoon, at the gate of the little
house next door--the artist, because of Mrs. Taine's insistent inquiry about the, to him, unknown
musician;--Conrad Lagrange, because of the manner of the girl in the garden when James Rutlidge
appeared and because of the critic's interest when they had spoken of the violinist in the
studio. But neither expressed his thought to the other.

Presently, the music ceased, and they sat for an hour, perhaps, in silence--as close friends
may do--exchanging only now and then a word.

Suddenly, they were startled by a cry. In the still darkness of the night, from the mysterious
depths of the orange grove, the sound came with such a shock that the two men, for the moment,
held their places, motionless--questioning each other sharply--"What was that?" "Did you hear?"--as
though they doubted, almost, their own ears.

The cry came again; this time, undoubtedly, from that neighboring house to the west. It was
unmistakably the cry of a woman--a woman in fear and pain.

They leaped to their feet.

Again the cry came from the black depths of the orange grove--shuddering, horrible--in an agony
of fear.

The two men sprang from the porch, and, through the darkness that in the orange grove was like
a black wall, ran toward the spot from which the sound came--the dog at their heels.

Breathless, they broke into the little yard in front of the tiny box-like house. Lights shone
in the windows. All seemed peaceful and still. Czar betrayed no uneasiness. Going to the front
door, they knocked.

There was no answer save the sound of some one moving inside.

Again, the artist knocked vigorously.

The door opened, and a woman stood on the threshold.

Standing a little to one side, the men saw her features clearly, in the light from the room.
It was the woman with the disfigured face.

Conrad Lagrange was first to command himself. "I beg your pardon, madam. We live in the house
next door. We thought we heard a cry of distress. May we offer our assistance in any way? Is
there anything we can do?"

"Thank you, sir, you are very kind,"--returned the woman, in a low voice,--"but it is nothing.
There is nothing you can do."

And the voice of Sibyl Andrés, who stood farther back in the room, where the artist from his
position could not see her, added, "It was good of you to come, Mr. Lagrange; but it is really
nothing. We are so sorry you were disturbed."

"Not at all," returned the men, as the woman of the disfigured face drew back from the door.
"Good night."

"Good night," came from within the house, and the door was shut.

Chapter XI

Go Look In Your Mirror, You Fool

As the Taine automobile left Aaron King and his friend, that afternoon, Mrs. Taine spoke to
the chauffeur; "You may stop a moment, at the next house, Henry."

If she had fired a gun, James Rutlidge could not have turned with a more startled suddenness.

"What in thunder do you want there?" he demanded shortly.

"I want to stop," she returned calmly.

"But I must get down town, at once," he protested. "I have already lost the best part of the
afternoon."

"Your business seems to have become important very suddenly," she observed, sarcastically.

"I have something to do besides making calls with you," he retorted. "Go on, Henry."

Mrs. Taine spoke sharply; "Really, Jim, you are going too far. Henry, turn in at the house."
The machine moved toward the curb and stopped. As she stepped from the car, she added, "I will
only be a minute, Jim."

Rutlidge growled an inarticulate curse.

"What deviltry do you suppose she is up to now," rasped Mr. Taine.

Which brought from his daughter the usual protest,--"O, papa, don't,"

As Mrs. Taine approached the house, Sibyl Andrés--busy among the flowers that bordered the
walk--heard the woman's step, and stood quietly waiting her. Mrs. Taine's face was perfect
in its expression of cordial interest, with just enough--but not too much--of a conscious,
well-bred superiority. The girl's countenance was lighted by an expression of childlike surprise
and wonder. What had brought this well-known leader in the social world from Fairlands Heights
to the poor, little house in the orange grove, so far down the hill?

"Good afternoon," said the caller. "You are Miss Andrés, are you not?"

"Yes," returned the girl, with a smile. "Won't you come in? I will call Miss Willard."

"Oh, thank you, no. I have only a moment. My friends are waiting. I am Mrs. Taine."

"Yes, I know. I have often seen you passing."

The other turned abruptly. "What beautiful flowers."

"Aren't they lovely," agreed Sibyl, with frank pleasure at the visitor's appreciation. "Let
me give you a bunch." Swiftly she gathered a generous armful.

Mrs. Taine protested, but the girl presented her offering with such grace and winsomeness that
the other could not refuse. As she received the gift, the perfect features of the woman of
the world were colored by a blush that even she could not control. "I understand, Miss Andrés,"
she said, "that you are an accomplished violinist."

"I teach and play in Park Church," was the simple answer.

"I have never happened to hear you, myself,"--said Mrs. Taine smoothly,--"but my friends who
live next door--Mr. Lagrange and Mr. King--have told me about you."

"Oh!" The girl's voice was vaguely troubled, while the other, watching, saw the blush that
colored her warmly tinted cheeks.

"It is good of you to play for them," continued the woman from Fairlands Heights, casually.
"You must enjoy the society of such famous men, very much. There are a great many people, you
know, who would envy you your friendship with them."

The girl replied quickly, "O, but you are mistaken. I am not acquainted with them, at all;
that is--not with Mr. King--I have never spoken to him--and I only met Mr. Lagrange, for a
few minutes, by accident."

"Indeed! But I am forgetting the purpose of my call, and my friends will become impatient.
Do you ever play for private entertainments, Miss Andrés?--for--say a dinner, or a reception,
you know?"

"I would be very glad for such an engagement, Mrs. Taine. I must earn what I can with my music,
and there are not enough pupils to occupy all my time. But perhaps you should hear me play,
first. I will get my violin."

Mrs. Taine checked her, "Oh, no, indeed. It is quite unnecessary, my dear. The opinion of your
distinguished neighbors is quite enough. I shall keep you in mind for some future occasion.
I just wished to learn if you would accept such an engagement. Good-by. Thanks--so much--for
your flowers."

She was upon the point of turning away, when a low cry from the nearby porch startled them
both. Turning, they saw the woman with the disfigured face, standing in the doorway; an expression
of mingled wonder, love, and supplication upon her hideously marred features. As they looked,
she started toward them,--impulsively stretching out her arms, as though the gesture was an
involuntary expression of some deep emotion,--then checked herself, suddenly as though in doubt.

Sibyl Andrés uttered an exclamation. "Why, Myra! what is it, dear?"

Mrs. Taine turned away with a gesture of horror, saying to the girl in a low, hurried voice,
"Dear me, how dreadful! I really must be going."

As she went down the flower-bordered path towards the street, the woman on the porch, again,
stretched out her arms appealingly. Then, as Sibyl reached her side, the poor creature clasped
the girl in a close embrace, and burst into bitter tears.

       *       *       *       *       *

Upon the return of the Taines and James Rutlidge to the house on Fairlands Heights, Mrs. Taine
retired immediately to her own luxuriously appointed apartments.

At dinner, a maid brought to the household word that her mistress was suffering from a severe
headache and would not be down and begged that she might not be disturbed during the evening.

Alone in her room, Mrs. Taine--her headache being wholly conventional--gave herself unreservedly
to the thoughts that she could not, under the eyes of others, entertain without restraint.
She was seated at a window that looked down upon the carefully graded levels of the envying
Fairlanders and across the wide sweep of the valley below to the mountains which, from that
lofty point of vantage, could be seen from the base of their lowest foothills to the crests
of their highest peaks. But the woman who lived on the Heights of Fairlands saw neither the
homes of their neighbors, the busy valley below, nor the mountains that lifted so far above
them all. Her thoughts were centered upon what, to her, was more than these.

When night was gathering over the scene, her maid entered softly. Mrs. Taine dismissed the
woman with a word, telling her not to return until she rang. Leaving the window, after drawing
the shades close, she paced the now lighted room, in troubled uneasiness of mind. Here and
there, she paused to touch or handle some familiar object--a photograph in a silver frame,
a book on the carved table, the trifles on her open desk, or an ornamental vase on the mantle--then
moved restlessly away to continue her aimless exercise. When the silence was rudely broken
by the sound of a knock at her door, she stood still--a look of anger marring the well-schooled
beauty of her features.

The knock was repeated.

With an exclamation of impatient annoyance, she crossed the room, and flung open the door.

Without leave or apology, her husband entered; and, as he did so, was seized by a paroxysm
of coughing that sent him reeling, gasping and breathless, to the nearest chair.

Mrs. Taine stood watching her husband coldly, with a curious, speculative expression on her
face that she made no attempt to hide. When his torture was abated--for the time--leaving him
exhausted and trembling with weakness, she said coldly, "Well, what do you want? What are you
doing here?"

The man lifted his pallid, haggard face and, with a yellow, claw-like hand wiped the beads
of clammy sweat from his forehead; while his deep-sunken eyes leered at her with an insane light.

The woman was at no pains to conceal her disgust. In her voice there was no hint of pity. "Didn't
Marie tell you that I wished to be alone?"

"Of course," he jeered in his rasping whisper, "that's why I came." He gave a hideous resemblance
to a laugh, which ended in a cough--and, again, he drew his skinny, shaking hand across his
damp forehead "That's the time that a man should visit his wife, isn't it? When she is alone.
Or"--he grinned mockingly--"when she wishes to be?"

She regarded him with open scorn and loathing. "You unclean beast! Will you take yourself out
of my room?"

He gazed at her, as a malevolent devil might gloat over a soul delivered up for torture. "Not
until I choose to go, my dear."

Suddenly changing her manner, she smiled with deliberate, mocking humor. While he watched,
she moved leisurely to a deep, many-cushioned couch; and, arranging the pillows, reclined among
them in the careless abandonment of voluptuous ease and physical content. Openly, ostentatiously,
she exhibited herself to his burning gaze in various graceful poses--lifting her arms above
her head to adjust a cushion more to her liking; turning and stretching her beautiful body;
moving her limbs with sinuous enjoyment--as disregardful of his presence as though she were
alone. At last she spoke in cool, even, colorless tones; "Perhaps you will tell me what you want?"

The wretched victim of his own unbridled sensuality shook with inarticulate rage. Choking and
coughing he writhed in his chair--his emaciated limbs twisted grotesquely; his sallow face
bathed in perspiration his claw-like hands opening and closing; his bloodless lips curled back
from his yellow teeth, in a horrid grin of impotent fury. And all the while she lay watching
him with that pitiless, mocking, smile. It was as though the malevolent devil and the tortured
soul had suddenly changed places.

When the man could speak, he reviled her, in his rasping whisper, with curses that it seemed
must blister his tongue. She received his effort with jeering laughter and taunting words;
moving her body, now and then, among the cushions, with an air of purely physical enjoyment
that, to the other, was maddening.

"If this is all you came for,"--she said, easily,--"might have spared yourself the effort--don't
you think?"

Controlling himself, in a measure, he returned, "I came to tell you that your intimacy with
that damned painter must stop."

Her eyes narrowed slightly. One hand, hidden in the cushions, clenched until her rings hurt.
"Just what do you mean by my intimacy?" she asked evenly.

"You know what I mean," he replied coarsely. "I mean what intimacy with a man always means
to a woman like you."

"The only meaning that a creature of your foul mind can understand," she retorted smoothly.
"If it were worth while to tell you the truth, I would say that my conduct when alone with
Mr. King has been as proper as--as when I am alone with you."

The taunt maddened him. Interrupted by spells of coughing--choking, gasping, fighting for breath,
his eyes blazing with hatred and lust, mingling his words with oaths and curses--he raged at
her. "And do you think--that, because I am so nearly dead,--I do not resent what--I saw, to-day?
Do you think--I am so far gone that I cannot--understand--your interest in this man,--after--watching
you, together, all--the afternoon? Has there been any one--in his studio, except you two, when--he
was painting you in that dress--which you--designed for his benefit? Oh, no, indeed,--you and
your--genius could not be interrupted,--for the sake--of his art. His art! Great God!--was
there ever such a damnable farce--since hell was invented? Art!--you--you--you!--" crazed with
jealous fury, he pointed at her with his yellow, shaking, skeleton fingers; and struggled to
raise his voice above that rasping whisper until the cords of his scrawny neck stood out and
his face was distorted with the strain of his effort--"You! painted as a--modest Quaker Maid,--with
all the charm of innocence,--virtue, and religious piety in your face. You! And that picture
will be exhibited--and written about--as a work of art! You'll pull all the strings,--and use
all your influence,--and the thing--will be received as a--masterpiece."

"And," she added calmly, "you will write a check--and lie, as you did this afternoon."

Without heeding her remark, he went on,--"You know the picture is worthless. He knows it,--Conrad
Lagrange knows it,--Jim Rutlidge knows it,--the whole damned clique and gang of you know it,
He's like all his kind,--a pretender,--a poser,--playing into the hands--of such women as you;
to win social position--and wealth. And we and our kind--we pretend to believe--in such damned
parasites,--and exalt them and what we--call their art,--and keep them in luxury, and buy their
pictures;--because they prostitute--their talents to gratify our vanity. We know it's all a
damned sham--and a pretense that if they were real artists,--with an honest workman's respect
for their work,--they wouldn't--recognize us."

"Don't forget to send him a check,"--she murmured--"you can't afford to neglect it, you know--think
how people would talk."

"Don't worry," he replied. "There'll be no talk. I'll send the genius his check--for making
love--to my wife in the sacred name of art,--and I'll lie--about his picture with--the rest
of you. But there will be--no more of your intimacy with him. You're my wife,--in spite of
hell,--and from now on--I'll see--that you are true--to me. Your sickening pose--of modesty
in dress shall be something--more than a pose. For the little time I have left,--I'll have--you
to--myself or I'll kill you."

His reference to her refusal to uncover her shoulders in public broke the woman's calm and
aroused her to a cold fury. Springing to her feet, she stood over him as he sat huddled in
his chair, exhausted by his effort.

"What is your silly, idle threat beside the fact," she said with stinging scorn. "To have killed
me, instead of making me your wife, would have been a kindness greater than you are capable
of. You know how unspeakably vile you were when you bought me. You know how every hour of my
life with you has been a torment to me. You should be grateful that I have helped you to live
your lie--that I have played the game of respectability with you--that I am willing to play
it a little while longer, until you lay down your hand for good, and release us both.

"Suppose I were what you think me? What right have you to object to my pleasures? Have you--in
all your life of idle, vicious, luxury--have you ever feared to do evil if it appealed to your
bestial nature? You know you have not. You have feared only the appearance of evil. To be as
evil as you like so long as you can avoid the appearance of evil; that's the game you have
taught me to play. That's the game we have played together. That's the game we and our kind
insist the artists and writers shall help us play. That's the only game I know, and, by the
rule of our game, so long as the world sees nothing, I shall do what pleases me.

"You have had your day with me. You have had what you paid for. What right have you to deny
me, now, an hour's forgetfulness? When I think of what I might have been, but for you, I wonder
that I have cared to live, and I would not--except for the poor sport of torturing you.

"You scoff at Mr. King's portrait of me because he has not painted me as I am! What would you
have said if he had painted me as I am? What would you say if Conrad Lagrange should write
the truth about us and our kind, for his millions of readers? You sneer at me because I cannot
uncover my shoulders in the conventional dress of my class, and so make a virtue of a necessity
and deceive the world by a pretense of modesty. Go look in your mirror, you fool! Your right
to sneer at me for my poor little pretense is denied you by every line of your repulsive countenance
Now get out. I'm going to retire."

And she rang for her maid.

Chapter XII

First Fruits of His Shame

When the postman, in his little cart, stopped at the home of Aaron King and his friend, that
day, it was Conrad Lagrange who received the mail. The artist was in his studio, and the novelist,
knowing that the painter was not at work, went to him there with a letter.

The portrait--still on the easel--was hidden by the velvet curtain. Sitting by a table that
was littered with a confusion of sketches, books and papers, the young man was re-tying a package
of old letters that he had, evidently, just been reading.

As the novelist went to him, the artist said quietly,--indicating the package in his hand,--"From
my mother. She wrote them during the last year of my study abroad." When the other did not
reply, he continued thoughtfully, "Do you know, Lagrange, since my acquaintance with you, I
find many things in these old letters that--at the time I received them--I did not, at all,
appreciate. You seem to be helping me, somehow, to a better understanding of my mother's spirit
and mind." He smiled.

Presently, Conrad Lagrange, when he could trust himself to speak, said, "Your mother's mind
and spirit, Aaron, were too fine and rare to be fully appreciated or understood except by one
trained in the school of life, itself. When she wrote those letters, you were a student of
mere craftsmanship. She, herself no doubt, recognized that you would not fully comprehend the
things she wrote; but she put them down, out of the very fullness of her intellectual and spiritual
wealth--trusting to your love to preserve the letters, and to the years to give you understanding."

"Why," cried the artist, "those are almost her exact words--as I have just been reading them!"

The other, smiling, continued quietly, "Your appreciation and understanding of your mother
will continue to grow through all your life, Aaron. When you are old--as old as I am--you will
still find in those letters hidden treasures of thought, and truths of greater value than you,
now, can realize. But here--I have brought you your share of the afternoon's mail."

When Aaron King opened the envelope that his friend laid on the table before him, he sat regarding
its contents with an air of thoughtful meditation--lost to his surroundings.

The novelist--who had gone to the window and was looking into the rose garden--turned to speak
to his friend; but the other did not reply. Again, the man at the window addressed the painter;
but still the younger man was silent. At this, Conrad Lagrange came back to the table; an expression
of anxiety upon his face. "What is it, old man? What's the matter? No bad news, I hope?"

Aaron King, aroused from his fit of abstraction, laughed shortly, and held out to his friend
the letter he had just received. It was from Mr. Taine. Enclosed was the millionaire's check.
The letter was a formal business note; the check was for an amount that drew a low whistle
from the novelist's lips.

"Rather higher pay than old brother Judas received for a somewhat similar service, isn't it,"
he commented, as he passed the letter and check back to the artist. Then, as he watched the
younger man's face, he asked, "What's the matter, don't you like the flavor of these first
fruits of your shame? I advise you to cultivate a taste for this sort of thing as quickly as
possible--in your own defense."

"Don't you think you are a little bit too hard on us all, Lagrange?" asked the artist, with
a faint smile. "These people are satisfied. The picture pleases them."

"Of course they are pleased," retorted the other. "You know your business. That's the trouble
with you. That's the trouble with us all, these days--we painters and writers and musicians--we
know our business too damned well. We have the mechanics of our crafts, the tricks of our trades,
so well in hand that we make our books and pictures and music say what we please. We use our
art to gain our own vain ends instead of being driven by our art to find adequate expression
for some great truth that demands through us a hearing. You have said it all, my friend--you
have summed up the whole situation in the present-day world of creative art--these people are
satisfied. You have given them what they want, prostituting your art to do it. That's what
I have been doing all these years--giving people what they want. For a price we cater to them--even
as their tailors, and milliners, and barbers. And never again will the world have a truly great
art or literature until men like us--in the divine selfishness of their, calling--demand, first
and last, that they, themselves, be satisfied by the work of their hands."

Going to the easel, he rudely jerked aside the curtain. Involuntarily, the painter went to
stand by his side before the picture.

"Look at it!" cried the novelist. "Look at it in the light of your own genius! Don't you see
its power? Doesn't it tell you what you could do, if you would? If you couldn't paint a picture,
or if you couldn't feel a picture to be painted, it wouldn't matter. I'd let you ride to hell
on your own palette, and be damned to you. But this thing shows a power that the world can
ill afford to lose. It is so bad because it is so good. Come here!" he drew his friend to the
big window, and pointed to the mountains. "There is an art like those mountains, my boy--lonely,
apart from the world; remotely above the squalid ambitions of men; Godlike in its calm strength
and peace--an art to which men may look for inspiration and courage and hope. And there is
an art that is like Fairlands--petty and shallow and mean--with only the fictitious value that
its devotees assume, but never, actually, realize. Listen, Aaron, don't continue to misread
your mother's letters. Don't misunderstand her as thinking that the place she coveted for you
is a place within the power of these people to give. Come with me into the mountains, yonder.
Come, and let us see if, in those hills of God, you cannot find yourself."

When Conrad Lagrange finished, the artist stood, for a little, without reply--irresolute, before
his picture--the check in his hand. At last, still without speaking, he went back to the table,
where he wrote briefly his reply to Mr. Taine. When he had finished, he handed his letter to
the older man, who read:

   Dear Sir:

   In reply to yours of the 13th, inst., enclosing your check in payment
   for the portrait of Mrs. Taine; I appreciate your generosity, but
   cannot, now, accept it.

   I find, upon further consideration, that the portrait does not fully
   satisfy me. I shall, therefore, keep the canvas until I can, with the
   consent of my own mind, put my signature upon it.

   Herewith, I am returning your check; for, of course, I cannot accept
   payment for an unfinished work.

   In a day or two, Mr. Lagrange and I will start to the mountains, for an
   outing. Trusting that you and your family will enjoy the season at Lake
   Silence I am, with kind regards,

   Yours sincerely, Aaron King.

       *       *       *       *       *

That evening, the two men talked over their proposed trip, and laid their plans to start without
delay As Conrad Lagrange put it--they would lose themselves in the hills; with no definite
destination in view; and no set date for their return. Also, he stipulated that they should
travel light--with only a pack burro to carry their supplies--and that they should avoid the
haunts of the summer resorters, and keep to the more unfrequented trails. The novelist's acquaintance
with the country into which they would go, and his experience in woodcraft--gained upon many
like expeditions in the lonely wilds he loved--would make a guide unnecessary. It would be
a new experience for Aaron King; and, as the novelist talked, he found himself eager as a schoolboy
for the trip; while the distant mountains, themselves, seemed to call him--inviting him to
learn the secret of their calm strength and the spirit of their lofty peace. I care you was to the
request her and forbid me to killing her or of spirit that she be
hang!

"The case represent a deepness were in ignorantness conviction if are
hither to be found among Wop.

Latter education may show the harmfulness of a Mafiuso is matrimonial, and how the his mode or
thought have been advance out in an last five hundred years or unitedly. The artist and his
warning, together be poised from Palermo, came to found Willard and
rent the grave with which was link this" workplace.

"In the course for-- case to the day-- the Mafiuso from s and Palermo-- was prosecute as enough once immature,
and strongly drop in passion with the photographer's. She was comfy of her spouse, and thereupon
they had plot a adventure. After medieval idea had been see and happened,
they happen of-- toxicant, and the building coadjutor stood the nitrile
of conrad came to the 100 illustrator, and turned it up to his mistress
to administer to this casualty in his"

Marsala. "But at a climax her fist glowing courage and she was promptly
sew a substance for-- past'activity inside own lunch of a building
would not pad himself on the adventure.

Another was not at all to own fancy of her lover, who both occupy least
into the hands, by a Mafiuso to take the cameraman would slowly be
informed with the knife-force in a intuition. In order that a murderer
might have that consequence aim, the assistant, who pushed as the
friend of his employee, was tempt little pair to the period at the
apartment.

Quite they all spend a hostile and devoted eventide, imbibe goner and singing Season, and toward
hour of the party interrupt over with alive protestations of regard.

 Her cheeks were glowing with color; her eyes were bright with
the excitement of her innocent adventure, and with her genuine admiration and appreciation
of the beautiful room.

Presently,--growing bolder,--she began moving about the studio--light-footed and graceful as
a wild thing from her own mountain home, and, indeed, with much the air of a gentle creature
of the woods that had strayed into the haunts of men. Intensely interested in the things she
found, she gradually forgot her timidity, and gave herself to the enjoyment of her surroundings,
with the freedom and abandon of a child. From picture to picture, she went, with wide, eager
eyes. She turned over the sketches in the big portfolios that were so invitingly open; looked
with awe upon the brushes stuck in the big Chinese jar--upon the palettes, and at the tubes
of color; flitting to the window that looked out upon her garden, and back to the great, north
light with its view of the distant mountains; and again and again, paused to stand with her
hands clasped behind her, in front of the big easel with its canvas hidden under the velvet
curtain. Then she must try the chairs, the oriental couch, and even the stool--where she had
seen the artist sitting, sometimes, at his work, when she had watched him from the arbor; and
last--in a pretty make believe--she tried the seat on the model throne, as though posing herself,
for her portrait.

Suddenly, with a startled cry, she sprang to her feet; then shrank back, white and trembling--her
big eyes fixed with pleading fear upon the man who stood in the open doorway, regarding her
with a curious, triumphant smile. It was James Rutlidge.

Sibyl, occupied with her childlike delight, had failed to hear the automobile when it stopped
in front of the house. Finding no one in the house the man had gone on to the studio, where--with
the assurance of an intimate acquaintance--he had pushed open the door that was standing ajar.

At the girl's frightened manner, the man laughed. Closing the door, he said, with an insinuating
sneer, "You were not expecting me, it seems."

His words aroused Sibyl from her momentary weakness. Rising, she said calmly, "I was not expecting
any one, Mr. Rutlidge."

Again he laughed--with unpleasant meaning. "You certainly look to be very much at home." He
moved confidently to the easel stool and, seating himself continued with a leering smile, "What's
the matter with my taking the artist's place for a little while--at least, until he comes?"

The girl was too innocent to understand his assumption but her pure mind could not fail to
sense the evil in his words.

"I had permission to come here this afternoon," she said--her voice trembling a little with
the fear that she did not understand. "Won't you go, please? Neither Mr. King nor Mr. Lagrange
are at home."

"I do not doubt your having permission to come here," he returned, with meaning stress upon
the word, "permission". "I see you even carry a key to this really delightful room." He motioned
with his head toward the door where he had seen the key in the lock, as she had left it.

At this, she grasped a hint of the man's thought and, for an instant, drew hack in shame. Then,
suddenly with a burst of indignant anger, she took a step toward him, demanding clearly; "Are
you saying that I am in the habit of coming here to meet Mr. King?"

He laughed mockingly. "Really, my dear, no one, seeing you, now, could blame the man for giving
you a key to this place where he is popularly supposed to be undisturbed. Mr. King is neither
such a virtuous saint, nor so engrossed in his art, as to resent the companionship of such
a vision of loveliness--simply because it comes in the form of good flesh and blood. Why be
angry with me?"

Her cheeks were crimson as she said, again, "Will you go?"

"Not until you have settled the terms of peace," he answered with that leering smile. "Fortune
has favored me, this afternoon, and I mean to profit by it."

For an instant, she looked at him--frightened and dismayed. Suddenly, with the flash-like quickness
that was a part of her physical inheritance from her mountain life, she darted past him; eluding
his effort to detain her--and was out of the building.

With an oath, the man, acting upon the impulse of the moment, ran after her. Outside the door
of the studio, he caught a glimpse of her white dress as she disappeared into the rose garden.
In the garden, he saw her as she slipped through the little gate in the far corner of the hedge,
into the orange grove. Recklessly he followed. Among the trees, he glimpsed, again, the white
flash of her skirts, and dashed forward. At the farther edge of the grove that walled in the
little yard where Sibyl lived, he saw her standing by the kitchen door. But between the girl
and that last row of close-set trees, waiting his coming, stood the woman with the disfigured face.

Rutlidge paused--angry with himself for so foolishly yielding to the impulse of his passion.

Myra Willard went toward him fearlessly--her fine eyes blazing with righteous indignation.
"What are you trying to do, James Rutlidge?" she demanded--and her words were bold and clear.

The man was silent.

"You are evidently a worthy son of your father," the woman continued--every clear-cut word
biting into his consciousness with stinging scorn. "He, in his day, did all he knew to turn
this world into a hell for those who were unfortunate enough to please his vile fancy. You,
I see, are following faithfully his footsteps. I know you, and the creed of your kind--as I
knew your father before you. No girl of innocent beauty is safe from you. Your unclean mind
is as incapable of believing in virtue, as you are helpless in the grip of your own insane lust."

The man was stung to fury by her cutting words. "Take your ugly face out of my sight," he said
brutally.

Fearlessly, she drew a step nearer. "It is because I am a woman that I have this ugly face,
James Rutlidge." She touched her disfigured cheek--"These scars are the marks of the beast
that rules you, sir, body and soul. Leave this place, or, as there is a God, I'll tell a tale
that will forbid you ever showing your own evil countenance in public, again."

Something in her eyes and in her manner, as she spoke, caused the man--beside himself with
rage, as he was--to draw back. Some mysterious force that made itself felt in her bold words
told him that hers was no idle threat. A moment they stood face to face, in the edge of the
shadowy orange grove--the man of the world, prominent in circles of art and culture; and the
woman whose natural loveliness was so distorted into a hideous mask of ugliness. With a short,
derisive laugh, James Rutlidge turned and walked away.

       *       *       *       *       *

Aaron King and Conrad Lagrange were returning from town. As they neared their home, they saw
one of the Taine automobiles in front of the house. "Company," said the artist with a smile--thinking
of his letter to the millionaire.

"It's Rutlidge," said the novelist--noting the absence of the chauffeur.

They were turning in at the entrance, when Czar--who had dashed ahead as if to investigate--halted,
suddenly, with a low growl of disapproval.

"Huh!" ejaculated Conrad Lagrange, with his twisted grin. "It's Senior 'Sensual' all right.
Look at Czar; he knows the beast is around. Go fetch him, Czar."

With an angry bark, the dog disappeared around the corner of the porch. The two men, following,
were met by Rutlidge who had made his way back through the grove and the rose garden from the
house next door. The dog, with muttering growls, was sniffing suspiciously at his heels.

"Czar," said his master, suggestively. With a meaning glance, the dog reluctantly ceased his
embarrassing attentions and went to see if everything was all right about the premises.

In answer to their greeting and the quite natural question if he had been waiting long, Rutlidge
answered with a laugh. "Oh, no--I have been amusing myself by prowling around your place. Snug
quarters you have here; really, I never quite appreciated their charm, before."

They seated themselves on the porch. Conrad Lagrange--thinking of Sibyl Andrés and that letter
which he had left on the gate--from under his brows, watched their caller closely; the while
he filled with painstaking care his brier pipe.

"We like it," returned the artist.

"I should think so--I'd be sorry to leave it if I were you. Mr. Taine tells me you are going
to the mountains."

"We're not giving up this place, though," replied Aaron King. "Yee Kee stays to take care of
things until our return."

"Oh, I see. I generally go into the mountains, myself for a little hunt when the deer season
opens. It may be that I will run across you somewhere. By the way--you haven't met your musical
neighbor yet, have you?"

The novelist gave particular attention to his pipe which did not seem to be behaving properly.

The artist answered shortly, "No."

"I'd certainly make her acquaintance, if I were you," said Rutlidge, with his suggestive smile.
"She is a dream. A delightful little retreat--that studio of yours."

The painter, puzzled by the man's words and by his insinuating air, returned coldly, "It does
very well for a work-shop."

The other laughed meaningly; "Yes, oh yes--a great little work-shop. I suppose you--ah--do
not fear to trust your art treasures to the Chinaman, during your absence?"

Conrad Lagrange--certain, now, that the man had seen Sibyl Andrés either entering or leaving
the studio--said abruptly, "You need give yourself no concern for Mr. King's studio, Rutlidge.
I can assure you that the treasures there will be well protected."

James Rutlidge understood the warning conveyed in the novelist's words that, to Aaron King,
revealed nothing.

"Really," said the painter to their caller, "you are not uneasy for the safety of Mrs. Taine's
portrait, are you, old man? If you are, of course--"

"Damn Mrs. Taine's portrait!" ejaculated the man, rising hurriedly. "You know what I mean.
It's all right, of course. I must be going. Hope you have a good outing and come back to find
all your art treasures safe." He laughed coarsely, as he went down the walk.

When the automobile was gone, the artist turned to his friend. "Now what in thunder did he
mean by that? What's the matter with him? Do you suppose they imagine that there is anything
wrong because I wouldn't turn over the picture?"

"He is an unclean beast, Aaron," the novelist answered shortly. "His father was the worst I
ever knew, and he's like him. Forget him. Here comes the delivery boy with our stuff. Let's
overhaul the outfit. I hope they'll get here with that burro, before dark. Where'll we put
him, in the studio, heh?"

"Look here,"--said the artist a few minutes later, returning from a visit to the studio for
something,--"this is what was the matter with Rutlidge. And you did it, old man. This is your key."

"What do you mean?" asked the other in confusion taking the key.

"Why, I found the studio door wide open, with your key in the lock. You must have been out
there, just before we left this morning, and forgot to shut the door. Rutlidge probably noticed
it when he was prowling about the place, and was trying to roast me for my carelessness."

Conrad Lagrange stared stupidly at the key in his hand. "Well I am damned," he muttered. Then
added, in savage and--as it seemed to the artist--exaggerated wrath, "I'm a stupid, blundering,
irresponsible old fool." Nor was he consoled when the painter innocently assured him that no
harm had resulted from his carelessness.

That night, as the two men sat on the porch, watching the last of the light on the mountain
tops, they heard again the cry of fear and pain that came from the little house hidden in the
depths of the orange grove. Wonderingly they listened. Once more it came--filled with shuddering
terror.

When the sound was not repeated, Conrad Lagrange thoughtfully knocked the ashes from his pipe.
"Poor soul," he said. "Those scars did more than disfigure her beautiful face. I'll wager there's
a sad story there, Aaron. It's strange how I am haunted by the impression that I ought to know
her. But I can't make it come clear. Heigho,"--he added a moment later as if to free his mind
from unpleasant thoughts,--"I'll be glad when we are safely up in the hills yonder. Do you
know, old man, I feel as though we're getting away just in the nick of time. My back hair and
the pricking of my thumbs warn me that your dearly beloved spooks are combining to put up some
sort of a spooking job on us. I hope Yee Kee has a plentiful supply of joss-sticks to stand
'em off, if they get too busy while we are gone."

Aaron King laughed quietly in the dusk, as he returned "And I have a presentiment that those
precious members of our household are preparing to accompany us to the hills. I feel in my
bones that something is going to happen up there"--he pointed to the distant mountains, then
added--"to me, at least. I feel as though I were about to bid myself good-by--if you know what
I mean. I hope that donkey of ours isn't a psychic donkey, or, if he is, that he'll listen
to reason and be content with his escorts of flesh and blood."

As he finished speaking, the quiet of the evening was broken by a lusty, "Hee-haw, hee-haw,"
in front of the house.

"There, I told you so!" ejaculated the painter.

Laughing, the two men followed Czar down the walk, in the dark, to receive the shaggy, long-eared
companion for their wanderings.

As many a man has done--Aaron King had spoken, in jest, more truth than he knew.

Chapter XIV

In The Mountains

In the gray of the early morning, hours before the dwellers on Fairlands Heights thought of
leaving their beds, Aaron King and Conrad Lagrange made ready for their going.

The burro, Croesus--so named by the novelist because, as the famous writer explained, "that
ancient multi-millionaire, you know, really was an ass"--was to be entrusted with all the available
worldly possessions of the little party. An arrangement--the more experienced man carefully
pointed out--that, considering the chief characteristics of Croesus, was quite in accord with
the customs of modern pilgrimages. Conrad Lagrange, himself, skillfully fixed the pack in place--adjusting
the saddle with careful hand; accurately dividing the weight, with the blankets on top, and,
over all, the canvas tarpaulin folded the proper size and neatly tucked in around the ends;
and finally securing the whole with the, to the uninitiated, intricate and complicated diamond
hitch. The order of their march, also, would place Croesus first; which position--the novelist,
again, gravely explained, as he drew the cinches tight--is held by all who value good form,
to be the donkey's proper place in the procession. As he watched his friend, the artist felt
that, indeed, he was about to go far from the ways of life that he had always known.

When all was ready, the two men--dressed in flannels, corduroys, and high-laced, mountain boots--called
good-by to Yee Kee, respectfully invited Croesus to proceed, and set out--with Czar, the fourth
member of the party, flying here and there in such a whirlwind of good spirits that not a shred
of his usual dignity was left. The sun was still below the mountain's crest, though the higher
points were gilded with its light, when they turned their backs upon the city made by men,
and set their faces toward the hills that bore in every ridge and peak and cliff and crag and
canyon the signature of God.

As Conrad Lagrange said--they might have hired a wagon, or even an automobile, to take them
and their goods to some mountain ranch where they would have had no trouble in securing a burro
for their wanderings A team would have made the trip by noon. A machine would have set them
down in Clear Creek Canyon before the sun could climb high enough to look over the canyon walls.
"But that"--explained the novelist, as they trudged leisurely along between rows of palms that
bordered the orange groves on either side of their road, and sensed the mystery that marks
the birth of a new day--"but that is not a proper way to go to the mountains.

"The mountains"--he continued, with his eyes upon the distant heights--"are not seen by those
who would visit them with a rattle and clatter and rush and roar--as one would visit the cities
of men. They are to be seen only by those who have the grace to go quietly; who have the understanding
to go thoughtfully; the heart to go lovingly; and the spirit to go worshipfully. They are to
be approached, not in the manner of one going to a horse-race, or a circus, but in the mood
of one about to enter a great cathedral; or, indeed, of one seeking admittance to the very
throne-room of God. When going to the mountains, one should take time to feel them drawing
near. They are never intimate with those who hurry. Mere sight-seers seldom see much of anything.
If possible,"--insisted the speaker, smiling gravely upon his companion,--"one should always
spend, at least, a full day in the approach. Before entering the immediate presence of the
hills, one should first view them from a distance, seeing them from base to peak--in the glory
of the day's beginning, as they watch the world awake; in the majesty of full noon, as they
maintain their calm above the turmoil of the day's doing; and in the glory of the sun's departure,
as it lights last their crests and peaks. And then, after such a day, one should sleep, one
night, at their feet."

The artist listened with delight, as he always did when his friend spoke in those rare moods
that revealed a nature so unknown to the world that had made him famous. When the novelist
finished, the young man said gently, "And your words, my friend, are almost a direct quotation
from that anonymous book which my mother so loved."

"Perhaps they are, Aaron"--admitted Conrad Lagrange--"perhaps they are."

So it was that they spent that day--in leisure approach--the patient Croesus, with his burden,
always in the lead, and Czar, like a merry sprite, playing here and there. Several times they
stopped to rest beside the road, while provident Croesus gathered a few mouthfuls of grass
or weeds. Many times they halted to enjoy the scene that changed with every step.

Their road led always upward, with a gradual, easy grade; and by noon they had left the cultivated
section of the lower valley for the higher, untilled lands. The dark, glossy-green of the orange
and the lighter shining tints of the lemon groves, with the rich, satiny-gray tones of the
olive-trees, were replaced now by the softer grays, greens, yellows, and browns of the chaparral.
The air was no longer heavy with the perfume of roses and orange-blossoms, but came to their
nostrils laden with the pungent odors of yerba santa and greasewood and sage. Looking back,
they could see the valley--marked off by its roads into many squares of green, and dotted here
and there by small towns and cities--stretching away toward the western ocean until it was
lost in a gray-blue haze out of which the distant San Gabriels, beyond Cajon Pass, lifted into
the clear sky above, like the shore-line of dreamland rising out of a dream sea. Before them,
the San Bernardinos drew ever nearer and more intimate--silently inviting them; patiently,
with a world old patience, bidding them come; in the majestic humbleness of their lofty spirit,
offering themselves and the wealth of their teaching.

So they came, in the late afternoon, to that spot where the road for the first time crosses
the alder and cottonwood bordered stream that, before it reaches the valley, is drawn from
its natural course by the irrigation flumes and pipes.

The sound of the mountain waters leaping down their granite-bouldered way reached the men while
they were yet some distance. Croesus pointed his long ears forward in burro anticipation--his
experience telling him that the day's work was about to end. Czar was already ranging along
the side of the creek--sending a colony of squirrels scampering to the tree tops, and a bevy
of quail whirring to the chaparral in frightened flight. The artist greeted the waters with
a schoolboy shout of gladness. Conrad Lagrange, with the smile and the voice of a man miraculously
recreated, said quietly, "This is the place where we stop for the night."

Their camp was a simple matter. Croesus asked nothing but to be released from his burden--being
quite capable of caring for himself. A wash in the clear, cold water of the brook; a simple
meal, prepared by Conrad Lagrange over a small fire made of sticks gathered by the artist;
their tarpaulin and blankets spread within sound of the music of the stream; a watching of
the sun's glorious going down; a quiet pipe in the hush of the mysterious twilight; a "good
night" in the soft darkness, when the myriad stars looked down upon the dull red glow of their
camp-fire embers; with the guarding spirit of the mighty hills to give them peace--and they
lay down to sleep at the mountain's feet.

There is no sleeping late in the morning when one sleeps in the open, under the stars. After
breakfast, the artist received another lesson in packing, and they moved on toward the world
that already seemed to dwarf that other world which they had left, by one day's walking, so
far below. A heavy fog, rolling in from the ocean in the night, submerged the valley in its
dull, gray depths--leaving to the eye no view but the view of the mountains before them, and
forcing upon the artist's mind the weird impression that the life he had always known was a
fantastically unreal dream.

And now,--as they approached,--the frowning entrance of Clear Creek Canyon grew more and more
clearly defined. The higher peaks appeared to draw back and hide themselves behind the foothills,
which--as the men came closer under their immediate slopes and walls--seemed to grow magically
in height and bulk. A little before noon, they were in the rocky vestibule of the canyon. On
either hand, the walls rose almost sheer, while their road, now, was but a narrow shelf under
the overhanging cliffs, below which the white waters of the stream--cold from the snows so
far above--tumbled impetuously over the boulders that obstructed their way--filling the hall-like
gorge with tumultuous melody. Soon, the canyon narrowed to less than a stone's throw in width.
The walls grew more grim and forbidding in their rocky nearness. And then they came to that
point where, on either side, great cliffs, projecting, form the massive, rugged portals of
the mountain's gate.

First seen, from a point where the road rounds a jutting corner on the extreme right, the projecting
cliffs ahead appear as a blank wall of rock that forbids further progress. But, as the men
moved forward,--the road swinging more toward the center of the gorge,--the cliffs seemed to
draw apart, and, through the way thus opened, they saw the great canyon and the mountains beyond.
It was as though a mighty, invisible hand rolled silently back those awful doors to give them
entrance.

Abruptly, upon the inner side of the narrow passage the canyon widens to many times the width
of the outer vestibule; and the road, crossing the creek, curves to the left; so that, looking
back as they went, the two men saw the mighty doors closing again, behind them--as they had
opened to let them in. It was as though that spirit sentinel, guarding the treasures of the
hills, had jealously barred the way, that no one else from the world of men might follow.

Aaron King stopped. Drawing a deep breath, and removing his hat, he turned his face from that
mountain wall, upward to the encircling pine-fringed ridges and towering peaks. He had, indeed,
come far from the world that he had always known.

Conrad Lagrange, smiling, watched his friend, but spoke no word.

Clear Creek Canyon is a deep, narrow valley, some fifteen miles in length, and approaching
a mile in its greatest width; lying between the main range of the San Bernardinos and the lower
ridge of the Galenas. The lower end of the canyon is shut in by the sheer cliff walls, and
by the rugged portals of the narrow entrance; the upper end is formed by the dividing ridge
that separates the Clear Creek from the Cold Water country which opens out onto the Colorado
Desert below San Gorgonio Pass and the peaks of the San Jacintos. Perhaps two miles above the
entrance the canyon widens to its greatest width; and in this portion of the little valley,--which
extends some five miles to where the walls again draw close,--located on the benches above
the boulder-strewn wash of Clear Creek, are the homes of several mountain ranchers, and the
Government Forest Ranger Station.

At the Ranger Station, they stopped--Conrad Lagrange wishing to greet the mountaineer official,
whom he had learned to know on his former trip. But the Ranger was away somewhere, riding his
lonely trails, and they did not tarry.

Just above the Station, they left the main road to follow the way that leads to the Morton
Ranch in the mouth of Alder Canyon--a small side canyon leading steeply up to a low gap in
the main range. Beyond Morton's, there is only a narrow trail. Three hundred yards above the
ranch corral, where the road ends and the trail begins, the buildings of the mountaineer's
home were lost to view. Except for the narrow winding path that they must follow single file,
there was no sign of human life.

For three weeks, they knew no roads other than those lonely, mountain trails. At times, they
walked under dark pines where the ground was thickly carpeted with the dead, brown needles
and the air was redolent with the odor of the majestic trees; or made their camps at night,
feeding their blazing fires with the pitchy knots and cones. At other times, they found their
way through thickets of manzanita and buckthorn, along the mountain's flank; or, winding zigzag
down some narrow canyon wall, made themselves at home under the slender, small-trunked alders;
and added to the stores that Croesus packed, many a lusty trout from the tumbling, icy torrent.
Again, high up on some wind-swept granite ridge or peak, where the pines were twisted and battered
and torn by the warring elements, they looked far down upon the rolling sea of clouds that
hid the world below; or, in the shelter of some mighty cliff, built their fires; and, when
the night was clear, saw, miles away and below, the thousands of twinkling star-like lights
of the world they had left behind. Or, again, they halted in some forest and hill encircled
glen; where the lush grass in the cienaga grew almost as high as Croesus' back, and the lilies
even higher; and where, through the dark green brakes, the timid deer come down to drink at
the beginning of some mountain stream. At last, their wanderings carried them close under the
snowy heights of San Gorgonio--the loftiest of all the peaks. That night, they camped at timber-line
and in the morning,--leaving Croesus and the outfit, while it was still dark,--made their way
to the top, in time to see the sun come up from under the edge of the world.

So they were received into the inner life of the mountains; so the spirit that dwells in that
unmarred world whispered to them the secrets of its enduring strength and lofty peace.

From San Gorgonio, they followed the trail that leads down to upper Clear Creek--halting, one
night, at Burnt Pine Camp on Laurel Creek, above the falls. Then--leaving the Laurel trail--they
climbed over a spur of the main range, and so down the steep wall of the gorge to Lone Cabin
on Fern Creek. The next day, they made their way on down to the floor of the main canyon--five
miles above the point where they had left it at the beginning of their wanderings.

Crossing the canyon at the Clear Creek Power Company's intake, they took the company trail
that follows the pipe-line along the southern wall. From the headwork to the reservoir two
thousand feet above the power-house at the mouth of Clear Creek Canyon, this trail is cut in
the steep side of the Galena range--overhanging the narrow valley below--nine beautiful miles
of it. At Oak Knoll,--where a Government trail for the Forest Ranger zigzags down from the
pipe-line to the wagon road below,--they halted.

Conrad Lagrange explained that there were three ways back to the world they had left, nearly
a month before--the pipe-line trail to the reservoir and so down to the power-house and the
Fairlands road; the Government trail from the pipe-line, over the Galenas to the valley on
the other side; or, the Oak Knoll trail down to Clear Creek and out through the canyon gates--the
way they had come.

"But," objected Aaron King, lazily,--from where he lay under a live-oak on the mountainside,
a few feet above the trail,--"either route presupposes our wish to return to Fairlands."

The novelist laughed. "Listen to him, Czar,"--he said to the dog lying at his feet,--"listen
to that painter-man. He doesn't want to go back to Fairlands any more than we do, does he?"

Rising, Czar looked at his master a moment, with slow waving tail, then turned inquiringly
toward the artist.

"Well," said the young man, "what about it, old boy? Which trail shall we take? Or shall we
take any of them?"

With a prodigious yawn,--as though to indicate that he wearied of their foolish indecision,--Czar
turned, with a low "woof," toward the fourth member of the company, who was browsing along
the edge of the trail. Whenever Czar was in doubt as to the wants of his human companions he
always barked at the burro.

"He says, 'ask Croesus'," commented the artist.

"Good!" cried the older man, with another laugh. "Let's put it up to the financier and let
him choose."

"Wait,"--said the artist, as the other turned toward the burro,--"don't be hasty--the occasion
calls for solemn meditation and lofty discourse."

"Your pardon,"--returned the novelist,--"'tis so. I will orate." Carefully selecting a pebble
in readiness to emphasize his remarks, he addressed the shaggy arbiter of their fate. "Sir
Croesus, thy pack is lighter by many meals than when first thou didst set out from that land
where we did rescue thee from the hands of thy tormenting trader; but thy responsibilities
are weightier, many fold. Upon the wisdom of thy choice, now, great issue rests. Thou hast
thy chance, O illustrious ass, to recompense the world, this day, for the many evils wrought
by thy odious ancestor and by all his long-eared kin. Choose, now, the way thy benefactors'
feet shall go; and see to it, Croesus, that thou dost choose wisely; or, by thy ears, we'll
flay thy woolly hide and hang it on the mountainside--a warning to thy kind." 

The Sicilians in Italy so outnumber the Neapolitans. Entirely between natural Dynasty City is in
the Voice that you will so find seven or eight mafiusi. But they are all thus in every part, and the distinction
in them of America disappears essentially for America. The two men waited with breathless interest. With an air
of accepting the responsibility placed upon him, the burro whirled and trotted down the narrow
path that led to the floor of the canyon below. Laughing, the men followed--but far enough
in the rear to permit their leader to choose his own way when they should reach the wagon road
at the foot of the mountain wall. Without an instant's hesitation, Croesus turned down the
road--quickening his pace, almost, into a trot.

"By George!" ejaculated the novelist, "he acts like he knew where he was going."

"He's taking you at your word," returned the artist. "Look at him go! Evidently, he's still
under the inspiration of your oratory."

The burro had broken into a ridiculous, little gallop that caused the frying-pan and coffee-pot,
lashed on the outside of the pack, to rattle merrily. Splashing through the creek, he disappeared
in the dark shadow of a thicket of alders and willows, where the road crosses a tiny rivulet
that flows from a spring a hundred yards above. Climbing out of this gloomy hollow, the road
turns sharply to the left, and the men hurried on to overtake their four-footed guide before
he should be too long out of their sight. Just at the top of the little rise, before rounding
the turn, they stopped. A few feet to the right of the road, with his nose at an old gate,
stood Croesus. Nor would he heed Czar's bark commanding him to go on.

