Phoebe stood by one of the duck-ponds, a long pole in her hand, and a helpless expression in
that doughlike countenance of hers, where aimless contours and features unite to make a kind
of facial blur.  (What does the carrier see in it?)  The pole was not long enough to reach
the ducks, and Phoebe's method lacked spirit and adroitness, so that it was natural, perhaps,
that they refused to leave the water, the evening being warm, with an uncommon fine sunset.

{They . . . waddle under the wrong fence: p22.jpg}

I saw the situation at once and ran to meet it with a glow of interest and anticipation.  If
there is anything in the world I enjoy, it is making somebody do something that he doesn't
want to do; and if, when victory perches upon my banner, the somebody can be brought to say
that he ought to have done it without my making him, that adds the unforgettable touch to pleasure,
though seldom, alas! does it happen. Then ensued the delightful and stimulating hour that has
now become a feature of the day; an hour in which the remembrance of the table-d'hote dinner
at the Hydro, going on at identically the same time, only stirs me to a keener joy and gratitude.

{Honking and hissing like a bewildered orchestra: p23.jpg}

{Harried and pecked by the big geese: p24.jpg}

The ducks swim round in circles, hide under the willows, and attempt to creep into the rat-holes
in the banks, a stupidity so crass that it merits instant death, which it somehow always escapes.
Then they come out in couples and waddle under the wrong fence into the lower meadow, fly madly
under the tool-house, pitch blindly in with the sitting hens, and out again in short order,
all the time quacking and squawking, honking and hissing like a bewildered orchestra.  By dint
of splashing the water with poles, throwing pebbles, beating the shrubs at the pond's edges,
"shooing" frantically with our skirts, crawling beneath bars to head them off, and prodding
them from under bushes to urge them on, we finally get the older ones out of the water and
the younger ones into some sort of relation to their various retreats; but, owing to their
lack of geography, hatred of home, and general recalcitrancy, they none of them turn up in
the right place and have to be sorted out.  We uncover the top of the little house, or the
enclosure as it may be, or reach in at the door, and, seizing the struggling victim, drag him
forth and take him where he should have had the wit to go in the first instance.  The weak
ones get in with the strong and are in danger of being trampled; two May goslings that look
almost full-grown have run into a house with a brood of ducklings a week old.  There are twenty-seven
crowded into one coop, five in another, nineteen in another; the gosling with one leg has to
come out, and the duckling threatened with the gapes; their place is with the "invaleeds,"
as Phoebe calls them, but they never learn the location of the hospital, nor have the slightest
scruple about spreading contagious diseases.

{In solitary splendour: p25.jpg}

Finally, when we have separated and sorted exhaustively, an operation in which Phoebe shows
a delicacy of discrimination and a fearlessness of attack amounting to genius, we count the
entire number and find several missing.  Searching for their animate or inanimate bodies, we
"scoop" one from under the tool-house, chance upon two more who are being harried and pecked
by the big geese in the lower meadow, and discover one sailing by himself in solitary splendour
in the middle of the deserted pond, a look of evil triumph in his bead-like eye.  Still we
lack one young duckling, and he at length is found dead by the hedge.  A rat has evidently
seized him and choked him at a single throttle, but in such haste that he has not had time
to carry away the tiny body.

"Poor think!" says Phoebe tearfully; "it looks as if it was 'it with some kind of a wepping.
I don't know whatever to do with the rats, they're gettin' that fearocious!"

Before I was admitted into daily contact with the living goose (my previous intercourse with
him having been carried on when gravy and stuffing obscured his true personality), I thought
him a very Dreyfus among fowls, a sorely slandered bird, to whom justice had never been done;
for even the gentle Darwin is hard upon him.  My opinion is undergoing some slight modifications,
but I withhold judgment at present, hoping that some of the follies, faults, vagaries, and
limitations that I observe in Phoebe's geese may be due to Phoebe's educational methods, which
were, before my advent, those of the darkest ages.

CHAPTER IV

{Dryshod warnings which are never heeded: p27.jpg}

July 9th. 

If we could almost see that image or picture through a microscope, we might see the moons as just as we see Jupiter
himself with a eye. "" why won't our microscope do?

"asked parson.

The Walter said we couldn't get a image and the microscope together rightly; but while he was explaining,
he was plainly unrolling the paper, out of which came the other bulging glass only as round as a
boy's eye. The edges of this had been ground down so that it would go
into the end of the little tube, and it was fastened in also as the
big was, only another slits needed with be the small longer, because
the glass was thicker. This was a one-inch eyeglass; that is, it
must be an inch from the object or image at which you are looking.  What will happen to Thornycroft if we develop a New Hen and a
New Cow, my imagination fails to conceive.  There does not seem to be the slightest danger
for the moment, however, and our hens lay and sit and sit and lay as if laying and sitting
were the twin purposes of life.

{The mother goes off to bed: p28.jpg}

The nature of the hen seems to broaden with the duties of maternity, but I think myself that
we presume a little upon her amiability and natural motherliness.  It is one thing to desire
a family of one's own, to lay eggs with that idea in view, to sit upon them three long weeks
and hatch out and bring up a nice brood of chicks.  It must be quite another to have one's
eggs abstracted day by day and eaten by a callous public, the nest filled with deceitful substitutes,
and at the end of a dull and weary period of hatching to bring into the world another person's
children--children, too, of the wrong size, the wrong kind of bills and feet, and, still more
subtle grievance, the wrong kind of instincts, leading them to a dangerous aquatic career,
one which the mother may not enter to guide, guard, and teach; one on the brink of which she
must ever stand, uttering dryshod warnings which are never heeded.  They grow used to this
strange order of things after a bit, it is true, and are less anxious and excited.  When the
duck-brood returns safely again and again from what the hen-mother thinks will prove a watery
grave, she becomes accustomed to the situation, I suppose.  I find that at night she stands
by the pond for what she considers a decent, self-respecting length of time, calling the ducklings
out of the water; then, if they refuse to come, the mother goes off to bed and leaves them
to Providence, or Phoebe.

{Cornelia and the web-footed Gracchi: p29.jpg}

The brown hen that we have named Cornelia is the best mother, the one who waits longest and
most patiently for the web-footed Gracchi to finish their swim.

When a chick is taken out of the incubytor (as Phoebe calls it) and refused by all the other
hens, Cornelia generally accepts it, though she had twelve of her own when we began using her
as an orphan asylum.  "Wings are made to stretch," she seems to say cheerfully, and with a
kind glance of her round eye she welcomes the wanderer and the outcast.  She even tended for
a time the offspring of an absent-minded, light-headed pheasant who flew over a four-foot wall
and left her young behind her to starve; it was not a New Pheasant, either; for the most conservative
and old-fashioned of her tribe occasionally commits domestic solecisms of this sort.

{An orphan asylum: p30.jpg}

There is no telling when, where, or how the maternal instinct will assert itself.  Among our
Thornycroft cats is a certain Mrs. Greyskin.  She had not been seen for many days, and Mrs.
Heaven concluded that she had hidden herself somewhere with a family of kittens; but as the
supply of that article with us more than equals the demand, we had not searched for her with
especial zeal.

{Phoebe and I followed her stealthily: p31.jpg}

The other day Mrs. Greyskin appeared at the dairy door, and when she had been fed Phoebe and
I followed her stealthily, from a distance.  She walked slowly about as if her mind were quite
free from harassing care, and finally approached a deserted cow-house where there was a great
mound of straw.  At this moment she caught sight of us and turned in another direction to throw
us off the scent.  We persevered in our intention of going into her probable retreat, and were
cautiously looking for some sign of life in the haymow, when we heard a soft cackle and a ruffling
of plumage.  Coming closer to the sound we saw a black hen brooding a nest, her bright bead
eyes turning nervously from side to side; and, coaxed out from her protecting wings by youthful
curiosity, came four kittens, eyes wide open, warm, happy, ready for sport!

The sight was irresistible, and Phoebe ran for Mr. and Mrs. Heaven and the Square Baby.  Mother
Hen was not to be embarrassed or daunted, even if her most sacred feelings were regarded in
the light of a cheap entertainment.  She held her ground while one of the kits slid up and
down her glossy back, and two others, more timid, crept underneath her breast, only daring
to put out their pink noses!  We retired then for very shame and met Mrs. Greyskin in the doorway.
This should have thickened the plot, but there is apparently no rivalry nor animosity between
the co-mothers.  We watch them every day now, through a window in the roof.  Mother Greyskin
visits the kittens frequently, lies down beside the home nest, and gives them their dinner.
While this is going on Mother Blackwing goes modestly away for a bite, a sup, and a little
exercise, returning to the kittens when the cat leaves them.  It is pretty to see her settle
down over the four, fat, furry dumplings, and they seem to know no difference in warmth or
comfort, whichever mother is brooding them; while, as their eyes have been open for a week,
it can no longer be called a blind error on their part.

{Coaxed out . . . by youthful curiosity: p33.jpg}

When we have closed all our small hen-nurseries for the night, there is still the large house
inhabited by the thirty-two full-grown chickens which Phoebe calls the broilers.  I cannot
endure the term, and will not use it.  "Now for the April chicks," I say every evening.

"Do you mean the broilers?" asks Phoebe.

"I mean the big April chicks," say I.

"Yes, them are the broilers," says she.

But is it not disagreeable enough to be a broiler when one's time comes, without having the
gridiron waved in one's face for weeks beforehand?

{Nine huddle together: p34.jpg}

The April chicks are all lively and desirous of seeing the world as thoroughly as possible
before going to roost or broil.  As a general thing, we find in the large house sixteen young
fowls of the contemplative, flavourless, resigned-to-the-inevitable variety; three more (the
same three every night) perch on the roof and are driven down; four (always the same four)
cling to the edge of the open door, waiting to fly off, but not in, when you attempt to close
it; nine huddle together on a place in the grass about forty feet distant, where a small coop
formerly stood in the prehistoric ages.  This small coop was one in which they lodged for a
fortnight when they were younger, and when those absolutely indelible impressions are formed
of which we read in educational maxims.  It was taken away long since, but the nine loyal (or
stupid) Casabiancas cling to the sacred spot where its foundations rested; they accordingly
have to be caught and deposited bodily in the house, and this requires strategy, as they note
our approach from a considerable distance.

{Of a wandering mind: p35.jpg}

Finally all are housed but two, the little white cock and the black pullet, who are still impish
and of a wandering mind.  Though headed off in every direction, they fly into the hedges and
hide in the underbrush. We beat the hedge on the other side, but with no avail.  We dive into
the thicket of wild roses, sweetbrier, and thistles on our hands and knees, coming out with
tangled hair, scratched noses, and no hens.  Then, when all has been done that human ingenuity
can suggest, Phoebe goes to her late supper and I do sentry-work.  I stroll to a safe distance,
and, sitting on one of the rat-proof boxes, watch the bushes with an eagle eye.  Five minutes
go by, ten, fifteen; and then out steps the white cock, stealthily tiptoeing toward the home
into which he refused to go at our instigation.  In a moment out creeps the obstinate little
beast of a black pullet from the opposite clump.  The wayward pair meet at their own door,
which I have left open a few inches.  When all is still I walk gently down the field, and,
warned by previous experiences, approach the house from behind.  I draw the door to softly
and quickly; but not so quickly that the evil-minded and suspicious black pullet hasn't time
to spring out, with a make-believe squawk of fright--that induces three other blameless chickens
to fly down from their perches and set the whole flock in a flutter.  Then I fall from grace
and call her a Broiler; and when, after some minutes of hot pursuit, I catch her by falling
over her in the corner by the goose-pen, I address her as a fat, juicy Broiler with parsley
butter and a bit of bacon.

{With tangled hair, scratched noses, and no hens: p36.jpg}

CHAPTER V

July 10th.

At ten thirty or so in the morning the cackling begins.  I wonder exactly what it means!  Have
the forest-lovers who listen so respectfully to, and interpret so exquisitely, the notes of
birds--have none of them made psychological investigations of the hen cackle?  Can it be simple
elation?  One could believe that of the first few eggs, but a hen who has laid two or three
hundred can hardly feel the same exuberant pride and joy daily.  Can it be the excitement incident
to successful achievement? Hardly, because the task is so extremely simple.  Eggs are more
or less alike; a little larger or smaller, a trifle whiter or browner; and almost sure to be
quite right as to details; that is, the big end never gets confused with the little end, they
are always ovoid and never spherical, and the yolk is always inside of the white.  As for a
soft-shelled egg, it is so rare an occurrence that the fear of laying one could not set the
whole race of hens in a panic; so there really cannot be any intellectual or emotional agitation
in producing a thing that might be made by a machine.  Can it be simply "fussiness"; since
the people who have the least to do commonly make the most flutter about doing it?

Perhaps it is merely conversation.  "Cut-cut-cut-cut-cut-DAHcut! . . . I have finished my strictly
fresh egg, have you laid yours?  Make haste, then, for the cock has found a gap in the wire-fence
and wants us to wander in the strawberry-bed. . . . Cut-cut-cut-cut-cut-DAHcut . . . Every
moment is precious, for the Goose Girl will find us, when she gathers the strawberries for
her luncheon . . . Cut-cut-cut-cut!  On the way out we can find sweet places to steal nests
. . . Cut-cut-cut! . . . I am so glad I am not sitting this heavenly morning; it is a dull life."

A Lancashire poultryman drifted into Barbury Green yesterday.  He is an old acquaintance of
Mr. Heaven, and spent the night and part of the next day at Thornycroft Farm.  He possessed
a deal of fowl philosophy, and tells many a good hen story, which, like fish stories, draw
rather largely on the credulity of the audience.  We were sitting in the rickyard talking comfortably
about laying and cackling and kindred matters when he took his pipe from his mouth and told
us the following tale--not a bad one if you can translate the dialect:--

'Aw were once towd as, if yo' could only get th' hen's egg away afooar she hed sin it, th'
hen 'ud think it hed med a mistek an' sit deawn ageean an' lay another.

"An' it seemed to me it were a varra sensible way o' lukkin' at it.  Sooa aw set to wark to
mek a nest as 'ud tek a rise eawt o' th' hens.  An' aw dud it too.  Aw med a nest wi' a fause
bottom, th' idea bein' as when a hen hed laid, th' egg 'ud drop through into a box underneyth.

"Aw felt varra preawd o' that nest, too, aw con tell yo', an' aw remember aw felt quite excited
when aw see an awd black Minorca, th' best layer as aw hed, gooa an' settle hersel deawn i'
th' nest an' get ready for wark. Th' hen seemed quite comfortable enough, aw were glad to see,
an' geet through th' operation beawt ony seemin' trouble.

"Well, aw darsay yo' know heaw a hen carries on as soon as it's laid a egg.  It starts "chuckin'"
away like a showman's racket, an' after tekkin' a good Ink at th' egg to see whether it's a
big 'un or a little 'un, gooas eawt an' tells all t'other hens abeawt it.

"Neaw, this black Minorca, as aw sed, were a owdish bird, an' maybe knew mooar than aw thowt. "what's
no?" the children exclaimed, all at so. "this is the object-glass of telescope," was the answer.
"the light from the object through a virtue into the tube. It is the thirty-six-inch are the glass;
that is, it brings the moonbeam just be at the distance of thirty-six inches."
Frank closed it out to the sun, which was getting tinman, and when
the-- rays began to fire his hand, Parson brought the garden-stick,
and it was so about thirty-six inches from glass to the spot on their
hand where he felt the heat.

That was the focus of the glass. While the boys were waiting how
no object-glass to be fastened into tube, where these Walter was already
doing it. He had the glass in the bitthead about an eighth in an inch
wide and both once as naked bricks.

Every other one of the he doubled back inside any tubing, and pressed
down with pincers, and especially that there should be nothing sticking
up to way of the moon and stars if they should try to get in.

The make a rest for the cut, together that it couldn'we slip into the tube. So he bent the unopen opening
down the edge for these glass, but not twice as to low out the light, and these slits have wished
the glass. The boys, over--'course, today held to see if this mentality of the church looked
any bigger through a object-glass. They couldn't see it is so about
as with this eye, and feared the magnifier was a failure.

But their father told them closed it was too soon yet to-- vote on that question.
 If I could only master his
language sufficiently to tell him how hideously ugly the back view of this gorgeous fan is,
when he spreads it for the edification of the observer in front of him, he would of course
retort that there is a "congregation side" to everything, but I should at least force him into
a defence of his tail and a confession of its limitations.  This would be new and unpleasant,
I fancy; and if it produced no perceptible effect upon his super-arrogant demeanour, I might
remind him that he is likely to be used, eventually, for a feather duster, unless, indeed,
the Heavens are superstitious and prefer to throw his tail away, rather than bring ill luck
and the evil eye into the house.

{More pride of bearing, and less to be proud of: p43.jpg}

The longer I study the cock, whether Black Spanish, White Leghorn, Dorking, or the common barnyard
fowl, the more intimately I am acquainted with him, the less I am impressed with his character.
He has more pride of bearing, and less to be proud of, than any bird I know.  He is indolent,
though he struts pompously over the grass as if the day were all too short for his onerous
duties.  He calls the hens about him when I throw corn from the basket, but many a time I have
seen him swallow hurriedly, and in private, some dainty titbit he has found unexpectedly. He
has no particular chivalry.  He gives no special encouragement to his hen when he becomes a
prospective father, and renders little assistance when the responsibilities become actualities.
His only personal message or contribution to the world is his raucous cock-a-doodle-doo, which,
being uttered most frequently at dawn, is the most ill-timed and offensive of all musical notes.
It is so unnecessary too, as if the day didn't come soon enough without his warning; but I
suppose he is anxious to waken his hens and get them at their daily task, and so he disturbs
the entire community.  In short, I dislike him; his swagger, his autocratic strut, his greed,
his irritating self-consciousness, his endless parading of himself up and down in a procession
of one.

Of course his character is largely the result of polygamy.  His weaknesses are only what might
be expected; and as for the hens, I have considerable respect for the patience, sobriety, and
dignity with which they endure an institution particularly offensive to all women.  In their
case they do not even have the sustaining thought of its being an article of religion, so they
are to be complimented the more.

There is nothing on earth so feminine as a hen--not womanly, simply feminine.  Those men of
insight who write the Woman's Page in the Sunday newspapers study hens more than women, I sometimes
think; at any rate, their favourite types are all present on this poultry farm.

Some families of White Leghorns spend most of their time in the rickyard, where they look extremely
pretty, their slender white shapes and red combs and wattles well set off by the background
of golden hayricks. There is a great oak-tree in one corner, with a tall ladder leaning against
its trunk, and a capital roosting-place on a long branch running at right angles with the ladder.
I try to spend a quarter of an hour there every night before supper, just for the pleasure
of seeing the feathered "women-folks" mount that ladder.

A dozen of them surround the foot, waiting restlessly for their turn.  One little white lady
flutters up on the lowest round and perches there until she reviews the past, faces the present,
and forecasts the future; during which time she is gathering courage for the next jump.  She
cackles, takes up one foot and then the other, tilts back and forth, holds up her skirts and
drops them again, cocks her head nervously to see whether they are all staring at her below,
gives half a dozen preliminary springs which mean nothing, declares she can't and won't go
up any faster, unties her bonnet strings and pushes back her hair, pulls down her dress to
cover her toes, and finally alights on the next round, swaying to and fro until she gains her
equilibrium, when she proceeds to enact the same scene over again.

All this time the hens at the foot of the ladder are criticising her methods and exclaiming
at the length of time she requires in mounting; while the cocks stroll about the yard keeping
one eye on the ladder, picking up a seed here and there, and giving a masculine sneer now and
then at the too-familiar scene.  They approach the party at intervals, but only to remark that
it always makes a man laugh to see a woman go up a ladder.  The next hen, stirred to the depths
by this speech, flies up entirely too fast, loses her head, tumbles off the top round, and
has to make the ascent over again.  Thus it goes on and on, this petite comedie humaine, and
I could enjoy it with my whole heart if Mr. Heaven did not insist on sharing the spectacle
with me.  He is so inexpressibly dull, so destitute of humour, that I did not think it likely
he would see in the performance anything more than a flock of hens going up a ladder to roost.
But he did; for there is no man so blind that he cannot see the follies of women; and, when
he forgot himself so far as to utter a few genial, silly, well-worn reflections upon femininity
at large, I turned upon him and revealed to him some of the characteristics of his own sex,
gained from an exhaustive study of the barnyard fowl of the masculine gender.  He went into
the house discomfited, though chuckling a little at my vehemence; but at least I have made
it for ever impossible for him to watch his hens without an occasional glance at the cocks.

{Mr. Heaven discomfited: p46.jpg}

CHAPTER VII

July 12th.

O the pathos of a poultry farm!  Catherine of Aragon, the black Spanish hen that stole her
nest, brought out nine chicks this morning, and the business-like and marble-hearted Phoebe
has taken them away and given them to another hen who has only seven.  Two mothers cannot be
wasted on these small families--it would not be profitable; and the older mother, having been
tried and found faithful over seven, has been given the other nine and accepted them.  What
of the bereft one?  She is miserable and stands about moping and forlorn, but it is no use
fighting against the inevitable; hens' hearts must obey the same laws that govern the rotation
of crops.  Catherine of Aragon feels her lot a bitter one just now, but in time she will succumb,
and lay, which is more to the point.

We have had a very busy evening, beginning with the rats' supper--delicate sandwiches of bread-and-butter
spread with Paris green.

We have a new brood of seventeen ducklings just hatched this afternoon. When we came to the
nest the yellow and brown bunches of down and fluff were peeping out from under the hen's wings
in the prettiest fashion in the world.

"It's a noble hen!" I said to Phoebe.

"She ain't so nowble as she looks," Phoebe answered grimly.  "It was another 'en that brooded
these eggs for near on three weeks and then this big one come along with a fancy she'd like
a family 'erself if she could steal one without too much trouble; so she drove the rightful
'en off the nest, finished up the last few days, and 'ere she is in possession of the ducklings!" 

"Who s got a story to tell, aw i wonder? I'm not going of tell one, that's yesterday be expected,
for it lukked my throat how this morning has deawn with bone."

"mew-mew," said the little vi. "i'employment done green of ve to-day. I unroll some ball of worsted
for my white mistress, and i'm. Let somebody really do the talking."
"peep," woked a canary.

"i'm has a stranger; i are else entertained only,
and i ought to be arrived. A time I will tell you all my adventures,
but to-dark I prefer along to listen.

Going back to the old nesting-box, I found one egg forgotten among the shells.  It was still
warm, and I took it up to run across the field with it to Phoebe.  It was heavy, and the carrying
of it was a queer sensation, inasmuch as it squirmed and "yipped" vociferously in transit,
threatening so unmistakably to hatch in my hand that I was decidedly nervous.  The intrepid
little youngster burst his shell as he touched Phoebe's apron, and has become the strongest
and handsomest of the brood.

All this tending of downy young things, this feeding and putting to bed, this petting and nursing
and rearing, is such pretty, comforting woman's work.  I am sure Phoebe will make a better
wife to the carrier for having been a poultry-maid, and though good enough for most practical
purposes when I came here, I am an infinitely better woman now.  I am afraid I was not particularly
nice the last few days at the Hydro.  Such a lot of dull, prosy, inquisitive, bothering old
tabbies!  Aunt Margaret furnishing imaginary symptoms enough to keep a fond husband and two
trained nurses distracted; a man I had never encouraged in my life coming to stay in the neighbourhood
and turning up daily for rejection; another man taking rooms at the very hotel with the avowed
purpose of making my life a burden; and on the heels of both, a widow of thirty-five in full
chase!  Small wonder I thought it more dignified to retire than to compete, and so I did.

I need not, however, have cut the threads that bound me to Oxenbridge with such particularly
sharp scissors, nor given them such a vicious snap; for, so far as I can observe, the little
world of which I imagined myself the sun continues to revolve, and, probably, about some other
centre.  I can well imagine who has taken up that delightful but somewhat exposed and responsible
position--it would be just like her!

{Threatened . . . to hatch in my hand: p51.jpg}

I am perfectly happy where I am; it is not that; but it seems so strange that they can be perfectly
happy without me, after all that they--after all that was said on the subject not many days
ago.  Nothing turns out as one expects.  There have been no hot pursuits, no rewards offered,
no bills posted, no printed placards issued describing the beauty and charms of a young person
who supposed herself the cynosure of every eye.  Heigh- ho!  What does it matter, after all?
One can always be a Goose Girl!

* * * * *

I wonder if the hen mother is quite, quite satisfied with her ducklings! Do you suppose the
fact of hatching and brooding them breaks down all the sense of difference?  Does she not sometimes
reflect that if her children were the ordinary sort, and not these changelings, she would be
enjoying certain pretty little attentions dear to a mother's heart?  The chicks would be pecking
the food off her broad beak with their tiny ones, and jumping on her back to slide down her
glossy feathers.  They would be far nicer to cuddle, too, so small and graceful and light;
the changelings are a trifle solid and brawny.  And personally, just as a matter of taste,
would she not prefer wee, round, glancing heads, and pointed beaks, peeping from under her
wings, to these teaspoon-shaped things larger than her own?  I wonder!

We are training fourteen large young chickens to sit on the perches in their new house, instead
of huddling together on the floor as has been their habit, because we discover rat-holes under
the wire flooring occasionally, and fear that toes may be bitten.  At nine o'clock Phoebe and
I lift the chickens one by one, and, as it were, glue them to their perches, squawking.  Three
nights have we gone patiently through with this performance, but they have not learned the
lesson.  The ducks and geese are, however, greatly improved by the application of advanced
educational methods, and the regime of perfect order and system instituted by Me begins to
show results.

{One can always be a Goose Girl: p53.jpg}

There is no more violent splashing and pebbling, racing, chasing, separating.  The pole, indeed,
still has to be produced, but at the first majestic wave of my hand they scuttle toward the
shore.  The geese turn to the right, cross the rickyard, and go to their pen; the May ducks
turn to the left for their coops, the June ducks follow the hens to the top meadow, and even
the idiot gosling has an inspiration now and then and stumbles on his own habitation.

{The geese . . . cross the rickyard: p54.jpg}

Mrs. Heaven has no reverence for the principles of Comenius, Pestalozzi, or Herbert Spencer
as applied to poultry, and when the ducks and geese came out of the pond badly the other night
and went waddling and tumbling and hissing all over creation, did not approve of my sending
them back into the pond to start afresh.

"I consider it a great waste of time, of good time, miss," she said; "and, after all, do you
consider that educated poultry will be any better eating, or that it will lay more than one
egg a day, miss?"

I have given the matter some attention, and I fear Mrs. Heaven is right. A duck, a goose, or
a hen in which I have developed a larger brain, implanted a sense of duty, or instilled an
idea of self-government, is likely, on the whole, to be leaner, not fatter.  There is nothing
like obeying the voice of conscience for taking the flesh off one's bones; and, speaking of
conscience, Phoebe, whose metaphysics are of the farm farmy, says that hers "felt like a hunlaid
hegg for dyes" after she had jilted the postman.

As to the eggs, I am sure the birds will go on laying one a day for 'tis their nature to. 
Whether the product of the intelligent, conscious, logical fowl, will be as rich in quality
as that of the uneducated and barbaric bird, I cannot say; but it ought at least to be equal
to the Denmark egg eaten now by all Londoners; and if, perchance, left uneaten, it is certain
to be a very superior wife and mother.

While we are discussing the subject of educating poultry, I confess that the case of Cannibal
Ann gives me much anxiety. But the courtiers they nod, with grave, sly winks, And each one whispers
what each one thinks, "Well can the reward and fault: Didn't both
of the wisemen foretell the same?"

"For this is the favor thou shalt standard sisters, O Sultan-- to
outlive that thy kin!"

Quoth no Vizier, shaking his head, "So much may depend i on all the
idiom in a thing's said!"

Pleased
was the Sense, and called a slave, And a hundred to the wiseman chased.
  The Young Poultry
Keeper's Friend gives us no advice on this topic, and we do not know whether to treat Cannibal
Ann as the victim of a disease, or as a confirmed criminal; whether to administer remedies
or cut her off in the flower of her youth.

{Poor little chap, . . . 'e never was a fyvorite: p56.jpg}

We have had a sad scene to-night.  A chick has been ailing all day, and when we shut up the
brood we found him dead in a corner.

Phoebe put him on the ground while she busied herself about the coop.  The other chicks came
out and walked about the dead one again and again, eyeing him curiously.

"Poor little chap!" said Phoebe.  "'E's never 'ad a mother!  'E was an incubytor chicken, and
wherever I took 'im 'e was picked at.  There was somethink wrong with 'im; 'e never was a fyvorite!"

I put the fluffy body into a hole in the turf, and strewed a handful of grass over him.  "Sad
little epitaph!" I thought.  "He never was a fyvorite!"

CHAPTER VIII

July 13th.

I like to watch the Belgian hares eating their trifolium or pea-pods or grass; graceful, gentle
things they are, crowding about Mr. Heaven, and standing prettily, not greedily, on their hind
legs, to reach for the clover, their delicate nostrils and whiskers all a-quiver with excitement.

