COUNT THE COST.

AN ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE of CONNECTICUT, ON SUNDRY POLITICAL SUBJECTS,

AND

PARTICULARLY ON THE PROPOSITION FOR A NEW CONSTITUTION.

                                   WASHINGTON'S FAREWELL ADDRESS.

AN ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE OF CONNECTICUT.

"FOR which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counteth the cost?"

An interesting question is here asked by the direction of infinite wisdom. This question contains
the following useful and important instruction: That no man or body of men should attempt the
accomplishment of any great object without duly estimating the evils and benefits probably
resulting from it. Such a rule of life and adopted and adhered to would have prevented many
schemes and projects which have cost much, and which have been productive of nothing but the
disgrace to their authors and misery to the human race--it would induce men to obey the dictates
of experience rather than the dreams of enthusiasm, and would drive from the world a species
of wisdom which is indeed folly. The Study on the life and works of the distinguished German jurist explained in brief summarize
their main writings and in the large number of critical notes that accompany a version has been
taken to complete the original text, in view of later works, putting it in line with the latest philosophical
and historical research. Finally, in the part referring to the German civil law, not only indicated
the main changes made to it after the publication of the encyclopedia, but the most important differences
between the former and positive law.

Volume I consists of 336 pages and includes:

Warning of the translators and annotators .-- News about the life
and works of .-- Preface Ahrens the author .-- Introduction.

Principles of Philosophy of Law: Groundwork of the idea of ​​law .-- Exhibition its capital
.-- Critical elements of the main systems of law .-- Forms, sources
immediate and mediate .-- .-- The State Division of private law and
organic groups, as the purpose of life.

History of Law: Philosophical principles of this story .-- .-- Periods
capital law pre-historic East .-- Right, look at general .-- The Hindu
.-- The Village Zendo .-- Egypt .-- China .-- The Hebrews .-- Appendices
.-- Muslim law.

Volume II consists of 464 pages and contains:

History of Law in Greece
and Rome: Difference between Greek law .-- .-- Rights Law Judgement
.-- Roman historical and philosophical.

Legal history of Christian: Right Germanic various times up today
.-- Law of non-German Germanic peoples Germanic law .-- peoples Latinos
.-- Law of Hungarian law Slavs .-- .-- Judgement philosophical history.

Volume

III contains 384 pages and contains:

Private law system: The concept, purpose and method of the same division.
 There is no village in this State which will not attest to this fact. In various places
also flourishing academies are supported, in which the higher branches of science are taught,
and our College is at once our ornament and our pride. Religious instruction is also brought
almost to every man's door, so that none can justly complain that they are denied the means
of growing wiser and better. By the liberality of the benevolent private libraries are every
where found which, with the other sources of information, evince the superiority of our condition
to that of any other people, in the means of gaining valuable knowledge. To those, who with
the writer, believe that ignorance is the parent of vice, and that the civilized is preferable
to the savage state, our situation, in the above particulars, demands the gratitude of every heart.

Our constitution and government are perfectly free, and our laws are mild, equitable and just.
To the truth of this position there is the most ample and unequivocal proof.

1. Those who seek to revolutionize the State declare this to be the nature of our government
with few exceptions.--Such testimony cannot be doubted--it is the testimony of a man against
himself. Ask your neighbour to point you to the evils under which he labours--ask him to name
the man who is oppressed except by his vices or his follies, and if he be honest, he will tell
you that there is no such man--if he be dishonest, his silence will be proof in point.

2. Strangers who reside here a sufficient time to learn our laws, universally concur in their
declarations on this subject. They will ask, with surprize, why the people of Connecticut should
complain? They see every man indulged in worshiping  God as he pleases, and they see many indulged
in neglecting his worship entirely--They see men every where enjoying the liberty of doing
what is right--and such liberty they rightly decide is the perfection of freedom.

3. The experience of a century and a half, affords irresistible proof on this subject. During
this long period convulsions have shaken many parts of the earth, and there has been a mighty
waste of human happiness. Empires and Kingdoms have been prostrated, and the sword hath been
devouring without cessation. This state too hath been threatened-- clouds have gathered and
portended a dreadful desolation, but we have been defended, protected and saved. No essential
changes in our government have ever taken place--formed by men who knew the important difference
between liberty and licentiousness, it has been our shield-- our strong tower--our secure fortress.--To
the calls of our country we have ever been obedient--No state hath more cheerfully met danger--no
state hath more readily or effectually resisted foreign aggression. Washington while living
was a witness to this fact, and tho' dead he yet speaketh. While plots, insurrections and rebellions
have distressed many states and nations, Connecticut hath enjoyed an internal peace and tranquility,
which forcibly demonstrates the wisdom and equity of her Government.--Such a Government, administered
by men of virtue and talents, has produced the most benign effects, and our prosperity is calculated
to excite the warmest expressions of gratitude rather than the murmurs of disaffection.

4. Our Treasury exhibits the truth of these remarks. It is clear from the statement in the
Appendix, to which every reader will advert with pleasure, that the people of Connecticut annually
receive thirty seven thousand four hundred and fifty-five dollars and seventy six cents more
from the Treasury than they pay into it by taxes and duties.--At the close of the late war
such had been our exertions, we were encumbered with a debt of nearly two millions of dollars.
Now that debt is paid and we have nearly that sum in advance. Where is the state which can
justly boast of greater prosperity?

Notwithstanding this enviable situation a clamour is excited, the people are agitated, and
discord, with its train of evils, is prevailing. Some of our citizens, in the height of political
prosperity, are seeking to destroy an order of things which has prevailed an hundred and fifty
years, and throw themselves into the arms of projectors and reformers. Is there nothing unaccountable
in such conduct? Is there nothing calculated to excite indignation? My fellow citizens, shall
any considerable portion of the people of Connecticut subject themselves to the reproach which
rested on an ancient people? "The ox knoweth his owner and the ass his master's crib, but my
people do not know, Israel doth not consider."

Secondly. Why a man who regards the happiness of his fellow men, should attempt a change here,
is too wonderful for an ordinary capacity. No prudent farmer ever pulled up a hill of corn,
which was flourishing, to see if there was not a worm at the root.

One of these projects is the repeal of all laws for the support of religious institutions.
The language of those who favor the measure is, that religion will take care of itself--that
no external aid is necessary--that all legislative interference is impious. Many, and it is
believed by far the greater part, of those who make these declarations, intend to throw down
all the barriers which christianity has erected against vice. They are obstinately determined
to banish from the public mind all affection and veneration for the Clergy, and respect for
the institutions of religion, and to reduce Connecticut to that condition which knows no distinction
between "him who serveth God and him who serveth him not." They wish to see a Republic without
religion; and should they be gratified, the consequence would speedily be, a miserable race
of men without virtue, walling in vice and ripening for a dreadful destruction. If infinite
truth is to be credited, "God will pour out his indignation on the heathen who know him not."

These reformers, under the specious pretext of exercising unbounded liberality in matters of
religion, become intolerant to all who differ from them, charging the professors of christianity
with breathing out a spirit of persecution, they become the most furious persecutors, and while
they affect to possess great moderation and candor towards all denominations of Christians,
they clearly evince that they would grant indulgence or protection to none. On the other hand
a great majority of the people and the Legislature, insist that every man in the community
who is able, should contribute, in some way, towards the support of the institutions of religion.
No wish is entertained to legislate in matters of faith, or to establish one sect in preference
to another. Our laws permit every man to worship God when, where, and in the manner most agreeable
to his principles or to his inclination, and not the least restraint is imposed; all ideas
of dictating to the conscience are discarded, and every man "sits under his own vine and fig
tree." Our laws only enforce the great principle abovementioned that the members of the community
should contribute towards the support of these institutions, as means to promote the prosperity
of the people in the same manner as they provide for the public accommodation, peace and happiness,
by the maintenance of the roads and bridges, the organization of the militia, and the support
of schools of instruction. Should objections be urged by any individuals that they cannot conscientiously
contribute to the promotion of these objects, their objections would be disregarded. There
is a class of men, very respectable for the sobriety of their habits, and their peaceful deportment,
who always refuse to be taxed for military defence. No one doubts that in their opposition,
they are conscientious, and yet few doubt the propriety of enforcing such taxes.

The principle now advocated is interwoven with all our laws and habits --it has existed from
the first settlement of the State--it has produced much good--it ought not therefore to be
abandoned without the utmost deliberation. The clamor against this principle, is the clamor
of those who wish to see the State revolutionized--it is the clamor of those turbulent spirits
which delight in confusion and which pull down and destroy with a dexterity which they never
shew in building up. 

The Holy Child of Cebu, an image that left in that city co-Magallanes, resorted the Cebuanos, before
converting to Catholicism, to ask for rain, "leading him in procession to the beach and by putting
in the water, so getting the rain that had need "(Ninth the Most Holy Name of Jesus, Malabon,
1895, pg. 11). However, the immersion in water the sea, was a resource that could be called
extreme cases, it reads a line from this novena:

                "If anything failed to water
                because you prayed, the sea,
                O Child, you bore, and the waters
                I got: and water and asked,
                gave your love. "(p. 29.)

The
                best known miracles made by the Santo Niño took place from 1618 to
1675, from then it is logged in the Ninth none memorable.

However, the Ninth affirms that miracles the "continuously make Santo Niño" (p. 15) and "turn
it all the Visayas Bohol, Cebu, Leyte, Samar, Mindanao and many Tagalog to kiss his sacred feet, and
venerate and entrust their needs and misfortunes requesting relief in sickness, help in navigation
and protection in all the events of life "(pp. 15-16).

Safety in the ninth desired effect is complete in regard to San Roque
"The exercise of this Novena, says (p. 3, Ninth, Manila, 1910), gives
the average force to achieve this glorious saint of God that we ."--"

To get rid of fever * * * which has its origin in the corruption of the air * * * San Roque
to have to go with fervent prayers * * * "(p. 3). Next to the corpse of the Saint was found
a letter that it is written by God, saying: "Those who hurt fever, implore the favor of Roque
achieve health "(p. 5). The intervention of San Roque is only for Catholics; who makes his ninth
says the following: "I beseech you that by the merits of this glorious Holy libréis us, to all
who attended this cult and to all Catholics in your Kingdom of Spain and the Islands, all pestilent
disease that can take our lives " (P. 13). As there are here including the U.S. Catholic, the Bureau
of Health must remember that such citizens with non-Catholics who live the Philippines do not
enjoy antipestífera protection of San Roque.

Superstition and crime

In his remarkable study of criminal anthropology in the Philippines,
says Dr. Sixto de Los Angeles (p. 119): "The easy credulity fostered
by the overcultivation of religious fanaticism, has constituted from
the beginning until the present one of the flaws, unfortunately quite
still widespread among the natives of the country * * *.

Lover of their traditions and habits inherited and lack of sufficient
opportunities to acquire knowledge, the Filipino populace must hold,
as is logical and natural, their beliefs, which, not requiring any
effort for comprehension, are worsening and are rooted in a spontaneous
way in his mind.

As evidenced by our judicial annals, superstition holds a significant category between the
factors of crime in the country. "Superstitions referred to by Dr. LA not just those of the old paganism
of Filipino missionaries after more than three centuries, have failed to completely destroy. Superstitions
referred in this conference are those brought by those missionaries who have been easily to intrude
on the Philippines, naturally willing credulity, by effective propaganda and generously spread
on the ninth and other booklets called of devotion.

As to the arrival of American education in the Philippines was always and exclusively religious,
and directed by Roman priests, the persistence of ancient superstitions are a demonstration of the
failure of religious education. Missionaries would have an excuse blame the rude filipino invincible,
we could admit courtesy and to avoid discussions. But the trouble is not that they could not remove
some of the supposed hard head Indian, but the tremendous wealth of superstitions that for
more than three centuries, these missionaries have the same penetrating head injury so severe
in their minds and morals.

Unwillingness

The sinner unwillingness to restrain their evil deeds said to Jesus, washing hands in divine intervention
and testifying to the lack of sense of responsibility, "Is possible, sweetest Saviour of souls,
making so many every day, only to loss mine you have to prove insensitive? "(p. 13.) This is
part of a compound sentence none other than the Pope Gregory VII in its Practice Devoted to the Passion
of Christ (Manila, 1905).

It is also said to the Virgin: "Cleanse, Virgin Immaculate, my heart from all sin, and let down
me everything that displeases your eyes purest. Purge my soul of love and affected areas. "(pp.
10-11; Franciscan Crown - the Virgin Mary. Manila, 1902.)

By the intercession of San Francisco the devotee asks God: "I hold in all my disordered passions,
powers and senses, "so that"

I can reduce my thoughts, my words to measure and direct my work to the greatest perfection,
"and" Thou wouldst soften the hardness of my heart. " (Pp. 18, 20 and 21 of the novena to
St. Francis of Assisi. Manila, 1899.)

Afraid of the machinations of Satan, devoted to St. Philomena asks (p. 23, Nov.) "You reach the Lord
who break more and more the forces of my enemies, the demons, and to save me despite myself. "

Invoke
the aid of Santa Filomena saying (p. 25, Nov.): "Make me chaste is
also, In my state, and my mouth utters not any words that according
to St. Paul, should not be named among the faithful.

"

A Santa Ana, mother of Mary, tells his devotee: "Interesaos therefore
Santa mine, so I grant patience in my adversity, tolerance injuries,
and around a tranquil mood * * * (IX, pg.

1, Manila, 1893). It is also runs the following plea, "Empeñaos therefore Santa mine, with your
sacred grandson Jesus to be removed from our hearts all disaffected and ill will for God's sake
forgive all injuries * * *. "

It is possible to cultivate a sense of dignity or respect for himself when spread doctrines such
as those resulting from the following examples, the ninth of Santa Rosa de Lima:

"Taken from his humility, was a maid stepped lips," (p. 10).

"I loved most the scorn than worldly honors * * *. "(p. 102), and" wanted to so effectively the
others were the vilest thing in the world, who claimed he deserved
to be in hell and that was his own place for their sins.

If anyone showed not believe it and that was acquit, Nobody knows me, he added, I only know
what I am "(p. 11)." Hearing after the praise of virtue, it was felt as a faint "(p. 11).

In a prayer to Santa Filomena (Ninth, pg. 16) is said to Santa, asking for their protection:
"My sins I have become a little lower than the angels, much lower than the beasts, as they do
not forget his master's crib, and so appreciate their food and I've
forgotten God's house * * *.

" It is not only self-contempt which is of such considerations, but the lack of logic in attributing
to the gratitude of the animals returned to his master's crib, when it is clear that the motive
that drives them is simply hunger.

The wrath of God

Natural phenomena are regarded as manifestations of ignorance of divine
wrath, which not come to occur if someone, in humanity, not caused
by his conduct.

St. Thomas Aquinas, who is rightly regarded as the scientific man of his time firmly believed
that thunder, lightning and storms were only manifestations punitive God's anger against men. "In
his fear of God, was born in the Holy Doctor a kind of fear of thunder and storms, with that as
a reverent son, feared to see angry Father's face, fearing those storms were not caused by his
sins. "(Military Angelica, Manila, 1907, pg. 21.)

Fear Blind Thomas made him conceive a blind justice of the Divine because of God guilt triggered a
lightning storm and lavished naturally hurt and annoyed a large number
of people suffering because of the sins of the Holy.

For the simple believer when the Holy wise thought and thought so, there is no reason to reject
explanation, much less suspecting it fair to punish sinners is not work of justice or even common
sense.

Lack of logic

The logical mind can not develop when it promotes and cultivates the
absurd, mainly when you have covered with the false veneer of religion,
when based on superstition of a wholly childish and simple.

In the life of San Vicente Ferrer, printed in the ninth, relate the
following miracles and there is no doubt that whoever believes in
them, can not grow in any way the functions of his intelligence.

"In Valencia, a servant of the Earl of Faure, who was born deaf and
without a tongue, was so many years and one day to worship the relic
of San Vicente, cured of deafness, language was born and spoke on
"(p. 17).

"A woman gave birth to a piece of meat without human figure.

Offered him to St. Vincent by say a mass, and the Epistle and had the head, arms to the Gospel,
to embody legs and finally found a beautiful child. The same thing happened to another lady
of Toledo "(p. 34).

"In Lisbon, a lady lived run for being so ugly, it was the laughter of the saw. Went St. Vincent
and awoke one morning very beautiful and graceful, that was so devout
San Vicente Lisbon ladies that do not exceed those of Valencia "(p.
37).

"A merchant went to a show and in the meantime his wife committed a vulnerability as was * * *.
Sorry was instructed to San Vicente and Santo came back to the path where the husband with
a horse, getting there to scare them by means of a layer and scattered. Then her husband lost
his time to gather their horses, so when it came to home because his wife had time out of your
care, getting rid of the consequences lack thereof. "This refers to the most natural immoral
and grotesque, it leaves without reason or cause punished the innocent
husband and the Holy run with a mischievous layer only worthy of a
rogue stream.

San Ramon is said that taking such an interest in the misfortunes and sorrows of his devotees
and is so extremely compassionate "who have sweated their images by the distress of the devotees"
(p. 12).

"A picture so obviously the Holy sweat while his devoted suffered, that the veil is stained
to be covered, and some soaked in sweat pañolitos wonderfully relieved pain head "(p. 21).

San Roque has the power to prevent the spread of epidemics.

"Its protection is the preserve us from the plague and many other ailments, which have their
origin in corruption air that we had to preserve life, kills us "(p. 3).

The height of absurdity

Is it possible to invent and involve greater absurdities that mentioned
here?

No But not to lengthen this conference presented only a small number of cases cited in abundance
in these little pamphlets distributed extensively in our people. What logic, we can reasonably
expect from brain nourished with such absurd nonsense fed so childish
nature is not understood that men have been told by a simple sense
common?

"The mattress in San Vicente died kept under miracles, as lying in him on several occasions
more than 400 patients of different accidents, all managed health " (P. 32).

Once San Antonio de Padua was preaching at the beach, thought that "out of the water fish who
heard him preach and attentive. "No devotee questioned the output of fish nor interested in solving
problems in physics, physiology, linguistics and mainly logic of such an event, but it says the novena
to Santo (P. 20).

Unnecessarily prolong this conference if I mentioned all the absurdities entered Novenas in which
I have a large body which is a positive documentation very useful for the history of the superstition
that only deflowering here. With that said there is enough to explain the origin of immorality,
the real cause of the predisposition to addiction, the absence of
a sense of responsibility, the natural explanation of the incomprehensibility
composed of a mixture of feelings that the missionaries have been
attributed to filipino, Indian, Spanish and Chinese, all influenced
by the malicious spirit that informs all that literature completely
disruptive of reason.

She and non-secular education is responsible phenomenon.

I do not come formulating theories and hypotheses emit capricious. Before an audience like the one
I have the honor of speaking, I need to weigh the value of my words and my judgments. For this
reason I brought facts, repeating texts I have quoted the words, not secular literature Corridos
constituted by the anonymous whose harmful influence is well known,
but the authentic texts of novenas authorized by ecclesiastical censure
for failing to contain anything contrary to sound morality, as stated
in the license to print.

Not for a moment I tried to mix religion in my criticism, nor is it in my hands change the
consequences that follow from the facts mentioned in the ninth, which
is the literature responsible for a state of childish mentality, quite
inadequate for moral intelligence, composed of elements, crippling
and not progress.

Morality is nothing more than the victory over himself whereby a man does what he must and not what
you want. In the immoral man there is no struggle between two tendencies, one toward evil another
to the right. There is only an instinctive tendency: no brakes rational object. What self-control
who has to curb his habit and utter dirty words and obscene uses the intervention of a saint?
Lack of will, devoid of the idea same control himself, how can triumph over himself? Plaything
of his passions, seemed that the only thing that could keep him was the punishment in the afterlife,
but that fear not worried, because while he is threatened with eternal
fire, is told how can avoid it, not to do evil.

The immorality of the ninth

These contain a teaching ninth fatal to the society whose moral foundation is in the development
of individual conditions such as work, compliance duty, respect for the law, fighting against
their own instincts and passions that requires prior of all the self-control. Not only are
not taught or even mentioned these social obligations, but also encourages all the wrong ensuring
criminal, a sinner, that will be forgiven, which may escape punishment,
that evil act and guilty that that is, without effort, as naturally
and easily get what it wants and prevail on earth, as in the afterlife.

On

one hand it scares the individual with the genius of evil, always pushing for the road of vice
and shame: the other is putting blind trust inspired by an Angel Guard that does not leave him
night and day, he says, leads him, "their intervention so useful that adjust what we were asking God
when you know that our requests are bring us some evil soul or body. "

What justice can be conceived idea who remembers the spectacle he witnessed the gentleman Cuzco in
the cemetery? Not only is presented to Mary and Joseph to intercede with all energy for the salvation
of the evil for no reason invoked their names, but neither are moved tested or even soften the cruelty
of Jesus Christ when sudden death sentence and eternal damnation to the two unfortunate women
of evil life. New subjects are started as old ones cease to operate, and thus all that ingenuity
and art, industry and perseverance, can devise or effect is accomplished. Thus, that numerous
and respectably body of Christians called Episcopalians have been told, and repeatedly told,
that the more numerous denomination were seeking to deprive them of their just and equal rights,
and to subject them to the tyranny of an overbearing majority--These tales were reiterated
till their authors found them useless from their folly and falsehood. At another time the Baptists
are addressed by a set of men who denied the reality of any religion and the most earnest yearnings
for their welfare. They tyranny of the Legislature was painted in horrid colors, and they were
exhorted to lend their aid to vindicate the cause of the oppressed. Those who conscientiously
believe that no taxes ought to be paid for the support of religion, and those who wish that
religion might no more infest the residence of men, were addressed with considerations adapted
to their respective cases. At one time men destitute of property are seduced by the alluring
doctrine of universal suffrage--then the farmer is told that taxes are too high on land, and,
with the same breath, the mechanic is sagely informed, that the poll tax should be repealed,
and the burden fall back on the land holder.

Festivals under the pretence of honoring the election of Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Burr, and of
extolling the wisdom of the purchase of Louisiana, but with a real design to blazen the fame
of those who assume the character of friends of the people that they may the more readily destroy
the most free and equitable Government in the world, are continually holden, and the discontented,
the factious, the ambitious and the corrupt, are collected and flattered with declamations
in the various shapes of prayers, sermons and orations. Thus a people enjoying the height of
political prosperity are cajoled into a belief that men without virtue, without the restraints
of the gospel, without a particle of real regard for their fellow men, are their best friends,
and are anxiously laboring to promote their good. Let such remember, that when the Ethiopian
shall change his skin, when the Leopard shall change his spots, and when bitter fountains shall
send forth sweet water, then will those who flatter the people with their tongues, and deceive
them with their lips seek their happiness. Such are some of the measures resorted to by those
who have sworn in their wrath that Connecticut shall be revolutionized. Finding all these ineffectual,
and that the good sence and virtue of Connecticut has hitherto opposed an inseparable barrier
to all their plans, they now exclaim Connecticut has no Constitution. Such a gross absurdity
could never have been promulgated till the mind was in some degree prepared, by being accustomed
to misrepresentation. This was well known to Mr. Bishop, who has for years been in the habit
of disregarding moral obligation. In the year 1789 this Orator pronounced several inflammatory
invectives against the Constitution of the United States, to which he was a bitter enemy till
he obtained an office under it worth three thousand dollars a year. At that time his language
was, The Constitution of Connecticut is the best in the world--it has grown up with the people,
and is fitted to their condition.--Now this consistent man who is endeavoring to gull the people
that he may successfully tyrannize over them, avows that they are without a Constitution.

My fellow citizens, examine this head of clamor with candor, read the solemn declaration of
Washington in the title page, attend to the following remarks, and then tell me if you do not
perceive in this project, with the manner in which it is supported and attempted to be accomplished,
enough of the revolutionary spirit of France, to excite the indignation of every real friend
to the peace and happiness of Connecticut.

1. If there be no Constitution in Connecticut then your Huntingtons, your Trumbulls, your Shermans,
your Wolcotts and your Davenports, with many other worthies, who were your defence in war,
and your ornament in peace, and who are now sleeping with their fathers, were wicked usurpers
--they ruled their fellow citizens without authority--they were TYRANTS. Let Judd and Bishop
approach the sepulchures of these venerable men--let them lift the covering from these venerable
ashes and in the face of heaven pronounce them TYRANTS!! Could you see them approach their
dust with such language on their tongues, you would see them retreat with horrible confusion
from these relicks of departed worth.

2. The present rulers are acting also without authority, and their laws are void--then you
are already in the midst of anarchy and wild misrule --then has no man a title to an inch of
land, and you are ready for an equal of division of property--all protection of life and liberty
is at an end, and the will of a mob is now to prevail.

3. If indeed there is no Constitution, then the oath which has been administered in your freemen's
meetings for twenty years, by which each man has sworn "to be true and faithful to the Constitution"
of the state, is worse than impious profanation of the name of God--then your judges, magistrates
and jurors have stripped men of their property, condemned some to Newgate and others to the
Post, the Pillory and the Gallows without a warrant, and are therefore murderers.--O thou God
of order in this our condition!!! But,

4. We have a Constitution--a free and happy Constitution. It was to our fathers like the shadow
of a great rock in a weary land--it has enabled them to transmit to us a fair and glorious
inheritance--if we suffer revolutionists to rob us of this birth right "then we are bastards
and not sons."

It is a fact as well authenticated as the settlement of the state, that a Constitution was
formed by the people of the then colony of Connecticut, before the Charter of King Charles.
This Charter was a guarantee of that Constitution. Trumbull's history of Connecticut gives
us this Constitution and its origin. On our separation from Great- Britain, the people, thro'
their representatives, made the following declaration on this subject:

"An Act containing an Abstract and Declaration of the Rights and Privileges of the People of
this State, and securing the same. THE People of this State, being by the Providence of God,
free and independent, have the sole and exclusive Right of governing themselves as a free,
sovereign, and independent State; and having from their Ancestors derived a free and excellent
Constitution of Government whereby the Legislature depends on the free and annual Election
of the People, they have the best Security for the Preservation of their civil and religious
Rights and Liberties. And forasmuch as the free Fruition of such Liberties and Privileges as
Humanity, Civility and Christianity call for, as is due to every Man in his Place and Proportion,
without Impeachment and Infringement, hath ever been, and wilt be the Tranquility and Stability
of Churches and Commonwealths; and the Denial thereof, the Disturbance, if not the Ruin of both.

PAR. And that this Republic is, and shall forever be and remain, a free, sovereign and independent
Sate, by the Name of the STATE of CONNECTICUT.

2. And be it further enacted and declared, That no Man's Land shall be taken away: No Man's
Honor or good Name shall be stained: No Man's Person shall be arrested, restrained, banished,
dismembered, nor any Ways punished: No Man shall be deprived of his Wife or Children; No Man's
Goods or Estate shall be taken away from him nor any Ways indamaged under the Color of Law,
or Countenance of Authority; unless clearly warranted by the Laws of this State.

3. That all the Free Inhabitants of this or any other of the United States of America, and
Foreigners in Amity with this State, shall enjoy the same justice and Law within this State,
which is general for the State in all Cases proper for the Cognizance of the Civil Authority
and Court of Judicature within the same, and that without Partiality or Delay.

4. And that no Man's Person shall be restrained, or imprisoned, by any Authority whatsoever,
before the Law hat sentenced him thereunto, if he can and will give sufficient Security, Bail,
or Mainprize for his Appearance and good Behaviour in the mean Time, unless it be for Capital
Crimes, Contempt in open Court, or in such Cases wherein some express Law doth allow of, or
order the same."

These proceedings have been regarded as the ark of our political safety by the great and the
good of all parties, who have gone before us. Never till this year have we heard, or even suspected
that our state was governed by lawless mobs. Now, as a means to effect a revolution, for the
first time, have a few designing men endeavored to excite alarm-- they have indeed excited
alarm--sober men of their own party are alarmed--honest men, who are not misguided, see the
whole extent of this project and they will frown it into contempt.

5. Mr. Edwards, as chairman of a body of men whom he calls a State Committee, on the 30th of
July, without consulting even his brethren of the Committee, ordered delegates to meet at New-Haven
on the 5th Wednesday of August. In those towns where enough could not be assembled to elect
a member, the person written to, was authorized to attend and take a seat. In some towns the
proposition was rejected even by Republicans. The delegates thus chosen, with all who united
with their opinions, and chose to attend, met at the time and place appointed--shut their doors
against every eye and ear--sat one day, formed an address, ordered ten thousand copies printed
and dissolved. This address we have seen. It deserves some notice:

The first thing that attracts our attention is, that William Judd, Esq. of Farmington, is appointed
chairman. This was an admirable provision --such a meeting should certainly have such a head.
A man with the habit of devoting his feeble talents to intrigue, and who is noticeable only
for an ostentatious parade, would preside in such an assembly with peculiar grace. His acquaintance
could not but approve of this exhibition of the power of inflammable air and be pleased with
its effects [on] an exhausted receiver. The meeting thus organized proceeded to stile this
Convention as follows: "AT a meeting of Delegates from ninety-seven towns of the state of Connecticut,
convened at New-Haven on the 29th of August, 1804." Delegates--Delegates do they stile themselves?
The people would be obliged to this Convention to disclose their authority. Who commissioned
these gentlemen for this important labor of providing them with a Constitution? The truth is
not a man in that Convention was chosen by a majority of the people of [their] town--in many
instances with less than a quarter part, and in general with less than a tenth----yet they
call themselves Delegates. Thus [the] Convention with Major Judd in the chair, precede their
address [with] a grosly deceptive declaration---a declaration notoriously false and [impu]dent.
They then declare it as their unanimous opinion, "that the people of this state are at present
without a Constitution of civil Government." This was to have been expected. Mr. Edwards ordered
them to meet for that purpose, and shall they not obey their master? Bishop and Wolcott have
repeatedly directed them to make this declaration, and Major Judd knows it to be true. Can
any man doubt either the truth of this remark or the sincerity with which it is uttered? Is
it not clear that this whole proceeding originates in a pure unmixed affection for the people
and a sacred regard to truth? My fellow citizens, look at the whole course of the lives of
Judd, (I place him first on the list because he was chairman) of Bishop and of Wolcott, and
say if they have not ever been under the influence of the most disinterested virtue and the
most exalted patriotism? Look also at these Delegates from ninety- seven towns, and say if
they can have any other object in view but the dignity, happiness and glory of their country?
Individuals can only vouch for individuals. The writer can vouch for about thirty with Major
Judd at their head.

If any reader shall think that the subject is treated with too much levity, he should reflect
that we are now animadverting on this Convention in their appointment of chairman, their stiling
themselves Delegates from ninety-seven towns, and their declaration that we have no Constitution.
On these subjects it is scarcely possible to be serious.

The address proceeds to declare how many of the confederated states have made for themselves
Constitutions. We ask, which of them is more prosperous than Connecticut? In which of them
are the great interests of Society better secured? In New-York a Convention was called about
three years since to amend their Constitution. In Pennsylvania they have had two Constitutions
and they are now on the eve of a civil war. Duane the great moving spring of all Jacobin societies,
a vile outcast from Europe, reigns with uncontroled sway in every measure, and every man of
virtue is denounced.

In Georgia they have had two Constitutions, and in Vermont two, and who dare pronounce their
political situation equal to that of Connecticut. The people of France have had six Constitutions
within fifteen years, and where are those Constitutions? In the grave of anarchy and despotism
with millions of deluded inhabitants who have been sacrificed by the Robespieres and the Bishops
of that suffering nation. To that suffering nation turn your eyes and reflect that the mighty
mass of woe under which they have groaned, was produced by an ambition, fierce, cruel and destructive
as hell, and that an ambition alike terrible reigns every where.

Read this address attentively, and you will be struck with the idea that no grievance is mentioned----not
a single evil is pointed out---indeed the Convention declare that they must be "excused a detail
of the numerous wrongs which have arrived to us under this Government"----these are their words---they
are excused indeed---yes, they are excused from not polluting their address with falsehoods
in this particular---full well they knew that no such wrongs existed----full well they anticipated
that a certain detection would follow any such attempt at imposition. The leaders in this Convention
knew full well that there is intelligence enough in Connecticut to meet them on any complaint,
and to shew that it is groundless. They, therefore, prudently decline to be explicit, and yielding
to us that the Government is now well administered, they shew a great anxiety for the safety
of the "next generation." What an astonishing display of philanthropy!! Bishop and Wolcott
are not at ease in their hearts while there is a prospect that even the generations which succeed
us, will experience a woe!!

After many remarks directed to the passions, without proposing in specific terms a single provision
of their newly projected Constitution, without laying their finger upon a single grievance,
without urging a single argument tending to shew that a Constitution does not exist, the address
unmakes itself---it unmasks the Convention---it unmasks these patriotic Delegates, and discovers
the true cause of this Jacobinic meeting. Towards the close of it, speaking of the people,
it says, "By their votes will be known their decision. If a Constitution appears desirable,
they will vote for men who are in favor of it." Here the Convention speak which all may understand---but
lest they had not made themselves sufficiently intelligible, they add, "We ask men of all parties
to attend punctually at proxies and to continue a contest of votes till the great question
whether this state shall have a Constitution be settled finally and forever." 

Inesita opened his eyes and mouth, and shocked, to hear that there
were several styles to watch.

Doña Beatriz, not abandon his idea that the innocence of his sister gave him more money, he began
to think that if this candor bordering on blindness, could harm their plans. Something seemed
desirable and when not to unleash the band, loosen it a bit.

It was time to start to Inesita in the simplest mysteries of this
rogue world.

Moved by this thought, Beatriz said:

- Yes, my daughter, there are many styles to watch.

- Okay, sister, and I understand it - said Ines -.

Although I'm pretty stupid and ignorant all, because the people I've
spent my life sewing, playing with dolls, taking care our old tutor
and fixing the small altar, where San Antonio was the Christ Child
in the arms, while you were reading, studies and conversations, still
reaches me that look in different ways: for example, with affection
and indifference.

- Yes.

- I do not understand is why the wives
know that, and do not know why single women.

- For single women should
not know, because if they do, they should pretend to ignore it, and
because they lose a lot if you look through art, not to be so wonderful
to look at art that even the most cunning you note.

- And tell me,
sister, do not it could be that, without reflection, and by virtue
of that instinct, more and less fallible inspired reflection, looked
silly sometimes a single as well or better married to the most skilled?

-
Everything is possible.

Ingenuity can do everything. I, however, to tell you the three major
pitfalls they may encounter if you try to look at men.

First obstacle: that you be the eyes behind those who look, which is surrender, surrender and
feet tied and hands, making love to warm you if you breathe in, or profane and ridicule and mock
Your love if you do not apply.

Second obstacle: that look like shyness or distrust amazed and surly, and risk a silly pass
soda or not so. And the third obstacle, which possesses look at the science and other sciences
that presuppose the look, failed to conceal and ensure this wisdom,
and you accused and zahieran of lizard, of Lycurgus, the brash and
free and sick known for married.

- I think, Beatrice, in order to
avoid these pitfalls it is best to let go of the impulse.

- Oh, my
daughter!

No phrase meaningless. According Braulio, who read many tomes in leisure, at least as mankind has
twelve thousand years of civilization. Where will become of the legitimate and natural pure
impulse, after the fuss of beliefs, laws, doctrines, customs, habits, fashions and social conventions?
Take a Greyhound to your natural momentum. Become a savage, or seek him among the wild if you
have it. In addition, the natural impulse, the impulse of mere nature, is sinful and wrong. I miss
a girl, so good Christian as you are, be wary of natural impulse. Well good nature was then original
sin, for us to trust it.

- Women, I was wrong, I explained wrong.

What I meant was that it should get carried away, to look like for
all of my Christian feelings, that my natural impulse, as amended
and refined by the moral and religious education, thank God, I have
received.

- But look here, innocent!

What brings the doctrine of the Father Ripalda on these interesting details? Not anticipated
and left you in the dark. Our tutor, in the long sermons to us missed, never touched this point.
How did they calculate the Father and our guardian Ripalda were going to stroll in the Buen
Retiro, and you would be chased by a Condesito, handsome, elegant, noble, with car and drives more
than 15,000 income? In this complicated case involving thousand elements alien to the moral theology.
And what is the car, the elegance, the county, income of 15,000, the concerts of the Buen
Retiro and countless other circumstances, nothing have to do with nature are on the summit of it,
can and should be regarded as supernatural, because they are added
and superimposed on the natural and the culture of the century.

Laughter and good humor with which Dona Beatriz said all this a bit
puzzled Inesita.

Also did not know whether to cast it as a joke or replicate seriously. Resolvióse the end of the
second, and said:

- Sister, whether natural or supernatural circumstances, persist in believing safer any device
and study this I call my natural impulse. Sincerity and honesty is always what counts brings up the
practical and useful. I deny that science or the art of looking. For anything you need. A girl
must look honest and modest every lover of good breeding and advise, not to appear rude, in
general affect he feels or should feel for all others, and with due caution, that the gallant not misinterpret
his benevolence and the promise happy.

If you pass the handsome heartthrob indifferent a handsome lover, and love inspire the girl the
convenient way of looking at who you love, without you drop in to learn it by art.

- Hey, Ines - "Dona Beatriz -, no joke I'm talking about, but with great seriousness in the
background. You'd be right in what you say if there were no transition period between being
in love and not to be. You yourself have said. If the suitor goes from indifferent to love. Well,
for this step are the rules and art. Who is unrequited loves and really, look at him as want.
Love itself will teach you how to look at him but my daughter, is not that; this is the one who
you love and yet still loves you.

- A look at like that neighbor it.

- There's your mistake, Ines. You put no middle ground between indifference and love. That jump
itself is unnatural, dangerous and improbable. Nobody goes, fortunately, indifference to love
without degrees, procedures and terms means. For not so! Daughter, love is little Apoc. From
indifference, or rather, from the general affection to all others at that unique feeling called
love, there is a sliding scale that goes up point point and that is the period of flirtation.
Without such a flirt, without leaving perched grades or steps of
the aforementioned scale, no one ever comes to the temple of the true
love, no glory reaches its favor gift.

- How is that?

"So I may not love or be loved without flirting never before?

-
I do not deny the possibility, but would be difficult, extraordinary.

In novels, poetry only, see, for example, a man who sees passing in the street to a lady, and
pataplum ... suddenly ... català died of love for her. She also looks ... and goodbye rest
and trial, not knowing if a rogue or a good man, a fool or a wise, rich or poor, and we love. The
rationale is this: the rational is that people are treated, talk, know, are deemed, fans go to
each other, until after you love. All this period is what I call flirting. See you if the flirting
is necessary and useful. No love it there. If not please with a face that guests dismiss, ignore
anyone, no look at anyone but as a neighbor while not feel love, and love or ever will come to
your soul or you infuse it with another human soul ever.

Flirting is thus a rite, a cult a prayer, an evocation of love to
come.

I say all this to stop you prudery and go be something flirty. And I wish that you are with distinction
and smoothness without impeachment of any kind, with the composure and modesty required, and keeping
that wonderful candor, that aspect of pure innocence that God has placed in your gesture and
in your face, so I recommend the divine art.

- And with this art, what will I earn?

- Earn you love. We go to a particular case. Let's talk about the other night Condesito. I know
that does not love him. Thanks be to God that it has not done so flammable that you put to
love a man only to see him pass. There is no presumption that he is hopelessly love you. Neither
do men fall in love suddenly. What is likely, almost certainly, Condesito is that I found beautiful,
graceful and elegant, have imagined that you are good and you are well educated, in which no mistakes,
and I admire and attracted to you curious sympathy and other sinful desires and thoughts. I
grant, moreover, that the young Count, with its arrogance, which is great, is promised triumphs
and victories that make you favor.

Well, this is the foundation of a flirt.

Care not to frighten those sympathies by putting springs stick side; matter curb undue expectations
and daring is necessary to tame with due respect at all irreverent purpose, and should finally
attract the Condesito, to see if he loves you and you love him.

- But I do not love him.

- I know you dont love him. Did not I say? He loves you or not. But nobody ever gonna love
you no you love anyone if you keep going? How did you go to if you love as if it were bony
Croaker?

Inesita almost felt defeated. Her sister continued to make very wise and deep reflection, the
girl came to hallucinate and imagine that flirtation, within certain
limits, was a duty, which was missing.

Inesita promised, then follow the advice of her sister far, no violence,
he could, and be a little flirty, with dignity and would learn the
art.

Doña Beatriz certainly gave the following night at the Buen Retiro,
would find the little Count, he would be persecuted and have occasion
to show his ability Inesita, untested for flirtation.

According to Beatriz, all paper Inesita the next night was just saying with the eyes, lazy style
and clear, however, with such art that seem thoughtless phrase and spontaneous, with impeccable
purity and simplicity of intention and without promising anything
to pass friend: "Me you nice, although I deplore it as much as you
are a fool.

I glad to treat you, but for that you want it to be less vain and more restrained, and are then
presented as the good society requires and so it does not crash. "

Inesita argued that his eyes could not reel off as long rant. Doña Beatriz, On the contrary,
claimed that with the eyes said it all without difficulty.

This question was, when knocked Don Braulio, and then entered the room, interrupting the two
sisters.

The man was as he had described the Earl of Alhedín: skinny, bald, small body not pretty, and
though he was only forty-five, seemed to have ten more, because the
work, care and trouble he had aged.

He was dressed in clean and simple. His dark face was wonderful expression of kindness and
intelligence.

His black eyes, only beautiful thing in him, every eye sparkled with bright light and sharp. His
cheeks sunken cheeks were furrowed with wrinkles, but in your mouth, rather large to small,
had strength and spirit, and his thin lips were folded gracefully, providing entertainment to all appearance
and showing two rows of white teeth, healthy and well placed. Don's nose Braulio, though not deformed,
was one if not acaballo or parrot's beak.

Don Braulio had been very tired, and the few words she spoke to women felt all retiring to bed.

The
first one left the room was Dona Beatriz.

Don Braulio was a moment alone with Ines. There came to her and said quietly:

- Agnes, I have to comply with a commission that you have given me.

Take this letter, save and read it to stop and rest. Which requires
written not talk to anyone about the letter, but me if you want.

So your sister has to be a secret. Do you understand? There are also another rare condition.
The answer you give no support to you within a month and begs the same time does not slow to
give it more than four months.

Don Braulio, that said, put the letter in the hands of Ines, and went
where his wife had gone, without waiting to read the letter Inesita
or do him any questions about it.

Seemed Don Braulio also wanted Inesita meditate calmly, before speaking of the important business
letter undoubtedly was.

V

Just looked Inesita was alone in the address of the card, and without emotion, almost a curiosity,
at least perceptible, would open it and read it, when he appeared on the scene a new character,
did the girl keep it rushed the letter in his pocket.

This new character was the mistress Teresa. Love does not ever called him because he had been
breeding but because he had been housekeeper of the parish priest. Was already closer to the
sixties of fifty years, and had looked with great care and affection of Beatrice and Agnes
from they had been orphaned. A much loved them both, but as it had looked Inesita from more
child, and as Inesita was single, had greater familiarity with it
confidence.

By a strange hallucination, more often than we think, the housekeeper,
as if the years had passed in vain, or had not happened, did not see
the woman Inesita already formed, but the girl spoiled little girl
who had both.

Still, therefore, and treating it as mimándola Inesita had five or six years. Their actions
Inesita regarding resented this hallucination, but in his speeches, when he spoke with it, there was
a funny combination of mimes and innocence with which it comes to creatures, and the efforts
of wit and discretion studied with ignorant people and crude attempt
to catch up with those of whose knowledge and intelligence have made
the concept better. At each successive revolution the people were courted--were flattered--were
promised transcendent felicity. The people swore eternal hatred to Monarchy, and eternal fidelity
to Constitutions, till, heaven, weary of their perjuries, sent them a despot in his wrath.

My fellow citizens human nature is the same here as in France--Then before you give ear to
the songs of enchantment Count the Cost--Before you sell your birthright for a mess of pottage
Count the Cost. Before you consent to yield up the institutions of your wise and pious ancestors,
Count the Cost--Before you admit universal suffrage Count the Cost--Before you submit to the
mischievous doctrine of district elections, Count the Cost.--Before you reject from office
the men whom your hearts approve, Count the Cost, the great cost of weak and wicked rulers.--Before
you consent to be governed by men whose impudence, and vice constitute many of their claims
to promotion, Count the Cost. This evil you can prevent by attending with punctuality on our
elections. The freemen of Connecticut are mighty when they arise in their strength. No freeman
can justify absence except from necessity.--That people who will not faithfully attend upon
the Choice of their rulers, cannot expect to retain their freedom.--Trust not to a majority--say
not that things will go well without me--Such language is unbecoming freemen--Despair not of
a majority--if you will not "go with the multitude to do evil," go against them to do good.
Before you neglect an election Count the Cost --If the loss of your Vote should prove the loss
of an election of a single man, then will you not have Counted the Cost.

My fellow citizens--WE have a government which has protected us a Century and an half--we have
enjoyed unexampled prosperity.--WE may transmit a glorious inheritance to posterity.--The writer
has children dear to him as his own blood--these children are to him a sacred deposit--He can,
with confidence, commit their political interests to such a government as Connecticut has enjoyed.--He
is persuaded that if they feel the iron hand of despotism, it will not be from such a government,
and such rulers as we now possess--Before he yields his own, and their dear, and inestimable
rights to the wild projects of the reformers of this age, he is firmly resolved to sit down
and Count the Cost, and he entreats his fellow citizens to adopt similar resolutions.

APPENDIX.

A View of the Fiscal Concerns of Connecticut.

Capital Funds of the Civil List.
                                              Dols. Nothing can be hidden, especially in what touches sex relationships sex, in
the eyes of the gossips dowsers a small town neighborhood. And not only known, but so was given
as a marriage in the more or less distant.
Bonds collaterally secured     -     -     1,020,542  27
New  Lands  received  in  payment of
  School  Bonds, price at which received,    194,000
Funded 6 per cent. Stock, (real capital)      14,048
Deferred --do. - do. -do.      -     -     -   5,455   7
Funded 3 per cent. do.     -     -     -     - 4,570  95

                                           1,238,617  29

Annual Expense of Government.
     Viz.
Salaries of Executive Officers,     -     -    8,630
Debentures and Contingent expenses of
  the Legislature for two  Sessions,     -    17,100
Debenture of the Supreme Court of Errors,        550
Judicial expenses,      -     -     -     -    6,100
Expense of Newgate prison,     -     -     -   4,000
Charges of Paupers and Vagrants,     -     -   4,500
Allowance of 2 dollars on the 1000 of the
 list being a draw-back from the State Tax,   12,000
Contingent Expenses, comprising all other
charges of  Government,     -     -     -      6,200

                                              59,080

Means for defraying the annual expense of the Civil List. 

Again and resolution were bristling with grave inconveniences.

Neither women availing of a vulgar expression, had given rise to nothing. Neither had been
excited, and had encouraged him looking at him, and he had smiled, and had not Showing anger
when followed, when almost stopped when it became blatantly looking at them. The most frigid
indifference had appeared in both women. Been so worthy, so severe, so natural, so without fear
or fuss vulgar female who is honored or presumed to be, as if they were two duchesses and princesses
who have had the whim going out at night to roam the streets and had been persecuted for a few minutes,
by a footman spoiled and vain enough to believe seductive.

And the whole present annual Interest will be 66,855  76 Add to this the allowance of 2 dolls. 

Array of magical invocations

All this constitutes a veritable arsenal of magical invocations, whose effectiveness relies
to prevent evil, free from danger, make a good, achieving grace. As an example the virtue of
the pleas and what can be achieved by simply saying frequently Jesus, Mary, Joseph, who is the "Holy
Trinity of the Earth," are the following cases: (Ninth of Jesus, Mary and Joseph. Manila, 1903).
A man of bad life going in the middle a night in front of a church in San Francisco in Cuzco, Peru,
saw lights in the cemetery and, realizing that it was a funeral, went to the scene to witness. Suddenly
he perceived that there was a throne on which Jesus was sitting in the middle of Mary and Joseph.
Then along came many demons each with his book in his hand. One began its case against a woman
of evil life of Buenos Aires. "Jesus says the ninth She spoke out against the death sentence
along with sudden and eternal damnation. " (P. 7.) Missing the devil to go to execute the
sentence. Another demon read his book In Chile there was another prostitute. "Jesus spoke against
her death sentence and condemnation. "(p. 8.) The devil ran to serve his sentence. The defendant
filed lead to a poor man living in Cuzco, and this was precisely the same man who stopped to
witness the spectacle of the cemetery.
 

= VOLUME III =

COMEDY swashbuckling

House with two doors is to keep
bad .-- .-- La dama duende No jokes like love .-- Morning April and
May.

= VOLUME IV =

COMEDY .-- VARIOUS WORKS

The worst thing is not always true .-- Beware
of still water.

