In the month of October, England lost a worthy nobleman in the death of earl Cowper, who had
twice discharged the office of lord-chancellor, with equal discernment and integrity. He was
profoundly skilled in the laws of his country; in his apprehension quick and penetrating; in
his judgment clear and determinate. He possessed a manly eloquence; his manner was agreeable,
and his deportment graceful. This year was likewise remarkable for the death of the duke of
Orleans, regent of France, who, since the decease of Louis XIV., had ruled that nation with
the most absolute authority. He was a prince of taste and spirit, endowed with shining talents
for empire, which he did not fail to display, even in the midst of effeminate pursuits and
idle debauchery. From the infirm constitution of the infant king, he had conceived hopes of
ascending the throne, and taken his measures accordingly; but the young monarch's health began
to be established, and all the duke's schemes were defeated by an apoplexy, of which he died,
in the fiftieth year of his age, after having nominated the duke of Bourbon as prime-minister.
King George immediately received assurances of the good disposition of the French court, to
cultivate and even improve the good understanding so happily established between France and
Great Britain. The king arrived in England on the eighteenth day of December; and on the ninth
day of January the parliament was assembled. His majesty, in his speech, recommended to the
commons the care of the public debts; and he expressed his satisfaction at seeing the sinking
fund improved and augmented, so as to put the debt of the nation into a method of being speedily
and gradually discharged.

AN ACT FOR LESSENING THE PUBLIC DEBTS.

This was the repeated theory of patriotism, which unhappily for the subjects, was never reduced
to practice; not but that a beginning of such a laudable work was made in this very session,
by an act for lessening the public debts. This law provided that the annuities at five per
cent, charged on the general fund by a former act, except such as had been subscribed into
the South-Sea, together with the unsubscribed blanks of the lottery in the year one thousand
seven hundred and fourteen, should be paid off at Lady-day of the year next ensuing, with the
money arising from the sinking fund. The ministry, however, did not persevere in this path
of prudent economy. The commons granted all the supplies that were demanded. They voted ten
thousand seamen; and the majority, though not without violent opposition, agreed to maintain
four thousand additional troops, which had been raised in the preceding year; so that the establishment
of the land-forces amounted to eighteen thousand two hundred and sixty-four. The expense of
the year was defrayed by a land-tax and malt-tax. The commons having despatched the supply,
took into consideration a grievance arising from protections granted by foreign ministers,
peers and members of parliament, under which profligate persons used to screen themselves from
the prosecution of their just creditors. The commons resolved, That all protections granted
by members of that house should be declared void, and immediately withdrawn. The lords made
a declaration to the same purpose, with an exception to menial servants, and those necessarily
employed about the estates of peers.*

     * The duke of Newcastle was now appointed secretary of
     state; the duke of Grafton, lord-chamberlain; and lord
     Carteret, lord-lieutenant of Ireland.--The king instituted a
     professorship for the modern languages in each university.--
     In the month of May died Robert Harley, earl of Oxford and
     earl Mortimer, who had been a munificent patron of genius
     and literature; and completed a very valuable collection of
     manuscripts.--The practice of inoculation for the small-pox
     was by this time introduced into England from Turkey. Prince
     Frederic, the two princesses Amelia and Carolina, the duke
     of Bedford and his sister, with many other persons of
     distinction, underwent the operation with success.--Dr.
     Henry Sacheverel died in June, after having bequeathed five
     hundred pounds to the late bishop of Rochester.

{1724}

On the twenty-fourth day of April, his majesty closed the session in the usual manner, made
some alterations in the disposition of the great officers of state, and sent Mr. Horatio Walpole
as ambassador-extraordinary to the court of France.

PHILIP, KING OF SPAIN, ABDICATES THE THRONE.

In the beginning of this year, Philip king of Spain, retiring with his queen to the monastery
of St. Ildefonso, sent the marquis of Grimaldi, his principal secretary of state, to his son
Louis prince of Asturias, with a solemn renunciation of the crown, and a letter of advice in
which he exhorted him to cultivate the Blessed Virgin with the warmest devotion, and put himself
and his kingdoms under her protection. The renunciation was published through the whole monarchy
of Spain; and the council of Castile resolved, That Louis might assume the reins of government
without assembling the Cortez. The English minister at Paris was instructed to interpose in
behalf of the French protestants, against whom a severe edict had been lately published; but
his remonstrances produced no effect. England, in the meantime, was quite barren of such events
as deserve a place in history. The government was now firmly established on the neck of opposition;
and commerce flourished even under the load of grievous impositions.

ABUSES IN CHANCERY.

The next parliament, which met on the twelfth day of November, seemed to be assembled for no
other purpose than that of establishing funds for the expense of the ensuing year; yet the
session was distinguished by a remarkable incident--namely, the trial of the earl of Macclesfield,
lord-chancellor of England. This nobleman had connived at certain venal practices touching
the sale of places, and the money of suitors deposited with the masters of chancery, so as
to incur the general reproach of the nation. He found it necessary to resign the great seal
in the beginning of January, 1725. On the ninth day of the ensuing month, the king sent a message
to the commons, importing, That his majesty having reason to apprehend that the suitors in
the court of chancery were in danger of losing a considerable sum of money, from the insufficiency
of some of the masters, thought himself obliged, in justice and compassion to the said sufferers,
to take the most speedy and proper method the law would allow for inquiring into the state
of the master's accounts, and securing their effects for the benefit of the suitors; and his
majesty having had several reports laid before him, in pursuance of the directions he had given,
had ordered the reports to be communicated to the house, that they might have as full and as
perfect a view of this important affair as the shortness of the time, and the circumstances
and nature of the proceedings, would admit.

TRIAL OF THE EARL OF MACCLESFIELD.

These papers being taken into consideration, sir George Oxenden observed, that enormous abuses
had crept into the high court of chancery; that the crimes and misdemeanors of the late lord-chancellor
were many and various, but might be reduced to the following heads --that he had embezzled
the estates and effects of many widows, orphans, and lunatics; that he had raised the offices
of masters in chancery to an exorbitant price; trusting in their hands large sums of money
belonging to suitors, that they might be enabled to comply with his exorbitant demands, and
that in several cases he had made divers irregular orders. He therefore moved, That Thomas
earl of Macclesfield should be impeached of high crimes and misdemeanors. Mr. Pulteney moved,
That this affair might be left to the consideration of a select committee. Sir William Wyndham
asserted, That in proceeding by way of impeachment upon reports from above, they would make
a dangerous precedent; and seem to give up the most valuable of their privileges, the inquest
after state criminals. The question being put, it was carried for the impeachment. The earl
was accordingly impeached at the bar of the upper house; a committee was appointed to prepare
articles; and a bill was brought in, to indemnify the masters in chancery from the penalties
of the law, upon discovering what consideration they had paid for their admission to their
respective offices. The trial lasted twenty days; the earl was convicted of fradulent practices;
and condemned in a fine of thirty thousand pounds, with imprisonment until that sum should
be paid. He was immediately committed to the Tower, where he continued about six weeks; but
upon producing the money he was discharged; and sir Peter King, now created baron of Oakham,
succeeded him in the office of chancellor.

DEBATES ABOUT THE DEBTS OF THE CIVIL LIST.

His majesty, on the eighth day of April, gave the house of commons to understand, that having
been engaged in some extraordinary expenses, he hoped he should be enabled to raise a sum of
money, by making use of the funds lately established for the payment of the civil list annuities,
in order to discharge the debts contracted in the civil government. Mr. Pulteney, cofferer
of the household, moved for an address, That an account should be laid before the house of
all monies paid for secret service, pensions, and bounties, from the twenty-fifth day of March,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and one, to the twenty-fifth of the same month in the
present year. This address being voted, a motion was made to consider the king's message. Mr.
Pulteney urged, that this consideration should be postponed until the house should have examined
the papers that were the subject of the address. He expressed his surprise that a debt amounting
to above five hundred thousand pounds should be contracted in three years; he said, he did
not wonder that some persons should be so eager to make good the deficiencies of the civil-list,
since they and their friends enjoyed such a share of that revenue; and he desired to know whether
this was all that was due, or whether they should expect another reckoning? This gentleman
began to be dissatisfied with the measures of the ministry; and his sarcasms were aimed at
Mr. Walpole, who undertook to answer his objections. The commons took the message into consideration,
and passed a bill, enabling his majesty to raise a sum, not exceeding one million, by exchequer
bills, loans, or otherwise, on the credit of the deductions of sixpence per pound, directed
by an act of parliament of the seventh year of his majesty, and of the civil-list revenues,
at an interest not exceeding three pounds per cent, till repayment of the principal.

BILL IN FAVOUR OF THE LATE LORD BOLINGBROKE.

On the twentieth day of April, a petition was presented to the house by lord Finch in behalf
of Henry St. John, late viscount Bolingbroke, praying that the execution of the law with respect
to his forfeitures might be suspended, as a pardon had suspended it with respect to his life.
Mr. Walpole signified to the house, by his majesty's command, that, seven years before, the
petitioner had made humble application and submission to the king, with assurances of duty,
allegiance, and fidelity; that, from his behaviour since that time, his majesty was convinced
of his being a fit object of his mercy, and consented to his petitioning the house. The petition
being read, Mr. Walpole declared himself fully satisfied that the petitioner had sufficiently
atoned for his past offences; and therefore deserved the favour of that house, so far as to
enable him to enjoy the family inheritance that was settled upon him, which he could not do
by virtue of his majesty's pardon, without an act of parliament. Lord Finch moved, That a bill
might be brought in for this purpose, and was warmly opposed by Mr. Methuen, comptroller of
the household, who represented Bolingbroke as a monster of iniquity. His remonstrance was supported
by lord William Paulet and Mr. Onslow; nevertheless, the bill was prepared, passed through
both houses, and received the royal assent. An act being passed for disarming the highlanders
of Scotland, another for regulating elections within the city of London, a third for reducing
the interest of several bank annuities, together with some bills of a private nature, the parliament
was prorogued in May, after the king had, in the warmest terms of acknowledgment, expressed
his approbation of their conduct. Then he appointed lords-justices to govern the nation in
his absence; and set out in June for his German dominions.*

     * On the fifth day of December the princess of Wales was
     delivered of a princess, christened by the name of Lotvisa,
     and afterwards married to the king of Denmark. She died
     December the nineteenth, one thousand seven hundred and
     fifty-one.--Immediately after the session of parliament, the
     king revived the order of the Bath, thirty-eight in number,
     including the sovereign.--William Bateman was created baron
     of Calmore in Ireland, and viscount Bateman; and sir Kobert
     Walpole, who had been one of the revived knights of the
     Bath, was now honoured with the order of the Garter.

TREATY OF ALLIANCE.

The tide of political interest on the continent had begun to flow in a new channel, so as to
render ineffectual the mounds which his Britannic majesty had raised by his multiplicity of
negotiations. Louis, the Spanish monarch, dying soon after his elevation to the throne, his
father Philip resumed the crown which he had resigned, and gave himself up implicitly to the
conduct of his queen, who was a princess of indefatigable intrigue and insatiate ambition.
The infanta, who had been married to Louis XV. of France, was so disagreeable to her husband,
that the whole French nation began to be apprehensive of a civil war in consequence of his
dying without male issue; he therefore determined, with the advice of his council, to send
back the infanta, as the nuptials had not been consummated; and she was attended to Madrid
by the marquis de. Monteleone. The queen of Spain resented this insult offered to her daughter;
and, in revenge, dismissed mademoiselle de Beaujolois, one of the regent's daughters, who had
been betrothed to her son don Carlos. As the congress at Cambray had proved ineffectual, she
offered to adjust her differences with the emperor, under the sole mediation of Great Britain.
This was an honour which king George declined. He was averse to any undertaking that might
interrupt the harmony subsisting between him and the court of Versailles; and he had taken
umbrage at the emperor's refusing to grant the investiture of Bremen and Verden except upon
terms which he did not choose to embrace. The peace between the courts of Vienna and Madrid,
which he refused to mediate, was effected by a private negotiation, under the management of
the duke de Ripperda, a native of the states-general, who had renounced the protestant religion,
and entered into the service of his catholic majesty. By two treaties, signed at Vienna in
the month of April, the emperor acknowledged Philip as king of Spain and the Indies, promised
that he would not molest him in the possession of those dominions that were secured to him
by the treaty of Utrecht. Philip renounced all pretensions to the dominions in Italy and the
Netherlands, adjudged to the emperor by the treaty of London; Charles granted the investiture
of the dukedoms of Tuscany, Parma, and Placentia, to the eldest son of the queen of Spain,
in default of heirs in the present possessors, as masculine fiefs of the empire. Spain became
guarantee of the Austrian succession, according to the pragmatic sanction, by which the dominions
of that house were settled on the emperors's heirs general, and declared to be a perpetual,
indivisible, and inseparable feoffment of the primogeniture. By the commercial treaty of Vienna,
the Austrian subjects were entitled to advantages in trade with Spain, which no other nation
enjoyed. His catholic majesty guaranteed the Ostend East India company; and agreed to pay an
annual subsidy of four millions of piastres to the emperor. Great sums were remitted to Vienna;
the Imperial forces were augmented to a formidable number; and other powers were solicited
to engage in this alliance, to which the court of Petersburgh actually acceded.

TREATY OF HANOVER.

The kind of Great Britain took the alarm. The emperor and he had for some time treated each
other with manifest coolness. He had reason to fear some attempts upon his German dominions,
and projected a defensive treaty with France and Prussia. This alliance, limited to the term
of fifteen years, was negotiated and concluded at Hanover in the month of September. It implied
a mutual guarantee of the dominions possessed by the contracting parties, their rights and
privileges, those of commerce in particular, and an engagement to procure satisfaction to the
protestants of Thorn, who had lately been oppressed by the catholics, contrary to the treaty
of Oliva. The king having taken these precautions at Hanover, set out on his return for England;
embarked at Helvoetsluys in the middle of December; and after having been exposed to the fury
of a dreadful storm, was landed with great difficulty at Rye, from whence he proceeded by land
to London. The parliament meeting on the twentieth day of the next month, he gave them to understand
that the distressed condition of some of their protestant brethren abroad, and the negotiations
and engagements contracted by some foreign powers, which seemed to have laid the foundation
of new troubles and disturbances in Europe, and to threaten his subjects with the loss of several
of the most advantageous branches of their trade, had obliged him to concert with other powers
such measures as might give a check to the ambitious views of those who were endeavouring to
render themselves formidable, and put a stop to the further progress of such dangerous designs.
He told them that the enemies of his government were already very busy, by their instruments
and emissaries in those courts whose measures seemed most to favour their purposes, in soliciting
and promoting the cause of the pretender. One sees, at first sight, that the interests of Germany
dictated the treaty of Hanover; but, in order to secure the approbation of Great Britain, upon
which the support of this alliance chiefly depended, it was judged necessary to insert the
articles relating to commerce and the protestant religion, as if the engagement had been contracted
purely for the advantage and glory of England. In a word, the ministry began now to ring the
changes upon a few words that have been repeated ever since, like cabalistical sounds, by which
the nation has been enchanted into a very dangerous connexion with the concerns of the continent.
They harangued, they insisted upon the machinations of the disaffected, the designs of a popish
pretender, the protestant interest, and the balance of power, until these expressions became
absolutely terms of ridicule with every person of common sense and reflection. The people were
told that the emperor and the king of Spain, exclusive of the public treaties concluded at
Vienna, had entered into private engagements, importing that the Imperialists should join the
Spaniards in recovering Gibraltar and Port-Mahon by force of arms, in case the king of England
should refuse to restore them amicably, according to a solemn promise he had made: that a double
marriage should take place between the two infants of Spain, and the two archduchesses of Austria;
and that means should be taken to place the pretender on the throne of Great Britain.

When the treaties of Vienna and Hanover fell under consideration of the house of commons, Horatio
Walpole, afterwards termed in derision, "the balance master," opened the debate with a long
unanimated oration, giving a detail of the affairs of Europe since the treaty of Utrecht. He
enumerated the barrier-treaty, the convention for executing that treaty, the defensive alliance
with the emperor, the other with the most christian king and the states-general, another convention,
the quadruple alliance, the congress at Cambray, the treaty of Hanover, and that of Vienna.
He explained the nature of each engagement. He said the main design of the treaty of commerce
concluded between the emperor and the king of Spain, was to countenance and support the East-India
company established at Ostend, which interfered so essentially with the East-India companies
of England and Holland, and was directly contrary to several solemn treaties still in force.
He enlarged upon the danger to which the balance of power would be exposed, should the issue
male of this projected marriage between the houses of Austria and Spain ever possess the imperial
dignity and the kingdom of Spain together. The reader will take notice that this very man was
one of those who exclaimed against that article of the treaty of Utrecht, which prevented the
power of those two houses from being immediately united in the person of the emperor. He did
not forget to expatiate upon the pretended secret engagement concerning Gibraltar and Minorca,
and the king's pious concern for the distressed protestants of Thorn in Poland. In vain did
Mr. Shippen urge that the treaty of Hanover would engage the British nation in a war for the
defence of the king's German dominions, contrary to an express provision made in the act of
limitation. These arguments had lost all weight. The opposition was so inconsiderable, that
the ministry had no reason to be in pain about any measure they should propose. An address
was voted and delivered to his majesty, approving the alliance he had concluded at Hanover,
in order to obviate and disappoint the dangerous views and consequences of the treaty of peace
betwixt the emperor and the king of Spain: and promising to support his majesty against all
insults and attacks that should be made upon any of his territories, though not belonging to
the crown of Great Britain. An address of the same kind was presented by the house of lords
in a body. A bill was brought in, empowering the commissioners of the treasury to compound
with Mr. Richard Hampden, late treasurer of the navy, for a debt he owed to the crown, amounting
to eight-and-forty thousand pounds. This deficiency was occasioned by his embarking in the
South-Sea scheme. The king recommended his petition; and the house complied with his request,
in consideration of his great-grandfather, the famous John Hampden, who made such a noble stand
against the arbitrary measures of the first Charles.

{GEORGE I, 1714--1727}

RIOTS IN SCOTLAND.

The malt-tax was found so grievous to Scotland, that the people refused to pay it, and riots
were excited in different parts of the kingdom. At Glasgow, the populace, armed with clubs
and staves, rifled the house of Daniel Campbell, their representative in parliament, who had
voted for the bill, and maltreated some excisemen who attempted to take an account of the malt.
General Wade, who commanded the forces in Scotland, had sent two companies of soldiers, under
the command of captain Bushel, to prevent or appease a disturbance of this nature. That officer
drew up his men in the street, where they were pelted with stones by the multitude, which he
endeavoured to disperse by firing among them without shot. This expedient failing, he ordered
his men to load their pieces with ball, and at a time when the magistrates were advancing towards
him in a body, to assist him with their advice and influence, he commanded the soldiers to
fire four different ways, without the sanction of the civil authority. About twenty persons
were killed or wounded on this occasion. The people seeing so many victims fall, were exasperated
beyond all sense of danger. They began to procure arms, and breathed nothing but defiance and
revenge. Bushel thought proper to retreat to the castle of Dumbarton, and was pursued above
five miles hy the enraged multitude. General Wade being informed of this transaction, assembled
a body of forces; and being accompanied by Duncan Forbes, lord-advocate, took possession of
Glasgow. The magistrates were apprehended and conveyed prisoners to Edinburgh, where the lords
justiciary having taken cognizance of the affair, declared them innocent; so that they were
immediately discharged. Bushel was tried for murder, convicted, and condemned; but instead
of undergoing the penalties of the law, he was indulged with a pardon, and promoted in the
service. Daniel Campbell having petitioned the house of commons, that he might be indemnified
for the damage he had sustained from the rioters, a bill passed in his favour, granting him
a certain sum to be raised from an imposition laid upon all the beer and ale brewed in the
city of Glasgow. The malt-tax was so sensibly felt in Scotland, that the convention of the
royal burghs presented a remonstrance against it, as a grievous burden, which their country
could not bear: petitions to the same purpose were delivered to the commons from from different
shires in that kingdom.

{1726}

On the twenty-fourth day of March, the king sent a message to the house by sir Paul Methuen,
desiring an extraordinary supply, that he might be able to augment his maritime force, and
concert such other measures as should be necessary in the present conjuncture. A debate ensued,
but the majority complied with the demand. Some members in the upper house complained that
the message was not sent to both houses of parliament, and this suggestion gave rise to another
debate, in which lord Bathurst and others made some melancholy reflections upon the state of
insignificance to which the peers of England were reduced. Such remarks, however, were very
little minded by the ministry, who had obtained a complete victory over all opposition. The
supplies, ordinary and extraordinary, being granted, with every thing else which the court
thought proper to ask, and several bills passed for the regulation of civil economy, the king
dismissed the parliament on the twenty-fourth day of May.

A SQUADRON SENT TO THE BALTIC.

By this time Peter the czar of Muscovy was dead, and his empress Catharine had succeeded him
on the Russian throne. This princess had begun to assemble forces in the neighbourhood of Petersburgh,
and to prepare a formidable armament for a naval expedition. King George, concluding that her
design was against Sweden, sent a strong squadron into the Baltic, under the command of sir
Charles Wager, in order to anticipate her views upon his allies. The English fleet being joined
at Copenhagen by a Danish squadron, alarmed the court of Russia, which immediately issued orders
for reinforcing the garrisons of Wilbourg, Cronstadt, Revel, and Riga. The English admiral,
having had an audience with his Swedish majesty, steered towards Revel, and sent thither a
lieutenant, with a letter from the king of Great Britain to the czarina. This was an expostulation,
in which his majesty observed, that he and his allies could not fail of being alarmed at her
great preparations by sea and land. He complained that measures had been taken at her court
in favour of the pretender; that his repeated instances for establishing a lasting friendship
with the crown of Russia had been treated with neglect; and he gave her to understand, that
he had ordered his admiral to prevent her ships from coming out of her harbours, should she
persist in her resolution to execute the designs she had projected. The czarina, in her answer
to the king, expressed her surprise that she had not received his majesty's letter until his
fleet was at anchor before Revel, since it would have been more agreeable to the custom established
among sovereigns, and to the amity which had so long subsisted between her kingdoms and the
crown of Great Britain, to expostulate with her on her armament, and expected her answer before
he had proceeded to such an offensive measure. She assured him that nothing was farther from
her thoughts than any design to disturb the peace of the North; and with regard to the pretender,
it was a frivolous and stale accusation, which had been frequently used as a pretext to cover
all the unkind steps lately undertaken against the Russian empire. Sir Charles Wager continued
in his station until he received certain intelligence that the Russian galleys were laid up
in their winter harbour; then he set sail for the coast of Denmark, from whence he returned
to England in the month of November.

ADMIRAL HOSIER'S EXPEDITION.

King George, that he might not seem to convert all his attention to the affairs of the North,
had equipped two other squadrons, one of which was destined for the West Indies, under the
command of admiral Hosier: the other, conducted by sir John Jennings, having on board a body
of land-forces, sailed from St. Helen's on the twentieth day of July, entered the bay of St.
Antonio, then visited Lisbon, from whence he directed his course to the bay of Bulls near Cadiz,
and cruised off Cape St. Mary's, so as to alarm the coast of Spain and fill Madrid with consternation.
Yet he committed no act of hostility: but was treated with great civility by the Spanish governor
of Cadiz, who supplied him with refreshments. Rear-admiral Hosier, with seven ships of war,
had sailed in April for the Spanish West-Indies, with instructions to block up the galleons
in the port of that country; or should they presume to come out, to seize and bring them to
England. Before his arrival at the Bastimentos, near Porto-Bello, the treasure, consisting
of above six millions sterling, had been unloaded and carried back to Panama, in pursuance
of an order sent by an advice-boat which had the start of Hosier. This admiral lay inactive
on that station, until he became the jest of the Spaniards. He returned to Jamaica, where he
found means to reinforce his crews; then he stood over to Carthagena. The Spaniards had by
this time seized the English South-Sea ship at La Vera Cruz, together with all the vessels
and effects belonging to that company. This brave officer, being restricted by his orders from
obeying the dictates of his courage, seeing his best officers and men daily swept off by an
outrageous distemper, and his ships exposed to inevitable destruction, is said to have died
of a broken heart; while the people of England loudly clamoured against this unfortunate expedition,
in which so many lives were thrown away, and so much money expended, without the least advantage
to the nation. It seems to have been a mean piratical scheme to rob the court of Spain of its
expected treasure, even while a peace subsisted between the two nations. The ministry of Great
Britain indeed alleged, that the Spanish king had entered into engagements in favour of the
pretender.

DISGRACE OF THE DUKE DE RIPPERDA.

The dukes of Ormond and Wharton,* and the earl Marischal, were certainly at Madrid; and the
duke de Ripperda, now prime-minister of Spain, dropped some expressions to the English envoy
that implied some such design, which however the court of Madrid positively denied.

     * The duke of Wharton having consumed his fortune in riot
     and extravagance, repaired to the court of Vienna, from
     whence he proceeded to Rome, and offered his service to the
     pretender. There he received the order of the garter, and
     the title of duke of Northumberland. He was sent by the
     chevalier de St. George with credentials to the court of
     Madrid, where he abjured the protestant religion, married a
     lady of the queen of Spain's bed-chamber, and obtained the
     rank and appointment of a lieutenant-colonel in the Spanish
     service.

Ripperda, as a foreigner, fell a sacrifice to the jealousy of the Spanish ministers. He was
suddenly dismissed from his employments, with a pension of three thousand pistoles. He forthwith
took refuge in the house of Vandermeer the Dutch ambassador, who was unwilling to be troubled
with such a guest. He therefore conveyed the duke in his coach to the house of colonel Stanhope,
the British minister, whose protection he craved and obtained. Nevertheless, he was dragged
from thence by force, and committed prisoner to the castle of Segovia. He afterwards made his
escape, and sheltered himself in England from the resentment of his catholic majesty. Colonel
Stanhope complained of this violation of the law of nations, which the Spanish ministers endeavoured
to excuse. Memorials and letters passed between the two courts, and every thing tended to a
rupture. The king of Spain purchased ships of war; began to make preparations for some important
undertaking; and assembled an army of twenty thousand men at St. Roch, on pretence of rebuilding
the old castle of Gibraltar. Meanwhile the states-general and the king of Sweden acceded to
the treaty of Hanover: but the king of Prussia, though his majesty's son-in-law, was detached
from the alliance by the emperor, with whom he contracted new engagements.

SUBSTANCE OF THE KING'S SPEECH.

On the seventeenth day of January, the British parliament was opened with a long elaborate
speech, importing that the proceedings and transactions of the emperor and king of Spain, and
the secret offensive alliance concluded between them, had laid the foundation of a most exorbitant
and formidable power; that they were directly levelled against the most valuable and darling
interests and privileges of the British nation, which must either give up Gibraltar to Spain,
and acquiesce in the emperor's usurped exercise of commerce, or resolve vigorously to defend
their undoubted rights against those reciprocal engagements, contracted in defiance and violation
of all national faith, and the most solemn treaties. He assured them, that one of those secret
articles was the placing the pretender on the throne of Great Britain; and another the conquest
of Gibraltar and Port Mahon. He affirmed that those combinations extended themselves into Russia;
and that the English fleet seasonably prevented such designs as would have opened a way to
the invasion of these kingdoms. He exhorted the commons to grant such supplies as should be
necessary for the defence of then-country, and for making good his engagements with the allies
of Great Britain. He told them that the king of Spain had ordered his minister residing in
England to quit the kingdom; and that he had left a memorial little short of a declaration,
in which he insisted upon the restitution of Gibraltar. He did not fail to touch the energetic
strings which always moved their passions: the balance of power in Europe, the security of
the British commerce, the designs of a popish pretender, the present happy establishment, the
religion, liberties, and properties of a protestant people. Such addresses of thanks were penned
in both houses as the ministers were pleased to dictate; yet not without opposition from a
minority, which was far from being formidable, though headed by chiefs of uncommon talents
and resolution. The commons voted twenty thousand seamen, besides six-and-twenty thousand three
hundred and eighty-three men for the land service; and, to defray the extraordinary expense,
a land-tax of four shillings in the pound was granted.

{GEORGE I, 1714--1727}

DEBATE IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS.

The house of lords having taken into consideration the letters and memorials between the ministers
of Great Britain, France, and Spain, and the papers relating to the accession of the states-general
to the treaty of Hanover, a warm debate ensued. Lord Bathurst took notice that the accession
of the states-general to the treaty was upon condition that this their act should be approved
and ratified by the king of Great Britain, the most christian king, and the king of Prussia;
but that the minister of his Prussian majesty had refused to sign the act of accession, which
was therefore of no effect: that if the court of France should, for the same reason, think
itself disengaged from the Hanover alliance, Britain alone would be obliged to bear the burden
of an expensive war against two of the greatest potentates of Europe. He said he could not
see any just reason for a rupture with Spain; that indeed the duke de Ripperda might have dropped
some indiscreet expressions; he was known to be a man of violent temper; and he had been solemnly
disavowed by his catholic majesty; that, in the memorial left by the Spanish ambassador, he
imputed the violent state of affairs between the two crowns to the ministers of England; and
mentioned a positive promise made by the king of Great Britain for the restitution of Gibraltar;
that methods of accommodation might be tried before the kingdom engaged in a war which must
be attended with dangerous consequences; that the nation was loaded with a debt of fifty millions;
and, in order to maintain such a war, would be obliged to raise seven millions yearly; an annual
sum by which the people would soon be exhausted. He observed, that in some papers laid before
the house, mention was made of great sums distributed in divers places, to bring certain measures
to bear. He declared, that for his own part, he had touched neither Spanish nor English gold;
he was neither a Spaniard nor a Frenchman, but a true Englishman, and so long as he had the
honour to sit in that house, he would speak and act for the good of his country. He therefore
desired their lordships seriously to consider the matter before them, which was of the last
consequence and importance to the whole nation. He said nothing could be gained by the war,
should it prove successful: and every thing would be lost should it be unprosperous. He was
answered by lord Town-shend, Who affirmed that his majesty had received positive and certain
information with respect to the secret article of alliance between the courts of Vienna and
Madrid, in favour of the pretender, though the safety of the state did not permit him to lay
these advices before the parliament. After much altercation, the majority resolved, that the
measures his majesty had thought fit to take were honourable, just, and necessary for preventing
the execution of the dangerous engagement entered into in favour of the pretender; for preserving
the dominions belonging to the crown of Great Britain by solemn treaties, and particularly
those of Gibraltar and the island of Minorca; and for maintaining to his people their most
valuable rights and privileges of commerce, and the peace and tranquillity of Europe. Seventeen
lords entered a protest against this resolution. Disputes of the same nature arose from the
same subject in the lower house. Lord Townshend had affirmed in the house of peers, that no
promise of restoring Gibraltar bad been made: sir Kobert Walpole owned such a promise in the
house of commons: a motion was made for an address, desiring these engagements might be laid
before the house; another member moved for a copy of the memorial presented by Mr. Pointz to
the king of Sweden, and for the secret offensive article between the courts of Vienna and Madrid;
a third motion was made to address the king for such memorials and representations from the
courts of Sweden and Denmark, as induced him, in the course of the preceding year, to send
a squadron to the Baltic. In the account of the money granted for the service of the last year,
there was an article of one hundred and twenty-five thousand pounds charged in general terms
as issued out for other engagements and expenses, over and above such as were specified. Mr.
Pulteney moved for an address on this subject; but each of these motions was rejected on a
division: and the majority concurred in an address of thanks to his majesty, for the great
wisdom of his conduct. They expressed the most implicit confidence in his goodness and discretion:
they promised to support him in all such further measures as he should find necessary and expedient
for preventing a rupture, as well as for consulting the honour and advantage of these kingdoms.

His majesty's speech gave such umbrage to the court of Vienna, that Mr. Palms, the Imperial
resident at London, was ordered to present a warm memorial to the king, and afterwards to publish
it to the whole nation. In this bold remonstrance, the king was charged with having declared
from the throne, as certain and undoubted facts, several things that were either wrested, misrepresented,
or void of all foundation. The memorialist affirmed, that the treaty of Vienna was built on
the quadruple alliance; that the treaty of commerce was calculated to promote the mutual and
lawful advantages of the subjects of both parties, agreeably to the law of nations; and in
no respect prejudicial to the British nation. He declared that there was no offensive alliance
concluded between the two crowns; that the supposed article relating to the pretender was an
absolute falsehood; that the insinuation with respect to the siege of Gibraltar was equally
untrue, his master having made no engagements with the king of Spain, but such as were specified
in the treaty communicated to his Britannic majesty. He said, however, the hostilities notoriously
committed in the West Indies, and elsewhere, against the king of Spain, in violation of treaties,
seemed to justify that prince's undertaking the siege of Gibraltar. Finally, he demanded, in
the name of his Imperial majesty, suitable reparation for the injury his honour had sustained
from such calumnious imputations. Both houses of parliament expressed their indignation at
the insolence of this memorial, in an address to his majesty; and Mr. Palms was ordered to
depart the kingdom. Virulent declarations were presented by the ministers of the emperor and
the king of Great Britain to the diet of the empire at Ratisbon; and such personal reflections
retorted between these two potentates, that all hope of reconciliation vanished.

CONVENTIONS WITH SWEDEN AND HESSE-CASSEL.

King George, in order to secure himself against the impending storm, entered into more strict
engagements with the French king; and agreed to pay fifty thousand pounds for three years to
the king of Sweden, in consideration of that prince's holding in readiness a body of ten thousand
troops for the occasions of the alliance. He concluded a fresh treaty with the king of Denmark,
who promised to furnish a certain number of auxiliaries, on account of a large subsidy granted
by the king of France. The proportions of troops to be sent into the field in case of a rupture
were ascertained. His Britannic majesty engaged for four-and-twenty thousand men, and a strong
squadron to be sent into the Baltic. He made a convention with the prince of Hesse-Cassel,
who undertook to provide eight thousand infantry, and four thousand horse, in consideration
of seventy-four thousand pounds, to be paid by Great Britain immediately, and fifty thousand
pounds more in case the troops should bo required, besides their pay and subsistence. Such
was the fruit of all the alliances so industriously planned since the accession of king George
to the throne of Great Britain. In the day of his trouble the king of Prussia, who had espoused
his daughter, deserted his interest; and the states-general stood aloof. For the security of
his German dominions, he had recourse to the king of France, who was a precarious ally; to
the kings of Sweden and Denmark, and the principality of Hesse-Cassel: but none of these powers
would contribute their assistance without being gratified with exorbitant subsidies, though
the danger was common, and the efforts ought to have been equal. Instead of allies, they professed
themselves mercenaries. Great Britain paid them for the defence of their own dominions: she,
moreover, undertook to maintain a powerful fleet for their safety. Is there any Britain so
weak as to think, or so fool-hardy as to affirm, that this was a British quarrel?

{1727}

VOTE OF CREDIT.

For the support of those expensive treaties, Mr. Scroope, secretary of the treasury, moved
in the house of commons, that in the malt-tax bill they should insert a clause of appropriation,
empowering the king to apply such sums as should be necessary for defraying the expenses and
engagements which had been, or should be made before the twenty-fifth day of September, in
concerting such measures as he should think most conducive to the security of trade, and restoring
the peace of Europe. To little purpose did the members in the opposition urge that this method
of asking and granting supplies was unparliamentary; that such a clause would render ineffectual
that appropriation of the public money, which the wisdom of all parliaments had thought a necessary
security against misapplication, which was the more to be feared as no provision was made to
call any person to account for the money that should be disposed of by virtue of this clause;
that great sums had already been granted; that such an unlimited power ought never to be given
in a free government; that such confidence in the crown might, through the influence of evil
ministers, be attended with the most dangerous consequences; that the constitution could not
be preserved, but by a strict adherence to those essential parliamentary forms of granting
supplies upon estimates, and of appropriating these supplies to services and occasions publicly
avowed and judged necessary; that such clauses, if not seasonably checked, would become so
frequent as in time to lodge in the crown and in the ministers an absolute and uncontrollable
power of raising money upon the people, which by the constitution is, and with safety can only
be, lodged in the whole legislature. The motion was carried, the clause added, and the bill
passed through the other house without amendment, though not without opposition. Notwithstanding
this vote of credit, sir William Yonge moved, that towards the supply granted to the king,
the sum of three hundred and seventy thousand pounds should be raised by loans on exchequer
bills, to be charged on the surplus of the duties on coal and culm, which was reserved for
the parliament's disposal. Though this motion was vigorously opposed by sir Joseph Jekyll and
Mr. Pulteney, as a dangerous deviation from several votes and acts of parliament, by which
the exceed-ings of the public funds were appropriated to the discharge of the national debt,
or to the increase of the sinking fund, it was carried by the majority.

SIEGE OF GIBRALTAR

On the fifteenth day of May the parliament was prorogued, after the king had acknowledged their
zeal, liberality, and despatch; and given them to understand that the siege of Gibraltar was
actually begun. The trenches were opened before this fortress on the eleventh day of February,
by the Conde de las Torres, at the head of twenty thousand men. The place was well provided
for a defence; and the old earl of Portmore, who was governor, embarked with a reinforcement
from England, under convoy of a fleet commanded by sir Charles Wager. He arrived at Gibraltar
in the beginning of April, where he landed the troops, with a great quantity of ammunition,
warlike stores, and four-and-twenty pieces of cannon. At the same time, five hundred men arrived
from Minorca; so that the garrison amounted to six thousand, plentifully supplied with fresh
provisions from the coast of Barbary, and treated the efforts of the besiegers with great contempt.
The states-general, being apprehensive of an attempt upon their barrier in the Netherlands,
desired the king would hold in readiness the ten thousand auxiliaries stipulated in the treaty.
These were immediately prepared for embarkation, and the forces of England were augmented with
thirty new raised companies. Sir John Norris set sail with a powerful fleet for the Baltic,
and was joined by a Danish squadron; but the czarina dying on the seventeenth day of May, he
had no occasion to commit hostilities, as the Russian armament was laid aside.

PRELIMINARIES OF PEACE.

Meanwhile the powers at variance, though extremely irritated against each other, were all equally
averse to a war that might again embroil all Europe. The king of France interposed his mediation,
which was conducted by the duke de Richlieu, his ambassador at Vienna. Plans and counterplans
of pacification were proposed between the two crowns and the allies. At length all parties
agreed to twelve preliminary articles which were signed in May at Paris, by the ministers of
the Hanoverian alliance, and afterwards at Vienna, by the Imperial and Spanish ambassadors.
These imported, that hostilities should immediately cease; that the charter of the Ostend company
should be suspended for seven years; and that a congress should in four months be opened at
Aix-la-Chapelle, for adjusting all differences, and consolidating the peace of Europe. This
congress was afterwards transferred to Soissons, for the conveniency of the French minister,
whose presence was necessary at court. The siege of Gibraltar was raised, after it had lasted
four months, during which the Spaniards lost a great number of men by sickness, while the garrison
sustained very little damage. The court of Madrid, however, started some new difficulties,
and for some time would not consent to the restitution of the South-Sea ship, which had been
detained at La Vera-Cruz, in the West Indies; so that sir Charles Wager continued to cruise
on the coast of Spain: but these objections were removed in the sequel.

DEATH AND CHARACTER OF GEORGE I.

King George, having appointed a regency, embarked at Greenwich on the third day of June, and
landing in Holland on the seventh, set out on his journey to Hanover. He was suddenly seized
with a paralytic disorder on the road: he forthwith lost the faculty of speech, became lethargic,
and was conveyed in a state of insensibility to Osnabruck. There he expired on Sunday the eleventh
day of June, in the sixty-eighth year of his age, and in the thirteenth of his reign.--George
I. was plain and simple in his person and address, grave and composed in his deportment, though
easy, familiar, and facetious in his hours of relaxation. Before he ascended the throne of
Great Britain, he had acquired the character of a circumspect general, a just and merciful
prince, a wise politician, who perfectly understood, and steadily pursued, his own interest.
With these qualities, it cannot be doubted but that he came to England extremely well disposed
to govern his new subjects according to the maxims of the British constitution, and the genius
of the people; and if ever he seemed to deviate from these principles, we may take it for granted
that he was misled by the venal suggestions of a ministry whose power and influence were founded
on corruption. [229] [See note 2 I, at the end of this Vol.]

NOTES:

[Footnote 206: Note 2 H, p. 206. The pretender, who resided at Urbino, having received intelligence
from Paris, that there was a design formed against his life, pope Clement XL gave directions
that all foreigners in that neighbourhood, especially English, should be arrested. The earl
of Peterborough arriving at Bologna, with a few armed followers, was seized with all his papers.
Being interrogated, he said he came to pass some time in Italy for the benefit of the air.
He was close confined for a whole month in fort Urbino, and his attendants were sent to prison.
Nothing appearing to justify the suspicion, he was dismissed with uncommon civility. The king
demanding reparation for this insult, the pope wrote with his own hand a letter to an ally
of Great Britain, declaring that the legate of Bologna had violently and unjustly, without
the knowledge of his holiness, caused the earl of Peterborough to be seized upon suspicions
which proved to be ill-grounded. The cardinal legate sent a declaration to the English admiral
in the Mediterranean, that he had asked forgiveness of his holiness, and now begged pardon
of his Britannic majesty, for having unadvisedly arrested a peer of Great Britain on his travels.]

[Footnote 229: Note 2 I, p. 229. George I. married the princess Sophia Dorothy, daughter and
heiress of the duke of Zell, by whom he had king George II. and the late queen of Prussia.
The king's body was conveyed to Hanover, and interred among his ancestors. From the death of
Charles II. to this period, England had made a considerable figure in every branch of literature.
Dr. Atterbury and Dr. Clarke distinguished themselves in divinity--Mr. Whiston wrote in defence
of Arianism--John Locke shone forth the great restorer of human reason--the earl of Shaftesbury
raised an elegant, though feeble, system of moral philosophy--Berkeley, afterwards bishop of
Cloyne in Ireland, surpassed all his contemporaries in subtle and variety of metaphysical arguments,
as well as in the art of deduction--lord Bolingbroke's talents as a metaphysician have been
questioned since his posthumous works appeared--great progress was made in mathematics and
astronomy, by Wallis, Halley, and Flamstead--the art of medicine owed some valuable improvements
to the classical Dr. Friend, and the elegant Dr. Mead. Among the poets of this era, we number
John Philips, author of a didactic poem, called Cyder, a performance of real merit; he lived
and died in obscurity--William Congreve, celebrated for his comedies, which are not so famous
for strength of character and power of humour, as for wit, elegance, and regularity--Vanburgh,
who wrote with more nature and fire, though with less art and precision--Steele, who in his
comedies successfully engrafted modern characters on the ancient drama--Farquhar, who drew
his pictures from fancy rather than from nature, and whose chief merit consists in the agreeable
pertness and vivacity of his dialogue--Addison, whose fame as a poet greatly exceeded his genius,
which was cold and enervate; though he yielded to none in the character of an essayist, either
for style or matter--Swift, whose muse seems to have been mere misanthropy; he was a cynic
rather than a poet, and his natural dryness and sarcastic severity would have been unpleasing,
had not he qualified them, by adopting the extravagant humour of Lueian and Rabelais--Prior,
lively, familiar, and amusing--Rowe, solemn, florid, and declamatory--Pope, the prince of lyric
poetry; unrivalled in satire, ethics, and polished versification--the agreeable Parnel--the
wild, the witty, and the whimsical Garth--Gay, whose fables may vie with those of La Fontaine,
in native humour, ease, and simplicity, and whose genius for pastoral was truly original. Dr.
Bentley stood foremost in the list of critics and commentators. Sir Christopher Wren raised
some noble monuments of architecture. The most remarkable political writers were Davenant,
Hare, Swift, Steele, Addison, Bolingbroke, and Trenchard.]

CONTINUATION

OF

THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND,

BY TOBIAS SMOLLETT, M.D.

GEORGE II.

{1727}

CHAPTER I.

     George II. ascends the Throne of Great Britain.....
     Characters of the principal Persons concerned in the
     ministry..... Debates in Parliament concerning the Civil-
     list..... Changes and Promotions..... New Parliament.....
     Violent Dispute concerning the National Debt..... Vote of
     Credit..... A double Marriage between the Houses of Spain
     and Portugal..... liberality of the Commons..... Debates on
     the Subsidies of Hesse-Cassel and Wolfenbuttle.....
     Committee for inspecting the Gaols----Address touching the
     Spanish Depredations..... A Sum voted to the King on account
     of Arrears due on the Civil-list Revenue..... Proceedings in
     the House of Lords..... Wise conduct of the Irish
     Parliament..... Abdication of the King of Sardinia.....
     Death of Pope Benedict XIII..... Substance of the King's
     Speech to both Houses..... Objections to the Treaty of
     Seville in the House of Lords..... Opposition in the Lower
     House to a standing Army..... Bill prohibiting Loans to
     Foreign Princes or States..... Charter of the East-India
     Company prolonged..... The Emperor resents the Treaty of
     Seville..... Seven Indian Chiefs arrive in England.....
     Revolution at Constantinople..... England infested with
     Robbers, Assassins, and Incendiaries..... Bill against
     Pensioners sitting as Members in the House of Commons.....
     Treaty of Vienna..... Death of the Duke of Parma..... Don
     Carlos takes Possession of his Territories--France
     distracted by religious Disputes..... The Ministry violently
     opposed in Parliament..... Debate on a standing Army.....
     Account of the Charitable Corporation..... Revival of the
     Salt-tax..... Mr. Pulteney's name struck out of the List of
     Privy-counsellors..... The King sets out for Hanover

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

GEORGE II. ASCENDS THE THRONE.

At the accession of George II. the nation had great reason to wish for an alteration of measures.
The public debt, notwithstanding the boasted economy and management of the ministers; notwithstanding
the sinking fund, which had been extolled as a growing treasure sacred to the discharge of
national incumbrances, was now increased to fifty millions two hundred and sixty-one thousand
two hundred and six pounds, nineteen shillings and eightpence three farthings. The kingdom
was bewildered in a labyrinth of treaties and conventions, by which it stood engaged in pecuniary
subsidies to many powers upon the continent, with whom its real interests could never be connected.
The wealth of the nation had been lavished upon those foreign connexions, upon unnecessary
wars, and fruitless expeditions. Dangerous encroachments had been made upon the constitution,
by the repeal of the act for triennial parliaments; by frequent suspensions of the habeas-corpus
act upon frivolous occasions; by repealing clauses in the act of settlement; by votes of credit;
by habituating the people to a standing army; and, above all, by establishing a system of corruption,
which at all times would secure a majority in parliament. The nature of prerogative, by which
the liberties of the nation had formerly been often endangered, was now so well understood,
and so securely restrained, that it could no longer be used for the same oppressive purposes;
besides, an avowed extension of the prerogative required more ability, courage, and resolution,
than the present ministry could exert. They understood their own strength, and had recourse
to a more safe and effectual expedient. The vice, luxury, and prostitution of the age, the
almost total extinction of sentiment, honour, and public spirit, had prepared the minds of
men for slavery and corruption. The means were in the hands of the ministry; the public treasure
was at their devotion; they multiplied places and pensions, to increase the number of their
dependants; they squandered away the money of the nation without taste, discernment, decency,
or remorse; they enlisted an army of the most abandoned emissaries, whom they employed to vindicate
the worst measures, in the face of truth, common sense, and common honesty; and they did not
fail to stigmatize as Jacobites, and enemies to the government, all those who presumed to question
the merit of their administration.

CHARACTERS OF THE PRINCIPAL PERSONS CONCERNED IN THE MINISTRY.

The supreme direction of affairs was not yet engrossed by a single minister. Lord Townshend
had the reputation of conducting the external transactions relating to treaties and negotiations.
He is said to have understood that province, though he did not always follow the dictates of
his own understanding. He possessed an extensive fund of knowledge; and was well acquainted
with the functions of his office. The duke of Newcastle, his colleague, was not remarkable
for any of these qualifications; he owed his promotion to his uncommon zeal for the illustrious
house of Hanover, and to the strength of his interest in parliament, rather than to his judgment,
precision, or any other intellectual merit. Lord Carteret, who may be counted an auxiliary,
though not immediately concerned in the administration, had distinguished himself in the character
of envoy at several courts in Europe. He had attained an intimate knowledge of all the different
interests and connexions subsisting among the powers of the continent; and he infinitely surpassed
all the ministers in learning and capacity. He was indeed the only man of genius employed under
this government. He spoke with ease and propriety, his conceptions were just and lively; his
inferences bold; his counsels vigorous and warm. Yet he depreciated his talents, by acting
in a subordinate character to those whom he despised; and seemed to look upon the pernicious
measures of a bad ministry with silent contempt, rather than with avowed detestation. The interior
government of Great Britain was chiefly managed by sir Robert Walpole, a man of extraordinary
talents, who had from low beginnings raised himself to the head of the treasury. Having obtained
a seat in the lower house, he declared himself one of the most forward partisans of the whig
faction. He was endued with a species of eloquence, which, though neither nervous nor elegant,
flowed with great facility, and was so plausible on all subjects, that even when he misrepresented
the truth, whether from ignorance or design, he seldom failed to persuade that part of his
audience for whose hearing his harangue was chiefly intended. He was well acquainted with the
nature of the public funds, and understood the whole mystery of stock-jobbing. This knowledge
produced a connexion between him and the money-corporations, which served to enhance his importance.
He perceived the bulk of mankind were actuated by a sordid thirst of lucre; he had sagacity
enough to convert the degeneracy of the times to his own advantage; and on this, and this alone,
he founded the whole superstructure of his subsequent administration. In the late reign he
had by dint of speaking decisively to every question, by boldly impeaching the conduct of the
tory ministers, by his activity in elections, and engaging as a projector in the schemes of
the monied interest, become a leading member in the house of commons. By his sufferings under
the tory parliament, he attained the rank of a martyr to his party. His interest, his reputation,
and his presumption daily increased; he opposed Sunderland as his rival in power, and headed
a dangerous defection from the ministry, which evinced the greatness of his influence and authority.
He had the glory of being principally concerned in effecting a reconciliation between the late
king and the prince of Wales; then he was re-associated in the administration with additional
credit; and, from the death of the earls of Sunderland and Stanhope, he had been making long
strides towards the office of prime minister. He knew the maxims he had adopted would subject
him to the hatred, the ridicule, and reproach of some individuals, who had not yet resigned
all sentiments of patriotism, nor all views of opposition; but the number of these was inconsiderable,
when compared to that which constituted the body of the community; and he would not suffer
the consideration of such antagonists to come in competition with his schemes of power, affluence,
and authority. Nevertheless, low as he had humbled anti-ministerial association, it required
all his artifice to elude, all his patience and natural phlegm to bear, the powerful arguments
that were urged, and the keen satire that was exercised against his measures and management,
by a few members in the opposition. Sir William Wyndham possessed all the energy of elocution;
Mr. Shippen was calm, intrepid, shrewd and sarcastic; Mr. Pulteney inherited from nature a
good understanding, which he had studiously cultivated. He was one of the most learned members
in the house of commons, extremely well qualified to judge of literary productions; well read
in history and politics; deeply skilled in the British constitution, the detail of government,
and the nature of the finances. He spoke with freedom, fluency, and uncommon warmth of declamation,
which was said to be the effect of personal animosity to sir Robert Walpole, with whom he had
been formerly connected.

DEBATES IN PARLIAMENT CONCERNING THE CIVIL LIST.

An express arriving on the fourteenth day of June, with an account of the king's death, his
late majesty king George II. repaired from Richmond, where he received this intelligence, to
Leicester-house; and the members of the privy-council being assembled, were sworn a-new. The
king declared his firm purpose to preserve the constitution in church and state, and to cultivate
those alliances which his father had made with foreign princes. At the same time, he took and
subscribed the oath for the security of the church of Scotland, as required by the act of union.
Next day he was proclaimed king of Great Britain. The parliament assembled in pursuance of
the act made for that purpose; but was immediately prorogued by commission to the twenty-seventh
day of the month. All the great officers of state continued in their places; sir Robert Walpole
kept possession of the treasury; and the system of politics which the late king had established
underwent no sort of alteration. The king, in his speech to both houses at the opening of the
session, professed a fixed resolution to merit the love and affection of his people, by maintaining
them in the full enjoyment of their religious and civil rights. He promised to lessen the public
expense as soon as the circumstances of affairs would permit: he observed to the commons, that
the grant of the greatest part of the civil list revenues was now determined; and that it would
be necessary for them to make a new provision for the support of him and his family: lastly,
he recommended it to both houses to dispatch the business that should be necessarily brought
before them, as the season of the year and the circumstances of time required their presence
in the country. Addresses of condolence and congratulation being drawn up and presented, the
commons, in a committee of the whole house, took into consideration a motion for a supply to
his majesty. Sir Robert Walpole having observed, that the annual sum of seven hundred thousand
pounds granted to, and settled on, the late king, had fallen short every year; and that his
present majesty's expenses were likely to increase, by reason of the largeness of his family,
moved, that the entire revenues of the civil list, which produced about eight hundred thousand
pounds per annum, should be settled on the king during his life. Mr. Shippen opposed this motion,
as inconsistent with the trust reposed in them as representatives of the people, who ought
to be very frugal in exercising the right of giving away the public money. He said, the sum
of seven hundred thousand pounds was not obtained for his late majesty without a long and solemn
debate; and every member who contended for it at that time, allowed it to be an ample royal
revenue: that, although his majesty's family should be enlarged, a circumstance which had been
urged as one reason for the motion, he presumed the appointments of prince Frederick would
not be much inferior to those settled on his present majesty when he was prince of Wales: besides,
it was to be hoped that many personal, many particular expenses in the late reign, especially
those for frequent journeys to Hanover, would be discontinued, and entirely cease. He observed,
that the civil list branches in the queen's reign did not often exceed the sum of five hundred
and fifty thousand pounds; nevertheless, she called upon her parliament but once, in a reign
of thirteen years, to pay the debts contracted in her civil government; and these were occasioned
by the unparalleled instances of her piety and generosity. She gave the first-fruits and tenths,
arising to nineteen thousand pounds a-year, as an augmentation of the maintenance of the poor
clergy. She bestowed five thousand pounds per annum, out of the post-office, on the duke of
Marlborough: she suffered seven hundred pounds to be charged weekly on the same office, for
the service of the public: she expended several hundred thousand pounds in building the castle
of Blenheim: she allowed four thousand pounds annually to prince Charles of Denmark: she sustained
great loses by the tin contract: she supported the poor Palatines: she exhibited many other
proofs of royal bounty: and immediately before her death she had formed a plan of retrenchment,
which would have reduced her yearly expenses to four hundred and fifty-nine thousand nine hundred
and forty-one pounds. Two hundred and fifty thousand pounds were raised in defiance of the
ancient parliamentary methods, to secure the kingdom from a Swedish invasion; then the two
insurance offices were erected, and paid near three hundred thousand pounds for their charters:
our enmity with Sweden being changed into an alliance, a subsidy of seventy-two thousand pounds
was implicitly granted, to fulfil some secret engagements with that crown: four and twenty
thousand pounds were given for burning merchant ships arrived from infected places, though
the goods which ought to have been destroyed for the public safety were afterwards privately
sold: a sum of five hundred thousand pounds was demanded, and granted, for paying the debts
of the civil list; and his majesty declared by message, he was resolved to retrench his expenses
for the future. Notwithstanding this resolution, in less than four years, a new demand of the
like sum was made and granted to discharge new incumbrances: the Spanish ships of war which
admiral Byng took in the Mediterranean, were sold for a considerable sum of money: one hundred
and twenty-five thousand pounds were granted in the last session, to be secretly disposed of
for the public utility; and there was still a debt in the civil government, amounting to above
six hundred thousand pounds. He took notice, that this amazing extravagance happened under
the conduct of persons pretending to surpass all their predecessors in the knowledge and care
of the public revenue: that as none of these sums had been accounted for, they were, in all
probability, employed in services not fit to be owned. He proposed, that instead of granting
an addition to the civil list, they should restrict that revenue to a certain sum, by concluding
the question with these words, "in like manner as they were granted and continued to his late
majesty, so as to make up the clear yearly sum of seven hundred thousand pounds." To these
particulars, which were indeed unanswerable, no reply was made. Even this mark of decency was
laid aside, as idle and superfluous. The house agreed to the motion; and a bill was brought
in for the better support of his majesty's household. The commons having received a message
from the king, desiring they would make further provision for the queen his consort, resolved,
That in case she should survive his majesty, the sum of one hundred thousand pounds should
be settled upon her for life, charged upon the revenues of the civil list, together with his
majesty's palace of Somerset-house, and Richmond Old-park. A bill was formed on this resolution,
which, as well as the other, passed both bouses, and received the royal assent on the seventeenth
day of July, when the king, in a speech to both houses, expressed his satisfaction with their
conduct, and congratulated them on the wealth and glory of the nation, by which they had acquired
such weight in holding the balance of Europe. Then the lord-chancellor prorogued the parliament
to the twenty-ninth day of August; but on the seventh day of that month a proclamation was
issued for dissolving this, and convoking another.

In the interim some changes were made in different departments of civil economy. Lord viscount
Torrington was placed at the head of the admiralty; the earl of Westmoreland was appointed
first lord commissioner of trade and plantations. Philip Dormer Stanhope, earl of Chesterfield,
a nobleman remarkable for his wit, eloquence, and polished manners, was nominated ambassador
to the Hague. The privy-council being dissolved, another was appointed of the members then
present. The duke of Devonshire was dignified with the place of president; and the duke of
St. Alban's was appointed master of the horse. On the eleventh day of October, the coronation
of the king and queen was performed at Westminster-Abbey, with the usual solemnity.* By this
time the courts of France and Spain were perfectly reconciled; all Europe was freed from the
calamities of war; and the peace of Great Britain suffered no interruption, except from some
transient tumults among the tinners of Cornwall, who, being provoked by a scarcity of corn,
rose in arms and plundered the granaries of that county.

     * King George II. ascended the throne in the forty-fourth
     year of his age. On the second day of September, 1705, he
     espoused the princess Wilhelmina Charlotte Caroline,
     daughter to John Frederick, marquis of Brandenburgh Anspach,
     by whom he had two sons, Frederick Louis, prince of Wales,
     born at Hanover on the thirty-first day of January, 1707,
     and William Augustus, born at London on the fifteenth day of
     April, 1721. She had likewise borne four princesses, namely,
     Anne, Amelia, Caroline, Mary, and was afterwards delivered
     of Louisa, married in the sequel to the king of Denmark.

NEW PARLIAMENT.

The elections in England and Scotland for the parliament having succeeded on the new system,
according to the wishes of the ministry, the two houses met on the twenty-third day of January,
when the commons unanimously chose for their speaker Arthur Onslow, esquire, knight of the
shire for Surrey, a gentleman of extensive knowledge, worth, and probity; grave, eloquent,
venerable, and every way qualified for the discharge of that honourable and important office.
The king, in his speech to this new parliament, declared, that by the last advices from abroad,
he had reason to hope the difficulties which had hitherto retarded the execution of the preliminaries,
and the opening of the congress, would soon be entirely removed; in the meantime, he represented
the absolute necessity of continuing the preparation which had hitherto secured the nation,
and prevented an open rupture in Europe. He promised, that his first care should be to reduce,
from time to time, the expense of the public, as often, and as soon as the interest and safety
of his people would permit such reduction. He expressed an earnest desire of seeing the foundation
laid of an effectual scheme for the increase and encouragement of seamen in general, that they
might be invited rather than compelled into the service of their country. Finally, he recommended
unanimity, zeal, and despatch of the public business. Those speeches, penned by the minister,
were composed with a view to soothe the minds of the people into an immediate concurrence with
the measures of the government; but without any intention of performing those promises of economy,
reformation, and national advantage. The two houses seemed to vie with each other in expressions
of applause and affection to his majesty. The lords, in their address, hailed him as the best
of kings, and the true father of his country. The commons expressed the warmest sense of gratitude
for the blessings they enjoyed in his reign, though it was not yet eight months old. They approved
of all his transactions; they promised to support him in all his undertakings; and declared
they would cheerfully grant whatever supplies should be wanted for the public service. Having
considered the estimates which were laid before them by order of his majesty, they voted two-and-twenty
thousand nine hundred and fifty-five men for guards and garrisons; and fifteen thousand seamen
for the service of the ensuing year. They granted two hundred and thirty thousand nine hundred
and twenty-three pounds, for the maintenance of twelve thousand Hessian troops; a subsidy of
fifty thousand pounds to the king of Sweden; and half that sum to the duke of Brunswick Wolfenbuttle.*
The expense of the year amounted to four millions, raised by a land-tax of three shillings
in the pound, a malt-tax, and by borrowing of the bank one million seven hundred and fifty
thousand pounds, for which annuities to the amount of seventy thousand pounds, to be raised
by duties on coals imported into the city of London, were granted to that corporation.

     * Nothing could be a greater burlesque upon the negotiation
     than this treaty of alliance concluded with the petty duke
     of Wolfenbuttle, who very gravely guarantees to his
     Britannic majesty the possession of his three kingdoms, and
     obliges himself to supply his majesty with five thousand
     men, in consideration of an annual subsidy of five-and-
     twenty thousand pounds for four years.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

VIOLENT DISPUTE CONCERNING THE NATIONAL DEBT.

All these sums, however, were not granted without question. The number of land-forces occasioned
a debate; and the Hessian auxiliaries were not allowed without dispute and opposition. When
they deliberated on the loan of the bank, Mr. Pulteney observed, that the shifting of funds
was but perpetuating taxes, and putting off the evil day; that notwithstanding the great merit
which some persons had built on the sinking fund, it appeared that the national debt had been
increased since the setting up of that pompous project. Some warm altercation passed between
him and sir Robert Walpole on this subject. The lord-mayor, aldermen, and common-council of
London, presented a petition, setting forth, that the duties already laid upon coals and culm
imported into London, affected the trade of that city only; that the inequality of the burden
was a great discouragement to their manufactures, and a hardship upon all the trading inhabitants.
The petition was rejected, and the tax imposed. The house having addressed the king for a particular
and distinct account of the distribution of two hundred and fifty thousand pounds, charged
to have been issued for securing the trade and navigation of the kingdom, and preserving and
restoring the peace of Europe, he declined granting their request, but signified in general
that part of the money had been issued and disbursed by his late majesty, and the remainder
by himself, for carrying on the same necessary services, which required the greatest secrecy.
Such a message in the reign of King William would have raised a dangerous flame in the house
of commons.

{1728}

Mr. W. Pulteney inveighed against such a vague and general way of accounting for the public
money, as tending to render parliaments altogether insignificant, to cover embezzlements, and
to screen corrupt and rapacious ministers. The commons having taken into consideration the
state of the national debt, examined the accounts, and interrogated the proper officers. A
motion was made by a court member, that it appeared the monies already issued and applied towards
discharging the national debts, together with a sum to be issued at Lady-day, amounted to six
millions six hundred and forty-eight thousand seven hundred and sixty two pounds, five shillings
and one penny one farthing. In vain did the leaders of the opposition expose the fallacious
tendency of this motion. In vain did they demonstrate the fraudulent artifice used in drawing
up the accounts; the motion was carried; and several resolutions were taken on the state of
the national debts. In the particular account of these debts, upon which the house resolved
to form a representation to his majesty, an article of three hundred thousand pounds relating
to the duty upon wrought plate was totally omitted. This extraordinary omission being discovered,
gave rise to a very warm debate, and to very severe reflection against those who superintended
the public accounts. The draft being approved by the house, was presented to the king-, who
received it graciously. He took this opportunity of saying, that the provision made for gradually
discharging the national debts was now become so certain and considerable, that nothing but
some unforeseen event could alter or diminish it; a circumstance that afforded the fairest
prospect of seeing the old debts discharged without any necessity of incurring new incumbrances.

This answer, fraught with many other expressions of fatherly tenderness for his people, paved
the way for a message to the house, demanding a vote of credit to fulfil certain engagements
entered into, and concerted, with the advice and concurrence of the last parliament, for securing
the trade and navigation of the kingdom, and for restoring and preserving the peace of Europe.
Though a debate ensued upon this message, the majority resolved that an address should be presented
to his majesty, declaring the duty and fidelity of the commons, their entire confidence in
his royal care and goodness, and their readiness to enable his majesty to fulfil his engagements,
A vote of credit passed accordingly. During this session, the peers were chiefly employed in
examining copies of several treaties and alliances which the king submitted to their perusal;
they likewise prepared a bill for amending the statute of limitation, which, however, did not
pass into a law; they considered the state of the national debt, a subject fruitful of debates;
they passed the mutiny bill, and those that were sent up from the commons touching the supplies;
together with an act obliging ships arriving from infected places, to perform quarantine; and
some others of a more private nature. These bills having received the royal assent, the king
closed the session on the twenty-eighth day of May, when he thanked the commons for the effectual
supplies they had raised, and, in particular, for having empowered him to borrow five hundred
thousand pounds for the discharge of wages due to the seamen employed in the navy.

A DOUBLE MARRIAGE BETWEEN THE HOUSES OF SPAIN AND PORTUGAL.

England was at this period quite barren of remarkable events. The king's uncle, Ernest Augustus,
prince of Brunswick, duke of York, and bishop of Osnabruck, died on the third day of August,
and was succeeded in the bishopric by the elector Cologn, according to the pactum by which
Osnabruck is alternately possessed by the house of Brunswick and that elector. In the beginning
of December, his majesty's eldest son prince Frederick arrived in England from Hanover, where
he had hitherto resided, was introduced into the privy-council, and created prince of Wales.
Signior Como, resident from the duke of Parma, was ordered to quit the kingdom, because his
master paid to the pretender the honours due to the king of Great Britain. The congress opened
at Soissons, for determining all disputes among the powers of Europe, proved ineffectual. Such
difficulties occurred in settling and reconciling so many different pretensions and interests,
that the contracting parties in the alliance of Hanover proposed a provisional treaty, concerning
which no definitive answer was given as yet by the courts of Vienna and Madrid. The fate of
Europe, therefore, continued in suspense; the English fleet lay inactive and rotting in the
West-Indies; the sailors perished miserably, without daring to avenge their country's wrongs;
while the Spanish cruisers committed depredations with impunity on the commerce of Great Britain.
The court of Spain, at this juncture, seemed cold and indifferent with regard to a pacification
with England. It had renewed a good understanding with France, and now strengthened its interests
by a double alliance of marriage with the royal family of Portugal. The infanta of this house
was betrothed to the prince of Asturias; while the Spanish infanta, formerly affianced to the
French king, was now matched with the prince of Brazil, eldest son of his Portuguese majesty.
In the month of January, the two courts met in a wooden house built over the little river Coya,
that separates the two kingdoms, and there the princesses were exchanged.

LIBERALITY OF THE COMMONS.

The parliament of Great Britain meeting according to their last prorogation on the twenty-first
day of January, the king in his speech communicated the nature of the negotiation at the congress.
Pie demanded such supplies as might enable him to act vigorously in concert with his allies,
provided his endeavours to establish an advantageous peace should miscarry; and he hinted that
the dilatory conduct of the courts of Vienna and Madrid proceeded in a great measure from the
hopes that were given of creating discontents and divisions among the subjects of Great Britain.
This suggestion was a ministerial artifice to inflame the zeal and resentment of the nation,
and intimidate the members in the opposition. Accordingly the hint was pursued, and in the
addresses from both houses, that could not fail of being agreeable, considering the manner
in which they were dictated, particular notice was taken of this article; both peers and commons
expressed their detestation and abhorrence of those, who, by such base and unnatural artifices,
suggested the means of distressing their country, and clamoured at the inconveniencies which
they themselves had occasioned. In these addresses, likewise, the parliament congratulated
his majesty on the arrival of the prince of Wales in his British dominions; and the commons
sent a particular compliment to his royal highness on that occasion, The estimates having been
examined in the usual form, the house voted fifteen thousand seamen for the ensuing year; but
the motion for continuing the same number of land-forces which had been allowed in the preceding
year, was not carried without dispute. All the arguments against a standing army in time of
peace, as inconsistent with the British constitution, and dangerous to the liberties of the
people, were repeated with great vivacity by Mr. Shippen and Mr. W. Pulteney. These, however,
were answered, and represented as absurd, by Mr. Horatio Walpole and Mr. D., two staunch adherents
of the minister. The first had, in despite of nature, been employed in different negotiations;
he was blunt, awkward, and slovenly, an orator without eloquence, an ambassador without dignity,
and a plenipotentiary without address. The other had natural parts and acquired knowledge;
spoke with confidence; and in dispute was vain, sarcastic, petulant, and verbose.

DEBATES ON THE SUBSIDIES OF HESSE-CASSEL AND WOLFENBUTTLE.

The subsidies to Sweden, Hesse-Cassel, and Wolfen-buttle were continued, notwithstanding the
remonstrances of sir Joseph Jekyll, Mr. Lutwyche, and Mr. Pulteney; which last observed, that
as the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel, and the duke of Brunswick-Wolfen-buttle, usually maintained
a certain number of troops in their pay, it was but reasonable that Great Britain should defray
no more than the expense of the additional forces which those powers had raised, in consequence
of their conventions with the king of England. Sir Robert Walpole perceiving that this remark
made an impression on the house, thought it necessary to vindicate his measure. He expatiated
upon the wisdom of the late king, in concluding the Hanover alliance. He affirmed, that the
convention with Hesse-Cassel had prevented a war in the empire, for which the court of Vienna
had made great preparations; that the emperor had not only augmented his own forces by the
help of Spanish subsidies, but also retained the troops of three electors; and if he had not
been overawed by the Hessians, would certainly have rejected the preliminaries, and all other
advances towards a pacification; that, therefore, they ought not to grudge an expense which
had already proved so beneficial to the tranquillity of Europe. Sir Joseph Jekyll replied,
that whatever gloss might be put upon such measures, they were repugnant to the maxims by which
England in former times had steered and squared its conduct with relation to its interest abroad;
that the navy was the natural strength of Great Britain--its best defence and security; but
if, in order to avoid a war, they should be so free-hearted as to buy and maintain the forces
of foreign princes, they were never like to see an end of such extravagant expenses. This gentleman,
who exercised the office of master of the rolls, had approved himself a zealous defender of
whig principles, was an able lawyer, a sensible speaker, and a conscientious patriot. The supplies
were raised by a continuation of the land-tax, the duties upon malt, cyder, and perry, an additional
imposition on unmalted corn used in distilling, and by sale of annuities to the bank not exceeding
fifty thousand pounds per annum.

COMMITTEE FOR INSPECTING THE GAOLS.

Petitions were delivered to the house of commons from the merchants of London, Liverpool, and
Bristol, complaining of the interruptions they had suffered in their trade for several years,
by the depredations of the Spaniards in the West Indies. These being considered, the house
ordered the lords of the admiralty to produce the other memorials of the same kind which they
had received, that they might be laid before the congress at Soissons: then they addressed
his majesty for copies of all the letters and instructions which had been sent to admiral Hosier,
and those who succeeded him in the command of the West-India squadron. Mr. Oglethorpe, having
been informed of shocking cruelties and oppressions exercised by gaolers upon their prisoners,
moved for an examination into these practices, and was chosen chairman of a committee appointed
to inquire into the state of the gaols in the kingdom. They began with the Fleet-prison, which
they visited in a body; there they found sir William Rich, baronet, loaded with irons, by order
of Bambridge the warden, to whom he had given some slight cause of offence. They made a discovery
of many inhuman barbarities which had been committed by that ruffian, and detected the most
iniquitous scenes of fraud, villany, and extortion. When the report was made by the committee,
the house unanimously resolved, That Thomas Bambridge, acting warden of the Fleet, had wilfully
permitted several debtors to escape; had been guilty of the most notorious breaches of trust,
great extortions, and the highest crimes and misdemeanors in the execution of his office; that
he had arbitrarily and unlawfully loaded with irons, put into dungeons, and destroyed prisoners
for debt, under his charge, treating them in the most barbarous and cruel manner, in high violation
and contempt of the laws of the kingdom. John Huggins, esquire, who had been warden of the
Fleet-prison, was subjected to a resolution of the same nature. The house presented an address
to the king, desiring he would direct his attorney-general forthwith to prosecute these persons
and their accomplices, who were committed prisoners to Newgate. A bill was brought in, disabling
Bambridge to execute the office of warden; another for the better regulating the prison of
the Fleet, and for more effectually preventing and punishing arbitrary and illegal practices
of the warden of the said prison.*

     * It afterwards appeared that some of the members of this
     inquest were actuated by other motives than those they
     professed; and the committee was suffered to sink into
     oblivion.

ADDRESS TOUCHING THE SPANISH DEPREDATIONS.

Other merchants complained by petition of the losses they sustained by the Spaniards. The house,
in a grand committee, deliberated on this subject, inquired into the particulars, examined
evidence, and drew up an address to the king, desiring his majesty would be graciously pleased
to use his utmost endeavours for preventing such depredations; for procuring just and reasonable
satisfaction; and for securing to his subjects the free exercise of commerce and navigation
to and from the British colonies in America. The king assured them he would use his best endeavours
to answer the desires and expectations of his people, in an affair of so much importance; and
they, in another address, thanked him for his gracious answer. They did not, however, receive
such a satisfactory reply to a former address, touching the sum of sixty thousand pounds that
had been stated in the public account, without specification of the particular uses to which
it was applied. His majesty gave them to understand that the money had been issued and disbursed
for secret services; and that a distinct and particular account of the distribution of it could
not be given without a manifest prejudice to the public. A bill was prepared for the more effectual
preventing bribery and corruption in elections for members of parliament; and it passed through
the house without opposition; but their attention was chiefly employed upon the Spanish depredations,
which had raised a great clamour through the whole kingdom, and excited very warm disputes
in parliament; for they were generally reputed the fruits of negligence, incapacity, or want
of vigour in the ministers.. The commons having made further progress in the inquiry, and received
fresh petitions from the merchants, passed some resolutions, in which the Spaniards were accused
of having violated the treaties subsisting between the two crowns; and with having treated
inhumanly the masters and crews of ships belonging to Great Britain. They justified the instructions
given to admiral Hosier, to seize and detain the flota and galleons of Spain, until justice
and satisfaction should be rendered to his majesty and his allies; nay, even declared that
such seizure would have been just, prudent, and necessary, tending to prevent an open rupture,
and to preserve the peace and tranquillity of Europe. They again addressed the king to use
his endeavours to procure satisfaction; and he promised to comply with their request.

Mr. Scroope, member for Bristol, moved for an address entreating his majesty to order an account
of the produce of the civil list revenues for one year to be laid before the house. The address
was presented, the account produced, and the house, in a grand committee, took this affair
into consideration. The courtiers affirmed that they fell short of the eight hundred thousand
pounds settled upon his majesty; and Mr. Scroope proposed that the sum of one hundred and fifteen
thousand pounds should be granted to the king, on account of those deficiencies and arrears.
The motion was vigorously opposed by Mr. Pulteney and other members. They expressed their surprise
that it should be made so late in the session, when no further demand of money could be reasonably
expected; and they said it was the more extraordinary, because it appeared in the former session,
from the examination of the accounts then before the house, that the revenues of the civil
list produced yearly a much greater sum than that for which they were given. Mr. Pulteney moved,
that the accounts and papers should be referred to the examination of a select committee, properly
empowered to investigate the truth. The ministers opposed this motion; and the question being
put, it passed in the negative. The majority voted the sum demanded; and in a bill for settling
the price of imported corn, they inserted the resolution for granting to his majesty the sum
of one hundred and fifteen thousand pounds, on account of arrears due on the civil list revenues.

PROCEEDINGS IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS.

The house of lords having prepared a bill for the more effectual punishment of forgery, which
was passed into a law, and ordered the judges to bring in another on the report of a committee
appointed to consider the case of imprisoned debtors, at length deliberated upon the state
of the nation, particularly the positive demand made by the court of Spain for the restitution
of Gibraltar, grounded in a letter written by the late king to his catholic majesty. From a
copy of the letter laid before the house, it plainly appeared that king George I. had consented
to this restitution. A motion being made for a resolution, importing, that for the honour of
his majesty, and the preservation and security of the trade and commerce of the kingdom, effectual
care should be taken in the present treaty that the king of Spain should renounce all claim
and pretension to Gibraltar and Minorca, in plain and strong terms; a debate ensued, and the
question being put, passed in the negative, though not without a protest. When the house examined
the papers relating to the Spanish depreciations, many severe reflections were uttered against
the conduct of the ministry; and a motion was made, to resolve that Hosier's expedition was
an unreasonable burden on the nation; but this too was rejected, and occasioned another protest.
Nor did the clause in the corn-bill, for granting one hundred and fifteen thousand pounds to
his majesty, pass through the house of peers without warm opposition. Divers lords alleged,
that, instead of a deficiency in the civil list revenues, there was a considerable surplus;
that this was a new grant, and a new burden on the people; that the nation was loaded, not
to complete but to augment the surplus designed for the civil list; and this at a time when
the public debts were increased; when the taxes were heavily felt in all parts of the country;
when the foreign trade of Britain was encumbered and diminished; when her manufactures were
decayed, her poor multiplied, and she was surrounded by many other national calamities. They
observed, that if the produce of the civil list revenue should not amount to the yearly sum
of eight hundred thousand pounds, the deficiency must be made good to his majesty by the public;
whereas no provision was made, by which, if the produce of these revenues should exceed that
sum, the surplus could accrue to the benefit of the public; that, by this precedent, not only
real deficiencies were to be made good, but also supplies were to be given for arrears standing
out at the end of the year, which should come on before the supplies could be granted, though
the supply given to make good arrears in one year would certainly increase the surplusages
in another; that the revenues of the civil list were variable in their own nature, and even
when there is a deficiency in the produce, there might be arrears in the receipt; these might
be easily increased by the management of designing ministers, by private directions to receivers,
and by artful methods of stating accounts. All these arguments, and other objections equally
strong and plausible, against this unconsionable and unparliamentary motion, served only to
evince the triumph of the ministry over shame and sentiment, their contempt of public spirit,
and their defiance of the national reproach.*

     * The peers that distinguished themselves in the opposition
     were Beaufort, Strafford, Craven, Foley, Litchfield,
     Scarsdale, Grower, Mountjoy, Plymouth, Bathurst,
     Northampton, Coventry, Oxford and Mortimer, Willoughby de
     Broke, Boyle, and Warrington.

{1729}

WISE CONDUCT OF THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

The king had, on the twenty-fourth day of March, given the royal assent to five bills; and
on the fourteenth day of May the same sanction was given to thirty other bills, including an
act enabling the queen to be regent in the kingdom during his majesty's absence without taking
the oaths, and another for the relief of insolvent debtors. At the same time two-and-thirty
private bills were passed: then the king expressed his approbation of the parliament, signified
his intention to visit his German dominions, and ordered the chancellor to prorogue both houses.
His majesty having appointed the queen regent of the realm, set out for Hanover on the seventeenth
day of May, in order to remove a petty misunderstanding which had happened between that electorate
and the court of Berlin. Some Hanoverian subjects had been pressed or decoyed into the service
of Prussia; and the regents of Hanover had seized certain Prussian officers by way of reprisal.
The whole united kingdom of Great Britain at this juncture enjoyed uninterrupted repose; and
commerce continued to increase, in spite of all restriction and discouragement. The people
of Ireland found themselves happy under the government of lord Carteret; and their parliament,
assembling in the month of September, approved themselves the fathers of their country. They
established funds for the discharge of their national debt, and for maintaining the expense
of government: they enacted wholesome laws for the encouragement of manufactures, trade, and
agriculture; and they formed wise regulations in different branches of civil economy. Some
time after this session, which was conducted with so much harmony and patriotism, lord Carteret
returned to England; and was succeeded by the duke of Dorset in the government of that kingdom.
In the month of May, Charles lord Townshend resigned the seals, which were given to colonel
Stanhope, now created earl of Harrington; so that sir Robert Walpole now reigned without a
rival. James earl of Waldegrave was appointed ambassador to the court of France, which about
that time was filled with joy by the birth of a dauphin.

ABDICATION OF THE KING OF SARDINIA.

In the month of September, Victor Amadeus king of Sardinia, resigned his crown to his son Charles
Emanuel, prince of Piedmont. The father reserved to himself a revenue of one hundred thousand
pistoles per annum, retired to the castle of Chamberry, and espoused the countess dowager of
St. Sebastian, who declined the title of queen, but assumed that of marchioness of Somerive.
Though the congress at Soissons proved abortive, conferences were begun at Seville between
the plenipotentiaries of England, France, and Spain; and a treaty was concluded on the ninth
day of November, not only without the concurrence of the emperor, but even contrary to his
right, as established by the quadruple alliance. On this subject he communicated an imperial
commissorial decree to the states of the empire assembled in the diet at Eatisbon, which was
answered by the French minister de Chavigny. In October, Peter II., czar of Muscovy and grandson
of Peter I., died in the fifteenth year of his age, at Muscow, and was succeeded on the Russian
throne by the princess Anne Ivanowna, second daughter of John Alexowitz, elder brother of the
first Peter, and widow of Frederic William duke of Courland. The following month was rendered
remarkable by the death of pope Benedict XIII., in whose room cardinal Laurence Corsini was
raised to the pontificate, and assumed the name of Clement XII.

SUBSTANCE OF THE KING'S SPEECH.

The British parliament assembling on the thirteenth day of January, the king gave them to understand
that the peace of Europe was now established by the treaty of Seville, built upon the foundation
of former treaties, and tending to render more effectual what the contracting powers in the
quadruple alliance were before engaged to see performed. He assured them that all former conventions
made with Spain in favour of the British trade and navigation were renewed and confirmed: that
the free uninterrupted exercise of their commerce was restored: that the court of Spain had
agreed to an ample restitution and reparation for unlawful seizures and depredations: that
all rights, privileges, and possessions, belonging to him and his allies, were solemnly re-established,
confirmed, and guaranteed; and that not one concession was made to the prejudice of his subjects.
He told them he had given orders for reducing a great number of his land-forces, and for laying
up great part of the fleet; and observed 'that there would be a considerable saving in the
expense of the current year. After both houses had presented their addresses of thanks and
congratulation to the king on the peace of Seville, the lords took that treaty into consideration,
and it did not pass inquiry without severe animadversion.

OBJECTIONS TO THE TREATY OF SEVILLE.

The lords in the opposition excepted to the article by which the merchants of Great Britain
were obliged to make proof of their losses at the court of Spain. They said this stipulation
was a hardship upon British subjects, and dishonourable to the nation: that few would care
to undertake such a troublesome and expensive journey, especially as they had reason to apprehend
their claims would be counterbalanced by the Spaniards; and after all they would have no more
than the slender comfort of hoping to obtain that redress by commissaries which they had not
been able to procure by plenipotentiaries. They thought it very extraordinary that Great Britain
should be bound to ratify and guarantee whatever agreement should be made between the king
of Spain and the duke of Parma and Tuscany, concerning the garrisons once established in their
countries; that the English should be obliged to assist in effectuating the introduction of
six thousand Spanish troops into the towns of Tuscany and Parma, without any specification
of the methods to be taken, or the charge to be incurred, in giving that assistance: that they
should guarantee for ever, not only to Don Carlos, but even to all his successors, the possession
of the estates of Tuscany and Parma; a stipulation which in all probability would involve Great
Britain in endless quarrels and disputes about a country with which they had no concern. They
affirmed that the treaty of Seville, instead of confirming other treaties, was contradictory
to the quadruple alliance, particularly in the article of introducing Spanish troops into Tuscany
and Parma in the room of neutral forces stipulated by the former alliance; and agreeing that
they should there remain until Don Carlos and his successors should be secure and exempt from
all events. They complained that these alterations from the tenor of the quadruple alliance,
were made without the concurrence of the emperor, and even without inviting him to accede;
an affront which might alienate his friendship from England, and hazard the loss of such an
ancient, powerful, and faithful ally; they declared that throughout the whole treaty there
seemed to be an artful omission of any express stipulation to secure Great Britain in her right
to Gibraltar and Minorca. Such was the substance of the objections made to the peace: then
lord Bathurst moved for a resolution that the agreement on the treaty of Seville, to secure
the succession of Don Carlos to the duchies of Tuscany, Parma, and Placentia, with Spanish
troops, was a manifest violation of the fifth article of the quadruple alliance, tending to
involve the nation in a dangerous and expensive war, and to destroy the balance of power in
Europe. The question was put, and the motion rejected. Such too was the fate of two other motions,
to resolve that Great Britain's right of sovereignty, dominion, possession, and claim to Gibraltar
and Minorca, were not ascertained by the treaty of Seville: and that the stipulations in that
treaty for repairing the losses of the British merchants were insufficient and precarious.
The majority, far from stigmatizing this transaction, resolved, that the treaty did contain
all necessary stipulations for maintaining and securing the honour, dignity, rights, and possessions
of the crown: that all due care was taken therein for the support of the trade of the king
dom, and for repairing the losses sustained by the British merchants. On these resolutions
an address of approbation was founded: but when a motion was made for an address to his majesty,
that he would order to be laid before the house a list of all pensions payable to the crown,
it was immediately resolved in the negative. Divers contests of the same kind arose upon the
mutiny-bill, the pension-bill, and the maintenance of twelve thousand Hessians; but the ministry
bore down all opposition, though their triumphs were clogged with vigorous protests, which
did not fail to make impression upon the body of the people.

OPPOSITION TO A STANDING ARMY.

Nor was the success of the court interest in the house of commons altogether pure, and free
from exception and dispute. When the charge of the land forces fell under the consideration
of the commons, and Mr. Henry Pelham, secretary at war, moved that the number of effective
men for the land service of the ensuing year should be fixed at seventeen thousand seven hundred
and nine, Mr. Pulteney insisted upon its being reduced to twelve thousand. Mr. Shippen affirmed
that Mr. Pelham's motion was a flat negative to the address for which he voted on the first
day of the session, as it plainly implied a distrust of the validity of the late treaty, which
he then assured the house would immediately produce all the blessings of an absolute peace,
and deliver the kingdom from the apprehensions and inconveniences of a war. He said the motion
tended directly towards the establishment of an army in Great Britain, which he hoped would
never be so far germanized as tamely to submit to a military government. He observed, that
the nation could have no occasion for all the troops that were demanded, considering the glorious
scene of affairs which was now opened to all Europe. "They are not necessary," said he, "to
awe Spain into a firm adherence to its own treaty; they are not necessary to force the emperor
into an immediate accession, nor are they in any sort necessary for the safety of his majesty's
person and government. Force and violence are the resort of usurpers and tyrants only; because
they are, with good reason, distrustful of the people whom they oppress; and because they have
no other security for the continuance of their unlawful and unnatural dominion, than what depends
entirely on the strength of their armies." The motion, however, was carried in the affirmative.

BILL PROHIBITING LOANS.

Another warm debate was excited by a bill which the courtiers brought in, to prevent any subjects
of Great Britain from advancing sums of money to foreign princes or states, without having
obtained license from his majesty, under his privy-seal or some great authority. The minister
pretended that this law was proposed to disable the emperor, who wanted to borrow a great sum
of the English merchants, from raising and maintaining troops to disturb the tranquillity of
Europe. The bill contained a clause empowering the king to prohibit by proclamation all such
loans of money, jewels, or bullion: the attorney-general was empowered to compel, by English
bill, in the court of exchequer, the effectual discovery, on oath, of any such loans; and it
was enacted, that in default of an answer to any such bill, the court should decree a limited
sum against the person refusing to answer. Mr. Daniel Pulteney, a gentleman of uncommon talents
and ability, and particularly acquainted with every branch of commerce, argued strenuously
against this bill, as a restraint upon trade that would render Holland the market of Europe,
and the mart of money to the nations of the continent. He said that by this general prohibition,
extending to all princes, states, or potentates, the English were totally disabled from assisting
their best allies: that, among others, the king of Portugal frequently borrowed money of the
English merchants residing within his dominions; that while the licensing power remained in
the crown, the licenses would be issued through the hands of the minister, who by this new
trade might gain twenty, thirty, or forty thousand a-year: that the bill would render the exchequer
a court of inquisition: and that whilst it restrained our merchants from assisting the princes
and powers of Europe, it permitted our stockjobbers to trade in their funds without interruption.
Other arguments of equal weight were enforced by Mr. Barnard, a merchant of London, who perfectly
understood trade in all its branches, spoke with judgment and precision, and upon all occasions
steadily adhered to the interest and liberties of his country. After having explained his reasons,
he declared he should never consent to a bill which he deemed a violation of our fundamental
laws, a breach of our dearest liberties, and a very terrible hardship on mankind. Sir William
Wyndham distinguished himself on the same side of the question: the bill was vindicated by
sir Robert Walpole, Mr. Pelham, and sir Philip Yorke, attorney-general; and being supported
by the whole weight of ministerial influence, not only passed through the house, but was afterwards
enacted into a law.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

CHARTER OF THE EAST-INDIA COMPANY.

The subsidies were continued to the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel and the duke of Brunswick-Wolfenbuttle,
in spite of all that could be urged against these extraneous incumbrances; and the supply for
the ensuing year was granted according to the estimates which the ministry thought proper to
produce, amounting to about two millions two hundred and eighty thousand pounds. It must be
owned, however, for the credit of the session, that the house appropriated one million of the
surplusses arising from the sinking fund towards the discharge of the national debt; and by
another act extinguished the duties upon salt, by which expedient the subject was eased of
a heavy burden, not only in being freed from the duty, but also from a considerable charge
of salaries given to a great number of officers employed to collect this imposition. They likewise
encouraged the colony of Carolina with an act, allowing the planters and traders of that province
to export rice directly to any part of Europe southward of Cape Finisterre; and they permitted
salt from Europe to be imported into the colony of New York. The term of the exclusive trade
granted by act of parliament to the East India company drawing towards a period, many considerable
merchants and others made application forbeing incorporated and vested with the privilege of
trading to those countries, proposing to lay that branch of trade open to all the subjects
of Great Britain on certain conditions. In consideration of an act of parliament for this purpose,
they offered to advance three millions two hundred thousand pounds, for redeeming the fund
and trade of the present East India company. This proposal was rejected; and the exclusive
privilege vested in the company was, by act of parliament, protracted to the year one thousand
seven hundred and sixty-six, upon the following conditions: That they should pay into the exchequer
the sum of two hundred thousand pounds towards the supplies of the year, without interest or
addition to their capital stock: that the annuity or yearly fund of one hundred and sixty thousand
pounds, payable to them from the public, should be reduced to one hundred and twenty-eight
thousand: that after the year one thousand seven hundred and sixty-six, their right to the
exclusive trade should be liable to be taken away by parliament, on three years' notice, and
repayment of their capital.

{1730}

THE EMPEROR RESENTS THE TREATY OF SEVILLE.

On the fifteenth day of May, the king went to the house of peers and closed the session. In
his speech he expressed his joy, that, notwithstanding all the clamours which were raised,
the parliament had approved of those matters which, he said, could not fail to inspire all
mankind with a just detestation of those incendiaries, who, by scandalous libels, laboured
to alienate the affections of his people; to fill their minds with groundless jealousies and
unjust complaints, in dishonour of him and his government, and in defiance of the sense of
both houses of parliament.*

     * In the course of the session the commons passed a bill for
     making more effectual the laws in being, for disabling
     persons from being chosen members of parliament who enjoyed
     any pension during pleasure, or for any number of years, or
     any offices holden in trust for them, by obliging all
     persons hereafter to be chosen to serve the commons in
     parliament to take the oath therein mentioned. In all
     probability this bill would not have made its way through
     the house of commons, had not the minister been well assured
     it would stick with the upper house, where it was rejected
     at the second reading, though not without violent
     opposition.

The emperor was so much incensed at the insult offered him in the treaty of Seville, with respect
to the garrisons of Tuscany and Parma, that he prohibited the subjects of Great Britain from
trading in his dominions: he began to make preparations for war, and actually detached bodies
of troops to Italy with such despatch as had been very seldom exerted by the house of Austria.
Yet the article of which he complained was not so much a real injury as an affront put upon
the head of the empire; for eventual succession to those Italian duchies had been secured to
the infant, Don Carlos, by the quadruple alliance; and all that the emperor required was, that
this prince should receive the investiture of them as fiefs of the empire.

ARRIVAL OF SEVEN INDIAN CHIEFS.

In Great Britain, this year was not distinguished by any transaction of great moment. Seven
chiefs of the Cherokee nations of Indians in America were brought to England by sir Alexander
Cumin. Being introduced to the king, they laid their crown and regalia at his feet; and by
an authentic deed acknowledged themselves subjects to his dominion, in the name of all their
compatriots, who had vested them with full powers for this purpose. They were amazed and confounded
at the riches and magnificence of the British court: they compared the king and queen to the
sun and moon, the princes to the stars of heaven, and themselves to nothing. They gave their
assent in the most solemn manner to articles of friendship and commerce, proposed by the lords
commissioners of trade and plantations; and being loaded with presents of necessaries, arms,
and ammunition, were re-conveyed to their own country, which borders on the province of South
Carolina. In the month of September, a surprising revolution was effected at Constantinople,
without bloodshed or confusion. A few mean Janissaries displayed a flag in the streets, exclaiming
that all true Mussulmen ought to follow them, and assist in reforming the government. They
soon increased to the number of one hundred thousand, marched to the seraglio, and demanded
the grand vizier, the kiaja, and captain pacha. These unhappy ministers were immediately strangled.
Their bodies being delivered to the insurgents, were dragged through the streets, and afterwards
thrown to the dogs to be devoured. Not content with this sacrifice, the revolters deposed the
grand seignor Achmet, who was confined to the same prison from whence they brought his nephew
Machmut, and raised this last to the throne, after he had lived seven-and-twenty years in confinement.

England was at this period, infested with robbers, assassins, and incendiaries, the natural
consequences of degeneracy, corruption, and the want of police in the interior government of
the kingdom. This defect, in a great measure, arose from an absurd notion, that laws necessary
to prevent those acts of cruelty, violence, and rapine, would be incompatible with the liberty
of British subjects; a notion that confounds all distinctions between liberty and brutal licentiousness,
as if that freedom was desirable, in the enjoyment of which people find no security for their
lives or effects. The peculiar depravity of the times was visible even in the conduct of those
who preyed upon the commonwealth. Thieves and robbers were now become more desperate and savage
than ever they had appeared since mankind was civilized. In the exercise of their rapine, they
wounded, maimed, and even murdered the unhappy sufferers, through a wantonness of barbarity.
They circulated letters demanding sums of money from certain individuals, on pain of reducing
their houses to ashes, and their families to ruin; and even set fire to the house of a rich
merchant in Bristol, who had refused to comply with their demand. The same species of villany
was practised in different parts of the kingdom; so that the government was obliged to interpose,
and offer a considerable reward for discovering the ruffians concerned in such execrable designs.

BILL AGAINST PENSIONERS SITTING AS MEMBERS IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

In the speech with which the king opened the session of parliament on the twenty-first day
of January, he told them that the present critical conjuncture seemed in a very particular
manner to deserve their attention; that as the transactions then depending in the several courts
of Europe were upon the point of being determined, the great event of peace or war might be
very much affected by their first resolutions, which were expected by different powers with
great impatience. He said, the continuance of that zeal and vigour with which they had hitherto
supported him and his engagements, must at this time be of the greatest weight and importance,
both with regard to his allies, and to those who might be disposed before the season of action
to prevent, by an accommodation, the fatal consequences of a general rupture. The former scene
was repeated. Both houses, in their addresses, promised to support his majesty in all his engagements;
yet the members of the opposition demonstrated the absurdity of promising to fulfil engagements
before they could possibly know whether or not they were for the service of Great Britain.
Another bill was brought into the house of commons, to prevent pensioners from sitting as members
of parliament; and, after a third reading, carried up to the lords for their concurrence. When
the supply fell under consideration, the debates were renewed upon the subsidies to the landgrave
of Hesse-Cassel and the duke of Wolfenbuttle, which, however, were continued; and every article
was granted according to the estimates given in for the expense of the ensuing year. Two petitions
being presented to the commons, representing the delays of justice occasioned by the use of
the Latin tongue in proceedings at law, a bill was brought in for changing this practice, and
enacting, that all those processes and pleadings should be entered in the English language.
Though one would imagine that very little could be advanced against such a regulation the bill
met with warm opposition, on pretence that it would render useless the ancient records which
were written in that language, and introduce confusion and delay of justice, by altering the
established form and method of pleading: in spite of these objections it passed through both
houses, and obtained the royal assent. A great number of merchants from different parts of
the kingdom having repeated their complaints of depredations and cruelties committed by the
Spaniards in the West Indies, their petitions were referred to the consideration of a grand
committee. Their complaints upon examination appeared to be well founded. The house presented
an address to the king, desiring his majesty would bo graciously pleased to continue his endeavours
to prevent such depredations for the future; to procure full satisfaction for the damages already
sustained; and to secure to the British subjects the full and uninterrupted exercise of their
trade and navigation to and from the British colonies in America. The hill against pensions
produced a warm debate in the house of lords, where it was violently opposed by the dukes of
Newcastle and Argyle; the earl of Hay, and Dr. Sherlock, bishop of Bangor. This prelate, in
a remarkable speech, represented it as a scheme to enlarge the power of the house of commons,
and to break the balance between the powers essential to the constitution, so as sooner or
later to prove the ruin of the whole. The great barrier provided against bribery and corruption
by this bill, consisted in an oath to be imposed on all members of the lower house, by which
they must have solemnly sworn and declared, that they had not directly, nor indirectly, any
pension during pleasure, or for any number of years, or any office in part, or in the whole,
held for them, or for their benefit, by any persons whatsoever; and that they would not accept
any such pensions or offices, without signifying the same to the house within fourteen days
after they should be received or accepted. The bill was vindicated as just and necessary by
the earls of Winchelsea and Strafford, lord Bathurst, and lord Carteret, who had by this time
joined as an auxiliary in the opposition. [237] [See note 2 K, at the end of this Vol.]

{1731}

TREATY OF VIENNA.

The house of peers proceeded to consider the state of the national debt: they read a bill for
the free importation of wool from Ireland into England, which was fiercely opposed, and laid
aside, contrary to all the rules of sound policy. They passed the bill for carrying on proceedings
at law in the English language; and a fruitless motion was made by lord Bathurst for an address,
to desire his majesty would give directions for discharging the Hessian troops that were in
the pay of Great Britain. On the seventh day of May the parliament was prorogued, after the
king had given them to understand that all apprehensions of war were now happily removed, by
a treaty signed at Vienna between him and the emperor. He said it was communicated to the courts
of France and Spain, as parties to the treaty of Seville, the execution of which it principally
regarded; and that it likewise was submitted to the consideration of the states-general. He
observed, that the conditions and engagements into which he had entered on this occasion were
agreeable to that necessary concern which the British nation must always have for the security
and preservation of the balance of power in Europe; and that this happy turn, duly improved
with a just regard to former alliances, yielded a favourable prospect of seeing the public
tranquillity re-established.

DEATH OF THE DUKE OF PARMA.

In the month of January the duke of Parma died, after having made a will, in which he declared
his duchess was three months advanced in her pregnancy; entreating the allied powers of Europe
to have compassion upon his people, and defer the execution of their projects until his consort
should be delivered. In case the child should be still-born, or die after the birth, he bequeathed
his dominions and allodial estates to the infant Don Carlos of Spain; and appointed five regents
to govern the duchy. Notwithstanding this disposition, a body of Imperial troops immediately
took possession of Parma and Placentia, under the command of general Stampa, who declared they
should conduct themselves with all possible regularity and moderation, and leave the administration
entirely to the regents whom the duke had appointed. They publicly proclaimed in the market-place,
that they took possession of these duchies for the infant Don Carlos; and that if the duchess
dowager should not be delivered of a prince, the said infant might receive the investiture
from the emperor whenever he would, provided he should come without an army. Though these steps
seemed to threaten an immediate war, the king of Great Britain and the states-general interposed
their mediation so effectually with the court of Vienna, that the emperor desisted from the
prosecution of his design; and on the sixteenth day of March concluded at Vienna a treaty with
his Britannic majesty, by which he consented to withdraw his troops from Parma and Placentia.
He agreed, that the king of Spain might take possession of these places in favour of his son
Don Carlos, according to the treaty of Seville. He likewise agreed that the Ostend company,
which had given such umbrage to the maritime powers, should be totally dissolved, on condition
that the contracting powers concerned in the treaty of Seville should guarantee the pragmatic
sanction, or succession of the Austrian hereditary dominion to the heirs female of the emperor,
in case he should die without male issue. The Dutch minister residing at the Imperial court
did not subscribe this treaty, because, by the maxims received in that republic, and the nature
of her government, he could not be vested with full powers so soon as it would have been necessary:
nevertheless the states-general were, by a separate article, expressly named as a principal
contracting party.

DON CARLOS TAKES POSSESSION OF HIS TERRITORIES.

On the twenty-second day of July, a new treaty was signed at Vienna between the emperor and
the kings of Great Britain and Spain, tending to confirm the former. In August, a treaty of
union and defensive alliance between the electorates of Saxony and Hanover was executed at
Dresden. The court of Spain expressing some doubts with regard to the pregnancy of the duchess
of Parma, she underwent a formal examination by five midwives of different nations, in presence
of the elder duchess dowager, several ladies of quality, three physicians and a surgeon; and
was declared with child: nevertheless, after having kept all Europe in suspense for six months,
she owned she had been deceived; and general Stampa, with the Imperial forces, took formal
possession of the duchies of Parma and Placenta. Spain and the great duke of Tuscany having
acceded to the last treaty of Vienna, the crown of Great Britain engaged to equip an armament
that should convoy Don Carlos to his new dominions. Accordingly, sir Charles Wager sailed with
a strong squadron from Portsmouth on the twenty-sixth day of August; and in September arrived
at Barcelona, where-, being joined by the Spanish fleet and transports, they sailed together
to Leghorn; from whence the admiral returned to England. Don Carlos passed through part of
France, and embarking at Anti-bes on board of the Spanish galleys, arrived at Leghorn in December.
Then the Imperial general withdrew his forces into the Milanese; and the infant took possession
of his new territories.

FRANCE DISTRACTED BY RELIGIOUS DISPUTES.

During these transactions France was distracted by religious disputes, occasioned by the bull
Unigenitus thundered against the doctrines of Jansenius; a bull which had produced a schism
in the Gallican church, and well nigh involved that country in civil war and confusion. It
was opposed by the parliaments and lay tribunals of the kingdom; but many bishops, and the
Jesuits in general, were its most strenuous assertors. All the artifices of priestcraft were
practised on both sides to inflame the enthusiasm, and manage the superstition of the people.
Pretended miracles were wrought at the tomb of abbé Paris, who had died without accepting the
bull, consequently was declared damned by the abettors of that constitution. On the other hand,
the Jesuites exerted all their abilities and industry in preaching against the Jansenists;
in establishing an opinion of their superior sanctity; and inspiring a spirit of quietism among
their votaries, who were transported into the delirium of possession, illumination, and supernatural
converse. These arts were often used for the most infamous purposes. Female enthusiasts were
wrought up to such a violence of agitation, that nature fainted under the struggle, and the
pseudo saint seized this opportunity of violating the chastity of his penitent. Such was said
to be the case of mademoiselle la Cadiere, a young gentlewoman of Toulon, abused in this manner
by the lust and villany of Père Girard, a noted Jesuit, who underwent a trial before the parliament
of Aix, and very narrowly escaped the stake.

THE MINISTRY VIOLENTLY OPPOSED.

The parliament of Great Britain meeting on the thirteenth day of January, the king in his speech
declared, that the general tranquillity of Europe was restored and established by the last
treaty of Vienna; and Don Carlos was actually possessed of Parma and Placentia; that six thousand
Spaniards were quietly admitted and quartered in the duchy of Tuscany, to secure, by the express
consent and agreement of the great duke, the reversion of his dominions; and that a family
convention was made between the courts of Spain and Tuscany for preserving mutual peace and
friendship in the two houses. He told the commons, that the estimates for the service of the
current year would be considerably less than those of former years. He recommended unanimity;
he observed that his government had no security but what was equally conducive to their happiness,
and to the protection of his people: that their prosperity had no foundation but in the defence
and support of his government. "Our safety," said he, "is mutual, and our interests are inseparable."
The opposition to the court measures appears to have been uncommonly spirited during the course
of this session. The minister's motions were attacked with all the artillery of elocution.
His principal emissaries were obliged to task their faculties to their full exertion, to puzzle
and perplex where they could not demonstrate and convince, to misrepresent what they could
not vindicate, and to elude the arguments which they could not refute. In the house of commons,
lord Hervey, lately appointed vice-chamberlain of his majesty's household, made a motion for
an address of thanks, in which they should declare their entire approbation of the king's conduct,
acknowledge the blessings they enjoyed tinder his government, express their confidence in the
wisdom of his councils, and declare their readiness to grant the necessary supplies. This member,
son to the earl of Bristol, was a nobleman of some parts, which, however, were more specious
than solid. He condescended to act as a subaltern to the minister, and approved himself extremely
active in forwarding all his designs, whether as a secret emissary or public orator; in which
last capacity he appears to have been pert, frivolous, and frothy. His motion was seconded
by Mr. Clutterbuck, and opposed by sir Wilfred Lawson, Mr. Shippen, Mr. W. Pulteney, sir William
Wyndham, and Mr. Oglethorpe. They did not argue against a general address of thanks; but exposed
the absurdity and bad tendency of expressions which implied a blind approbation of all the
measures of the ministry. Sir Wilfred Lawson observed, that notwithstanding the great things
we had done for the crown of Spain, and the favours we had procured for the royal family of
that kingdom, little or no satisfaction had as yet been received for the injuries our merchants
had sustained from that nation. Mr. Pulteney took notice, that the nation, by becoming guarantee
to the pragmatic sanction, laid itself under an obligation to assist the Austrian family when
attacked by any potentate whatever, except the grand seignor; that they might be attacked when
it would be much against the interest of the kingdom to engage itself in a war upon any foreign
account; that it might one day be for the interest of the nation to join against them, in order
to preserve the balance of Europe, the establishing of which had already cost England such
immense sums of money. He insisted upon the absurdity of concluding such a number of inconsistent
treaties; and concluded with saying, that if affairs abroad were now happily established, the
ministry which conducted them might be compared to a pilot, who, though there was a clear,
safe, and straight channel into port, yet took it in his head to carry the ship a great way
about, through sands, rocks, and shallows; who, after having lost a great number of seamen,
destroyed a great deal of tackle and rigging, and subjected the owners to an enormous expense,
at last by chance hits the port, and triumphs in his good conduct. Sir William Wyndham spoke
to the same purpose. Mr. Oglethorpe, a gentlemen of unblemished character, brave, generous,
and humane, affirmed that many other things related more nearly to the honour and interest
of the nation, than did the guarantee of the pragmatic sanction. He said he wished to have
heard that the new works at Dunkirk had been entirely razed and destroyed; that the nation
had received full and complete satisfaction for the depredations committed by the natives of
Spain; that more care was taken in disciplining the militia, on whose valour the nation must
chiefly depend in case of invasion; and that some regard had been shown to the oppressed protestants
in Germany. He expressed his satisfaction to find that the English were not so closely united
to France as formerly; for he had generally observed that when two dogs were in a leash together,
the stronger generally ran away with the weaker; and this he was afraid had been the case between
France and Great Britain. The motion was vigorously defended by Mr. Pelham, paymaster of the
forces, and brother to the duke of Newcastle, a man whose greatest fault was his being concerned
in supporting the measures of a corrupt ministry. In other respects he was liberal, candid,
benevolent, and even attached to the interest of his country, though egregiously mistaken in
his notions of government. On this occasion, he insisted that it was no way inconsistent with
the honour or dignity of that house to thank his majesty in the most particular terms, for
every thing he had been pleased to communicate in his speech from the throne; that no expressions
of approbation in the address could be any way made use of to prevent an inquiry into the measures
which had been pursued, when the treaties should be laid before the house. He said, at the
opening of a session the eyes of all Europe were turned towards Great Britain, and from the
parliament's first resolves all the neighbouring powers judged of the unanimity that would
ensue between his majesty and the representatives of his people; that their appearing jealous
or diffident of his majesty's conduct, would weaken his influence upon the councils of foreign
states and potentates, and perhaps put it out of his power to rectify any false step that might
have been made by his ministers. His arguments were reinforced by a long speech from Mr. H.
Walpole. The question was put, the motion carried, and the address presented.

DEBATE ON A STANDING ARMY.

The next subject of debate was the number of land-forces. When the supply fell under consideration,
sir W. Strickland, secretary at war, moved that the same number which had been maintained in
the preceding year should be continued in pay. On the other hand, lord Morpeth having demonstrated
the danger to which the liberties of the nation might be exposed, by maintaining a numerous
standing army in time of peace, made a motion that the number should be reduced to twelve thousand.
A warm debate ensuing, was managed in favour of the first motion by lord Hervey, sir Robert
Walpole and his brother, Mr. Pelham, and sir Philip Yorke, attorney-general. This gentleman
was counted a better lawyer than a politician, and shone more as an advocate at the bar than
as an orator in the house of commons. The last partisan of the ministry was sir William Yonge,
one of the lords commissioners in the treasury; a man who rendered himself serviceable and
necessary by stooping to all compliances, running upon every scent, and haranguing on every
subject, with an even uninterrupted tedious flow of full declamation, composed of assertions
without veracity, conclusions from false premises, words without meaning, and language without
propriety. Lord Morpeth's motion was espoused by Mr. Watkin Williams Wynne, a gentleman of
an ancient family and opulent fortune in Wales, brave, open, hospitable, and warmly attached
to the ancient constitution and hierarchy; he was supported by Mr. Walter Plummer, who spoke
with weight, precision, and severity; by sir W, Wyndham, Mr. Shippen, Mr. W. Pulteney, and
Mr. Barnard. The courtiers argued that it was necessary to maintain such a number of land-forces
as might defeat the designs of malcontents, secure the interior tranquillity of the kingdom,
defend it from external assaults, overawe its neighbours, and enable it to take vigorous measures
in case the peace of Europe should be re-embroiled. They affirmed, the science of war was so
much altered, and acquired so much attention, that no dependance was to be placed upon a militia;
that all nations were obliged to maintain standing armies, for their security against the encroachments
of neighbouring powers; that the number of troops in Great Britain was too inconsiderable to
excite the jealousy of the people, even under an ambitious monarch; that his majesty never
entertained the least thought of infringing the liberties of his subjects; that it could not
be supposed that the officers, among whom were many gentlemen of family and fortune, would
ever concur in a design to enslave their country; and that the forces now in pay could not
be properly deemed a standing army, inasmuch as they were voted and maintained from year to
year by the parliament, which was the representative of the people. To these arguments the
members in the opposition replied, that a standing force in time of peace was unconstitutional,
and had been always thought dangerous; that a militia was as capable of discipline as a standing
army, and would have more incentives to courage and perseverance; that the civil magistrate
was able to preserve the peace of the country; that the number of the malcontents was altogether
contemptible, though it might be considerably augmented by maintaining a standing army, and
other such arbitrary measures; that other nations had been enslaved by standing armies; and
howsoever they might find themselves necessitated to depend upon a military force for security
against encroaching neighbours, the case was very different with regard to Great Britain, for
the defence of which nature had provided in a peculiar manner; that this provision was strengthened
and improved by a numerous navy, which secured her dominion of the sea; and, if properly disposed,
would render all invasion impracticable, or at least ineffectual; that the land-army of Great
Britain, though sufficient to endanger the liberties of an unarmed people, could not possibly
secure such an extent of coast, and therefore could be of very little service in preventing
an invasion; that though they had all imaginable confidence in his majesty's regard to the
liberty of the subjects, they could not help apprehending, that should a standing army become
part of the constitution, another prince of more dangerous talents, and more fatal designs,
might arise, and employ it for the worst purposes of ambition; that though many officers were
gentlemen of honour and probity, these might be easily discarded, and the army gradually moulded
into quite a different temper. By these means, practised in former times, an army had been
new modelled to such a degree, that they turned their swords against the parliament for whose
defence they had been raised, and destroyed the constitution both in church and state; that
with respect to its being wholly dependent on the parliament, the people of England would have
reason to complain of the same hardship, whether a standing army should be declared at once
indispensable, or regularly voted from year to year, according to the direction of the ministry;
that the sanction of the legislature granted to measures which in themselves are unconstitutional,
burdensome, odious, and repugnant to the genius of the nation, instead of yielding consolation,
would serve only to demonstrate that the most effectual method of forging the chains of national
slavery, would be that of ministerial influence operating upon a venal parliament. Such were
the reasons urged against a standing army, of what number soever it might be composed; but
the expediency of reducing the number from about eighteen thousand to twelve thousand, was
insisted upon as the natural consequence of his majesty's declaration, by which they were given
to understand that the peace of Europe was established; and that he had nothing so much at
heart as the ease and prosperity of his people. It was suggested, that if eighteen thousand
men were sufficient on the supposed eve of a general war in Europe, it was surely reasonable
to think that a less number would suffice when peace was perfectly re-established. Whatever
effect these reasons had upon the body of the nation, they made no converts in the house, where
the majority resolved that the standing army should be maintained without reduction. Mr. Plummer
complained that the country was oppressed by an arbitrary method of quartering soldiers, in
an undue proportion, upon those publicans who refused to vote in elections according to the
direction of the ministry. Mr. Pulteney asserted, that the money raised for the subsistence
of eighteen thousand men in England, would maintain sixty thousand French or Germans, or the
same number of almost any other people on the continent. Sir William Wyndham declared, that
eighteen thousand of the English troops in the late war were maintained on less than two-thirds
of the sum demanded for the like number; but no regard was paid to these allegations.

THE CHARITABLE CORPORATION.

The next object of importance that attracted the notice of the house, was the state of the
charitable corporation. This company was first erected in the year one thousand seven hundred
and seven. Their professed intention was to lend money at legal interest to the poor upon small
pledges; and to persons of better rank upon an indubitable security of goods impawned. Their
capital was at first limited to thirty thousand pounds, but, by licenses from the crown, they
increased it to six hundred thousand pounds, though their charter was never confirmed by act
of parliament. In the month of October, George Robinson, esquire, member for Mar-low, the cashier,
and John Thompson, warehouse-keeper of the corporation, disappeared in one day. The proprietors,
alarmed at this incident, held several general courts, and appointed a committee to inspect
the state of their affairs. They reported, that for a capital of above five hundred thousand
pounds no equivalent was found; inasmuch as their effects did not amount to the value of thirty
thousand, the remainder having been embezzled by means which they could not discover. The proprietors,
in a petition to the house of commons, represented that by the most notorious breach of trust
in several persons to whom the care and management of their affairs were committed, the corporation
had been defrauded of the greatest part of their capital; and that many of the petitioners
were reduced to the utmost degree of misery and distress; they therefore prayed, that as they
were unable to detect the combinations of those who had ruined them, or to bring the delinquents
to justice, without the aid of the power and authority of parliament, the house would vouchsafe
to inquire into the state of the corporation, and the conduct of their managers; and give such
relief to the petitioners as to the house should seem meet. The petition was graciously received,
and a secret committee appointed to proceed on the inquiry. They soon discovered a most iniquitous
scene of fraud, which had been acted by Robinson and Thompson, in concert with some of the
directors, for embezzling the capital, and cheating the proprietors. Many persons of rank and
quality were concerned in this infamous conspiracy; some of the first characters in the nation
did not escape suspicion and censure. Sir Robert Sutton and sir Archibald Grant were expelled
the house of commons, as having had a considerable share in those fraudulent practices; a bill
was brought in to restrain them and other delinquents from leaving the kingdom, or alienating
their effects. In the meantime, the committee received a letter from signior John Angelo Belloni,
an eminent banker at Rome, giving them to understand, that Thompson was secured in that city,
with all his papers, and confined to the castle of St. Angelo; and that the papers were transmitted
to his correspondent at Paris, who would deliver them up, on certain conditions stipulated
in favour of the prisoner. This letter was considered as an artifice to insinuate a favourable
opinion of the pretender, as if he had taken measures for securing Thompson, from his zeal
for justice and affection for the English people. On this supposition, the proposals were rejected
with disdain; and both houses concurred in an order that the letter should be burned at the
Royal Exchange, by the hands of the common hangman. The lower house resolved, that it was an
insolent and audacious libel, absurd and contradictory; that the whole transaction was a scandalous
artifice, calculated to delude the unhappy, and to disguise and conceal the wicked practices
of the professed enemies to his majesty's person, crown, and dignity.

REVIVAL OF THE SALT-TAX.

No motion during this session produced such a warm contest, as did that of sir Robert Walpole,
when, after a long preamble, he proposed that the duties on salt, which about two years before
had been abolished, should now be revived and given to his majesty, his heirs and successors,
for the term of three years. In order to sweeten this proposal, he declared that the land-tax
for the ensuing year should be reduced to one shilling in the pound. All the members of the
country party were immediately in commotion. They expressed their surprise at the grossness
of the imposition. They observed, that two years had scarcely elapsed since the king, in a
speech from the throne, had exhorted them to abolish some of the taxes that were the most burdensome
to the poor: the house was then of opinion, that the tax upon salt was the most burdensome
and the most pernicious to the trade of the kingdom, of all the impositions to which the poor
was subjected, and therefore it was taken off; but that no good reason could be produced for
altering their opinion so suddenly, and resolving to grind the faces of the poor, in order
to ease a few rich men of the landed interest. They affirmed, that the most general taxes are
not always the least burdensome: that after a nation is obliged to extend their taxes farther
than the luxuries of their country, those taxes that can be raised with the least charge to
the public are the most convenient and easiest to the people: but they ought carefully to avoid
taxing those things which are necessary for the subsistence of the poor. The price of all necessaries
being thus enhanced, the wages of the tradesman and manufacturer must be increased; and where
these are high the manufacturers will be undersold by those of cheaper countries. The trade
must of consequence be ruined; and it is not to be supposed that the landed gentlemen would
choose to save a shilling in the pound from the land-tax, by means of an expedient that would
ruin the manufactures of his country, and decrease the value of his own fortune. They alleged
that the salt-tax particularly affected the poor, who could not afford to eat fresh provisions;
and that, as it formerly occasioned murmurs and discontents among the lower class of people,
the revival of it would, in all probability, exasperate them into open sedition. They observed,
that while it was exacted in England, a great number of merchants sent their ships to Ireland,
to be victualled for their respective voyages; that since it had been abolished, many experiments
had been successfully tried with salt for the improvement of agriculture, which would be entirely
defeated by the revival of this imposition. They suggested that the land-tax was raised at
a very small expense, and subject to no fraud, whereas that upon salt would employ a great
number of additional officers in the revenue, wholly depending upon the ministry, whose influence
in elections they would proportionably increase. They even hinted, that this consideration
was one powerful motive for proposing the revival of an odious tax, which was in effect an
excise, and would be deemed a step towards a general excise upon all sorts of provisions. Finally,
they demonstrated that the salt-tax introduced numberless frauds and perjuries in different
articles of traffic. Sir Robert Walpole endeavoured to obviate all these objections in a long
speech, which was minutely answered and refuted in every article by Mr. Pulteney. Nevertheless,
the question being put, the minister's motion was carried in the affirmative, and the duty
revived; yet, before the bill passed, divers motions were made, and additional clauses proposed
by the members in the opposition. New debates were raised on every new objection, and the courtiers
were obliged to dispute their ground by inches.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

MR. PULTENEY'S NAME STRUCK OUT OF THE LIST OF PRIVY-COUNSELLORS.

The pension-bill was revived, and for the third time rejected in the house of lords. A bill
for the encouragement of the sugar colonies passed through the lower house with great difficulty,
but was lost among the peers: another, for the better securing the freedom of parliaments,
by further qualifying members to sit in the house of commons, was read the third time, and
thrown out upon the question. A committee had been appointed to inquire into a sale of the
estate which had belonged to the late earl of Denventwater. It appeared by the report, that
the sale had been fraudulent; a bill was prepared to make it void; Dennis Bond, esquire, and
Serjeant Birch, commissioners for the sale of the forfeited estates, were declared guilty of
notorious breach of trust, and expelled the house, of which they were members: George Robinson,
esquire, underwent the same sentence on account of the part he acted in the charitable corporation,
as he and Thompson had neglected to surrender themselves, according to the terms of a bill
which had passed for that purpose. During this session, five members of parliament were expelled
for the most sordid acts of knavery; a sure sign of national degeneracy and dishonour. All
the supplies were granted, and among other articles, the sum of two-and-twenty thousand six
hundred and ninety-four pounds, seven shillings and sixpence, for the agio or difference of
the subsidies payable to the crown of Denmark, in pursuance of the treaty subsisting between
the late king and that monarch; but this was not obtained without a violent dispute. Mr. Pulteney,
who bore a considerable share in all these debates, became in a little time so remarkable as
to be thought worthy of a very particular mark of his majesty's displeasure. The king, on the
first day of July, called for the council-book, and with his own hand struck the name of William
Pulteney, esquire, out of the list of privy-counsellors; his majesty further ordered him to
be put out of all the commissions of the peace. The several lord-lieutenants, from whom he
had received deputations, were commanded to revoke them; and the lord-chancellor and secretaries
of state were directed to give the necessary orders for that purpose.

THE KING SETS OUT FOR HANOVER.

Nor did the house of peers tamely and unanimously submit to the measures of the ministry. The
pension-bill being read, was again rejected, and a protest entered. A debate arose about the
number of standing forces; and the earl of Chesterfield argued for the court motion. The earl
of Oxford moved that they might be reduced to twelve thousand effective men. The earl of Winchelsea
observed, that a standing army rendered ministers of state more daring than otherwise they
would be, in contriving and executing projects that were grievous to the people; schemes that
could never enter into the heads of any but those who were drunk with excess of power. The
marquis of Tweedale, in reasoning against such a number as the ministry proposed, took occasion
to observe, that not one shilling of the forfeited estates was ever applied to the use of the
public; he likewise took notice, that the eighteen thousand men demanded as a standing force,
were modelled in such a manner, that they might be speedily augmented to forty thousand men
on any emergency. The duke of Argyle endeavoured to demonstrate the danger of depending for
the safety of the kingdom upon an undisciplined militia, a fleet, or an army of auxiliaries.
Then he represented the necessity of having recourse to a regular army in case of invasion;
and, after all, acknowledged that the number proposed was no way sufficient for that purpose.
All his arguments were answered and refuted in an excellent speech by lord Carteret; nevertheless,
victory declared for the minister. The parliament having granted every branch of the supply,
towards the payment of which they borrowed a sum from the sinking fund, and passed divers other
acts for the encouragement of commerce and agriculture, the king, on the first day of June,
gave the royal assent to the bills that were prepared, and closed the session, after having
informed both houses that the states-general had acceded to the treaty of Vienna; that he had
determined to visit his German dominions, and to leave the queen regent in his absence. He
accordingly set out for Hanover in the beginning of June. By this time the pragmatic sanction
was confirmed by the diet of the empire, though not without a formal protest by the electors
Palatine, Bavaria, and Saxony.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

CHAPTER II.

     Remarkable Instance of Suicide..... Affairs of the
     Continent..... Meeting of the Parliament..... Address to the
     King touching the Spanish Depredations..... The Excise
     Scheme proposed by Sir Robert Walpole..... Opposition to the
     Scheme..... Bill for a Dower to the Princess Royal----Debate
     in the House of Lords concerning the Estates of the late
     Directors of the South-Sea Company..... Double Election of a
     King in Poland..... The Kings of France, Spain, and
     Sardinia, join against the Emperor..... The Prince of Orange
     arrives in England..... Altercation in the House of
     Commons..... Debate about the Removal of the Duke of Bolton
     and Lord Viscount Cobham from their respective
     Regiments..... Motion for the Repeal of the Septennial
     Act..... Conclusion of a remarkable Speech by Sir W.
     Wyndham...... Message from the King for Powers to augment
     the Forces in the Intervals between the two Parliaments.....
     Opposition in the House of Peers..... Parliament
     dissolved..... Dantzic besieged by the Russians.....
     Philipsburgh taken by the French..... Don Carlos takes
     possession of Naples..... Battle of Parma..... The
     Imperialists are again worsted at Gustalla..... An Edict in
     France, compelling the British Subjects in that Kingdom to
     enlist in the French Army..... New Parliament in Great
     Britain..... Debate on a Subsidy to Denmark..... Petition of
     some Scottish Noblemen to the House of Peers..... Bill
     explaining an Act of the Scottish Parliament touching
     wrongous Imprisonment..... Misunderstanding between the
     Courts of Spain and Portugal..... Sir John Norris sails with
     a strong Squadron to Lisbon..... Preliminaries signed by the
     Emperor and the King of France..... Proceedings in
     Parliament..... Bill for preventing the Retail of Spiritous
     Liquors..... Another for the Relief of Quakers in the
     Article of Tithes..... Mortmain Act..... Remarkable Riot at
     Edinburgh..... Rupture between the Czarina and the Ottoman
     Porte..... The Session of Parliament opened by
     Commission..... Motion in both Houses for a Settlement on
     the Prince of Wales..... Fierce Debate on this Subject.....
     Scheme by Sir John Barnard for reducing the Interest of the
     National Debt..... Bill against the City of Edinburgh.....
     Play-house Bill.

{1732}

REMARKABLE INSTANCE OF SUICIDE.

The most remarkable incident that distinguished this year in England was a very uncommon instance
of suicide; an act of despair so frequent among the English, that in other countries it is
objected to them as a national reproach. Though it may be generally termed the effect of lunacy
proceeding from natural causes operating on the human body, in some few instances it seems
to have been the result of cool deliberation. Richard Smith, a bookbinder, and prisoner for
debt within the liberties of the king's bench, persuaded his wife to follow his example in
making away with herself, after they had murdered their little infant. This wretched pair were,
in the month of April, found hanging in their bed-chamber, at about a yard's distance from
each other; and in a separate apartment the child lay dead in a cradle. They left two papers
enclosed in a short letter to their landlord, whose kindness they implored in favour of their
dog and cat. They even left money to pay the porter who should carry the enclosed papers to
the person for whom they were addressed. In one of these the husband thanked that person for
the marks of friendship he had received at his hands; and complained of the ill offices he
had undergone from a different quarter. The other paper, subscribed by the husband and wife,
contained the reasons which induced them to act such a tragedy on themselves and their offspring.
This letter was altogether surprising for the calm resolution, the good humour, and the propriety
with which it was written. They declared, that they withdrew themselves from poverty and rags--evils
that, through a train of unlucky accidents, were become inevitable. They appealed to their
neighbours for the industry with which they had endeavoured to earn a livelihood. They justified
the murder of their child, by saying, it was less cruelty to take her with them, than to leave
her friendless in the world, exposed to ignorance and misery. They professed their belief and
confidence in Almighty God, the fountain of goodness and beneficence, who could not possibly
take delight in the misery of his creatures; they therefore resigned up their lives to him
without any terrible apprehensions; submitting themselves to those ways which, in his goodness,
he should appoint after death. These unfortunate suicides had been always industrious and frugal,
invincibly honest, and remarkable for conjugal affection.

AFFAIRS OF THE CONTINENT.

Trustees having been appointed by charter to superintend a new settlement in Georgia, situated
to the southward of Carolina in America, Mr. Oglethorpe, as general and governor of the province,
embarked at Gravesend, with a number of poor families, to plant that colony. The king of Spain
having equipped a very powerful armament, the fleet sailed on the fourth of June from the road
of Alicant, under the command of the count de Montemar, and arrived on the coast of Barbary
in the neighbourhood of Oran, where a considerable body of troops was landed without much opposition.
Next day, however, they were attacked by a numerous army of Moors, over whom they obtained
a complete victory. The bey or governor of Oran immediately retired with his garrison, and
the Spaniards took possession of the place, from which they had been driven in the year one
thousand seven hundred and eight. The strong fort of Mazalaquivir was likewise surrendered
to the victors at the first summons; so that this expedition answered all the views with which
it had been projected. Victor Amadasus, the abdicated king of Sardinia, having, at the instigation
of his wife, engaged in some intrigues in order to reascend the throne, his son, the reigning
king, ordered his person to be seized at Montcalier, and conveyed to Rivoli, under a strong
escort. His wife, the marchioness de Spigno, was conducted to Seva. The old king's confessor,
his physician, and eight-and-forty persons of distinction, were imprisoned. The citadel of
Turin was secured with a strong garrison; and new instructions were given to the governor and
senate of Chamberri. The dispute which had long subsisted between the king of Prussia and the
young prince of Orange, touching the succession to the estates possessed by king William III.
as head of the house of Orange, was at last accommodated by a formal treaty signed at Berlin
and Dieren. The Dutch were greatly alarmed about this time with an apprehension of being overwhelmed
by an inundation, occasioned by worms, which were said to have consumed the piles and timber-work
that supported their dykes. They prayed and fasted with uncommon zeal, in terror of this calamity,
which they did not know how to avert in any other manner. At length they were delivered from
their fears by a hard frost, which effectually destroyed those dangerous animals. About this
time, Mr. Dieden, plenipotentiary from the elector of Hanover, received, in the name of his
master, the investiture of Bremen and Verden from the hands of the emperor.

MEETING OF THE PARLIAMENT.

The history of England at this period cannot be very interesting, as it chiefly consists in
an annual revolution of debates in parliament,--debates, in which the same arguments perpetually
recur on the same subjects. When the session was opened on the sixteenth day of January, the
king declared that the situation of affairs, both at home and abroad, rendered it unnecessary
for him to lay before the two houses any other reasons for calling them together, but the ordinary
dispatch of the public business, and his desire of receiving their advice in such affairs as
should require the care and consideration of parliament. The motion made in the house of commons
for an address of thanks, implied, that they should express their satisfaction at the present
situation of affairs both at home and abroad. The motion was carried, notwithstanding the opposition
of those who observed, that the nation had very little reason to be pleased with the present
posture of affairs; that the French were employed in fortifying and restoring the harbour of
Dunkirk, contrary to the faith of the most solemn treaties; that the British merchants had
received no redress for the depredations committed by the Spaniards; that the commerce of England
daily decreased; that no sort of trade throve but the traffic of Change-alley, where the most
abominable frauds were practised; and that every session of parliament opened a new scene of
villany and imposition.

ADDRESS TO THE KING.

The pension-bill was once more revived, and lost again in the house of peers. All the reasons
formerly advanced against a standing army were now repeated; and a reduction of the number
insisted upon with such warmth, that the ministerial party were obliged to have recourse to
the old phantom of the pretender. Sir Archer Croft said, a continuation of the same number
of forces was the more necessary, because, to his knowledge, popery was increasing very fast
in the country; for in one parish which he knew, there were seven popish priests; and that
the danger from the pretender was the more to be feared, because they did not know but he was
then breeding his son a protestant. Sir Robert Walpole observed, that a reduction of the army
was the chief thing wished for and desired by all the Jacobites in the kingdom; that no reduction
had ever been made but what gave fresh hopes to that party, and encouraged them to raise tumults
against the government; and he did not doubt but that, if they should resolve to reduce any
part of the army, there would be post-horses employed that very night to carry the good news
beyond sea to the pretender. His brother Horatio added, that the number of troops then proposed
was absolutely necessary to support his majesty's government, and would be necessary as long
as the nation enjoyed the happiness of having the present illustrious family on the throne.
The futility, the self-contradiction, and the ridiculous absurdity of these suggestions, were
properly exposed; nevertheless, the army was voted without any reduction. Sir Wilfred Lawson
having made a motion for an address to the king, to know what satisfaction had been made by
Spain for the depredations committed on the British merchants, it was, after a violent debate,
approved and the address presented. The king in answer to this remonstrance gave them to understand,
that the commissaries of the two crowns had been so long delayed by unforeseen accidents, that
the conferences were not opened till the latter end of the preceding February; and that as
the courts of London and Madrid had agreed that the term of three years stipulated for finishing
the commission should be computed from their first meeting, a perfect account of their proceedings
could not as yet be laid before the house of commons. A bill had been long depending for granting
encouragement to the sugar colonies in the West Indies; but, as it was founded upon a prohibition
that would have put a stop to all commerce between the French islands and the British settlements
in North America, it met with a very warm opposition from those who had the prosperity of those
northern colonies at heart. But the bill being patronised and supported by the court interest,
surmounted all objections, and afterwards passed into a law. While the commons deliberated
upon the supply, sir Robert Walpole moved, that five hundred thousand pounds should be issued
out of the sinking fund for the service of the ensuing year. Sir William Wyndham, Mr. Pulteney,
and sir John Barnard, expatiated upon the iniquity of pillaging a sacred deposit, solemnly
appropriated to the discharge of the national debt. They might have demonstrated the egregious
folly of a measure, by which the public, for a little temporary ease, lost the advantage of
the accumulating interest which would have arisen from the sinking fund, if properly managed
and reserved. All objections vanished before the powers of ministerial influence, which nothing
now could check but the immediate danger of popular commotion. Such hazardous interposition
actually defeated a scheme which had been adopted by the minister, and even before its appearance
alarmed all the trading part of the nation.

THE EXCISE SCHEME PROPOSED.

The house having resolved itself into a committee, to deliberate upon the most proper methods
for the better security and improvement of the duties and revenues charged upon tobacco and
wines, all the papers relating to these duties were submitted to the perusal of the members;
the commissioners of the customs and excise were ordered to attend the house, the avenues of
which were crowded with multitudes of people; and the members in the opposition waited impatiently
for a proposal, in which they thought the liberties of their country so deeply interested.
In a word, there had been a call of the house on the preceding day. The session was frequent
and full; and both sides appeared ready and eager for the contest when sir Robert Walpole broached
his design. He took notice of the arts which had been used to prejudice the people against
his plan before it was known. He affirmed that the clamours occasioned by these prejudices
had originally risen from smugglers and fradulent dealers, who had enriched themselves by cheating
the public; and that these had been strenuously assisted and supported by another set of men,
fond of every opportunity to stir up the people of Great Britain to mutiny and sedition. He
expatiated on the frauds that were committed in that branch of the revenue arising from the
duties on tobacco; upon the hardships to which the American planters were subjected by the
heavy duties payable on importation, as well as by the ill usage they had met with from their
factors and correspondents in England, who, from being their servants, were now become their
masters; upon the injury done to the fair trader; and the loss sustained by the public with
respect to the revenue. He asserted that the scheme he was about to propose would remove all
these inconveniencies, prevent numberless frauds, perjuries, and false entries, and add two
or three hundred thousand pounds per annum to the public revenue. He entered into a long detail
of frauds practised by the knavish dealers in those commodities; he recited the several acts
of parliament that related to the duties on wine and tobacco; he declared he had no intention
to promote a general excise; he endeavoured to obviate some objections that might be made to
his plan, the nature of which he at length explained. He proposed to join the laws of excise
to those of the customs; that the further subsidy of three farthings per pound charged upon
imported tobacco, should be still levied at the custom-house, and payable to his majesty's
civil list as heretofore; that then the tobacco should be lodged in warehouses, to be appointed
for that purpose by the commissioners of the excise; that the keeper of each warehouse, appointed
likewise hy the commissioners, should have one lock and key, and the merchant-importer have
another; and that the tobacco should be thus secured until the merchant should find vent for
it, either by exportation or home consumption; that the part designed for exportation should
be weighed at the customhouse, discharged of the three farthings per pound which had been paid
at its first importation, and then exported without further trouble; that the portion destined
for home consumption should, in presence of the warehouse-keeper, be delivered to the purchaser,
upon his paying the inland duty of fourpence per pound weight, to the proper officer appointed
to receive it; by which means the merchant would be eased of the inconvenience of paying the
duty upon importation, or of granting bonds and finding sureties for the payment, before he
had found a market for the commodity; that all penalties and forfeitures, so far as they formerly
belonged to the crown, should for the future be applied to the use of the public; that appeals
in this, as well as in all other cases relating to the excise, should be heard and determined
by two or three of the judges, to be named by his majesty; and in the country, by the judge
of assize upon the next circuit, who should hear and determine such appeals in the most summary
manner, without the formality of proceedings in courts of law or equity.

Such was the substance of the famous excise scheme, in favour of which sir Robert Walpole moved
that tha duties and subsidies on tobacco should, from and after the twenty-fourth day of June,
cease and determine. The debate which ensued was managed and maintained by all the able speakers
on both sides of the question. Sir Robert Walpole was answered by Mr. Perry, member for the
city of London. Sir Paul Methuen joined in the opposition. Sir John Barnard, another representative
of London, distinguished himself in the same cause.

He was supported by Mr. Pulteney, sir William Wyndham, and other patriots. The scheme was espoused
by sir Philip Yorke, appointed lord-chief-justice of the king's-bench, and ennobled in the
course of the ensuing year. Sir Joseph Jekyll approved of the project, which was likewise strenuously
defended by lord Hervey, sir Thomas Robinson, sir William Yonge, Mr. Pelham, and Mr. Wilmington,
which last excelled all his contemporaries of the ministry in talents and address. Those who
argued against the scheme, accused the minister of having misrepresented the frauds and made
false calculations. With respect to the supposed hardships under which the planters were said
to labour, they affirmed that no planter had ever dreamed of complaining, until instigated
by letters and applications from London: that this scheme, far from relieving the planters,
would expose the factors to such grievous oppression, that they would not be able to continue
the trade, consequently the planters would be entirely ruined; and, after all, it would not
prevent those frauds against which it was said to be provided: that from the examination of
the commissioners of the customs, it appeared that those frauds did not exceed forty thousand
pounds per annum, and might in a great measure be abolished, by a due execution of the laws
in being; consequently this scheme was unnecessary, would be ineffectual in augmenting the
revenue, destructive to trade, and dangerous to the liberties of the subject, as it tended
to promote a general excise, which was in all countries considered as a grievous oppression.
They suggested that it would produce an additional swarm of excise officers and warehouse-keepers,
appointed and paid by the treasury, so as to multiply the dependents on the crown, and enable
it still further to influence the freedom of elections: that the traders would become slaves
to excisemen and warehouse-keepers, as they would be debarred all access to their commodities,
except at certain hours, when attended by those officers: that the merchant, for every quantity
of tobacco he could sell, would be obliged to make a journey, or send a messenger to the office
for a permit, which could not be obtained without trouble, expense, and delay: and that should
a law be enacted in consequence of this motion, it would in all probability be some time or
other used as a precedent for introducing excise laws into every branch of the revenue; in
which case the liberty of Great Britain would be no more. In the course of this debate, sir
Robert Walpole took notice of the multitudes which had beset all the approaches to the house.
He said it would be an easy task for a designing seditious person to raise a tumult and disorder
among them: that gentlemen might give them what name they should think fit, and affirm they
were come as humble suppliants; but he knew whom the law called sturdy beggars: and those who
brought them to that place could not be certain but that they might behave in the same manner.
This insinuation was resented by sir John Barnard, who observed that merchants of character
had a right to come down to the court of requests, and lobby of the house of commons, in order
to solicit their friends and acquaintance against any scheme or project which they might think
prejudicial to their commerce: that when he came into the house, he saw none but such as deserved
the appellation of sturdy beggars as little as the honourable gentleman himself, or any gentleman
whatever.

{1733}

After a warm dispute, the motion was carried by a majority of sixty-one voices. Several resolutions
were founded on the proposal: and to these the house agreed, though not without another violent
contest. The resolutions produced a bill, against which petitions were preferred by the lord-mayor,
aldermen, and common-council of London, the city of Coventry and Nottingham. A motion was made
that counsel should be heard for the city of London; but it was rejected by the majority, and
the petitions were ordered to lie upon the table. Had the minister encountered no opposition
but that which appeared within doors, his project would have certainly been carried into execution;
but the whole nation was alarmed, and clamoured loudly against the excise-bill. The populace
still crowded around Westminster-hall, blocking up all the avenues to the house of commons.
They even insulted the persons of those members who had voted for the ministry on this occasion;
and sir Robert Walpole began to be in fear of his life. He therefore thought proper to drop
the design, by moving that the second reading of the bill might be postponed till the twelfth
day of June. Then complaint being made of the insolence of the populace, who had maltreated
several members, divers resolutions were taken against those tumultuous crowds and their abettors;
these resolves were communicated to the lord-mayor of London, the sheriff of Middlesex, and
the high-bailiff of Westminster. Some individuals were apprehended in the court of requests,
as having fomented the disturbances; but they were soon released. The miscarriage of the bill
was celebrated with public rejoicings in London and Westminster, and the minister was burned
in effigy by the populace. After the miscarriage of the excise scheme, the house unanimously
resolved to inquire into the frauds and abuses in the customs; and a committee of twenty-one
persons was chosen by ballot for this purpose.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

BILL FOR A DOWER TO THE PRINCESS ROYAL.

The subsequent debates of this session were occasioned by a bill to prevent the infamous practice
of stock-jobbing, which with great difficulty made its way to the house of lords, who proposed
some amendments, in consequence of which it was laid aside; and succeeded by another bill establishing
a lottery, to raise five hundred thousand pounds for the relief of those who had suffered by
the charitable corporation. After having undergone some alteration, it passed through both
houses and obtained the royal assent. The king, by message to parliament, had signified his
intention to give the princess royal in marriage to the prince of Orange, promising himself
their concurrence and assistance, that he might be enabled to bestow such a portion with his
eldest daughter as should be suitable to the occasion. The commons immediately resolved, that
but of the monies arising from the sale of lands in the island of St. Christopher's, his majesty
should be empowered to apply fourscore thousand pounds as a marriage dower for his daughter;
and a clause for this purpose was inserted in the bill, for enabling his majesty to apply five
hundred thousand pounds out of the sinking fund for the service of the current year.

The opposition in the house of lords was still more animated, though ineffectual. The debates
chiefly turned upon the pension bill, the number of land forces, and a motion made by lord
Bathurst for an account of the produce of the forfeited estates which had belonged to the directors
of the South-Sea company. The trustees for these estates had charged themselves with a great
sum of money, and the lords in the opposition thought they had a right to know how it had been
disposed. The ministry had reasons to stifle this inquiry, and therefore opposed it with all
their vigour. Nevertheless, the motion was carried after a warm dispute, and the directors
of the South-Sea company were ordered to lay the accounts before the house. From this it appeared
that the large sums of money arising from the forfeited estates had been distributed among
the proprietors, by way of dividend, even before recourse was had to parliament for directions
in what manner that produce should be applied: lord Bathurst, therefore, moved for a resolution
of the house that the disposal of this money, by way of dividend, without any order or direction
of a general court for that purpose, was a violation of the act of parliament made for the
disposal thereof, and a manifest injustice done to the proprietors of that stock. The duke
of Newcastle, in order to gain time, moved, that as the account was confused, and almost unintelligible,
the present directors of the company might be ordered to lay before the house a further and
more distinct account of the manner in which the money had been disposed. A violent contest
ensued, in the course of which the house divided, and of fifty-seven peers who voted for the
delay, forty-six were such as enjoyed preferment in the church, commissions in the army, or
civil employments under the government. At length lord Bathurst waived his motion for that
time; then the house ordered that the present and former directors of the South-Sea company,
together with the late inspectors of their accounts, should attend and be examined. They were
accordingly interrogated, and gave so little satisfaction, that lord Bathurst moved for a committee
of inquiry; but the question being put, was carried in the negative: yet a very strong protest
was entered by the lords in the opposition. The next subject of altercation was the bill for
misapplying part of the produce of the sinking fund. It was attacked with all the force of
argument, wit, and declamation, by the earl of Strafford, lords Bathurst and Carteret, and
particularly by the earl of Chesterfield, who had by this time resigned his staff of lord-steward
of the household, and renounced all connexion with the ministry. Lord Bathurst moved for a
resolution, importing that, in the opinion of the house, the sinking fund ought for the future
to be applied, in time of peace and public tranquillity, to the redemption of those taxes which
were most prejudicial to the trade, most burdensome on the manufactures, and most oppressive
on the poor of the nation. This motion was overruled, and the bill adopted by the majority.
On the eleventh of June, the king gave the royal assent to the bills that were prepared, and
closed the session with a speech, in which he took notice of the wicked endeavours that had
been lately used to inflame the minds of the people by the most unjust misrepresentations.

DOUBLE ELECTION OF A KING OF POLAND.

Europe was now reinvolved in fresh troubles by a vacancy on the throne of Poland. Augustus
died at Warsaw in the end of January, and the neighbouring powers were immediately in commotion.
The elector of Saxony, son to the late king, and Stanislaus, whose daughter was married to
the French monarch, declared themselves candidates for the Polish throne. The emperor, the
czarina, and the king of Prussia, espoused the interests of the Saxon: the king of France supported
the pretensions of his father-in-law. The foreign ministers at Warsaw forthwith began to form
intrigues among the electors: the marquis de Monti, ambassador from France, exerted himself
so successfully, that he soon gained over the primate, and a majority of the catholic dietines,
to the interests of Stanislaus; while the Imperial and Russian troops hovered on the frontiers
of Poland. The French king no sooner understood that a body of the emperor's forces was encamped
at Silesia, than he ordered the duke of Berwick to assemble an army on the Rhine, and take
measures for entering Germany in case the Imperialists should march into Poland. A French fleet
set sail for Dantzic, while Stanislaus travelled through Germany in disguise to Poland, and
concealed himself in the house of the French ambassador at Warsaw. As the day of election approached,
the Imperial, Russian, and Prussian ministers delivered in their several declarations, by way
of protest, against the contingent election of Stanislaus, as a person proscribed, disqualified,
depending upon a foreign power, and connected with the Turks and other infidels. The Russian
general Lasci entered Poland at the head of fifty thousand men: the diet of the election was
opened with the usual ceremony on the twenty-fifth day of August. Prince Viesazowski, chief
of the Saxon interest, retired to the other side of the Vistula, with three thousand men, including
some of the nobility who adhered to that party. Nevertheless, the primate proceeded to the
election: Stanislaus was unanimously chosen king; and appeared in the electoral field, where
he was received with loud acclamations. The opposite party soon increased to ten thousand men;
protested against the election, and joined the Russian army, which advanced by speedy marches.
King Stanislaus finding himself unable to cope with such adversaries, retired with the primate
and French ambassador to Dantzic, leaving the palatine of Kiow at Warsaw. This general attacked
the Saxon palace, which was surrendered upon terms: then the soldiers and inhabitants plundered
the houses belonging to the grandees who had declared for Augustus, as well as the hotel of
the Russian minister. In the meantime, the Poles, who had joined the Muscovites, finding it
impracticable to pass the Vistula before the expiration of the time fixed for the session of
the diet, erected a kelo at Cracow, where the elector of Saxony was chosen and proclaimed by
the bishop of Cracow, king of Poland, under the name of Augustus III., on the sixth day of
October. They afterwards passed the river, and the palatine of Kiow retiring towards Cracow,
they took possession of Warsaw, where in their turn they plundered the palaces and houses belonging
to the opposite party.

CONFEDERACY AGAINST THE EMPEROR.

During these transactions, the French king concluded a treaty with Spain and Sardinia, by which
those powers agreed to declare war against the emperor. Manifestoes were published reciprocally
by all the contracting powers. The duke of Berwick passed the Rhine in October, and undertook
the seige of fort Kehl, which in a few days was surrendered on capitulation: then he repassed
the river and returned to Versailles. The king of Sardinia having declared war against the
emperor, joined a body of French forces commanded by mareschal de Villars, and drove the Imperialists
out of the Milanese. His Imperial majesty, dreading the effects of such a powerful confederacy
against him, offered to compromise all differences with the crown of Spain, under the mediation
of the king of Great Britain; and Mr. Keene, the British minister at Madrid, proposed an accommodation.
Philip expressed his acknowledgments to the king of England, declaring, however, that the emperor's
advances were too late, and that his own resolutions were already taken. Nevertheless, he sent
orders to the count de Montijo, his ambassador at London, to communicate to his Britannic majesty
the motives which had induced him to take these resolutions. In the meantime he detached a
powerful armament to Italy, where they invested the Imperial fortress of Aula, the garrison
of which was obliged to surrender themselves prisoners of war. The republic of Venice declared
she would take no share in the disputes of Italy; the states-general signed a neutrality with
the French king for the Austrian Netherlands, without consulting the emperor or the king of
Great Britain; and the English councils seemed to be altogether pacific.

ARRIVAL OF THE PRINCE OF ORANGE.

In November the prince of Orange arrived at Greenwich, in order to espouse the princess royal;
but the marriage was postponed on account of his being taken ill: and he repaired to Bath,
in Somersetshire, to drink the water for the recovery of his strength. Henrietta, the young
duchess of Marlborough, dying about this time, the title devolved to her sister's son, the
earl of Sunderland. Lord King resigning his office of chancellor, it was conferred upon Mr.
Talbot, solicitor-general, together with the title of baron; a promotion that reflected honour
upon those by whom it was advised. He possessed the spirit of a Roman senator, the elegance
of an Atticus, and the integrity of a Cato. At the meeting of the parliament in January, the
king told them, in his speech, that though he was no way engaged in the war which had begun
to rage in Europe, except by the good offices he had employed among the contending powers,
he could not sit regardless of the present events, or be unconcerned for the consequences of
a war undertaken and supported by such a powerful alliance. He said, he had thought proper
to take time to examine the facts alleged on both sides, and to wait the result of the councils
of those powers that were more immediately interested in the consequences of the rupture. He
declared he would concert with his allies, more particularly with the states-general of the
United Provinces, such measures as should be thought most advisable for their common safety,
and for restoring the peace of Europe. In the meantime, he expressed his hope that they would
make such provision as should secure his kingdom, rights, and possessions from all dangers
and insults, and maintain the respect due to the British nation. He said, that whatever part
it might in the end be most reasonable for him to act, it would in all views be necessary,
when all Europe was preparing for arms, to put his kingdom in a posture of defence. The motion
for an address of thanks produced as usual a debate in both houses, which, it must be owned,
appears to have proceeded from a spirit of cavilling, rather than from any reasonable cause
of objection.

ALTERCATION IN THE COMMONS.

The house of commons resolved to address his majesty for a copy of the treaty of Vienna. Sir
John Rushout moved for another, desiring that the letters and instructions relating to the
execution of the treaty of Seville, should be submitted to the inspection of the commons; but,
after a hard struggle, it was over-ruled. The next motion was made by Mr. Sandys, a gentleman
who had for some time appeared strenuous in the opposition, and wrangled with great perseverance.
He proposed that the house should examine the instructions which had been given to the British
minister in Poland, some years before the death of king Augustus, that they might be the better
able to judge of the causes which produced this new rupture among the powers of Europe. The
motion being opposed by all the court members, a contest ensued, in the course of which Mr.
Pulteney compared the ministry to an empyric, and the constitution of England to his patient.
This pretender in physic, said he, being consulted, tells the distempered person there were
but two or three ways of treating his disease; and he was afraid that none of them would succeed.
A vomit might throw him into convulsions that would occasion immediate death; a purge might
bring on a diarrhoea that would carry him off in a short time; and he had been already bled
so much, and so often, that he could bear it no longer. The unfortunate patient, shocked at
this declaration, replies, "Sir, you have always pretended to be a regular doctor; but now
I find you are an arrant quack. I had an excellent constitution when I first fell into your
hands, but you have quite destroyed it; and now I find I have no other chance for saving my
life, but by calling for the help of some regular physician." In the debate, the members on
both sides seemed to wander from the question, and indulge themselves in ludicrous personalities.
Mr. H. Walpole took occasion to say, that the opposition treated the ministry as he himself
was treated by some of his acquaintances with respect to his dress. "If I am in plain clothes,"
said he, "then they call me a slovenly dirty fellow; and if by chance I wear a laced suit,
they cry, What, shall such an awkward fellow wear fine clothes?" He continued to sport in this
kind of idle buffoonery. He compared the present administration to a ship at sea. As long as
the wind was fair, and proper for carrying us to our designed port, the word was, "Steady!
steady!" but when the wind began to shift and change, the word was necessarily altered to "Thus,
thus, and no nearer." The motion was overpowered by the majority; and this was the fate of
several other proposals made by the members in the opposition. Sir John Barnard presented a
petition from the druggists, and other dealers in tea, complaining of the insults and oppression
to which they were subjected by the excise laws, and imploring relief. Sir John and Mr. Perry,
another of the city members, explained the grievous hardships which those traders sustained,
and moved that the petition might be referred to the consideration of the whole house. They
were opposed by Mr. Winnington, sir W. Yonge, and other partisans of the ministry; and these
skirmishes brought on a general engagement of the two parties, in which every weapon of satire,
argument, reason, and truth, was wielded against that odious, arbitrary, and oppressive method
of collecting the public revenue. Nevertheless, the motion in favour of the sufferers was rejected.
When the commons deliberated upon the supply, Mr. Andrews, deputy-paymaster of the army, moved
for an addition of eighteen hundred men to the number of land forces which had been continued
since the preceding year. The members in the opposition disputed this small augmentation with
too much heat and eagerness. It must be acknowledged, they were by this time irritated into
such personal animosity against the minister, that they resolved to oppose all his measures,
whether they might or might not be necessary for the safety and advantage of the kingdom. Nor
indeed were they altogether blameable for acting on this maxim, if their sole aim was to remove
from the confidence and councils of their sovereign, a man whose conduct they thought prejudicial
to the interests and liberties of their country. They could not, however, prevent the augmentation
proposed; but they resolved, if they could not wholly stop the career of the ministry, to throw
in such a number of rubs as should at least retard their progress. The duke of Bolton and lord
Cobham had been deprived of the regiments they commanded, because they refused to concur in
every project of the administration. It was in consequence of their dismission, that lord Morpeth
moved for a bill to prevent any commissioned officer, not above the rank of a colonel, from
being removed, unless by a court-martial, or by address of either house of parliament. Such
an attack on the prerogative might have succeeded in the latter part of the reign of the first
Charles; but at this juncture could not fail to miscarry; yet it was sustained with great vigour
and address. When the proposal was set aside by the majority, Mr. Sandys moved for an address
to the king, desiring to know who advised his majesty to remove the duke of Bolton and lord
Cob-ham from their respective regiments. He was seconded by Mr. Pulteney and sir William Wyndham;
but the ministry foreseeing another tedious dispute, called for the question, and the motion
was carried in the negative. The next source of contention was a bill for securing the freedom
of parliament, by limiting the number of officers in the house of commons. It was read a first
and second time; but when a motion was made for its being committed, it met with a powerful
opposition, and produced a warm debate that issued in a question which, like the former, passed
in the negative. A clergyman having insinuated in conversation that sir William Milner, baronet,
member for York, received a pension from the ministry, the house took cognizance of this report;
the clergyman acknowledged at the bar that he might have dropped such a hint from hearsay.
The accused member protested, upon his honour, that he never did nor ever would receive place,
pension, gratuity, or reward from the court, either directly or indirectly, for voting in parliament,
or upon any other account whatever. The accusation was voted false and scandalous, and the
accuser taken into custody; but in a few days he was discharged upon his humble petition, and
his begging pardon of the member whom he had calumniated. The duty upon salt was prolonged
for eight years; and a bill passed against stock-jobbing.

MOTION FOR THE REPEAL OF THE SEPTENNIAL ACT.

But the subject which of all others employed the eloquence and abilities on both sides to the
most vigorous exertion, was a motion made by Mr. Bromley, who proposed that a bill should be
brought in for repealing the septenntal act, and for the more frequent meeting and calling
of parliaments. The arguments for and against septennial parliaments have already been stated.
The ministry now insisted upon the increase of papists and Jacobites, which rendered it dangerous
to weaken the hands of the government; they challenged the opposition to produce one instance
in which the least encroachment had been made on the liberties of the people since the septennial
act took place; and they defied the most ingenious malice to prove that his present majesty
had ever endeavoured to extend any branch of the prerogative beyond its legal bounds. Sir John
Hinde Cotton affirmed, that in many parts of England the papists had already begun to use all
their influence in favour of those candidates who were recommended by the ministers as members
in the ensuing parliament. With respect to his majesty's conduct, he said he would not answer
one word; but as to the grievances introduced since the law was enacted for septennial parliaments,
he thought himself more at liberty to declare his sentiments. He asserted, that the septennial
law itself was an encroachment on the rights of the people; a law passed by a parliament that
made itself septennial. He observed, that the laws of treason with regard to trials were altered
since that period; that in former times a man was tried by a jury of his neighbours, within
the county where the crimes alleged against him were said to be committed; but by an act of
a septennial parliament he might be removed and tried in any place where the crown, or rather
the ministry, could find a jury proper for their purpose; where the prisoner could not bring
any witnesses in his justification, without an expense which perhaps his circumstances would
not bear. He asked, if the riot act was not an encroachment on the rights of the people? An
act by which a little dirty justice of the peace, the meanest and vilest tool a minister can
use, who, perhaps subsists by his being in the commission, and may be deprived of that subsistence
at the pleasure of his patron, had it in his power to put twenty or thirty of the best subjects
in England to immediate death, without any trial or form but that of reading a proclamation.
"Was not the fatal South-Sea scheme," said he, "established by the act of a septennial parliament?
And can any man ask, whether that law was attended with any inconvenience; to the glorious
catalogue I might have added the late excise bill, if it had passed into a law; but, thank
heaven, the septennial parliament was near expiring before that famous measure was introduced."

CONCLUSION OF A REMARKABLE SPEECH BY SIR W. WYNDHAM. Let us suppose the true interest of the
nation by such means neglected, or misunderstood, her honour tarnished, her importance lost,
her trade insulted, her merchants plundered, and her sailors murdered; and all these circumstances
overlooked, lest his administration should be endangered. Suppose him screened by a corrupt
majority of his creatures, whom he retains in daily pay, or engages in his particular interest,
by distributing among them those posts and places which ought never to be bestowed upon any
but for the good of the public. Let him plume himself upon his scandalous victory, because
he has obtained a parliament like a packed jury ready to acquit him at all adventures. Let
us suppose him domineering with insolence over all the men of ancient families, over all the
men of sense, figure, or fortune in the nation; as he has no virtue of his own, ridiculing
it in others, and endeavouring to destroy and corrupt it in all. With such a minister, and
such a parliament, let us suppose a case which I hope will never happen: a prince upon the
throne, uninformed, ignorant, and unacquainted with the inclinations and true interest of his
people, weak, capricious, transported with unbounded ambition, and possessed with insatiable
warice. Notwithstanding the most warm, the most nervous, the most pathetic remonstrances in
favour of the motion, the question was put, and it was suppressed by mere dint of number.

{1734}

The triumph of the ministry was still more complete in the success of a message delivered from
the crown in the latter end of the session, when a great many members of the other party had
retired to their respective habitations in the country. Sir Robert Wal-pole delivered this
commission to the house, importing that his majesty might be enabled to augment his forces,
if occasion should require such an augmentation, between the dissolution of this parliament
and the election of another. Such an important point, that was said to strike at the foundation
of our liberties, was not tamely yielded; but, on the contrary, contested with uncommon ardour.
The motion for taking the message into consideration was carried in the affirmative; and an
address presented to the king, signifying their compliance with his desire. In consequence
of a subsequent message, they prepared and passed a bill, enabling his majesty to settle an
annuity of five thousand pounds for life on the princess royal, as a mark of his paternal favour
and affection.

PARLIAMENT DISSOLVED.

The opposition in the house of peers kept pace with that in the house of commons, and was supported
with equal abilities, under the auspices of the lords Bathurst and Carteret, the earls of Chesterfield
and Abingdon. The duke of Marlborough made a motion for a bill to regulate the army, equivalent
to that which had been rejected in the lower house; and it met with the same fate after a warm
dispute. Then lord Carteret moved for an address to the king, that he would be graciously pleased
to acquaint the house who advised his majesty to remove the duke of Bolton and lord viscount
Cobham from their respective regiments, and what crimes were laid to their charge. This proposal
was likewise rejected, at the end of a debate in which the duke of Argyle observed, that two
lords had been removed, but only one soldier lost his commission. Such a great majority of
the Scottish representatives had always voted for the ministry since the accession of the late
king, and so many of these enjoyed places and preferments in the gift of the crown, that several
attempts were made by the lords in the opposition to prevent for the future the ministerial
influence from extending itself to the elections of North Britain. Accordingly, two motions
for this purpose were made by the carl of Marchmont and the duke of Bedford; and sustained
by the earls of Chesterfield, Winchelsea, and Stair, lords Willoughby de Broke, Bathurst, and
Carteret. They were opposed by the dukes of Newcastle and Argyle, the earl of Cholmondeley,
earl Paulet, lord Hervey, now called up by a writ to the house of peers, and lord Talbot. The
question being put on both, they were of course defeated; and the earl of Stair was deprived
of his regiment of dragoons, after having performed the most signal services to the royal family,
and exhausted his fortune in supporting the interest and dignity of the crown. The business
of the session being despatched, the king repaired to the house of lords on the sixteenth day
of April, and having passed all the bills that were ready for the royal assent, took leave
of this parliament, with the warmest acknowledgment of their zeal, duty, and affection. It
was at first prorogued, then dissolved, and another convoked by the same proclamation. On the
fourteenth day of March, the nuptials of the prince of Orange and the princess royal were solemnized
with great magnificence; and this match was attended with addresses of congratulation to his
majesty from different parts of the kingdom.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

DANTZIC BESIEGED BY THE RUSSIANS.

The powers at war upon the continent acted with surprising vigour. The Russian and Saxon army
invested the city of Dantzic, in hopes of securing the person of king Stanislaus. The town
was strong, the garrison numerous, and animated by the examples of the French and Poles, made
a very obstinate defence. For some time they were supplied by sea with recruits, arms, and
ammunition. On the eleventh day of May a reinforcement of fifteen hundred men was landed from
two French ships of war and some transports, under fort Wechselmunde, which was so much in
want of provisions, that they were not admitted; they therefore re-embarked, and sailed back
to Copenhagen. But afterwards a larger number was landed in the same place, and attacked the
Russian intrenchments, in order to force their way into the city. They were repulsed in this
attempt, but retired in good order. At length the Russian fleet arrived, under the command
of Admiral Gordon, and now the siege was carried on with great fury. Fort Wechselmunde was
surrendered; the French troops capitulated, and were embarked in the Russian ships, to be conveyed
to some port in the Baltic. Stanislaus escaped in the disguise of a peasant to Marienwarder
in the Prussian territories. The city of Dantzic submitted to the dominion of Augustus III.,
king of Poland, and was obliged to defray the expense of the war to the Russian general count
de Munich, who had assumed the command after the siege was begun. The Polish lords at Dantzic
signed an act of submission to king Augustus, who, on the tenth day of July, arrived at the
convent of Oliva. There a council was held in his presence. The recusant noblemen took the
oath which he proposed. Then a general amnesty was proclaimed; and the king set out on his
return to Dresden.

PHILIPSBURGH TAKEN BY THE FRENCH.

On the Rhine the French arms bore down all resistance. The count de Belleisle besieged and
took Traerbach. The duke of Berwick, at the head of sixty thousand men, invested Philipsburgh,
while prince Eugene was obliged to remain on the defensive, in the strong camp at Heilbron,
waiting for the troops of the empire. On the twelfth day of June, the duke of Berwick, in visiting
the trenches, was killed by a cannon-ball, and the command devolved upon the marquis d'Asfeldt
who carried on the operations of the siege with equal vigour and capacity. Prince Eugene being
joined by the different reinforcements he expected, marched towards the French lines; but found
them so strong that he would not hazard an attack; and such precautions taken, that with all
his military talents he could not relieve the besieged. At length general Watgenau, the governor,
capitulated, after having made a noble defence, and obtained the most honourable conditions.
Prince Eugene retired to Heidelberg; and the campaign ended about the beginning of October.
The Imperial arms were not more successful in Italy. The infant Don Carlos had received so
many invitations from the Neapolitan nobility, that he resolved to take possession of that
kingdom. He began his march in February, at the head of the Spanish forces; published a manifesto,
declaring he was sent by his father to relieve the kingdom of Naples from the oppression under
which it groaned; and entered the capital amidst the acclamations of the people; while the
count de Visconti, the German viceroy, finding himself unable to cope with the invaders, thought
proper to retire, after having thrown succours into Gaeta and Capua. When he arrived at Nocera,
he began to assemble the militia, with intent to form a camp at Barletta. The count de Montemar
marched with a body of forces against this general, and obtained over him a complete victory
at Bitonto in Apuglia, on the twenty-fifth of May, when the Imperialists were entirely routed,
and a great number of principal officers taken prisoners. Don Carlos being proclaimed, and
acknowledged king of Naples, created the count de Montemar duke of Bitonto; reduced Gaeta,
and all other parts of the kingdom which were garrisoned with Imperial troops; and resolved
to subdue the island of Sicily. About twenty thousand troops being destined for this expedition,
were landed in the road of Solanto in August, under the command of the new duke of Bitonto,
who being favoured by the natives, proceeded in his conquests with great rapidity. The people
acknowledged Don Carlos as their sovereign, and took arms in support of his government; so
that the Imperial troops were driven before them, and the Spaniards possessed the whole kingdom,
except Messina, Syracuse, and Trepani, when the infant determined to visit the island in person.

BATTLE OF PARMA.

While Don Carlos was thus employed in the conquest of Naples and Sicily, the Imperialists were
hard pressed in Lombardy by the united forces of France and Piedmont, commanded by the king
of Sardinia and the old mareschal duke de Villars. In the month of January they undertook the
siege of Tortona, which they reduced; while the troops of the emperor began to pour in great
numbers into the Mantuan. In the beginning of May, count Merci, who commanded them, passed
the Po in the face of the allies, notwithstanding all the skill of Villars, obliged him to
retreat from the banks of that river, and took the castle of Colorno. The old French general
being taken ill, quitted the army, and retired to Turin, where in a little time he died; and
the king of Sardinia retiring to the same place, the command of the allied forces devolved
upon the mareschal de Coigny. The confederates were posted at Sanguina, and the Imperialists
at Sorbola, when the count de Merci made a motion to San Prospero, as if he intended either
to attack the enemy, or take possession of Parma. The mareschal de Coigny forthwith made a
disposition for an engagement; and, on the twenty-ninth day of June, the Imperial general having
passed the Parma, began the attack with great impetuosity. He charged in person at the head
of his troops, and was killed soon after the battle began. Nevertheless, the prince of Wirtem-berg
assuming the command, both armies fought with great obstinacy from eleven in the forenoon till
four in the afternoon, when the Imperialists retired towards Monte Cirugalo, leaving five thousand
men dead on the field of battle, and among these many officers of distinction. The loss of
the allies was very considerable, and they reaped no solid fruits from their victory.

THE IMPERIALISTS ARE AGAIN WORSTED.

The Imperial forces retreated to Reggio, and from thence moved to the plains of Carpi, on the
right of the Secchia, where they received some reinforcements; then general count Konigsegg
arriving in the camp, took upon himself the command of the army. His first step was to take
post at Quingentolo, by which motion he secured Mirandola, that was threatened with a siege.
On the fifteenth of February he forded the river Secchia, and surprised the quarters of mareschal
de Broglio, who escaped in his shirt with great difficulty. The French retired with such precipitation,
that they left all their baggage behind, and above two thousand were taken prisoners. They
posted themselves under Gustalla, where, on the nineteenth day of the month, they were vigorously
attacked by the Imperialists, and a general engagement ensued. Konigsegg made several desperate
efforts to break the French cavalry, upon which, however, he could make no impression. The
infantry on both sides fought with uncommon ardour for six hours, and the field was covered
with carnage. At length the Imperial general retreated to Lazara, after having lost above five
thousand men, including the prince of Wirtemberg, the generals Valpareze and Colminero, with
many other officers of distinction; nor was the damage sustained by the French greatly inferior
to that of the Germans, who repassed the Po, and took post on the banks of the Oglio. The allies
crossed the same river, and the marquis de Maillibois was sent with a detachment to attack
Mirandola; but the Imperialists marching to the relief of the place, compelled him to abandon
the enterprise; then he rejoined his army, which retired under the walls of Cremona, to wait
for succours from Don Carlos. So little respect did the French court pay to the British nation
at this juncture, that in the month of November, an edict was published at Paris, commanding
all the British subjects in France, who were not actually in employment, from the age of eighteen
to fifty, to quit the kingdom in fifteen days, or enlist in some of the Irish regiments, on
pain of being treated as vagabonds, and sent to the galleys. This edict was executed with the
utmost rigour. The prisons of Paris were crowded with the subjects of Great Britain, who were
surprised and cut off from all communication with their friends, and must have perished by
cold and hunger, had not they been relieved by the active charity of the Jansenists. The earl
of Waldegrave, who then resided at Paris, as ambassador from the king of Great Britain, made
such vigorous remonstrances to the French ministry upon this unheard of outrage against a nation
with which they had been so long in alliance, that they thought proper to set the prisoners
at liberty, and publish another edict, by which the meaning of the former was explained away.

NEW PARLIAMENT IN GREAT BRITAIN.

While these transactions occurred on the continent, the king of Great Britain augmented his
land-forces; and warm contests were maintained through the whole united kingdom in electing
representatives for the new parliament. But in all these struggles the ministerial power predominated;
and the new members appeared with the old complexion. The two houses assembled on the fourteenth
day of January, and Mr. Onslow was re-elected speaker. The leaders of both parties in all debates,
were the self-same persons who had conducted those of the former parliament; and the same measure
were pursued in the same manner. He told them he had used the power vested in him by the last
parliament with great moderation; and concluded a treaty with the crown of Denmark of great
importance in the present conjuncture. He observed, that whilst many of the principal powers
of Europe were actually engaged in a war, Great Britain must be more or less affected with
the consequences; and as the best concerted measures are liable to uncertainty, the nation
ought to be prepared against all events. He therefore expressed his hope, that his good subjects
would not repine at the necessary means of procuring the blessings of peace and universal tranquillity,
or of putting him in a condition to act that part which it might be necessary and incumbent
upon him to take. The address of thanks produced a dispute as usual, which ended with an acquiescence
in the motion The house, in a grand committee on the supply, resolved, That thirty thousand
seamen should be employed for the service of the ensuing year; and that the land-forces should
be augmented to the number of twenty-five thousand seven hundred and forty-four effective men.
But these resolutions were not taken without dispute and division. The minister's opponents
not only reproduced all the reasons which had been formerly advanced against a standing army,
but they opposed this augmentation with extraordinary ardour, as a huge stride towards the
establishment of arbitrary power. They refuted those fears of eternal broils on which the ministry
pretended to ground the necessity of such an augmentation; and they exposed the weak conduct
of the administration, in having contributed to destroy the balance of power, by assisting
Spain against the emperor in Italy, so as to aggrandize the house of Bourbon.

DEBATE ON A SUBSIDY TO DENMARK.

Sir William Wyndham moved, that the estimate of the navy for the ensuing year might be referred
to a select committee. He expressed his surprise, that notwithstanding the vast sums which
had been yearly raised, and the long continuance of the peace, the people had not been quite
delivered of any one tax incurred in the preceding war. He said, he could not comprehend how
it was possible to find pretences for exposing the nation to such exorbitant charges; and he
took notice of some unconsionable articles in the accounts of the navy-debt that lay upon the
table. He was seconded by Mr. Sandys, and supported by sir J. Jekyll and Mr. Pulteney; but
after some debate, the motion was carried in the negative. When the new treaty with Denmark
fell under consideration in a grand committee, Mr. H. Walpole moved, that the sum of fifty-six
thousand two hundred and fifty pounds, should be granted to his majesty as a subsidy to the
Dane, pursuant to the said treaty, for the service of the ensuing year. The demand did not
meet with immediate compliance. All the leaders in the opposition exclaimed against the subsidy
as unnecessary and unreasonable. They observed, that as the English had no particular interest
of their own for inducing them to engage in the present war, but only the danger to which the
balance of power might be exposed by that event; and as all the powers of Europe were as much,
if not more, interested than the English in the preservation of that balance, should it ever
be really endangered, they would certainly engage in its defence, without receiving any valuable
consideration from Great Britain; but should the English be always the first to take the alarm
upon any rupture, and offer bribes and pensions to all the princes in Europe, the whole charge
of preserving that balance would fall upon Great Britain; every state would expect a gratification
from her, for doing that which it would otherwise be obliged to do for its own preservation;
even the Dutch might at last refuse to assist in trimming this balance, unless Britain should
submit to make the grand pensionary of Holland a pensionary of England, and take a number of
their forces into English pay. The debate having had its free course, the question was put,
and the motion approved by the majority. The ministry allowed a bill to be brought in for limiting
the number of officers in the house of commons; but at the second reading it was rejected upon
a division, after a learned debate, in which it appeared that the opposition had gained a valuable
auxiliary in the person of lord Pol-worth, son to the earl of Marchmont, a nobleman of elegant
parts, keen penetration, and uncommon vivacity, who spoke with all the fluency and fervour
of elocution.

PETITION OF SOME SCOTTISH NOBLEMEN.

The minority in the house of lords were not less vigilant and resolute in detecting and opposing
every measure which they thought would redound to the prejudice of their country. But the most
remarkable object that employed their attention during this session, was a very extraordinary
petition subscribed by the dukes of Hamilton, Queensberry, and Montrose, the earls of Dundonald,
Marchmont, and Stair, representing that undue influence had been used for carrying on the election
of the sixteen peers of Scotland. The duke of Bedford, who delivered their petition to the
house, proposed a day for taking it into consideration; and to this they agreed. It was afterwards
moved, that the consideration of it should be adjourned to a short day, before which the petitioners
should be ordered to declare whether they intended to controvert the last election of all the
sixteen peers, or the election of any, and which of them. This affair was of such an unprecedented
nature, that the house seemed to be divided in opinion about the manner in which they ought
to proceed. The partisans of the ministry would have willingly stifled the inquiry in the beginning;
but the petitioners were so strenuously supported in their claim to some notice, by the earls
of Chesterfield, Abingdon, and Strafford, the lords Bathurst and Carteret, that they could
not dismiss it at once with any regard to decorum. The order of the house, according to the
motion explained above, being communicated by the lord-chancellor to the petitioners, they
waited on him with a declaration, importing, that they did not intend to controvert the election
or return of the sixteen peers for Scotland; but they thought it their duty to lay before their
lordships the evidence of such facts and undue methods as appeared to them to be dangerous
to the constitution; and might in future elections equally affect the right of the present
sixteen peers, as that of the other peers of Scotland, if not prevented by a proper remedy.
This declaration being repeated to the house, the duke of Devonshire made a motion, that the
petitioners might be ordered to lay before the house in writing, instances of those undue methods
and illegal practices upon which they intended to proceed, and the names of the persons they
suspected to be guilty. He was warmly opposed by the country party; and a long debate ensued,
after which the question was carried in favour of the motion, and the order signified to the
petitioners. Next day their answer was read to the house to this effect: That as they had no
intention to state themselves accusers, they could not take upon them to name particular persons
who might have been concerned in those illegal practices; but who they were would undoubtedly
appear to their lordships upon their taking the proper examinations: nevertheless, they did
humbly acquaint their lordships, that the petition was laid before them upon information that
the list of the sixteen peers for Scotland had been framed previous to the election, by persons
in high trust under the crown; that this list was shown to peers, as a list approved by the
crown; and was called the king's list, from which there was to be no variation, unless to make
way for one or two particular peers, on condition they should conform to measures; that peers
were solicited to vote for this list, without the liberty of making any alteration; that endeavours
were used to engage peers to vote for this list by promise of pensions, and offices civil and
military to themselves and relations, as well as by offers of money: that sums were given for
this purpose; that pensions, offices, and releases of debts owing to the crown, were actually
granted to peers who concurred in voting for this list, and to their relations; that on the
day of election a battalion of his majesty's troops were drawn up in the Abbey-court of Edinburgh,
contrary to custom, and without any apparent cause but that of over-awing the electors. This
answer gave rise to another violent dispute; but the majority voted it unsatisfactory, and
the petition was rejected, though the resolution was clogged with a vigorous protest.

{1735}

Notwithstanding this discouragement, the earl of Abingdon moved, that although the petition
was dismissed, an inquiry might be set on foot touching an affair of such consequence to the
liberties of the kingdom. The earl of Hay declaring his belief that no such illegal methods
had been practised, the other produced a pamphlet, intituled, The Protests of a great Number
of Noble Lords, entered by them at the last Election of Peers for Scotland. Exceptions being
taken to a pamphlet, as an object unworthy of their notice, lord Bathurst exhibited an authentic
copy of those protests, extracted from the journal of that election, signed by the two principal
clerks, and witnessed by two gentlemen then attending in the lobby. These were accordingly
read, and plainly demonstrated the truth of the allegations contained in the petition. Nothing
could be more scandalous, arrogant, and shamefully flagrant, than the conduct and deportment
of those who acted the part of understrappers to the ministry on this occasion. But all this
demonstration, adorned and enforced by the charms and energy of eloquence, was like preaching
in a desert. A motion was made for adjourning, and carried in the affirmative: a protest was
entered, and the whole affair consigned to oblivion. Divers other motions were made successively
by the lords in the opposition, and rejected by the invincible power of a majority. The uninterrupted
success of the ministry did not, however, prevent them from renewing the struggle as often
as an opportunity offered. They disputed the continuation of the salt-tax, and the bill for
enabling the king to apply the sum of one million out of the sinking fund for the service of
the current year, though success did not attend their endeavours. They supported with all their
might a bill sent up from the commons, explaining and amending an act of the Scottish parliament,
for preventing wrongous imprisonment, and against undue delays in trials. This was all the
natives of Scotland had in lieu of the habeas-corpus act; though it did not screen them from
oppression. Yet the earl of Hay undertook to prove they were on a footing with their neighbours
of England in this respect; and the bill was thrown out on a division. The session was closed
on the fifteenth of May, when the king in his speech to both houses declared that the plan
of pacification, concerted between him and the states-general, had not produced the desired
effect. He thanked the commons for the supplies they had granted with such cheerfulness and
despatch. He signified his intention to visit his German dominions; and told them he should
constitute the queen regent of the realm in his absence. Immediately after the prorogation
his majesty embarked for Holland, in his way to Hanover.

MISUNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE COURTS OF SPAIN AND PORTUGAL.

By this time the good understanding between the courts of Madrid and Lisbon was destroyed by
a remarkable incident. The Portuguese ambassador at Madrid having allowed his servants to rescue
a criminal from the officers of justice, all the servants concerned in that rescue were dragged
from his house to prison, by the Spanish king's order, with circumstances of rigour and disgrace.
His Portuguese majesty being informed of this outrage, ordered reprisals to be made upon the
servants of the Spanish ambassador in Lisbon. The two ministers withdrew abruptly to their
respective courts. The two monarchs expressed their mutual resentment. The king of Spain assembled
a body of troops on the frontiers of Portugal; and his Portuguese majesty had recourse to the
assistance of king George. Don Marcos Antonio d'Alzeveda was despatched to London with the
character of envoy-extraordinary; and succeeded in his commission according to his wish. In
a little time after the king's departure from England, sir John Norris sailed from Spithead
with a powerful squadron, in order to protect the Portuguese against the Spaniards; and on
the ninth day of June arrived at Lisbon, where he was welcomed as a deliverer. Mr. Keene, the
British envoy at the court of Spain, had communicated to his catholic majesty the resolution
of his master to send a powerful squadron to Lisbon, with orders to guard that coast from insults,
and secure the Brazil fleet, in which the merchants of Great Britain were deeply interested.
Don Joseph Patinho, minister of his catholic majesty, delivered a memorial to Mr. Keene, representing
that such an expedition would affect the commerce of Spain, by intimidating foreign merchants
from embarking their merchandise in the flota. But, in all probability, it prevented a rupture
between the two crowns, and disposed the king of Spain to listen to terms of accommodation.

PRELIMINARIES SIGNED BY THE EMPEROR AND THE KING OF FRANCE.

The powers in alliance against the house of Austria having rejected the plan of pacification
concerted by the king of Great Britain and the states-general, Mr. Wal-pole, ambassador at
the Hague, presented a memorial to their high mightinesses, desiring they would, without loss
of time, put themselves in a posture of defence by an augmentation of their forces by sea and
land; that they might take such vigorous steps in concert with Great Britain, as the future
conjuncture of affairs might require. But before they would subject themselves to such expense,
they resolved to make further trial of their influence with the powers in alliance against
the emperor; and conferences were renewed with the ministers of those allies. The affairs of
Poland became more and more unfavourable to the interest of Stanislaus; for though a great
number of the Polish nobility engaged in a confederacy to support his claim, and made repeated
efforts in his behalf, the palatine of Kiow submitted to Augustus; and even his brother the
primate, after having sustained a long imprisonment, and many extraordinary hardships, was
obliged to acknowledge that prince his sovereign. In Italy, the arms of the allies still continued
to prosper. Don Carlos landed in Sicily, and reduced the whole island almost without opposition;
while the Imperialists were forced to abandon all the territories they possessed in Italy,
except the Mantuan. The emperor being equally unable to cope with the French armies on the
Rhine, implored succours of the czarina, who sent thirty thousand men to his assistance. This
vigorous interposition, and the success of Augustus in Poland, disposed the court of Versailles
to a pacification. A secret negotiation was begun between France and the house of Austria;
and the preliminaries were signed without the concurrence or knowledge of Spain, Sardinia,
and the maritime powers. In these articles it was stipulated that France should restore all
the conquests she had made in Germany; that the reversion of the dukedom of Tuscany should
be vested in the duke of Lorraine; that Lorraine should be allotted to king Stanislaus, and
after his death be united to the crown of France; that the emperor should possess the Milanese,
the Mantuan, and Parma; that the king of Sardinia should enjoy Vigevano and Novara; that Don
Carlos should be acknowledged king of Naples and Sicily, and retain the island of Elba, with
all the Spanish territories on the coast of Tuscany; and that France should guarantee the pragmatic
sanction.

PROCEEDINGS IN PARLIAMENT.

The king of Great Britain returned from Hanover to England in the month of November; and on
the fifteenth day of January opened the session of parliament. On this occasion he congratulated
them on the near prospect of a general peace in Europe in consequence of the preliminary articles
which the emperor and the king of France had agreed; and of which he had expressed his approbation,
as they did not differ in any essential point from the plan of pacification which he and the
states-general had offered to the belligerent powers. He told them that he had already ordered
a considerable reduction to be made in his forces both by sea and land; but at the same time
observed it would be necessary to continue some extraordinary expense, until a more perfect
reconciliation should be established among the several powers of Europe. An address of thanks
was unanimously voted, presented, and graciously received. After the house had received several
petitions from different counties and gentlemen, complaining of undue influence in elections
for members of parliament, it proceeded to consider of the supply, and sir Charles Wager moving
that fifteen thousand seaman should be employed for the service of the ensuing year, the proposal
was approved without opposition. But this was not the case with a motion made by Mr. Pulteney,
"That the ordinary estimates of the navy should be referred to a select committee." The ministry
discouraged all such prying measures: a debate was produced, the house divided, and the motion
was rejected. Such was the fate of s motion for raising the supplies within the year, made
by Mr. Sandys, and supported by sir John Barnard, Mr. Willimot, and other patriots, who demonstrated
that this was a speedy and practicable expedient for discharging the national debt, lowering
the interest of money, reducing the price of labour, and encouraging a spirit of commerce.

BILL FOR THE RELIEF OF QUAKERS IN THE ARTICLE OF TITHES.

The bill for limiting the number of officers in the house of commons was again revived. The
king was empowered to borrow six hundred thousand pounds, chargeable on the sinking fund, for
the service of the ensuing year, though this power was not easily granted; and the house resolved
to lay a duty of twenty shillings per gallon on all spirituous liquors, after it had appeared
to the committee appointed for that purpose, that those spirits were pernicious to the health
and morals of the people. To this resolution was added another, which amounted to a total prohibition,
namely, that fifty pounds should be yearly paid to his majesty for a license to be annually
taken out by every person who should vend, barter, or utter any such spirituous liquors. Mr.
Walter Plummer, in a well concerted speech, moved for the repeal of some clauses in the Test
act: these he represented as a species of persecution, in which protestant dissenters were
confounded with the Roman catholics and enemies to the establishment. He was sustained by lord
Polworth and Mr. Heathcote; but sir Robert Walpole was joined by Mr. Shippen against the motion,
as dangerous to the established church; and the question being put, it was carried in the negative.

{1736}

When sir Joseph Jekyll presented to the house, according to order, a bill founded on the resolutions
they had taken against spirituous liquors, sir Robert Walpole acquainted them, by his majesty's
command, that as the alterations proposed to be made by that bill in the duties charged upon
all spirituous liquors might, in a great degree, affect some part of the civil list revenues,
his majesty, for the sake of remedying so great an evil as was intended by that bill to be
prevented, did consent to accept any other revenue of equal value, to be settled and appropriated
in lieu of his interest in the said duties. The bill was read a second time, and consigned
to a committee of the whole house; but that for limiting the number of officers in the house
of commons was thrown out at the second reading. Petitions against the bill touching the retail
of spirituous liquors, were presented by the traders to the British sugar colonies, by the
merchants of Bristol and Liverpool, representing the hardships to which they would be exposed
by a law which amounted to a prohibition of rum and spirits distilled from molasses. In consequence
of these remonstrances, a mitigating clause was inserted, in favour of the composition known
by the name of punch, and distillers were permitted to exercise any other employment. The sum
of seventy thousand pounds was voted for making good the deficiencies that might happen in
the civil list by this bill, which at length passed through the house, though not without reiterated
disputes and warm altercation. Violent opposition was likewise made to a bill for the relief
the people called quakers, who offered a petition, representing, that though from motives of
conscience they refused the payment of tithes, church-rates, oblations, and ecclesiastical
dues, they were exposed to grievous sufferings by prosecution in the exchequer, ecclesiastical,
and other courts, to the imprisonment of their persons, and the ruin of them and their families.
A bill being prepared for their relief, was read and printed; then petitions were preferred
against it by the clergy of Middlesex, and of many other parts of the kingdom. Counsel was
heard in behalf of those petitioners, and several alterations proposed in the bill, which after
long and repeated debates surmounted all opposition, and was sent up to the lords.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

MORTMAIN ACT.

In the month of February the king had sent two members of the privy-council to the prince of
Wales, with a message, proposing a marriage between his royal highness and the princess of
Saxe-gotha. The proposal being agreeable to the prince, the marriage was celebrated on the
twenty-seventh day of April. Upon this occasion Mr. Pulteney moved for an address of congratulation
to his majesty, and was supported by Mr. George Lyttleton and Mr. William Pitt, who seized
this opportunity of pronouncing elegant panegyrics on the prince of Wales and' his amiable
consort. These two young members soon distinguished themselves in the house by their eloquence
and superior talents. The attention of the house was afterwards converted to a bill for the
preventing of smuggling; and another for explaining the act for the more effectual preventing
bribery and corruption in the election of members to serve in parliament. Both made their way
through the lower house, and were sent up to the lords for their concurrence. The number of
land forces voted for the service of the current year was reduced to seventeen thousand seven
hundred and four effective men. The supplies were raised by the malt-tax and land-tax at two
shillings in the pound, additional duties on mum, cider, and perry, stamped vellum, parchment,
and paper; and by an act empowering his majesty to borrow six hundred thousand pounds of the
sinking fund. In this session the parliament repealed the old statutes of England and Scotland
against conjuration, witchcraft, and dealing with evil spirit's. The commons likewise prepared
a bill to restrain the disposition of lands in mortmain, whereby they became unalienable. Against
this measure petitions were presented by the two universities, the colleges of Eton, Winchester,
and Westminster, and divers hospitals that subsisted by charitable donations. In favour of
the universities and colleges a particular exempting clause was inserted. Several other amendments
were made in the bill, which passed through both houses, and obtained the royal assent. Among
the acts passed in this session, was one for naturalizing her royal highness the princess of
Wales; and another for building a bridge across the Thames from New Palace-yard, in the city
of Westminster, to the opposite shore in the county of Surrey. The points chiefly debated in
the house of lords were the address of thanks for his majesty's speech, the mortmain bill,
the Quakers' bill, which was thrown out, and that for the prevention of smuggling, which did
not pass without division and protest. On the twentieth day of May the king closed the session
with a speech, in which he told both houses that a farther convention, touching the execution
of the preliminaries, had been made and communicated to him by the emperor and most christian
king, and that negotiations were carrying on by the several powers engaged in the late war,
in order to settle a general pacification. He expressed great concern at seeing such seeds
of dissatisfaction sown among his people; he protested it was his desire, and should be his
care, to preserve the present constitution in church and state, as by law established; he recommended
harmony and mutual affection among all protestants of the nation, as the great security of
that happy establishment; and signified his intention to visit his German dominions. Accordingly,
the parliament was no sooner prorogued than he set out for Hanover, after having appointed
the queen regent in his absence.

REMARKABLE RIOT AT EDINBURGH.

Such a degree of licentiousness prevailed over the whole nation, that the kingdom was filled
with tumult and riots, which might have been prevented by proper regulations of the civil government
in a due execution of the laws. The most remarkable of these disturbances happened at Edinburgh,
on the seventh day of September. John Porteous, who commanded the guard paid by that city,
a man of brutal disposition and abandoned morals, had, at the execution of a smuggler, been
provoked by some insults from the populace to order his men, without using the previous formalities
of the law, to fire with shot among the crowd; by which precipitate order several innocent
persons lost their lives. Porteous was tried for murder, convicted, and received sentence of
death; but the queen, as guardian of the realm, thought proper to indulge him with a reprieve.
The common people of Edinburgh resented this lenity shown to a criminal, who was the object
of their detestation. They remembered that pardons had been granted to divers military delinquents
in that country, who had been condemned by legal trial. They seemed to think those were encouragements
to oppression; they were fired by a national jealousy; they were stimulated by the relations
and friends of those who had been murdered; and they resolved to wreak their vengeance on the
author of that tragedy, by depriving him of life on the very day which the judges had fixed
for his execution. Thus determined, they assembled in different bodies about ten o'clock at
night. They blocked up the gates of the city, to prevent the admission of the troops that were
quartered in the suburbs. They surprised and disarmed the town guards; they broke open the
prison doors; dragged Porteous from thence to the place of execution; and, leaving him hanging
by the neck on a dyer's pole, quietly dispersed to their several habitations. This exploit
was performed with such conduct and deliberation as seemed to be the result of a plan formed
by some persons of consequence; it, therefore, became the object of a very severe inquiry.

RUPTURE BETWEEN THE CZARINA AND THE OTTOMAN PORTE.

During this summer a rupture happened between the Turks and the Russians, which last reduced
the city of Azoph on the Black Sea, and overrun the greatest part of Crim Tartary. The czarina
declared war against the Ottoman Porte, because the Tartars of the Crimea had made incursions
upon her frontiers; and, when she complained of these disorders to the vizier, she received
no satisfaction; besides, a large body of Tartars had, by order of that minister, marched through
the Russian provinces in despite of the empress, and committed terrible havoc in their route.
The emperor was obliged to engage as a party in this war, by a treaty offensive and defensive,
which he had many years before concluded with the czarina. Yet, before he declared himself,
he joined the maritime powers in offering his mediation to the sultan, who was very well disposed
to peace; but the czarina insisted upon her retaining Azoph, which her forces had reduced;
and this preliminary article being rejected, as dishonourable to the Ottoman empire, the court
of Vienna began to make preparations for war. By this time all the belligerent powers in Italy
had agreed to the preliminaries of peace concluded between the emperor and France. The duke
of Lorraine had espoused the emperor's eldest daughter, the archduchess Maria Theresa, and
ceded Lorraine to France, even before he succeeded to Tuscany. Don Carlos was crowned king
of Sicily; Stanislaus abdicated the crown of Poland; and Augustus was universally acknowledged
sovereign of that kingdom. The preliminaries were approved and accepted by the diet of the
empire; the king of Spain sent orders for his troops to evacuate Tuscany; and the provinces
in Italy yielded to the house of Austria. Prince Eugene, who had managed the interest of the
emperor on this occasion, did not live to see the happy fruits of this negotiation. He died
at Vienna, in April, at the age of seventy-three, leaving behind him the character of an invincible
hero and consummate politician. He was not long survived by count Staremberg, another Imperial
general who ranked next to the prince in military reputation. About the same time Great Britain
sustained a national loss in the death of lord chancellor Talbot, who, by his worth, probity,
and acquired accomplishments, had dignified the great office to which he had been raised. He
died universally lamented, in the month of February, at the age of fifty-two, and was succeeded
on the bench by lord Hardwicke.

THE SESSION OF PARLIAMENT OPENED

The king being indisposed, in consequence of having been fatigued by a very tempestuous passage
from Holland, the parliament was prorogued from the twenty-first day of January to the first
of February, and then the session was opened by commission. The lord chancellor, as one of
the peers authorised by this commission, made a speech in his majesty's name to both houses.
With respect to foreign affairs, he told them that the respective acts of cession being exchanged,
and orders given for the evacuation and possession of the several countries and places by the
powers concerned, according to the allotment and disposition of the preliminary articles, the
great work of re-establishing the general tranquillity was far advanced; that, however, common
prudence called upon them to be very attentive to the final conclusion of the new settlement.
He said his majesty could not without surprise and concern observe the many contrivances and
attempts carried on, in various shapes, and in different parts of the nation, tumultuously
to resist and obstruct the execution of the laws, and to violate the peace of the kingdom.
He observed, that the consideration of the height to which those audacious practices might
rise, if not timely suppressed, afforded a melancholy prospect, and required particular attention,
lest they should affect private persons in the quiet enjoyment of their property, as well as
the general peace and good order of the whole. After the commons had agreed to an address,
and heard counsel on some controverted elections, they proceeded to take the supply into consideration.
They voted ten thousand men for the sea-service. They continued for the land-service the same
number they had maintained in times of tranquillity, amounting to seventeen thousand seven
hundred and four; but this measure was not adopted without opposition; the money was raised
by the land and malt-taxes, reinforced with one million granted out of the sinking fund.

MOTION IN BOTH HOUSES FOR A SETTLEMENT ON THE PRINCE OF WALES.

The chief subject of contention that presented itself in the course of this session, was a
motion which Mr. Pulteney made for an address to his majesty, that he would be pleased to settle
one hundred thousand pounds a year upon the prince of Wales. He represented that such provision
was conformable to the practice of ancient times; that what he proposed had been enjoyed by
his present majesty in the life-time of his father; and that a settlement of this nature was
reasonable and necessary to ascertain the independency of the apparent heir to the crown. The
motion was vigorously opposed by sir Robert Walpole, as an encroachment on the prerogative;
as an officious intermeddling in the king's family affairs; and as an effort to set his majesty
and the prince at variance. But a misunderstanding, it seems, had already happened in the royal
family. The minister, in the midst of his harangue, told the house by his majesty's command,
that on the preceding day the king had sent a message to the prince by several noblemen of
the first quality, importing, that his majesty had given orders for settling a jointure upon
the princess of Wales, suitable to her high rank and dignity, which he would in a proper time
lay before parliament, in order to be rendered more certain and effectual; that, although his
royal highness had not thought fit, by any application to his majesty, to desire that his allowance
of fifty thousand pounds might be rendered less precarious, the king, to prevent the bad consequences
which he apprehended might follow from the undutiful measures which his majesty was informed
the prince had been advised to pursue, would grant to his royal highness, for his majesty's
life, the said fifty thousand pounds per annum, to be issued out of the civil list revenues,
over and above the prince's revenues arising from the duchy of Cornwall, which his majesty
thought a very competent allowance, considering his own numerous issue, and the great expense
which did and must necessarily attend an honourable provision for the whole royal family; that
the prince, by a verbal answer, desired their lordships to lay him with all humility at his
majesty's feet; to assure him that he did, and ever should, retain the utmost duty for his
royal person; that he was very thankful for any instance of his majesty's goodness to him or
to the princess, and particularly for his majesty's gracious intention of settling a jointure
upon her royal highness; but that, as to the message, the affair was now out of his hands,
and therefore he could give no answer to it; that his royal highness afterwards used many dutiful
expressions towards his majesty; adding, "Indeed, my lords, it is in other hands, and I am
sorry for it;" or words to that effect. Sir Robert Walpole then endeavoured to demonstrate,
that the annual sum of fifty thousand pounds was as much as the king could afford to allow
for the prince's maintenance; and he expatiated upon the bad consequences that might ensue,
if the son should be rendered altogether independent of the father.

These suggestions did not pass unanswered. Sir Robert Walpole had asserted, that the parliament
had no right to interfere in the creation or maintenance of a prince of Wales; and that in
the case of Richard II., who, upon the death of his father, the Black Prince, was created prince
of Wales, in consequence of an address or petition from parliament, that measure was in all
probability directed by the king himself. In answer to this assertion, it was observed, that
probably the king would not have been so forward in creating his grandson prince of Wales,
if he had not been forced into this step by his parliament; for Edward in his old age fell
into a sort of love dotage, and gave himself entirely up to the management of his mistress,
Alice Pierce, and his second son, the duke of Lancaster; a circumstance that raised a most
reasonable jealousy in the Black Prince, at that time on his death-bed, who could not but be
anxious about the safety and right of his only son, whom he found he was soon to leave a child
in the hands of a doating grandfather and an ambitious aspiring uncle. The supporters of the
motion observed, that the allowance of fifty thousand pounds was not sufficient to defray the
prince's yearly expense, without alloting one shilling for acts of charity and munificence;
and that the several deductions for land taxes and fees reduced it to forty-three thousand
pounds. They affirmed, that his whole income, including the revenues of the duchy of Cornwall,
did not exceed fifty-two thousand pounds a-year, though, by his majesty's own regulation, the
expense of the prince's household amounted to sixty-three thousand. They proved that the produce
of the civil list exceeded nine hundred thousand pounds, a sum above one hundred thousand pounds
a-year more than was enjoyed by his late majesty; and that, in the first year of the late king,
the whole expense of his household and civil government did not much exceed four hundred and
fifty thousand pounds a-year. They observed, that the parliament added one hundred and forty
thousand pounds annually for acts of charity and bounty, together with the article of secret-service
money; and allowed one hundred thousand pounds for the maintenance of the prince of Wales;
that the article of secret-service money had prodigiously increased in the late reign; by an
account which happened to be laid before the parliament, it appeared that vast sums of money
had been given for purposes which nobody understood, and to persons whom nobody knew. In the
beginning of the following session several members proposed that this extraordinary account
should be taken into consideration; but the inquiry was warded off by the other party, who
declared that the parliament could not examine any account which had been presented to a former
session. The debate was fierce and long; and ended in a division, by which the motion was rejected.
A motion of the same nature was made by lord Carteret in the house of peers, and gave rise
to a very keen dispute, maintained by the same arguments, and issuing in the same termination.

SCHEME FOR REDUCING THE INTEREST OF THE NATIONAL DEBT.

The next remarkable contest was occasioned by a motion of sir Robert Walpole, who proposed
the sum of one million should be granted to his majesty, towards redeeming the like sum of
the increased capital of the South-Sea company, commonly called the South-Sea annuities. Several
members argued for the expediency of applying this sum to the payment of the debt due to the
Bank, as part of that incumbrance was saddled with an interest of six per cent., whereas the
interest paid for the other sums that constituted the public debt did not exceed four per cent.
Many plausible arguments were offered on both sides of the question; and at length the motion
was carried in the affirmative. The house having resolved itself into a committee to consider
of the national debt, sir John Barnard made a motion, for enabling his majesty to raise money
either by the sale of annuities, or by borrowing at an interest not exceeding three per cent.,
to be applied towards redeeming the South-Sea annuities; and that such of the said annuitants
as should be inclined to subscribe their respective annuities, should be preferred to all others.
He said, that even those public securities which bore an interest of three per cent, only,
were sold at a premium in 'Change-alley: he was therefore persuaded, that all those who were
willing to give a premium for a three per cent, security, would gladly lend their money to
the government at the same interest, should books of subscription be opened for that purpose,
with an assurance that no part of the principal should be paid off for fourteen years. He expatiated
on the national advantages that would accrue from a reduction of interest. From easy and obvious
calculations he inferred, that in a very little time the interest upon all the South-Sea annuities
would be reduced from four to three per cent., without any danger to public credit, or breach
of public faith; that then the produce of the sinking fund would amount to fourteen hundred
thousand pounds per annum, to be applied only towards redeeming the capital of the several
trading companies; he proved that this measure would bring every one of them so much within
the power of parliament, that they would be glad to accept of three per cent, interest on any
reasonable terms; in which case the sinking-fund would rise to one million six hundred thousand
pounds per annum. Then the parliament might venture to annihilate one half of it, by freeing
the people from the taxes upon coals, candles, soap, leather, and other such impositions as
lay heavy upon the poor labourers and manufacturers; the remaining part of the sinking-fund
might be applied towards the discharge of those annuities and public debts which bore an interest
of three per cent, only, and afterwards towards diminishing the capitals of the several trading
companies till the term of fourteen years should be expired; then the sinking-fund would again
amount to above a million yearly, which would be sufficient for paying them off, and freeing
the nation entirely from all its incumbrances. This salutary scheme was violently opposed by
alderman Heathcote, and other partisans of the ministry; yet all their objections were refuted;
and, in order to defeat the project, they were obliged to have recourse to artifice. Mr. Winnington
moved, that all the public creditors, as well as the South-Sea annuitants, should be comprehended.
Sir John Barnard demonstrated that it might be easy for the government to borrow money at three
per cent, sufficient for paying off such of the proprietors of four-and-twenty millions as
were not willing to accept of that interest; but it would be extremely difficult to borrow
enough to satisfy the proprietors of four-and-forty millions, who might choose to have their
principal rather than such an interest. Nevertheless, resolutions were founded on this and
other alterations of the original scheme; and a bill was immediately prepared. It produced
many other debates, and was at last postponed by dint of ministerial influence. The same venerable
patriot, who projected this scheme, moved that, as soon as the interest of all the national
redeemable debt should be reduced to three per cent., the house would take off some of the
heavy taxes which oppressed the poor and the manufacturers: but this motion was rejected by
the majority.

{1737}

BILL AGAINST THE CITY OF EDINBURGH.

The last disputes of this session were excited by a bill sent down from the lords for punishing
the magistrates and city of Edinburgh, on account of the murder of John Porteous. In the beginning
of the session, lord Carteret recapitulated the several tumults and riots which had lately
happened in different parts of the kingdom. He particularly insisted upon the atrocious murder
of captain Porteous, as a flagrant insult upon the government, and a violation of the public
peace, so much the more dangerous, as it seemed to have been concerted and executed with deliberation
and decency. He suspected that some citizens of Edinburgh had been concerned in the murder;
not only from this circumstance, but likewise because, notwithstanding the reward of two hundred
pounds which had been offered by proclamation for the discovery of any person who acted in
that tragedy, not one individual had as yet been detected. He seemed to think that the magistrates
had encouraged the riot, and that the city had forfeited its charter; and he proposed a minute
inquiry into the particulars of the affair. He was seconded by the duke of Newcastle and the
earl of Hay; though the last nobleman differed in opinion with him in respect to the charter
of the city, which, he said, could not be justly forfeited by the fault of the magistracy.
The lords resolved, That the magistrates and other persons from whom they might obtain the
necessary information concerning this riot, should be ordered to attend; and that an address
should be presented to his majesty, desiring that the different accounts and papers relating
to the murder of captain Porteous, might be submitted to the perusal of the house. These documents
being accordingly examined, and all the witnesses arrived, including three Scottish judges,
a debate arose about the manner in which these last should be interrogated, whether at the
bar, at the table, or on the woolsacks. Some Scottish lords asserted, that they had a right
to be seated next to the judges of England; but after a long debate this claim was rejected,
and the judges of Scotland appeared at the bar in their robes. The duke of Argyle, in arguing
against this bill, said he could not think of a proceeding more harsh or unprecedented than
the present, as he believed there was no instance of the whole weight of parliamentary indignation,
for such he called a proceeding by a bill ex post facto, falling upon any single person, far
less upon any community, for crimes that were within the reach of the inferior courts of justice;
for this reason he observed, that if the lord-provost and citizens of Edinburgh should suffer
in the terms of the present bill, they would suffer by a cruel, unjust, and fantastical proceeding;
a proceeding of which the worst use might be made, if ever the nation should have the misfortune
to fall under a partial self-interested administration. He told them he sat in the parliament
of Scotland when that part of the treaty of Union relating to the privileges of the royal burghs,
was settled on the same footing as religion; that is, they were made unalterable by any subsequent
parliament of Great Britain. Notwithstanding the eloquence and warmth of his remonstrance,
the bill was sent down to the house of commons, where it produced a violent contest. The commons
set on foot a severe scrutiny into the particular circumstances that preceded and attended
the murder of Porteous; from the examination of the witnesses, it appeared that no freeman
or citizen of Edinburgh was concerned in the riot, which was chiefly composed of country people,
excited by the relations of some unhappy persons whom Porteous and his men had slain at the
execution of the smuggler; and these were assisted by 'prentice-boys and the lowest class of
vagabonds that happened to be at Edinburgh; that the lord-provost had taken all the precautions
to prevent mischief that his reflection suggested; that he even exposed his person to the rage
of the multitude, in his endeavour to disperse them; and that, if he had done amiss, he erred
from want of judgment rather than from want of inclination to protect the unhappy Porteous.
It likewise appeared that Mr. Lindsay, member for the city of Edinburgh, had gone in person
to general Moyle, commander of the forces in North Britain, informed him of the riot, implored
his immediate assistance, and promised to conduct his troops into the city; and that his suit
was rejected, because he could not produce a written order from the magistracy, which he neither
could have obtained in such confusion, nor ventured to carry about his person through the midst
of an enraged populace. The Scottish members exerted themselves with uncommon vivacity in defence
of their capital. They were joined by sir John Barnard, lord Cornbury, Mr. Shippen, and Mr.
Oglethorpe. Lord Polworth declared, that if any gentleman would show where one argument in
the charge against the lord-provost and the city of Edinburgh had been proved, he would that
instant give his vote for the commitment of the bill. He said, if gentlemen would lay their
hands upon their hearts, and ask themselves, whether they would have voted in this manner had
the case of Edinburgh been that of the cities of Bristol, York, or Norwich, he was persuaded
they would have required that every tittle of the charge against them should have been fully
and undeniably proved. Some amendments and mitigations being inserted in the bill, it passed
the house, was sent back to the lords, who agreed to the alterations, and then received the
royal assent.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

PLAY-HOUSE BILL.

The next effort of the minister was obliquely levelled at the liberty of the press, which it
was much for his interest to abridge. The errors of his conduct, the mystery of that corruption
which he had so successfully reduced to a system, and all the blemishes of his administration,
had been exposed and ridiculed, not only in political periodical writings produced by the most
eminent hands, but likewise in a succession of theatrical pieces, which met with uncommon success
among the people. He either wanted judgment to distinguish men of genius, or could find none
that would engage in his service; he therefore employed a set of wretched authors, void of
understanding and ingenuity. They undertook the defence of his ministry, and answered the animadversions
of his antagonists. The match was so extremely unequal, that, instead of justifying his conduct,
they exposed it to additional ridicule and contempt; and he saw himself in danger of being
despised by the whole nation. He resolved to seize the first opportunity to choke those canals
through which the torrent of censure had flowed upon his character. The manager of a play-house
communicated to him a manuscript farce, intituled, The Golden Rump, which was fraught with
treason and abuse upon the government, and had been presented to the stage for exhibition.
This performance was produced in the house of commons. The minister descanted upon the insolence,
the malice, the immorality, and the seditious calumny which had been of late propagated in
theatrical pieces. A bill was brought in to limit the number of playhouses; to subject all
dramatic writings to the inspection of the lord chamberlain; and to compel them to take out
a license for every production before it could appear on the stage. Notwithstanding a vigorous
opposition, this bill passed through both houses with extraordinary despatch, and obtained
the royal sanction. "Our stage," said he, "ought certainly to be kept in due bounds; but for
this purpose, our laws as they stand at present are sufficient. If our stage-players at any
time exceed those bounds, they ought to be prosecuted; they may be punished. We have precedents,
we have examples of persons punished for things less criminal than some pieces which have been
lately represented; a new law must, therefore unnecessary; and in the present case it cannot
be unnecessary without being dangerous. Every unnecessary restraint is a fetter upon the legs,
is a shackle upon the hands, of liberty. One of the greatest blessings we enjoy, one of the
greatest blessings a people can enjoy, is liberty. But every good in this life has its allay
of evil. Licentiousness is the allay of liberty. It is an ebullition, an excrescence; it is
a speck upon the eye of the political body, which I can never touch but with a gentle, with
a trembling hand; lest I destroy the body, lest I injure the eye, upon which it is apt to appear.
If the stage becomes at any time licentious, if a play appears to be a libel upon the government,
or upon any particular man, the king's courts are open; the law is sufficient to punish the
offender. If poets and players are to be restrained, let them be restrained as other subjects
are, by the known laws of their country; if they offend, let them be tried as every Englishman
ought to be, by God and their country. Do not let us subject them to the arbitrary will and
pleasure of any one man. A power lodged in the hands of a single man to judge and determine
without limitation, control, or appeal, is a sort of power unknown to our laws, inconsistent
with our constitution. It is a higher, a more absolute power than we trust even to the king
himself; and, therefore, I must think we ought not to vest any such power in his majesty's
lord-chamberlain." His arguments had no effect, though the house admired his elocution; and
the play-house bill passed into a law. On the twenty-first day of June the king made a short
speech to both houses, and the lord chancellor prorogued the parliament.

CHAPTER III.

     The Russians take Oczakow..... Death of Gaston de Medeis,
     Duke of Tuscany..... Death of Caroline, Queen Consort of
     England..... Dispute in Parliament about the Standing
     Army..... Spanish Depredations..... Motives of the Minister
     for avoiding a War..... Address to the King on the Subject
     of the Depredations..... Bill for  Securing the Trade, of
     his Majesty's Subjects in America..... Debates in the House
     of Lords..... Birth of Prince George..... Admiral Haddock
     sails with a Squadron to the Mediterranean..... Progress of
     the War against the Turks..... Dispute and Rupture between
     Hanover and Denmark..... Sir Robert Walpole extols the
     Convention in the House of Commons---Motion for an Address,
     that the Representations, Letters, &c, relating to the
     Spanish Depredations, should be laid before the House.....
     Petitions against the Convention..... Substance of that
     Agreement..... Debate in the House of Commons on the
     Convention..... Secession of the chief Members in the
     Opposition..... Debate in the House of Lords upon an Address
     to his Majesty touching the Convention..... Message from the
     Throne touching a Subsidy to Denmark, and a Power to augment
     the Forces of the Kingdom..... Parliament prorogued..... The
     King of Spain publishes a Manifesto..... The Emperor and
     Czarina conclude a Peace with the Turks..... Preparations
     for War in England..... Apology in the House of Commons for
     the seceding Members..... Pension Bill revived, and
     lost..... Porto Bello taken by Admiral Vernon..... Hard
     Frost..... Marriage of the Princess Mary to the Prince of
     Hesse..... Strong Armament sent to the West Indies.....
     Death of the Emperor and Czarina..... Proceedings in
     Parliament..... Seamen's Bill..... Discontents against the
     Ministry..... Motion for removing Sir Robert Walpole from
     his Majesty's Councils and Presence for ever..... Debate on
     the Mutiny Bill..... Proceedings in the House of Lords.....
     Close of the last Session of this Parliament

THE RUSSIANS TAKE OCZAKOW.

A congress had been opened at Niemerow in Poland, to compromise the differences between the
czarina and the grand seignor; but this proving ineffectual, the emperor declared war against
the Turks, and demanded assistance from the diet of the empire. He concerted the operations
of the campaign with the empress of Muscovy. It was agreed that the Imperialists, under count
Seckendorf, should attack Widdin in Servia; while the Russians, commanded by count de Munich,
should penetrate to the Ukraine, and besiege Oczakow, on the Roristhenes. They accordingly
advanced against this place, which was garrisoned by twenty thousand men, and on the side of
the Roristhenes defended by eighteen galleys. The Muscovites carried on their approaches with
such impetuosity and perseverance, that the Turks were terrified at their valour, and in a
few days capitulated. Among those who signalized themselves by uncommon marks of prowess in
these attacks, was general Keith, now field-marshal in the Prussian service, who was dangerously
wounded on this occasion. Meanwhile count Seckendorf, finding it impossible to reduce Widdin
without a squadron of ships on the Danube, turned his arms against Nissa, which was surrendered
to him on the eight-and-twentieth day of July; but this was the farthest verge of his good
fortune. The Turks attacked the post which the Imperialists occupied along the Danube. They
took the fort of Padudil, burned the town of Has in Wallachia, and plundered the neighbouring
villages. The prince of Saxe-Hilburghausen, who had invested Bagnalack in Bosnia, was defeated,
and obliged to repass the Saave. Count Seckendorf was recalled to Vienna; and the command of
the army devolved upon count Philippe. Count Kevenhuller was obliged to retreat from Servia;
and Nissa was retaken by the Mussulmen. The conferences at Niemerow were broken off; and the
Turkish plenipotentiaries returned to Constantinople.

The kingdom of Poland now enjoyed the most perfect repose under the dominion of Augustus. Ferdinand,
the old duke of Courland, dying without issue, the succession was disputed by the Teutonic
order and the kingdom of Poland, while the states of Courland claimed a right of election,
and sent deputies to Petersburgh, imploring the protection of the czarina. A body of Russian
troops immediately entered that country; and the states elected the count de Biron, high chamberlain
to the empress of Muscovy. The elector of Cologn, as grand-master of the Teutonic order, protested
against this election; but the king of Poland agreed to it, on certain conditions settled at
Dantzic with the commissiaries of the new duke and those of the czarina. In the month of July,
John Gaston de Medicis, great duke of Tuscany, died at Florence; and the prince de Craon took
possession of his territories in the name of the duke of Lorraine, to whom the emperor had
already granted the eventual investiture of that duchy.

DEATH OF CAROLINE, QUEEN CONSORT.

In England the attention of the public was attracted by an open breach in the royal family.
The princess of Wales had advanced to the very last month of her pregnancy before the king
and queen were informed of her being with child. She was twice conveyed from Hampton-Court
to the palace of St. James', when her labour-pains were supposed to be approaching; and at
length was delivered of a princess in about two hours after her arrival. The king being apprised
of this event, sent a message by the earl of Essex to the prince, expressing his displeasure
at the conduct of his royal highness, as an indignity offered to himself and the queen. The
prince deprecated his majesty's anger in several submissive letters, and implored the queen's
mediation. The princess joined her entreaties to those of his royal highness; but all their
humility and supplication proved ineffectual. The king, in another message sent by the duke
of Grafton, observed, that the prince had removed the princess twice in the week immediately
preceding the day of her delivery, from the place of his majesty's residence, in expectation
of her labour; and both times, on his return, industriously concealed from the knowledge of
the king and queen every circumstance relating to this important affair; that at last, without
giving any notice to their majesties, he had precipitately hurried the princess from Hampton-Court
in a condition not to be named; that the whole tenor of his conduct, for a considerable time,
had been so entirely void of all real duty to the king, that his majesty had reason to be highly
offended with him. He gave him to understand, that until he should withdraw his regard and
confidence from those by whose instigation and advice he was directed and encouraged in his
unwarrantable behaviour to his majesty and the queen, and return to his duty, he should not
reside in the palace; he therefore signified his pleasure that he should leave St. James',
with all his family, when it could be done without prejudice or inconvenience to the princess.
In obedience to this order the prince retired to Kew, and made other efforts to be readmitted
into his majesty's favour, which, however, he could not retrieve. Whatever might have been
his design in concealing so long from the king and queen the pregnancy of the princess, and
afterwards hurrying her from place to place in such a condition, to the manifest hazard of
her life, his majesty had certainly cause to be offended at this part of his conduct; though
the punishment seems to have been severe, if not rigorous; for he was not even admitted into
the presence of the queen his mother, to express his duty to her in her last moments, to implore
her forgiveness, and receive her last blessing. She died of a mortification in her bowels,
on the twentieth day of November, in the fifty-fifth year of her age, regretted as a princess
of uncommon sagacity, and as a pattern of conjugal virtue.

DISPUTE IN PARLIAMENT.

The king opened the session of parliament on the twenty-fourth day of January, with a short
speech recommending the despatch of the public business with prudence and unanimity. Each house
presented a warm address of condolence on the queen's death, with which he seemed to be extremely
affected. Though the house of commons unanimously sympathised with the king in his affliction,
the minister still met with contradiction in some of his favourite measures. One would imagine
that all the arguments for and against a standing army in time of peace had been already exhausted;
but, when it was moved that the same number of land forces which they had voted in the preceding
year should be continued in pay for the ensuing year, the dispute was renewed with surprising
vivacity, and produced some reasons which had not been suggested before. The adherents of the
minister fairly owned, that if the army should be disbanded, or even considerably reduced,
they believed the tory interest would prevail; that the present number of forces was absolutely
necessary to maintain the peace of the kingdom, which was filled with clamour and discontent,
as well as to support the whig interest; and that they would vote for keeping up four times
the number, should it be found expedient for that purpose. The members in the opposition replied,
that this declaration was a severe satire on the ministry, whose conduct had given birth to
such a spirit of discontent. They said it was in effect a tacit acknowledgment, that what they
called the whig interest was no more than an inconsiderable party, which had engrossed the
administration by indirect methods; which acted contrary to the sense of the nation; and depended
for support upon a military power, by which the people in general were overawed, and consequently
enslaved. They affirmed, that the discontent of which the ministry complained, was in a great
measure owing to that very standing army, which perpetuated their taxes, and hung over their
heads as the instruments of arbitrary power and oppression. Lord Polworth explained the nature
of whig principles, and demonstrated that the party which distinguished itself by this appellation,
no longer retained the maxims by which the whigs were originally characterised. Sir John Hinde
Cotton, who spoke with the courage and freedom of an old English baron, declared, he never
knew a member of that house who acted on true whig principles, vote for a standing army in
time of peace. "I have heard of whigs," said he, "who opposed all unlimited votes of credit;
I have heard of whigs who looked upon corruption as the greatest curse that could befall any
nation; I have heard of whigs who esteemed the liberty of the press to be the most valuable
privilege of a free people, and triennial parliaments as the greatest bulwark of their liberties;
and I have heard of a whig administration which has resented injuries done to the trade of
the nation, and revenged insults offered to the British flag." The ministry triumphed as usual,
and the same number of forces was continued.

SPANISH DEPREDATIONS.

Ever since the treaty of Seville, the Spaniards in America had almost incessantly insulted
and distressed the commerce of Great Britain. They disputed the right of English traders to
cut logwood in the bay of Campeachy, and gather salt in the island of Tortugas; though that
right was acknowledged by implication in all the treaties which had been lately concluded between
the two nations. The captains of their armed vessels, known by the name of guarda-costas, had
made a practice of boarding and plundering British ships, on pretence of searching for contraband
commodities, on which occasions they had behaved with the utmost insolence, cruelty, and rapine.
Some of their ships of war had actually attacked a fleet of English merchant ships at the island
of Tortugas, as if they had been at open enmity with England. They had seized and detained
a great number of British vessels, imprisoned their crews, and confiscated their cargoes, in
violation of treaties, in defiance of common justice and humanity. Repeated memorials were
presented to the court of Spain, by the British ambassador at Madrid. He was amused with evasive
answers, vague promises of inquiry, and cedulas of instructions sent to the Spanish governors
in America, to which they paid no sort of regard. Not but that the Spaniards had reason to
complain in their turn, of the illicit commerce which the English traders from Jamaica and
other islands, carried on with their subjects on the continent of South America; though this
could not justify the depredations and cruelties which the commanders of the guarda-costas
had committed, without provocation or pretence.

MOTIVES FOR AVOIDING A WAR.

The merchants of England loudly complained of these outrages; the nation was fired with resentment,
and cried for vengeance; but the minister appeared cold, phlegmatic, and timorous. He knew
that a war would involve him in such difficulties as must of necessity endanger his administration.
The treasure which he now employed for domestic purposes, must in that case be expended in
military armaments; the wheels of that machine on which he had raised his influence would no
longer move; the opposition would of consequence gain ground, and the imposition of fresh taxes,
necessary for the maintenance of the war, would fill up the measure of popular resentment against
his person and ministry. Moved by these considerations, he industriously endeavoured to avoid
a rupture, and to obtain some sort of satisfaction by dint of memorials and negotiations, in
which he betrayed his own fears to such a degree, as animated the Spaniards to persist in their
depredations, and encouraged the court of Madrid to disregard the remonstrances of the British
ambassador. But this apprehension of war did not proceed from Spain only; the two branches
of the house of Bourbon were now united by politics, as well as by consanguinity; and he did
not doubt that in case of a rupture with Spain, they would join their forces against Great
Britain. Petitions were delivered to the house by merchants from different parts of the kingdom,
explaining the repeated violences to which they had been exposed, and imploring relief of the
parliament. These were referred to a committee of the whole house; and an order was made to
admit the petitioners, if they should think fit, to be heard by themselves or by counsel. Sir
John Barnard moved for an address to the king, that all the memorials and papers relating to
the Spanish depredations should be laid before the house; and this, with some alteration proposed
by sir Robert Walpole, was actually presented. In compliance with the request, an enormous
multitude of letters and memorials was produced.

The house, in a grand committee, proceeded to hear counsel for the merchants, and examine evidence;
by which it appeared that amazing acts of wanton cruelty and injustice had been perpetrated
by Spaniards on the subjects of Great Britain. Mr. Pulteney expatiated upon these circumstances
of barbarity. He demonstrated, from treaties, the right of the British traders to the logwood
of Campeachy, and to the salt of Tortugas; he exposed the pusillanimity of the minister, and
the futility of his negotiations; he moved for such resolutions as would evince the resentment
of an injured nation, and the vigour of a British parliament. These were warmly combated by
sir Robert Walpole, who affirmed, that they would cramp the ministers in their endeavours to
compromise these differences; that they would frustrate their negotiations, intrench upon the
king's prerogative, and precipitate the nation into an unnecessary and expensive war. Answers
produced replies, and a general debate ensued. A resolution was reported; but the question
being put for recommitting it, was carried in the negative. The house, however, agreed to an
address, beseeching his majesty to use his endeavours to obtain effectual relief for his injured
subjects, to convince the court of Spain that his majesty could no longer suffer such constant
and repeated insults and injuries to be carried on, to the dishonour of his crown, and to the
ruin of his trading subjects; and assuring him, that in case his royal and friendly instances
with the catholic king should miscarry, the house would effectually support his majesty in
taking such measures as honour and justice should make it necessary for him to pursue. To this
address the king made a favourable answer.

{1738}

BILL FOR SECURING THE TRADE IN AMERICA.

The next important subject on which both sides exercised their talents, was a bill prepared
and brought in by Mr. Pulteney, for the more effectual securing the trade of his majesty's
subjects in America. This was no other than the revival of part of two acts passed in the reign
of queen Anne, by which the property of all prizes taken from the enemy was vested in the captors;
while the sovereign was empowered to grant commissions or charters to any persons or societies,
for taking any ships, goods, harbours, lands, or fortifications of the nation's enemies in
America, and for holding and enjoying the same as their own property and estate for ever. The
ministry endeavoured to evade the discussion of this bill, by amusing the house with other
business, until an end should be put to the session. A mean artifice was practised with this
view; and some severe altercation passed between sir Robert Walpole and Mr. Pulteney. At length
the bill was read, and gave rise to a very long and warm contest, in which the greatest orators
of both sides found opportunities to display their eloquence and satire. Mr. Pulteney defended
the bill with all the ardour of paternal affection; but, notwithstanding his warmest endeavours,
it was rejected upon a division.

When the mutiny bill was sent up to the house of lords, a long debate arose upon the number
of troops voted for the ensuing year. Lord Carteret explained the situation of affairs, in
almost every nation of Europe, with great conciseness and precision. He demonstrated the improbability
of a rupture between Great Britain and any power against which a land army could be of any
service. He examined the domestic circumstances of the nation; and proved that whatever discontents
there might be in the kingdom, there was little or no disaffection, and no seeming design to
overturn or disturb the government. In answer to an argument, that such a number of regular
forces were necessary for preventing or quelling tumults, and for enabling the civil magistrate
to execute the laws of his country, he expressed his hope that he should never see the nation
reduced to such unfortunate circumstances: he said, a law which the civil power was unable
to execute, must either be in itself oppressive, or such a one as afforded a handle for oppression.
In arguing for a reduction of the forces, he took notice of the great increase of the national
expense. He observed, that before the revolution, the people of England did not raise above
two millions for the whole of the public charges; but now what was called the current expense,
for which the parliament annually provided, exceeded that sum; besides the civil list, the
interest due to the public creditors, and the sinking fund, which, added together, composed
a burden of six millions yearly. The earl of Chesterfield, on the same subject, affirmed, that
slavery and arbitrary power were the certain consequences of keeping up a standing army for
any number of years. It is the machine by which the chains of slavery are rivetted upon a free
people. They may be secretly prepared by corruption; but, unless a standing army protected
those that forged them, the people would break them asunder, and chop off the polluted hands
by which they were prepared. By degrees a free people must be accustomed to be governed by
an army; by degrees that army must be made strong enough to hold them in subjection. England
had for many years been accustomed to a standing army, under the pretence of its being necessary
to assist the civil power; and by degrees the number and strength of it have been increasing.
At the accession of the late king it did not exceed six thousand; it soon amounted to double
that number, which has been since augmented under various pretences. He therefore concluded,
that slavery, under the disguise of an army for protecting the liberties of the people, was
creeping in upon them by degrees; if no reduction should be made, he declared he should expect
in a few years to hear some minister, or favourite of a minister, terrifying the house with
imaginary plots and invasions, and making the tour of Europe in search of possible dangers,
to show the necessity of keeping up a mercenary standing army, three times as numerous as the
present. In spite of those suggestions, the standing army maintained its ground. The same noblemen,
assisted by lord Bathurst, distinguished themselves in a debate upon the Spanish depredations,
which comprehended the same arguments that were used in the house of commons. They met with
the same success in both. Resolutions equivalent to those of the lower house were taken; an
address was presented; and his majesty assured them he would repeat, in the most pressing manner,
his instances at the court of Spain, in order to obtain satisfaction and security for his subjects
trading to America. This assurance was renewed in his speech at the close of the session, on
the twentieth of May, when the parliament was prorogued.

BIRTH OF PRINCE GEORGE.

At this period the princess of Wales was delivered of a son, who was baptised by the name of
George, now king of Great Britain. His birth was celebrated with uncommon rejoicings: addresses
of congratulation were presented to the king by the two universities, and by almost all the
cities and communities of the kingdom. But the prince of Wales still laboured under the displeasure
of his majesty, who had ordered the lord-chamberlain to signify in the gazette, that no person
who visited the prince should be admitted to the court of St. James'. His royal highness was
divested of all the external marks of royalty, and lived like a private gentleman, cultivating
the virtues of a social life, and enjoying the best fruits of conjugal felicity. In the latter
end of this month, rear-admiral Haddock set sail with a strong squadron for the Mediterranean,
which it was hoped would give weight to the negotiation of the British minister at the court
of Madrid. The act to discourage the retail of spirituous liquors had incensed the populace
to such a degree, as occasioned numberless tumults in the cities of London and Westminster.
They were so addicted to the use of that pernicious compound, known by the appellation of gin
or geneva, that they ran all risks rather than forego it entirely; and so little regard was
paid to the law by which it was prohibited, that in less than two years twelve thousand persons
within the bills of mortality were convicted of having sold it illegally. Nearly one half of
that number were cast in the penalty of one hundred pounds; and three thousand persons paid
ten pounds each, for an exemption from the disgrace of being committed to the house of correction.

PROGRESS of the WAR AGAINST the TURKS.

The war maintained by the emperor and the czarina against the Ottoman Porte, had not yet produced
any decisive event. Count Seckendorf was disgraced and confined on account of his ill success
in the last campaign. General Doxat was tried by a council of war at Belgrade, and condemned
to death, for having surrendered to the enemy the town of Nissa, in which he commanded. The
diet of the empire granted a subsidy of fifty Roman months to the emperor, who began to make
vigorous preparations for the ensuing campaign; but, in the meantime, Ragotski, vaivode of
Transylvania, revolted against the house of Austria, and brought a considerable army into the
field, under the protection of the grand seignor. He was immediately proclaimed a rebel, and
a price set upon his head by the court of Vienna. The Turks taking the field early, reduced
the forts of Usitza and Meadia, and undertook the siege of Orsova; which however they abandoned
at the approach of the Imperial army, commanded by the grand duke of Tuscany, assisted by count
Konigsegg. The Turks, being reinforced, marched back and attacked the Imperialists, by whom
they were repulsed after an obstinate engagement. The Germans, notwithstanding this advantage,
repassed the Danube; and then the infidels made themselves masters of Orsova, where they found
a fine train of artillery, designed for the siege of Widdin. By the conquest of this place,
the Turks laid the Danube open to their galleys and vessels; and the Germans retired under
the cannon of Belgrade. In the Ukraine, the Russians, under general count Munich, obtained
the advantage over the Turks in two engagements; and general Lasci routed the Tartars of the
Crimea; but they returned in greater numbers, and harassed the Muscovites in such a manner,
by intercepting their provisions, and destroying the country, that they were obliged to abandon
the lines of Precops.

DISPUTE BETWEEN HANOVER AND DENMARK.

In the month of October, an affair of very small importance produced a rupture between the
king of Denmark and the elector of Hanover. A detachment of Hanoverians took by assault the
castle of Steinhurst, belonging to the privy-counsellor Wederkop, and defended by thirty Danish
dragoons, who had received orders to repel force by force. Several men were killed on both
sides before the Hanoverians could enter the place, when the garrison was disarmed, and conducted
to the frontiers. This petty dispute about a small territory, which did not yield the value
of one thousand pounds a-year, had well nigh involved Hanover in a war, which, in all probability,
Great Britain must have maintained; but this dispute was compromised by a convention between
the king of England and Denmark. The motion for an address of approbation was disputed as usual.
Though the convention was not vet laid before the house, the nature of it was well known to
the leaders of the opposition. I Sir William Wyndham observed, that if the ministry had made
the resolutions taken by the parliament in the last session the foundation of their demands;
if they had discovered a resolution to break off all treating, rather than depart from the
sense of parliament, either a defensive treaty might have been obtained, or by this time the
worst would have been known; but, by what appeared from his majesty's speech, the convention
was no other than a preliminary; and, in all probability, a very bad preliminary. He supposed
the minister had ventured to clothe some of his creatures with full powers to give up the rights
of the nation; for they might do it if they durst. Sir Robert Walpole, in answer to these suggestions,
affirmed, that the ministry had on this occasion obtained more than ever on like occasions
was known to be obtained; that they had reconciled the peace of their country with her true
interest; that this peace was attended with all the advantages that the most successful arms
could have procured; that future ages would consider this as the most glorious period of our
history, and do justice to the councils that produced the happy event, which every gentleman
divested of passion and prejudice was ready to do; and which, he believed, the present age,
when rightly informed, would not refuse. In a word, he extolled his own convention with the
most extravagant encomiums.

The house resolved to address the king, that copies of all the memorials, representations,
letters, and papers, presented to his majesty, or his secretary of state, relating to depredations,
should be submitted to the peru sal of the house; but some members in the opposition were not
contented with this resolution. Then Mr. Sandys, who may be termed the "motion-maker," moved
for an address, desiring that the house might inspect all letters written, and instructions
given by the secretaries of state, or commissioners of the admiralty, to any of the British
governors in America, or any commander-in-chief, or captains of his majesty's ships of war,
or his majesty's minister at the court of Spain, or any of his majesty's consuls in Europe,
since the treaty of Seville, relating to losses which the British subjects had sustained by
means of depredations committed by the subjects of Spain in Europe and America. This was an
unreasonable proposal, suggested by the spirit of animosity and faction. Mr. H. Walpole justly
observed, that a compliance with such an address might lay open the most private transactions
of the cabinet, and discover secrets that ought, for the good of the kingdom, to be concealed.
It would discover to the court of Spain the ultimatum of the king's demands and concessions,
and the nation would thereby be deprived of many advantages which it might reap, were no such
discovery made. He said, that as soon as the differences betwixt the two courts should arrive
at such a crisis, and not before, the consuls were instructed to give notice to the merchants
that they might retire in time with their effects; but should such instruction come to the
knowledge of the Spaniards, it would be a kind of watch-word to put them on their guard, and
unavoidably occasion the ruin of many thousands of British subjects. Certain it is, no government
could act either in external or domestic affairs with proper influence, dignity, and despatch,
if every letter and instruction relating to an unfinished negotiation should be exposed to
the view of such a numerous assembly, composed of individuals actuated by motives in themselves
diametrically opposite. The motion being rejected by the majority, the same gentleman moved
again for an address, that his majesty would give directions for laying before the house copies
of such memorials or representations as had been made, either to the king of Spain or to his
ministers, since the treaty of Seville, relating to the depredations committed in Europe or
America. A debate ensued; and, upon a division, the question passed in the negative.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

PETITIONS AGAINST THE CONVENTION.

The house, in a committee of supply, voted twelve thousand seamen for the service of the ensuing
year, and the standing army was continued without reduction, though powerfully attacked by
the whole strength of the opposition. The commons likewise ordered an address to his majesty,
for the copies of several memorials since the treaty of Seville, touching the rights of Great
Britain, or any infraction of treaties which had not been laid before them. These were accordingly
submitted to the inspection of the house. By this time the convention itself was not only presented
to the commons, but also published for the information of the people. Divers merchants, planters,
and others trading to America, the cities of London and Bristol, the merchants of Liverpool,
and owners of sundry ships which had been seized by the Spaniards, offered petitions against
the convention, by which the subjects of Spain were so far from giving up their groundless
and unjustifiable practice of visiting and searching British ships sailing to and from the
British plantations, that they appeared to have claimed the power of doing it as a right; for
they insisted that the differences which had arisen concerning it should be referred to plenipotentiaries,
to be discussed by them without even agreeing to abstain from such visitation and search during
the time that the discussion of this affair might last. They therefore prayed that they might
have an opportunity of being heard, and allowed to represent the great importance of the British
trade to and from the plantations in America; the clear and un disputable right which they
had to enjoy it, without being stopped, visited, or searched by the Spaniards, on any pretence
whatsoever; and the certain inevitable destruction of all the riches and strength derived to
Great Britain from that trade, if a search of British ships sailing to and from their own plantations
should be tolerated upon any pretext, or under any restrictions, or even if the freedom of
this navigation should continue much longer in a state of uncertainty. These petitions were
referred to the committee appointed to consider of the convention. Another remonstrance was
likewise presented by the trustees for establishing the colony of Georgia, setting forth that
the king of Spain claimed that colony as part of his territories; and that by the convention,
the regulation of the limits of Carolina and Florida was referred to the determination of plenipotentiaries;
so that the colony of Georgia, which undoubtedly belonged to the crown of Great Britain, was
left in dispute, while the settlers remained in the most precarious and dangerous situation.
It was moved that the merchants should be heard by their counsel; but the proposal was strenuously
opposed by the ministry, and rejected upon a division.

This famous convention, concluded at the Pardo on the fourteenth day of January, imported,
that within six weeks to be reckoned from the day on which the ratifications were exchanged,
two ministers plenipotentiaries should meet at Madrid, to confer, and finally regulate the
respective pretentions of the two crowns, with relation to the trade and navigation in America
and Europe, and to the limits of Florida and Carolina, as well as concerning other points which
remained likewise to be adjusted, according to the former treaties subsisting between the two
nations: that the plenipotentiaries should finish their conferences within the space of eight
months: that in the meantime no progress should be made in the fortifications of Florida and
Carolina: that his catholic majesty should pay to the king of Great Britain, the sum of ninety-five
thousand pounds, for a balance due to the crown and subjects of Great Britain, after deduction
made of the demands of the crown and subjects of Spain: that this sum should be employed for
the satisfaction, discharge, and payment of the demands of the British subjects upon the crown
of Spain: that this reciprocal discharge, however, should not extend or relate to the accounts
and differences which subsisted and were to bo settled between the crown of Spain and the assiento
company, nor to any particular or private contracts that might subsist between either of the
two crowns, or their ministers, with the subjects of the other; or between the subjects of
each nation respectively: that his catholic majesty should cause the sum of ninety-five thousand
pounds to be paid at London within four mouths, to be reckoned from the day on which the ratifications
were exchanged. Such was the substance of that convention, which alarmed and provoked the merchants
and traders of Great Britain, excited the indignation of all those who retained any regard
for the honour of their country, and raised a general cry against the minister who stood at
the helm of administration.

DEBATE ON THE CONTENTION.

The eyes of the whole kingdom were now turned upon the house of commons. The two contending
parties summoned their whole force for the approaching dispute; on the day appointed for considering
the convention, four hundred members had taken their seats by eight in the morning. In a committee
of the whole house, certain West India merchants and planters were heard against the convention;
so that this and the following day were employed in reading papers, and obtaining information.
On the eighth clay of March, Mr. H. Walpole having launched out in the praise of that agreement,
moved for an address of approbation to his majesty. He was seconded by Mr. Campbell of Pembrokeshire;
and the debate began with extraordinary ardour. He who first distinguished himself in the lists
was sir Thomas Sanderson, at that time treasurer to the prince of Wales, afterwards earl of
Scarborough. All the officers and adherents of his royal highness had joined the opposition;
and he himself on this occasion sat in the gallery, to hear the debate on such an important
transaction. Sir Thomas Sanderson observed, that the Spaniards by the convention, instead of
giving us reparation, had obliged us to give them a general release. They had not allowed the
word satisfaction to be so much as once mentioned in the treaty. Even the Spanish pirate who
had cut off the ear of captain Jenkins, [260] [See note 2 L at the end of this Vol.] and used
the most insulting expression towards the person of the king--an expression which no British
subject could decently repeat--an expression which no man that had a regard for his sovereign
could ever forgive--even this fellow lived to enjoy the fruits of his rapine, and remained
a living testimony of the cowardly tameness and mean submission of Great Britain; of the triumphant
haughtiness and stubborn pride of Spain. Lord Gage, one of the most keen spirited and sarcastic
orators in the house, stated in this manner the account of the satisfaction obtained from the
court of Spain by the convention; the losses sustained by the Spanish depredations amounted
to three hundred and forty thousand pounds; the commissary by a stroke of his pen reduced his
demand to two hundred thousand pounds; then forty-five thousand were struck off for prompt
payment; he next allotted sixty thousand pounds as the remaining part of a debt pretended to
be due to Spain, for the destruction of her fleet by sir George Byng, though it appeared by
the instructions on the table, that Spain had been already amply satisfied on that head; these
deductions reduced the balance to ninety-five thousand pounds; but the king of Spain insisted
upon the South-Sea company's paying immediately the sum of sixty-eight thousand pounds, as
a debt due to him on one head of accounts, though in other articles his catholic majesty was
indebted to the company a million over and above the demand; the remainder to be paid by Spain
did not exceed seven-and-twenty thousand pounds, from which she insisted upon deducting whatever
she might have already given in satisfaction for any of the British ships that had been taken;
and on being allowed the value of the St. Theresa, a Spanish ship which had been seized in
the port of Dublin. Mr. W. Pitt, with an energy of argument and diction peculiar to himself,
declaimed against the convention, as insecure, unsatisfactory, and dishonourable to Great Britain.
He said the great national objection, the searching of British ships, was not admitted, indeed,
in the preamble; but stood there as the reproach of the whole, as the strongest evidence of
the fatal submission that followed; on the part of Spain, an usurpation, an inhuman tyranny
claimed and exercised over the American seas: on the part of England, an undoubted right by
treaties, and from God and nature, declared and asserted in the resolutions of parliament,
were now referred to the discussion of plenipotentiaries, upon one and the same equal footing.
This undoubted right was to be discussed and regulated; and if to regulate be to prescribe
rules, as in all construction it is, that right was, by the express words of the convention,
to be given up and sacrificed; for it must cease to be any thing from the moment it is submitted
to limitation. Mr. Lyttelton, with equal force and fluency, answered the speech of Mr. H. Walpole.
"After he had used many arguments to persuade us to peace," said he, "to any peace, good or
bad, by pointing out the dangers of a war, dangers I by no means allow to be such as he represents
them, he crowned all those terrors with the name of the pretender. It would be the cause of
the pretender. The pretender would come. Is the honourable gentleman sensible what this language
imports? The people of England complain of the greatest wrongs and indignities; they complain
of the interruption, the destruction of their trade; they think the peace has left them in
a worse condition than before; and in answer to all these complaints, what are they told? Why,
that their continuing to suffer all this, is the price they must pay to keep the king and his
family on the throne of these realms. If this were true, it ought not to be owned; but it is
far from truth; the very reverse is true. Nothing can weaken the family; nothing shake the
establishment, but such measures as these, and such language as this." He affirmed, that if
the ministers had proceeded conformably to the intentions of parliament, they would either
have acted with vigour, or have obtained a real security in an express acknowledgment of our
right not to be searched as a preliminary, sine qua non, to our treating at all. Instead of
this, they had referred it to plenipotentiaries. "Would you, sir," said he, "submit to a reference,
whether you may travel unmolested from your house in town to your house in the country? Your
right is clear and undeniable, why would you have it discussed? but much less would you refer
it, if two of your judges belonged to a gang which has often stopped and robbed you in your
way thither before." The ministers, in vindication of the convention, asserted, that the satisfaction
granted by Spain was adequate to the injury received; that it was only the preliminary of a
treaty which would remove all causes of complaint; that war was always expensive and detrimental
to a trading nation, as well as uncertain in its events; that France and Spain would certainly
join their forces in case of a rupture with Great Britain; that there was not one power in
Europe upon which the English could depend for effectual assistance; and that war would favour
the cause and designs of a popish pretender. The house, upon a division, agreed to the address;
but when a motion was made for its being recommitted, the two parties renewed the engagement
with redoubled eagerness and impetuosity. Sir William Wyndham and Mr. Pulteney poured all the
thunder of their eloquence against the insolence of Spain, and the concessions of the British
ministry. Sir Robert Walpole exerted all his fortitude and dexterity in defence of himself
and his measures, and the question being put, the resolutions for the address were carried
by a small majority.

SECESSION OF THE CHIEF MEMBERS IN THE OPPOSITION.

Then sir William Wyndham, standing up, made a pathetic remonstrance upon this determination.
"This address," said he, "is intended to convince mankind, that the treaty under our consideration
is a reasonable and an honourable treaty. But if a majority of twenty-eight in such a full
house should fail of that success; if the people should not implicitly resign their reason
to a vote of this house, what will be the consequence? Will not the parliament lose its authority?
Will it not be thought, that even in the parliament we are governed by a faction? and what
the consequence of this may be, I leave to those gentlemen to consider, who are now to give
their vote for this address: for my own part, I will trouble you no more, but, with these my
last words, I sincerely pray to Almighty God, who has so often wonderfully protected these
kingdoms, that he will graciously continue his protection over them, by preserving us from
that impending danger which threatens the nation from without, and likewise from that impending
danger which threatens our constitution from within." The minister was on this occasion deserted
by his usual temper, and even provoked into personal abuse. He branded them all as traitors,
and expressed his hope, that their behaviour would unite all the true friends of the present
happy establishment. To such a degree of mutual animosity were both sides inflamed, that the
most eminent members of the minority actually retired from parliament; and were by the nation
in general revered as martyrs to the liberty of the people.

THE HOUSE OF LORDS DEBATE UPON AN ADDRESS TO HIS MAJESTY.

The dispute occasioned by the convention in the house of lords, was maintained with equal warmth,
and perhaps with more abilities. After this famous treaty had been considered, lord Carteret
suggested, that possibly one of the contracting powers had presented a protest or declaration,
importing that she acceded to such or such a measure, only upon condition that the terms of
that protest or declaration should be made good. He said, that until his mind should be free
from the most distant suspicion that such a paper might exist in the present case, he could
not form a just opinion of the transaction himself, nor communicate to their lordships any
light which might be necessary for that purpose. The adherents to the ministry endeavoured
to evade his curiosity in this particular, by general assertions; but he insisted on his suspicion
with such perseverance, that at length the ministry produced the copy of a declaration made
by the king of Spain before he ratified the convention, signifying that his catholic majesty
reserved to himself, in its full force, the right of being able to suspend the assiento of
negroes, in case the company should not pay within a short time the sum of sixty-eight thousand
pounds sterling, owing to Spain on the duty of negroes, or on the profit of the ship Caroline;
that under the validity and force of this protest, the signing of the said convention might
be proceeded on, and in no other manner. In the debate that ensued, lord Carteret displayed
a surprising extent of political knowledge, recommended by all the graces of elocution, chaste,
pure, dignified, and delicate. Lord Bathurst argued against the articles of convention with
his usual spirit, integrity, and good sense, particularly animated by an honest indignation
which the wrongs of his country had inspired. The earl of Chesterfield attacked this inglorious
measure with all the weight of argument, and all the poignancy of satire. The duke of Argyle,
no longer a partisan of the ministry, inveighed against it as infamous, treacherous, and destructive,
with all the fire, impetuosity, and enthusiasm of declamation. It was defended with unequal
arms by the duke of Newcastle, the earl of Cholmondeley, lord Hervey, the lord chancellor,
the bishop of Salisbury, and in particular by the earl of Hay, a nobleman of extensive capacity
and uncommon erudition; remarkable for his knowledge of the civil law, and seemingly formed
by nature for a politician; cool, discerning, plausible, artful, and enterprising, staunch
to the minister, and invariably true to his own interest. The dispute was learned, long, and
obstinate; but ended as usual in the discomfiture of those who had stigmatized the treaty.
The house agreed to an address, in which they thanked his majesty for his gracious condescension
in laying before them the convention. They acknowledged his great prudence in bringing the
demands of his subjects for their past losses, which had been so long depending, to a final
adjustment; in procuring an express stipulation for a speedy payment; and in laying a foundation
for accomplishing the great and desirable ends of obtaining future security, and preserving
the peace between the two nations. This was a hard won victory. At the head of those who voted
against the address we find the prince of Wales. His example was followed by six dukes, two-and-twenty
earls, four viscounts, eighteen barons, four bishops, and their party was reinforced by sixteen
proxies. A spirited protest was entered and subscribed by nine-and-thirty peers, comprehending
all the noblemen of the kingdom who were most eminent for their talents, integrity, and virtue.

{1739}

A message having been delivered to the house from his majesty, importing, that he had settled
nine-and-thirty thousand pounds per annum on the younger children of the royal family; and
desiring their lordships would bring in a bill to enable his majesty to make that provision
good out of the hereditary revenues of the crown, some lords in the opposition observed that
the next heir to the crown might look upon this settlement as a mortgage of his revenue, which
a parliament had no power to make; that formerly no daughter of the royal family was ever provided
for by parliament, except the eldest, and that never was by way of annuity, but an express
provision of a determinate sum of money paid by way of dowry. These objections were overruled;
and the house complied with his majesty's request. Then the duke of Newcastle produced a subsidy-treaty,
by which his majesty obliged himself to pay to the king of Denmark seventy thousand pounds
per annum, on condition of the Dane's furnishing to his Britannic majesty a body of six thousand
men, when demanded. At the same time his grace delivered a message from the king, desiring
the house would enable him to fulfil this engagement; and also to raise what money and troops
the exigency of affairs, during the approaching recess, might require. Another vehement dispute
arose from this proposal. With respect to the treaty, lord Carteret observed, that no use could
be made of the Danish troops in any expedition undertaken against Spain, because it was stipulated
in the treaty that they should not be used either in Italy, or on board of the fleet, or be
transported in whole or in part beyond sea, after they should have marched out of the territories
of Denmark, except for the defence of the kingdoms of Great Britain and Ireland; nay, should
France join against the English, the Danes could not act against that power or Spain, except
as part of an army formed in Germany or Flanders. This body of Danes may be said, therefore,
to have been retained for the defence and protection of Hanover; or, if the interest of Britain
was at all consulted in the treaty, it must have been in preventing the Danes from joining
their fleets to those of France or Spain. Then he argued against the second part of the message
with great vivacity. He said nothing could be more dangerous to the constitution than a general
and unlimited vote of credit. Such a demand our ancestors would have heard with amazement,
and rejected with scorn. He affirmed that the practice was of modern date in England; that
it was never heard of before the revolution; and never became frequent until the nation was
blessed with the present wise administration. He said, if ever a general vote of credit and
confidence should become a customary compliment from the parliament to the crown at the end
of every session, or as often as the minister might think fit to desire it, parliaments would
grow despicable in the eyes of the people; then a proclamation might be easily substituted
in its stead, and happy would it be for the nation if that should be sufficient; for when a
parliament ceases to bo a check upon ministers, it becomes a useless and unnecessary burden
on the people. The representatives must always be paid some way or other; if their wages are
not paid openly and surely by their respective constituents, as they were formerly, a majority
of them may in future times be always ready to accept of wages from the administration, and
these must come out of the pockets of the people. The duke of Argyle and the earl of Chesterfield
enlarged upon the same topics. Nevertheless, the house complied with the message; and presented
an address, in which they not only approved of the treaty with Denmark, but likewise assured
his majesty they would concur with his measures, and support him in fulfilling his engagements,
as well as in making such further augmentation of his forces by sea and land, as he should
think necessary for the honour, interest, and safety of these kingdoms.

PARLIAMENT PROROGUED.

The same message being communicated to the commons, they voted seventy thousand five hundred
and eighty-three pounds for the subsidy to Denmark, and five hundred thousand pounds for augmenting
the forces on any emergency. As Great Britain stood engaged by the convention to pay to the
crown of Spain the sum of sixty thousand pounds in consideration of the ships taken and destroyed
by sir George Byng, which sum was to be applied to the relief of the British merchants who
had suffered by the Spanish depredations, the commons inserted in a bill a clause providing
for this sum to be paid by the parliament. When the bill was read in the house of lords, a
motion was made by lord Bathurst for an address, to know, whether Spain had paid the money
stipulated by the convention, as the time limited for the payment of it was now expired. The
duke of Newcastle, by his majesty's permission, acquainted the house that it was not paid,
and that Spain had as yet given no reason for the non-payment. Then a day was appointed to
consider the state of the nation, when lord Carteret moved for a resolution, that the failure
of Spain in this particular was a breach of the convention, a high indignity to his majesty,
and an injustice to the nation; but, after a warm debate, this motion was overruled by the
majority. The minister, in order to atone in some measure for the unpopular step he had taken
in the convention, allowed a salutary law to pass for the encouragement of the woollen manufacture,
and two bills in behalf of the sugar colonies; one permitting them, for a limited time, to
export their produce directly to foreign parts, under proper restrictions; and the other making
more effectual provisions for securing the duties laid upon the importation of foreign sugars,
rum, and molasses, into Great Britain, and his majesty's plantations in America. The supplies
being voted, the funds established, and the crown gratified in every particular, the king closed
the session with a speech on the fourteenth day of June, when the chancellor in his majesty's
name prorogued the parliament. [262] [See note 2 M, at the end of this Vol.]

THE KING OF SPAIN PUBLISHES A MANIFESTO.

Letters of marque and reprisal were granted against the Spaniards; a promotion was made of
general officers; the troops were augmented; a great fleet was assembled at Spithead; a reinforcement
sent out to admiral Haddock; and an embargo laid on all merchant ships outward-bound. Notwithstanding
these preparations of war, Mr. Keen, the British minister at Madrid, declared to the court
of Spain, that his master, although he had permitted his subjects to make reprisals, would
not be understood to have broken the peace; and that this permission would be recalled as soon
as his catholic majesty should be disposed to make the satisfaction which had been so justly
demanded. He was given to understand, that the king of Spain looked upon those reprisals as
acts of hostility; and that he hoped, with the assistance of heaven and his allies, he should
be able to support a good cause against his adversaries. He published a manifesto in justification
of his own conduct, complaining that admiral Haddock had received orders to cruise with his
squadron between the capes St. Vincent and St. Mary, in order to surprise the Assogue ships;
that letters of reprisal had been published at London in an indecent style, and even carried
into execution in different parts of the world. He excused his non-payment of the ninety-five
thousand pounds stipulated in the convention, by affirming that the British court had first
contravened the articles of that treaty, by the orders sent to Haddock; by continuing to fortify
Georgia; by reinforcing the squadron at Jamaica; and by eluding the payment of the sixty-eight
thousand pounds due to Spain from the South-Sea company, on the assiento for negroes. The French
ambassador at the Hague declared that the king his master was obliged by treaties to assist
his catholic majesty by sea and land, in case he should be attacked; he dissuaded the states-general
from espousing the quarrel of Great Britain; and they assured him they would observe a strict
neutrality, though they could not avoid furnishing his Britannic majesty with such succours
as he could demand, by virtue of the treaties subsisting between the two powers. The people
of England were inspired with uncommon alacrity at the near prospect of war, for which they
had so long clamoured; and the ministry seeing it unavoidable, began to be earnest and effectual
in their preparations.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE EMPEROR AND CZARINA CONCLUDE A PEACE WITH THE TURKS.

The events of war were still unfavourable to the emperor. He had bestowed the command of his
army upon velt-mareschal count Wallis, who assembled his forces in the neighbourhood of Belgrade;
and advanced towards Crotska, where he was attacked by the Turks with such impetuosity and
perseverance, that he was obliged to give ground, after a long and obstinate engagement, in
which he lost above six thousand men. The earl of Crawford, who served as a volunteer in the
Imperial army, signalised his courage in an extraordinary manner on this occasion, and received
a dangerous wound of which he never perfectly recovered. The Turks were afterwards worsted
at Jabouka; nevertheless, their grand army invested Belgrade on the side of Servia, and carried
on the operations of the siege with extraordinary vigour. The emperor, dreading the loss of
this place, seeing his finances exhausted, and his army considerably diminished, consented
to a negotiation for peace, which was transacted under the mediation of the French ambassador
at the Ottoman Porte. The count de Neuperg, as Imperial plenipotentiary, signed the preliminaries
on the first day of September. They were ratified by the emperor, though he pretended to be
dissatisfied with the articles; and declared that his minister had exceeded his powers. By
this treaty the house of Austria ceded to the grand seignor, Belgrade, Sabatz, Servia, Austrian
Wallachia, the isle and fortress of Orsova, with the fort of St. Elizabeth; and the contracting
powers agreed that the Danube and the Saave should serve as boundaries to the two empires.
The emperor published a circular letter, addressed to his ministers at all the courts of Europe,
blaming count Wallis for the bad success of the last campaign, and disowning the negotiations
of count Neuperg; nay, these two officers were actually disgraced, and confined in different
castles. This, however, was no other than a sacrifice to the resentment of the czarina, who
loudly complained that the emperor had concluded a separate peace, contrary to his engagements
with the Russian empire. Her general, count Munich, had obtained a victory over the Turks at
Choczim in Moldavia, and made himself master of that place, in which he found two hundred pieces
of artillery; but the country was so ruined by the incursions of the Tartars, that the Muscovites
could not subsist in it during the winter. The czarina finding herself abandoned by the emperor,
and unable to cope with the whole power of the Ottoman empire, took the first opportunity of
putting an end to the war upon honourable terms. After a short negotiation, the conferences
ended in a treaty, by which she was left in possession of Azoph, on condition that its fortifications
should be demolished; and the ancient limits were re-established between the two empires.

PREPARATIONS FOR WAR IN ENGLAND.

A rupture between Great Britain and Spain was now become inevitable. The English squadron in
the Mediterranean had already made prize of two rich Caracca ships. The king had issued orders
for augmenting his land forces, and raising a body of marines; and a great number of ships
of war were put in commission. Admiral Vernon had been sent to the West Indies, to assume the
command of the squadron in those seas, and to annoy the trade and settlements of the Spaniards.
This gentleman had rendered himself considerable in the house of commons, by loudly condemning
all the measures of the ministry, and bluntly speaking his sentiments, whatever they were,
without respect of persons, and sometimes without any regard to decorum. He was counted a good
officer, and this boisterous manner seemed to enhance his character. As he had once commanded
a squadron in Jamaica, he was perfectly well acquainted with those seas; and in a debate upon
the Spanish depredations, he chanced to affirm, that Porto Bello on the Spanish main might
be easily taken; nay, he even undertook to reduce it with six ships only. This officer was
echoed from the mouths of all the members in the opposition. Vernon was extolled as a another
Drake or Raleigh; he became the idol of a party, and his praise resounded from all corners
of the kingdom. The minister, in order to appease the clamours of the people on this subject,
sent him as commander-in-chief to the West Indies. He was pleased with an opportunity to remove
such a troublesome censor from the house of commons; and, perhaps, he was not without hope,
that Vernon would disgrace himself and his party, by failing in the exploit he had undertaken.
His catholic majesty having ordered all the British ships in his harbours to be seized and
detained, the king of England would keep measures with him no longer, but denounced war against
him on the twenty-third day of October. Many English merchants began to equip privateers, and
arm their trading vessels to protect their own commerce, as well as to distress that of the
enemy. The session of parliament was opened in November, when the king, in his speech to both
houses, declared, that he had augmented his forces by sea and land, pursuant to the power vested
in him by parliament for the security of his dominions, the protection of trade, and the annoyance
of the enemy; and he expressed his apprehension, that the heats and animosities which had been
industriously fomented throughout the kingdom, encouraged Spain to act in such a manner as
rendered it necessary for him to have recourse to arms. In answer to this speech, affectionate
addresses were presented by both houses, without any considerable opposition.

The seceding members had again resumed their seats in the house of commons; and Mr. Pulteney
thought proper to vindicate the extraordinary step which they had taken. He said, they thought
that step was necessary, as affairs then stood, for clearing their characters to posterity
from the imputation of sitting in an assembly, where a determined majority gave a sanction
to measures evidently to the disgrace of his majesty and the nation. He observed, that their
conduct was so fully justified by the declaration of war against Spain, that any further vindication
would be superfluous; for every assertion contained in it had been almost in the same words
insisted upon by those who opposed the convention: "every sentence in it," added he, "is an
echo of what was said in our reasonings against that treaty; every positive truth which the
declaration lays down, was denied with the utmost confidence by those who spoke for the convention;
and, since that time, there has not one event happened which was not then foreseen and foretold."
He proposed, that in maintaining the war, the Spanish settlements in the West Indies should
be attacked; and that the ministry should not have the power to give up the conquests that
might be made. He said he heartily wished, for his majesty's honour and service, that no mention
had been made of heats and animosities, in the king's speech; and gave it as his opinion, that
they should take no notice of that clause in their address. He was answered by sir Robert Walpole,
who took occasion to say, he was in no great concern lest the service of his majesty or the
nation should suffer by the absence of those members who had quitted the house; he affirmed,
the nation was generally sensible, that the many useful and popular acts which passed towards
the end of the last session, were greatly forwarded and facilitated by the secession of those
gentlemen; and, if they were returned only to oppose and perplex, he should not be at all sorry
to see them secede again.

PENSION-BILL REVIVED AND LOST.

