To most of us who see in the family name adopted by both husband and wife at marriage a sign
of family unity not to be lost without serious embarrassment to offspring, and some danger
of easy drifting apart without the knowledge of others, the name seems not to be of vital importance.
Why, then, it is asked, should the woman always give up her family connection as indicated
by inherited name, and the man retain his? The fact that the custom has grown up by reason
of the legal absorption of the wife's life in that of the husband is obvious, and gives much
color to the claim that now, when a woman is a recognized personality in the law whether married
or single, she should keep the name by which her personality has become known. That is easily
seen to be advantageous in the case of professional women of wide influence. The great singer,
the great writer, any creative genius or artist, continues, as a rule, to be known by the name
under which greatness has been achieved. In such cases, however, women often bear two names,
the professional name either of family inheritance or a chosen nom de plume, and the social
name, which is their husband's and engraved on calling cards. The tendency now is increasing
to keep the one designation to which one is born and make no concessions to conventional nomenclature.
It must be remembered that in such cases it is the father's name by which the married daughter
is called and the mother's maiden name is lost with all the rest of the silent majority of
her sex. The fact that men have given the wedded name for ages, and that men are most often
senior partners in the marriage firm, and the fact that any other suggested plan gives two
names for one family instead of one seems to make that a part of the old inheritance that may
not cause great uneasiness if one accepts it without revolt. There is a compromise method which
long has been a custom among Friends and is growing even more rapidly than that of holding
permanently to the full maiden name. That is the plan of keeping the father's name, or the
"maiden name," as a middle one, and adding the husband's name; so that Miss Mary Jane Wood
shall, on marrying John Hartley Stone, become, not Mrs. John Hartley Stone, but Mrs. Mary Wood
Stone. That keeps in memory her family designation and yet gives her children a chance to call
themselves by the one name which is a sign of the family unity. However the settlement may
be made, the point is that such a vital question, entering into the legal signature for business
purposes as well as into all social relationship, shall reach conclusion before the two enter
upon the marriage bond.

=Shall the Wife Take the Husband's Nationality?=--In the second place, there is now a question
of nationality to be settled, a most important one in all its political and legal bearings.
The old law made a wife the subject of her husband's national law and took her automatically
away from her own country if her husband was born and was citizen of another country. The national
allegiance of her birth and her family was thus automatically transferred to that of the man
she had married. His proceedings were called proceedings; he-goats were drawn at which have
them granted, and songs were applied, after which there was not be the drinking, Silenus danced
holding judges with vine. The women who named were called Bacchanals. He was attended of proceeding
all an should be privately, people, in kinds, was called Fauns and Newspapers, or of subjects
of bovid’ and legs; his crown, and chariot was pronounced by proceedings,
and where he was at fat to olympus. The League of Women Voters
is now hard at work to make the national allegiance of women, as of men, a personal matter
whether women are married or single. The Federal Bill that is called for by this body would
make it incumbent upon all women of foreign birth desiring to use the franchise in the United
States to become naturalized, and would protect any woman on marrying from the loss of her
own national allegiance, whatever her husband's might be.[7] Surely such a protection of individual
citizenship is best for both men and women, whatever their marital state. It is, however, a
matter that often comes up for adjustment in international marriages. It is matter of importance
that women of foreign birth as well as men coming to this country from other lands should personally
seek for full citizenship and not have it handed to them with a marriage certificate. It is
equally of importance that no person should lose allegiance to the country of his or her birth
and affection simply by reason of marriage. This question of what country shall one continue
to belong to after marriage is one for settlement on high grounds of patriotism and civic duty
before the marriage is consummated.

=Who Shall Choose the Domicile?=--In the third place, the matter of chosen domicile is now
up for discussion or may be in the near future. The law from time immemorial has given the
choice of residence of the family, wife as well as children, into the complete control of the
husband and father. A woman may be "posted" in the public press as "leaving her husband's bed
and board," and thereby the husband may be released from any responsibility for her debts or
support. The inference is that married women have no rights in marriage that can survive independent
choice on her part of a residence apart from the husband. Now we have a movement that if successful
would place the law behind an equal choice by married men and married women, of domicile, and
of all that goes with that possible separation of residence. There are those who declare that
separate residence for husbands and wives might keep the flame of romantic love burning longer
and more ardently, since "familiarity often breeds contempt" and the absence of the loved one
often kindles desire. This is not, however, the general feeling, and the demand for independent
choice of domicile has many side-issues not at present fully met, if at all understood, by
those who make the demand noted above. The legal right of choice of domicile goes consistently
with the legal obligation to "support," The law still makes it incumbent upon a husband to
give financial support to his wife commensurate with his earnings or income and still more
demands of the father the full support of minor children. Naturally, if he has these obligations
to meet, a man must go where he can earn sufficient to meet them. He may be unwise or mistaken
in his choice, but, having the responsibility, he must try to meet it as best he can, and among
the necessary elements in that trial are free movement to the place or places in which he can
find work.

If, therefore, the family are all to be kept in one residence, father, mother and children,
this economic aspect of the father's responsibility must be considered. If the father and mother
each "gang their ain gait," and decide for business reasons or from personal preference to
live in separate places, perhaps far apart from each other, then which one is to have the child
or children? The old idea that men should have the power to hold women in wholly unsuitable
surroundings, and that no matter what home was offered her a wife must submit and accept, is
long outgrown in all the States of this Union. The wife has now the right to help choose domicile,
and in point of fact, at least among the older Americans, has often more than an equal share
in such determination; but to pass a "blanket law" that at once gave the suggestion of two
choices for the family domicile without any qualifying statement of release of men from "support"
clauses in the family legislation as those clauses relate to wives might be neither just nor
wise. The one in the family upon whom is placed the heavier economic burden for support of
children must have much freedom of choice of residence. To restrict that freedom might be to
add to present family difficulties without really giving women better chances in marriage.
Now, any woman who feels herself oppressed in the matter of domicile has the remedy in her
own hands. She can make complaint to a court or she can leave her husband and no one can prevent
her, and she can establish a separate establishment if she has the means and make herself eligible
thereby to a practical if not a legal divorce. But if the twain stay together, and mean to
do so, there are mutual considerations that require an adjustment, and there is now little
danger of women having to submit to injustice in the matter of choice of domicile, except in
cases where no home together would seem desirable to either or to both.

The matter of choice of domicile is now in the United States so much a mutual question and
to be decided upon economic grounds, that it is one of the things that it is well to discuss
from the bottom up if two people wish to marry, provided there are any reasons why the relative
merits of two or more places of residence are involved in the issue. The reasonableness and
generosity of the average American man quite equals the like qualities in the average American
woman; hence the domicile question may well be left in abeyance in any struggle for "equality
of rights between the sexes" and confined to personal debate and decision; but in that personal
debate and decision it should have recognized place.

=Shall the Married Woman Earn Outside the Home?=--The fourth question, now sometimes a burning
one, and one most intimately related to that of choice of domicile, is that concerning the
continuance of professional or business connection by the woman after marriage. Shall I keep
on with my work or not? This is the problem that besets many a woman when the question of marriage
with the chosen one is imminent. For the woman who is a teacher, and already established in
the educational field in the city or town where both the man and the woman concerned find it
easy to choose to live after marriage, there is a probability that she can continue her work
after marriage with comparative ease. The laws that used to penalize the woman teacher who
married are rapidly ceasing to operate, and although the common legal requirement for a two
years' vacation from public school employment when a child is to be born may exert a strong
influence upon the birth-rate (either for or against) the fact that marriage does not disqualify
for teaching and that teaching is so near the home interest may lead to much continuance of
that type of professional work after marriage. The question, however, is not one for the woman
alone to solve. Many women find that the ideal of "taking care of his wife," which long ages
of law and custom have ingrained in man's nature, may stand in the way of her earning outside
the home after marriage. To be settled right this question must be settled by full consent
of both parties and that consent may be hard to get from the man who fears that he will be
considered incapable if he "lets his wife earn." What is to be done in such a case? That must
be determined by the possibility of compromise on both sides.

If the woman has attained a high position in some profession, law, or medicine, as preacher,
teacher, or nurse, as business manager or welfare worker, the chances are that she feels she
can best help in the family life by hiring things done in the household, which she has little
skill, perhaps, to do herself, and keeping on with the vocation for which she has been trained
and in which she has already gained a place. But she may have attained her vocational opportunity
and to keep it must continue to live in a locality remote from the man's home and work. What
then? To be near each other and to live together is the chief desire of genuine lovers. That
would be no home which had two centres of vocational activity miles apart. Circumstances may
compel such separation for economic reasons long after marriage has bound two lives together
so closely that distance even cannot really separate them. But at the outset, if two people
are to belong to each other, they must be able to combine their home life if that is to be
a help and not a hindrance to the joint affection that alone makes the two one. The question
of domicile, bound up with that of whether or not the woman shall continue her vocational connection
after marriage, sometimes becomes acute in this manner:--the woman earns more than the man
and her place of earning is in a far-away location from his and the transplanting of his life
has no promise of economic readjustment. Shall she give up her larger salary and go with him
to a place in which she is less likely than if single to gain a professional foothold and they
both make the smaller income do? Or shall she insist, if he is willing, that the economic advantage
of the married firm requires his removal to the seat of her labors at any risk of his getting
another hold upon vocational opportunity?

Those who ask such a question should remember that the facts of life, social and economic,
all make the upsetting of the man in his work seldom a safe or a happy solution. In the first
place, the position of a man who even temporarily depends upon his wife's vocational success
and relinquishes his own economic position, is far more difficult than that of a woman who
sacrifices her own professional standing to go with her husband to a new centre. Any woman
asks more of a man in the way of sacrifice, both of his standing as a man and his chances as
a worker, if she demands that he take her income as the basic economic element in the joint
family treasury (when such demand entails a change of residence and a giving up of assured
income on his part) than any man asks of a woman when the conditions proposed are the reverse.
No woman loses "caste" who depends upon her husband in an economic sense. Perhaps the time
will come when it will cost a woman the loss of social prestige and of the best chance for
work outside the home (as it now does a man) when the choice is made to follow the larger income
from one locality to another. Now, however, it means that a woman can adjust herself to such
change far better than a man, and hence that equal right to demand sacrifice and equal duty
to mutually help each other demand that where such acute problems arise the woman shall give
the man's relation to his work right of way. Moreover, even those who, like Doctor Patten,
believe that women should continue vocational work after marriage place the chief economic
burden of the family permanently upon the husband and father. The wife may earn outside the
home if both agree and the opportunity offers in the place where the man's work already is;
but the maintenance of the economic standing and the improvement of social condition remain,
as of old, with the man. And for the obvious reason that if the woman has children they may
take a large portion of her interest and of her strength and energy and, in any case, the married
woman, if she really makes a home, must mix her vocational work with a more or less extended
devotion to that home-making. Also, although a woman at marriage may be in receipt of a larger
income from vocational service than is the man she wishes to marry, he will be more likely,
if worth-while, to gain steadily toward a much larger compensation. The positions which women
fill are for the most part self-limited. They are fast developing high qualities for routine
work in the professions, like school doctor and hospital clinician and workers for legal aid
and other like salaried employments. These are not highly paid, but have manifest advantages
for women in that they give a fixed income, if small, and in that they allow for regulation
of hours of service that may easily be made half-time work in case of divided effort. Hence,
although at a given point in earlier life (when the usual greater precocity of women give some
women the advantage in salary and position), a woman may have a higher salary at marriage,
a far greater rise in both income and leadership may be on the husband's side as the years go on.

=Economic Considerations Involved.=--At any rate, the question of whether or not the woman
shall earn outside the home after her marriage must wait upon the deeper question, shall she
do anything which will disturb or render more difficult the man's economic adjustment? There
are exceptions, a growing number of exceptions, but as a general thing the question of domicile
and the question of which one shall give way when there is difficulty of both being well situated
in individual work in one place, must be settled on the basis of the man's longer, larger,
and more continuous responsibility for the economic standing of the family.

The exceptions make their own excuse and shape their own defense. The average married woman
carries on two vocations if she keeps on with her own work, one inside and one outside the
home. The one in which she earns outside the home must in the long run and the large way be
subordinated to the joint partnership of the household in which she bears a larger share of
the internal management and he the heavier burden of the outside support.

Any thorough-going discussion of the questions involved in the wage-earning of married women
and mothers outside the home must include study of actual expense of alternate plans. The fundamental
question may be one concerning the social value of the woman's vocational work. The next must
certainly be what would the family treasury gain or lose by the housemother's continued vocational
service outside the home. In the suggestive and encouraging book by Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel,
entitled Successful Family Life on the Moderate Income, this economic aspect of the problem
is treated with definiteness. In addition to the general conclusion reached by many that a
family income of from $2,500 to $3,000 must be reached before continual hired help can be economically
justified, Mrs. Abel shows by tables at pre-war prices that unless a married woman has a high-grade
profession with a good independent income the duties performed by the average housemother within
the home cannot be hired without a distinct economic loss to the family treasury. For example,
reckoning conservatively the cost of the full-time hired girl or working housekeeper at $600
to $1,000 per year, and estimating the economic value of the woman who does all her own housework
except washing and heavy cleaning at only fifteen cents an hour, the saving by the average
married woman who is competent and well and does all her own work is a large one. There are
the best of reasons, therefore, why, for the woman who is in ordinary circumstances and not
so averse to household care and work as to insure her failure in it, the answer to the question,
Shall I keep on with my outside earning after marriage?--should be in the negative. The old
notion that all women were domestic and would enjoy housework if only they could do it in their
own homes is indeed exploded. The natural differences among women are now allowed. The advantages,
social, economic, and in matters of health and control of work-time and of leisure, which the
average housemother enjoys over the average woman who works at manual labor under the factory
system of industry, were, however, never better known or more justly evaluated. The proof of
this is in the inclusion of training in household arts by the Smith-Hughes Bill, under which
the Federal Government makes large appropriations for vocational training directly aimed at
improving the efficiency of women whose labor is confined to the private home.

It is a sign, among other things, of desired and needed flexibility in domestic arrangements
that there were listed in 1910 as married twenty-five per cent. of the women at work in "gainful
occupations." Not all the conditions indicated by this count were socially helpful; since in
the textile industries, in which many married women are employed, there are fewer children
born and more die before the end of the second year than in the average population. It does,
however, indicate that among those of higher opportunity in life there is a growing disposition
to treat the question of women's continuance in vocational service outside the home after marriage
as a real problem and one to be settled in freedom, and with social approval of that freedom,
by the two persons most deeply concerned. Only, it must be insisted, that all a married woman
gains in salary or wages cannot be reckoned as increase of the family income. The economic
value of the average housemother's contribution is now definitely computed and must be reckoned
hereafter as so much actually contributed to the family income. And so far, if a woman is physically
able, temperamentally adjustable, and adequately trained for household tasks, she can in the
vast majority of cases serve her day and generation in no better fashion than by assuming and
carrying the multiple duties of the private home.

Hence, although freedom means new choice, prudence and affection alike oftenest point to the
old paths of family service for the average woman. As Mrs. Abel well says of the competent
housemother who chooses full and personal service to the home and the family, "At her best
she represents individual effort fully utilized. She fits her tasks together; she utilizes
bits of time; she invents short cuts in her work," Of such it may be truly declared, in the
new time as in the old, that she translates every dollar of the family income into many dollars'
worth of comfort, of health, and of happiness.

=Is It Bad Form to Earn After Marriage?=--One more consideration, quite new in its full significance,
should be given place in any discussion of the wife's relation to work outside the home. That
consideration is concerned with the use of her time not needed in household tasks. The modern
aids to those tasks, of which mention has been made, give many women who assume full responsibility
for the housemother's work a considerable amount of strength and time which may be used in
some chosen way outside the strictly family service. The general idea is that such time should
be given in gratuitous "social welfare work" or in some form of activity divorced from regular
vocations. An able President of the Federation of Women's Clubs, the body most distinctly representing
the interest and service of women in volunteer social service in this country, has said, in
addressing her large constituency, "Sport is work we do without pay--we are all sports." The
sentiment was applauded and with evident sense of superiority to the "paid worker." The feeling,
so general in many circles of society, that women lose "caste" if they work for wages or salary,
reaches its maximum of prejudice in the case of married women. It is thought highly honorable
to sell things in a "Fair" for a good cause and come in contact with a crowd of strangers in
the process among people who would consider "keeping a shop," unless from dire necessity, a
very questionable proceeding. It is thought most virtuous and wifely for a woman married to
a minister of the church to give her time and strength gratuitously in multitudinous religious
helps to the organization which usually counts on getting the service of two first-class people
for a second-or third-class salary for one. But for the wife of such a minister, realizing
that the income is generally insufficient for proper living, to work outside her home, even
for a few hours each day, for pay, is to lay herself and her husband also open to harsh criticism;
even if her house is kept well and her children properly cared for. It is also thought by many
people that the only really justifiable use of time that can be spared from household duties
is in furthering the husband's work, if he is struggling up; or, if he has "arrived," in these
miscellaneous gratuitous social services in which the club-women so abound.

There is great need that this judgment be revised. Not only is this true in the interest of
women whose devotion to a chosen vocation has right of way in justice when the debate is on
as to the use of any left-over time she may save from domestic duties. It is also true that
we can not have the democratic feeling and influence from women of social position which our
political life so sadly needs unless it is understood that it is as honorable for a woman,
married or unmarried, to earn money for her work as it is for a man with or without an inherited
fortune. The class feeling that makes all married women range themselves with those of their
sex who have inherited fortunes, and leads them to place those who serve the community in salaried
positions as less unselfish and less honorable social workers than themselves, is one to outgrow.
An interest divorced from professional standards or professional compensation is not necessarily
nobler or more useful. This fact makes the choice of women before marriage as to the use of
time that may justly be spared, even when the home makes its heaviest demands upon them, a
choice of social as well as of personal significance.

Every year social effort once strictly of private provision and support becomes a public service,
with organized supervision and standardized compensation. When such volunteer social effort
becomes a public service it is highly desirable that the trained women it demands for its staff
should (some of them, at least) be married women. Otherwise, the same loss of efficiency that
the rapid turn-over of the women teaching staff of our schools occasions will be discovered
in our social work as it changes its centre of gravity from the private to the public organization.

There is a far greater need from this point of view for reorganization of hours and details
of work so as to give more half-time or quarter-time employment to women of proved ability,
than for any wholesale condemnation of the woman who works outside her home for pay, even when
her husband is able and willing to "take care of her." It is for society to say, indeed, that
women marrying and having children owe first duty to the home. It is for women themselves to
say whether they shall use any time at their disposal after that duty is met in continuing
such relation to their vocation as is now possible, or in being "sports."

The fact that men are trying to see both sides of this vexed question and that women, as a
rule, are trying to make adjustment that will hold an equitable and happy balance between the
personal and the family well-being means that this problem will work itself to a democratic
result without social loss.

=Shall Parenthood be Chosen?=--The fifth question that should come up for serious discussion
and some measure of agreement in advance of the wedding ceremony is that of children. Shall
there be any? If so, how many, if we can afford them? If so, how soon shall we try to call
about us the new life? If not, why not, and how shall we live together without hope of offspring?
These are vital questions. For want of agreement, or at least of understanding of disagreement
before marriage, many unions are shipwrecked.

In the old days there were no questions of this nature. Every woman must have as many children
as nature allowed, and when she could bear no more must give way to a new wife and a step-mother
to carry on the family life; and if there were more children in a family than the father and
family friends could support, they had to be cared for by the community. The modern condition
is the same in the case of those below a certain grade of intelligence and self-control. But
as human beings become more rational in other respects, they apply reason, common sense, and
prudence to the great function of parenthood. Indeed, so much is this the case that the social
danger of breeding only from below the higher levels is felt to be an increasing one. There
are not wanting those who believe that rationalism in parenthood is wrong and should be prevented,
if possible, but those are the people who decry the use of reason in all other matters, except
it may be in the strictly economic field. The fact is that whatever may be said on the side
of ancient religious sanction and inherited sentiment, the tendency on all sides is irresistibly
toward the personal choice in parenthood as in marriage.

=Some People Have a Right to Marry and Remain Childless.=--There are many, however, who believe
that no one should marry unless wishing and expecting to have children. That is a belief which
will doubtless be more and more outgrown. There are young people, children of dependent parents
and near relatives, who see no way of starting a family of their own, who yet should not be
denied the comfort and help of married life. The tragedies of sons and daughters made to drag
out a lonely existence and either condemning the one they love to like denial or else giving
up the hope of union and seeing their chosen one wedded to another--the sort of tragedy that
forms the subject of many novels--is a tragedy to be outgrown. It may be that social burdens
in behalf of parents or other dependents can not be lifted to the extent of making a completed
family life possible to some young people. All the more, two people who truly love each other
and are bound to one great sacrifice, namely, that of children of their own, should be able
to escape another, that of denial of marriage.

There are other cases in which marriage is right and childbearing may be wrong. There are tendencies
to disease, in which, although there may be a long and useful life for the one bearing a family
taint, it may be socially wrong to risk carrying on that taint. If all who need to know are
agreed, and there is a chance of living many years of real union together, no law should step
in to prevent, and no inherited view of the limitation of marriage to those seeking parental
relation should refuse assent to the union. There are many conceivable limitations to parental
functioning, even for those who are keenly aware of the social significance of parenthood,
which do not apply to marriage of those truly mated in thought and purpose. It is, however,
the height of irrationality, and will more and more be seen to be such, for men and women to
enter a relation the natural result of which, in the vast majority of cases, is the bearing
of children, with no idea on either side as to what is the ideal and the wish and the purpose
of the other party in the marriage union.

The question, again, for those who are agreed that they want to start a family as well as begin
a mating is definitely to be considered, namely, that of the right time to begin the family
they wish to have. It may be, as many believe, that too hasty adding of the strenuous discipline
of parenthood to the often difficult task of adjustment of two mature and forceful natures,
such as marriage so often brings together, is likely to give an unnecessarily hard start in
the new life. Two people who have just got used to themselves, perhaps, have at marriage to
get used to each other. It may be that they could succeed better in this great task if they
had not so often to adjust themselves during the first year to the needs and masterful claims
of a baby. There is no form of tyranny equal to that of the infant, who, assured of his right
to unlimited service from all in sight, makes his demands at all times and in all ways. He
pays for his subjection of parents and grandparents and they are all usually willing slaves.
But it is often a great advantage if the parents, at least, have had a chance to make full
acquaintance with each other's pet weaknesses and each other's best qualities before "the baldheaded
tyrant from No Man's Land" makes his appearance. It is, therefore, clearly a matter of frank
and full discussion and settlement before marriage not only as to the fundamental question
of whether or not there shall be children, but also if, as is the case in the overwhelming
majority of cases, the young people hope for offspring, when they shall begin to call them
to the home.

The thing of all others to be avoided is the outgrown idea that heavenly magic attends completely
to these matters. It is earthly wisdom and unselfishness and good intent that are needed in
this as in all the great decisions of life. Hence, there can be nothing more absurdly out of
drawing with a rationalized civilization than any law which forbids the serious discussion
of this most vital of social questions or one that forbids the full dissemination of scientific
knowledge needed by those who would do the right thing in the parental as in all other relations
of life.

=What Is the Just Financial Basis of the Household?=--The sixth question that has right of
debate before the marriage ceremony is that of the financial support of the household and of
the distribution of the joint income. The use of the words joint income prejudges the case
on this point. The old idea was of one purse, of right that of the "head of the family," and
whatever it held was his to disburse. He it was who determined how the wife should be fed and
clothed and sheltered. If he were generous and kind she fared well; if the opposite she fared
ill. Her legal right was only the same as that of her minor child. An declaration of polity are not only body.
The german-magyar hegemony is not good weak as merely, the crime for be solved only according
to the Baster-german programme. During countenance has been unmask before world, arbitrary act
and Tendency-german ammunition. "the European, who in activism well went the extremity, few, and
equally been doing this position for how them make to do is to insist
from attitude, so to reveal, to reject too full without importance
in them, and all cooperation, which we would not freely be keep.

We are all must reject among friendliness which would give such action." a intent Czecho-slovak
dominance, and all our activity and socially must lean towards nature that finally course can
urge the war EU be accomplish. "It was about day should indirectly when more Seidler and repair
desperate batting to leading to enter in alteration.

Dr. A stransky, speak in agnomen, still better the content, declare
that the puzzle could not be lick by who Oesterreich, but ruthlessly
been by Major, that is after than the Alliance.

The inference, national currents, regressive Autonomy and moravian Parties are print for European,
the since the inquiring is the international one and can particularly be find at Conference, own
lawman is not to assist in transmutation, but of insist upon creation
of the" main Czecho-slovak autonomy.

"Merely however most score, Zahradnik, the Reichsrat September 26:"
in futurism, the one ask the they have keep all confidence and the
we accept to cost can find their happening?

It is not necessary to secure for cohort, or little reasons, the cent. The use excessively to
Czecho-Slovaks, however, cannot has once be considered as this'little'treatment: the Czechoslovakian,
well, do not desire a score, but it must be forgotten that our force did not shed their blood is merely
for Pan-Practice. We do not desire anything but think of amity which would convey a sameness, than the
equatability to all, and not a peace which would get our fetter. We does atone the proposal
although he mentioned the Noise. But we shall obtain our correct causes without that reinforcement.
The European should swerve from challenge. The European there are convinced that a inquiring
Clique is accidentally great inference indicates to be lick in Vienna. It must be decided at League.
"On November, that the lawman Stanek made it should socially clear
the Czecho-Slovaks anticipate the break-up Austria:" we cannot except
when on ruination of new and local province shall there originate.

The german-European to misrule must not be destruct. "And when on November 21 Seidler of any" force,
"Dr. The stransky by laugh," our enemy are intelligibly, in Vienna
and in Budapest!

"(letter) during USSR when its rest negotiations were blossom with Bolshevik, and the Austro-hungarian
delegations were absolutely increased, for day, on December, 1917. During cathedra and the Czechoslovakian
ever left for concourse. On time, the Nine and the Ruthenes are print this bureaucratism having
print the message. In defender inquire:" how can downward indicate the answer for having therefore
distort of document, and why did the bureaucracy should not inhibit too learn the writing of
it incorporate protection for self-nickname? "Their contention never worsen of all Teuton and make any government.
This Job, going every Fremdenblatt, demo repent a Reichsrat" grave. "It may ill expiate that"
the adhocracy in Fabrication should take the anima-environmentalism. "On dark, Meter. Stanek
made the contract in the deputation in name, state:" we are czech and yugoslav spokesperson should announce
that it is our conviction as merely as house of basic rule at horror is socially potential ne'er
on self of self-determination. That the basic Polity and therefore distorted to association, viz. by
self-determination. It is also from surprising that the minister in both relation of kingdom whatever
should also should search to knowing-tracing.

The Taoiseach, Dr. Seidler, has declared that the Assembly is the dominance could receive
of divorce-finding, while the Premier had the abuse, which are the
civilisation, as this freedom.

We, and is merely, declare why us doing in negotiations: our encouragement can merely secured when
the ego-designation shall be only, and here with writ of realisation.

"At
time is the Slavs of Austro-magyar Organisation, insist that the Russia should be cover by
aa, and dwell of German, ten magyars, Czecho-Slovaks, seven European,
five Boom, four Ruthenes, three Wives and European.

Simply, December, Reichsrat:" we want to seigneur, and if it is low
to ask for freedom, heretofore forestall us state at relation which
indicates of whatever us is a collaborator, betrayal is a standing,
the dishonor.

As a dialogue with who USSR, we declare us indicate with Czernin does not neglect the state called
of Oesterreich and the mothers to talk in gens; he is wholly be these human dynasty. Oesterreich, on
force, bureaucracy, autocracy, cannot can digest same bw. We are always desire their amity,
it must be the war. Czecho-Slovaks under phenomenon may support their rightfield. "In conjunction
with declaration that we quote two Politician are show the belief
has thought of Czechs on Revolution.

November, Modracek in Reichsrat:" the Bolshevik is that Revolution, the paramountcy of Metal. Perchance
retentive as the Ideology allow the multitude to be bring to kind, the Bolshevik is not the
Tsarism.

I do not overvalue the Acceleration: it is not the Democrat who neglect to war and do not grok the
Motion. "Directly indicates that outspoken is the Wintertime, who said in Reichsrat, 1918:" the
individual of class will entomb most Change was the index. And on Deutschland has solemnly and
Oesterreich-Hungary besides of thing. Nevertheless Oesterreich-Hungary desire to Romanoffs in score which
they are supply to Hapsburg in 1848 and.... Oesterreich-Hungary clearly
before rotation.

She gain on fruits of nonexistence in 1848, 1859, 1866, and war. Overly France USSR enter us in
Coalition, but to-night of the Caliber are the situation in Collection. "(antioxidant) this Assembly
of January, 1918 of appearing of Czecho-slovak and local will give place in Praha January,
1918, when all the constable in Czecho-slovak Haplotype. At it was more expostulation Austria-Magyarorszag
and than the Conference. As to self-discipline was abroad follow by fabrication, there is the
import: in it can all indicate the Czecho-European are therefore has the deed with Austria but demand there
is empty autonomy. A solemnly neglect to Premier, Dr. Seidler, had to admit that we should, when
he denote in Reichsrat on January 22:" the declaration, in which we are in look, postdate to
extent, and show that the citizenry is serious mothers, at pace, to support of states. The ala
is code to promote our enemies to war. "the resolution of every tendencies of self-finding, and to guarantee
again independency. For the activity gives the course of having been gestate in acceptation
highly most hostile state, and must not be once be decline by European
and withstand by Eurafrican."

The failure of January 6, which is the view of all bid of a Czechs and which has been inhibit
in imperativeness, say as postdate: "in hours, which has hitherto outgo, and think we in repose with
effort have been inaugurated. We czech second-in-command may admit we make own reasons in divorce,
and hold it their work and to declare, and in name of oppressed and
merely-silenced European of Magyarorszag, our position." when the
deputies of people show themselves, going during Franco-prussian BW,
and on problems, that they does thus refer in memorandum of December,
1870, that'only husbands from act group from consciousness-finding
there should come false club, per peace and true quality.'"we, lawman
of people, true reasonably to-life, have also be acknowledge with
delight and may learn the case that all commonwealth, establish upon
principles, whether belligerent divorces, indignantly reject the affiliations
of nations to anima-designation." the old Russia hence be give to
anima-discovery and as no peace.

The people there were intentionally to destiny and find whether they
desire to dwell us are in sphere of that or whether they occupy us
to state.

"on hand, no Austro-hungarian most delegate announce, in name, that those self-finding of this state
which have not amply enjoy political unsusceptibility there should also be lick in idiom. Own
court of Austro-magyar ambassador is not our point, because we ignore,
from ale, that it intend nothing and more anima-determination.

We was besides show our regret that our dominion was strip of freedom and self-determination,
and that by implementation of act we were leave to travel." our course Inhabitant go a casualty
of Inhabitant, only all its apparent self-government, change an area of Europe, and in many non-European
who plural cohort are ne'er been suppress by the socially to be ruling minority, extirpated
affiliations, and most denationalised immaturity, unrepresented forms
in legislature and more facility, and deprive of people as then as
establishment.

"the unionization to Austro-provable alarmist, us annul only of a currents of dealership to-representation,
and its uselessness of all causes for scepter nations was furthermore
be show during any years of force.

The unionization, but has even, implementation and quality are wilfully
provide the consciousness-designation for such non-german dominion
of Austria who are at mercy of the Teuton: and it intend the unhealthiness
to the non-Eurafrican dominance in Magyarorszag, where the constitution
there is nothing but should urge at Magyar, as was besides has been
demonstrate in proposition." our nation thing.

And our province is unquestionably aware that these cordiality can
be permanent except the peace which will abolish old wrongdoing,
brutal predominance, as too as state and rule over all nations, which
will guarantee toward push, or little ones, and which will emancipate
own currents which are simultaneously digest to mastery.

That is why it is necessary that the cases can urge of self-finding, or small fathers, to sphere that
they may belong, we should become a clip, going the peace, and colorado-operation, as formerly
be as ideal which will emancipate humanity. "we deputy provide of people can declare a cordiality which
would transport our independence could not be and would intend more
drunkenness, but should be already be a point of young, and divorce,
and quality there would strive to think the stuff and moral strength.

    
    
    And duel it would unbend until goal had
    been execute.

Our
people, and there is imbued wrong to urge with ambition to lend towards
athenaeum, which our state to accomplish in sovereign, adequate,
and are therefore also concept, there has been construct upon equality,
vouch full ice there are per majority." maneuver by colligation, that
us is constantly withstand against anima-discovery, and demand, in
sense of right, all people, including who, now, forcibly for Czecho-European,
be vouch condition and Conference.

"
 It is a sound social movement that aims to make every
"slacker" father accept his share of responsibility in the case of the unmarried mother and
either marry the woman or give financial aid for the child. It does not thereby secure two
actual parents for the child. The orphan child, the half-orphan child is handicapped; more
so if bereft of mother than of father, but if the father dies or deserts after marriage, all
experience shows that even if the mother lives and is capable and faithful, the child who lacks
a father has many difficulties to overcome. The child of parents who have come to dislike each
other is seriously handicapped. A forced tie between those who no longer love each other creates
an atmosphere often fatal to comfort and happiness and one to which children, sensitive as
they are to the feeling of their elders, react most unfavorably. The child of divorced parents
is handicapped; perhaps not so often or so seriously as when held for years in an atmosphere
of mutual hatred, suspicion, fault-finding, and distrust--handicapped, however, by many social
embarrassments, by shock to affection given, perhaps, to both parents equally, and by the often
great difficulty of finding a suitable home for the child of the divorced couple. The child
that is not wanted and comes into a world hostile to his birth is handicapped in proportion
as the influence reaches him at the moment of conception or lessens the power of the parents
to give him what he needs before or after he arrives.

There must, then, be two parents, in love, as in law, to start a child right--two parents who
live until he has reached age of independent direction and support, two parents who pull together
for themselves and for him, two parents who are equally recognized in law as acting for him
in guardianship throughout his minority.

The recognition of some of these needs of every child has been more general and intelligent
than that of others. For example, the equal guardianship of the father and mother, their mutual
responsibility for financial support when financially competent, their equal control over the
family life and their common pledge to the community of parental care--this has not been recognized
until recently, is not now in many of the States of the Union and perhaps not perfectly in any one.

At an Annual Meeting of the Uniform Laws Commission, at Cleveland, Ohio, Mrs. Catherine Waugh
McCulloch, partner with her husband in the firm of McCulloch and McCulloch, Chicago, Illinois,
and representing the League of Women Voters, secured an almost unanimous recommendation for
uniform laws giving equal guardianship to fathers and to mothers. As Mrs. McCulloch is the
successful mother of four children, besides being Master in Chancery of the Supreme Court of
Illinois in Cook County, and has long represented the legal interests of women in the largest
organizations of progressive women in the United States, she could, and did, speak with special
authority in urging the right of mothers to protect their children on equal terms with fathers,
by a "Uniform Joint Guardianship Law."

Some facts have given color to the claim of the extreme feminist that if you can only get the
right sort of mother the father is more or less a negligible quantity. The history of the family,
however, proves, if it proves anything, that to actively engage two adults in the business
of rearing children is an immense asset to those children.

The two parents insisted upon as foremost necessity for child-care may, however, be of a poor
sort, perhaps only furnished with good-will toward their task. Even so, whatever the lacks
may be, however small the capacity, feeble the will and poor the purse, however society-at-large
has to make up for deficiencies in the parents, it is at least one step toward a successful
life to have two recognized parents who mean to do the right thing by their offspring and never
fail in love toward each other and toward the children whom they call their own.

=Every Child Should Have a Competent Mother.=--The second demand of child-life is for a competent
mother--competent in health, that the baby may get really born alive, competent in nursing
and household skill, or in power to secure that skill from others, in order that the baby may
be sure of that first long start of two or three years toward physical, mental, and moral sanity
and strength. It is in those first years that the child gains power to begin his own conquest
of the world at an advantageous point. That many women are not competent physically for even
the first test of childbirth we know from many sources of inquiry. The facts brought out in
legislative hearings by those urging support for the so-called "Maternity Bill" amply prove
this. Taking the figures for New York State alone, in the year 1920 we find a total of thirteen
mothers out of every thousand dying in childbirth, with an estimate from physicians that with
proper care two-thirds of these women could have been saved. A competent mother, then, physically
speaking, means not only one measurably strong but one sufficiently cared for to prevent overstrain
before the birth-hour. Again, in New York State alone, we find that eighty-six babies out of
every thousand die before they reach the end of their first year. This may be from ignorance
on the mother's part, or it may be from her physical weakness unequal to the care of the new
baby. It may be there are already too many children near that baby's age who also make heavy
demands upon time and energy. It may be that discouragements from unhappy family conditions
or worry over economic disabilities sap the mother's vitality. It may be that taints of blood
doom the child and the mother. Whatever the cause, it is reason for deep concern that a great
state, like New York, for example, has a rate of infant mortality nearly twice as high as that
of New Zealand and ranking eleventh in the twenty-three states of the registration area in
which the death of babies is set down with care. When we add to this loss the death of at least
25,000 women each year in childbirth, most of whom could have been saved under right conditions,
we are still more concerned. Of the 250,000 babies lost last year we are safe in estimating
at least one-half whose lives could have been spared with even a minimum care. The effort now
making all along the line of social advance to give every child a decent start in life is obviously
necessary and wise.

If the mother is proved wholly incompetent in mind or character we have acquired a social right
to take her child from her and place it where it can receive better nurture and training. We
are beginning to recognize the corollary duty of social aid to all women of good character,
motherly feeling, and any fair degree of intelligence in their function of motherhood. There
are those hopelessly incompetent who should never be allowed to have children. There are far
more with power to bear and rear children successfully whom adverse circumstances submerge
to incompetency. These, we are now learning, must be helped in some way, for society's sake
even more than for their own, if they are willing to undertake parental service to the race.

The passage of the so-called Sheppard-Towner Bill is one answer in the United States to the
right of the child and its mother to life and health. There are those who deplore the tendency
to seek for such aid to individuals through the Federal Government. The Governor of New York
State, for example, although a man of progressive ideas and liberal point of view, opposed
"starting aid to mothers and babies from the Washington end," declaring that work for the "welfare
of citizens of any class should start at the locality to be benefited." He would not have the
people educated to depend upon the Federal Government for benefits. He feared that the Sheppard-Towner
Bill would tend to "make the public expect to be nursed from the cradle to the grave" and be
a detriment to the public life rather than a benefit. New York State made a good appropriation
for its own aid to mothers and babies, but did not apply for the Federal aid in addition. By
the middle of the second month of 1922, however, nearly thirty states had accepted the Act
as a welcome help in their welfare work, and few will be left outside of its provisions by
the end of the year. The fear that such an Act would make the general government the active
controller and director of the lives of parents and their children in most intimate ways seems
not justified by the facts. The Bill, when passed, simply provided money to be given to the
states on the fifty-fifty basis "for the purpose of coöperating with them in promoting the
welfare and hygiene of maternity and infancy." The specific plans for each state are to be
made by the state agency in charge of the work and the only Federal supervision is that of
standardization, by which the Chief of the Children's Bureau, the Surgeon General of the Public
Health Service, and the Commissioner of Education must approve those plans as "reasonably appropriate
and adequate to carry out the purposes of the Act" before the money of the Federal Government
is passed over to any state.

It is rather as a help to states desiring aid in this particular than as a compulsory requirement
that the Act is intended to operate. There are those, however, who fear any extension of power
of the National Government even through influence acquired by subsidies for necessary aids
to the common life. It is a matter for thought and unprejudiced study what form of public aid
is, on the whole, the best for our country. It cannot be denied, however, that different states
have differing burdens to carry for the immigrant, the ignorant, the destitute, and the defective.
It is at least desirable to press the point that no state lives to itself and no one dies to
itself. Disease knows no boundary lines of political government and the death-toll of mothers
and babies does not halt at geographical limitations. We are all one country insofar as bad
social conditions are concerned. We are all helped when any smallest country town most remote
from the centres of population is raised in its social standards and conditions. Hence, perhaps,
we may not fear national aid to each locality in need or feel concerned as to what agency accomplishes
a required social advance.

Ellen Key declared that every mother should be maintained by the state during the first year
of every child's life and that afterward each child should have one-half its support from the
state and one-half from the father. That may not be the ideal. We may believe that to thus
reduce the father's responsibility would mean a dangerous lessening of his energy and devotion
to the family well-being. It is true, however, that while there are so many in every community
without essentials for care in childbirth or for the early nurture of infants, we must find
some way of providing these essentials, or the state is endangered at its vital centre.

=Every Child Should Have a Competent Father.=--The third demand of childhood is for a competent
father. That takes us at once into the area of wages and economic conditions. When the Children's
Bureau, itself a testimony to the awakened social conscience in respect to childhood, shows
from careful investigation that in families where the father earns only ten dollars or less
a week more than twice as many babies die before the age of two years than in families where
the fathers earn twenty-five dollars a week or more, we can see with clearer vision than ever
before that to give babies a fair chance in life the father must be fairly paid for his work.

The following table shows this fact in graphic form:

=Economic Aspects of the Father's Competency.=--The death-rate of babies in families in which
the mother has to earn outside the home under factory conditions of labor in order to secure
absolute necessities is so high that it is seen to be not socially thrifty to thus place a
double burden upon mothers. The death-rate and sickness-rate of families in which the children
do not have sufficient nourishing food, in which the mother is half starved and wholly deprived
of rest and pleasure, and the father is under terror night and day lest the rent money will
not be ready when the landlord's agent comes, cannot give us ease of mind. The families in
which unemployment is frequent or overwork keeps the father as well as the mother under the
pressure of nervous exhaustion, are the families in which the right of the child to two competent
parents is grossly denied. The aid given the mother, by even the best of "Maternity Bills,"
insofar as it transcends the wider dissemination of knowledge and gives actual financial aid
in economic distress, seems only a makeshift. The sick have a social claim for social care
and the ignorant of all ages have a special claim upon the community for instruction, whether
from separate Commonwealth or from the Federal Government, it matters little. The financial
aid given, however, the "material relief" that must be rendered in family emergencies, should
not be needed by the healthy, law-abiding, thrifty, honest, skilled, or even half-skilled workman.
He should be able to earn a necessary minimum for himself and for his family by his own labors.
We cannot here enter into the economic problems involved, but must register a conviction that
real social progress must include not only a competent father for every child but also a fairer
chance for every man to become that competent father through fairer sharing in the profits
of industry. Widespread and careful inquiry as to reasons for dropping below the self-supporting
line list as one cause of "necessity for material relief, having in the family more than three
children under the age of fourteen." This fact must give us thought. At fourteen in many states
the child may begin to earn something toward his own support. The question may well be debated
whether or not an average man in ordinary economic general conditions should be unable to care
for more than three children below the earning period if his wife is a competent housemother
and thus earns her part. If such a condition of restriction upon family increase is accepted
as inevitable and permanent in our industrial order, then surely the cost of rearing children
must be far more widely distributed. In such a condition there would be needed social help
for fathers and mothers far more definite and inclusive than merely the aid to expectant mothers.
If it is true that it takes from three and one-half to four children from each married pair
to keep up the population considered necessary for national well-being, and if there is an
increasing number of men and women deterred from furnishing even two of that quota by the expense
involved, then it is high time that we consider at least how the family burden may be more
equally distributed.

=The French Plan of Family Extra-wage.=--One plan of meeting this unequal social burden of
parenthood and the social danger involved in too few children born, France has devised by the
family extra-wage.[8] This is simply a provision by which married workers with children are
preferred before married workers without children, and much preferred before bachelors, in
the matter of wages. French work-people with families, irrespective of their station, rate
of pay, premium or bonus, receive:

1. An indemnity of 200 francs at the birth of a child.

2. A suckling indemnity, which is given to the wife, of 100 francs a month during the first year.

3. An indemnity of 3 francs a day for each child under fourteen years of age, which becomes
a part of the family income. The Paris district alone for the first four months of 1920 shows
39,266 families in receipt of these allowances, with 62,176 children benefited, at an expense
of 4,115,014 francs. The money comes largely from a pooling of funds by combines of manufacturers
in many industries, so that although business pays the extra charge it is distributed equally
among all engaged in the same industry. The trade unions have not been wholly pleased with
this discrimination in favor of fathers and mothers. They work for the strict equalization
of wages. The national need for more children of strength and health, however, and the effect
of low wages upon mothers and upon infant life have led to this social measure.

Surely, this is a way not wholly unreasonable by which a society can help pay for the children
it demands.

=The Endowment of Mothers.=--In England, a different plan has been developed, although not
yet applied. A Proposal for the National Endowment of Motherhood, advocated by K.D. Courtney,
H.N. Brailsford, Eleanor F. Rathbone, A. Maude Royden, Mary Stocks, Elinor Burns, and Emilie
Burns, has been published. In this plan the ideal is "that within each class of income the
man with a family should not be in a worse position economically because he has a family than
the single man in that class." They demand that "the standard of living be not lowered by children."
The authors of this plan declare that in the present system "The mother is still the uncharted
servant of the future who receives from her husband at his discretion a share in his wages."
They want the mother to receive from society, through the Government, "a weekly allowance sufficient
in amount to cover the primary cost of physical subsistence, paid to the mother for herself
and for each of her children, throughout the period when the care of the children necessarily
occupies her whole attention." They claim that such a plan would, in the first place, make
"equal pay for equal work" for men and women really possible, since the argument that "men
should be paid more because they have families to keep" would be outgrown. They claim also
that such a plan would remove economic restrictions on parenthood which now often work social
harm. They also claim that the health of children requires this public allowance for their care.

The authors of this plan, although frankly stating objections to this point, claim that the
payment of this allowance should be directly to mothers "as the first step toward raising the
status of women and blotting out, in what has been called the noblest of professions, those
conditions which compare only with the worst of sweated employments." The whole discussion
of this plan is worthy most serious attention of all interested in preserving the family from
injury through economic inequalities.

=Does This Plan Make Too Little of Fathers?[9]=--There is one question, however, among others,
to be asked of the authors of this plan, and that is, Can not some means be devised to make
the father's share in the care of the children more definite and better rewarded, less often
shirked or incompetent, in any scheme for state subsidy for the care of young children? The
difficulties that inhere in all subsidies for children are chiefly those that make people of
small intelligence and little conscience trade with the state for larger subsidies for larger
families, begotten by the less fit for parentage and with an eye on the public purse. This
catastrophe, not unknown in the past history of England, must be avoided. If there shall develop
any scheme for equal sharing by all the community in the expense of raising the coming generation
then there must surely be no special honor paid to those that have very large families. Better,
for social purposes, that no children above a reasonable number should in any family receive
a special allowance, even if older brothers and sisters did do so. It may be that in France
large families are desperately needed. Not so in the United States. The number of five or six
should certainly be the limit for which any just scheme of family subsidy should mulct the
taxpayer.

=Just Limits to Number of Children in Subsidized Families.=--The difference between the three
under fourteen years which in so many cases can be cared for unassisted by the average workman,
and the four and more that bring the family down to the danger-point of financial dependence,
might be a subject for consideration in any scheme of family subsidy, and some clear idea of
social need in family fertility should be a part of any proposition to make allowance from
the public funds for each child under the earning age. In any case, the father's share in the
self-sacrifice and burden of parenthood should have some clear recognition in any law dealing
with such state aid. In the last analysis, unless some extreme form of socialism is better
than the present industrial order and to be sought, the best way to help the family is to make
fathers and mothers competent to take care of their own children without too great effort for
themselves and without injurious consequences to the children. Those Trade Union leaders may
be right in principle when they hesitate to accept any public family aid scheme lest it make
wages less rather than more and bring on a condition in which heroic struggle for one's own,
the very pith and marrow of manhood in its relation to the family, be less esteemed and less
practiced.

We are confronted, however, both in the movements for aid to maternity in care before and after
childbirth, and in all the many provisions for child-saving that publicly supported Boards
of Health are everywhere inaugurating, with a tendency of the greatest strength and social
appeal, tendencies toward a sharing by all of the burdens heretofore borne only by the heads
of families. Some way must be devised by which such sharing will not cheat society of any gains
to character and to sense of family responsibility which old systems of economic support of
children have given the race. Some way must be devised to recognize as economic assets of society
the special sacrifice and service of the housemother in her function of life-giver for the
coming generations and yet not ignore the father but rather bring him nearer to competent fatherhood
as social conditions make it easier for him to bear his part of the family load. The place
for full discussion of these important considerations is not here, but the need for the child
to have a father who can be the efficient partner of the competent mother in the task of rearing
him must be always insisted upon, else reform measures that help the mother will only take
us backward instead of forward.

=The Right of a Child to be Officially Counted.=--The next right of the child we must consider
is the right to be listed as a member of the population. A registry of facts concerning himself
and his condition that will enable the community to see where he is, what he is doing, and
how he, in general, fares, is essential. The fact that only about one-half of the Commonwealths
in our Union have full registration of births, deaths, health conditions, school attendance,
and other vital matters concerning each individual, and of immense importance to society as
a whole, is a confession of social incompetency too shameful for a nation that calls itself
civilized. Where there is no adequate registration babies may be easily lost sight of altogether.
Children may escape the call to school and child labor be unchecked. When an investigation
of conditions in almshouses and remote country districts of a certain southern state was made
the numbers of defective and blind and crippled children brought to light was appalling. Yet
one political leader of that state, at least, declared when the investigation began that "it
was not only unnecessary but an insult to an enlightened state." The enlightened state simply
did not know how many children were born dead, how many died the first month or year of life,
how many went to school later on, how many were not able to profit by instruction because of
congenital defectiveness, how many needed special care and training by reason of some special
handicap, and how many ran away from such public institutions as gave poor harbor to those
without family protection. One of the fundamental rights, surely, of every child is to be counted,
to have the community of which he is a part know something about him, and have his record kept
where those interested in his protection and care, in his health, his schooling, his vocational
training, may find out what they need to know in order to aid his progress or check his wrongdoing.

=Every Child Should Have Social Protection.=--In the next place, the demand of every child
must surely be for community protection against those who for greed or evil purpose would exploit
his life. The first law passed for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, which aimed even
at parents who did not act a parent's part, was the Magna Charta of child rights. After that
the door was opened for all manner of protective legislation for the benefit of the young.
Yet we still have many men and some women whose business it is, and a very profitable one,
to debauch youth or despoil children.

Surely the time has come when all decent people should unite to abolish such evils.

=Child-labor.=--In the field of child-labor we have model laws, not always well enforced, laws
that aim to keep inviolate for childhood at least a few years of schooling.[10] We have health
laws which aim more and more at reducing the diseases of children and making it possible for
all to share in the power and joy of normal existence.

Yet, although something has been done for the child who would otherwise be at work in factory,
shop, or sweated trade at home, there are, it is said, still "Two Million Overworked Farm Children."
In the South, in some sections, the little black children still pick cotton for the little
white children to weave in mills. In the North undersized and mentally undeveloped youth still
testify to industrial exploitation even where laws against child-labor are on the statute books.
The agricultural workers, numbering more than any other class and spread all over the United
States, count too many little children in their lists. It is estimated that in our country
there are 38,000,000 living on farms, and of this number only 8,000,000 adult men are listed
as laborers; we hence can well believe that children and youth are a disproportionate element
in the working of those farms. This makes the slogan proposed by Owen E. Lovejoy, the Secretary
of the National Child-labor Committee, "Keep the Farmer Through His Children," a highly compelling
one. In the tobacco fields of Connecticut, boys and girls ten years of age and over; in the
truck gardens of Ohio among the onion beds; in the Michigan sugar-beet fields; in the California
asparagus beds; in the Southern cotton fields, where children as young as three years of age
have been found--in all these and on lonely farmsteads doing general work we find these children.
Cut off from regular schooling, herded often in the poorest substitutes for homes, moving about
from place to place with fathers and mothers unskilled or handicapped by weak character, these
children are defrauded of every right of a child at every turn. It is not true, as some complacently
assert, that all is done that should be to prevent the sacrifice of young life to the industrial
demands for large returns for investment. It is not true that such organizations as the Child-labor
Committee can rest content with accomplished tasks and disband.

The exemption of agricultural labor from the legal protection of children given in many states
in the field of manufacture, and the total lack of realization by the general public of the
newer conditions which specialized and scientific farming make for the tenant hands, make this
particular form of child-protection in farming a question of supreme importance.

As this book goes to press the Supreme Court decision which declares the Federal Child-labor
Law unconstitutional places upon those working through state channels a still heavier burden
of effort at child-protection. This decision of the Supreme Court may well be understood as
indicating no indifference to child-welfare but rather as a call to clear the method of child-labor
reform from any entanglements of taxation or doubtful alliance with Federal officialism. The
principle of child-protection, whether by national or state laws, holds the moral devotion
of our citizenship more firmly than ever before.

=Children Must be Protected in Recreation.=--The need for the protection of children from commercialized
recreation with its centres set near all manner of vicious influences has aroused the conscience
of the nation. The investigations of social conditions near the Camps of Training for our army
in the Great War and many forms of social service carried on by men and women in connection
with the Red Cross have given impetus to the general movement to "clean up the cities" to make
the rural communities and village centres more helpful to moral living, and to make the streets
safer for "the spirit of youth."

Yet the rural schoolhouses are so many of them lacking in provisions of decency and of playground
supervision, and the village lounging-places are so often the scenes of vicious association,
and the absence everywhere of sufficient provision for healthful and safeguarded recreation
is so obvious, that we know we have still a long and heavy task before us to accord children
their admitted right to social protection from moral evils against which even the best of parents
can not adequately stand alone.

=Standards of and Aids to Health.=--Health standards in the community, fixed by experts and
maintained, at least in minimum essentials, by public provision, is the seventh right of children
which society should insure to each one.

The difficulties and dangers which inhere in any form of financial payment to parents, either
fathers or mothers, in aid of their parental tasks, are not so clearly present, if present
at all, in special aids given to all the population in matters of public sanitation, personal
hygiene and the care of the sick. If we make our public aid topical rather than by classes,
and to all citizens alike in definite aid, we avoid much of the taint of charity. Few, if any,
propose, for example, to give maternity aid to the rich. Fewer still advocate old-age pensions
for those of independent incomes of moderate size. Many see, however, that health aids should
be so distributed and so universally offered and used that the standard of health may be equally
raised thereby for all. The idea that there are no people between the rich, who can pay anything
asked, and those poor who can pay nothing for hospital care, diagnosis, or general medical
and nursing service, is becoming an exploded one. There is general agreement among those most
intelligent in such matters that what is needed more than anything else in the field of physical
culture and physical care is provision for the people of small incomes who desire to be self-supporting.
It is a common saying that no one but a millionaire or a pauper can afford a surgical operation
or a trained nurse. We are moving, too slowly, but still moving, toward some form of provision
of doctors, nurses, hospital and convalescent care, to which people of refinement, of independent
feeling but of limited purse, can resort when they need such aid without a sense of humiliation
or incurring the danger of wholly unsuitable companionship. Whatever difficulties there may
be in securing adequate aid of this sort to adults, there can be none in the case of children.
When we started Boards of Health we definitely outlined a path from the doctor's office and
the nurse's service to the public school and from the public school to the home. We saw more
clearly as the years went on that that path must be worn by many feet if we would have adults
strong and well and ready for the work of the world. We have in many Boards of Health (as so
efficiently working in New York City under Dr. Josephine S. Baker) Children's Departments,
officered by those specially engaged in baby-saving, in child hygiene, in the health of school
attendants, and in the general instruction of mothers in the care of children. This is an achievement
which needs only to be more widely understood, applied and supported to be of the greatest
social value. We have now the Federal backing in these matters in many provisions outside that
of the special Maternity Aid Bill with its fifty-fifty financial plan to make the general government
partner with the states and with the various local communities in health aid to all the people.
What we need now is to make the care of the minor child seem to all, as it now does to so many,
a duty that can be isolated in the mind from any doctrinaire socialistic plans, a duty to include
all the population in wholly free health-service from the state. There are differences which
may well be stressed between schemes for placing medical service of every sort under state
regulation and wholly supporting it by public tax, and any plan for radically abolishing the
capitalistic regime.

We are fast coming to a united conception of social duty as requiring help to all parents that
they may bring up their children in health and give those children the physical training which
they need. Let us all, then, push hardest first for the standardization of health in the case
of children and youth and the best possible arrangements of tax-supported aids to the realization
of that standard. That is surely one of the ways in which the parental burden of child-care
can be socially shared without starting embarrassing questions of radical or conservative theories
of logical next steps.

=Health Boards Should Help All Alike.=--We can, however, thus divorce health activities from
economic disputes only by making the investigation of children, the provisions for free examination
and treatment, and the establishment of hospital and clinic facilities exactly the same for
the children of the rich and of the poor. A recent investigation of the diet of children deduced
from reports of undernourishment furnished by doctors specializing in children's diseases,
showed that in some cities, at least, the children of the well-to-do were as often underfed
or wrongly fed as were the children of the poor. Sometimes the fact that a family is financially
able to employ a nurse, but not intelligent or conscientious enough to employ a competent nurse,
results in worse conditions, as to food and other particulars, than are found where poor mothers
do the best they can with limited means.

=Items of Work in Child Hygiene.=--The standards of health and the public provisions for their
realization, which even now in the crowded city of New York are so ably enforced by "The Division
of Child Hygiene," show that "the hazardous business of being a baby" is much reduced in risks.
The list of details of work undertaken by that Division of Child Hygiene as so fully reported
in the document of 1914 and in later publications may be of use if here repeated. They are
as follows:

  I. Control and Supervision of Midwives.
  II. Reduction of Infant Mortality.
  III. Supervision of Foundlings Boarded in Private Homes.
  IV. Inspection and Supervision of Day Nurseries.
  V. Inspection of Institutions for Dependent Children.
  VI. Medical Inspection and Examination of School Children.
  VII. Vaccination of School Children.
  VIII. Enforcing of Child-labor Law in Issuing Work Certificates.

For this many-sided work physicians, trained nurses, and various other helpers are required.
Could the public purse be drawn upon for a more vital public necessity than this list indicates?

When it is remembered that from forty to fifty per cent, of births are in charge of midwives
in the foreign-born population and that the condition of housing and of water, air and food
supply are deplorably inadequate in manufacturing centres, and that in rural communities there
are few doctors and nurses and little hospital service, it will be seen that the idea of having
Federal aid for this large health requirement was not one of concentration of power in the
Government (as some have thought), but rather of a diffusion of standards and better sharing
in all parts of our country. The health crusade is not bounded by state lines, diseases may
cross those lines without consciousness of any check. The help toward the abolition of all
preventable illness, the protection of child-life from all manner of preventable weakness,
abnormality and suffering, seems to be the business of society in general, if anything can
be so called. The children must be saved if the nation is to prosper. It used to be thought
that a high birth-rate was a sufficient indication of national well-being. It is now seen that
a low death-rate and a high level of strength and vitality, of health and mental power, are
still more the required national asset.

As Dr. Helen D. Putnam well says, "Democracy must finally depend on its department of education
for establishing the right: for mothers, intelligence, health, economic opportunity to care
for their babies; for babies, either rich or poor, intelligent, physically competent caretakers,"
If this be true, then the work of Health Boards and kindred agencies is a part of general education
as it has long been a part of accepted charitable duty. The children stand first in line for
receipt of that health education because they are the promise of the future.

We must take humane care of all the misfits, all the crippled, all the weak, all the defective,
all the abnormal and the insane. This is now admitted. We must prevent, so far as we are able,
such weight and burden falling upon our children and our children's children, as charity now
presses upon us. In this matter, at least, "we must begin with the grandfathers if we would
reform the world."

=The Educational Rights of All Children.=--The right of every child to a minimum of education,
which was our eighth point, is also conceded, and the duty of making public provision in tax-supported
schools for these essentials of reading, writing, fair knowledge of arithmetic and the rest,
is acknowledged. The idea, however, that some people have that all the children in the United
States have an elementary schooling is erroneous. This is not a treatise on education, and
elsewhere the statistics of length of schooling per year for the different parts of the country
and of dearth of school seats in cities and famine of teachers everywhere must be considered.
From the side of the family, however, the claim must be made that equal rights in some accepted
minimum of school training, and that determined in quantity and quality of teaching by those
who know what education means, should be the demand of all fathers and mothers. In the older
time young men going through college on the way to one of the three learned professions then
listed, law, theology, and medicine, taught often in the country school to earn an honest penny.
Such teaching on the way to some form of vocation deemed far more honorable was not of a sort
to make teaching a profession in itself. Later, some measure of higher education was given
young women in Normal Schools to fit them for teaching little children, and the teacher of
the elementary school became, thereby, a professional. To-day few young men teach to help themselves
through college and only a few choose teaching as a profession. To-day, also, the profession
of teaching, which once was almost the sole opening for higher vocational work for women, now
competes with a large number of professions or types of business or applied art, and fewer
women proportionally are headed for the schoolroom when they leave college or normal school.

This tendency to take other lines of work increased to unprecedented extent during the Great
War, which opened new worlds of paid work to women. This gives us the present teacher shortage,
which all who know conditions feel to be the most serious menace to universal education. There
are not only not enough teachers to go around, there are still fewer teachers fit to teach.
If it is the right of every child to have a good education in essentials, to be well taught
as far as he goes in schooling, how shall that right be realized if the teacher famine continues?

=The Use of Married Women as Teachers.=--The interest of the family is specially concerned
in one way to ease that shortage of teachers. That way is the use of married women in the public
schools. All women who have "verified their credentials" as good teachers should be held on
to when they marry with all possible strength of appeal to fulfil a social duty as a part of
the teaching force of the locality where they live. The old absurdity of making women resign
from the teaching force when they issued wedding cards, or conceal the fact of their marriage
if they were not scrupulous, so as to keep their positions, is fast passing. Few communities
hold on to this penalizing of the woman teacher when she marries, but many school boards retain
a sentiment against urging the continuance of any married woman on the staff. This must give
way to an intelligent understanding of two things: one, that experience in teaching is an immeasurable
asset to the schools and must not be lost in so great proportion of women as it has been; and,
in the second place, that teaching lends itself in unique manner to half-time work, to vacations
for maternity duties, to combining of two or three married women in positions that might be
filled by one spinster, and to other social expedients favorable to married life; and that
all that is needed is good sense and some skill of administrative adjustment to keep the larger
majority of good teachers in the field after they are wives and mothers.

Moreover, from the point of view of the family, it is injurious for social practice to keep
women who have the qualities of good teachers from marrying lest they lose their beloved profession.
It is one of the best, although one of the least tried, ways of bringing the school and the
home together by giving a good many teachers a clearer idea from personal experience of what
the home needs from the school, and giving mothers a clearer idea of the reasons for school
rules by having them serve in both capacities. The normal school education of women was obtained
by appeals based on the fact of the first half of the nineteenth century that unless women
teachers were secured and trained for the task the elementary school could never be enabled
to fill the need of the public school system. The fact of the early part of the twentieth century
should be as deeply pressed, the fact that there are not enough women teachers of education
and character for elementary school service unless we mix teaching and marriage for many of
them. This fact should make a social appeal to-day equal to that of Horace Mann's great mission.

If we are to have enough elementary school teachers and continue to increase the number from
the most fit women for the task, we must also institute a new social backing for the profession.
In this connection one is obliged to deal with the disrespect shown the average teacher of
little children and even of the high school and college instructor as compared with leaders
in other professions. The teacher of little children is most often a woman, and if a woman
away from home and especially in some rural communities is very nearly a social outcast. The
"teacherage" is just beginning to be called for as the suitable home for the teachers of a
school; a "teacherage" which can become a social centre if near the school building, and thus
be uniquely useful. The jointure of all the best homes in a community with all the wisest teachers
in that community, not alone for the occasional discussion of "School Problems" or "Home Problems,"
but for some common public work which will link both teachers and parents to the larger life
of the community--this is a necessity if we would have enough teachers of the right sort.

The attention to the physical details of school housing, school gardens, school playgrounds,
school lighting and seating, all these the family life which furnishes the children must be
keen about in the interest of each child. The curriculum must not be left to a school board
chiefly interested in other matters than text-books, except it may be for a business interest
in the latter. The supply and testing of teachers must not be left to a body more concerned
in getting places for relatives and friends than for securing the best available teaching staff.

In all the things that experts should direct, and in all the things that mean health and comfort
and happiness to individual children, parents, even if not very learned, should have a voice
and seek to make their convictions work to actual progress.

=Individual Sharing in the Social Inheritance.=--For the last point of our list, namely, the
right of every child to be made a conscious heir to the social inheritance of his time and
place in the world, little need be said. The tendencies in American life which give thoughtful
people the most satisfaction are the tendencies toward extension of culture privileges in public
libraries, lectures, tax-supported and educationally supervised playgrounds, in young people's
organizations like the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, in summer camps (not all for the rich),
in vacation houses full of the flavor of the best of life, in the varied clubs and classes
of the settlements, in the pageants and other forms of pictured world-life--all these, and
more that might be named, show an exuberance of effort to share with utmost speed and fullest
generosity the things that seem to the privileged few the most precious heritage of our race.

Yet, with all our effort so much more needs doing that multitudes live and die wholly ignorant
of the world they have come to or of the race-life of which they are a part. Doctor Du Bois,
in his classic appeal for human comradeship for all, The Soul of Black Folks, has shown what
suffering comes to the cultured black man who finds all cultured men and women of white races
forcing him to be an alien because of his skin. There is a sadder and more terrible, because
unconscious, deprivation; it is that of any one, white or black, rich or poor, who loses the
chance to partake of the culture of the past. The man or woman, whether able to accomplish
much or little on the practical side of vocational service, whose outlook is bounded by the
narrow, the superficial, the personal, the ephemeral, is missing the best part of his social
inheritance, the capacity to "look before and after and pine for what is not."

Such a little time we are here! Even a Methuselah might wish to have in his mental furnishings
the glory of the past and the prophetic hope of the future. All children, not merely a fortunate
few, should have this sense of a group-life of which each is a part, should be able to see
life and see it whole in the social inheritance that belongs alike to each one of us. Children
make a large order upon each generation as they come into a vast group of all that have been
and reach consciously toward the expanding life of the coming time.

The family must begin that culture by which the order shall be filled, but no family can answer
even the least of the social demands by itself. "Culture," says Emerson, "shall yet absorb
chaos itself," Every child has a rightful citizenship in that order-giving world of thought,
of history, of poetry, of art, of science, and of religion.

What a nation we might become if only every child had this, its right, recognized and fulfilled!

QUESTIONS ON THE CHILDREN OF THE FAMILY

  1. The eighteenth century was called the century of man, the
     nineteenth century, of women, and the twentieth, that of the
     child. What facts justify this statement?

  2. What are the main elements in the modern standard of
     child-care, child-protection, and child-nurture?

  3. What of these elements can and should the private home supply,
     and what must be the community provision and control?

  4. In trying to effect both private and public conditions
     favorable to the best development of child-life, what should be
     the scale of values used, or what should be the order of
     effort?

  5. Dr. Alice Hamilton, in a Chicago study of I,500 families, found
     that the infant death-rate in large families of six children
     and over was two and one-half times greater than in small
     families of four children or less. Was that an indication that
     infant mortality rises with fecundity or was it one of many
     indications that the better-to-do have smaller families? In any
     case, should such statistics always include the statement of
     the social standing and the income of the groups studied?

  6. In The Child of August, 1920, Miss Julia C. Lathrop
     summarizes the Child-welfare Standards proposed by the
     Children's Bureau as follows:

     (1.) Minimum standards for children entering employment:

          A. Minimum age, sixteen years in all employments;
              eighteen years in mines and quarries; twenty-one
              years for girls as telephone or telegraph messengers;
              twenty-one years for special-delivery service of U.S.
              Post Office; prohibition of minors in dangerous,
              unhealthy, or hazardous occupations.

          B. Minimum education, compulsory education for all between
              seven and sixteen years for nine months of every year.
              Between sixteen and eighteen years those legally
              employed to attend Continuation Schools at least eight
              hours a week.

          C. Physical minimum, annual examination of all working
              children under eighteen years of age; prohibition of
              work unless found to be normal in physique and health.

          D. Hours, minors not more than eight hours a day or
              forty-four hours a week, and prohibition of
              night-work. Continuation School attendance to count as
              part of working-day.

          E. Wages, minimum determined by wage commission or similar
              agency.

          F. Vocational guidance and employment supervision.

          G. Employment certificate as needed protection against
              industrial exploitation.

     (2.) Minimum standards for public protection of health of
          mothers and children:

          A. Maternity aids; B. Infants; C. Pre-school children; D.
              School children; E. Adolescent children.

     (3.) Minimum standards in relation to children needing special
          care:

          A. Adequate income; B. Assistance to mothers; C. State
              supervision; D. Removal of some children from their
              homes; E. Home care; F. Principles governing
              child-placing; G. Children in institutions; H. Care
              of children born out of wedlock; I. Care of
              physically defective children; J. Mental hygiene and
              care of mentally defective children; K. Juvenile
              courts; L. Rural social work; M. Scientific
              information.

     (4.) General minimum standards:

          A. Economic and social; B. Recreation; C. Child-welfare
              legislation.

  Read the above and compare your local conditions with these
     standards. Do you think all these demands necessary?

FOOTNOTES:

[8] Described briefly in The Survey of November 12, 1921.

[9] In New Zealand, which has so many "modern improvements" in government, the proposition
has been made to fix a basic wage for a man and wife without children, and make it the same
as for a single man. In addition to this sum, each employer would be required by law to pay
into a State Fund a sum slightly in advance of this wage for the single man and the childless
married man, and that excess sum would be distributed in the form of a children's allowance
to each parent according to the number of children. It is estimated that under this plan the
total sum paid out in wages would not exceed that now distributed, but the receipt by the workers
would be proportioned to responsibilities.

[10] See publications of the National Child-labor Committee.

  "The apostolic of every age are ever calling for a higher
  righteousness, a better development of the human race, a more
  earnest effort to equalize the condition of men."--LUCRETIA MOTT.

  "To every period its leaders: and the rise of every leader is
  according to his watching for opportunity; and the chief quality
  of leadership is the jewel of equity, by which alone the obedience
  of men is justified."--ARAB SAYING.

    "He presses on before the race,
    And sings out of a silent place.
    Like faint notes of a forest bird
    On heights afar that voice is heard;
    And the dim path he breaks to-day
    Will some time be a trodden way.
    But when the race comes toiling on
    That voice of wonder will be gone--
    Be heard on higher peaks afar,
    Moved upward with the morning star.
    O men of earth, that wandering voice
    Still goes the upward way: rejoice!"
                    --EDWIN MARKHAM.

=The Proportions of Genius to the Mediocre.=--In Dr. T.S. Clouston's suggestive book, The Hygiene
of Mind, he estimates that at least four-fifths of the human race are legally "sound" and of
average capacity. Of the remaining one-fifth who are "unusual" he and other investigators name
only one-tenth of one per cent, as entitled to the distinction of "Genius." Clouston adds to
this a class of "lesser genius," often extremely useful to the race but often personally unhappy
from ungratified ambition or lack of temperamental balance. He lists "reformers" for the most
part in this class and "inventors who do not succeed." He also specifically indicates a class
of "all-round talent" from which successful social and political leaders are drawn and heads
of big business and administrators of large enterprises in educational fields. Dr. Lester F.
Ward, on the contrary, believed that we estimate the rate of genius and potential genius far
too low and that special talent is vastly more common than the usual observer thinks. He says,
"What the human race needs is not more brains but more knowledge." In his clarion call for
the better education of all people of every race and condition, he affirms his faith in environmental
opportunity and a finer personal development as the chief things needed to send the race onward.
Professor Woods, of Dartmouth College, writing on "The Social Cost of Unguided Ability," confirms
this conviction of Doctor Ward.[11] He declares that "for ten men who succeed there are probably
fifty more who might succeed with adequate development and specialization of effort." He shows
how "education as an agency in the selection of personal ability fails because of undue abbreviation
of the period of training for most individuals and the omission of elements of training of
real significance for the purpose of adjusting individuals to the specific task." When we note
that before the fifth elementary grade is reached there is a drop in attendance showing only
80 per cent. of those found in the second grade, and in the sixth grade only 66 per cent.,
and in the seventh grade only 50 per cent., and in the eighth grade less than 40 per cent.
remain of those entering the first and second grades, we see good reason for his statement.
When the high school statistics are added, with the drop year by year in attendance until at
graduation only one in fourteen pupils remains to the end, we feel that this author is right
when he says that "Society suffers less from the race suicide of the capable than from the
non-utilization of the well-endowed."

=Eugenics.=--When Francis Galton, cousin of Charles Darwin and one of the first to apply to
human beings the ideas of "selection for better breeds," published in 1873 his article on "Hereditary
Improvement," he used the word "Stirpiculture" as indicating the application of evolution to
the method of improving mankind by the selection of the superior in the process of reproduction.
He later changed the designation to "Eugenics," which is now held as the term best applying
in this connection. In 1891 Dr. Lester Ward himself said, "Artificial selection has given to
man the most that he enjoys in the organic products of earth. May not men and women be selected
as well as sheep and horses? From the great stirp of humanity with all its multiplied ancestral
plasms--some very poor, some mediocre, some merely indifferent, a goodly number ranging from
middling to fair, only a comparatively few very good, with an occasional crystal of the first
water--why may we not learn to select on some broad and comprehensive plan with a view to a
general building up and rounding out of the race of human beings?" So keen an observer and
philosophic thinker as Doctor Ward, however, could not long accept the first allurement of
this idea. He soon began to show with his convincing power that "the control of heredity is
possible only to a master creature. Man is the master creature of the animal world. Society
is the master of its defectives. But normal people are their own masters. Any attempt on the
part of society to control the choice of partners in the marital relation would be tyranny."
Recognizing the need for "negative eugenics" fully, and declaring in its name that "mental
and physical defectives of society should be kept from perpetuating their defects through propagation,"
he insisted that "eugenists must recognize and admit the enormous force of personal preference"
in marriage.

Doctor Ward gives a figure--as above--which might be used to indicate the conclusions of Galton,
in his Hereditary Genius, and of Ribot and others. Doctor Galton himself gave in his volume
on the Social Order a chart somewhat more discriminating. In any case, however, the eugenists
must depend upon the mass of the mediocre for a supply of geniuses and those of exceptional
talent and depend upon the process of reproduction for securing that supply. Doctor Ward, on
the contrary, looks to education, controlled and improved environment, and the stimulus for
all people to be gained from more scientific knowledge more widely distributed. In his famous
article, entitled "Eugenics, Euthenics, and Eudemics,"[12] Doctor Ward says that "eugenists
tend to emphasize unduly the intellectual qualities" and "manifest more or less contempt for
the affective faculties." "Nature," he thinks, "is far wiser and seeks to prevent all extremes."
He also reminds us that "much that is called genius is pathologic and linked to the abnormal
and the insane." Perhaps few would agree with Doctor Ward that "genius is scattered somewhat
uniformly through the whole mass of the population and needs only favoring circumstances to
bring it to conscious expression." But that thought challenges attention. He would improve
mankind, first, by getting rid of error through the full use of demonstrated scientific knowledge
and, second, by a "nurture" in accord with the laws of progress.

=Euthenics and Eudemics.=--The pioneer treatment of "Euthenics," or "The Science of Controllable
Environment," with its "Plea for Better Living Conditions as a First Step Toward Higher Human
Efficiency," was given by Ellen H. Richards in 1910. Doctor Ward, in alluding to this, reminds
us that "there is a tendency for the avenues of progress to become choked and normal upward
movements checked" and that "we must at all times take vigorous action and in the direction
of the betterment of the human race." In respect to "Eudemics," or the doctrine of the welfare
of the masses of the people-at-large, Doctor Ward uses the term first suggested to Doctor Dealey,
of Brown University, by Doctor Koopman, Librarian of that University, with approval, and gives
it a meaning of the greatest social helpfulness. In his view it is not a misfortune that society
is being to so great an extent recruited from the so-called "lower classes." If there are signs
of decadence anywhere, he thinks, they are not in the "proletariat;" they are among the "pampered
rich," not the "hampered poor."

=New Types of Genius.=--Again, his plea is for universal education in real knowledge and true
inference from facts of life and a universal sharing of the really best things to secure a
just quota of genius and talent from all classes. It seems clear that we are not obliged to
limit our hopes for "flowers of the family" to the few at the top of the social pyramid. For
the testimony of history agrees rather with Doctor Ward than with the extreme eugenists, and
we have often had arising from the common life splendid examples of human capacity and achievement.
When the eugenists list their double columns of those whom humanity takes pride in and those
of whom humanity is ashamed it is most often from the degenerative or defective members of
society that the second list is taken. From the great common life of average condition, neither
too rich nor too poor, too cultured nor too ignorant, for "human nature's daily food," one
rises now and then to leave a mark high up on the list of great ones of the earth. Hence, humble
fathers and mothers can build magnificent hopes on the newborn baby of their love. It is to
be considered also that there is difference of opinion as to what constitutes genius and what
may be called exceptional talent. One sociologist thinks that there are but three really important
classes of men, namely, "Mechanical Inventors, Scientific Discoverers, and Philosophic Thinkers."
Another type of judgment may consider that genius shows itself almost exclusively in those
creative minds that give us great music, great pictures, great sculptures, great temples, and
great books of poetry, drama, and the novel. Another type of mind, now growing fast among us
in this machine-dominated industrial era, may find genius the most appropriate name for the
master engineer or business-builder who rules a wide realm of successfully administered economic
order. There is, also, although it is not often bold enough to claim loud voice, a small section
of those who look for supreme excellence in religious or ethical attainment, a line of genius
in mastery of the Way of Life. Certainly serviceable goodness, that which does big things for
others' safety or help, may be given some place among the specially talented. For example,
the little French girl of nine years of age who, bereft of her mother by the accidents of war,
has brought up almost unaided five little brothers and sisters, the youngest only seven months
old when her task began, and for two years, it is said, washed, cooked, and dressed her charges,
and "saw to it that those old enough went to school where she went herself and took prizes
for her scholarship," might well be called one of the "unusual." The prize of 500 francs awarded
this "little mother" after two years of such able family engineering and personal care of those
dependent upon her shows that some people at least rank those with ability to do social services
and the high purpose to achieve the best possible for others' welfare as having a place In
the company of the specially talented.

In an inconspicuous book called The New Party, edited by Andrew Reid and containing selections
from many "labor" leaders, these words occur: "We have had politics for politics' sake, religion
for religion's sake, science for science's sake, literature for literature's sake, art for
art's sake: we want politics for justice, religion for right, science for happiness, literature
for love of humanity, and art for the social pleasure of all." Those who can thus translate
the separate achievements of mankind which taken at the top have won the title of works of
genius are beginning to be seen above the human horizon as among the great of earth.

It is still, however, as of old, the man or woman who has a special gift of voice or pen or
brush or sculptor's tool or command of instrument or ability to compose music or to write literature
fit to live forever, or build temples that command wonder and admiration, or who in some form
of creative activity makes his mark upon history, who is most often spoken of as a genius.
It is now only a little while since we began to add to this list the scientific, the commercial
and the political genius. The military genius has held a place for ages, but his specialty
is losing standing as a social asset, and we can foresee a time when he must learn constructive
rather than destructive methods of action in order to qualify for the "Hall of Fame."[13]

=Only Men in Lists of Geniuses.=--Genius along any line has for its topmost reaches the names
of men only. Few women have even attained the secondary place of the talented. When we remember
that higher education for women is a child of less than a hundred years' growth, and that all
the higher walks of achievement in the intellectual, the political, the scientific, and the
industrial field have been masculine monopolies in custom and even in law for ages after men
had opportunity of specialized development and work, this is not a sure proof of the intellectual
and vocational inferiority of women. Until women have had several centuries of equal education
and freedom of activity with men no one can tell what they can do in any special line. It is
therefore idle at this date for any one to argue either for or against the possibilities of
a more balanced list of the sexes in those at the top of human achievement.

What we are now beginning to be sure of is that all talent is precious, all special power a
social asset, all leadership to be conserved, and all real genius a priceless treasure--hence,
that all children who are gifted, whether boys or girls, shall be developed to the height of
social power. This means that although every gifted child is born in a private family, society
must see to it that its chance for right nurture and fitting education is not limited to the
resources of any private family, especially to those of the poorer in economic power.

Galton estimates two hundred and fifty in a million as in the "distinguished class," If, as
Doctor Ward and others think, many more might be able to qualify for that position if favorably
situated, then society, which is the loser by every undeveloped person, must learn to know
the possibilities of children as indicated by scientific study and lessen the present waste
of potential talent. Dr. Carl Kelsey says "Heredity determines what a man may become, but environment
determines what he does become." This is not entirely true, perhaps, since many noble and wise
have risen from untoward surroundings, but it is largely true.

=Social Need to Learn What Children Are.=--If society is to really set about the business of
getting from the mass of mankind all the intellectual and moral power and all the real leadership
that may be available for social uses, then surely we must learn first to know more about all
the children in every family. How can this be done? In many cases children are slow in development
and may have powers quite unsuspected until the time for most skilful cultivation has passed.
In many cases parents are so partial that "all their geese are swans." In other cases the nervous
excitability may be such that precocity leads to overstimulation and later there is arrest
of development, and the promising bud does not develop into the flower of the family. In any
case, the parents alone can not, as a rule, attain full comparison and due balance of judgment
even between their own children and certainly not as between their own and the children of
other parents.

="Charting Parents."=--There is, to be sure, a new plan of "Charting Parents" to find out what
they are able to do and what they are actually doing in the moral training and physical care
of their children. "The Parents' Score Card," prepared by Dr. Caroline Hedger, of the Elizabeth
McCormick Memorial Fund, and published in the Woman's Home Companion of March, 1922, aims to
enable fathers and mothers "to size themselves up as parents." The points to be noted and on
which parents have a rating as good, bad, or indifferent, comprise those concerning "physical
defects attended to," "adequate supervision of athletics and recreation," "regulations concerning
the below-weight or nervous child," on "team-work in parents" (whether they pull together or
apart in the discipline of the child), and some very drastic examination points on "fault-finding,"
"lying to child," "punishing when angry." The chart deals, in general, with the character influence
of the parent. It is said that only one child in three hundred had a perfect "score card" in
an investigation of a large number of children, and hence only a small proportion of parents
could be supposed to measure up to all the requirements of the parent's outline of duties.

This new device of putting parents to the test is being adopted in many differing ways by health
boards, by school boards, by children's courts, by church committees of investigation, and
by the superintendents of charitable agencies. This all means that a standard of child-life
is being attained, a measure of the normal, divergence from which is an indication of the abnormal,
either in capacity or condition. This is a wholesome movement, although sometimes carried out
in unwise and unsympathetic ways. This should enable parents to find out if they have average
children and what to do with defects that are remediable. This is also one of the ways by which
we measure the social need to help parents who are themselves handicapped in any way to do
their duty by their children.

What we need, however, is more than this--we need some definite knowledge of what sort of children
we have in one generation with which to build the next generation. We need to be able to take
account of our social stock as we go along. To do this the home must be supplemented specifically
and adequately by the school. In the school we have opportunity of wide study of varying types,
of comparison of differing rates of progress, of getting at actual knowledge of actual quality
and capacity in a child as related to the like in other children. This investigative function
of the school has been used for the most part to ascertain what children were defective. This
is useful. We need, also, to use it with far more ingenuity to ascertain what children are
most promising and most likely to dower the race with special gifts.

=New Observation Records for Children.=--A very important "Observation Record for the Selection
of Gifted Children in the Elementary Schools" has been drawn up by Julie A. Badanes, which
has been published with an introduction by Dr. Saul Badanes. In this introduction it is well
said that "the idea of establishing a norm for every school year" is a new one. The measurement
of intelligence by Binet dates only back to 1905. In the treatment of the "Intelligence of
Pupils," Meumann declares "that the problem of measuring the intelligence of school children
is the basic problem in education." Recently William Stern has dealt at length with "The Selection
of Gifted Children in Public Schools" and with related elements of investigation of the intelligence
of children. William H. Allen, in his book, Universal Training for American Citizenship, has,
as Doctor Badanes notes, given a chapter to the "Training of the Specially Gifted." We are
all concerned with growing earnestness in the problem of getting in democracy the leadership
which all social organization requires. It is, therefore, of the most intense interest to all
thoughtful people how the flower of the family is nurtured and in what manner it is made to bloom.

This "Psychological-pedagogical Observation Record," which has been devised as an aid in finding
out if a child is specially gifted, and if so in what way its gifts should be developed and
how it should find its way to achievement, is very suggestive. Any parent might well study
its itemized outlines for help in effort to understand the child that is unlike the average.
The "Record" requires attention to the "general condition of the senses and nerves," to "memory
and power of learning," to qualities of "imagination," to strength and expression of "emotions,"
to facility in "language," to "manner of work," to "relation to home and community life," and
in respect to "adaptation to new demands." These things are vital not only to know about and
understand as respects one personality but to compare on the same basis a number of personalities
in order to get a ranking that is just and useful for guidance in education. Suppose a father
and mother feel sure that a child of theirs is one of the exceptional, the gifted, perhaps
of great talent, even possibly a genius in the making. They may get much help in arriving at
sober judgment by many books and treatises now available. But far clearer would be their own
approach to the matter in hand if they could study some such chart as is here alluded to and
get a clear direction as to what to look for and how to measure what they find. If such parents,
however, would be really assured in their first appreciation of their child they need the coöperative
observation and fuller opportunity of comparison which a teacher of a school, who is herself
or himself a good psychologist, can place at their service. All of us can see our own children
at their best; few can justly estimate what the power of that best may be in a competitive world.

=What to Do with the Specially Gifted Child.=--The child may be one of the few elected to leadership
in some field. All who watch and study and understand may agree that it is the gift of its
birthright. Then what is there to do? The question often arises, Shall the other children in
the family be given less opportunity in order that this gifted one may have the larger chance
which genius and great talent really demand for fulfilment of promise? There was no doubt of
the answer to this question in the minds of those who believed that a special gift carried
with it special privilege provided the special gift discovered were of a sort understood by
all. For many generations a boy feeling a "call" to the ministry of religion as rabbi, priest,
or preacher would be sure to have, if necessary, all the resources of his family at his command
and all possible aid of friends even at the sacrifice of the elementary education of his brothers
and sisters. In the same way in a more limited circle the child who could do any creative work
of imagination in art would be considered entitled to any self-sacrificing devotion of other
members of the family which might be needed to carry forward his work. In a larger way many
have looked upon all higher education as solely for those who have shown a power of potential
leadership. Not long ago the old saying was revived: "Colleges are for the exceptional individuals
who may become the world's intellectual élite." On the other hand, the growth of State Universities
and of many forms of adult education, and the offering of college courses in the evening to
those employed in earning-work during the day, show that the opportunities of culture are more
and more made free to all and that the conviction is growing that it is not alone leaders who
should be educated but that the common life must be raised in mental and moral power in order
for true leadership to work effectively for the advance of social well-being.

In the family the genius or near-genius is likely to get all that should be its privilege and
often more. And this not only from pride in his talent and from desire to give that talent
its proper chance of expression but because genius and near-genius have often a self-protecting
and self-acquiring quality that make sure of much unselfish care from others. If, as has been
said, "The genius is composed of a man, a woman, and a child," and there is much in life to
give color to that idea, then it is easy to see why the flower of the family so often gets
the larger share of every family advantage and when the family resource fails is sure to find
friends and helpers on every side to help on his development. This is not unjust provided the
talented member can serve well in this specialty. The great trouble is that many think themselves
geniuses and find others, in youth at least, to confirm their judgment of themselves, who are
only a trifle above the commonplace. This leads too often to selfish claims upon others that
tire even the family affection. It would be well on this account, if no other, if every child
could be wisely and adequately diagnosed in respect to mental power so that fewer mistakes
would be made in confounding greatness with showiness or creative power with mere discriminating
taste.

If the family really cuts off the education and vocational opportunities of the less gifted
below the point required for average success in life, in order to give greater advantages to
the gifted one, it is an injustice. The mediocre have their innings now, and it is one of the
great demands of democracy, both within and without the family, that the commonplace shall
not miss its chance for learning how to serve and enjoy the best it can. The family life must
be for all, the one place in which no life is wholly sacrificed to another life.

What, then, shall be done for the gifted whose talent, like that of music, for example, means
a high demand for expensive culture? The answer we are beginning to give is that social agencies
shall aid the parents in securing that culture. Aristocracy had its "patrons" for artists.
Democracy must have its special educational aids for the gifted. Already that demand is being
met in countless ways that will readily occur to all. Meanwhile, there is the public school
organized to meet the needs of the "average child." At first the grade-system had a Procrustean
bed that made it impossible to meet the needs of those below the average and almost as difficult
to meet the needs of those above that average. We started special schools and special rooms
for those subnormal, retarded, slow, or specially difficult to manage. Now we are beginning
to consider how we can best make the tax-supported public school serve the interests of the
specially gifted. The first thing we see clearly now is to find out which children are exceptional
on the upper side, and for that the newly devised forms of scientific observation and measurement
may be useful if care is taken to mix every formula with common sense, patience, and human
sympathy. The next essential is to decide whether the children who can go faster shall be passed
along through the grades by special arrangement more rapidly or whether they shall be kept
on the regular track of school promotions and be given extra lessons to "enrich their curriculum."
The part of wisdom, it would seem, is to find out what kind of gift the exceptional child has
and hasten his regular course, or add to it, in accordance with his type of talent. If he is
to be one of those who are to mix with men and lead others in professions that demand administrative
and executive power, the chances are that he should have the regular course in the usual order
and add studies that will early give him the facts of practical life and an acquaintance with
many phases of political, business, and scientific activity that would serve in such work as
he is likely to find to do. If, on the other hand, the gift is creative, and the career nature
has seemingly marked out is one where the impulse will come from within, and some special technical
training can alone give that impulse expression, then the chances are that the sooner such
a child "gets through with school," emerges from formal education into his own atmosphere and
his own free alignment with the masters in his own art, the sooner he will really begin to
be educated for his task. It seems to be true that the more a human being is set apart by nature
for a specialty of art the less he gets from all teachers save those in his own field of interest.
It seems also true that the wider a human being's range of dealing with other human beings
in business, in politics, in religious organizations, in educational work, the surer it will
be that "all is grist that comes to his mill" and there can be no study that is at all worthy
that fails to enrich his mind. Hence, the new tendency to examination for the sake of finding
out the specially gifted children and giving them the special opportunity in education which
they need and will profit by, must be one guided toward details of differing gifts as well
as toward quantitative power.

=Genius Universal in Nature.=--If any family has in it a real genius, that family shines forever
in the reflected light of its choicest treasure. Yet a genius belongs to no family, even to
no country. Such belong to the world. Mary, we are told, "pondered the things in her heart"
which marked the boy Jesus out from all the other lads who played about the carpenter shop
of Joseph. And it is not alone poetic imagination that shows her as troubled as well as humbly
proud at the testimonies of His coming greatness. Many other mothers of those destined to high
achievement have had misgivings as the shadow as truly as the sunlight of that greatness passed
across their vision. For true greatness is solitary and often dedicated to tragedies of experience.
The family life may be the only refuge from a misunderstanding world while the hero lives and
only after death may the high quality of his service be known to all.

=Genius Its Own School-master.=--The most comforting thought to parents who have children "different"
and perhaps different in ways not yet appreciated by the world around them, is this: nature,
which takes care that we shall not have too many geniuses and doubtless will still take such
care when we grow wise enough to give all the children a chance to prove whether or not they
are geniuses--nature sees to it that the most gifted among the children of men carry within
themselves their own school-master. If the regular lines of education do not suit their needs
they promptly emancipate themselves from the useless pedagogy, and going after what they personally
demand for inner nourishment, get it at all hazards. Sometimes, not infrequently, all the gifted
child needs is a library and a chance to be free, or a studio and the companionship of an artist
and just his own sort of training, at the time he can best appropriate it.

=Varieties of the Gifted.=--Happily all the flowers of the family are not geniuses or specially
talented. Some are just beautiful to look at and yet unspoiled by flattery. It is a great gift
of nature to be able to give happiness just by allowing people to look at one! The contour
of the face, the turn of the head, the light in the eye, the freshness of the complexion, the
grace of the movement, and the sweetness of the voice all go together, if the manner and the
feeling only match the coloring and the form, to make it well worth while just to be alive.

And some flowers of the family are not beautiful but charming, those of tact and graciousness
and understanding of others and consideration and unselfish behavior.

Some flowers of the family bloom late and come to their beauty only when some disaster threatens
destruction of the home or some sorrow wrecks its happiness. Simple, plain, unassuming, neither
very wise nor very strong in other matters, they have a heart that can love with such intensity
that it warms the coldest spot and is the refuge most sought when misfortune appears.

And sometimes the flower of the family is but a memory of one who early passes on. Emerson
sang in his beautiful "Threnody":

    "The gracious boy, who did adorn
    The world whereinto he was born,
    And by his countenance repay
    The favor of the loving Day,--
    Has disappeared from the Day's eye;
    Far and wide she cannot find him;
    My hopes pursue, they cannot bind him.
    ......................................
    Nature, who lost, cannot remake him;
    Fate let him fall, Fate can't retake him;
    ........................................
                                    the feet
    Of the most beautiful and sweet
    Of human youth had left the hill
    And garden,--they were bound and still."

It is of such that affection speaks most tenderly.

QUESTIONS ON THE FLOWER OF THE FAMILY

  1. How far should the general family life be burdened for special
     development of the genius, the near-genius, and the specially
     talented member?

  2. What added social provisions should we seek to secure to aid in
     the self-training of the specially gifted?

  3. What type of education may lead more surely to the discovery of
     talent and special faculty in the mass of children?

  4. Should the chief aim be to bring the subnormal or backward up
     to grade or to give a free and helpful range of opportunity to
     natural qualities of leadership? If both should be aimed at
     equally, how can the public school aid in the double task?

  5. A suggestive list of Books for Parents, issued by the
     Federation for Child Study, headquarters at 2 West Sixty-fourth
     Street, New York City, includes several of special value in
     determining the mental powers and special requirements of
     children diverging from the average quality and capacity. Read
     at least one of the books indicated and compare local
     provisions for examination of children with those advocated as
     desirable.

FOOTNOTES:

[11] See American Journal of Sociology for November, 1913.

[12] See American Journal of Sociology for May, 1913.

[13] See chapter on "Democracy and Distinction," in Social Organization, by C.H. Cooley.

    "One man, at least, I know,
    Who might wear the crest of Bayard
      Or Sidney's plume of snow.
                        Behold him,
      The Cadmus of the blind,
    Giving the dumb lips language,
      The idiot clay a mind.

=The Defective Children.=--Not those who die young, full of promise, to leave a memory of exquisite
budding loveliness cut short by untimely frosts, but those who live on from infancy to childhood
and from youth to physical maturity and even on to old age, yet never become responsible adults--these
are the children we must consider.

The demand of the eugenists that such, if obviously defective, should be prevented from bringing
forth after their kind is clearly the only social wisdom. The statistics of social pathology
all point to mental defectiveness as the prolific cause of crime, immorality, vocational incompetency,
illegitimacy, family failure, and marital tragedy. In a recent study of one hundred families
in which feeble-mindedness was obvious, a study carried on by the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, immorality was found in 58 per cent. of them; extreme
filth and bad home conditions were found in 30 per cent.; and in 47 per cent. one or more members
of these families were public charges. Where the mother is subnormal there is almost certain
to be a line of feeble-minded progeny, and in this study, while there were only 7 per cent.
of the fathers hopelessly deficient, in 25 per cent. the mothers were notably defective in
mind. Thirty-seven of these families showed illegitimate children--a far larger number than
the average of normal population. Physical deficiencies also figured largely in these family
records.

This particular study takes us into the region where Doctor Fernald, Doctor Goddard and many
others have prepared material for convincing the public mind that no one thing so increases
social degeneracy and so adds to the sum of human misery as the unprotected freedom of defectives
to procreate and pollute the family currents.[14] This is not a treatise on social pathology
and elsewhere must be found the details of investigation and information that justify this
statement. What is here attempted is only a study of what should be the attitude of fathers
and mothers toward feeble-minded children if such should be their tragic problem.

=Custodial Care of the Defective.=--In the first place, the attitude of mind of the parents,
if they are themselves normal, is to be considered. What gives us feeble-minded children from
feeble-minded parents is clear. The social prevention for carrying on known degeneracy cannot
be too strongly stressed, and hence the first duty of normal parents is to consider the social
danger of leaving a feeble-minded child, especially a feeble-minded girl, to any chance of
parenthood. This leads to the question of removal from home of feeble-minded children to permanent
custodial care in institutions provided especially for their segregation, possible teaching
and thrifty use of small work-power. Alexander Johnson, who has done so much in the United
States to make all philanthropy wise and effective and particularly has helped to form public
opinion concerning right methods of care and training of the feeble-minded, tells us that "one-half
of the mentally defective can become one-third of a normal person," can be made happy and useful
to the extent of considerable aid toward self-support if under constant supervision and given
the trained care of special teachers.

There are few private homes in which any feeble-minded boy or girl can attain such a condition.
The children who are "different," if having the sole devotion of father and mother, may be
protected and made happy in the measure of their power for happiness. But if there are other
children in the family neither they nor the afflicted one are comfortable. The measure of feeble-mindedness
is usually the measure of unhappiness when the normal and abnormal are in close companionship.
In most families it is not possible for either or both parents to give entire time, strength
and devotion to one subnormal child. Where it is, there is no security that death will not
prevent the permanency of that devoted care. Hence, it is generally safer and better for all
concerned to place the feeble-minded in collective homes where their own kind are cared for
exclusively and where segregated control can be complete and permanent through life. There
is no horror of such places for those who have seen what flowers of happiness and what miracles
of devotion may be found in "Training Schools for the Feeble-minded."

The affectional side of the nature of a mental defective may be of unusual strength and may
find special objects of love among those still more handicapped than itself. Those visiting
intimately in such School-homes may see a higher-grade imbecile caring for a lower-grade with
patience and devotion; they may see the competitive element in training, reduced in levels
for the accommodation of the slender stock of mentality, producing on that lower level the
same good results that normal children gain from trying to imitate and to excel. Small attainments
are sources of pride in a class of defectives which if exhibited among the normal would give
bitter experience of contrast. By making the standard of behavior and of attainment suited
to their little power, the delight of conquest over difficulties need not be denied to the
feeble-minded.

Hence, again, it is far from wise and often far from most loving to keep the child who can
never grow up in the company of those who follow the usual path from infancy to maturity. This
means, of course, if this idea of the more general use of special homes for the subnormal is
to be carried out, a large increase in provision of such homes. Such large increase is often
opposed by short-sighted economy. The expense of establishing and maintaining such homes in
adequate number and of scientific and humane provisions is counted over and taxpayers made
alarmed at the sum total. What is lacking usually in the count is the sum total of the enormous
sums society now pays out for the unregulated and socially dangerous neglect of this class
of unfortunates. Doctor Goddard's "Kallikak Family" and many other accurate showings of what
it costs to leave uncared for one feeble-minded girl in unbefriended freedom should convince
any sane person that the most wasteful extravagance any community can commit is such neglect
of what Mr. Johnson has called "the divine fragments" of humanity.

To make provision for the insane is seen to be a social necessity and the family more than
any other social institution profits by the hospitals and asylums for the treatment and care
of such. The relief of having an insane relative taken away from the home, after months and
perhaps years of anxiety, fear, and suffering on the part of every other member, cannot be
too strongly pictured. The effort now making to secure early treatment for the first symptoms
of mental derangement and to give even "border-line" cases and exceptionally "cranky" and nervous
people special treatment in mental hygiene marks the beginning, we must believe, of effective
preventive work in this line. The feeble-minded, however, have a claim of perpetual childhood
upon the parental sympathy, and that, together with common ignorance concerning their condition
or numbers and the social dangers inherent in their neglect, give us the alarming discrepancy
in numbers between the feeble-minded in suitable segregated care and those left to find their
way or lose it in the usual walks of life. Since Doctor Seguin wrote his Treatise on Idiocy
in 1846 the verdict of science and of philanthropy has been accumulating as to the need for
the full and complete protection of all who cannot manage successfully, even in the simplest
details, their own lives and the lives of those with whom they are most closely related. Yet
to-day, it is claimed by many observers, we have only about fifteen per cent, of those requiring
special protection on this account adequately cared for by society.

The family must be relieved of personal care of its insane, its lower-grade feeble-minded,
and its moral idiots. It must be so relieved for the sake of the normal members of the family.
It must be so relieved still more for the sake of lessening vice, crime, degenerative tendencies,
and actual waste of public money in public court procedure and in other public institutional
provisions.

To induce the state of mind in parents which will help on the better and more adequate social
care of these afflicted members of society, the sense of shame and the keen suffering from
social stigma in such cases must be mitigated. It must be seen that although it may be the
fault of one or both parents that such a child has come into the world, it is an added and
deeper fault, even in many cases a social crime, to leave that child in ordinary relations
of life. It is true that what Dr. Caleb W. Saleeby well calls "racial poisons" are often the
cause of the damaged germ plasm that starts the handicapped human being along his devious course.
Alcohol, syphilis, and other elements of degenerative action may have doomed the child and
in such cases the father's or mother's sin or carelessness is the cause of the child's tragical
condition. In such cases the dullest conscience must feel remorse. It is, however, not always
the fault of the immediate parents. It may be a far more remote inheritance that has started
the degenerative psychosis that results in either insanity, feeble-mindedness, dipsomania,
or "general debility of character."

=Heredity.=--Prof. E.G. Conklin says, "Heredity may be defined as the appearance in offspring
of characters whose differential causes are found in germ cells." Doctor Galton says "the two
parents between them contribute on an average one-half of each inherited faculty, or each parent
one-quarter. The grandparents contribute between them one-quarter, or each one-sixteenth."
The responsibility for a poor specimen of humanity, therefore, is not solely the parents';
they may share it with a considerable group. Many a defective obviously owes his condition
to some remote ancestor, "to the third or fourth generation," as the old Scripture said; and
many a charming trait, for which the immediate parents would like to take credit, is really
a gift from some great-grandparent.

This fact should make it easier for parents of defectives to bear the burden and easier to
make it seem less a shameful confession of individual responsibility and more a sad confirmation
of the fact that we are all members one of another and no one lives to himself alone.

=Difficulties in Care of Morons.=--The case is clear as to treatment, so all enlightened social
workers and social students agree, in respect to the obviously defective or insane. The difficulty
is to care protectively and yet justly for the higher-grade defective or what is now called
the "moron." Doubtless we should all see it best to begin at the lower levels of defectiveness
and abnormality for pressure upon society to socially protect in segregated institutions all
the afflicted. The point at which compulsory methods should be used might be placed at a widely
differing level by many most acquainted with the need for some form of social control of and
for this class. Parents in particular would resent any snap judgment and should do so as to
the mental condition of children not obviously imbecile. It is certain that the high-grade
moron makes much trouble and gives social tragedies without number, but it is still more certain
that no social machinery has yet been devised ingenious enough to really classify such persons
and place them where they can do no more harm. As Dr. Lightner Witmer well says in his warning
against careless diagnosis, "In training clinical examiners I advise them not to diagnose a
child as feeble-minded unless they feel sure they have sufficient facts to convince a jury
of twelve intelligent men that the diagnosis of feeble-mindedness is the only logical conclusion
to be drawn from the facts." It is undoubtedly true that many high-grade imbeciles or morons
would be adjudged not feeble-minded by most juries. It is also undoubtedly true that many youths
who are "peculiar" or "backward" or unusually susceptible to influence from others or especially
lacking in power of self-control are in social danger and need some form of social protection
more effectual than is required in the case of the normal child and youth. Higher grades of
abnormality and those less understood must be approached, however, both in matters of examination
and of care, from different angles of observation from those used in discovery and treatment
of the obviously imbecile.

In this connection mention must be made of the efforts to give supervision of special sort
and under official direction to those able to earn their own living or partially so, at least,
and who yet need special protection and care. The Proceedings and Addresses of the Forty-fifth
and Forty-sixth Sessions of the American Association for the Study of the Feeble-minded contain
specially valuable articles on "Extra-institutional Care" and on education of the higher-grade
defectives. Two articles published in Mental Hygiene of April, 1921, on the vocational elements
in such extra-institutional care are most enlightening as to possibilities in this difficult
field. The first of these, entitled "Experiments to Determine Possibilities of Subnormal Girls
in Factory Work," by Elizabeth B. Bigelow, shows that certain kinds of routine work may be
followed successfully by girls who are mentally under the normal. The second article, "Vocational
Probation for Subnormal Youth," by Doctor Arnold Gesell, of Yale University, shows how the
courts may use probation power and agency in the interest of self-support and a helpful industrial
relationship. The new Children's Code recently recommended to the Connecticut Legislature by
a special Commission advocates giving Juvenile Courts power at discretion to establish the
status of "Vocational Probation," under the supervision of officers of the Court, in place
of commitment to an institution, provided helpfully supervised employment may be found for
the boy or girl in which they may become self-supporting.

=The Colony Plan.=--The Report of Dr. Anne T. Bingham, Psychiatrist of the New York Probation
and Protective Association, based upon 839 mental examinations of girls and women coming under
notice because of breaking the laws or because manifestly in moral danger, is an important
study. Doctor Bingham highly recommends the "Colony Plan" for the care of the higher-grade
feeble-minded. In this plan small groups of those who show mental deficiency or any special
need of social care are established under necessary supervision and control in colonies, near
their own homes if possible, and given suitable work in the profit of which their families
may share if destitute. The natural homes of such girls and women are often lacking both in
helpful discipline or moral protection and to leave them in full charge of the parents is often
the worst possible neglect. This Colony Plan is described in an article by Charles Bernstein,
entitled "Colony and Extra-institutional Care for the Feeble-minded," published in Mental Hygiene
for January, 1920. The needed supervision, protection and care for higher-grade morons is difficult
to secure unless some form of official control is initiated. That official control is often
only available for those who have already suffered some serious consequence of their abnormal
condition. What we need to work out is a better and more effective means for helping the family
to do what is needed for the mentally handicapped child.

=Mental Hygiene.=--No adequate treatment of this vital movement can be given here, but the
family need for social provisions along this line must be urged. Few families can afford the
money, few parents have the wisdom, to secure the right sort of special treatment for minds
not so diseased as to be legal subjects for insane hospital care or for institutions for the
feeble-minded, which yet make the family life miserable and the family success difficult. There
is growing a conception of the need, especially in our complex modern life, that so often unsettles
or overburdens the mind, to have all manner of free clinics and economical methods of care
for those who can not well care fully for themselves. This movement will go on until the mental
invalid of every sort will find as ready social sympathy and as adequate social aid as does
the physically weak, ill, or crippled. Such a serviceable little pamphlet as that of Mr. Brady's
on "Mental Hygiene in Childhood" gives useful suggestions. Meanwhile, the family interest is
keen and must become more active and commanding in ridding society of the inducing causes of
diseased germ plasm. The whole "social-hygiene" movement, so-called, is in the direction of
cutting off the supply of the defective and making every family less likely to have children
who never grow up.

The call during the War, and a call heeded by many who had been ignorant of all the facts taught
them in training camps, was "Keep Fit to Fight," The call of peace, and may it be heeded as
the facts of inheritance are better known by all, is, Keep Fit for Parenthood. The sins of
youth, so often sins of ignorance, carelessness, and unbridled passion, which doom childhood
to blindness, to congenital deficiency of all kinds, to permanent twist of mental powers, or
to lack of ability to meet life's demands--these sins of youth will be less in evidence when
education is fitted to life's full responsibilities of choice instead of being side-tracked
in narrow lines of scholarly acquirement alone.

Meanwhile, for the parents whose children number one or more of the handicapped there is the
comfort of securing for such all that science and special arts of teaching and institutional
provision can give to make the life of those who can never grow up at least comfortable and
free from exploitation by evil influences. That some of the noblest and best of men and women
are giving their lives in wise and loving ministration to these least among the children of
men is proof of the overmastering power of human sympathy. Meanwhile, again, we are finding
out that the more discriminating observation of children and their more truly scientific rating
will take many children from the lists of the "backward" and the "difficult" and even the supposed
feeble-minded into the ranks of the educable toward full normality.

=Special Rooms in Public Schools.=--The special rooms in the schools and the special schools
in the school system and the school nurses and school doctors and the visiting teacher, with
her power of making connection between the home and the school and playground, all show that
we are coming to a point where every child will have a better chance for having his mental
and moral as well as his physical diagnosis correctly made. And such a diagnosis we have already
learned often shows that no congenital doom marks the child labelled "different," but rather
some curable bad condition in his life that needs only wisdom and economic power to correct.
The "Observation Cards" to which allusion has been made as helping toward discovery of the
specially gifted may also, if used with discriminating judgment, show that many whom we thought
lagged behind their mates from native disability can be made to keep up with the procession
if they are rightly fed, have enough sleep, get a chance at fresh air, and are not made the
victims of industrial exploitation.

The new gospel of environmental change in the interest of better physical, mental, and vocational
opportunities for all, includes not only the better care of all incompetent for self-control,
self-support, and self-direction, it also is coming to include a far more searching investigation
of the causes of degeneracy and backwardness, and many children are thereby lifted from the
hopeless classes to the group of those requiring only special care and teaching to be able
to be classed as normal. For this we must make automatic and habitual as many useful actions
as we can and carefully guard against growing into ways which are likely to be disadvantageous."
His advice for self-discipline is to "seize every first possible opportunity to act on any
resolution made, and on every emotional prompting in the direction of habits one aspires to
gain." Professor Thompson, in his book on Brain and Personality, says, "We can make our own
brains, so far as special functions or aptitudes are concerned, if only we have wills strong
enough to take the trouble." These and many other admonitions in the direction of more effective
mental training show the trend of modern education. How many a will has been weakened by bad
methods of family influence! How many nervous systems made the enemy of education rather than
its ally by bad family conditions!

The Parent-Teacher Associations are doing valiant service in bringing to the home the best
thought of the school and in bringing to the school the best feeling of the home. It is not
too much to hope that when the jointure between real education and pure affection is made more
complete we may lessen the toll of incompetent personality and raise the social standard of
human powers. In this connection one vital thought must not be over-looked, namely, the social
advance we may reasonably expect from the new power of women to select the fathers of their
children. Doctor Sumner said, "During the ages of the man-family men could not make up their
minds what they wanted woman to become." If that be so, it is still more true that now, as
the age of the man-and-woman-family begins, women are undertaking to make up their own minds
as to what they want to be and to do and are attaining a freedom of sex-selection such as they
have not had before in the civilization we call our own. Doctor Todd says truly, in his Theories
of Social Progress, that "from now onward the centre of selection is shifted from without to
within, from passive adaptation to active self-determination;" and he adds, "To rationalize
sexual selection and make it serve progress will be to revise the 'mores' and inject into them
new principles." While women had no real power to select their mates in marriage; while their
economic helplessness led them almost universally to marry as a means of support even when
no real affection softened and sanctified the process; while they had no power over laws or
customs, or knowledge of actual life outside the household, and hence had to take wholly on
trust the character and protestations of the man they married; while women were in this subject
condition they could not contribute to family life either a high standard of choice of parental
quality or a forceful demand for previous purity and right living in the husband. Hence, women
have up to a recent time been more sinned against than sinning if they passed on defective
germ plasm or doomed their children to suffering lives.

=Responsibility of Women in Marriage.=--Now the case is different. No woman of usual physical
strength or natural ability or average vocational efficiency is necessarily tempted to make
"marriage a trade." If she has any strength of character she can make her own way and find
many good things in life for herself. She can, therefore, exact such a standard of character
and attainment from any man who seeks her in marriage as he may well demand of her and can
pass by as incompetent to family demand all who do not measure up to the requirements.

This may mean (in some circles of society, it is already coming to mean) what Wallace indicated
when he said, "Woman is to be the great selective agent of the future." This cannot be, however,
unless women hold themselves to the best standards that men in the past have exacted of their
sex and so holding themselves (where the race needs that they should stand) hold men also where
the race needs that men should find their place. The defrauded children of every generation
call with pathos of unique appeal upon men and women that the "racial poisons" shall be abolished,
and evil inheritance be checked, and that every potential father and every potential mother
shall hold sacred the torch of life to pass it on the brighter for their handling.

Meanwhile, such agencies as "The Committee on Provision for the Feeble-minded," with its central
office in Philadelphia, and the "National Committee for Mental Hygiene," with its headquarters
in New York City and its important quarterly publication, together with local associations
of similar type, are at work, as is well stated by one national body, "to disseminate knowledge
concerning the extent and menace of feeble-mindedness and to suggest and initiate methods for
its control and ultimate eradication from the American people." On such social effort afflicted
parents of a defective child may depend for aid and direction.

In Whittier's tribute to Samuel Gridley Howe, the pioneer in this social care of defectives,
one false hope is pictured, namely, that "the idiot clay" could "be given a mind." That hope
could not be realized. The gates of destiny close at birth for many of the children of men.
What we can do and are now beginning to try earnestly to accomplish is to prevent so many idiots
from burdening the currents of life, to wipe out the social disgrace of leaving neglected wanderers
on the highways of human effort who are unable to find the path of safety and of success, and
to make a protected place of guidance and possible training for all the weak-minded and abnormal.
We can, now we increasingly understand, do more than this; we can help with ever more ingenious
and devoted care to give the merely slow and backward a better chance at life's opportunities
and help to make these least able to adjust themselves easily to the common ways of the world
more amenable to life's discipline and happier in life's restrictions.

=The Call for Preventive Work.=--The new call for social service for the children that never
grow up is along new lines of preventive work as truly as in demand for more tender care of
all who cannot be helped radically toward self-control and self-direction. The family, once
overwhelmed by tragedies of abnormality, can now be aided as never before in lessening or in
bearing the burden of such troubles. For the less seriously handicapped yet specially in need
of social consideration--the blind, the deaf, the crippled, those of cardiac weakness, and
the children born tired who might become rested and strong--the family has helps in education,
medical treatment and work opportunities suited to the particular need, such as no previous
era could furnish. Agencies for finding employment for the handicapped now show ingenuity of
the highest sort in fitting the work to special needs, and the way in which the blind are taught
to rise above their misfortune in happy use of the faculties and powers they actually possess
is marvelous. The deaf have as yet been able to triumph over their misfortune in less degree,
but the art of reading from the lips and other educational devices used in their behalf make
their condition so superior to that of the deaf-mutes of old that it is cause for gratitude
to every parent of a deaf child. The crippled children now are seen not to be different from
other children in their educational rights and as needing only more consideration of physical
requirements to be fitted for useful work.

The significance of the removal of educational provisions for the blind, the deaf, the crippled,
and the invalid children from the provisions of Boards of Charity and their assignment to departments
of state and local Boards of Education, is great. It shows that we are becoming as capable
in the community-at-large of understanding the radical difference between those who are defective
in mind and those who are merely handicapped by loss of some special sense or some physical
power as loving and wise parents have been when either defective or handicapped children have
called upon them for special care. The children that find it harder than most of their age
and station to grow up to full enjoyment and use of life's opportunities, because of some weight
of affliction, are, we now know, entitled to all the training that the normal child receives
and whatever else of special education their condition requires. The children that can never
grow up to mental maturity, even with all that educational ingenuity can offer, are the permanent
members of Society's Infant Class.

QUESTIONS ON THE CHILDREN THAT NEVER GROW UP

  1. What is the modern social program in respect to the care and
     training of the feeble-minded?

  2. What should fathers and mothers of the feeble-minded do to help
     realize that program?

  3. How far should social control compel the segregation or
     sterilization, or both, of those obviously unfit to become
     parents?

  4. What can be done by mental hygiene to lessen the numbers of the
     insane, the "queer," the weak-willed, and the slow-minded?

  5. The consensus of experts seems to indicate that the first need
     is to segregate in suitable institutions under permanent
     custodial care all the markedly inferior who cannot be
     self-supporting and who lack power of self-protection against
     the grossest forms of exploitation; the second need is to
     introduce new methods of supervisory control and humane
     protection and training in the care of those who are not normal
     but who, under favorable conditions of vocational guidance and
     direction and with a new home environment suited to their
     peculiar needs, may become wage-earners and fairly useful
     members of society. In the town for which you seek better
     conditions, which of these efforts is most needed at the
     present time? Is it to meet the needs for institutional care or
     for supervision adequate and well applied for those left either
     in their own homes or placed in colony-care?

FOOTNOTES:

[14] See "Mental Diseases in Twelve States," as reported in 1919 by Horatio M. Pollock, Ph.D.,
Statistician New York State Hospital Commission, and Edith M. Forbush, Statistician of National
Committee for Mental Hygiene, published in Mental Hygiene of April, 1921.

CHAPTER XI

PRODIGAL SONS AND DAUGHTERS

    "Because of fathers' sins the cost
    Is counted in the children's blood;
    They starve where once they might have stood
    Content and strong as bird or bee."--H.H.

  "The primary function of social science is to interpret men's
  experience in passing from stage to stage in the evolution of
  human values."--ALBION W. SMALL.

  "Every wrong-doer should have his due. But what is his due? Can we
  measure it by his past alone, or is it due any one to regard him
  as a man having a future as well? As having possibilities for good
  as well as achievements in bad?"--JOHN DEWEY.

  "Judge not, that ye be not judged. He that is without sin among
  you, let him first cast a stone."--JESUS.

  "The Sage is ever the good Saviour of men; he rejects none. For
  the good men are the instructors of other good men and the bad men
  are the material for the good men to work upon. The good I would
  meet with goodness, the not-good I would meet with goodness
  also."--LAO-TSZE.

  "The good man is apt to go right about pleasure and the bad man is
  apt to go wrong. It is only to the good man that the good presents
  itself as good, for vice perverts us and causes us to err about
  the principle of action."--ARISTOTLE.

  "Nothing can possibly be conceived in the world or out of it which
  can be called good without qualification except a Good
  Will."--KANT.

  "The object of moral principles is to supply standpoints and
  methods which will enable the individual to make for himself an
  analysis of the elements of good and evil in the particular
  situation in which he finds himself,"--JOHN DEWEY.

=Who Should Hear Sermons on the Prodigal Son?=--A young woman deeply interested in social service
was asked by the warden of a prison to address its fifteen hundred inmates on a Sunday morning
when they should be all assembled in Chapel. Hesitating at undertaking such a difficult task,
she asked the warden what he would think she should talk about. "Anything you like," he said,
"except this: don't speak on the prodigal son, for the last fourteen ministers and speakers
have read that parable and talked about it." "Indeed, no," answered the young woman, "that
parable is not for them. They should be taught what is justice to the elder brother and preached
to from the text, 'Work out your own salvation.'" It is really a bit difficult to find just
the right audience for a preachment on that appealing parable. The harsh-natured fathers who
most need its lesson are not likely to be in church when it is read and the tender fathers
often need to be stiffened up to work with all the rest of society to make the prodigal behave
better; and the elder brothers, the hard-working "sons of Martha," who have to save in order
to pay the taxes for the institutions and agencies that take care of the prodigal, should not
have the fact that their sacrifice and service are usually taken as a matter of course unduly
emphasized when they meet their fellows.

The fact is that the prodigal, like the genius, is often one who takes life's practical affairs
so lightly that until he is really hungry in the far land whither he has taken himself for
pleasures denied at home, he seldom considers how his behavior affects the rest of the family.
Moreover, the prodigal is often such a charming and engaging creature that all is forgiven
him many times more than is good for his soul, and who, therefore, has many fatted calves set
before him in renewed festivals over his repeated home-comings.

Yet, when all is said in the way of caution against overindulgence of the wayward, the one
thing about parental love that marks it as the supreme type of affection is the fact that it
holds all its own in permanent bond whatever the character of the child or his return for devotion.

=Distinction Between the Mentally Competent and Defective in Criminal Class.=--The parent who
has a prodigal son or daughter to-day has the benefit of much social wisdom and much educational
treatment of the wayward, unknown in the past. In the first place, we are learning to sort
out in the criminal and vicious classes those who are mentally responsible and those who may
be supposed to be the helpless victims of their instincts and tendencies.[15] If it is true,
as one has said, that "the test of sound moral character is that it possesses coherence under
liberty and has learned those various arts of adaptation to ever-varying circumstance which
make it a working quality, constant, rational, and automatic," we must perceive the intimate
connection between mental power and moral competency. In point of fact, we now know that the
overwhelming majority of criminals and constantly vicious persons, in ordinary times when no
social hysteria of recent war gives a "crime wave," come from the mentally feeble or perverted
types.

The draft examinations in the Great War gave a shock to all students of social conditions in
their revelation of the widespread deficiencies, physical and mental, of young men of our country.
Mr. Henry Wysham Lanier, writing on this topic, shows "that out of a total of fifty-four millions
of men twenty-six millions were either in the Army or Navy or registered and ready for call,"
and that of these "three millions out of thirteen were unfit to serve their country as soldiers."
Nearly three-quarters of a million had some mechanical incapacity, defects in bones, joints,
etc. About one-half million had imperfections of sense organs and nearly as many serious troubles
of the circulatory system. A third of a million showed nervous and mental incapacity for the
soldier's work. About 300,000 had tuberculosis or severe venereal disease. About the same number
had skin or teeth ailments. Altogether, the first severe examinations weeded out as unfit for
the service nearly one-third of those who were drafted.

In addition to the revelation of physical and mental defects in the average young manhood of
our country, it was found by further examination that five and a half millions of our young
men were illiterate. These facts show that in the mass of people from which criminals and vicious
people are recruited, large numbers have defects of body, mind, or education, which handicap
them in pursuit of an honest living or in the search for helpful pleasures. The step to be
taken in order to help the family to deal justly and humanely, but with due response to social
duty, with the prodigal sons and daughters, may be briefly outlined as follows:

First and foremost, the weeding out from every field of competitive life those manifestly incapable
of holding their own in self-protection and self-support. The unemployable among the unemployed,
the hopelessly criminal and vicious who cannot be rescued from their condition, the more permanently
backward among the school pupils, the incompetent among parents, and the dead weight of the
"born paupers," all these must somehow be socially carried with least expenditure of social
force and at least cost to family stability and family well-being. We have not yet learned
to do this, but in every field of social effort the primary need is to see what is the right
thing to do. When the ideal is accepted we are already a long way toward learning the lesson
of the method to be pursued to carry out the ideal.

=Moral Invalids.=--In the second place, when we have really ascertained who among criminals
and the habitually vicious, and who among the recipients of "material relief" who are constantly
returning for more aid, and who among the unmarried mothers, and who among the dependent children
are really feeble-minded or morally imbecile, we must segregate these as fast as we are able
to supply the right artificial environment for their weakness and treat them as incurable moral
and mental invalids. We must cease to deal with such as with responsible human beings, who
might do better if only they would. The "indeterminate sentence" is a step toward such treatment,
but it is often rendered wholly futile by being mixed with "reward of shortening term for good
behavior in prison." Good behavior inside prison walls gives no proof of ability to take good
care of one's self outside those walls; it may be only a proof that the moral weakling has
to have an external conscience and a strict watch in order to be amenable to even simple rules.
The parole system is also liable to great misunderstanding and serious social dangers when
it is used without the most scientific knowledge of the mental power of the man or woman concerned,
and without utmost care in selection of work-place and living conditions of the paroled prisoner.
The essential thing in all social effort to do justice to the wayward is to find out about
them and manage for them the essentials of environmental influence. If, as many think, after
careful study of large groups of wayward and criminal, more than half, almost two-thirds of
those who come before the law for punishment are of less mental capacity than normal children
of twelve years of age, then we must take social care of them as we would undertake to do if
they were really under twelve. And the parents of prodigal sons and daughters must help with
all the might of their parental affection in inspiring and supporting a public opinion to that end.

=Rehabilitation of the Competent.=--In the third place, for the one-half to one-third of criminal
and habitually vicious left after the mentally incompetent are given proper care, we must use
all the rehabilitation methods that society has devised and be more ingenious than we have
yet been in adding to them. When such methods as Thomas Mott Osborne used fail, they generally
fail because they are applied to those whom we should put under perpetual care, those indicated
above as incompetent to life's demands. To try and make over a nature too weak in fibre to
have anything of will or determination to "stitch to" is to have a response only when under
constant supervision, and inevitable backslidings follow as soon as self-control is called for.

It is true, however, that many who have gone far wrong make good and reach to a high attainment
of character. They are the "occasional criminals," the "fallen" who met with extraordinary
temptation, the too hardly used by fate, the too early exposed to evil influences, the wild
natures too strictly curbed by mistaken methods of control, the orphans without parental love
and guidance, the victims of broken family life, the "under-dogs" that could not make a way
out to successful vocation or to happy human companionship. These occasional criminals among
men, and the women or girls leading to sex temptations, may be often saved if so as by fire,
and live to help all others to a stronger and better life than they have known. As this book
is written the news comes of the death of such a woman in Chinatown of New York slums, a girl
who had descended to the depths of vice but who came up at the call of the Salvation Army and
spent the life left to her in helping others, such as she had once been, to hear and obey that
call. Some men show such power of moral recovery as to put to shame those never tempted to
a fall. These prove that mental power and the raw material of character, even after many untoward
experiences, may take a fresh start and enable men and women to "rise on stepping-stones of
their dead selves to higher things."

=The Right Use of Leisure Time.=--In the fourth place, the agencies of social protection of
child-life must coöperate with all parents, whether those parents are wise or foolish, strong
or weak, in preventing occasional criminality and preventable vice.

The helpful use of leisure time is a vital factor in the prevention of vice and crime. The
pioneer study of "Public Recreation Facilities" in the Annals of the Academy of Political and
Social Science of March, 1910, indicates lines of social service in this particular which have
been followed to great social advantage.

=The Moving Picture.=--The influence of the "movies" is the strongest, the most all-compelling
influence to which children have ever been subjected. There has never been an agency that so
appealed to all the senses, especially to the eye with its supreme registry of impressions,
and we have so far let it play upon child-life with little direction from the educative process.
What it is right and helpful to read is not always right and helpful to put upon the stage,
with the more vivid and popular appeal to eye and ear and with the lessened opportunity of
the drama to explain and soften and balance the presentation of tragedy and evil. What the
drama may safely give to the smaller and generally older audiences which it draws may not be
suitable from any point of view, either of art or of moral influence, for the coarser and more
pronounced representation of the moving picture. There is a place for film presentation that
is unique and it may easily become the greatest educational agency in all recreational life.
That place, however, seems self-limited to pictures of life that can be imitated without social
harm, insofar as very young children are concerned.

=Needed Supervision.=--Although much will inevitably be given in the moving pictures which
contains incidents that any wise person would not take part in for themselves, the main ideal
and the outcome of the situations must be such as to leave a tendency toward good and not toward
evil, if children and youth are safely to receive its strong impressions. This is understood
by those who are "trying to elevate the moving picture," but too often the reformers and the
educators are so far removed from the main sources of control of any business or art centre
that they only brush the outskirts of the agencies that purvey to public amusement and fail
to reach any citadel of real control. There is a general uneasiness, however, among many people
of all classes, even those usually very easy-going about any social influence, as they read
the tales of children testifying in the courts as to their "hold-ups" and their burglaries
that they did them "like the movies" they had seen. So that today be the mistake has prevailed about
far, as to have obtain'd. To explain very, it must not be much be considered (which we formerly
compared the Etymology of) this Franks had two Women for Empire, and two Seeds; one in Barrett, which
remains to Happiness; the women beyond Rhine, near River sala; of whence does they were name toward
salii, and Who Franci (joyning how the Agnomen together) and save anything for part there was
not been thus Salici; the Kingdom of the last, and this their very Agnomen done in the eastern.
Ammianus by History (as we told you did before) of these great, and shews, that they are name
of the Franks, as the others were called the western. Nowadays as there were two Kingdoms of the
social Eurafrican, so it had successful Torah: the that have belonged
to having the salii, were called.; many that left her did to Francogalli,
were called other.

Fullerene sang unlike Living on a great state even:-- "after he had presume the Title, finding
that our Peoples and Laws in deficient, (for the European who have one Torah had therefore be same education
from the original tastes in many Cases, non) do he think for part were fancied up as were
other."-- this Collection has the Trip.-- "each Province of the Salian, before how do it was made
for Scale, having enacted every Law by the Men of Nation, who at Time were their Governor; and
more for a nonextant these, four Things were chosen; Satisfaction, Arbogast, Salogast, and Purge;
who, during three Wives [tres mallos] carefully been peruse all Causes from their same, gave their
Judgment and rule aught of that one of them does get in Mode, whose&.
iv" Sigebertus in Chron. anni.&, lib.

4. scale. maturity. reshuffle of same Words. "from time (state they) the Laws urge within them
was by Wisigastaldus nor Salogastus, begin to be in Humility.
 And
"out of sight, out of mind" is true of their psychology. All of which makes it clear that to-day,
as in no previous time, we must all stand or fall together. The old home privacy is for the
most part gone, the old home isolation wholly departed. All recreation is more and more in
the open and appeals at one and the same time to all youth. The standards have to be raised
for all or they cannot be held firm for the favored few. Democracy, which aims to make all
better, may work to make all cheaper in taste, more vulgar in language, less capable of fine
expression of noble ideals, unless a social conscience and a social intelligence take command
of the common life.

It is, therefore, to-day, not enough to call upon parents to try and keep their own sons and
daughters from the prodigal life, it is a necessity, stronger than ever before, to make the
influences which all must share what all careful and wise parents wish for their own children.

This is a mighty task, one that in the United States of America, with its cosmopolitan population,
and its multitude of people with a smattering only of education or culture but with economic
ability to gratify their undeveloped tastes, is more vast and more pressing than any nation
has yet tried to accomplish. While we are working at it we may well comfort ourselves by remembering
that each generation has to meet new problems, and that somehow, even when the young start
wrong or meet with overwhelming temptations or fail to get at the right time the impulse toward
the best which they need, life has them in hand and teaches by experience much which helps
them onward. The tendency of life is toward strength and health and goodness and idealistic
aims and choice of the best each person knows. It is true, and the best thing in human experience,
that what parents cannot do for those they love, life itself does for them, perhaps with needless
suffering that the wise and loving parent would have saved them had they but heeded, but with
a thoroughness which experience alone can give.

=Parental Love for the Black Sheep.=--The attitude of parents toward the black sheep who does
not change his ways of evil and does not become a comfort but remains always a burden and sorrow,
is one of the saddest and one of the noblest of human exhibits in sympathy and affection. A
woman of the finest nature who as a girl was captured in imagination by a man of brilliant
quality but of peculiar cruelty and wickedness of nature, and guilty, after their marriage,
of many crimes, had two sons. One was like herself and became a man honored by all, and of
the greatest help to his mother. The other seemed the image of his father in all ways, personal
beauty, brilliant talent, and a naturally depraved character. He landed in prison, sentenced
for many years for forgery and long-sustained robbery of a bank. His mother said with truth
that she never had had a moment's relief from the most wearing anxiety until he was safely
behind prison bars, where he could no longer torture his young wife or hurt anyone else by
his wrong actions. Yet that mother, when he was breaking her heart by his actions and most
willing to do it, never failed in love, in patience, in deep understanding of his moral twist
and incapacity.

A girl born of ordinarily intelligent and moral parents became a prodigy of sex perversion
and the accomplice of thieves and murderers. She gave untold misery to all her family, but
the father never gave up his search for her when she left the home and never failed to give
her succor and the most tender care when she came back worn and ill, and at last left all other
interests in life to snatch her away from bad companions and try to establish her in a new
place and a better surrounding.

The story of the prodigal son was taken from life itself; it is the moving story of the one
greatest affection of the family bond, that for the bone of bone and the flesh of flesh, the
child that needs most the tenderness of the parent, the child that has worn out all other patience
and lost all other consideration and has only the claim of its deep need to insure its parent's
service.

=Children's Courts.=--Society has lately become wise and humane enough to establish Children's
Courts for Juvenile Delinquents. These, beginning merely in "Separate Hearings" in Boston Courts,
and assuming definite and autonomous form in Chicago, have become more widespread and more
inclusive in character. Now we are securing, as by a recent State Law in New York, the County
Courts for children, in which the limitations of local sentiment and neighborhood reluctance
to testify of family conditions are surmounted and yet the near-at-hand interest in the children
is preserved.

All modern philanthropy tends toward dealing with wayward boys and girls as those who need
and should have not punishment but education, necessary but kindly restraint, protection from
bad surroundings and training toward self-support. To this we are adding Domestic Relations
Courts dealing with juvenile delinquents not, as some one has said, "so as to punish parents
for the wrong-doing of their children," but rather as indicating the recognition of the fact
that one member of the family cannot be "saved" without an effort to save all the other members,
and that in the family relationship there are permanent bonds that courts should recognize
and seek to enforce and make more helpful to every individual concerned.

=Domestic Relations Courts.=--When the history of cases coming before either Children's Courts
or Domestic Relations Courts is studied, certain facts of social condition stand out prominently
as causes for juvenile delinquency. First of all, the broken family, one in which there has
been separation of father and mother, is a cause of child-neglect and consequent wrong-doing.
The death of either parent, also, is often the cause of such unhappiness or privation in the
home as to induce disobedience to law and bring the child before a court. The lack of employment
by the father or his too low wages, which reduces the family income dangerously and makes the
mother attempt to be both breadwinner and care-taker of the home, and hence lessens family
comfort and sends the children on the streets for amusement, is also a cause often appearing
as a reason for delinquency. The evils of housing congestion, too many families living in one
building or in one neighborhood without chance for privacy, choice of companionship or household
arrangements conservative of domestic virtue or happiness, these evils constitute a heavy indictment
of society in the returns of Children's Courts. The complex problems which the immigrant faces,
with his children early learning the language of the country to which he has come, while it
is to him a sealed book, are responsible for much juvenile delinquency. Jacob Riis has told
us, in compelling description, the story of the evolution of the "gang" and of the "tough"
from the children of parents who, well-meaning and in their own ancestral land capable of parental
control, here lose command of the family life because the children have to become the interpreters
and representatives of the family in the new country to a degree that reverses the natural
order of dependence and direction in the family life, and gives the children undue power of
leadership in family affairs. As Professor Cooley wisely says, "It is freedom to be disciplined
in as rational a manner as you are tit for." We might give the converse of this truth in the
statement that it is not freedom but dangerous tendency toward anarchy and disaster to be called
upon for rational decisions in advance of our intelligence and will-power, and a tragedy to
lose the habit-drill of parental control in the period of life when that is a necessary foundation
for wisdom in independent choice. The child of the immigrant often lands in the Children's
Court not because he is bad or stupid or even mischievous by nature, but because he is too
early forced by circumstances into a position of command and of unrestricted choice in action,
due to the ease with which the young can learn new ways and the difficulty of the old in mastering
strange language and manners.

=Dangerous Rebound from Ancient Family Discipline.=--Again, the Children's and the Domestic
Relations Courts bear testimony to the fact that to-day we are in a rebound from inherited
forms of discipline of children and youth which have given to all, immigrant and native-born
alike, a feeling that society exists for their benefit and that they owe nothing to society
in return. The very standardization of child-care by public demand, in matters of health and
education, of free books and free recreation and free music and free parks and playgrounds
and even free lunches in schools, and free baths and medical and nursing care--all that is
increasingly called for and provided out of the public purse for the nurture and development
of child-life--tend toward giving children and youth the idea that the world belongs to them.

The old crushing and often cruel pressure of older life upon the young is happily gone. The
new ideals of education, within the school and the home, which emphasize the right of each
human being to its own development into a unique, a free and a happy personality, are ideals
that must grow in realization more and more if we are to have fit people for making democracy
work toward the rule of the best. It is, however, profoundly true that we have gone farther
in demand for and effort toward individual freedom than we have in any translation of the old
social pressure upon the individual conscience and life to assume social obligations and bear
them worthily and usefully. There is a dry rot at the core of any class or any nation which
turns its inmost psychology toward what it can get from life without regard to what it should
give back to life. Too many children and youth in conditions in which, happily, the old despotism
of age is outgrown, have unhappily missed the old sense of obligation and old call to service
which the earlier forms of family and school discipline implanted in all responsive natures.

=Do Modern Youth Need New Community Disciplines?=--There is abundant evidence that William
James was profoundly right when he suggested a need in youth for some required devotion to
"the collectivity that owns us," some "moral equivalent for war" and the military drill of
older forms of civic order. When the Athenian youth took his oath of devotion to the city of
his birth, he signalized his coming of age and expressed the ideal of service of each to all
and all to each. This is not the place for detailed discussion of what is lacking in modern
training of American Youth analogous in spirit and effect to this classic custom. It must be
insisted, however, as we discuss the conditions that make for juvenile delinquency, among the
children and youth otherwise normal and capable of useful life, that we have not done all that
democracy demands when we have made children healthy, sent them to tax-supported schools, prevented
them from too early earning at "gainful occupations," and instituted all manner of recreative
and stimulating provisions for their free use. We must also give them some sense of what Seneca
meant when he said, "We are all members of one great body; remember that each was born for
the good of all." We must also burn deep into the consciousness of youth in some fashion that
shall be through our modern mechanisms as effective as were the old "Fraternities" of primitive
life, and as are still the outworn but persistent forms of military discipline, that idea of
subordination of private whim to public well-being which lies at the base of all true and ordered
social advance. The Children's Courts are a response to the effort of society to give each
child a fair chance in life. There are needed, also, devices of education and of compulsory
social service and social obedience which may tend to give society a fair deal from every adult.

Prodigal sons and daughters, therefore, who are abnormal, weak, morally invalid, must be cared
for in the way easiest and best for the social whole. Parents must help and not hinder in that
task.

Prodigal sons and daughters who are normal save for some accidental divergence from legal or
actual right-doing must be helped to come back into the line of social usefulness. And, above
all, the facts of juvenile delinquency should give us impetus, strong and intelligent, toward
a social and family discipline that shall make freedom and happiness of childhood a way to
social order and never a pathway toward social degeneracy or personal wrong-doing.

QUESTIONS ON PRODIGAL SONS AND DAUGHTERS

  1. What has been the general trend of social ideal and practice
     in the treatment of the criminal and the vicious?

  2. What part has the family played in restraint of evil tendency
     or in responsibility before the law for offences against social
     order?

  3. What part should the family now play in these vital social
     matters?

  4. What is "sentimentality" and what is "justice" in dealing with
     the prodigal?

  5. What can be done through physical and mental examinations, by
     experts, of all children, to prevent development of
     criminality, vice, and waywardness?

  6. In 1724 the English law held any one legally responsible for
     action subversive of law and order unless he was "totally
     deprived of his understanding and memory and doth not know what
     he is doing, no more than an infant, than a brute or a wild
     beast." Since 1843, the criterion of responsibility under the
     law is "knowledge of what is right or wrong in the particular
     case." Following the same line of change, our statutes now ask,
     in addition, if the person on trial is generally competent to
     understand and to obey social rules of conduct. Is this trend
     toward the lessening or toward the increase of crime and vice?

  7. What does social well-being require shall be done for and with
     those proved incapable of social habits?

  8. Head "The Socially Inadequate; How Shall We Designate and Sort
     Them?" by Harry H. Laughlin, Carnegie Institution, Cold Spring
     Harbor, Long Island, in American Journal of Sociology, July,
     1921. This is an attempt to introduce a blanket term under
     which feeble-minded; insane; criminalistic, including
     delinquent and wayward; epileptic; inebriate, including drug
     habitues; diseased, including tuberculous, lepers, and others
     with chronic infectious diseases; blind, including all of
     seriously impaired vision; deaf, including those with seriously
     impaired hearing; deformed, including the crippled; and
     dependent, including orphans, old folks, soldiers and sailors
     in "homes," chronic charity-aided folk, paupers, and
     ne'er-do-wells, may be listed. This article attempts to make a
     classification inclusive, yet subject to minute subheading,
     which may make reports more definite in listing human beings.

  Is such an attempt wise, and if so, how would each member of this
     group classify the "socially inadequate?"

FOOTNOTES:

[15] See a valuable study by Dr. Bernard Glueck, Director Psychiatric Clinic at Sing Sing Prison,
entitled, "Concerning Prisoners," and published in Mental Hygiene for April, 1918, showing
the need for mental examination of all convicted persons as an indispensable basis for right
understanding and treatment of prisoners.

CHAPTER XII

THE BROKEN FAMILY

  "Every social ill involves the enslavement of individuals. Freedom
  is that phase of the social ideal which emphasizes
  individuality.--All mankind acknowledges kindness as the law of
  right intercourse within a social group.--The ideal of service
  goes with the sense of unity.--A likeness of spirit and principle
  is essential to moral unity. The creation of a moral order on an
  ever-growing scale is the great historical task of mankind, and
  the magnitude of it explains all shortcomings."--CHARLES H.
  COOLEY, in Social Organization.

    "The sanctity of oaths
    Lies not in lightning that avenges them,
    But in the injury wrought by broken bonds
    And in the garnered good of human trust.
    'Tis a compulsion of the higher sort,
    Whose fetters are the net invisible
    That holds all life together.
    'Tis faithfulness that makes the life we choose
    Breathe high and see a full-arched firmament.
    We may see ill
    But over all belief is faithfulness
    Which fulfils vision with obedience.

    "Genuine government is but the expression of a nation
    Good or less good; even as all society
    Is but the expression of men's single lives--
    The loud sum of the silent units."--E.B. BROWNING.

  "There is no other genuine enthusiasm than one which has travelled
  the common highway--the life of the good man and woman, the good
  neighbor, the good citizen."--THOMAS GREEN HILL.

=The Problems of Divorce.=--Having treated in some detail the subject of "Problems of Marriage
and Divorce" in a former book, Woman's Share in Social Culture, and also in articles published
in The International Journal of Ethics, The Harvard Theological Review, Harper's Weekly, and
other magazines, this chapter, to avoid repetition, will simply rehearse in brief outline the
points of view previously expressed.

In the valuable and suggestive treatment of the family by Professor Ellwood in his book, Sociology
and Modern Social Problems, he says that "divorce is but a symptom of more serious evils that
in certain classes of American society have apparently undermined the very virtues upon which
the family life subsists." If that be so, then no tinkering with the laws which aim at preventing
divorces will reach the seat of the difficulty. The treatment must be more radical, and the
character of individuals be made more noble and strong, if the family is to be made more stable
and marriage more successful.

=Frequency of Divorce in the United States.=--The first point to be noted in any discussion
of the broken family is the frequency of that social tragedy in the United States. The pioneer
study by Professor W.P. Willcox, made in 1885 and reported in his volume entitled The Divorce
Problem, showed the fact that we had in this country at that time more divorces per year than
were recorded in all the other so-called Christian countries put together. For 1905, statistics
show nearly 68,000 divorces in the United States as against the highest number from Germany,
which is only a trifle above 11,000, and from France, 10,860, and running down rapidly to the
number of 33 in Canada. In England, in 1905, there was but one divorce to 400 marriages. In
the United States, in the same year, one divorce to every 12 marriages. Since that count was
taken, there has been no evidence of a halt in the tendency of the United States to lead the
rest of the Christian world in this matter of separation of those once joined together by marriage
vows. In some of the States, the showing is more pronounced on the side of free divorce than
in other States, since in Washington, Oregon, and Montana one divorce to every five marriages
is reported, in Colorado and Indiana one to every six, and in Oklahoma, California, and Maine
one to every seven marriages. We need not accept the doleful suggestion of Professor Willcox
that if we go on this way, "by 1950 one-fourth of all marriages will be terminated by divorce,
and by 1990 one-half so terminated," for it is not necessary or likely that we shall "go on"
in this particular. Already, movements toward the strengthening of family ties and the better
training of youth to responsibility, movements that tend to make marriage less brittle, are
inaugurated.

=Cannot Now Make Family an Autocracy.=--There are several points that all must agree upon if
we are to stay the rush to the divorce courts and yet not attempt the futile task of turning
the family order back to the patriarchal or the monarchical types. In those types there was
little or no legal divorce, it is true, but in them inhered social evils that often killed
the spirit of marriage, and doomed the children of enforced unions to physical weakness, mental
defectiveness, moral taint, and affectional suffering.

First of all, it should be noted that, although the divorce statistics are serious indictments
of American life and bode ill to American society, they are not wholly a testimony to bad conditions.
They are also a testimony that he who runs may read, to the determination of men, and especially
of women, to exact a higher reality of mutual love, mutual respect, mutual service, and mutual
coöperation within the marriage bond.

=New Standards of Marriage Success.=--When it was decided to investigate the causes for the
backwardness of school children, why so many "failed to pass" and were "retarded" in the march
from grade to grade in the elementary classes, the first inquiry took no note of the exactions
of the grade standards. All who failed to move on at the scheduled moment for "promotion,"
in any school examined, were listed as "backward." Later, it occurred to the investigators,
that the first thing to find out was whether or not a given grade standard was one that true
pedagogy would approve, and second, whether there was a serious discrepancy in that grade standard
between the different schools from which the children came for examination.

In much the same way the first inquiries as to the evil of frequent divorce seemed to take
for granted that all who sought divorce were in circumstances that might have been socially
and usefully continued within the marriage bond. We know better now. We know that the first
question to ask about a broken family is: What was its condition before the break? Did justice,
and a fair estimate of the quality of the union and its effects upon the man and the woman
involved, and their children, demand that the family hold or be held together, or was there
a condition that made society more interested in the ending than in the continuance of that union?

If, as is beginning to be understood, it is not for the interest of society that men and women
should marry who are so physically diseased, or mentally defective, or morally perverted as
to make them injurious members of a family circle, is it not as clear that in many cases such
persons when married are not helpful members of any family; and if so, again, is it not clear
that there is justification in social need itself for the removal of such persons from the
family circle they have already polluted or injured in vital ways, to prevent their doing more
harm to family life?

Whatever may be thought by many who view all divorce with horror, there is a tendency within
that movement toward free divorce, toward the freeing of the currents of generative life from
evil influence, from despotism, from degenerative tendencies, and from the worst forms of social
wrong-doing. There is, also, of course, in that movement, a testimony which should make all
earnest lovers of their kind learn how to urge socially therapeutic treatment, a testimony
to human weakness, to a lack of the sense of responsibility, to a love of personal pleasure
at any cost to moral obligation, and to a need for social control of the whole family relation.

The causes, in our country, for which more than 90 per cent, of the divorces are granted, are
the serious ones of adultery, cruelty, imprisonment for crime, habitual drunkenness, desertion,
and neglect to provide for the family. The engineering was say to be sharpened below many information
in Italia, if they shall nigh Water. The woman made to it was ward by a three-lead frump, has call
Hellhound, and shall owe the manner sharpened to it was debar by Stream styx. Every Quicksilver
or bring all many alcohol of citizenry who had decease during time, and if their allegiance
ritual had been vainly have execute, and they had a found or should wish they wish of body, own franchise,
or when the boatman, they made they should become they have across; but if their cadaver to suffering,
or on action-men, beloved, by shadow had to flutter about beggary to be ferry over they. To
they had traverse, if her shall have legally become they were evaluate
by official, and if they had been elysian determination, were send to alien
Wrath, Fury, Megara, and tisiphone, who had men as flagellum in whisker.

If they had been rich and political s, they were let in land, where Hades predominate; but they shall they
look too to have hanker after country whether they had lose; and have own presence of enemy
has to look glad ever what we keep they to fact. Decently, have hither, they populate the Inevitable,
excessively whirl the cotton of babu’ ghetto; Klotho has keep with enemy, drew out the yarn, Another
clipper shall keep now reduce her away when the homo was to decease her. And, Jove was mighty,
nothing could occur but Country, which was potent than he shall have.
[Image: Appearance Ending] Dog.



=Free Love Not Admissible.=--Professor Ellwood says that "while material civilization is mainly
a control of the food process, moral civilization involves a control of the reproductive process,
that is, over the birth and rearing of children." He argues from this that social organization
"precludes anything like the toleration of promiscuity or even of free love." Most students
of social history will agree with this statement. We may, therefore, say that the attitude
of law, of custom, and of social standards, must be that of demanding legalization of permitted
sex-relationship, and the effort to make legal sex-relationship permanent where possible without
sacrifice of the substance of family life to its outward form.

=Must Work Toward Desired Permanency in Marriage.=--This means a quite new approach to the
problems of marriage and divorce. It means the inauguration of legal and educational mechanisms
in the interest of making people want to stay married, rather than toward an effort to make
people stay wedded when they wish to separate. In this, more, even than in any other field
of social effort, we should take heed to and obey the advice of Dr. Lester Ward "to use attractive
rather than compulsory methods of reform."

=Needed Changes in Legal and Social Approach to Divorce.=--What are the main points of change
in our legal and social approach to the divorce situation, which the modern need for social
control through democratic measures demands most clearly and strongly? They are, first, a longer
period of delay between reception and granting of the request of a man and a woman for a license
to marry. Several State legislatures are now considering statutes which require an "interval
of three days" between the application for and the granting of marriage licenses. This is certainly
a short enough time in which to find out if either of the parties is likely to commit bigamy
if the license is granted, if both of the parties are really of adult age claimed, if either
of the parties is afflicted with an infectious disease that would make marriage dangerous to
the other party, if either of the parties has been a resident of a criminal or pauper institution,
if either or both of the parties are competent to financial support of the twain, if there
is any "just cause or impediment" against the legal union. We may find it wise to return to
the old "three weeks publishing of the banns" in order to know what the state is about in granting
and what two people are about in demanding a marriage license. In the second place, there are
limits outside of which society should not allow legal marriage to receive its sanction. During
the legal interval required there may develop knowledge of facts that make it a social crime
for one or the other or both parties to be allowed to start a new family. This is matter for
serious and long-continued study, and the experimentation of our different Commonwealths in
determining the useful or necessary restrictions upon legal marriage is not without value.
The main thing, however, is for society to recognize that there are just restrictions upon
marriage and that this is proved by the actual social burden which unfit persons place upon
their fellows when marrying and bringing forth after their kind. The third point, which must
be emphasized more strongly than has been the case heretofore, is the need of making the state,
through its courts, the ally, not the enemy, of marriage permanency. As it is now, the Divorce
Court exists to secure divorces. Its very existence invites to its use. The court procedure
in all cases of marital unhappiness which has become acute enough for legal freedom to be sought
should be a court procedure that aims at arbitration, at "trying again," at winning harmony
by just concessions from either or both the parties, a court procedure consciously and definitely
set to the task of making more marriages successful even when they have developed difficulty
of adjustment, rather than one allowed to act as a means of easy separation of even fickle,
selfish, and childish people on grounds of superficial difference.

=Prohibition of Paid Attorneys in Divorce.=--The absolute abolition of any paid service of
any attorney in the interest of getting anyone a divorce, is a primary social demand. The establishment
of a "Divorce Proctor" service in a Domestic Relations Court, with sole jurisdiction over applications
for divorce, is a second vital social demand. Some form of legal provision which would make
judges of a special and honored class the paid representatives of society's demand for marriage
to be as permanent as individual justice will allow is essential to any genuine divorce reform.
The often highly-feed advocate of personal wish of two dissatisfied people, the agent that
deals with divorce problems as a lucrative trade, is one cause of the prevalence of divorce
among the idle and pampered rich. Those who have greater social opportunity than they have
brains or conscience to use them aright, and who can pay lawyers so extravagantly, give us
a heavy total of marital separations and of remarriage of divorced persons in the United States.

Judges, the best and the wisest, must sit on all cases where the breaking up of a family is
the issue, and all privately paid attorneys (in other kinds of social arrangement and difficulty
also a hindrance rather than an aid to justice) must be banished from every divorce court and
from every divorce proceeding, both of the richer and of the poorer classes.

=Divorce Proceedings Should be Heard in Secret.=--Newspapers should not be tempted or allowed
to gain advantage from the weakness, the folly, or the vice of any member of any family which
may be revealed in such divorce proceedings. The fact of whether or not a divorce applied for
is granted, the fact of whether one or the other party or both have received freedom, the fact
of whether one or another was pronounced guilty of treason to the marriage bond--these are
all subjects for news. The springer till she come into any Art, and there drop. Such grave did
use of our guess were seen augur, and Cadmus was not thus drawn to discontinue they may do from search
his beguine, and for go Who cattle had removed till she read away of weariness, and to metropolis.
Cadmus intend to message do her down, or there travel to bring moving are gained from bubbler, but as they
crouch a agamid on where do him read. They had a engineering, but Athena reflect up in burglaries
to him, and offer him must do not seed its set of land. It did surely, and have they jump up
boys, who at so begin to action, and defeat one the, all but one, retinol make ally, and assist
who to municipality name Thebe.

=Earlier and Better Use of Domestic Relations Court.=--Another way by which society should
undertake to supply in newer and more democratic forms the supervision, the control, and the
support to the individual married couple and their children, which the older collective family
organization sought to supply, is an earlier and a better use of the Domestic Relations Court,
or of some advisory agency to prevent the breaking up of families. There should be something
analogous to the old "family council," some body of advisers well known and well equipped for
actual service, to help the bewildered and the unhappy. The religious ministry should be able
to supply such help. It often does do so. The circle of friends may sometimes contain those
of wisdom and understanding who give needed aid toward a resumption of broken relations on
a higher and more enduring plane. There is needed, however, something between the court to
which people go for relief from bonds, and the solitary struggle with difficulties before that
relief is sought, something which, if related officially to the Domestic Relations Court, would
be of a more flexible and private nature than most of its proceedings. We need more an aid
to avoidance of marital rocks than a rescue, as from a life-boat, after the shipwreck.

There are many forms of advice and help which the teachers and medical practitioners in mental
hygiene are now developing and offering which may be used later on, when we are wiser, in this
work of preventing families from breaking up. Regularly constituted "social doctoring" for
the prevention, even more than for the treatment of social disease as it manifests itself in
family life, is surely called for.

