It was not alone fear that the ambitious Napoleon might obtain a foothold in neighbouring territory
which moved the Jeffersonians to this inconsistent step. Neither was the action due entirely
to fear lest Britain might obtain possession of it in the renewed war with France. The law
of compulsion showed in other particulars. The advance of the American pioneers across the
continent could not be checked. They had compelled the Atlantic-coast majority into making
the Pinckney Treaty which opened the mouth of the Mississippi in 1795. Remembrance of their
threatened secession compelled Jefferson to try to quiet their fears freshly aroused by the
transfer of Louisiana to France, and the closing of the Mississippi. Ex-Governor Monroe, of
Virginia, was chosen to assist Livingston, because his former executive position had put him
in touch with the Western people.

In several ways Louisiana played havoc with strict-construction theories. So regardful of the
rights of the individual had the Jeffersonians been in the early days that many had hesitated
about creating Territories in the western vacant lands, lest the people migrating to them should
not enjoy equal rights with their fellows in the States. When the inhabitants of the Mississippi
Territory in 1799 petitioned for promotion to the second grade of territorial government, Jefferson
denounced the first grade, which had been given to them by Congress a few years before, as
"a despotic oligarchy without a rational object." Within five years, he and his party were
facing the problem of establishing a status for some forty thousand white people, whom the
United States had acquired with the Louisiana country. The problem was whether to violate the
doctrine of the rights of man as well as the treaty and hold these people perpetually as colonists,
or, by providing for their erection into States, further imperil the sectional balance of power,
further endanger the sovereignty of the individual States, and contribute to the growing strength
of the Central Government.

In his Ordinance of 1784, Jefferson had provided for eventual and not immediate statehood for
the inhabitants of the Western territory. Manifestly a State could not be made out of vacant
land; it must await a sufficient number of inhabitants. But this excuse for holding citizens
temporarily in a subordinate position was not valid in Louisiana, where the southern point
of the great triangle already contained a sufficient number of inhabitants for statehood. Moreover,
Napoleon had sufficient thought for these pawns in the game of diplomacy to insert in the treaty
of cession a provision that statehood should be given them "as soon as possible." The Jeffersonians
were compelled to resort to loose construction in interpreting this phrase. Louisiana contained
a large non-English-speaking population, unaccustomed to the privileges and obligations of
free government. Their deficiency was only partly supplied by a sprinkling of Americans, who
always precede and bring about a demand for expansion of territory. "All men are created equal,"
was the doctrine of the Jeffersonian Declaration. But even the doctrinaire would not insist
that it gave to each individual immediate and equal share in all government both national and
local, whether or not he was prepared by inheritance or environment. During nine years the
people of the Louisiana territory had to serve in preparation under the rule of the rights-of-man
party, before the first portion was erected to statehood on an equality with the older States.

Being unable to admit the people of Louisiana to immediate statehood, and unwilling to hold
them purely as colonists, the Jeffersonians divided the land into a territory and a district.
This action prolonged for years the possibility that the people reside in territories, deprived
of the privileges and protection of a State government. Suppose the "monarchists" should again
come into national control and pass new Alien and Sedition laws? Where could these inhabitants
of a territory find a protector? Under such conditions, the prestige of State citizenship was
rapidly disappearing. The very fact that certain inhabitants of the United States were living
solely under the protection of the national authority inspired a greater respect for that authority.
Likewise, when these people were admitted to statehood at the end of their period of probation,
it would be done by an act of Congress, and not by the States.

Among the many constitutional dilemmas into which the party had been brought by this compulsory
action, was a provision of the treaty that the port of New Orleans should enjoy certain favours
for a number of years. To reconcile this exception with the Constitution, which says that "all
duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughout the states," it was declared that
the territory had been purchased by the States in their confederated capacity and they could
hold it like a colony. Therefore, the Congress could regulate it as a territory under the Constitution
without reference to the provisions affecting the States. Thus did fate compel a virtual acknowledgment
from the sticklers for individual rights, within four years after their accession to national
control, that the Constitution did not follow in all its provisions the extension of sovereignty
over new soil.

From a broad point of view, the placing of sixty years of territorial expansion in the hands
of the party opposed to the practice by birth and nature is a strong evidence of the checks
and balances which have made the nation. Under strict construction, territorial expansion became
a potent factor in loosening the bonds in which the Government might have been confined. Under
loose construction, expansion might have become a centrifugal force through foreign conquest
and colonial holding which would have destroyed the free system it was intended to build up.
The Jeffersonians were moved in later expansions by a desire to extend an economic system and
to make party capital. They never sought national aggrandisement, as their opponents might
have done had they been in power. Proud of the territorial growth of the Union as we now are,
and seeing so clearly the wisdom of the final consummation, we forget that the domain might
have been increased too rapidly or too extensively in more sympathetic hands.

In still another way was the fallacy of strict construction laid bare by the Louisiana question.
The remedy of an amendment to the Constitution to bestow needed powers had been the one frequently
suggested. Here was an early opportunity to test this constitutional preventive against central
usurpation. But time was wanting. "From the moment that France takes possession of the mouth
of the Mississippi," said Jefferson, "she becomes our mortal enemy." Amendment-making is necessarily
a slow process. Months if not years are required. Jefferson was obliged reluctantly to abandon
his first thought of an amendment to cover both the present case of Louisiana and the future
affair of the Floridas, if they were not included in Louisiana. He was forced to suggest to
members of Congress that the less said about any constitutional difficulty the better, and
that it would be desirable for that body to do what was necessary in silence.

If the Jeffersonians had been driven from their first ground by this territorial acquisition,
the Federalists had fared no better. They had first called into being the genii of the "implied
powers," and now had the mortification of seeing it serve their enemies. Having swung in the
change of 1801 from the "ins" to the "outs," they became the opposition party and were compelled
to resist many measures and principles which they had formerly advocated. They had gradually
lost State after State until they were confined to New England. The former great national party,
the party of Hamilton, Jay, and Adams, the party to which Washington had leaned, was shrinking
into a sectional faction. Where it had once wished to give the Union every means of aggrandisement,
it was now compelled to oppose almost doubling its domain, lest the balance of power between
the different parts be lost. It feared the ascendency which Louisiana would give to the Southern
interests, never foreseeing from the shape of the addition that the advantage would in time
lie with the North. Professing devotion to the Union, they would now deprive it of the advantages
resulting from prolonging indefinitely its holding of colonies. They must have seen the result
if the domain had never extended beyond the Mississippi. The territory both north and south
of the Ohio would speedily be made into States according to existing arrangements. The great
prestige inuring to the Union from territorial control would thereby cease. But with the addition
of new provinces from time to time, the holding of territories preliminary to statehood must
be indefinitely prolonged. The functions of the Union would be multiplied instead of diminished.

By the acquisition of Louisiana, Jefferson effectually settled the twenty years of internal
dispute over the navigation of the lower Mississippi. From source to mouth, it flowed presumably
through American territory. Americans were to be found on both sides the great water highway.
Those west of the river had crossed upon invitation of Spain, who hoped in this way to people
her province without loss to her other possessions. The colonists taken across the river by
Colonel Morgan and others had caused no little alarm to statesmen in the Confederation days,
lest the population of the United States be drawn off to people a Spanish possession and so
weaken the Republic. Among the thirty-five thousand or more people to be found about the city
of New Orleans and along the lower Mississippi and the Red rivers was a small percentage of
Americans; but a much larger proportion was to be found in the six thousand inhabitants of
St. Louis and the small villages near by.

This leaven of Americans affected the whole. They had been accustomed to the fostering hand
of the National Government in the matter of improving means of transportation and communication
in the older States from which they had migrated, and they did not hesitate to demand such
aid for their new localities. Thus the people in their westward movement, carrying with them
remembrances of the benefits of government assistance enjoyed in their former homes, have extended
the system of national improvements across the continent.

There was a pressing demand for assistance in the Louisiana country. The province had been
long neglected because of the frequent changes in ownership and the Latin method of colony
holding. The task of Americanising this foreign element was imperative. The extent of territory
to be brought under harmonious rule was extensive and varied. It was impossible for the Administration,
in providing for the welfare and defence of the acquisition, not to be drawn into measure after
measure of that paternalistic nature for which the party had so roundly criticised the Federalists.
The sole management of Territories was vested in the National Government. The individual States
could have no part in providing for the inhabitants of the Louisiana Purchase.

Federalist precedent had paved the way for Republican action. Since the Revolutionary days,
Congress had been accustomed to maintain troops on the border for the protection of settlers.
The establishment of forts in distant parts made necessary the construction of roads between
the posts and their connection with the settled parts for the conveyance of troops and supplies.
The addition of the vast tract of Louisiana demanded an immediate extension of military posts
and military roads.

The Federalists had been accustomed, as previously described, to construct new post-roads instead
of confining the mails to roads already built by State or private funds. Some of these post-roads
were nothing more than a "trace" cut through the woods, which permitted a man on horseback
to pass, carrying a post-bag. Even this could not be done without some expenditure. Occasionally
the expense was met by a donation of public lands through which the trace passed. In other
instances, payment was made from the postal receipts and appropriations. The constitutionality
of such action had been attacked occasionally by the Republicans before they came into power.
But having assumed the national control, they were compelled to continue the construction of
military and post-roads. Even the fear of a standing army and the desire to economise could
not warrant a neglect of the inhabitants scattered through the new possession. Congress owed
protection to them not only as an implied power, but as an implied duty.

Thus it came about that Jefferson, who a few years before was taking Madison to task for thinking
that the power to establish post-roads meant to construct new ones rather than to establish
post-routes on those already made, was engaged with his Cabinet in planning a vast system of
new highways to and through Louisiana. Among other enterprises, they contemplated a great post-road
to New Orleans through Georgia, instead of the long water route heretofore used by way of Nashville
and Natchez. The new way, it was estimated, would shorten the journey five hundred miles. Branches
were planned to St. Louis and to Detroit. The difficulties of frontier travel may be imagined
from the fact that the surveyor-general, who was despatched to examine the feasibility of the
Georgia route, was nearly three months in reaching New Orleans from Washington.

Interested in scientific knowledge and exploration, and desirous of keeping American ships
off the seas by developing internal trade, Jefferson had anticipated the purchase of Louisiana
by proposing confidentially to Congress the despatch of a few men on an investigating trip
up the Missouri River. Trade with the Indians needed to be cultivated in this manner, but no
State was sufficiently concerned to undertake it. Jefferson found an easy way to warrant national
action. "The interests of commerce," said he, "place the principal object within the constitutional
powers and care of Congress." Not even Randolph, who deplored every departure from old policies,
could ever regret the expenditure of the $2500 which sent the Lewis and Clark expedition across
the continent and laid the claims for national addition nearly a half-century later. After
this precedent, it was easy to send Lieutenant Pike to ascertain the true source of the Mississippi
and to explore the vast plains on the south-west toward the Spanish possessions. Many expeditions
for scientific purposes and for exploration have been sent by the National Government since
that day; but it must be remembered that the practice was inaugurated under the strict constructionists,
with no other warrant than "to regulate commerce."

The Lewis and Clark expedition called fresh attention to the possibilities of the great West,
and justified the urgent demand of the Western people for national aid. The danger of Western
secession had long since disappeared; but many plotters had shown a tendency to use the frontiersmen
as allies in the European wars. Genet, over ten years before the Lewis and Clark expedition,
contemplated the use of an American force against British Canada. Miranda proposed to use the
same recruiting-ground for his movements on Spanish South America, and even Hamilton consented
to the scheme, if he could be commander of the expedition. Now came Burr, planning an expedition
of these hardy trans-Alleghenians into New Orleans and thence into the disintegrating Spanish
possessions of the South-west. Napoleon's success seemed to have turned the heads of all ambitious
men of the day toward foreign conquest and they proposed to use the Mississippi valley as a
rallying-ground. To invade the territory of a nation with whom the United States was at peace
was contrary to Federal law. Jefferson turned his attention toward punishing Burr on even more
serious grounds; but Gallatin was keen enough to discover the cause for selecting the Western
people as tools. It was not a novel idea to suggest better means of communication between the
East and the West; but it was novel to attribute Western disaffection to a lack of touch and
sympathy between the people of the two sections. Trade and intrigue with foreign neighbours,
so Gallatin thought, could be suppressed more easily by kindness than by punishment. It was
true that the National Government had permanently opened the Mississippi River as an outlet
for the West. But the journey down was long and tedious, delays might be encountered at New
Orleans because of the limited number of ocean vessels on which produce could be transshipped,
and only a limited cargo if any was possible on the return journey up-stream. The increase
in population and the consequent increase in the size of crops to be transported to a market
would speedily bring a demand for some means of taking the products directly to the Atlantic
seaboard and of bringing manufactured goods in return.

Gallatin embodied some of these thoughts in his celebrated report on the topography of the
United States, which he submitted to Congress in 1808. He first described the few attempts
which had thus far been made by States and private companies toward constructing canals and
turnpikes. Then he threw party theories to the wind and, with a constructive statesmanship
second only to that of Hamilton, he suggested a vast system of national improvements on a worthy
scale to be undertaken and carried to completion by the central authority. It would require
not less than twenty million dollars. Since there would be an annual surplus of five million
dollars because of the unredeemable form of the national debt, he would appropriate large sums
to these "national objects." Not only would the distant parts be bound together, the mail better
accommodated, and internal trade assisted, but, as Gallatin pointed out, it would be possible
to transport troops hurriedly from place to place, adding to the national defence. Nature had
interposed mountains, falls, and sandbars in the pathways of interstate communication. "The
General Government alone," said he, "can remove these obstacles."

Gallatin was compelled to acknowledge, however, that the execution of his plan would be hampered
because the National Government could not, under the limits of the Constitution, undertake
the construction of a road or canal through a State without the express permission of that
State. In the Territories alone would it be possible. State consent might be difficult to obtain,
because so many States had inaugurated similar enterprises, which would be obliged to compete
with the national roads and canals. Jefferson, in accord with his general theory, suggested
an amendment to the Constitution, removing this objection. He overlooked the fact that national
post-roads and military roads had been already constructed within States.

