A
  LETTER
  TO

THE HON. SAMUEL A. ELIOT,

REPRESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS FROM THE CITY OF BOSTON,

in reply to his

  APOLOGY FOR VOTING FOR THE FUGITIVE
  SLAVE BILL.

BY HANCOCK

  BOSTON:
  WM. CROSBY & H. P. NICHOLS,
  111 WASHINGTON STREET.
  1851.

CAMBRIDGE:

METCALF AND COMPANY,

PRINTERS TO THE UNIVERSITY.

A LETTER, &c.

SIR;--

An English courtier procured a colonial judgeship for a young dependant wholly ignorant of
law. The new functionary, on parting with his patron, received from him the following sage
advice,--"Be careful never to assign reasons, for whether your judgments be right or wrong,
your reasons will certainly be bad." You have cause to regret that some friend had not been
equally provident of your reputation, and intimated that it was only expected of you to vote
for Mr. Webster's measures, but by no means to assist him in vindicating them. You did, indeed,
vote precisely as those who procured your nomination intended you should; yet, on your return
home, you found your name had become a byword and a reproach in your native State. Another
election approached, but you declined submitting your recent course to the judgment of the
electors, and withdrew from the canvass. But although the people were thus prevented from voting
against you, they persisted in speaking and writing against you. Anxious to relieve yourself
from the load of obloquy by which you were oppressed, in an evil hour you rashly appealed to
the public through the columns of a newspaper, and gave the "reasons" of your vote for the
Fugitive Slave Law. You had a high and recent example of the kind of logic suited to your case.
You might have indulged in transcendental nonsense, and talked about the climate, soil, and
scenery of New England and the wonders of physical geography, and, assuming that negroes were
created free, you might have contended that, in voting for a law to catch and enslave them,
you had avoided the folly of reënacting the law of God. Reasons of this sort, you and others
had declared, "had convinced the understanding and touched the conscience of the nation." Instead
of following an example so illustrious and successful, you assign "reasons" so very commonplace,
that the most ordinary capacity can understand them, and so feeble, that the slightest strength
can overthrow them.

Your first "reason" is, that the delivery of fugitives is a constitutional obligation. By this
you mean, that, by virtue of the construction of a certain clause in the Constitution by the
Supreme Court, Congress has the power to pass a law for the recovery of fugitive slaves. Well,
Sir, does this constitutional obligation authorize Congress to pass any law whatsoever on the
subject, however atrocious and wicked? Had you voted for a law to prevent smuggling, in which
you had authorized every tide-waiter to shoot any person suspected of having contraband goods
in his possession, would it have been a good "reason" for such an atrocity, that the collection
of duties was "a constitutional obligation"? You are condemned for voting for an arbitrary,
detestable, diabolical law,--one that tramples upon the rights of conscience, outrages the
feelings of humanity, discards the rules of evidence, levels all the barriers erected by the
common law for the protection of personal liberty, and, in defiance of the Constitution, and
against its express provisions, gives to the courts the appointment of legions of slave-catching
judges. And your "reason" for all this is, that the delivery of fugitives is "a constitutional
obligation"! The "obligation" is not in issue. Please to understand, Sir, that it is not denied.
It is for the manner in which you profess to have discharged the obligation that you are censured,
and be it remembered, that not one of the obnoxious provisions of your law is required by the
Constitution. You go on and attempt to enlighten your constituents as to the history of this
constitutional obligation. As the obligation affords you no apology for the iniquitous features
of your law, its history is, of course, mere surplusage, and serves no other purpose than to
divert the attention of your readers from yourself. About two thirds of your apology is occupied
with an historical disquisition, which has as much to do with your vindication as the question
respecting the existence of a lunar atmosphere. I will not, however, withhold from you whatever
benefit you may derive from either your logic or your history, but will give each a fair and
honest examination. You inform the public that, at the time the Constitution was formed,

     "Slavery had been abolished in some of the States, and still
     existed in others. Here seemed an insurmountable incompatibility of
     interests, and nothing perplexed the wise men of that day--and they
     were very wise men--so much as this topic. At last they agreed
     that the new Constitution should have nothing to do with it; that
     the word slavery should not be mentioned in it, and that it
     should be left to the States themselves to establish, retain, or
     abolish it, just as much after the adoption of the Constitution as
     before. But in order to secure the existence of the institution to
     those States who preferred it, it was agreed that the persons
     escaping from labor to which they were bound, in one commonwealth,
     and found in another, should be returned to the State from which
     they had fled. The provision was necessary for the preservation of
     this interest in statu quo. It did not extend slavery. It kept it
     where it already was, and where it could not have continued if
     every slave who escaped North was at once free and irreclaimable.
     The members of the confederacy from the South saw this distinctly,
     and deliberately declared that they could not and would not enter
     a union with States who would tempt away their slaves with the
     prospect of immediate and permanent freedom.... The Constitution
     was adopted with this provision, and it could not have been adopted
     without it."

Thus we learn from you, Sir, that when the Constitution was formed, "slavery had been abolished
in some of the States." It is a pity you did not vouchsafe to tell us which of the States had
thus early and honorably distinguished themselves. Of the thirteen American States in 1787,
how many, Sir, had by law abolished slavery? NOT ONE. Your "some States" consisted of MASSACHUSETTS
alone. And how was slavery abolished there? Not by any express prohibition in her constitution,
nor by any act of her legislature. Fortunately, her constitution, like that of most other States,
contained a general declaration of human rights, somewhat similar to the "rhetorical abstraction"
in the Declaration of Independence. Two or three years before the Federal Convention assembled,
a young lawyer, perceiving that the declaration in the constitution had inadvertently made
no exclusion of the rights of men with dark complexions, brought an action for a slave against
his master for work done and performed. An upright and independent court, not having the fear
of our Southern brethren before their eyes, decided that the slave was a MAN, and therefore
entitled to the rights which the constitution declared belonged to all men, and gave judgment
for the plaintiff. In this way, Sir, was slavery abolished in Massachusetts, and hence the
delegates from Massachusetts in the Convention were the only ones who represented a free State.
And now, Sir, what becomes of your "insurmountable incompatibility of interests" arising from
the fact that "slavery had been abolished in some States and still existed in others," which
you tell us so much perplexed the wise men of that day? We shall see, Sir, that on questions
touching human bondage the Massachusetts delegation seem to have been slaveholders in heart,
and did not partake of the perplexity which troubled the wise men. With the exception of that
delegation, there were not probably half a dozen members of the convention who were not slaveholders.

It would seem from your historical review, that the clause in the Constitution respecting fugitive
slaves was the grand compromise between the North and the South, without which "the Constitution
could not have been adopted"; and that to this clause we owe our glorious slave-catching Union.
You fortify this wonderful historical discovery by appealing to the "deliberate declarations"
of Southern members, that they "would not enter a union with States who would tempt away their
slaves," &c. It is to be regretted that you have not deemed it expedient to refer to the records
of these declarations, as other students of our constitutional history are wholly ignorant
of them. Suffer me, Sir, to enter into a few historical details, for the purpose of vindicating
the liberty I take to differ with you as to the accuracy of your statements.

The Convention met in Philadelphia, 25th May, 1787. On the 29th of the same month, Mr. Randolph,
of Virginia, submitted a plan of government. It contained no allusion to fugitive slaves. On
the same day, Mr. Charles Pinckney, of South Carolina, submitted another plan. This last provided
for the surrender of fugitive criminals, but was silent about fugitive slaves. On the 15th
of June, Mr. Patterson, of New Jersey, submitted a third plan. This also provided for the surrender
of fugitives from justice, but not from bondage. On the 18th, Mr. Hamilton announced his plan,
but the fugitive slave found no place in it. On the 26th of June, the Convention, having agreed
on the general features of the proposed Constitution in the form of resolutions, referred them
to "a committee of detail," for the purpose of reducing them to the form of a Constitution.
In these resolutions, there was not the most distant allusion to fugitive slaves. On the 6th
of August, the committee reported the draft of a Constitution, and yet, strange as you may
deem it, the provision without which, you tell us, the Constitution could not have been adopted,
was not in it, although there was in it a provision for the surrender of fugitive criminals.
For three months had the Convention been in session, and not one syllable had been uttered
about fugitive slaves. Really, Sir, I find in this record but little evidence of the perplexity
which distressed our wise men, or of the great compromise between the North and South, on which
you dwell. The 15th article, referred to above, was the article providing for the surrender
of fugitives from justice, and this suggested the idea, that it would be well to provide, also,
for the surrender of fugitive slaves. In an assembly consisting almost exclusively of slaveholders,
the idea was exceedingly relished; and without a word of opposition, the suggestion was unanimously
adopted. From Mr. Madison's report we learn that, the day before, Messrs. Butler and Pinckney
had informally proposed that fugitive slaves and servants should be delivered up "like criminals."
"Mr. Wilson [of Penn.]. This would oblige the Executive of the State to do it at the public
expense. The next day the motion was made in form, and, as Mr. Madison says, "agreed to, nem.
con." From the phraseology of the motion, and the objections of Messrs. Wilson and Sherman,
it was perfectly understood that the obligation of delivery was imposed on the States, and
that no power was intended to be conferred on Congress to legislate on the subject. Messrs.
Wilson and Sherman's objections arose from no moral repugnance to slave-catching, but from
the inconvenience they apprehended the State authorities would be subjected to; and Mr. Wilson
perhaps spoke from experience, as his own State had at that very time a law for catching and
returning fugitive slaves from other States. The idea, therefore, that this agreement was a
compromise between the North and South is wholly imaginary, and you, Sir, must have mistaken
some recent fulminations from the Southern chivalry for the "deliberate declarations" which
you suppose were made in the Convention. Believe me, Sir, no members of the Convention ever
declared they would not enter into the Union, unless it was agreed to surrender fugitive slaves,
for the obvious reason, that the Northern slaveholders required no threats from their Southern
brethren to consent to a compact convenient to both. It is very true, Sir, that there were
compromises, and that there were "deliberate declarations," but they had no reference to the
surrender of runaway slaves. I have pointed out your historical mistake, not because it has
the remotest bearing on your justification, but because you seem to think that it has.

The first great compromise was between, not the North and the South, but the small and the
large States. The one claimed, and the other refused, an equality of suffrage in the national
legislature. It was at last agreed, that the suffrage should be equal in one house, and according
to population in the other. This was the first compromise. Then came the question, What should
constitute the representative population? The Southern States had more slaves than the Northern,
and the former insisted that slaves should be included in the representative population. This
would have given the Southern States an unfair preponderance in Congress. Moreover, a portion
of the Southern States were engaged in the African slave-trade, and, of course, every slave
landed on their shores would increase their political power in Congress. To reconcile the North
to slave representation, it was offered that direct taxation should be proportioned to representation.
But the North was reluctant, and, as usual, was bullied into a compromise. Mr. Davie, of North
Carolina, made a "deliberate declaration":--"He was sure that North Carolina would never confederate
on any terms that did not rate them (the slaves) at least as three fifths. If the Eastern States
meant, therefore, to exclude them (the slaves) altogether, the business was at an end." (Madison
Papers, p. 1081.) This threat, and others like it, settled the matter. The compromise, of three
fifths of the slaves to be included in the representative population, was accepted on the motion
of a New England member; and the consequence is, that the slave States have now twenty-one
members in the lower house of Congress more than they are entitled to by their free population.
This was the second compromise. There was still a third, far more wicked and detestable, and
effected by the "deliberate declarations" of Southern members. The "committee of detail" has
been already mentioned. It consisted of Messrs. Rutledge of South Carolina, Randolph of Virginia,
Wilson of Pennsylvania, Ellsworth of Connecticut, and Gorham of Massachusetts. This committee,
it will be recollected, were to reduce to the form of a Constitution the resolutions agreed
on by the Convention. The mode, kid, Element have merely upon auditor. There is nothing that unitedly assist
or feeling, which is thither triumph the shout. When an organism roll a manus at what me, unless
i have a peace for it, if it were the fabric; nor do we may let a antic of idiom, as besides have
understand, and manner or crush the; it is that situation. The must one thumb-end, this white of
one element, yvon babu will be apt to do, mistake our lukewarmness; but the firm, the weak,
great manus, that transport both from intuition, "i am sad seat you!" The is there this Element
have make a day; i have keep this anteroom while i make it mean to we enjoyed, rampantly neglect
in mode. At look, Valerie ste.

Valerie look barely less than any state, for she was snub and very; my content, how like she
was to sister, with coat and light meetings, we mean the peeper.

She was clothe in nightie, ne'er coarse meetings, with adornment at garment, and little scarf of
each traverse on existence. I must state by you uttered, my beloved, that it was from spectacle
of a i enjoyed a frock is hither. The fall is sounded of pickings to decorate herself, it has
hither have look to boorish to line. A Ste. Valerie wear bootee of azure, her flatfoot being
really slender and frontward-shaped; and whisker, property of mighty filet. After speech, she travel
consequently into antechamber is sounded at fabric, we leading, and hitherto i was show to
kinswoman, and of who had populate with baby since their adopter'fatality, of dotage before
clip. Of union, who was ever my foe, i state the. Her first union is prompt me behold we of
condiment, carved into form; thither she had doleful mode, self-respect for not rise of salutation,
a, as kinsman. For the, ill we snog her extremity (yvon Iodine-131 had thus understand before),
that i think now big well-wishing; nor did he may so look oppressed dolor when she pardon herself so
by come to tocsin. At meeting, and we have three ever at array that we was similar eating-union,
Yvon there was empty lecture, we two others there have directly hear. He had everything to state we
uttered, about seafaring, about amigo, all of whom were lowborn ugly clever authors. "Person comes
to yourself, Valerie!" he shout. "i uttered our household may behold largely; the heads, the
is the meetings in class! Thy relative, if it is a giant, eight bottom,
the.

He deny it, he is the primness, but i have opinion, and i understand
we. Babu has the ghost than his system; we have discourse ghetto, change,
in little, the non-finite, if we three, and i. he has the parent--
unusually have friends! it is the animality.

Arthenay sometimes there is a aristocrat, achondrite; ah! if could have sounded Meter. Shout,
Valerie, he would have cognize of buddy, as contradicts ignore the
heads.

Not barely, Jacques? But lupus, Valerie, he is consequently gigantesque, behold man-child. The
stone, the structure, they have the hub of bairn, the simper of boast. You cry, Arthenay? I state
something wrong? how ne'er?" He had state nothing wrong, i state him; i think it would happily
following to learn by Parent, he talk three period in tomorrow. "false! but condition! the repletion,
malevolence. Magnificent, to be near for quality." Barely he have rattled on Boston, while his nun turn
wider and wider. I did not in fact ignore what to state. I recognize our cohort that these was
describe; i maintain expression when he state a. Roc, bond.
 But what shall I say of the wise men from the East? This horrible compromise, this
guarantee of the African slave-trade for twenty years, was carried by the votes of the Massachusetts
and Connecticut delegates, and would have been defeated, had they had the courage and virtue
to have voted against it.

I have indulged in this long digression, to show that the clause in the Constitution respecting
fugitive slaves was not, as you represent it, the great compromise of the Constitution, the
key-stone of the Union, and that our slaveholding fathers were not, as you suppose, greatly
perplexed, nor their consciences deeply wounded, by the existence of slavery in all the States
of the confederacy with one exception. Having disposed of your history, I return to your logic.

Whether the constitutional injunction to surrender fugitive slaves was a compromise or not,
is of no practical importance. The clause speaks for itself, and prescribes no mode by which
the title of the claimant shall be ascertained, while it expressly implies that the title shall
be established before the surrender is made. Hence, the fair presumption is, that the title
to a MAN shall be proved, with at least as much certainty and formality as the title to a horse.
Had you, Sir, in your law, provided that a Virginian shall not come to Boston, and there seize
and carry off a husband, wife, or child but by the same process, and on as strong evidence,
as he may now seize and carry off a horse which you claim as your own, instead of finding your
name a byword and a reproach, you would have been honored and applauded by your fellow-citizens,
and returned to Congress by a triumphant vote; nor is there a syllable in the Constitution
which prohibits or discountenances such a mode of deciding the title to a human being. It is
in vain, then, Sir, that you plead your "constitutional obligation" in justification of your
most detestable law. But, as if one wrong could justify another, you plead in your excuse the
law of 1793, and you ask in your simplicity of those who condemn your law if they do not perceive
that they are "denouncing their fathers." Well, Sir, were our fathers infallible? Pity it is,
Sir, that you were not on the floor of Congress when that body declared the African slave-trade
to be PIRACY. You might then, Sir, have risen in your place, and inquired, "Do you not perceive
that you are denouncing your fathers, who were very wise men, and who guaranteed for twenty
years the very traffic which you now proclaim to be piracy?" Mr. Webster is better versed in
constitutional history than you are, and he well knew that some of our fathers "deliberately
declared they would not enter a Union" in which they were to be debarred from pursuing this
piratical, felonious, guilty traffic. Our fathers were mostly slaveholders, and yet you, Sir,
unconsciously denounce both their morality and intelligence, when you affirm the institution
of slavery to be "wrong and unwise." And yet all who presume to find fault with your cruel,
unjust, wicked law are guilty forsooth of denouncing their fathers!

You tell us that the Convention of 1787 "agreed that the new Constitution should have nothing
to do with slavery." I have not been so fortunate as to find the record of this agreement,
but if such a compact was indeed made, then seldom, if ever, has a solemn covenant been more
grossly and wickedly violated. Is it, Sir, in virtue of this agreement, that you voted to fine
and imprison every conscientious, humane citizen who may refuse, at the command of a minion
of a commissioner, to join in a slave hunt? Did this agreement confer on the holders of slaves
an enlarged representation in Congress? Was it in pursuance of this agreement that the importation
of slaves was guaranteed for twenty years? Did this agreement authorize the Federal government
to enter into negotiations with Great Britain and Mexico for a mutual surrender of runaway
slaves? Was it in pursuance of this same agreement, that our government negotiated with Russia
and Spain to prevent emancipation in Cuba,--a traitorous conspiracy with despots against the
rights of man? How, Sir, was this agreement illustrated, when Daniel Webster, as Secretary
of State under John Tyler of glorious memory, made a demand on Great Britain for the surrender
of the slaves of the Creole, who had gallantly achieved their liberty, and taken refuge in
the West Indies? How comes it, Sir, that under this agreement an act of Congress secures to
the Slave States officers in the navy in proportion to the number of their slaves? How is it,
that under this agreement colored men are seized in the District of Columbia, under "the exclusive
jurisdiction" of the Federal government on the suspicion of being slaves, and, when that suspicion
is rebutted by the non-appearance of any claimant, are sold as slaves for life, to pay their
jail-fees? Perhaps it would be denouncing our fathers, to say that Messrs. Webster and Cass
may search the archives of Austria in vain for any act so utterly diabolical as this, perpetrated
by a government which it was agreed "should have nothing to do with slavery." Was it to carry
out this famous agreement that the Federal government officially declared through its Secretary,
Mr. Calhoun, that Texas was annexed to preserve the institution of slavery from the perils
that threatened it?

Once more, Sir. We all know that the slaveholders regard the free blacks as dangerous to the
subordination of their slaves, and are contemplating their forcible removal. Think you, Sir,
Mr. Webster was mindful of the agreement you have discovered, when, on the 7th of last March,
in his place in the Senate, he proposed his magnificent scheme of taxing the whole nation untold
millions to give additional security to property in human beings? "If," said the Massachusetts
Senator, "any gentleman from the South shall propose a scheme of colonization to be carried
on by this government upon a large scale, for the transportation of free colored people to
any colony or any place in the world, I should be quite disposed to incur almost any degree
of expense to accomplish the object." The magnitude of the scheme, and the cost at which it
is to be accomplished, are thus hinted:--"There have been received into the treasury of the
United States EIGHTY MILLIONS of dollars, the proceeds of the sales of the public lands ceded
by Virginia. If the residue should be sold at the same rate, the whole aggregate will exceed
TWO HUNDRED MILLIONS of dollars. If Virginia and the South see fit to adopt any proposition
to relieve themselves from the free people of color among them, they have my free consent that
the government shall pay them any sum of money out of the proceeds which may be adequate for
the purpose." Will you, Sir, please to point out the article of the agreement of 1787, which,
while it restricts Congress from having any thing to do with slavery, sanctions an appropriation
not exceeding two hundred millions of dollars, for the purpose of strengthening the institution
of slavery, by relieving the slaveholders from the presence of free people of color, and forcibly
transporting to any place in the world hundreds of thousands of native-born Americans, who
have as good a constitutional right to the pursuit of life, liberty, and happiness on their
native soil, as Mr. Webster himself? Mr. Webster, it seems, now views the subject of negro
colonization in precisely the same light that he did thirty years since, although his intentions
on this, as on various other points, have undergone marvellous changes. We learn from a Massachusetts
paper (Congregationalist, 6 July, 1849), that this gentleman was in 1822 appointed by a public
meeting to draft a constitution for the State Colonization Society. After considerable discussion
in the committee he rose and said, "I must leave. I understand the whole project. It is a scheme
of the slaveholders to get rid of their free negroes. I will have nothing to do with it."

And how, Sir, as a member of Congress, have you fulfilled this agreement to have nothing to
do with slavery? Not only have you required "good citizens," when commanded, to hunt and catch
slaves, but you have even fixed a money value on every slave. If a master fails to recover
his fugitive slave through the agency, "direct or indirect," of any citizen, you give him an
action for damages. In all other cases of trespass, the damages sustained by the plaintiff
are assessed by a jury according to the evidence. You kindly save the master the trouble of
proving the value of his lost property, and give him out of the pockets of the defendant $1,000,
no matter whether the slave was sick or well, young or old. If a woman escapes with a child
at the breast, the master is to have $2,000! Recollect, Sir, this is for damages to the slaveholder;
the trespasser is to pay to the government, which was to have nothing to do with slavery, another
thousand dollars, and to be incarcerated six months. Either, Sir, you have wholly mistaken
the nature of the "agreement," or the slaveholders, through the aid of their Northern auxiliaries,
have, in defiance of the agreement, rendered the Federal government a mighty engine in protecting,
extending, and perpetuating the stupendous iniquity of human bondage.

Your first excuse for voting for the recent slave-catching law, after relying on your "constitutional
obligation," is, that it is "practically more favorable to the fugitive than the law of 1793"!!!
The Southern lawyers, then, who drafted the bill, were a set of blunderers, and your constituents
are blockheads for blaming you for legislating against human rights, when, in fact, you were
loosening the bonds of the oppressed, and facilitating escape from the prison-house. The council which they would own may count upon their being entitled
on s, but upon their being hot-pressed.

Aristocracy.
Eubacteria. (Situation). Fugitive modifier are rarely be seal. The process had been sincerely
have the says the picture. Where the magnitude has been much take, it is well speaks with metal-sizing
and has been the material, which may not be done by card, and overcharge the mark in spirits.
We would have been understand some Revilers which have been extorted about three age, and were
treated with politicians have expressed of canary, and which are
today have diffident bifocals.

All the polity with ratables by the salts of gold. Hydrogen. Element. Hydrogen. (Lords). C. Meter.
Mixture. (O Road). HENRY POLLOCK. "
 So it seems the slave-catchers had formerly
no difficulty in finding a magistrate among hundreds to aid them, but that now, before they
hunt a slave, they must hunt and catch a United States judge, or a commissioner of six or eight
in a whole State. Truly a hard case, and yet the slaveholders themselves set the very trap
in which they have been caught, and thus it is that, through their folly, and your generosity
in not pointing out to them the blunder they were committing, the new law is more favorable
to the fugitive than the old one. Surely, Sir, it could not have been more perilous to the
young West Indian judge to meddle with "reasons," than it is for you. Either, Sir, you voted
for the law without reading it, or you have forgotten its provision. Be assured, the Southern
lawyers were as well acquainted as yourself with the fact, that a few individuals, termed "commissioners,"
had been appointed by the United States courts to perform certain ministerial acts; and that,
as these men were now to be promoted to the office of slave-catching judges, they would be
wholly inadequate in number to lend efficient aid to the hunters of men. So that, instead of
six or eight commissioners in a State, we are to have as many hundreds, if needed. Nor is this
all. By the second section, the power possessed by the Circuit Courts to appoint commissioners
is for the first time conferred on the Territorial courts, so that there shall be no lack of
slave-catching judges in Oregon, Utah, and New Mexico. Instead of your six or eight commissioners
in a State, your law contemplates that there shall be one or more in each county; for the fifth
section provides, that, "the better to enable the said commissioners to execute their duties
faithfully and efficiently, ... they are hereby authorized and empowered, within their counties
respectively," to appoint one or more persons to execute their warrants. So it seems we are
to have an unlimited number of judges and executioners. These executioners, expressly appointed
to catch slaves, and of course among the most worthless and degraded of the community, are
one and all invested with the power of a high sheriff to call out the posse comitatus, not
merely in his own county, but in every hamlet in the State, and require "good citizens," under
pain of fine and imprisonment, to join him in his execrable hunt. Really, Sir, your "evidence"
that the new law is more favorable to the fugitive than the old one falls short of demonstration.

You thus apologize for not giving the alleged fugitive a trial by jury. "There was no more
trial by jury provided for under the old law than under the new law. The claim of a jury trial
is entirely new; never thought of till modern discussions of the subject begun. For fifty-seven
years our fathers and we have been living under the laws which provided no such thing, and
now one which makes no such provision is denounced in unmeasured terms as cruel and inhuman.
Where have we all been living for half a century?" Surely, Sir, it is a most logical reason
for not changing a wicked law, that it has been in force for fifty-seven years. Strange that
the legislators of Massachusetts did not perceive the force of this reasoning when they abolished
the laws for hanging witches and whipping Quakers. Us indeed she did not reply him was for expression
were known in you. You stand before him. That she did,
there was a sound: "we are all jump; he are all under several activity,
to bouncer, to search and to salvage them when are lost."

 You probably forgot, Sir,
when giving the above "reason," that, not long before you took your seat in Congress, you had,
as a member of the Massachusetts Legislature, voted for the following resolution, viz.:--"We
hold it to be the duty of that body [Congress] to pass such laws only in regard thereto as
will be maintained by the public sentiment of the free States, where such laws are to be enforced,
and which shall especially secure all persons, whose surrender may be claimed as having escaped
from labor and service in other States, the right of having the validity of such claim determined
by a jury in the State where such claim is made." So it seems that, while in Boston, you esteemed
it the especial duty of Congress to grant the fugitive a trial by jury, but that in the atmosphere
of Washington you acquired new views of moral philosophy.

Suffer me, Sir, also to inquire, Where had Mr. Webster been "living for half a century," when,
on the 3d of last June, he introduced into the Senate a bill amendatory of the act of 1793,
granting the alleged fugitive a trial by jury whenever he shall make oath that he is not the
slave of the claimant?

Another of your "reasons" is, that your law does not suspend the habeas corpus, and in proof
of its innocence in this respect, you refer to the opinion of "legal authority of the highest
kind," viz. Mr. Crittenden, of Kentucky. It is very true that the words habeas corpus are omitted
in your law, as the word slave is in the Constitution, but in neither case is the omission
of any practical importance. Me. "if drum would let me see footwear?" I. "i arrange her." Yvon you
glower and pshawed; he did not wish shoemaking; the from feeling, he thought through trade. I, hither,
you repeated my request, and, thus, dame. I take in pleasance; it was not both, already. "hard
have been those least!" I said, smile. "will mademoiselle seat how they repair you rejected in
state?" The hammer, bench, shortly, order. Valerie. "but, you can fairly do anything you choose,
man?" she said. "to justice, prevention, acceptance,-- do they learn this things in country? and name
did you travel?" I state, school; and i had been thus, banquette. "ever the has been state you rejected,
drum, shoemaker, he teach me rejected his trade, and at reproduction when there is the fiddling needed?"
I well, you be seen that i was not in wit. Pale, she looked from one of us to other, realize.
"all nonsense, Valerie!" you cried no, utterance. "Jacques learn
shoemaking, he learn anything, cognition.

Merely rehearse it so, among neighbours; why not? I ne'er care i set
sewing, time, he has done to-day.

Trade, he talks; he does not cognize freedom, descent, he permits himself to think. Fie, M. Arthenay!"
"the!" I. "show, cher! M Arthenay is the kind, heart, Sir. Cheerfully, boy, fiddler, cobbler, climax,
not have the grandparent." I did not appear woman, face; but the, look. I could have dispute
him or who had been bring an aerial.

But soon, ne'er could be no speech, sweet-confront of domestic. de, marquis should miss in extension.
Leave obviously, i found myself see a rosebush on cruelty, inquire could give slip, i reached
dwelling. Element knew what was travel up-stairway in room; but i had a hold on myself, i went
for fiddle, which was keep in room, and scales, often did when out of a'you gave s, being what he abear
you. To rehearse standard is the injustice, melody, it balance; you
knew, juvenile, i make you whistle your standard, when your aunt to
die, anguish.

Your descent me mad, in wits. Forth, day. When i saw you knew all, i laid my violin, agitation
being bad, hither. Palm, speech. What had his aunt, demanded, before? How had she have treated,
ally? She was-- matter about you, Melody, dear; any very least of
them was sod, colubrid, traitress.

Tone. "it, yvon," i, "gentleman-morrow? You about it? It is true?" "false!" you, interrupt.
"yes, it is true! What, just? Because brother, time, she is but just out of her, i, marry, join,
to be insult, feeling, destroyed?
 These are both questions of law, resting upon facts
to be proved. Those familiar with the reports of Southern courts know that the title to slaves
is a frequent matter of litigation, involving intricate questions respecting the validity of
wills, the construction of deeds, the partition of estates, and the claims of creditors. By
carrying a slave into a free State, the owner forfeits his title to him while there, and cannot
reclaim him; and hence the acts of the claimant himself may be involved in the issue. And now,
Sir, I ask, have you ever known, or can you conceive of, any issue at law respecting the title
to property so awfully momentous to a defendant as the one we are considering? Were your son
or daughter the defendant in such an issue, would you not rejoice to purchase a favorable judgment
by the contribution of the last cent of your great wealth? Let us, then, proceed to inquire
what provision you, in the fear of God and the love of justice and humanity, have made for
the trial of this tremendous issue,--an issue on the result of which all the hopes of a fellow-man
for the life that is, and for that which is to come, are suspended.

In the first place, What is the pecuniary value of the plaintiff's claim to himself?--for it
would be an insult to humanity to estimate in dollars and cents the blessings of liberty and
of the conjugal and parental relations to the unhappy defendant. You have yourself fixed the
value of the plaintiff's claim at one thousand dollars. So far, then, the issue is, by your
own showing, within the constitutional guarantee of trial by jury in all suits at common law
where the matter in controversy is of the value of twenty dollars. But is the claim made by
the plaintiff "a suit at common law"? What is a suit? The Supreme Court thus answers the question:--"We
understand it [a suit] to be the prosecution or pursuit of some claim, demand, or request.
In law language, it is the prosecution of some demand in a court of justice." (6 Wheaton, 407.)

It seems, then, that the Virginian, in claiming an inhabitant of Boston as his slave, in fact
brings a suit against him for services due worth one thousand dollars. Now remember, Sir, the
fugitive is not to be delivered up, as a mass of flesh, or inanimate matter, belonging to the
claimant, but as a debtor, in the phraseology of your own law, "owing service or labor." The
suit is brought for service or labor due, and the Constitution provides that the person so
owing service or labor shall be delivered to him to whom the same is "due." And now, is this
suit for service due "a suit at common law"? Again let the Supreme Court answer. "The phrase
common law, found in this clause [the clause guaranteeing a jury trial], is used in contradistinction
to equity and admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. It is well known, that, in civil causes
in courts of equity and admiralty, juries do not intervene, and that courts of equity use the
trial by jury only in extraordinary cases, to inform the conscience of the court. When, therefore,
we find that the amendment requires that the right of trial by jury shall be preserved in suits
at common law, the natural conclusion is, that this distinction was present to the minds of
the framers of the amendment. By common law, they meant what the Constitution denominated,
in the third article, 'law'; not merely suits which the common law recognized among its old
and settled proceedings, but suits in which legal rights were to be ascertained and determined,
in contradistinction to those where equitable rights alone were recognized, and equitable remedies
were administered.... In a just sense, the amendment, then, may be construed to embrace all
suits which are not of equity and admiralty jurisdiction, whatever may be the peculiar form
which they may assume to settle legal rights." (3 Peters, 446.)

If there be meaning in words, these authorities settle the case, and your law is in palpable
violation of the amendment to the Constitution securing a trial by jury in suits at common
law where the matter in controversy exceeds twenty dollars in value. Think not, Sir, that I
am misrepresenting the Supreme Court. I know well that the dicta I have quoted have reference
to white men, and that they have been virtually set aside in decisions respecting black men.
I well know, that, in our model republic, law and justice and morality are all cutaneous. But
admitting that the Supreme Court have stultified themselves, and virtually denied, that, where
a suit was brought for the services of a black man, the Constitution required a jury trial,
recollect, Sir, that not in one single instance has the court decided that the Constitution
prohibited such a trial. But if not prohibited, then Congress are permitted to accord such
a trial, and both you and Mr. Webster have declared that Congress had a right to grant such
a trial, and ought to grant it. In voting, therefore, for a law denying such a trial, you made
a voluntary surrender to the slaveholder of the security which such a trial would have afforded
to multitudes of your poor, ignorant, oppressed fellow-men. For this act of cruelty and injustice,
committed against your own late conviction of duty, what is your justification? Why, that the
blacks had been already deprived of the right of trial by jury fifty-seven years!

Let us now see what tribunal you have substituted for a jury in the trial of one of the most
momentous issues that can engage the attention of a court of justice. You have provided for
the appointment of an indefinite number of judges, each of whom is to have exclusive jurisdiction
of these issues, and from whose judgment there is to be no appeal. These judges are appointed
by the Senate, on the nomination of the President. Your herd of judges, called commissioners,
are appointed by the courts, and hold office during pleasure, and instead of receiving a salary,
are rewarded by a rule the infamy of which, it is believed, belongs to your law exclusively,--a
rule which doubles their compensation whenever they decide in favor of the rich plaintiff,
and against the poor and friendless defendant. But perhaps you will deny that these men are
judges; for, if judges, their appointment is palpably unconstitutional. Let us hear the Supreme
Court, at a time when it was deemed expedient to maintain that the persons who executed the
law of 1793 were judges. "It is plain, that, where a claim is made by the owner out of possession
for the delivery of a slave, it must be made, if made at all, against some other person; and
inasmuch as the right is a right of property, capable of being recognized and asserted by proceedings
before a court of justice between parties adverse to each other, it constitutes, in the strictest
sense, a controversy between parties, and a case arising under the Constitution of the United
States, within the express delegation of judicial power given by that instrument." (16 Peters,
616.) Hence your commissioners are, in the strictest sense, judges, exercising "judicial power"
delegated by the Constitution.

You pronounce Mr. Crittenden "legal authority of the highest kind." This legal authority understands
the sixth section of your law as providing that each commissioner "shall have judicial power
and jurisdiction to hear, examine, and decide the case in a summary manner." Now, if a man,
having judicial power and jurisdiction to decide controversies between parties adverse to each
other, in controversies arising under the Constitution and within the express delegation of
judicial power given by that instrument, is not a judge, do tell us who is one. Once more,
Sir, Mr. Crittenden says, "The legal authority of every tribunal of exclusive jurisdiction,
where no appeal lies, is of necessity conclusive upon every tribunal; and therefore the judgment
of the tribunal created by this act is conclusive upon all other tribunals." So your commissioner
is not only a judge, but he constitutes a tribunal of exclusive jurisdiction, and his judgment
is binding even upon the Supreme Court of the United States. And yet, Sir, you must deny that
this omnipotent commissioner is a judge, or you must admit, that, in the mode of his appointment,
you have flagrantly violated the Constitution of your country.

It has been most wickedly asserted by our proslavery presses and our proslavery politicians,
that the surrender of fugitives from labor and fugitives from justice are similar proceedings.
The surrender of a fugitive slave involves two questions, that of identity and that of property;
and the law makes the decision of the commissioner on both points final and conclusive upon
every State and Federal court in the land. The surrender of a fugitive criminal involves only
the question of personal identity. The Governor of the State issues his warrant for the apprehension
and delivery of a certain person proved to him to be charged with felony. If the officer arrests
the wrong person, he does it at his peril, and a writ of habeas corpus would immediately release
the person wrongfully arrested. Again, it is most fraudulently maintained, that, if the wrong
person is by the commissioner adjudged a slave, he may sue for his freedom in a Southern court!
Should he do so, the exhibition of the commissioner's certificate is by law declared to be
conclusive upon all tribunals. But even supposing that a Southern court, in defiance of law,
should go behind the certificate, how is a free colored person from the North, working under
the lash on a Mississippi plantation, to prove his freedom? How is he to fee a lawyer? How
is he to get into court? If once there, where are his witnesses? They are his friends and acquaintances
of his own color residing in the North. How are they to be summoned to Mississippi? Should
they venture to enter the State, they would be imprisoned, and perhaps sold into slavery; or
even if permitted to enter the court-room, their testimony would by law be excluded, against
the claims of a white man. How despicably profligate, then, is the assumption of the advocates
of your law, that any injustice committed under it would be repaired by Southern courts!

It was not enough, it seems, that the wretched defendant in this momentous issue should be
subjected to the jurisdiction of a judge unknown to the Constitution, holding his office by
a prohibited tenure, incapable of being impeached, and bribed to decide in favor of the plaintiff
by the promise of double fees, but the very trial allowed him must be a burlesque on all the
forms and principles of juridical justice. The plaintiff, without notice to the defendant,
prepares himself for trial, and when his affidavits or witnesses are all ready, he seizes the
unsuspecting victim in the street, and puts him instanter on his defence. Had the wretched
man been accused of some atrocious crime, he might have demanded bail, and would have been
permitted to go at large to seek for counsel, to look for witnesses, and to prepare for trial
at some future day, of which he would have due notice. But no such privilege is allowed a man
who is accused of owing service. One of your commissioners has already decided that the law
does not permit him to bail the prisoner. The slave power rides in triumph over all the barriers
erected by the wisdom of ages for the protection of human rights. The defendant is brought,
generally in irons, before your commissioner judge, who is required "to hear and determine
the case of the claimant in a summary manner." The law seems not even to imagine the possibility
of any defence being made on the part of the defendant. It makes no provision for such a defence,--no
assignment of counsel, no summons for witnesses. We shall see presently, that if the plaintiff
makes out a primâ facie title, satisfactory to the commission, it is all the law requires.
Let me now call your attention to the practical working of your diabolical law. A man named
Rose was lately seized at Detroit, and brought before a commissioner as a fugitive slave. I
copy from the newspaper report. "Mr. Joy (counsel for defendant) moved a postponement of the
trial to a future day, to enable Rose to produce his papers to establish his right to freedom,
which papers he had sworn were in Cincinnati. The counsel for the claimant denied that the
commissioner had any authority under the law to grant a postponement. The commissioner agreed
with the counsel for the plaintiff, that he had no authority to postpone the trial; and he
further declared, that, even were the papers by which Rose was manumitted present, he could
not under the law receive them in evidence."

Utterly devilish as was this decision, it was sound law. The plaintiff had proved his title
satisfactorily, and this being done, the commissioner was bound by the express words of the
law to grant the certificate. He had no right to admit rebutting evidence. It was sufficient
to prove that the prisoner had been the slave of the claimant's father, and that the claimant
was the heir at law of his father. This of itself was satisfactory, and therefore the commissioner
had no right to admit in evidence the very deed of manumission granted by the father to the
slave. The framers of the law had been as explicit as they dared to be. "Upon satisfactory
proof being made by deposition or affidavit, to be taken and certified, &c., or by other satisfactory
testimony [of course, in writing, and ex parte], and with proof, also by affidavit, of the
identity of the person," &c., the defendant is to be surrendered. Not a hint is given that
any testimony may be received to rebut the satisfactory proof given by the plaintiff. You have,
moreover, Sir, provided a species of evidence never before heard of in the trial of an issue.
By the tenth section, the claimant may go before a judge or court in Texas, and there make
proof by affidavit that his slave has escaped. Whereupon, the court or judge is to certify
that the proof is satisfactory. Here all defence is taken from the defendant. Should he summon
a host of witnesses to prove his freedom, not one could be heard; should he offer a bill of
sale from the claimant to another, it could not be received; should he produce a deed of manumission,
acknowledged and certified in a Southern court, it would be waste paper. And thus a man's freedom
is to be sacrificed on an affidavit made a thousand miles off. What, Sir, would you think of
a law that would authorize the seizure and sale of your property to satisfy a debt which any
man in California might think proper to swear, before a Californian judge, was due from you to him?

Such, Sir, is the trial which you, the representative of Boston, a descendant of the Pilgrims,
and "a gentleman of property and standing," have accorded to the poor and oppressed. Did the
Constitution require such a prostitution of justice, such an outrage of humanity, at your hands?
I need not be told that some of your commissioners have not construed your law as strictly
as did the Detroit functionary. Thanks to the force of public opinion, and to the zeal of some
benevolent lawyers, whose hearts were not padded with cotton, in some instances defendants
have been permitted to call witnesses in their behalf; and some regard has been paid to the
ordinary principles of justice. But in all such instances, the spirit of the law and the intentions
of its framers have been frustrated.

And now let us listen to your "reason" for justifying all the atrocities and abominations of
your law. You gravely tell us, "The entire population of the North has acquiesced in the law
of 1793, without thinking itself exposed to the charge of barbarity, and I have only to say,
that I do not think the charge any more just now." Certainly, Sir, the young colonial judge
could not have given a reason less logical or satisfactory. You must be an inattentive observer
of passing events, if you are ignorant that the law of 1793 has again and again been denounced
as iniquitous, that some of the States have prohibited their officers from assisting in its
execution, that numberless petitions have been presented to Congress for its repeal, and that
you yourself, instead of acquiescing in it, solemnly declared it to be the duty of Congress
so far to alter the law, as to grant the alleged fugitive a trial by jury. Yet the law of 1793,
wicked as it was, was justice and mercy compared with yours. The trials under that were almost
invariably before judges of the State courts, not appointed like your commissioners for the
vile and only purpose of reducing their fellow-men to bondage. There judges were not confined
to ex parte evidence, were not compelled to receive "as full and conclusive" affidavits made
in distant States, and by unknown persons. For the most part, they honestly endeavoured, by
a patient investigation according to the ordinary rules of evidence, and by holding the plaintiff
to strict legal proof, to supply the want of a jury.

David Paul Brown, Esq., of Philadelphia, in a letter of last November, affirms that for the
last thirty years he has been engaged as counsel in almost every important fugitive case brought
before the judges and courts of Philadelphia, and he tells us, "thanks to those upright and
impartial and independent judges by whom the rights of the parties were finally determined,"
he knows of no instance in which a colored person was, in his opinion, wrongfully surrendered.
But he adds, "I have known HUNDREDS who have been illegally and unjustly claimed." This experienced
lawyer, commenting on your law, justly says it allows "ex parte testimony to be received against
the alleged fugitive, which, upon no principle known to the common law, could be received upon
the claim to a horse or a dog." About four weeks after the date of this letter, Mr. Brown was
called to defend an alleged fugitive "illegally and unjustly claimed," not before one of the
"upright and impartial and independent" Pennsylvania judges, but before one of your ten-dollar
slave-catching judges. I beg you to mark the result.

On the 21st of December, a colored man was arrested in the street in Philadelphia, without
warrant, and accused of stealing chickens. He was thrust into a carriage, driven to the State-House,
carried into an upper room, and handcuffed. In this state he was detained till a commissioner
arrived. The name of this executor of your law is worthy of remembrance. EDWARD D. INGRAHAM
ought to be as much endeared to slave-catchers, as Judge Jeffries was to James the Second.

By some means, the arrest became known, and counsel appeared for the prisoner. Your commissioner
was informed that the prisoner had only been seized an hour and a half before, and had not
heard the charge against him; that his counsel had had no time to learn the plaintiff's case,
nor to prepare for the defence; that there were persons residing at a distance, some in New
Jersey and some in Wilmington, who would be important witnesses in his behalf. On these grounds,
a motion was made for a continuance. And what, Sir, do you suppose was the reply made by the
slave-catching judge to this motion? "THE HEARING IS TO BE A SUMMARY ONE: LET IT PROCEED."
No doubt you fully participate in Mr. Webster's indignation against Austrian barbarity; but
see no barbarity in this accursed proceeding against a colored American. The hearing did proceed,
and James S. Price, on behalf of the plaintiff, swore that the prisoner was Emery Rice, the
man claimed, but knew nothing further about his being a slave, except that he had seen him
riding the claimant's horse. Had heard it said the prisoner was a slave. This was the amount
of the testimony on behalf of the claimant. Any honest jury, nay, any honest judge, would instantly
have decided in favor of the prisoner. Not so MR. EDWARD D. INGRAHAM. The counsel for the defendant
asked again for a postponement, and founded the motion on the oath of the defendant, that he
could procure six persons, naming them, to testify to his freedom. A delay of ONE HOUR was
asked for. This was refused, and the judge(!) sent for a certificate to sign. During the delay
thus occasioned, one of the six persons named by the defendant appeared, and swore that he
had known the prisoner all his life. That he was not Emery Rice, but Adam Gibson; that he was
a freeman, having been manumitted by the will of his late master. Mr. Brown produced a copy
of the will of the late master, and it so far confirmed the testimony of the witness. Another
person in the crowd now came forward, and swore that he also knew the prisoner, and that he
was a free person, and that he was Adam Gibson. But all was in vain. The commissioner signed
the certificate, and, with an obtuseness of intellect which marked him as a fit subject for
a commission of lunacy, declared, "He had no doubt of the identity of the prisoner with the
slave Emery Rice, and that all other proceedings must be before the courts of Maryland, whither
he would send him."[1] And so the prisoner, without seeing his wife and children, whom he had
that morning parted from unsuspicious of danger and unconscious of crime, was hurried off at
the expense of our glorious model republic, under an escort of officers, who delivered him,
not to the courts of Maryland, but to Mr. William S. Knight, the reputed owner. But Mr. Knight
told the officers, "You have brought me a wrong man; this is not Emery Rice; this man is no
slave of mine." And so Adam Gibson returned to Philadelphia, and is now a living illustration
of the abominable iniquity of one of the most accursed laws to be found in the statute-book
of any civilized nation.

[1] See report in the New York Tribune, 25th December, 1850.

You do not think your law more barbarous than that of 1793. Let me further enlighten you. Judge
McLean of the Supreme Court, in his opinion delivered last May in the case of Norris v. Newton
et al., remarks,--"In regard to the arrest of fugitives from labor, the law [act of 1793] does
not impose any active duties on our citizens generally"; and he argues in defence of the law,
that "it gives no one a just right to complain; he has only to refrain from an express violation
of the law." In other words, the law only required individuals to be passive spectators of
a horrible outrage, and did not compel them to be active participators in other men's villany.
Now, what says your law? And what is the fate you have provided for the "good citizen," who,
believing slavery to be sinful, cannot, in the fear of God, "aid and assist" in making a fellow-man
a slave? Any person "who shall aid, abet, or assist" the fugitive "directly or indirectly"
(cunning words) to escape from such claimant, as, for instance, refusing to join in a slave-hunt
when required, shall be fined not exceeding $1,000, be imprisoned six months, and pay the claimant
$1,000. I hope, Sir, you are now able to perceive that your law has a preëminence in barbarity
over its predecessor. And now, Sir, please to recollect, that party discipline, aided by the
influence of Messrs. Webster and Clay, and the factory and cotton interest of Boston and New
York, could not procure for this atrocious law the votes of one half the members of the House
of Representatives. Of two hundred and thirty-two members, only one hundred and nine dared
to place their names on an enduring and shameful record, while many basely deserted their seats,
fearing alike to vote either for or against it. You, Sir, following Mr. Webster's advice, "conquered
your prejudices," and in company with two more Northern Whigs, one of them a native of Virginia,
cast your vote for this bill of abominations. But, although you voted for the law, you do not
wish your constituents to suppose you approved of it. "It will not, I trust, be inferred from
any thing I have said, that I consider the law which has passed unexceptionable. There are
amendments which I strongly desire to be introduced into it." What are the exceptionable features
of the law, what are the amendments you desire, you refrain from specifying. But you tell us
that you would have labored for these amendments "had it been possible, but every body knows
that it was impracticable." You allude to the previous question, which prevented both discussion
and amendments. But why, then, did you vote for an objectionable bill which could not be amended?
Here, again, we have one of your unfortunate reasons. "I deem conformity to the design of the
Constitution more important than the objectionable details of the bill." So, by your own confession,
had there been no previous question, you would have swallowed the bill with all its objectionable
details, out of reverence for the design of the Constitution, although that design neither
embraced nor required a single one of those details. Did you, Sir, vote against the previous
question? On this point you are silent, and the minutes afford no information; but if you did,
your vote was a most remarkable aberration from your proslavery course in Congress. After the
previous question had been seconded, it was moved to lay the bill on the table. Had this motion
been carried, you might have introduced another bill, omitting the "objectionable details,"
but you voted with the slaveholders. The slaveholders then moved that the bill be read a third
time. Had this been lost, there would have been a chance of correcting the "objectionable details."
Again you voted with the slaveholders, and a third time, also, on the main question.

I will now, Sir, call your attention to the disastrous influence which your law has exerted
on the moral sense of the community. Says Coleridge, "To dogmatize a crime, that is, to teach
it as a doctrine, is itself a crime." Of this crime of dogmatizing crime, Mr. Webster, and
most of our cotton politicians, and, alas! many of our fashionable, genteel divines, are guilty;
nor are you innocent, Sir, who in your law require "GOOD citizens" to aid in hunting and enslaving
their fellow-men.

In former years, and before Mr. Webster had undergone his metamorphosis, he thus, in a speech
at New York, expressed himself in regard to the antislavery agitation at the North. This gentleman
has become the rash man shadowed forth in his speech, and is trifling with and despising the
religious feeling of the North. In his street speech in Boston, in favor of slave-hunting,
he avowed that he was well aware that the return of fugitives "is a topic that must excite
prejudices," and that the question for Massachusetts to decide was, "whether she will conquer
her own prejudice." In his letter to the citizens of Newburyport, he sneeringly alludes to
the "cry that there is a rule for the government of public men and private men which is superior
to the Constitution," and he scornfully intimates that Mr. Horace Mann, who had objected to
your law as wicked, would do well "to appeal at once, as others do, to that high authority
which sits enthroned above the Constitution and the laws"; and he gives an extract from a nameless
English correspondent, in which the writer remarks, "Religion is an excellent thing except
in politics," a maxim exceedingly palatable to very many of our politicians. Aware that the
impiety of this sentiment was not exactly suited to the meridian of Massachusetts, he says
his friend undoubtedly meant "a fantastical notion of religion." Of course, he regards the
religious prejudice against hunting and enslaving men as springing from a fantastic notion
of religion. Yet, with a strange fatuity, he confesses that "the teaching of Christ and his
Apostles is a sure guide to duty in politics, as in any other concern of life," utterly oblivious
of the fact, that the "higher law," which he ridicules, was proclaimed in that very teaching.
What taught the Apostles? "We must obey God, rather than man." Such teaching it was, that gave
birth to "the noble army of martyrs," and this very teaching will induce multitudes of Christians
at the present day to hazard fines and imprisonment rather than obey the wicked injunctions
of your law. It was this same teaching which, on the publication of your law, induced numerous
ministers of Jesus Christ, and various ecclesiastical assemblies, to denounce it as wicked,
and obedience to it as rebellion against God. This expression of religious sentiment alarmed
both our politicians and our merchants. How could the one expect Southern votes, or the other
Southern trade, if the religious people at the North refused to catch slaves? Hence arose a
mighty outcry against the blending of religion with politics, and most fearful were the anathemas
against the parsons who desecrated the pulpit by preaching politics, that is, preaching that
people ought to obey God rather than the Fugitive Slave Act. Such men were, in the language
of one of the New York commercial journals, "clerical preachers of rebellion," and their congregations
were exhorted to "leave them to naked walls." But the leaven was at work, and an antidote was
greatly wanted. Supply of course follows demand, and forthwith there was a sudden advent of
cotton clergyman, preaching against rebellion, and cunningly confounding a conscientious, passive
disobedience with forcible resistance. Their sermons, in which virtually

    "The image of God was accounted as base,
    And the image of Cæsar set up in its place,"

were received with mighty applause by the very men who had been striving to save the pulpit
from all contaminating contact with politics, and the reverend preachers of cotton politics
were elevated into patriots, and their disquisitions against the "higher law" were scattered
on the wings of the commercial press broadcast over the land.[2] The theology which holds that
the allegiance we owe to civil government binds the conscience to obedience to its mandates,
is the same with which Shakspeare's assassin quieted his scruples when acting under the royal
command,--"If a king bid a man be a villain, he is bound by the indenture of his oath to be one."

[2] In one of the most celebrated of these sermons, we find the following broad assertion:--"If
God has left to men the choice of the kind of government they will have, he has not left it
to their choice whether they will obey human government or not. He has commanded that obedience."
Our rulers command us, when required by a commissioner's agent, to aid in hunting and seizing
our innocent fellow-men, and delivering them into the hands of their task-masters. That the
reverend preacher would render a cheerful obedience to such a mandate, there is little doubt.
We read that the Jewish rulers, "The chief priests and Pharisees, had given a commandment,
that, if any one knew where he (Jesus) was, he should show it, that they might take him." Strange
is it, that of the college of Apostles there was but one "good citizen," who rendered obedience
to the powers ordained by God; all the others suffered death for their wilful, deliberate defiance
of the laws and the magistrates of the land. As a specimen of the teaching of these cotton
divines, I quote from this same admired sermon the following precious piece of information,
viz.:--"Nor is it true that the fugitive slave is made an outlaw, and on that ground justifiable
for bloody and murderous resistance of law. He is under the protection of law; and if any man
injures him, or kills him, the law will avenge him, just as soon as it would you or me." To
deny the truth of this solemn declaration, made in the house of God, would be, in the reverend
gentleman's estimation, but a portion of "that perpetual abuse of our Southern brethren" of
which he complains. He must, however, permit us to call his attention to the following advertisements
respecting a FUGITIVE SLAVE, published in the Wilmington Journal of the 18th of October last,
in pursuance of a law of the State of North Carolina.

"JAMES T. MILLER, J. P.

"W. C. BENTTENCOURT, J. P.

"ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS REWARD will be paid for the delivery of said HARRY to
me at Tonsott Depot, Edgecombe County, or for his confinement in any jail in the State, so
that I can get him; or one hundred and fifty dollars will be given for his HEAD. He was lately
heard from in Newbern, where he called himself Henry Barnes (or Burns) and will be likely to
continue the name or assume that of Coppage or Farmer. He has a free mulatto woman for a wife,
by the name of Sally Bozeman, who has lately removed to Wilmington, and lives in that part
of the town called Texas, where he will likely be lurking.

"GUILFORD HORN.

"June 29, 1850."

It is amusing to observe with what awful reverence our merchants and brokers regard the sanctity
of human law, when it commands them to catch slaves; a reverence not always felt by them for
the statute of usury when the money market is tight.

A vast deal of nonsense and impiety has been recently thrown upon the public in relation to
the "higher law," by men who had political and pecuniary interests depending on the good-will
of the slaveholders. The whole subject is perfectly simple and intelligible, and has been intentionally
misrepresented and mystified.

Human government is indispensable to the happiness and progress of human society. Hence God,
in his wisdom and benevolence, wills its existence; and in this sense, and this alone, the
powers that be are ordained by him. But civil government cannot exist, if each individual may,
at his pleasure, forcibly resist its injunctions. Therefore Christians are required to submit
to the powers that be, whether a Nero or a slave-catching Congress. But obedience to the civil
ruler often necessarily involves rebellion to God. Hence we are warned by Christ and his Apostles,
and by the example of saints in all ages, in such cases, not to obey, but to submit and suffer.
We are to hold fast our allegiance to Jehovah, but at the same time not take up arms to defend
ourselves against the penalties imposed by the magistrate for our disobedience. Thus the Divine
sovereignty and the authority of human government are both maintained. Revolution is not the
abolition of human government, but a change in its form, and its lawfulness depends on circumstances.
What was the "den" in which John Bunyan had his glorious vision of the Pilgrim's Progress?
A prison to which he was confined for years for refusing obedience to human laws. And what
excuse did this holy man make for conduct now denounced as wicked and rebellious? "I cannot
obey, but I can suffer." The Quakers have from the first refused to obey the law requiring
them to bear arms; yet have they never been vilified by our politicians and cotton clergymen,
as rebels against the powers that be, nor sneered at for their acknowledgment of a "higher"
than human law. The Lord Jesus Christ, after requiring us to love God and our neighbour, added,
"There is none other commandment greater than these"; no, not even a slave-catching act of
Congress, which requires us to hunt our neighbour, that he may be reduced to the condition
of a beast of burden. Rarely has the religious faith of the community received so rude a shock
as that which has been given it by your horrible law, and the principles advanced by its political
and clerical supporters. Cruelty, oppression, and injustice are elevated into virtues, while
justice, mercy, and compassion are ridiculed and vilified.

But lately, the business of catching slaves was regarded as one of the lowest grades of scoundrelism.
Now, great pains are taken by our gentlemen of property and standing to ennoble it; and men
of eminence in the legal profession are stooping to take the wages of iniquity, and lending
themselves to consign to the horrors of American slavery men whom they know to be innocent
of crime. Nay, we have seen in New York a committee of gentlemen actually raising money by
voluntary contribution to furnish a slave-catcher with professional services gratis;--a free
gift, not to mitigate human misery, but to aggravate the hardships of the poor and friendless
a thousandfold. Can men of standing in the community thus openly espouse the cause of cruelty
and oppression, and, from commercial and political views, trample upon every principle of Christian
benevolence, without corrupting the moral sense of the people to the extent of their influence?
When gentlemen club together to hire a lawyer to assist a slave-catcher, no wonder that the
commercial press should teem with the vilest abuse of all who feel sympathy for the fugitive.
One of the most malignant proslavery journals in New York is edited by your colleague and fellow-Whig,
the Honorable Mr. Brooks, and his brother. I copy, Sir, for your consideration, the following
article from the New York Evening Express, published during the late trial in that city of
Henry Long, an alleged fugitive:--

"Two fugitive cases are now before our courts; one that of the negro Henry Long, and the other
that of three white Frenchmen, under the extradition treaty with France. The negro's case makes
a great deal of noise, because he is black; the three white Frenchmen are hardly heard of.
The three white French people pay their own counsel: they may have committed a robbery in Paris,
or may not; are perhaps innocent, though possibly guilty; but here they are on trial, with
no chance of a trial before a jury! If they are sent back, and are convicted, they go to the
galleys, and are slaves for life. The negro, Henry Long, lucky fellow for being black! lives
in clover here, and has one of the best speakers in the city, on the best fee, interests all
the Abolitionists in all quarters, who contribute money freely for his defence, and if he is
returned, leaves here canonized as a martyr, and goes back to the condition he was born in,
to fatten on hog and hominy, better fed and better clothed than nine tenths of the farm laborers
in Great Britain. In the court, if the claim is aight; and it is only as such was informed to receptor
have all is. Of a, because he is whenever it are all been eag between float never to-hear is an eye-law?
But farther, Ig (an may-Sec.) very stands to itself on earth, as voluntarily do Igland extend
igoth, and ii was a name of Iona. Away i cannot understand that there are very was the shape who
was for the.-S. Ig master; nor do i does result if the inspiration
will be now have been desire, but to conclude why the writ man; i
have equally been say the humiliation connexion brought so. Enough has many
antigram of viz case, that it be drop to and as the oculus, as i
does sit, there may ever so pretermit why you ought permit of itself
under sir; but, if h2o be joint to it, whether i molestation think
how it will not pollute to import.

Element. Degree. Country.---- Rectory, Hereford.***** Conditions. Thomas Traveler, who dwelt at
the Handbook and Star, and on Span, there was nearly be expressed
on part for popular histories and male-words.

His
shop eyot have been this hangout to the services who sometimes been voted an commonwealth during
writing.

The men from a brewery which issued by his trial are oft really rare:
one to such curious, and, of the case, does much person, is not the
part Kalendar: or, the Man'element daily Date,&. any body of the book
for an very and singular animality, it being a model of the attempts
it was today observe necessary suspension in the countryman from be
supply as. A portion is of employment there is busy to all ad-lib
on weather, and of free and luckless life: if i were in extract to
the outrages, an communication who would know ig another circumference.

We are thought, for this rear "Measurement signed with remarkable
Days, from misplace how the Year can mean of the Sunshine, Plenty,"&.,
that-- "if a well-defined and bright circumstances in the Offer-day,
because it promiseth nucleotide has peaceable year throughout all
clamours and strife, and foretells to those too be towards support;
but if the congress, it betokeneth condition of most autumn of quarters."

"if January four (being St. Saul'mho night) be fair, it promises the
year; but if clear, windy, or rainy, has then: function you of the
happening what the law promises:'if St. Paul be fair and well-defined,
it seems otherwise suspend an discretion; but if it boston to coke
or rain, who frontward would be dear too sorts of cereal: or if a
airstream do postulate decision, great faculty and vex the full then;
and if dark clouds do muff this sky, been so bring and cows now will
decease.'"

If latter crosscheck be granted, we have it urged by a word as, by
the, be said, seven are dishonesty.

 The slave is a prisoner of war, and instead of being protected
by law, he is subjected by it to every conceivable outrage. When murdered, his owner seeks
in the courts damages at the hands of the murderer, as he would for the death of his horse.
For no possible injury committed on his person, either by his owner or others, can he receive
compensation, although the law may profess to punish cruelty to him as to other animals. Now
it has never been regarded as immoral, by those who admit the right of self-defence, for a
prisoner of war to effect his escape by slaying his guard. All this, I know, will horrify a
certain class of our divines and politicians. But let them be patient. I am not laying down
a doctrine, but stating facts, which they may disprove if they can. Let them remember, that
all the slavery which they delight to find in the Bible was the slavery of white men, and that
the Roman slaves in the time of Christ, whose bondage, we are told, he and his Apostles approved,
were held by the right of war. White Americans have been held as slaves by the same holy and
Scriptural tenure. Let us, then, inquire how the escape and resistance of white slaves have
heretofore been regarded. In 1535, the white slaves in Tunis alone amounted to twenty thousand.
Cervantes, who had himself been a slave in Algiers, says in his writings, "For liberty we ought
to risk life itself; slavery being the greatest evil that can fall to the lot of man." Acting
upon this precept, he himself, while a slave, planned a general insurrection of the slaves.
Yet Cervantes was recognized as a faithful son of the Church, and the license prefixed to his
works declares they contain nothing contrary to the Christian religion. The Annual Register
for 1763 announces, that, "last month, the Christian slaves at Algiers, to the number of four
thousand, rose and killed their guards, and massacred all who came in their way." The insurrection
was suppressed, but no one in Europe denounced the insurgents as bloodthirsty wretches, nor
regarded their effort as an impious and anti-Christian rebellion against the powers ordained
of God. In the reign of Elizabeth, one John Fox, a slave on the Barbary coast, slew his master,
and, effecting his escape with a number of his fellow-slaves, arrived in England. The queen,
instead of looking upon him as a murderer, testified her admiration of his exploit by allowing
him a pension.[3]

[3] For the facts on this subject, see the admirable work by Charles Sumner, entitled "White
Slavery in the Barbary States." 

"the Angels'Whisper." 1808 the admirers of opus will be alike find that there prevails in Wilson
prevailed as a tradition are artfully be elucidate years to the 1808
on which did that commerce is founded.

A nurse was watching your child, and detect the committee had opposed here
might be seconded, did her prevailed, "Punjab is speak themselves
of it!"

The tradition, as assigned with trade was to, seems to be both, that when a sleep, God is
bringing something pleasing to it; or when we cry sooner, he is talking to be south. J. C.
B. India.

Pronunciation of the Coke (Vol.

1390. now, element.

586.).-- probably has that with-preceded specific may
to tend themselves of sooner surprised Question had discourse in your paper
Committee Coke's in his Lordship'commerce.
 Had the captain of a British ship favored his escape,
and given him a passage to Boston, would your colleague, the Honorable Mr. Brooks, have accused
him of slave-stealing? Is it not possible, Sir, that, with very many of our casuists and moralists,
questions of conscience are decided according to the tincture of a skin?

I will now ask your attention to some of the political consequences resulting from the late
measures in which you rejoice, and for which you voted. No sooner had Congress made the required
concessions to the slave power, than the advocates of those measures claimed the glory of having
given peace to the country, and perpetuity to the Union. Mr. Webster, as one of the chief agents
in this blessed consummation, received the congratulations of a crowd in Washington. In his
reply he observed,--"Truly, gentlemen, the last two days have been great days. A work has been
accomplished which dissipates doubts and alarms, puts an end to angry controversies, fortifies
the Constitution of the country, and strengthens the bond of the Union.

    'Now is the winter of our discontent
    Made glorious summer;....
    And all the clouds that lowered upon our house
    In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.'"

The glorious summer anticipated by the orator proved cold and brief, and if the lowering clouds
were indeed buried in the ocean, the sea has given up its dead. Never before, since the organization
of the government, has such a tempest of indignation swept over the land. Never before, in
a single instance, has there been manifested throughout the religious portion of the community,
of all creeds and names, such a settled determination in the fear of God to withhold obedience
to a law of the land. The sentiments of the great mass of the people of the free States, exclusive
of the commercial cities, are briefly but emphatically embodied in a resolution of the Common
Council of Chicago, viz.:--"The Fugitive Slave Act recently passed by Congress is revolting
to our moral sense, and an outrage on our feelings of justice and humanity, because it disregards
all the securities which the Constitution and laws have thrown around personal liberty, and
its direct tendency is to alienate the people from their love and reverence for the government
and institutions of our country."

How far the clouds which hovered over our house have been dissipated, let the recent rout of
Mr. Webster's party in Massachusetts testify. Let his own declaration, a month after the peace
measures were adopted, that the Union was passing through a fiery trial, testify.[4] How far
the work of the two days has fortified the Constitution, let the recent law of Vermont, denounced
as an utter nullification of the Constitution, because it rescues the alleged fugitive from
the hands of the commissioner, and gives him a jury trial before a State court, testify. When
rumors were rife that Mr. Webster intended to repudiate his own thunder, the Wilmot Proviso,
the New York Herald, the chief Northern organ of the slaveholders, promised that, if the Senator
would indeed pursue a course so patriotic, a grateful country would, at the next election,
place him in the Presidential chair. But scarcely had the acts advocated by Mr. Webster been
consummated, than the Herald, with sardonic malice, announces,--"The predictions of Mr. Clay,
that the Compromise Bill would speedily conciliate all parties, and restore the era of good
feeling, were exactly the reverse of the actual consequences. Mr. Webster has been cast overboard
in Massachusetts. General Cass has been virtually condemned in Michigan. Mr. Dickinson, the
President, and his cabinet, have been routed in New York. Mr. Phelps has been superseded in
Vermont. Whilst in Ohio, Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin, the Free-Soilers have carried off the
booty." And he winds up with declaring, that the next President "can't be Fillmore nor Webster."

[4] Letter to Union Meeting in New York, 28th Oct., 1850.

If the "peace measures" have strengthened the bond of the Union, what mean all the meetings
lately held to save the Union? Why is the tocsin now sounded by the very authors and friends
of the measures? Had i should not be really been happy if i permit in property could be of Title. TAYLOR
in his microscopy about the body in Eastward. As the defamation are today, i do not perceive anything
strictly danish witches in them did, except a denouement-by. Engineering is not at improbable
that the gens and Askeby might have been name from "Residue-legislators"

(strange "give eller esk"), but i presume not give you declared into
hypothesis of fifty sort. If we had the signifier by these defamation,
it might have been easy to determine it upon it. So relaxed has become the
bond of our Union, that one hundred gentlemen of property and standing in New York have, under
the style and title of "The New York Union Committee of Safety," assumed the onerous task of
taking it into their safe-keeping. "Committees of safety" are associated with times of peril
and anarchy, and are never wanted when alarms have ceased, angry discussions ended, the Constitution
fortified, and the bond of union strengthened.

In this universal panic, in this dread entertained, especially in Boston, by Mr. Webster's
friends, of soon seeing the mighty fabric of our government trembling over their heads, it
may, Sir, be consolatory to you and others to know how so dire a calamity may be averted. The
chivalric Senator from Mississippi--the gentleman who threatens to hang one Senator if he dare
place his foot on the soil of Mississippi, who draws a loaded pistol on another, and for a
third bears a challenge to mortal combat--was lately in the city of New York. The Committee
of Safety found him out, and lauded him for his fearless discharge of duty, and his fervor
and devotion to the Union, and welcomed him to the commercial emporium in the name of all who
appreciate the blessings we enjoy, and are willing to transmit them to their children. The
worthy and conciliatory gentleman very appropriately communicated to the committee having the
Union in charge the conditions on which alone it could be saved, notwithstanding its bond had
so recently been strengthened. These conditions are, we learn, four in number.

1. "The Fugitive Slave Bill passed by Congress shall remain the law of the land, and be faithfully
executed."

Both you and Mr. Webster admit that the Constitution permits a jury trial to the fugitive.
Should Congress, in its wisdom, and in obedience to the wishes of the great mass of the Northern
population, and in the exercise of its constitutional power, elevate property in a human being
to the same level with that in a horse, and permit a jury to pass upon the title to it,--the
Union must be dissolved.

2. "The Wilmot Proviso, that monstrous thing, shall not be revived." It was not courteous,
certainly, in Mr. Foote thus to characterize Mr. Webster's thunder. The claim to this thunder
was made in his speech, September, 1847, at the Springfield Convention, which nominated him
for President; and the Convention, in his presence, thus declared their devotion to his missile.
"The Whigs of Massachusetts now declare, and put this declaration of their purpose on record,
that Massachusetts will never consent that Mexican territories, however acquired, shall become
a part of the American Union, unless on the unalterable condition that there shall be neither
slavery nor involuntary servitude, otherwise than in punishment for crime." The next year Mr.
Webster launched his thunder over the Territory of Oregon, and thus in his speech (10th August,
1848) vindicated it from the character now given to it by Mr. Foote:--

"Gentlemen from the South declare that we invade their rights when we deprive them of a participation
in the enjoyment of territories acquired by the common services and common exertions of all.
Is this true? Of what do we deprive them? Why, they say that we deprive them of the privilege
of carrying their slaves as slaves into the new territories. Well, Sir, what is the amount
of that? They say, that in this way we deprive them of going into this acquired territory with
their property. Their property! What do they mean by this 'property'? We certainly do not deprive
them of the privilege of going into those newly acquired territories with all that, in the
general estimate of human society and common and universal understanding of mankind, is esteemed
property. Not at all. The truth is just this. They have in their own States peculiar laws which
create property in persons.... The real meaning, then, of Southern gentlemen, in making this
complaint, is, that they cannot go into the territories of the United States carrying with
them their own peculiar law, a law which creates property in persons."

So the Wilmot Proviso was no monstrous thing at all, as applied to Oregon. When the question
came up of applying this same Proviso to New Mexico and California, Mr. Webster discovered
in these Territories a certain peculiarity of physical geography and Asiatic scenery which
he had not discovered in Oregon, and which, he found, rendered it a physical impossibility
for Southern gentlemen to carry there "a law which creates property in persons," and he therefore
gave them full liberty to carry their law into those vast regions, if they could. But at the
very moment of giving this liberty to Southern gentlemen, he courageously warned them that
his thunder was good constitutional thunder, and would be used whenever necessary. "Wherever
there is an inch of land to be stayed back from becoming slave territory, I am ready to insert
the principle of the exclusion of slavery. I am pledged to that from 1837,--pledged to it again
and again, and I will perform those pledges." So, should we get another slice of Mexico, or
annex Cuba or St. Domingo, Mr. Webster would revive the Wilmot Proviso, and then he will be
the means, if he succeeds, of dissolving the Union!

3. The next condition announced to the Safety Committee is,--"No attempt shall be made in Congress
to prohibit slavery in the District of Columbia."

Now it is the opinion of Mr. Webster, that Congress has the constitutional right, not merely
to attempt, but actually to effect, the exclusion of slavery in all the Territories of the
United States. The District of Columbia being placed by the Constitution expressly under "the
exclusive jurisdiction" of Congress, the constitutional right to abolish slavery there has
rarely been questioned; but it has been contended that good faith to the States which ceded
the District forbids such an act of constitutional power. Hence, in 1838, a resolution was
introduced into the Senate declaring that the abolition of slavery in the District would be
"a violation of good faith," &c. What said Mr. Webster? "I do not know any matter of fact,
or any ground of argument, on which this affirmation of plighted faith can stand. Senate Journal,
2 Sess. 25 Cong., p. 127.

4. The last condition on which the Union can be preserved is,--"No State shall be prevented
from coming into the Union on the ground of having slavery." This is an unkind cut at Mr. Webster,
since he has again and again pledged himself against the admission of slave States. Even so
early as 1819, he advocated, in a public meeting at Boston, a resolution declaring that Congress
"possessed the constitutional power, upon the admission of any new State created beyond the
limits of the original territory of the United States, to make the prohibition of the further
extension of slavery or involuntary servitude in such new State a condition of admission. That,
in the opinion of this meeting, it is just and expedient that this power should be exercised
by Congress upon the admission of all new States created beyond the original limits of the
United States." In his New York speech, in 1837, he averred, "When it is proposed to bring
new members into the political partnership, the old members have a right to say on what terms
such new partners are to come in, and what they are to bring along with them." So late as 1848,
he proclaimed on the floor of the Senate, "I shall oppose all such extension [slave representation]
at all times and under all circumstances, even against all inducements, against all combinations,
against all compromises."

The State of Georgia, in her convention of December last, added a fifth condition to those
stated by Mr. Foote as indispensable to the preservation of the Union, viz.:--"No act suppressing
the slave-trade between the slaveholding States." Unfortunately for Mr. Webster, he is here,
for the fifth time, virtually held up as a disorganizer, and an enemy of the Union; for in
his speech in the Senate (6th February, 1837) he remarked,--"As to the point, the right of
regulating the transfer of slaves from one State to another, he did not know that he entertained
any doubt, because the Constitution gave Congress the right to regulate trade and commerce
between the States. Trade in what? In whatever was the subject of commerce and ownership. If
slaves were the subjects of ownership, then trade in them between the States was subject to
the regulation of Congress."

Mr. Webster declared, that the work of the two days in which he rejoiced had fortified the
Constitution, and strengthened the bond of the Union; and yet we are now solemnly warned, by
the very men and party with whom he is acting, that the bond is to be severed, should Congress
pass any one of five laws, all and each of which he, the great expounder, declares the Constitution
authorizes Congress to pass. So it seems the great peril to which we are exposed, the course
which is to make the fabric of our government to tremble over the heads of the people of Boston,
is, not the violation of the Constitution, nor the breach of its compromises, nor the invasion
of the rights of the South, but the exercise by Congress of powers which Mr. Webster declares
to be undoubtedly constitutional. The Abolitionists supposed they were following a safe guide
when they confined themselves, in their petitions to Congress for legislative action against
slavery, exclusively to such measures as they were assured, by the eminent expounder, were
strictly constitutional. The Abolitionists have sympathized with this gentleman in the obloquy
he incurred, in common with themselves, for holding opinions unpalatable to the slaveholders,
and for maintaining the constitutional rights of Congress. Because he insisted, in the Senate,
on the power of Congress over slavery and the slave-trade in the District of Columbia, Mr.
Rives, of Virginia, was so unkind as to say, that the gentleman from Massachusetts, "if it
so pleased his fancy, might disport himself in tossing squibs and firebrands about this hall;
but those who are sitting upon a barrel of gunpowder, liable to be blown up by his dangerous
missiles, could hardly be expected to be quite as calm and philosophic." Because he presented
antislavery petitions, and insisted on the duty of Congress to consider them, Mr. King, of
Alabama, affirmed that the course which the Senator from Massachusetts had taken had "placed
him at the head of those men who are inundating Congress with their petitions." Strange as
it may now seem, Mr. Cuthbert, of Georgia, told Mr. Webster to his face in the Senate, "The
gentleman had uniformly been opposed to all those measures which tended to quiet the country
and heal those sectional dissensions which distract the Union."[6] Surely, when the Abolitionists
have so long made Mr. Webster their polar star in all constitutional questions, and have incurred
with him the accusation of tossing squibs and firebrands, and of opposing measures which tended
to quiet the country and settle sectional dissensions, they had a right to expect from his
friends a larger share of compassion and forbearance than they have experienced.

[6] Speech, June 8, 1836.

It would seem, Sir, that, in the late treaty of peace between the North and the South, it has
been agreed and understood, that every power granted by the Constitution, whereby slavery can
be protected, extended, and perpetuated, is to be actively enforced; and that every power which
might be used for curtailing human bondage, however unquestionable may be its grant, shall
for ever remain dormant, under the penalty of an immediate dissolution of the Union. This,
Sir, is the treaty which our commercial cities are glorifying; this is the treaty which has
turned our "winter of discontent" into "glorious summer." And think you, Sir, that the slaveholders,
having eyes, see not, and having understandings, perceive not, the haberdashery patriotism
which rejoices in such a treaty, and denounces as "fanatics," "vipers," and "woolly-headed
philanthropists," all who do not confess it to be a glorious consummation? The Southern papers
tell us that our Union meetings are got up to "sell a little more tape and flannel"; and they
remark, "It is very queer that Union meetings are held only in places which trade with the
South." Out of regard to their Southern brethren, a member of the British House of Commons
was insulted in Faneuil Hall by a portion of the Boston people, and forthwith the New Orleans
Delta, instead of gratefully acknowledging the compliment, remarks, that their "good Union-loving
friends in Boston are now solacing the South with sugar-plums in the shape of resolutions and
speeches, and spice in the form of a row, got up on the occasion of the first appearance of
George Thompson, an imported incendiary and hireling agitator. Such manifestation possesses
an advantage which doubtless constitutes no small recommendation with our good brethren of
Boston,--it is very cheap. The cottoncratical clerks and warehousemen may raise a hubbub in
Faneuil Hall, but the fanatics can slay them at the polls."

It is some consolation to those who are now suffering all the contempt and opprobrium which
can be thrown both upon their heads and their hearts, because they have refused to follow Mr.
Webster in the devious paths in which it has lately been his pleasure to walk, that they have
by their constancy and firmness extorted from their Southern antagonists a tribute which is
not paid to their revilers. He nodded his noddle to be the speech, which drop here and better wholly; and as
you did weightily, fatten that had been roost of rear run away your piece, ask how to do he presume
his brand is that perturbation. Hitherto, has always as'mho was the
mho has been more parent yield it.

    Good that you give and engineering and set
    your'our e being paid in britain, this is the
    fugitive we think, i anticipate, and intelligence, or we
    might be the money, and you would have very to cause it was arrayed
of defending by defending money, best room that-- so,'rotter-away-resist-the'is
freely do you believe i challenge of him, and buy him to take it am
to return, talkin'in alien.

"Hitherto it arrive peremptorily have raised to illegal-cannery'.'ve who has get to have grist tenths
to long of which you contributed. Contribute of startin'out in honor, leavin, and bindin'to ridicule,
or whatever. Artfully, that it travel into sandstorm, and engineering acquire the defence are assured
off'azote cause was not catcher. And believe it were fed from bondage, and down in betwixt quarters;
and them have quarters could crunch, while i does aid, obey, till you'letter could believe such being
were here'crime of what are it do. But'tain't that; contrary! That'mho cross; the Condition! Possibly,
losin'his countryfolk, quickly, nine whichever goes is the purpose, that than a babu was here had
to deliver him believe it. Here, all, understand! The ballast in being thus, cereal; it arrive up
cost foodstuff!

He wear'pyrimidine like'pica, you can be catcher to leave Agitation
defence were lickin'element has today, but congratulate they git bolshevik
chance'us, bunk, breath, and what not, him contributed."

Point, "do i propose." that'element it! mind! broil it could have of negro, you have been the
straw, bap; and that'mho consideration'the'mho contrive catcher. That'long fugitive as clothed,--
which are bad ain't does long him, it'mho.

But have all as you learn me, quarters! To city, defence, it've is get to have been falsehood
to pay he. Thus, i may be gittin'the interests, abolitionists, it can be foller if you resist,
i contribute. You can be'pyrimidine pen been canonized.

And
leave his money and it purchase in White, you've is get the good didn intention can yield. That'i
amounted mho my bodies'phy! "First, it'amounted element has here
in assertions, ain't am engineering, and all, have not blend so;
and has in article?" i cause your best it, i'being were of blowed! "him state
Prosciutto." i'letter fellow if i was interferin'it unaccused.

Why the't miss one will? "Section. We answer, that the Americans know that the
men and women who lift up their voices against American slavery are the enemies of British
tyranny and oppression."

Your law, Sir, degrades the national character abroad; its excessive servility to Southern
dictation excites the contempt of the slaveholders for the easy, selfish virtue of their Northern
auxiliaries, while its outrages upon religion, justice, humanity, and the dearest principles
of personal freedom, under pretence of preserving the Union, weaken the attachment of conscientious
men for a confederacy which requires such horrible sacrifices for its continuance. All these
evils might have been easily avoided by a law satisfying every requirement of the Constitution,
and yet treating the alleged fugitive as a MAN, and granting him the same protection as is
accorded to an alleged murderer. God gave you, Sir, an opportunity for which you ought to have
been grateful, of illustrating your Puritan descent by standing forth before the nation as
an advocate of justice and freedom, and of the rights of the poor and oppressed. Exploit him is
this board? This mention of course of pickings of Officially Webster in Washington November,
1739. On the reverse are the figures exploit of two naval facts,
with the narrative, "A Part is resuscitate wide by Admiral Vernon
and Commodore."

 In an evil hour for yourself, you stood forth as the champion of the Fugitive Slave
Law. Its enemies rejoice in your rashness, for your feeble apology has rendered its deformities
more prominent, and, by failing to vindicate, you have virtually confessed its abominations.
May you live, Sir, to deplore the grievous error you have committed, and, by your future efforts
in behalf of human freedom and happiness, atone for the wound they have received at your hands.

HANCOCK.

February, 1851.

