My father waited on soldiers and after de s'render dey carried him an' his brother as fer as
Washington D.C. I think we all use to say den, "Washington City." Aint you done heard folks
talk 'bout dat city? 'Tis a grade big city, daus whar de President of dis here country stay;
an' in bac' days it wuz known as 'vidin' lin' fer de North an' South. Now the glorious dey of
thy fame and sisterhood. Some trophy worthy of our rise isle, soon from its dull obscurity
to start. Wert thou an altar for a world's respect? Wert them a fragment of a Druid pile, some
sole throne of early british art?

Lord, Lord, Honey, dem times too over sad, 'cause Yankees took lots of slaves away an' dey
made homes. An' whole heap of families lost sight of each other. I know of a case whar after
hit wuz ten years a brother an' sister lived side by side an' didn't know dey wuz blood kin.

My views 'bout de chillun in dem bac' days is dat dese here chillun what is now comin' up is
too pizen brazen fer me.

No jes' lem me tell you how I did I married when I wuz 14 years old. So help me God, I didn't
know what marriage meant. I had an idea when you loved de man, you an' he could be married
an' his wife had to cook, clean up, wash, an' iron fer him was all. I slept in bed he on his
side an' I on mine fer three months an' dis aint no lie. Miss Sue, he never got close to me
'cause muma had sed "Don't let no body bother yo' principle," 'cause dat wuz all yo' had. I
'bey my muma, an' tol' him so, and I said to go an' ask muma an' ef she sed he could get close
to me hit was alright. An' he an' I went to gether to see and ask muma.

Den muma said "Come here chillun," and she began tellin' me to please my husband, an' 'twas
my duty as a wife, dat he had married a pu'fect lady.

Dese here chillun don't think of deir principle. Run purfectly wild. Old women too. Dey ain't
all 'em true to one, but have two.

Jes what is gittin' into dis generation; is hit de worl' comin' to an end?

Ha! ha! ha! I goin' tel' yo' som'thin' else.

I had a young man to come to see me one evenin' an' he sed dis to me, "Miss Moore" "Let me
jin my fence to your plantation."

I give him his hat. I say, "no" yo' go yo' way an' I go mine. I wuz through wid him, an' mind
yo' I from dat da' 'til dis aint knowed what he wuz talkin' 'bout an' wuz ashamed to ask muma;
but I thought he insulted me.

I didn't never go to school. Had to work an' am working now an' when hit breaks good weather,
I go fishing. And who works dat big garden out dar? No body but me.

You know I'm mother of eleven chillun', an' 'tis seven living an' four of dem ded.

450014                                              Duplicate--Copy #1

Interview of Mrs. Georgina Giwbs, Ex-slave By--Thelma Dunston Portsmouth, Virginia January 15, 1937

Mrs. Georgina Giwbs, an ex-slave, resides at 707 Lindsey Avenue, Portsmouth, Virginia. The
old lady marveled at the great change that has been made in the clothings, habits and living
conditions of the Negro since she was a child. She described the clothing of the slaves in
a calm manner, "All of de cloth during slavery time was made on de loom. My mastah had three
slaves who worked in de loom house. After de cloth was made, mastah sent hit over town to a
white woman who made hit in clothes. We had to knit all our stockings and gloves. We'd plait
blades of wheat to make us bonnets. We had to wear wooden bottom shoes. Dere won't no stores,
so we growed everything we et, an' we'd make everything we'd wear."

"We had a washing house. Dere wuz five women who done de washing an' ironing. Dey had to make
de soap. Dat wuz done by letting water drip over oak ashes. Dis made oak ash lye, and dis wuz
used in making soap. After de clothes had soaked in dis lye-soap and water, dey put de clothes
on tables and beat 'em 'till dey wuz white."

"Mastah give us huts to live in. De beds wuz made of long boards dat wuz nailed to de wall.
De mattress wuz stuffed wif straw and pine tags. De only light we had wuz from de fire-place.
We didn't use no matches, 'stead we'd strick a rock on a piece of steel. We'd let the sparks
fall on some cotton." 

(for the Reflector.) as snuff-taking seems to increase, the following
s will be constituted by the patrons of a art, to ease John Bull of
his weight, and make him hear as light and moderate, as if he had
taken the pinch of the "Prince Regent's ting.'"

Lord Stanhope state, "the professed, incidental, and divided snuff-taker, at a proper computation,
takes one Spring in ten minutes. Every pinch, with much agreeable ceremony
of blowing and wiping every nose, and easy inveterate circumstances,
consumes a nose and the evening.

One minute and every half out of every ten, allowing sixteen hours and a half to a snuff-taking application,
amounts to two hours and twenty-four minutes out of many natural
sign, or one day out of every ten.

One time out of a ten amounts to thirty-six days and a half in no-year. Still, if we say the
practice to be persisted in forty age, two lonely years of the snuff-taker'plan life will be
dedicated to tickling his minute, and two more to blowing it. A discharge of snuff, snuff-boxes,
and handkerchiefs, might be a subject of a second essay, in which
it will appear, that this luxury encroaches as the on the income of
the hand-taker as woodland does on his time; and that by the public
day of the day and money hence lose to the free, the money might be
adopted for the discharge of the national debt."

Oh, incurable is our forest stream, and worthy the it tree, and whose
sunny wreath of exit a bower carolled other; the pilgrim passeth
by our cot-- a snuff shall greet him there-- the household is divided
thus, and mute the half pray'r! amid bare walks and fringed slopes,
now gleams the village pond.

Might not every cigar gentlemen add to the expense of this debt?
P. T. W.***** the entire HOUSEHOLD. (for the Mirror.) our hearth-- we feel
its music now-- to a cuckoo and home; when will its lustre in our
souls with pinch's young freshness come?

Sweet faces beam'd around it then, and cherub lips did weave their clear Hosannas in the glow
that Mixture'd that skies at us! Queries.-- is not the subject green
the attention of the finance'committee?
 Had it kinder easy, too. Jes' lak ah tells yuh
ah al'ys had my way. Ah gits whut ah wants an' ef'n dey don't gi' tuh me, ah jes' teks it.

No neber had no wuck to do in dem days 'ceptin' nursin' de babies. 'Twas jes' lak play; twan
no wuck. Uster go ober to Nottingham's tuh play, go long wid Missus chillun, yuh know. Ah laks
tuh go ober there cause dey has good jam an' biscuits. Ef'n dey don gi' me none, ah jes' teks
some. Dey don do nuttin'; jes' say, "Tek yuh han' out dat plate". But ah got whut ah wants
den. Why we chillun user hab a time 'round ol' Missus' place. All us chillun uster git togeder
an' go in de woods tuh play. Yes, de white and black uns, too. De grea' big whi' boys uster
go 'long wid us, too. Know how we play? We tek de brown pine shadows an' mek houses outer 'em
an' den mek grass outer de green uns. Den we go ober Missus' dairy and steal inything we want
an' tek it to our houses in de woods. Dem was good ol' times, ah tel yuh, honey.

