It was easy enough to slip the picture of a pretty Dancer, who, in that long ago day, was all
the rage among the young men about town--into the silver frame, heart-shape, but what could
he do with her picture? It was much prior to the time of the cigarette craze and cigarette
pictures--so he could not send it to one of those at that time uncreated establishments, to
be copied and sent broadcast. He was something of an artist. He cleverly tinted the thing another
color--made her eyes blue instead of brown, and changed her golden sunlit wealth of hair into
a darker, if not richer shade. It was a full-length picture. Her trim figure was shown to advantage.
Her slender white hands were clasped above her bosom, and there was a look of heavenly resignation
on her serenely beautiful brow. He cruelly sent it to the editor of "Godey's Ladies' Magazine,"
and it was blazoned forth as a fashion plate, much enlarged and with many frills, in the following
February number of that then valuable and highly fashionable periodical. In return he received
their check for five dollars, drawn upon a National Bank of Philadelphia, and with a note stating
that while the customary price was two dollars and fifty cents they felt constrained to send
him a sum commensurate with the merits of the fancy picture which he had kindly forwarded them,
and that they would be pleased to hear from him again, which they never did--nor their check
either; for, while he was too poor to have kept it, yet he was too proud to cash it. I am told
that it hangs in a Boston museum, framed with a rare collection of postage stamps--one of his
many gifts to that edifying institution while yet alive.

Her final gift, the scarf-pin, with the big pearl and little diamonds, met with some mysterious
disposition. In telling me the story in the French cafe, he hesitated, spoke vaguely, and finally
refused to state just what he had done with the pin. He may have dropped the pearl, like Cleopatra,
in a goblet of ruby wine and drained the contents with the dissolved jewel for dredges and
for luck, and he may have given the pretty little diamonds to news boys or small negroes wandering
haphazard about the highways of his town. Anyhow, this much is sure, it was given away--that
much he made clear.

When he fell upon the letters with an idea of burning them--which I believe is more general
than the returning of them--he fortunately bethought himself of publishing them--just as they
were. And lo! then was born his "Perfected Letter Writer," which enabled him to leave a bequest
of many thousand dollars to Harvard College, where he was educated, and also a certain sum
of money to be discreetly distributed each year among the deserving and bashful young men of
Boston, between the ages of eighteen and twenty-three, to be used by them in making Christmas
gifts to worthy young women of their choice.

As might have been expected, that clause of his will was successfully contested, on account
of its vagueness, by his brother and sister, who morally, if not legally, cheated the "Bashful
Young Men of Boston" out of a unique and much deserved, much needed inheritance. This cure
for heart-break must be a severe but effectual one. When I met George Addison in Paris, then
an old man, he was as rosy as a ripe apple, and just as mellow. He was gracious, kindly, and
had learned well the difficult art of growing old with grace, and without noise. He dated his
success, his happiness too, from the moment he made the resolution to trample on his feelings
and rid himself in that novel method of every tangible vestige of that past, which he got rid
of by gift, not burial. Therefore, he had no ghostly visitors--no useless regrets.

