There are several rivers in Nevada, and they all have this mysterious fate.  They end in various
lakes or "sinks," and that is the last of them.  Carson Lake, Humboldt Lake, Walker Lake, Mono
Lake, are all great sheets of water without any visible outlet.  Water is always flowing into
them; none is ever seen to flow out of them, and yet they remain always level full, neither
receding nor overflowing.  What they do with their surplus is only known to the Creator.

On the western verge of the Desert we halted a moment at Ragtown.  It consisted of one log
house and is not set down on the map.

This reminds me of a circumstance.  Just after we left Julesburg, on the Platte, I was sitting
with the driver, and he said:

"I can tell you a most laughable thing indeed, if you would like to listen to it.  Horace Greeley
went over this road once.  When he was leaving Carson City he told the driver, Hank Monk, that
he had an engagement to lecture at Placerville and was very anxious to go through quick.  Hank
Monk cracked his whip and started off at an awful pace. The coach bounced up and down in such
a terrific way that it jolted the buttons all off of Horace's coat, and finally shot his head
clean through the roof of the stage, and then he yelled at Hank Monk and begged him to go easier--said
he warn't in as much of a hurry as he was awhile ago. But Hank Monk said, 'Keep your seat,
Horace, and I'll get you there on time'--and you bet you he did, too, what was left of him!"

A day or two after that we picked up a Denver man at the cross roads, and he told us a good
deal about the country and the Gregory Diggings. He seemed a very entertaining person and a
man well posted in the affairs of Colorado.

At Fort Bridger, some days after this, we took on board a cavalry sergeant, a very proper and
soldierly person indeed.  From no other man during the whole journey, did we gather such a
store of concise and well-arranged military information.  It was surprising to find in the
desolate wilds of our country a man so thoroughly acquainted with everything useful to know
in his line of life, and yet of such inferior rank and unpretentious bearing.  For as much
as three hours we listened to him with unabated interest.

When we were eight hours out from Salt Lake City a Mormon preacher got in with us at a way
station--a gentle, soft-spoken, kindly man, and one whom any stranger would warm to at first
sight.  I can never forget the pathos that was in his voice as he told, in simple language,
the story of his people's wanderings and unpitied sufferings.  No pulpit eloquence was ever
so moving and so beautiful as this outcast's picture of the first Mormon pilgrimage across
the plains, struggling sorrowfully onward to the land of its banishment and marking its desolate
way with graves and watering it with tears.  His words so wrought upon us that it was a relief
to us all when the conversation drifted into a more cheerful channel and the natural features
of the curious country we were in came under treatment.

Ten miles out of Ragtown we found a poor wanderer who had lain down to die.  He had walked
as long as he could, but his limbs had failed him at last.  Hunger and fatigue had conquered
him.  It would have been inhuman to leave him there.  We paid his fare to Carson and lifted
him into the coach.  It was some little time before he showed any very decided signs of life;
but by dint of chafing him and pouring brandy between his lips we finally brought him to a
languid consciousness.  Then we fed him a little, and by and by he seemed to comprehend the
situation and a grateful light softened his eye.  We made his mail-sack bed as comfortable
as possible, and constructed a pillow for him with our coats. He seemed very thankful.  Then
he looked up in our faces, and said in a feeble voice that had a tremble of honest emotion in it:

