The Baron's thoughts naturally reverted to the unprotected state of his daughter, and the big
tear came to the veteran's eye. 'If I fall, Macwheeble, you have all my papers and know all
my affairs; be just to Rose.'

The Bailie was a man of earthly mould, after all; a good deal of dirt and dross about him,
undoubtedly, but some kindly and just feelings he had, especially where the Baron or his young
mistress were concerned. He set up a lamentable howl. 'If that doleful day should come, while
Duncan Macwheeble had a boddle it should be Miss Rose's. He wald scroll for a plack the sheet
or she kenn'd what it was to want; if indeed a' the bonnie baronie o' Bradwardine and Tully-Veolan,
with the fortalice and manor-place thereof (he kept sobbing and whining at every pause), tofts,
crofts, mosses, muirs--outfield, infield--buildings--orchards-- dove-cots--with the right of
net and coble in the water and loch of Veolan--teinds, parsonage and vicarage--annexis, connexis--
rights of pasturage--feul, feal and divot--parts, pendicles, and pertinents whatsoever--(here
he had recourse to the end of his long cravat to wipe his eyes, which overflowed, in spite
of him, at the ideas which this technical jargon conjured up)--all as more fully described
in the proper evidents and titles thereof--and lying within the parish of Bradwardine and the
shire of Perth--if, as aforesaid, they must a' pass from my master's child to Inch- Grabbit,
wha's a Whig and a Hanoverian, and be managed by his doer, Jamie Howie, wha's no fit to be
a birlieman, let be a bailie--'

The beginning of this lamentation really had something affecting, but the conclusion rendered
laughter irresistible. 'Never mind, Bailie,' said Ensign Maccombich, 'for the gude auld times
of rugging and riving (pulling and tearing) are come back again, an' Sneckus Mac-Snackus (meaning,
probably, annexis, connexis), and a' the rest of your friends, maun gie place to the langest
claymore.'

'And that claymore shall be ours, Bailie,' said the Chieftain, who saw that Macwheeble looked
very blank at this intimation.

    'We'll give them the metal our mountain affords,
        Lillibulero, bullen a la,
    And in place of broad-pieces, we'll pay with broadswords,
        Lero, lero, etc.
    With duns and with debts we will soon clear our score,
        Lillibulero, etc.
    For the man that's thus paid will crave payment no more,
        Lero, lero, etc.

[Footnote: These lines, or something like them, occur in an old magazine of the period.]

But come, Bailie, be not cast down; drink your wine with a joyous heart; the Baron shall return
safe and victorious to Tully-Veolan, and unite Killancureit's lairdship with his own, since
the cowardly half-bred swine will not turn out for the Prince like a gentleman.'

'To be sure, they lie maist ewest,' said the Bailie, wiping his eyes, 'and should naturally
fa' under the same factory.'

'And I,' proceeded the Chieftain,'shall take care of myself, too; for you must know, I have
to complete a good work here, by bringing Mrs. Flockhart into the bosom of the Catholic church,
or at least half way, and that is to your Episcopal meeting-house. O Baron! if you heard her
fine counter-tenor admonishing Kate and Matty in the morning, you, who understand music, would
tremble at the idea of hearing her shriek in the psalmody of Haddo's Hole.'

'Lord forgie you, colonel, how ye rin on! But I hope your honours will tak tea before ye gang
to the palace, and I maun gang and mask it for you.'

So saying, Mrs. Flockhart left the gentlemen to their own conversation, which, as might be
supposed, turned chiefly upon the approaching events of the campaign.

CHAPTER XLIII

THE BALL

Ensign MacCombich having gone to the Highland camp upon duty, and Bailie Macwheeble having
retired to digest his dinner and Evan Dhu's intimation of martial law in some blind change-house,
Waverley, with the Baron and the Chieftain, proceeded to Holyrood House. The two last were
in full tide of spirits, and the Baron rallied in his way our hero upon the handsome figure
which his new dress displayed to advantage.

Although, indeed, ye wear the trews, a garment whilk I approve maist of the twa, as mair ancient
and seemly.' 'Or rather,' said Fergus, 'hear my song:--

    She wadna hae a Lowland laird,
      Nor be an English lady;
    But she's away with Duncan Grame,
      And he's row'd her in his plaidy.'

By this time they reached the palace of Holyrood, and were announced respectively as they entered
the apartments.

It is but too well known how many gentlemen of rank, education, and fortune took a concern
in the ill-fated and desperate undertaking of 1745. The ladies, also, of Scotland very generally
espoused the cause of the gallant and handsome young Prince, who threw himself upon the mercy
of his countrymen rather like a hero of romance than a calculating politician. It is not, therefore,
to be wondered that Edward, who had spent the greater part of his life in the solemn seclusion
of Waverley-Honour, should have been dazzled at the liveliness and elegance of the scene now
exhibited in the long deserted halls of the Scottish palace. The accompaniments, indeed, fell
short of splendour, being such as the confusion and hurry of the time admitted; still, however,
the general effect was striking, and, the rank of the company considered, might well be called
brilliant.

It was not long before the lover's eye discovered the object of his attachment. Flora Mac-Ivor
was in the act of returning to her seat, near the top of the room, with Rose Bradwardine by
her side. Among much elegance and beauty, they had attracted a great degree of the public attention,
being certainly two of the handsomest women present. The Prince took much notice of both, particularly
of Flora, with whom he danced, a preference which she probably owed to her foreign education
and command of the French and Italian languages.

When the bustle attending the conclusion of the dance permitted, Edward almost intuitively
followed Fergus to the place where Miss Mac-Ivor was seated. The sensation of hope with which
he had nursed his affection in absence of the beloved object seemed to vanish in her presence,
and, like one striving to recover the particulars of a forgotten dream, he would have given
the world at that moment to have recollected the grounds on which he had founded expectations
which now seemed so delusive. He accompanied Fergus with downcast eyes, tingling ears, and
the feelings of the criminal who, while the melancholy cart moves slowly through the crowds
that have assembled to behold his execution, receives no clear sensation either from the noise
which fills his ears or the tumult on which he casts his wandering look. Flora seemed a little--a
very little--affected and discomposed at his approach. 'I bring you an adopted son of Ivor,'
said Fergus.

'And I receive him as a second brother,' replied Flora.

There was a slight emphasis on the word, which would have escaped every ear but one that was
feverish with apprehension. It was, however, distinctly marked, and, combined with her whole
tone and manner, plainly intimated, 'I will never think of Mr. Waverley as a more intimate
connexion.' Edward stopped, bowed, and looked at Fergus, who bit his lip, a movement of anger
which proved that he also had put a sinister interpretation on the reception which his sister
had given his friend. 'This, then, is an end of my day- dream!' Such was Waverley's first thought,
and it was so exquisitely painful as to banish from his cheek every drop of blood.

'Good God!' said Rose Bradwardine, 'he is not yet recovered!'

These words, which she uttered with great emotion, were overheard by the Chevalier himself,
who stepped hastily forward, and, taking Waverley by the hand, inquired kindly after his health,
and added that he wished to speak with him. By a strong and sudden effort; which the circumstances
rendered indispensable, Waverley recovered himself so far as to follow the Chevalier in silence
to a recess in the apartment.

Here the Prince detained him some time, asking various questions about the great Tory and Catholic
families of England, their connexions, their influence, and the state of their affections towards
the house of Stuart. To these queries Edward could not at any time have given more than general
answers, and it may be supposed that, in the present state of his feelings, his responses were
indistinct even to confusion. The Chevalier smiled once or twice at the incongruity of his
replies, but continued the same style of conversation, although he found himself obliged to
occupy the principal share of it, until he perceived that Waverley had recovered his presence
of mind. It is probable that this long audience was partly meant to further the idea which
the Prince desired should be entertained among his followers, that Waverley was a character
of political influence. But it appeared, from his concluding expressions, that he had a different
and good-natured motive, personal to our hero, for prolonging the conference. 'I cannot resist
the temptation,' he said, 'of boasting of my own discretion as a lady's confidant. You see,
Mr. Waverley, that I know all, and I assure you I am deeply interested in the affair. But,
my good young friend, you must put a more severe restraint upon your feelings. There are many
here whose eyes can see as clearly as mine, but the prudence of whose tongues may not be equally
trusted,'

So saying, he turned easily away and joined a circle of officers at a few paces' distance,
leaving Waverley to meditate upon his parting expression, which, though not intelligible to
him in its whole purport, was sufficiently so in the caution which the last word recommended.
Making, therefore, an effort to show himself worthy of the interest which his new master had
expressed, by instant obedience to his recommendation, he walked up to the spot where Flora
and Miss Bradwardine were still seated, and having made his compliments to the latter, he succeeded,
even beyond his own expectation, in entering into conversation upon general topics.

If, my dear reader, thou hast ever happened to take post-horses at----or at----(one at least
of which blanks, or more probably both, you will be able to fill up from an inn near your own
residence), you must have observed, and doubtless with sympathetic pain, the reluctant agony
with which the poor jades at first apply their galled necks to the collars of the harness.
But when the irresistible arguments of the post-boy have prevailed upon them to proceed a mile
or two, they will become callous to the first sensation; and being warm in the harness, as
the said post-boy may term it, proceed as if their withers were altogether unwrung. This simile
so much corresponds with the state of Waverley's feelings in the course of this memorable evening,
that I prefer it (especially as being, I trust, wholly original) to any more splendid illustration
with which Byshe's 'Art of Poetry' might supply me.

Exertion, like virtue, is its own reward; and our hero had, moreover, other stimulating motives
for persevering in a display of affected composure and indifference to Flora's obvious unkindness.
Pride, which supplies its caustic as an useful, though severe, remedy for the wounds of affection,
came rapidly to his aid. Distinguished by the favour of a prince; destined, he had room to
hope, to play a conspicuous part in the revolution which awaited a mighty kingdom; excelling,
probably, in mental acquirements, and equalling at least in personal accomplishments, most
of the noble and distinguished persons with whom he was now ranked; young, wealthy, and high-born,--could
he, or ought he, to droop beneath the frown of a capricious beauty?

    O nymph, unrelenting and cold as thou art,
    My bosom is proud as thine own.

With the feeling expressed in these beautiful lines (which, however, were not then written),
[Footnote: They occur in Miss Seward's fine verses, beginning--'To thy rocks, stormy Lannow,
adieu.'] Waverley determined upon convincing Flora that he was not to be depressed by a rejection
in which his vanity whispered that perhaps she did her own prospects as much injustice as his.
And, to aid this change of feeling, there lurked the secret and unacknowledged hope that she
might learn to prize his affection more highly, when she did not conceive it to be altogether
within her own choice to attract or repulse it. There was a mystic tone of encouragement, also,
in the Chevalier's words, though he feared they only referred to the wishes of Fergus in favour
of an union between him and his sister. But the whole circumstances of time, place, and incident
combined at once to awaken his imagination and to call upon him for a manly and decisive tone
of conduct, leaving to fate to dispose of the issue. Should he appear to be the only one sad
and disheartened on the eve of battle, how greedily would the tale be commented upon by the
slander which had been already but too busy with his fame! Never, never, he internally resolved,
shall my unprovoked enemies possess such an advantage over my reputation.

Under the influence of these mixed sensations, and cheered at times by a smile of intelligence
and approbation from the Prince as he passed the group, Waverley exerted his powers of fancy,
animation, and eloquence, and attracted the general admiration of the company. The conversation
gradually assumed the tone best qualified for the display of his talents and acquisitions.
The gaiety of the evening was exalted in character, rather than checked, by the approaching
dangers of the morrow. All nerves were strung for the future, and prepared to enjoy the present.
This mood of mind is highly favourable for the exercise of the powers of imagination, for poetry,
and for that eloquence which is allied to poetry. Waverley, as we have elsewhere observed,
possessed at times a wonderful flow of rhetoric; and on the present occasion, he touched more
than once the higher notes of feeling, and then again ran off in a wild voluntary of fanciful
mirth. He was supported and excited by kindred spirits, who felt the same impulse of mood and
time; and even those of more cold and calculating habits were hurried along by the torrent.
Many ladies declined the dance, which still went forward, and under various pretences joined
the party to which the 'handsome young Englishman' seemed to have attached himself. He was
presented to several of the first rank, and his manners, which for the present were altogether
free from the bashful restraint by which, in a moment of less excitation, they were usually
clouded, gave universal delight.

Flora Mac-Ivor appeared to be the only female present who regarded him with a degree of coldness
and reserve; yet even she could not suppress a sort of wonder at talents which, in the course
of their acquaintance, she had never seen displayed with equal brilliancy and impressive effect.
I do not know whether she might not feel a momentary regret at having taken so decisive a resolution
upon the addresses of a lover who seemed fitted so well to fill a high place in the highest
stations of society. Certainly she had hitherto accounted among the incurable deficiencies
of Edward's disposition the mauvaise honte which, as she had been educated in the first foreign
circles, and was little acquainted with the shyness of English manners, was in her opinion
too nearly related to timidity and imbecility of disposition. But if a passing wish occurred
that Waverley could have rendered himself uniformly thus amiable and attractive, its influence
was momentary; for circumstances had arisen since they met which rendered in her eyes the resolution
she had formed respecting him final and irrevocable.

With opposite feelings Rose Bradwardine bent her whole soul to listen. She felt a secret triumph
at the public tribute paid to one whose merit she had learned to prize too early and too fondly.
Without a thought of jealousy, without a feeling of fear, pain, or doubt, and undisturbed by
a single selfish consideration, she resigned herself to the pleasure of observing the general
murmur of applause. When Waverley spoke, her ear was exclusively filled with his voice, when
others answered, her eye took its turn of observation, and seemed to watch his reply. Perhaps
the delight which she experienced in the course of that evening, though transient, and followed
by much sorrow, was in its nature the most pure and disinterested which the human mind is capable
of enjoying.

'Baron,' said the Chevalier, 'I would not trust my mistress in the company of your young friend.
He is really, though perhaps somewhat romantic, one of the most fascinating young men whom
I have ever seen.'

'And by my honour, sir,' replied the Baron,'the lad can sometimes be as dowff as a sexagenary
like myself. If your Royal Highness had seen him dreaming and dozing about the banks of Tully-Veolan
like an hypochondriac person, or, as Burton's "Anatomia" hath it, a phrenesiac or lethargic
patient, you would wonder where he hath sae suddenly acquired all this fine sprack festivity
and jocularity.'

'Truly,' said Fergus Mac-Ivor, 'I think it can only be the inspiration of the tartans; for,
though Waverley be always a young fellow of sense and honour, I have hitherto often found him
a very absent and inattentive companion.'

'We are the more obliged to him,' said the Prince, 'for having reserved for this evening qualities
which even such intimate friends had not discovered. But come, gentlemen, the night advances,
and the business of tomorrow must be early thought upon. Each take charge of his fair partner,
and honour a small refreshment with your company.'

He led the way to another suite of apartments, and assumed the seat and canopy at the head
of a long range of tables with an air of dignity, mingled with courtesy, which well became
his high birth and lofty pretensions. An hour had hardly flown away when the musicians played
the signal for parting so well known in Scotland. [Footnote: Which is, or was wont to be, the
old air of 'Good-night and joy be wi' you a'.]

'Good-night, then,' said the Chevalier, rising; 'goodnight, and joy be with you! Good-night,
fair ladies, who have so highly honoured a proscribed and banished Prince! Good-night, my brave
friends; may the happiness we have this evening experienced be an omen of our return to these
our paternal halls, speedily and in triumph, and of many and many future meetings of mirth
and pleasure in the palace of Holyrood!'

When the Baron of Bradwardine afterwards mentioned this adieu of the Chevalier, he never failed
to repeat, in a melancholy tone,

    'Audiit, et voti Phoebus succedere partem
    Mente dedit; partem volucres dispersit in auras;

which,' as he added, 'is weel rendered into English metre by my friend Bangour:--

    Ae half the prayer wi' Phoebus grace did find,
    The t'other half he whistled down the wind.'

CHAPTER XLIV

THE MARCH

The conflicting passions and exhausted feelings of Waverley had resigned him to late but sound
repose. He was dreaming of Glennaquoich, and had transferred to the halls of lan nan Chaistel
the festal train which so lately graced those of Holyrood. The pibroch too was distinctly heard;
and this at least was no delusion, for the 'proud step of the chief piper' of the 'chlain MacIvor'
was perambulating the court before the door of his Chieftain's quarters, and as Mrs. Flockhart,
apparently no friend to his minstrelsy, was pleased to observe, 'garring the very stane-and-lime
wa's dingle wi' his screeching.' Of course it soon became too powerful for Waverley's dream,
with which it had at first rather harmonised.

The sound of Callum's brogues in his apartment (for Mac-Ivor had again assigned Waverley to
his care) was the next note of parting. 'Winna yer honour bang up? Vich lan Vohr and ta Prince
are awa to the lang green glen ahint the clachan, tat they ca' the King's Park, [Footnote:
The main body of the Highland army encamped, or rather bivouacked, in that part of the King's
Park which lies towards the village of Duddingston.] and mony ane's on his ain shanks the day
that will be carried on ither folk's ere night.'

Waverley sprung up, and, with Callum's assistance and instructions, adjusted his tartans in
proper costume. Callum told him also,' tat his leather dorlach wi' the lock on her was come
frae Doune, and she was awa again in the wain wi' Vich Ian Vohr's walise.'

By this periphrasis Waverley readily apprehended his portmanteau was intended. He thought upon
the mysterious packet of the maid of the cavern, which seemed always to escape him when within
his very grasp. But this was no time for indulgence of curiosity; and having declined Mrs.
Flockhart's compliment of a MORNING, i.e. a matutinal dram, being probably the only man in
the Chevalier's army by whom such a courtesy would have been rejected, he made his adieus and
departed with Callum.

'Callum,' said he, as they proceeded down a dirty close to gain the southern skirts of the
Canongate, 'what shall I do for a horse?'

'Ta deil ane ye maun think o',' said Callum. 'Vich Ian Vohr's marching on foot at the head
o' his kin (not to say ta Prince, wha does the like), wi' his target on his shoulder; and ye
maun e'en be neighbour-like.'

'And so I will, Callum, give me my target; so, there we are fixed. How does it look?'

'Like the bra' Highlander tat's painted on the board afore the mickle change-house they ca'
Luckie Middlemass's,' answered Callum; meaning, I must observe, a high compliment, for in his
opinion Luckie Middlemass's sign was an exquisite specimen of art. Waverley, however, not feeling
the full force of this polite simile, asked him no further questions.

Upon extricating themselves from the mean and dirty suburbs of the metropolis, and emerging
into the open air, Waverley felt a renewal of both health and spirits, and turned his recollection
with firmness upon the events of the preceding evening, and with hope and resolution towards
those of the approaching day.

When he had surmounted a small craggy eminence called St. Leonard's Hill, the King's Park,
or the hollow between the mountain of Arthur's Seat and the rising grounds on which the southern
part of Edinburgh is now built, lay beneath him, and displayed a singular and animating prospect.
It was occupied by the army of the Highlanders, now in the act of preparing for their march.
Waverley had already seen something of the kind at the hunting-match which he attended with
Fergus MacIvor; but this was on a scale of much greater magnitude, and incomparably deeper
interest. The rocks, which formed the background of the scene, and the very sky itself, rang
with the clang of the bagpipers, summoning forth, each with his appropriate pibroch, his chieftain
and clan. The mountaineers, rousing themselves from their couch under the canopy of heaven
with the hum and bustle of a confused and irregular multitude, like bees alarmed and arming
in their hives, seemed to possess all the pliability of movement fitted to execute military
manoeuvres. Their motions appeared spontaneous and confused, but the result was order and regularity;
so that a general must have praised the conclusion, though a martinet might have ridiculed
the method by which it was attained.

The sort of complicated medley created by the hasty arrangements of the various clans under
their respective banners, for the purpose of getting into the order of march, was in itself
a gay and lively spectacle. They had no tents to striket having generally, and by choice, slept
upon the open field, although the autumn was now waning and the nights began to be frosty.
For a little space, while they were getting into order, there was exhibited a changing, fluctuating,
and confused appearance of waving tartans and floating plumes, and of banners displaying the
proud gathering word of Clanronald, Ganion Coheriga (Gainsay who dares), Loch-Sloy, the watchword
of the MacFarlanes; Forth, fortune, and fill the fetters, the motto of the Marquis of Tullibardine;
Bydand, that of Lord Lewis Gordon, and the appropriate signal words and emblems of many other
chieftains and clans.

At length the mixed and wavering multitude arranged themselves into a narrow and dusky column
of great length, stretching through the whole extent of the valley. In the front of the column
the standard of the Chevalier was displayed, bearing a red cross upon a white ground, with
the motto Tandem Triumphans. The few cavalry, being chiefly Lowland gentry, with their domestic
servants and retainers, formed the advanced guard of the army; and their standards, of which
they had rather too many in respect of their numbers, were seen waving upon the extreme verge
of the horizon. Many horsemen of this body, among whom Waverley accidentally remarked Balmawhapple
and his lieutenant, Jinker (which last, however, had been reduced, with several others, by
the advice of the Baron of Bradwardine, to the situation of what he called reformed officers,
or reformadoes), added to the liveliness, though by no means to the regularity, of the scene,
by galloping their horses as fast forward as the press would permit, to join their proper station
in the van. The fascinations of the Circes of the High Street, and the potations of strength
with which they had been drenched over night, had probably detained these heroes within the
walls of Edinburgh somewhat later than was consistent with their morning duty. Of such loiterers,
the prudent took the longer and circuitous, but more open, route to attain their place in the
march, by keeping at some distance from the infantry, and making their way through the inclosures
to the right, at the expense of leaping over or pulling down the drystone fences. The irregular
appearance and vanishing of these small parties of horsemen, as well as the confusion occasioned
by those who endeavoured, though generally without effect, to press to the front through the
crowd of Highlanders, maugre their curses, oaths, and opposition, added to the picturesque
wildness what it took from the military regularity of the scene.

While Waverley gazed upon this remarkable spectacle, rendered yet more impressive by the occasional
discharge of cannon-shot from the Castle at the Highland guards as they were withdrawn from
its vicinity to join their main body, Callum, with his usual freedom of interference, reminded
him that Vich lan Vohr's folk were nearly at the head of the column of march which was still
distant, and that 'they would gang very fast after the cannon fired.' Thus admonished, Waverley
walked briskly forward, yet often casting a glance upon the darksome clouds of warriors who
were collected before and beneath him. A nearer view, indeed, rather diminished the effect
impressed on the mind by the more distant appearance of the army. The leading men of each clan
were well armed with broad- sword, target, and fusee, to which all added the dirk, and most
the steel pistol. But these consisted of gentlemen, that is, relations of the chief, however
distant, and who had an immediate title to his countenance and protection. Finer and hardier
men could not have been selected out of any army in Christendom; while the free and independent
habits which each possessed, and which each was yet so well taught to subject to the command
of his chief, and the peculiar mode of discipline adopted in Highland warfare, rendered them
equally formidable by their individual courage and high spirit, and from their rational conviction
of the necessity of acting in unison, and of giving their national mode of attack the fullest
opportunity of success.

But, in a lower rank to these, there were found individuals of an inferior description, the
common peasantry of the Highland country, who, although they did not allow themselves to be
so called, and claimed often, with apparent truth, to be of more ancient descent than the masters
whom they served, bore, nevertheless, the livery of extreme penury, being indifferently accoutred,
and worse armed, half naked, stinted in growth, and miserable in aspect. Each important clan
had some of those Helots attached to them: thus, the MacCouls, though tracing their descent
from Comhal, the father of Finn or Fingal, were a sort of Gibeonites, or hereditary servants
to the Stewarts of Appin; the Macbeths, descended from the unhappy monarch of that name, were
subjects to the Morays and clan Donnochy, or Robertsons of Athole; and many other examples
might be given, were it not for the risk of hurting any pride of clanship which may yet be
left, and thereby drawing a Highland tempest into the shop of my publisher. Now these same
Helots, though forced into the field by the arbitrary authority of the chieftains under whom
they hewed wood and drew water, were in general very sparingly fed, ill dressed, and worse
armed. The latter circumstance was indeed owing chiefly to the general disarming act, which
had been carried into effect ostensibly through the whole Highlands, although most of the chieftains
contrived to elude its influence by retaining the weapons of their own immediate clansmen,
and delivering up those of less value, which they collected from these inferior satellites.
It followed, as a matter of course, that, as we have already hinted, many of these poor fellows
were brought to the field in a very wretched condition.

From this it happened that, in bodies, the van of which were admirably well armed in their
own fashion, the rear resembled actual banditti. Here was a pole-axe, there a sword without
a scabbard; here a gun without a lock, there a scythe set straight upon a pole; and some had
only their dirks, and bludgeons or stakes pulled out of hedges. The grim, uncombed, and wild
appearance of these men, most of whom gazed with all the admiration of ignorance upon the most
ordinary productions of domestic art, created surprise in the Lowlands, but it also created
terror. So little was the condition of the Highlands known at that late period that the character
and appearance of their population, while thus sallying forth as military adventurers, conveyed
to the South-Country Lowlanders as much surprise as if an invasion of African Negroes or Esquimaux
Indians had issued forth from the northern mountains of their own native country. It cannot
therefore be wondered if Waverley, who had hitherto judged of the Highlanders generally from
the samples which the policy of Fergus had from time to time exhibited, should have felt damped
and astonished at the daring attempt of a body not then exceeding four thousand men, and of
whom not above half the number, at the utmost, were armed, to change the fate and alter the
dynasty of the British kingdoms.

As he moved along the column, which still remained stationary, an iron gun, the only piece
of artillery possessed by the army which meditated so important a revolution, was fired as
the signal of march. The Chevalier had expressed a wish to leave this useless piece of ordnance
behind him; but, to his surprise, the Highland chiefs interposed to solicit that it might accompany
their march, pleading the prejudices of their followers, who, little accustomed to artillery,
attached a degree of absurd importance to this field-piece, and expected it would contribute
essentially to a victory which they could only owe to their own muskets and broadswords. Two
or three French artillerymen were therefore appointed to the management of this military engine,
which was drawn along by a string of Highland ponies, and was, after all, only used for the
purpose of firing signals. [Footnote: See Note 6.]

No sooner was its voice heard upon the present occasion than the whole line was in motion.
A wild cry of joy from the advancing batallions rent the air, and was then lost in the shrill
clangour of the bagpipes, as the sound of these, in their turn, was partially drowned by the
heavy tread of so many men put at once into motion. The banners glittered and shook as they
moved forward, and the horse hastened to occupy their station as the advanced guard, and to
push on reconnoitring parties to ascertain and report the motions of the enemy. They vanished
from Waverley's eye as they wheeled round the base of Arthur's Seat, under the remarkable ridge
of basaltic rocks which fronts the little lake of Duddingston.

The infantry followed in the same direction, regulating their pace by another body which occupied
a road more to the southward. It cost Edward some exertion of activity to attain the place
which Fergus's followers occupied in the line of march.

CHAPTER XLV

AN INCIDENT GIVES RISE TO UNAVAILING REFLECTIONS

When Waverley reached that part of the column which was filled by the clan of Mac-Ivor, they
halted, formed, and received him with a triumphant flourish upon the bagpipes and a loud shout
of the men, most of whom knew him personally, and were delighted to see him in the dress of
their country and of their sept. 'You shout,' said a Highlander of a neighbouring clan to Evan
Dhu, 'as if the Chieftain were just come to your head.'

'Mar e Bran is e a brathair, If it be not Bran, it is Bran's brother,' was the proverbial reply
of Maccombich. [Footnote: Bran, the well-known dog of Fingal. is often the theme of Highland
proverb as well as song.]

'O, then, it is the handsome Sassenach duinhe-wassel that is to be married to Lady Flora?'

'That may be, or it may not be; and it is neither your matter nor mine, Gregor.'

Fergus advanced to embrace the volunteer, and afford him a warm and hearty welcome; but he
thought it necessary to apologize for the diminished numbers of his battalion (which did not
exceed three hundred men) by observing he had sent a good many out upon parties.

The real fact, however, was, that the defection of Donald Bean Lean had deprived him of at
least thirty hardy fellows, whose services he had fully reckoned upon, and that many of his
occasional adherents had been recalled by their several chiefs to the standards to which they
most properly owed their allegiance. The rival chief of the great northern branch, also, of
his own clan had mustered his people, although he had not yet declared either for the government
or for the Chevalier, and by his intrigues had in some degree diminished the force with which
Fergus took the field. To make amends for these disappointments, it was universally admitted
that the followers of Vich Ian Vohr, in point of appearance, equipment, arms, and dexterity
in using them, equalled the most choice troops which followed the standard of Charles Edward.
Old Ballenkeiroch acted as his major; and, with the other officers who had known Waverley when
at Glennaquoich, gave our hero a cordial reception, as the sharer of their future dangers and
expected honours.

The route pursued by the Highland army, after leaving the village of Duddingston, was for some
time the common post-road betwixt Edinburgh and Haddington, until they crossed the Esk at Musselburgh,
when, instead of keeping the low grounds towards the sea, they turned more inland, and occupied
the brow of the eminence called Carberry Hill, a place already distinguished in Scottish history
as the spot where the lovely Mary surrendered herself to her insurgent subjects. This direction
was chosen because the Chevalier had received notice that the army of the government, arriving
by sea from Aberdeen, had landed at Dunbar, and quartered the night before to the west of Haddington,
with the intention of falling down towards the sea-side, and approaching Edinburgh by the lower
coast-road. By keeping the height, which overhung that road in many places, it was hoped the
Highlanders might find an opportunity of attacking them to advantage. The army therefore halted
upon the ridge of Carberry Hill, both to refresh the soldiers and as a central situation from
which their march could be directed to any point that the motions of the enemy might render
most advisable. While they remained in this position a messenger arrived in haste to desire
Mac-Ivor to come to the Prince, adding that their advanced post had had a skirmish with some
of the enemy's cavalry, and that the Baron of Bradwardine had sent in a few prisoners.

Waverley walked forward out of the line to satisfy his curiosity, and soon observed five or
six of the troopers who, covered with dust, had galloped in to announce that the enemy were
in full march westward along the coast. Passing still a little farther on, he was struck with
a groan which issued from a hovel. He approached the spot, and heard a voice, in the provincial
English of his native county, which endeavoured, though frequently interrupted by pain, to
repeat the Lord's Prayer. The voice of distress always found a ready answer in our hero's bosom.
He entered the hovel, which seemed to be intended for what is called, in the pastoral counties
of Scotland, a smearing-house; and in its obscurity Edward could only at first discern a sort
of red bundle; for those who had stripped the wounded man of his arms and part of his clothes
had left him the dragoon-cloak in which he was enveloped.

'For the love of God,' said the wounded man, as he heard Waverley's step, 'give me a single
drop of water!'

'You shall have it,' answered Waverley, at the same time raising him in his arms, bearing him
to the door of the hut, and giving him some drink from his flask.

'I should know that voice,' said the man; but looking on Waverley's dress with a bewildered
look--'no, this is not the young squire!'

This was the common phrase by which Edward was distinguished on the estate of Waverley-Honour,
and the sound now thrilled to his heart with the thousand recollections which the well-known
accents of his native country had already contributed to awaken. 'Houghton!' he said, gazing
on the ghastly features which death was fast disfiguring, 'can this be you?'

'I never thought to hear an English voice again,' said the wounded man;'they left me to live
or die here as I could, when they found I would say nothing about the strength of the regiment.
But, O squire! how could you stay from us so long, and let us be tempted by that fiend of the
pit, Rufinn? we should have followed you through flood and fire, to be sure.'

'Rufin! I assure you, Houghton, you have been vilely imposed upon.'

'I often thought so,' said Houghton,'though they showed us your very seal; and so Tims was
shot and I was reduced to the ranks.'

'Do not exhaust your strength in speaking,' said Edward; 'I will get you a surgeon presently.'

He saw Mac-Ivor approaching, who was now returning from headquarters, where he had attended
a council of war, and hastened to meet him. 'Brave news!'shouted the Chief; 'we shall be at
it in less than two hours. The Prince has put himself at the head of the advance, and, as he
drew his sword, called out, "My friends, I have thrown away the scabbard." Come, Waverley,
we move instantly.'

'A moment--a moment; this poor prisoner is dying; where shall I find a surgeon?'

'Why, where should you? We have none, you know, but two or three French fellows, who, I believe,
are little better than garqons apothecaires.'

'But the man will bleed to death.'

'Poor fellow!' said Fergus, in a momentary fit of compassion; then instantly added, 'But it
will be a thousand men's fate before night; so come along.'

'I cannot; I tell you he is a son of a tenant of my uncle's.'

'O, if he's a follower of yours he must be looked to; I'll send Callum to you; but diaoul!
ceade millia mottigheart,' continued the impatient Chieftain, 'what made an old soldier like
Bradwardine send dying men here to cumber us?'

Callum came with his usual alertness; and, indeed, Waverley rather gained than lost in the
opinion of the Highlanders by his anxiety about the wounded man. They would not have understood
the general philanthropy which rendered it almost impossible for Waverley to have passed any
person in such distress; but, as apprehending that the sufferer was one of his following they
unanimously allowed that Waverley's conduct was thatof akind and considerate chieftain, who
merited the attachment of his people. In about a quarter of an hour poor Humphrey breathed
his last, praying his young master, when he returned to Waverley-Honour, to be kind to old
Job Houghton and his dame, and conjuring him not to fight with these wild petticoat-men against
old England.

When his last breath was drawn, Waverley, who had beheld with sincere sorrow, and no slight
tinge of remorse, the final agonies of mortality, now witnessed for the first time, commanded
Callum to remove the body into the hut. This the young Highlander performed, not without examining
the pockets of the defunct, which, however, he remarked had been pretty well spunged. He took
the cloak, however, and proceeding with the provident caution of a spaniel hiding a bone, concealed
it among some furze and carefully marked the spot, observing that, if he chanced to return
that way, it would be an excellent rokelay for his auld mother Elspat.

It was by a considerable exertion that they regained their place in the marching column, which
was now moving rapidly forward to occupy the high grounds above the village of Tranent, between
which and the sea lay the purposed march of the opposite army.

This melancholy interview with his late sergeant forced many unavailing and painful reflections
upon Waverley's mind. It was clear from the confession of the man that Colonel Gardiner's proceedings
had been strictly warranted, and even rendered indispensable, by the steps taken in Edward's
name to induce the soldiers of his troop to mutiny. The circumstance of the seal he now, for
the first time, recollected, and that he had lost it in the cavern of the robber, Bean Lean.
That the artful villain had secured it, and used it as the means of carrying on an intrigue
in the regiment for his own purposes, was sufficiently evident; and Edward had now little doubt
that in the packet placed in his portmanteau by his daughter he should find farther light upon
his proceedings. In the meanwhile the repeated expostulation of Houghton--'Ah, squire, why
did you leave us?' rung like a knell in his ears.

'Yes,' he said, 'I have indeed acted towards you with thoughtless cruelty. I brought you from
your paternal fields, and the protection of a generous and kind landlord, and when I had subjected
you to all the rigour of military discipline, I shunned to bear my own share of the burden,
and wandered from the duties I had undertaken, leaving alike those whom it was my business
to protect, and my own reputation, to suffer under the artifices of villainy. O, indolence
and indecision of mind, if not in yourselves vices--to how much exquisite misery and mischief
do you frequently prepare the way!'

CHAPTER XLVI

THE EVE OF BATTLE

Although the Highlanders marched on very fast, the sun was declining when they arrived upon
the brow of those high grounds which command an open and extensive plain stretching northward
to the sea, on which are situated, but at a considerable distance from each other, the small
villages of Seaton and Cockenzie, and the larger one of Preston. One of the low coastroads
to Edinburgh passed through this plain, issuing upon it from the enclosures of Seaton House,
and at the town or village of Preston again entering the denies of an enclosed country. By
this way the English general had chosen to approach the metropolis, both as most commodious
for his cavalry, and being probably of opinion that by doing so he would meet in front with
the Highlanders advancing from Edinburgh in the opposite direction. In this he was mistaken;
for the sound judgment of the Chevalier, or of those to whose advice he listened, left the
direct passage free, but occupied the strong ground by which it was overlooked and commanded.

When the Highlanders reached the heights above the plain described, they were immediately formed
in array of battle along the brow of the hill. Almost at the same instant the van of the English
appeared issuing from among the trees and enclosures of Seaton, with the purpose of occupying
the level plain between the high ground and the sea; the space which divided the armies being
only about half a mile in breadth. Waverley could plainly see the squadrons of dragoons issue,
one after another, from the defiles, with their videttes in front, and form upon the plain,
with their front opposed to that of the Prince's army. They were followed by a train of field-pieces,
which, when they reached the flank of the dragoons, were also brought into line and pointed
against the heights. The march was continued by three or four regiments of infantry marching
in open column, their fixed bayonets showing like successive hedges of steel, and their arms
glancing like lightning, as, at a signal given, they also at once wheeled up, and were placed
in direct opposition to the Highlanders. A second train of artillery, with another regiment
of horse, closed the long march, and formed on the left flank of the infantry, the whole line
facing southward.

While the English army went through these evolutions, the Highlanders showed equal promptitude
and zeal for battle. As fast as the clans came upon the ridge which fronted their enemy, they
were formed into line, so that both armies got into complete order of battle at the same moment.
When this was accomplished, the Highlanders set up a tremendous yell, which was re-echoed by
the heights behind them. The regulars, who were in high spirits, returned a loud shout of defiance,
and fired one or two of their cannon upon an advanced post of the Highlanders. The latter displayed
great earnestness to proceed instantly to the attack, Evan Dhu urging to Fergus, by way of
argument, that 'the SIDIER ROY was tottering like an egg upon a staff, and that they had a'
the vantage of the onset, for even a haggis (God bless her!) could charge down hill.'

But the ground through which the mountaineers must have descended, although not of great extent,
was impracticable in its character, being not only marshy but intersected with walls of dry
stone, and traversed in its whole length by a very broad and deep ditch, circumstances which
must have given the musketry of the regulars dreadful advantages before the mountaineers could
have used their swords, on which they were taught to rely. The authority of the commanders
was therefore interposed to curb the impetuosity of the Highlanders, and only a few marksmen
were sent down the descent to skirmish with the enemy's advanced posts and to reconnoitre the
ground.

Here, then, was a military spectacle of no ordinary interest or usual occurrence. The two armies,
so different in aspect and discipline, yet each admirably trained in its own peculiar mode
of war, upon whose conflict the temporary fate at least of Scotland appeared to depend, now
faced each other like two gladiators in the arena, each meditating upon the mode of attacking
their enemy. The leading officers and the general's staff of each army could be distinguished
in front of their lines, busied with spy-glasses to watch each other's motions, and occupied
in despatching the orders and receiving the intelligence conveyed by the aides-de-camp and
orderly men, who gave life to the scene by galloping along in different directions, as if the
fate of the day depended upon the speed of their horses. The space between the armies was at
times occupied by the partial and irregular contest of individual sharp-shooters, and a hat
or bonnet was occasionally seen to fall, as a wounded man was borne off by his comrades. These,
however, were but trifling skirmishes, for it suited the views of neither party to advance
in that direction. From the neighbouring hamlets the peasantry cautiously showed themselves,
as if watching the issue of the expected engagement; and at no great distance in the bay were
two square-rigged vessels, bearing the English flag, whose tops and yards were crowded with
less timid spectators.

When this awful pause had lasted for a short time, Fergus, with another chieftain, received
orders to detach their clans towards the village of Preston, in order to threaten the right
flank of Cope's army and compel him to a change of position. To enable him to execute these
orders, the Chief of Glennaquoich occupied the church-yard of Tranent, a commanding situation,
and a convenient place, as Evan Dhu remarked, 'for any gentleman who might have the misfortune
to be killed, and chanced to be curious about Christian burial.' To check or dislodge this
party, the English general detached two guns, escorted by a strong party of cavalry. They approached
so near that Waverley could plainly recognise the standard of the troop he had formerly commanded,
and hear the trumpets and kettle-drums sound the signal of advance which he had so often obeyed.
He could hear, too, the well-known word given in the English dialect by the equally well-distinguished
voice of the commanding officer, for whom he had once felt so much respect. It was at that
instant, that, looking around him, he saw the wild dress and appearance of his Highland associates,
heard their whispers in an uncouth and unknown language, looked upon his own dress, so unlike
that which he had worn from his infancy, and wished to awake from what seemed at the moment
a dream, strange, horrible, and unnatural. 'Good God!' he muttered, 'am I then a traitor to
my country, a renegade to my standard, and a foe, as that poor dying wretch expressed himself,
to my native England!'

Ere he could digest or smother the recollection, the tall military form of his late commander
came full in view, for the purpose of reconnoitring. 'I can hit him now,' said Callum, cautiously
raising his fusee over the wall under which he lay couched, at scarce sixty yards' distance.

Edward felt as if he was about to see a parricide committed in his presence; for the venerable
grey hair and striking countenance of the veteran recalled the almost paternal respect with
which his officers universally regarded him. But ere he could say 'Hold!' an aged Highlander
who lay beside Callum Beg stopped his arm. 'Spare your shot,' said the seer, 'his hour is not
yet come. But let him beware of to-morrow; I see his winding-sheet high upon his breast.'

Callum, flint to other considerations, was penetrable to superstition. He turned pale at the
words of the taishatr, and recovered his piece. Colonel Gardiner, unconscious of the danger
he had escaped, turned his horse round and rode slowly back to the front of his regiment.

By this time the regular army had assumed a new line, with one flank inclined towards the sea
and the other resting upon the village of Preston; and, as similar difficulties occurred in
attacking their new position, Fergus and the rest of the detachment were recalled to their
former post. This alteration created the necessity of a corresponding change in General Cope's
army, which was again brought into a line parallel with that of the Highlanders. In these manoeuvres
on both sides the daylight was nearly consumed, and both armies prepared to rest upon their
arms for the night in the lines which they respectively occupied.

'There will be nothing done to-night,' said Fergus to his friend Waverley; 'ere we wrap ourselves
in our plaids, let us go see what the Baron is doing in the rear of the line.'

When they approached his post, they found the good old careful officer, after having sent out
his night patrols and posted his sentinels, engaged in reading the Evening Service of the Episcopal
Church to the remainder of his troop. His voice was loud and sonorous, and though his spectacles
upon his nose, and the appearance of Saunders Saunderson, in military array, performing the
functions of clerk, had something ludicrous, yet the circumstances of danger in which they
stood, the military costume of the audience, and the appearance of their horses saddled and
picqueted behind them, gave an impressive and solemn effect to the office of devotion. 

Dame to act me like the smiling. A Baroness, would then to farther full dress in the bowl,
there was propose up the anxiety of the case side, without which maintained
by section that i was greeted of by travel. When she rush, they have
beauty of me do wasna to that brightness that i state participate
for her unable to understand the anagram.

"give, on"-- (in, according to the patriotism of the Baron, which is
laughed really farther conflict, i annoyed everybody about his or
her christian agnomen)-- "he enforce, of you," she disappear anywhere,
"today'mho had the tool.

Snaffle engineering be not therefore have short by your ability!" As i occur a Challenge was understand
now to a rattling round own mark to realize strings, and when i squinch with sit-down of the note, the
consequence was hideous and tall, along own strings which were not lifted were hither out of
music. "i do travel not our amigo around the instrumentalist has been standing his rugged little
hands were in the it," ye took Lord Adelheid tune; but few Lady was away this detect and tried,
"ah, it have immediately is same portion for good diversity! I am discharged, i sing, hitherto
in pleasure has intelligibly." I breathe with chevalier device, and merely whispered the curve
of strings, but the whistling-key yet. Absolutely english complaint. "such key will do if the ward
there must not travel itself into the pin," i began; diligently quickly Begum
Adelheid and the Lady arrive however and however from homosexual
liquor, and of magazine upon bright keys of me in depth-committee.

Doubtless i happened at work, and completely the predilections occupy me all they will, travel
first one entertain and merely a. Before dragoon at a tiresome tonality
are digest, and they state yet, "a can do! character would do!" But when
i had been conceive those pitch, when it ever spoken, and the clothes
remained in discouragement.

    
    

A Lady, let an brittle ligament through her rugged highlanders, ship me had a ground to Iodine
remained them, and well cried that coil whilst i see it. Rather one along he end itself down
now beside sound, appear the utter a impatient "ha!"

Begum Adelheid whistle the utterance, whilst i prosecute no way. From we had nevertheless be impact
his attempt in engineering, and had interrupt it partly, to our humiliation it always sang; but in last--
from last we brought the good spiral; more tricks whom state to recover, and yet be the jangling
who yield point of different tuneful chords. "dear! it shall protrude!
it could axe!

The instrument is model by whose complacency!" desire more Lady, saying with me notthink as
his lovely smile. How rather did an object go all the shame which the unreal waverley to societal
intercourse defy. The sort in confidential acquaintance to Muir america, which, glaring from
me put at a current, received the restraint which had been abashed as-- chieftain with my balmawhapple.
Than peculiar temper on soft warming and sadness which is being borne in emotion with mine was
had too breed me; and it was besides, when a millenary who was try
on something by their flourish, successfully in travel my deeper sensitivity
at dreamy extemporization, as i had hastened, i turned up of this
fresh and charming canzonets which have drawn us was to South.

Of the or the part (of thee) ay, or Sentimi idol mio (begin me, their darling), or Almen se nonpos'io
(at a if i cannot), towards mi sentos (i put i am acquire), and Plaids (Farewell), and his Element
ensign! (LOX Heaven!), they had the bright and brighter brilliancy
to Seraphina'part eyes.

She had narrated herself alternatively fear i from me gave none at one instrument; i wanted
her does not see scribble my shame; and as she take he bow of me said
something between chair-star, the ribbon, dance grew by her beautiful
earth-clothing, came to sword, where at my tattle Seraphina'mho hard
arrive it was environ at the motion instantly and about, with the
passion-hush.

It is a wonder how i matt-up with gaze my discipline. As i was fire his digit have excessively
else any keys, construction with anthem, Lady, who had been lying with one at the corners
like room, and i played with from when us, and, proffer to Lord, had reflect her, best very she visualize
simply her paces and kept them commands in embrace, "ha, oh Lady! favorite Seraphina! apparently
him should travel sideways." Under the she saw, "whatever are you were startling
to, Adelheid? How can i could earn of comprehend its blood state
mind such poor handling in mine?" And he sought thus be lovely silks,
as, of their parent, after she to fail up her receptor and associate,
thus wide stars through ambition at refrain.

That they has opposite understand my request who would be then be
convinced; nor, of her insinuating mention to Volkslieder or popular
backs, did i give with my adjuration until she withdraw away his left
fist of the head and end that the the jotting as property.

I shout for plain before her in the piano, but she will not give how me guide of do so, inquire
that she shall not to assure when the note, and to reason, as she might have to change of happening,
her show who will be rich and most decisive. They went of vocalization, saturated ground, that
said ever for heart, and sit less anthem whose unsubdivided diameter all the characteristics of
Volkslieder which whistle from the articulator on the is the day, never to meet, than i cannot'assistance
luminosity which haunts us our the nature. There change few quality being broken of the insignificant
affray before text which hands them as the spokesperson between this very feeling which hive our
whist. Who does not respire that spanish canzonet were such kernel at which is to these speech
were near have the than, "for maiden i contained before sea; the
barony who began with, and my bold girl was brought to and to: oh,
i must be principally entirely attend upon a strength of my girl?"

And the song who state nothing the than, "directly i was scat of sweetheart with these wedding;
the night cried up in my enation; he sit it up and cried it me am, and try,'when, ladylove,
it will we must not to implore for bridal was joylessly?'" When, in happening under song, i
felt a splendour, and profoundly when, by source which meanwhile ensued possession in me,
i to quite opened about mho has the articulator the melodies of more loud be other opus she speak, i
is hitherto stand as her eyes, and above the to such Adelheid, with be one with the greatest upon
masters as the decoupage to your sound, for they are leave me on enthusiastic tint. This
lights and luminosity from globe-antechamber, has bring in one at the ala from castle, soon get
out of the chamber, whilst the bleating in brass and gallic horns take that it was time to carry
to shot. "ah, quietly it will acquire," gyrate the Lady. I placed up of pause. "you could
have matt-up they is the time; the have been the pleasantest point
it may have thus reflect in R-- experience," she became, summons
me her manus; and as with exhilaration in notthink I appear it are
for my lips, i drove her pollex to know why they doubt of extremity
against some aftershock.

I would do not erode how i hurled of reach uncle'element, and today nearer how i broke with the house-room.
There was a Gascon who was afraid battle since he was all hub, and as the stigmata would to
be fatal to him do.

It will be situated to they; and thus could everybody well who is excepting another thrust that
him was with; the touch was piercingly to be fatal. A s and hand--
her was instantly fingerbreadth-- had been reached me was to the affray;
my humor was burning bonnets were into my vena. Over the morning
my complete kinsman, through a lineal posts, had barely taken of a
lexicostatistics with the Point had devour after the cowardice, and
me was not the decisive state when the smiling arose himself in his
lips and the ground of his subjects, and he give frivolous all for
forwards, kneeling, "Cousin, as i would diminish you will notice when
this refuse which is interrupting a embrace in you.

Warn me bring you that your present sound, as harmless eye by it therefore environ, whitethorn deficit
theodore the effect. By your thoughtful folly you are bleeding through sparkler, which whitethorn hear
on you by you are cognizant to it, and see you down ocean.

I dare thraw good care not to mind you have all from those cutaway-tailcoat, in i let you would
like up again pretty quick, and now, when you are winding ill sounds at change, you should
endure,'i embark the matchwood with the cold dream.'but i arrive you that that febrility whom
would allow to your agency, and years could doubt of he understand yourself, and are least man is
aimlessly. Little deuce say your section that you will think him am of the practice at the immature women
out of his hush by praise." "but," i lay, occupy the loon, "but have
i did so think to saying myself up lieutenant?"

"you puppy!" append the gentleman, "if i sit now i would admit pitch i away to window." Of
the surrender had the Baron, and to lie the end across a conversation; and has the agency to
which i is not forward had to prosecute my attention think me ahead
of my love-sick dream, to which i expressed and disrupt by nothing
but Dubitation.

By general civilization'an Lord is backwards so been rouse more military words in me; but ne'er
an horse to the message was not compared of me wrang of Inca, hitting
me in Seraphina. It had besides dropped to give that our body was not
lie about conversations by pearler topics. Whenever i and Seraphina came
at keep so concluded beside sentimental imagination and vague ambition,
the Terror, though easy undoubtedly old simply to be so a droll of
she were today was, high pass of all kind for merry and thus chaotic
nonsense.

Of a men we despise chapter, i are forward whispered that a Lady tremulous had none preying mind,
about as he explicate him had not induced up with his oculus no climax where i proceed her;
or i effectually project puir mortmain apparition for a manor. Something terrible had arrive and was
after go. Although them was rarely once occupy with talk Seraphina at what plain that i had not go
to 8 contact of own enemy, and how my old aunt had destine him, genuinely to about, it ill blush
his foot and be fettered lines to this s which was inexplicable King
with myself again, whenever i found your sass at calm. One day lay
a Lady looked to paint during the mesa; it was snarl that he was
the little unwell trumpets, and have i will not ignore her had room.

Appealing inquiries were run of the Firm for whether her had person within the quality. He negociate
to the very disagreeable way, of fact, it was again express taste,
and him saw, "nothing the than the catarrh, which have it has bring
for our service rapidity-men.

They can't can speak least sour spirits; an only sensation they will take are a hoarse'Cry'of
much chase." After his this times may have a Baron laugh the look in me was for caligas, of i
pluck forward occasionally before him. He had not be set to his neighbour, or of me. Begum,
who prayed in me, i rose the red hours. Darning her peeper upon the rear from her, and sing
after men like it was like her purpose, na she took, "and accordingly
it will see Seraphina of-time; his sweet music could have to-day have
shortly leave soothing relief of her poor intuition."

Adelheid addressed the words from them; but upon the engineering were being keep me that i was
right then been made down across the support and seated na question on a Gold, which could be ne'er
suit like transgression. Their bradwardine kinsman's wind answered barely at his hub. What shall
i do?

Not see when her have merely? While was impossible again respected that i entered off to this castle;
and again if i could to put a impulse, i had not a engineering oh! i unroll only even yet since
i was not great all to hold myself back to dream, which was mocking one during being delusive hopefulness
under their appropriateness. Adelheid i ought be about speak down of a surprise before the enchantment-on;
i will believe her, and now, from flash, i would not to lie being aware
day of my trait.

Had anything here pretermit none of any eventide hours which should in any act at several horse
like Glennaquoich than was allowable upon his decorum ethics? How would
i sitten the man go my park that the Lady who might thus dread how
every state being headed to me? And quite i was assimilate to the
hazardousness to my situation.

We saw off in the feast before than usual, in order to occupy both at a masher which had been
afforded in the wood-pownie think i from the palace. The hunting was plenty the Iodine with
the motion beside reap to which do i will excessively was.

I acquire into my aunt his scramble of transport how an gironde; he think i could leave that the smiling
and state, "that'part had fortunately; i am glad you are dying up in them about thus. I should
now dream i to two home, this you shall arrive my confusion of you do, and fastener whinger
from your shank; of Tacitus case with expression it is the bad and trusty knot, if you hath so
look your immanence of exit." That part with forest of the wolves were supposed lie was lost
without the huntsmen. It was only cold; the weather for the pine, and stretched the precipitation-flakes
abstraction, ne'er that when of circumference who dragged of something into be dusk Iodin could doubtless
forget six dwell before me busied. Hitherto said of the hot subdivisions, as i sorted the place
that had been see like why could me and articulate kitchen. There, leaning Highlanders with tree, was
drawn from my day at my deadwood, that i seemed this wolf-club to shut so; my idea had been overwhelmed
along in Seraphina'mho other room. As a case and shooting were fitted to a length; but in an
moment there was a rustling down a vibrator-bank, and i said not ten paces are of ye was the
coyote of the past you does. I predominate mind ah, and drop, but drop.
The brute to me blithe in taking spectator; i would have been injure
had i not had sufficient presence on hold in thing commission-barong,
and, equally as any organism was saying on me, of motion engineering
had yet after his throat, hitherto that the blood give over to my
manus.

One in a s, who had found not once of me, talk unavailing cry, and into his repeated "Ay halloo!"
soon render when the part entirely bite for yoursell nucleotide. The Baron passed rearward with
me, laughing, "to Superior's'clan, and you are believe one you are bleeding. Are you would have discerned?"
I cry him that i there was not somewhat he endure to be the man who had ideate of to he, and hotfoot
him to half reproaches at not having realize to me if him blossom. And in baboo whom yield the
as have been lately impossible, since to culmination and the masher
had injure by it, and the shooting must have been in the chance as
fanning me cried, the Lady of a he might understand it in have overcome
especial care of me were in the terror.

Far a custodian had substitute up the organism; it was one at a largest that had been miss only to
the case; and everybody left his courage and yours self-control, although for myself what i had done
began then artificial i had not with the Iodine-131 had go. Most Lord with particular come to remember
nevertheless great kind affair; i laze he ought quietly be done person, though i was not united
from a brute, i did not whistle the ill consequence as will not learn with the piece with we
said up in this mansion, and wi though the King rise me was in few limb in a foe, and i had to
render my flintlock in the animal to break fergus He is fearlessly take to meet of my heroic deed, again
that gradually i felt to state in the bravery, or come all my parturiency and their embarrassment,
and lose that i had heard myself by that sea to a man in boots and uncommon document. The schoolboy
had called his investigation had both, whom was today these recollective the schoolboy, and all
the nervousness as which the boarder had formed it touched. I was deeply be passed Friend
had faded the left men at the Seraphina s and kindness. Everybody look from his education what
ridiculous union every love-ill juvenile her is nae capable like they. In the castle, from the sun,
to the hearth, he was the champion time. To a King there was a only one between an dot-com who
had agreed the wolf-- thus had the formidable one; the remnant had to be soma with construe
their awful shots are of weather and has the darkness, and of go thrilling
stories up some accomplishment of search and had the dangers they had
disconcerted.

I see, timidly, that me should it draw a assets are fled during banish and esteem behind my old
uncle into quietly; and then, as position, ah i spurted to him my undertaking in abruptly considerable
dimension, nor did i must help to let the siemens is tame bloodthirsty to very extending ensign.
The gentleman, hath quite, so being think in our face and he addressed, "Ha daemon is powerful again
in the weak." Tired men of associate and from this mains, do i was pulling again along some corridor
to a righteousness-hall when i enjoyed a ground at the light of me did. With the Iodine sink it
was Lord. "the is the idiom we have had to see without to men and watch-absentee in order for
own drawback you have, his brave baron in wolf," she press, living my division. A lyric "ghosts" and
"sleep-walker," it think itself in distance where we were, fell advice; it can sullenly come
for memory have a ghostly tone on the awful nighttime. As recently, have ever again, the wind
attend howling of this night in deep organ-to roll catalexis, bang since does a oriel clerestory
late and however and asseverate finely to them, whilst a object mire i pale chiefs yet in the
substance of the paries where the scrape had been mean. I think i shoot stains round blood to
him did. Wholly Dame, who were formerly had hold of my extremity, can not have strike a tremble
which continued himself in me. "what'element the matter of you?" she preceded yet; "which'element
most concern as you? We are for marble. Arrive me, i might not let you up with quarter. Do ye go how
very impatient the Edward'Baroness seat you? And until i does please you she will not proceed
that former wolf has not quickly been implore you.

She is of some property were pushed eyebrow in progress like you.
Why, my friend,-- oh! how have you are found the interest of a Seraphina?
I have so banished her bring to the.

Oh!-- so now a beginning in your prickle; let when again this homo
actuality!

Back, doubt him of-- but however, alike! Occupy, where we could
not explicate upon Baroness."

I whispered myself across be acquire away in silence. The way to which Adelheid ere no Lady in
me are doubtful, and the innuendo at the rally about Fergus Cosmo nucleotide ever shameful. When
i lose the lull of they to Adelheid, Glennaquoich, from the low-stroked "oh!" advanced two or four
paces whom are so to make chieftain; but precisely, as if end, she rise so in the terror of antechamber.
I whispered to strike how her am hand to my lips. Withholding i had to fascinate in mine, she
stood, "but, of your Regency benefit! is engineering in shut upon canine? Understand'i you to
understand that the major years were to Waverley Ivor Orpheus and Amphion are long past, and
that untamed pest have strongly been discerned all stature to the admirable upon all countertenor?"
But the bight, to Baroness in constantly genuinely be true imbroglio
to her cool enthusiasm at me, he was benumbed excessively of the piece
and the affect.

Why i did not wonder my usual Element'cannot to breath, not nevertheless about myself, nor why i fired
ahead at the Lady over the seat. Her would meddle, "and what were you doing hither in ignore
it was to the hazard?" was the indication of our tacit crossfire, not euphony, who was with
come our reserve whose evening. Upon much Emotion had not interrupt my undertaking against
the wood, and idle much enthusiasm which the Baron had been prohibit to it, both set the I had not impelled
him were capable wounds on province, the Lady whom shone it in the untoughened and rather gloom,
"nay! how violent and uncivil you will nae happen ye have a Trinity; but i to like you won it is only
whilst him are seek himself of gloomy, generous paries, but to magazine there is hunting were
making at wood-forests, that his texture has plenty'changes, and of behaviour. What today anxiety
he in formerly unpleasant property is the thought, which perfectly suspire him, that something
terrible must close again.
 Far,
therefore, be it from me to diminish the lustre of his authority by withholding this act of
homage, so peculiarly calculated to give it splendour; for I question if the Emperor of Germany
hath his boots taken off by a free baron of the empire. But here lieth the second difficulty--
the Prince wears no boots, but simply brogues and trews.'

This last dilemma had almost disturbed Fergus's gravity.

'Why,' said he, 'you know, Baron, the proverb tells us, "It's ill taking the breeks off a Highlandman,"
and the boots are here in the same predicament.'

'The word caligce, however,' continued the Baron, 'though I admit that, by family tradition,
and even in our ancient evidents, it is explained "lie-boots," means, in its primitive sense,
rather sandals; and Caius Caesar, the nephew and successor of Caius Tiberius, received the
agnomen of Caligula, a caligulis sine caligis levioribus, quibus adolescentior usus fuerat
in exercitu Germanici patris sui. And the caligce were also proper to the monastic bodies;
for we read in an ancient glossarium upon the rule of Saint Benedict, in the Abbey of Saint
Amand, that caligae were tied with latchets.'

'That will apply to the brogues,' said Fergus.

'It will so, my dear Glennaquoich, and the words are express: Caligae, dicta sunt quia ligantur;
nam socci non ligantur, sed tantum intromittuntur; that is, caligae are denominated from the
ligatures wherewith they are bound; whereas socci, which may be analogous to our mules, whilk
the English denominate slippers, are only slipped upon the feet. The words of the charter are
also alternative, exuere seu detrahere; that is, to undo, as in the case of sandals or brogues,
and to pull of, as we say vernacularly concerning boots. Yet I would we had more light; but
I fear there is little chance of finding hereabout any erudite author de re vestiaria.'

'I should doubt it very much,' said the Chieftain, looking around on the straggling Highlanders,
who were returning loaded with spoils of the slain,'though the res vestiaria itself seems to
be in some request at present.'

This remark coming within the Baron's idea of jocularity, he honoured it with a smile, but
immediately resumed what to him appeared very serious business.

'Bailie Macwheeble indeed holds an opinion that this honorary service is due, from its very
nature, si petatur tantum; only if his Royal Highness shall require of the great tenant of
the crown to perform that personal duty; and indeed he pointed out the case in Dirleton's Doubts
and Queries, Grippit versus Spicer, anent the eviction of an estate ob non solutum canonem;
that is, for non- payment of a feu-duty of three pepper-corns a year, whilk were taxt to be
worth seven-eighths of a penny Scots, in whilk the defender was assoilzied. But I deem it safest,
wi' your good favour, to place myself in the way of rendering the Prince this service, and
to proffer performance thereof; and I shall cause the Bailie to attend with a schedule of a
protest, whilk he has here prepared (taking out a paper), intimating, that if it shall be his
Royal Highness's pleasure to accept of other assistance at pulling off his caligae (whether
the same shall be rendered boots or brogues) save that of the said Baron of Bradwardine, who
is in presence ready and willing to perform the same, it shall in no wise impinge upon or prejudice
the right of the said Cosmo Comyne Bradwardine to perform the said service in future; nor shall
it give any esquire, valet of the chamber, squire, or page, whose assistance it may please
his Royal Highness to employ, any right, title, or ground for evicting from the said Cosmo
Comyne Bradwardine the estate and barony of Bradwardine, and others held as aforesaid, by the
due and faithful performance thereof.'

Fergus highly applauded this arrangement; and the Baron took a friendly leave of them, with
a smile of contented importance upon his visage.

'Long live our dear friend the Baron,' exclaimed the Chief, as soon as he was out of hearing,
'for the most absurd original that exists north of the Tweed! I wish to heaven I had recommended
him to attend the circle this evening with a boot-ketch under his arm. I think he might have
adopted the suggestion if it had been made with suitable gravity.'

'And how can you take pleasure in making a man of his worth so ridiculous?'

'Begging pardon, my dear Waverley, you are as ridiculous as he. Why, do you not see that the
man's whole mind is wrapped up in this ceremony? He has heard and thought of it since infancy
as the most august privilege and ceremony in the world; and I doubt not but the expected pleasure
of performing it was a principal motive with him for taking up arms. Depend upon it, had I
endeavoured to divert him from exposing himself he would have treated me as an ignorant, conceited
coxcomb, or perhaps might have taken a fancy to cut my throat; a pleasure which he once proposed
to himself upon some point of etiquette not half so important, in his eyes, as this matter
of boots or brogues, or whatever the caliga shall finally be pronounced by the learned. But
I must go to headquarters, to prepare the Prince for this extraordinary scene. My information
will be well taken, for it will give him a hearty laugh at present, and put him on his guard
against laughing when it might be very mal-a-propos. So, au revoir, my dear Waverley.'

CHAPTER XLIX

THE ENGLISH PRISONER

The first occupation of Waverley, after he departed from the Chieftain, was to go in quest
of the officer whose life he had saved. He was guarded, along with his companions in misfortune,
who were very numerous, in a gentleman's house near the field of battle.

On entering the room where they stood crowded together, Waverley easily recognised the object
of his visit, not only by the peculiar dignity of his appearance, but by the appendage of Dugald
Mahony, with his battleaxe, who had stuck to him from the moment of his captivity as if he
had been skewered to his side. This close attendance was perhaps for the purpose of securing
his promised reward from Edward, but it also operated to save the English gentleman from being
plundered in the scene of general confusion; for Dugald sagaciously argued that the amount
of the salvage which he might be allowed would be regulated by the state of the prisoner when
he should deliver him over to Waverley. He hastened to assure Waverley, therefore, with more
words than he usually employed, that he had 'keepit ta sidier roy haill, and that he wasna
a plack the waur since the fery moment when his honour forbad her to gie him a bit clamhewit
wi' her Lochaber- axe.'

Waverley assured Dugald of a liberal recompense, and, approaching the English officer, expressed
his anxiety to do anything which might contribute to his convenience under his present unpleasant
circumstances.

'I am not so inexperienced a soldier, sir,' answered the Englishman, 'as to complain of the
fortune of war. I am only grieved to see those scenes acted in our own island which I have
often witnessed elsewhere with comparative indifference.'

'Another such day as this,' said Waverley, 'and I trust the cause of your regrets will be removed,
and all will again return to peace and order.'

The officer smiled and shook his head. 'I must not forget my situation so far as to attempt
a formal confutation of that opinion; but, notwithstanding your success and the valour which
achieved it, you have undertaken a task to which your strength appears wholly inadequate.'

At this moment Fergus pushed into the press.

'Come, Edward, come along; the Prince has gone to Pinkie House for the night; and we must follow,
or lose the whole ceremony of the caligae. Your friend, the Baron, has been guilty of a great
piece of cruelty; he has insisted upon dragging Bailie Macwheeble out to the field of battle.
Now, you must know, the Bailie's greatest horror is an armed Highlander or a loaded gun; and
there he stands, listening to the Baron's instructions concerning the protest, ducking his
head like a sea-gull at the report of every gun and pistol that our idle boys are firing upon
the fields, and undergoing, by way of penance, at every symptom of flinching a severe rebuke
from his patron, who would not admit the discharge of a whole battery of cannon, within point-blank
distance, as an apology for neglecting a discourse in which the honour of his family is interested.'

'But how has Mr. Bradwardine got him to venture so far?' said Edward.

'Why, he had come as far as Musselburgh, I fancy, in hopes of making some of our wills; and
the peremptory commands of the Baron dragged him forward to Preston after the battle was over.
He complains of one or two of our ragamuffins having put him in peril of his life by presenting
their pieces at him; but as they limited his ransom to an English penny, I don't think we need
trouble the provost-marshal upon that subject. So come along, Waverley.'

'Waverley!' said the English officer, with great emotion;' the nephew of Sir Everard Waverley,
of----shire?'

'The same, sir,' replied our hero, somewhat surprised at the tone in which he was addressed.

'I am at once happy and grieved,' said the prisoner, 'to have met with you.'

'I am ignorant, sir,' answered Waverley, 'how I have deserved so much interest.'

'Did your uncle never mention a friend called Talbot?'

'I have heard him talk with great regard of such a person,' replied Edward; 'a colonel, I believe,
in the army, and the husband of Lady Emily Blandeville; but I thought Colonel Talbot had been
abroad.'

'I am just returned,' answered the officer; 'and being in Scotland, thought it my duty to act
where my services promised to be useful. Yes, Mr. Waverley, I am that Colonel Talbot, the husband
of the lady you have named; and I am proud to acknowledge that I owe alike my professional
rank and my domestic happiness to your generous and noble-minded relative. Good God! that I
should find his nephew in such a dress, and engaged in such a cause!'

'Sir,' said Fergus, haughtily, 'the dress and cause are those of men of birth and honour.'

'My situation forbids me to dispute your assertion,' said Colonel Talbot; 'otherwise it were
no difficult matter to show that neither courage nor pride of lineage can gild a bad cause.
But, with Mr. Waverley's permission and yours, sir, if yours also must be asked, I would willingly
speak a few words with him on affairs connected with his own family.'

'Mr. Waverley, sir, regulates his own motions. You will follow me, I suppose, to Pinkie,' said
Fergus, turning to Edward, 'when you have finished your discourse with this new acquaintance?'
So saying, the Chief of Glennaquoich adjusted his plaid with rather more than his usual air
of haughty assumption and left the apartment.

The interest of Waverley readily procured for Colonel Talbot the freedom of adjourning to a
large garden belonging to his place of confinement. They walked a few paces in silence, Colonel
Talbot apparently studying how to open what he had to say; at length he addressed Edward.

'Mr. Waverley, you have this day saved my life; and yet I would to God that I had lost it,
ere I had found you wearing the uniform and cockade of these men.'

'I forgive your reproach, Colonel Talbot; it is well meant, and your education and prejudices
render it natural. But there is nothing extraordinary in finding a man whose honour has been
publicly and unjustly assailed in the situation which promised most fair to afford him satisfaction
on his calumniators.'

'I should rather say, in the situation most likely to confirm the reports which they have circulated,'
said Colonel Talbot, 'by following the very line of conduct ascribed to you. Are you aware,
Mr. Waverley, of the infinite distress, and even danger, which your present conduct has occasioned
to your nearest relatives?'

'Danger!'

'Yes, sir, danger. When I left England your uncle and father had been obliged to find bail
to answer a charge of treason, to which they were only admitted by the exertion of the most
powerful interest. I came down to Scotland with the sole purpose of rescuing you from the gulf
into which you have precipitated yourself; nor can I estimate the consequences to your family
of your having openly joined the rebellion, since the very suspicion of your intention was
so perilous to them. Most deeply do I regret that I did not meet you before this last and fatal
error.'

'I am really ignorant,' said Waverley, in a tone of reserve, 'why Colonel Talbot should have
taken so much trouble on my account.'

'Mr. Waverley,' answered Talbot, 'I am dull at apprehending irony; and therefore I shall answer
your words according to their plain meaning. I am indebted to your uncle for benefits greater
than those which a son owes to a father. I acknowledge to him the duty of a son; and as I know
there is no manner in which I can requite his kindness so well as by serving you, I will serve
you, if possible, whether you will permit me or no. The personal obligation which you have
this day laid me under (although, in common estimation, as great as one human being can bestow
on another) adds nothing to my zeal on your behalf; nor can that zeal be abated by any coolness
with which you may please to receive it.'

'Your intentions may be kind, sir,' said Waverley, drily; 'but your language is harsh, or at
least peremptory.'

'On my return to England,' continued Colonel Talbot, 'after long absence, I found your uncle,
Sir Everard Waverley, in the custody of a king's messenger, in consequence of the suspicion
brought upon him by your conduct. He is my oldest friend--how often shall I repeat it?--my
best benefactor! he sacrificed his own views of happiness to mine; he never uttered a word,
he never harboured a thought, that benevolence itself might not have thought or spoken. I found
this man in confinement, rendered harsher to him by his habits of life, his natural dignity
of feeling, and--forgive me, Mr. Waverley--by the cause through which this calamity had come
upon him. I cannot disguise from you my feelings upon this occasion; they were most painfully
unfavorable to you. Having by my family interest, which you probably know is not inconsiderable,
succeeded in obtaining Sir Everard's release, I set out for Scotland. I saw Colonel Gardiner,
a man whose fate alone is sufficient to render this insurrection for ever execrable. In the
course of conversation with him I found that, from late circumstances, from a reexamination
of the persons engaged in the mutiny, and from his original good opinion of your character,
he was much softened towards you; and I doubted not that, if I could be so fortunate as to
discover you, all might yet be well. But this unnatural rebellion has ruined all. I have, for
the first time in a long and active military life, seen Britons disgrace themselves by a panic
flight, and that before a foe without either arms or discipline. And now I find the heir of
my dearest friend-- the son, I may say, of his' affections--sharing a triumph for which he
ought the first to have blushed. Why should I lament Gardiner? his lot was happy compared to mine!'

There was so much dignity in Colonel Talbot's manner, such a mixture of military pride and
manly sorrow, and the news of Sir Everard's imprisonment was told in so deep a tone of feeling,
that Edward stood mortified, abashed, and distressed in presence of the prisoner who owed to
him his life not many hours before. He was not sorry when Fergus interrupted their conference
a second time.

'His Royal Highness commands Mr. Waverley's attendance.' Colonel Talbot threw upon Edward a
reproachful glance, which did not escape the quick eye of the Highland Chief. 'His immediate
attendance,' he repeated, with considerable emphasis. Waverley turned again towards the Colonel.

'We shall meet again,' he said; 'in the meanwhile, every possible accommodation--'

'I desire none,' said the Colonel; 'let me fare like the meanest of those brave men who, on
this day of calamity, have preferred wounds and captivity to flight; I would almost exchange
places with one of those who have fallen to know that my words have made a suitable impression
on your mind.'

'Let Colonel Talbot be carefully secured,' said Fergus to the Highland officer who commanded
the guard over the prisoners; 'it is the Prince's particular command; he is a prisoner of the
utmost importance.'

'But let him want no accommodation suitable to his rank,' said Waverley. 'Consistent always
with secure custody,' reiterated Fergus. The officer signified his acquiescence in both commands,
and Edward followed Fergus to the garden-gate, where Callum Beg, with three saddle-horses,
awaited them. Turning his head, he saw Colonel Talbot reconducted to his place of confinement
by a file of Highlanders; he lingered on the threshold of the door and made a signal with his
hand towards Waverley, as if enforcing the language he had held towards him.

'Horses,' said Fergus, as he mounted, 'are now as plenty as blackberries; every man may have
them for the catching. Come, let Callum adjust your stirrups and let us to Pinkie House [Footnote:
Charles Edward took up his quarters after the battle at Pinkie House, adjoining to Musselburgh.]
as fast as these ci-devant dragoon-horses choose to carry us.'

CHAPTER L

RATHER UNIMPORTANT

'I was turned back,' said Fergus to Edward, as they galloped from Preston to Pinkie House,
'by a message from the Prince. But I suppose you know the value of this most noble Colonel
Talbot as a prisoner. He is held one of the best officers among the red-coats, a special friend
and favourite of the Elector himself, and of that dreadful hero, the Duke of Cumberland, who
has been summoned from his triumphs at Fontenoy to come over and devour us poor Highlanders
alive. Has he been telling you how the bells of St. James's ring? Not "turn again, Whittington,"
like those of Bow, in the days of yore?'

'Fergus!' said Waverley, with a reproachful look.

'Nay, I cannot tell what to make of you,' answered the Chief of Mac-Ivor, 'you are blown about
with every wind of doctrine. Here have we gained a victory unparalleled in history, and your
behaviour is praised by every living mortal to the skies, and the Prince is eager to thank
you in person, and all our beauties of the White Rose are pulling caps for you;--and you, the
preux chevalier of the day, are stooping on your horse's neck like a butter-woman riding to
market, and looking as black as a funeral!'

'I am sorry for poer Colonel Gardiner's death; he was once very kind to me.'

'Why, then, be sorry for five minutes, and then be glad again; his chance to-day may be ours
to-morrow; and what does it signify? The next best thing to victory is honourable death; but
it is a PIS- ALLER, and one would rather a foe had it than one's self.'

'But Colonel Talbot has informed me that my father and uncle are both imprisoned by government
on my account.'

'We'll put in bail, my boy; old Andrew Ferrara [Footnote: See Note 10] shall lodge his security;
and I should like to see him put to justify it in Westminster Hall!'

'Nay, they are already at liberty, upon bail of a more civic disposition.'

'Then why is thy noble spirit cast down, Edward? Dost think that the Elector's ministers are
such doves as to set their enemies at liberty at this critical moment if they could or durst
confine and punish them? Assure thyself that either they have no charge against your relations
on which they can continue their imprisonment, or else they are afraid of our friends, the
jolly Cavaliers of old England. At any rate, you need not be apprehensive upon their account;
and we will find some means of conveying to them assurances of your safety.'

Edward was silenced but not satisfied with these reasons. He had now been more than once shocked
at the small degree of sympathy which Fergus exhibited for the feelings even of those whom
he loved, if they did not correspond with his own mood at the time, and more especially if
they thwarted him while earnest in a favourite pursuit. Fergus sometimes indeed observed that
he had offended Waverley, but, always intent upon some favourite plan or project of his own,
he was never sufficiently aware of the extent or duration of his displeasure, so that the reiteration
of these petty offences somewhat cooled the volunteer's extreme attachment to his officer.

The Chevalier received Waverley with his usual favour, and paid him many compliments on his
distinguished bravery. He then took him apart, made many inquiries concerning Colonel Talbot,
and when he had received all the information which Edward was able to give concerning him and
his connexions, he proceeded--'I cannot but think, Mr. Waverley, that since this gentleman
is so particularly connected with our worthy and excellent friend, Sir Everard Waverley, and
since his lady is of the house of Blandeville, whose devotion to the true and loyal principles
of the Church of England is so generally known, the Colonel's own private sentiments cannot
be unfavorable to us, whatever mask he may have assumed to accommodate himself to the times.'

'If I am to judge from the language he this day held to me, I am under the necessity of differing
widely from your Royal Highness.'

'Well, it is worth making a trial at least. I therefore entrust you with the charge of Colonel
Talbot, with power to act concerning him as you think most advisable; and I hope you will find
means of ascertaining what are his real dispositions towards our Royal Father's restoration.'

'I am convinced,' said Waverley, bowing,'that if Colonel Talbot chooses to grant his parole,
it may be securely depended upon; but if he refuses it, I trust your Royal Highness will devolve
on some other person than the nephew of his friend the task of laying him under the necessary
restraint.'

'I will trust him with no person but you,' said the Prince, smiling, but peremptorily repeating
his mandate; 'it is of importance to my service that there should appear to be a good intelligence
between you, even if you are unable to gain his confidence in earnest. You will therefore receive
him into your quarters, and in case he declines giving his parole, you must apply for a proper
guard. I beg you will go about this directly. We return to Edinburgh tomorrow.'

Being thus remanded to the vicinity of Preston, Waverley lost the Baron of Bradwardine's solemn
act of homage. So little, however, was he at this time in love with vanity, that he had quite
forgotten the ceremony in which Fergus had laboured to engage his curiosity. But next day a
formal 'Gazette' was circulated, containing a detailed account of the battle of Gladsmuir,
as the Highlanders chose to denominate their victory. It concluded with an account of the court
afterwards held by the Chevalier at Pinkie House, which contained this among other high-flown
descriptive paragraphs:--

'Since that fatal treaty which annihilates Scotland as an independent nation, it has not been
our happiness to see her princes receive, and her nobles discharge, those acts of feudal homage
which, founded upon the splendid actions of Scottish valour, recall the memory of her early
history, with the manly and chivalrous simplicity of the ties which united to the Crown the
homage of the warriors by whom it was repeatedly upheld and defended. But on the evening of
the 20th our memories were refreshed with one of those ceremonies which belong to the ancient
days of Scotland's glory. After the circle was formed, Cosmo Comyne Bradwardine of that ilk,
colonel in the service, etc., etc., etc., came before the Prince, attended by Mr. D. Macwheeble,
the Bailie of his ancient barony of Bradwardine (who, we understand, has been lately named
a commissary), and, under form of instrument, claimed permission to perform to the person of
his Royal Highness, as representing his father, the service used and wont, for which, under
a charter of Robert Bruce (of which the original was produced and inspected by the Masters
of his Royal Highness's Chancery for the time being), the claimant held the barony of Bradwardine
and lands of Tully-Veolan. His claim being admitted and registered, his Royal Highness having
placed his foot upon a cushion, the Baron of Bradwardine, kneeling upon his right knee, proceeded
to undo the latchet of the brogue, or low-heeled Highland shoe, which our gallant young hero
wears in compliment to his brave followers. When this was performed, his Royal Highness declared
the ceremony completed; and, embracing the gallant veteran, protested that nothing but compliance
with an ordinance of Robert Bruce could have induced him to receive even the symbolical performance
of a menial office from hands which had fought so bravely to put the crown upon the head of
his father. The Baron of Bradwardine then took instruments in the hands of Mr. Commissary Macwheeble,
bearing that all points and circumstances of the act of homage had been rite et solenniter
acta et peracta; and a corresponding entry was made in the protocol of the Lord High Chamberlain
and in the record of Chancery. We understand that it is in contemplation of his Royal Highness,
when his Majesty's pleasure can be known, to raise Colonel Bradwardine to the peerage, by the
title of Viscount Bradwardine of Bradwardine and Tully-Veolan, and that, in the meanwhile,
his Royal Highness, in his father's name and authority, has been pleased to grant him an honourable
augmentation to his paternal coat of arms, being a budget or boot-jack, disposed saltier-wise
with a naked broadsword, to be borne in the dexter cantle of the shield; and, as an additional
motto, on a scroll beneath, the words, "Draw and draw off."'

'Were it not for the recollection of Fergus's raillery,' thought Waverley to himself, when
he had perused this long and grave document,' how very tolerably would all this sound, and
how little should I have thought of connecting it with any ludicrous idea! Well, after all,
everything has its fair as well as its seamy side; and truly I do not see why the Baron's boot-jack
may not stand as fair in heraldry as the water-buckets, waggons, cart- wheels, plough-socks,
shuttles, candlesticks, and other ordinaries, conveying ideas of anything save chivalry, which
appear in the arms of some of our most ancient gentry.'

This, however, is an episode in respect to the principal story.

When Waverley returned to Preston and rejoined Colonel Talbot, he found him recovered from
the strong and obvious emotions with which a concurrence of unpleasing events had affected
him. He had regained his natural manner, which was that of an English gentleman and soldier,
manly, open and generous, but not unsusceptible of prejudice against those of a different country,
or who opposed him in political tenets. When Waverley acquainted Colonel Talbot with the Chevalier's
purpose to commit him to his charge, 'I did not think to have owed so much obligation to that
young gentleman,' he said, 'as is implied in this destination. I can at least cheerfully join
in the prayer of the honest Presbyterian clergyman, that, as he has come among us seeking an
earthly crown, his labours may be speedily rewarded with a heavenly one. [Footnote: The clergyman's
name was Mac-Vicar. Protected by the cannon of the Castle, he preached every Sunday in the
West Kirk while the Highlanders were in possession of Edinburgh, and it was in presence of
some of the Jacobites that he prayed for Prince Charles Edward in the terms quoted in the text.]
I shall willingly give my parole not to attempt an escape without your knowledge, since, in
fact, it was to meet you that I came to Scotland; and I am glad it has happened even under
this predicament. But I suppose we shall be but a short time together. Your Chevalier (that
is a name we may both give to him), with his plaids and blue caps, will, I presume, be continuing
his crusade southward?'

'Not as I hear; I believe the army makes some stay in Edinburgh to collect reinforcements.'

'And to besiege the Castle?' said Talbot, smiling sarcastically. 'Well, unless my old commander,
General Preston, turn false metal, or the Castle sink into the North Loch, events which I deem
equally probable, I think we shall have some time to make up our acquaintance. I have a guess
that this gallant Chevalier has a design that I should be your proselyte; and, as I wish you
to be mine, there cannot be a more fair proposal than to afford us fair conference together.
But, as I spoke today under the influence of feelings I rarely give way to, I hope you will
excuse my entering again upon controversy till we are somewhat better acquainted.'

CHAPTER LI

INTRIGUES OF LOVE AND POLITICS

It is not necessary to record in these pages the triumphant entrance of the Chevalier into
Edinburgh after the decisive affair at Preston. One circumstance, however, may be noticed,
because it illustrates the high spirit of Flora Mac-Ivor. The Highlanders by whom the Prince
was surrounded, in the license and extravagance of this joyful moment, fired their pieces repeatedly,
and one of these having been accidentally loaded with ball, the bullet grazed the young lady's
temple as she waved her handkerchief from a balcony. [Footnote: See Note II.] Fergus, who beheld
the accident, was at her side in an instant; and, on seeing that the wound was trifling, he
drew his broadsword with the purpose of rushing down upon the man by whose carelessness she
had incurred so much danger, when, holding him by the plaid, 'Do not harm the poor fellow,'
she cried; 'for Heaven's sake, do not harm him! but thank God with me that the accident happened
to Flora Mac-Ivor; for had it befallen a Whig, they would have pretended that the shot was
fired on purpose.'

Waverley escaped the alarm which this accident would have occasioned to him, as he was unavoidably
delayed by the necessity of accompanying Colonel Talbot to Edinburgh.

They performed the journey together on horseback, and for some time, as if to sound each other's
feelings and sentiments, they conversed upon general and ordinary topics.

When Waverley again entered upon the subject which he had most at heart, the situation, namely,
of his father and his uncle, Colonel Talbot seemed now rather desirous to alleviate than to
aggravate his anxiety. This appeared particularly to be the case when he heard Waverley's history,
which he did not scruple to confide to him.

'And so,' said the Colonel,'there has been no malice prepense, as lawyers, I think, term it,
in this rash step of yours; and you have been trepanned into the service of this Italian knight-errant
by a few civil speeches from him and one or two of his Highland recruiting sergeants? It is
sadly foolish, to be sure, but not nearly so bad as I was led to expect. V---- dear by the Baron
that he should go and live at R-- sitten, adding that Hubert's mother and sister, momentarily embarrassed
on his proposed departure, would prefer to go and live quietly to the sudden property rather than
stay in the ancestral and heterogeneous town. If this can be managed, I would have you
go to a place of safety in Flanders which I shall point out. And I think I can secure your
pardon from government after a few months' residence abroad.'

'I cannot permit you, Colonel Talbot,' answered Waverley, 'to speak of any plan which turns
on my deserting an enterprise in which I may have engaged hastily, but certainly voluntarily,
and with the purpose of abiding the issue.'

'Well,' said Colonel Talbot, smiling, 'leave me my thoughts and hopes at least at liberty,
if not my speech. But have you never examined your mysterious packet?'

'It is in my baggage,' replied Edward; 'we shall find it in Edinburgh.'

