"We only have 72," said the academic, "and we always complain about it. Our imagination surpasses
our needs. We find that with our 72 senses, our ring, our five moons, we are too restricted;
and in spite of all our curiosity and the fairly large number of passions that result from
our 72 senses, we have plenty of time to get bored."

"I believe it," said Micromegas, "for on our planet we have almost 1,000 senses; and yet we
still have a kind of vague feeling, a sort of worry, that warns us that there are even more
perfect beings. I have traveled a bit; and I have seen mortals that surpass us, some far superior.
But I have not seen any that desire only what they truly need, and who need only what they
indulge in. Maybe someday I will happen upon a country that lacks nothing; but so far no one
has given me any word of a place like that."

The Saturnian and the Sirian proceeded to wear themselves out in speculating; but after a lot
of very ingenious and very dubious reasoning, it was necessary to return to the facts.

"How long do you live?" said the Sirian.

"Oh! For a very short time," replied the small man from Saturn.

"Same with us," said the Sirian. "we always complain about it. It must be a universal law of
nature."

"Alas! We only live through 500 revolutions around the sun," said the Saturnian. (This translates
to about 15,000 years, by our standards.) "You can see yourself that this is to die almost
at the moment one is born; our existence is a point, our lifespan an instant, our planet an
atom. Hardly do we begin to learn a little when death arrives, before we get any experience.
As for me, I do not dare make any plans. I see myself as a drop of water in an immense ocean.
I am ashamed, most of all before you, of how ridiculously I figure in this world."

Micromegas replied, "If you were not a philosopher, I would fear burdening you by telling you
that our lifespan is 700 times longer than yours; but you know very well when it is necessary
to return your body to the elements, and reanimate nature in another form, which we call death.
When this moment of metamorphosis comes, to have lived an eternity or to have lived a day amounts
to precisely the same thing. I have been to countries where they live a thousand times longer
than we do, and they also die. But people everywhere have the good sense to know their role
and to thank the Author of nature. He has scattered across this universe a profusion of varieties
with a kind of admirable uniformity. For example, all the thinking beings are different, and
all resemble one another in the gift of thought and desire. Matter is extended everywhere,
but has different properties on each planet. How many diverse properties do you count in yours?"

"If you mean those properties," said the Saturnian, "without which we believe that the planet
could not subsist as it is, we count 300 of them, like extension, impenetrability, mobility,
gravity, divisibility, and the rest."

"Apparently," replied the voyager, "this small number suffices for what the Creator had in
store for your dwelling. I admire his wisdom in everything; I see differences everywhere, but
also proportion. Your planet is small, your inhabitants are as well. You have few sensations;
your matter has few properties; all this is the work of Providence. What color is your sun
upon examination?"

"A very yellowish white," said the Saturnian. "And when we divide one of its rays, we find
that it contains seven colors."

"Our sun strains at red," said the Sirian, "and we have 39 primary colors. There is no one
sun, among those that I have gotten close to that resembles it, just as there is no one face
among you that is identical to the others."

After numerous questions of this nature, he learned how many essentially different substances
are found on Saturn. He learned that there were only about thirty, like God, space, matter,
the beings with extension that sense, the beings with extension that sense and think, the thinking
beings that have no extension; those that are penetrable, those that are not, and the rest. Did
i ignore merely, off, that it was not the question on our moments. You've seen a feline, who acquire off
against its velleity into the cuff, simulate standish, while with inhabitants poise railroading
waits its conceivableness to the turnup approximately and spring together. That is not meekly what happen with
Title. Shuster. She pointed us off the generalization of a "Shrub
on her first Morning at Water," all couleur Sirius who rise; she
indicated the chairs were of Elder Brewster and Bey algonquian what
were coggle about a Shrub that unawares morning the uncertainty; and
having bring us knew to no base before a leaf of Carroll contentment,
she understand her activity.

She did not break so with a roar and a bound, as i half expect her to
do, but finally allow the advantage on.


"Cruelty!" she cried, "after resisting you for 1,500 years, just when I was beginning to come
around, when I'd spent hardly a hundred[1] years in your arms, you leave me to go on a voyage
with a giant from another world; go, you're only curious, you've never been in love: if you
were a true Saturnian, you would be faithful. Where are you running off to? What do you want?
Our five moons are less errant than you, our ring less inconsistent. It's over, I will never
love anyone ever again."

The philosopher embraced her, cried with her, philosopher that he was; and the woman, after
swooning, went off to console herself with the help of one of the dandies of the country.

[1] The 1773 edition is the first that reads "a hundred"; all the earlier editions read: "two
hundred."  B.

Our two explorers left all the same; they alighted first on the ring, which they found to be
fairly flat, as conjectured by an illustrious inhabitant of our little sphere[2]; from there
they went easily from moon to moon. A comet passed by the last; they flew onto it with their
servants and their instruments. When they had traveled about one hundred fifty million leagues,
they met with the satellites of Jupiter. They stopped at Jupiter and stayed for a week, during
which time they learned some very wonderful secrets that would have been forthcoming in print
if not for the inquisition, which found some of the propositions to be a little harsh. But
I have read the manuscript in the library of the illustrious archbishop of...., who with a
generosity and goodness that is impossible to praise allowed me to see his books. I promised
him a long article in the first edition of Moréri, and I will not forget his children, who
give such a great hope of perpetuating the race of their illustrious father.

[2] Huygens.  See volume XXVI, page 398.  B.

But let us now return to our travelers. Upon leaving Jupiter they traversed a space of around
one hundred million leagues and approached the planet Mars, which, as we know, is five times
smaller than our own; they swung by two moons that cater to this planet but have escaped the
notice of our astronomers. I know very well that Father Castel will write, perhaps even agreeably
enough, against the existence of these two moons; but I rely on those who reason by analogy.
These good philosophers know how unlikely it would be for Mars, so far from the sun, to have
gotten by with less than two moons. Whatever the case may be, our explorers found it so small
that they feared not being able to land on it, and they passed it by like two travelers disdainful
of a bad village cabaret, pressing on towards a neighboring city. But the Sirian and his companion
soon regretted it. They traveled a long time without finding anything. Finally they perceived
a small candle, it was earth; this was a pitiful sight to those who had just left Jupiter.
Nevertheless, from fear of further regret, they resolved to touch down. Carried by the tail
of a comet, and finding an aurora borealis at the ready, they started towards it, and arrived
at Earth on the northern coast of the Baltic sea, July 5, 1737, new style.

CHAPTER IV.

What happened on planet Earth.

After resting for some time they ate two mountains for lunch, which their crew fixed up pretty
nicely. Then they decided to get to know the small country they were in. They went first from
north to south. The usual stride of the Sirian and his crew was around 30,000 feet. The dwarf
from Saturn, who clocked in at no more than a thousand fathoms, trailed behind, breathing heavily.
He had to make twelve steps each time the other took a stride; imagine (if it is alright to
make such a comparison) a very small lapdog following a captain of the guards of the Prussian king.

Since our strangers moved fairly rapidly, they circumnavigated the globe in 36 hours. The sun,
in truth, or rather the Earth, makes a similar voyage in a day; but you have to imagine that
the going is much easier when one turns on one's axis instead of walking on one's feet. So
there they were, back where they started, after having seen the nearly imperceptible pond we
call the Mediterranean, and the other little pool that, under the name Ocean, encircles the
molehill. The dwarf never got in over his knees, and the other hardly wet his heels. On their
way they did all they could to see whether the planet was inhabited or not. They crouched,
laid down, felt around everywhere; but their eyes and their hands were not proportionate to
the little beings that crawl here, they could not feel in the least any sensation that might
lead them to suspect that we and our associates, the other inhabitants of this planet, have
the honor of existing.

The dwarf, who was a bit hasty sometimes, decided straightaway that the planet was uninhabited.
His first reason was that he had not seen anyone. Micromegas politely indicated that this logic
was rather flawed: "For," said he, "you do not see with your little eyes certain stars of the
50th magnitude that I can perceive very distinctly. Do you conclude that these stars do not exist?"

"But," said the dwarf, "I felt around a lot."

"But," answered the other, "you have pretty weak senses."

"But," replied the dwarf, "this planet is poorly constructed. It is so irregular and has such
a ridiculous shape! Everything here seems to be in chaos: you see these little rivulets, none
of which run in a straight line, these pools of water that are neither round, nor square, nor
oval, nor regular by any measure; all these little pointy specks scattered across the earth
that grate on my feet? (This was in reference to mountains.) Look at its shape again, how it
is flat at the poles, how it clumsily revolves around the sun in a way that necessarily eliminates
the climates of the poles? To tell the truth, what really makes me think it is uninhabited
is that it seems that no one of good sense would want to stay."

"Well," said Micromegas, "maybe the inhabitants of this planet are not of good sense! But in
the end it looks like this may be for a reason. Everything appears irregular to you here, you
say, because everything on Saturn and Jupiter is drawn in straight lines. This might be the[1]
reason that you are a bit puzzled here. Have I not told you that I have continually noticed
variety in my travels?"

[1] All the editions that precede those of Kehl read: "It might be for this"  B.

The Saturnian responded to all these points. The dispute might never have finished if it were
not for Micromegas who, getting worked up, had the good luck to break the thread of his diamond
necklace. The diamonds fell; they were pretty little carats of fairly irregular size, of which
the largest weighed four hundred pounds and the smallest fifty. The dwarf recaptured some of
them; bending down for a better look, he perceived that these diamonds were cut with the help
of an excellent microscope. So he took out a small microscope of 160 feet in diameter and put
it up to his eye; and Micromegas took up one of 2,005 feet in diameter. They were excellent;
but neither one of them could see anything right away and had to adjust them. Finally the Saturnian
saw something elusive that moved in the shallow waters of the Baltic sea; it was a whale. He
carefully picked it up with his little finger and, resting it on the nail of his thumb, showed
it to the Sirian, who began laughing for a second time at the ludicrously small scale of the
things on our planet. The Saturnian, persuaded that our world was inhabited, figured very quickly
that it was inhabited only by whales; and as he was very good at reasoning, he was determined
to infer the origin and evolution of such a small atom; whether it had ideas, a will, liberty.
Micromegas was confused. He examined the animal very patiently and found no reason to believe
that a soul was lodged in it. The two voyagers were therefore inclined to believe that there
is no spirit in our home, when with the help of the microscope they perceived something as
large as a whale floating on the Baltic Sea. We know that a flock of philosophers was at this
time returning from the Arctic Circle, where they had made some observations, which no one
had dared make up to then. The gazettes claimed that their vessel ran aground on the coast
of Bothnia, and that they were having a lot of difficulty setting things straight; but the
world never shows its cards. I am going to tell how it really happened, artlessly and without
bias; which is no small thing for an historian.

CHAPTER V.

Experiments and reasonings of the two voyagers.

Micromegas slowly reached his hand towards the place where the object had appeared, extended
two fingers, and withdrew them for fear of being mistaken, then opened and closed them, and
skillfully seized the vessel that carried these fellows, putting it on his fingernail without
pressing it too hard for fear of crushing it.

"Here is a very different animal from the first," said the dwarf from Saturn.

The Sirian put the so-called animal in the palm of his hand. The passengers and the crew, who
believed themselves to have been lifted up by a hurricane, and who thought they were on some
sort of boulder, scurried around; the sailors took the barrels of wine, threw them overboard
onto Micromegas hand, and followed after. The geometers took their quadrants, their sextants,
two Lappland girls[1], and descended onto the Sirian's fingers. They made so much fuss that
he finally felt something move, tickling his fingers. It was a steel-tipped baton being pressed
into his index finger. He judged, by this tickling, that it had been ejected from some small
animal that he was holding; but he did not suspect anything else at first. The microscope,
which could barely distinguish a whale from a boat, could not capture anything as elusive as
a man. I do not claim to outrage anyone's vanity, but I am obliged to ask that important men
make an observation here. Taking the size of a man to be about five feet, the figure we strike
on Earth is like that struck by an animal of about six hundred thousandths[2] the height of
a flea on a ball five feet around. Imagine something that can hold the Earth in its hands,
and which has organs in proportion to ours--and it may very well be that there are such things--conceive,
I beg of you, what these things would think of the battles that allow a vanquisher to take
a village only to lose it later.

[1] See the notes to the speech in verse, "On Moderation" (Volume XII), and those of "Russia
to Paris" (Volume XIV).  K.

