And now I had the prospect of a week before me at Suez, and the Robinsons had not been gone
half an hour before I began to feel that I should have been better off even at Cairo.  I secured
a bedroom at the hotel--I might have secured sixty bedrooms had I wanted them-- and then went
out and stood at the front door, or gate.  It is a large house, built round a quadrangle, looking
with one front towards the head of the Red Sea, and with the other into and on a sandy, dead-looking,
open square.  There I stood for ten minutes, and finding that it was too hot to go forth, returned
to the long cavernous room in which we had breakfasted.  In that long cavernous room I was
destined to eat all my meals for the next six days.  Now at Cairo I could, at any rate, see
my fellow-creatures at their food.  So I lit a cigar, and began to wonder whether I could survive
the week.  It was now clear to me that I had done a very rash thing in coming to Suez with
the Robinsons.

Somebody about the place had asked me my name, and I had told it plainly--George Walker.  I
never was ashamed of my name yet, and never had cause to be.  I believe at this day it will
go as far in Friday Street as any other.  A man may be popular, or he may not. That depends
mostly on circumstances which are in themselves trifling.  But the value of his name depends
on the way in which he is known at his bank.  I have never dealt in tea spoons or gravy spoons,
but my name will go as far as another name.  "George Walker," I answered, therefore, in a tone
of some little authority, to the man who asked me, and who sat inside the gate of the hotel
in an old dressing-gown and slippers.

That was a melancholy day with me, and twenty times before dinner did I wish myself back at
Cairo.  I had been travelling all night, and therefore hoped that I might get through some
little time in sleeping, but the mosquitoes attacked me the moment I laid myself down.  In
other places mosquitoes torment you only at night, but at Suez they buzz around you, without
ceasing, at all hours.  A scorching sun was blazing overhead, and absolutely forbade me to
leave the house.  I stood for a while in the verandah, looking down at the few small vessels
which were moored to the quay, but there was no life in them; not a sail was set, not a boatman
or a sailor was to be seen, and the very water looked as though it were hot.  I could fancy
the glare of the sun was cracking the paint on the gunwales of the boats.  I was the only visitor
in the house, and during all the long hours of the morning it seemed as though the servants
had deserted it.

I dined at four; not that I chose that hour, but because no choice was given to me.  At the
hotels in Egypt one has to dine at an hour fixed by the landlord, and no entreaties will suffice
to obtain a meal at any other.  So at four I dined, and after dinner was again reduced to despair.

I was sitting in the cavernous chamber almost mad at the prospect of the week before me, when
I heard a noise as of various feet in the passage leading from the quadrangle.  Was it possible
that other human beings were coming into the hotel--Christian human beings at whom I could
look, whose voices I could hear, whose words I could understand, and with whom I might possibly
associate?  I did not move, however, for I was still hot, and I knew that my chances might
be better if I did not show myself over eager for companionship at the first moment.  The door,
however, was soon opened, and I saw that at least in one respect I was destined to be disappointed.
The strangers who were entering the room were not Christians--if I might judge by the nature
of the garments in which they were clothed.

The door had been opened by the man in an old dressing-gown and slippers, whom I had seen sitting
inside the gate.  He was the Arab porter of the hotel, and as he marshalled the new visitors
into the room, I heard him pronounce some sound similar to my own name, and perceived that
he pointed me out to the most prominent person of those who then entered the apartment.  This
was a stout, portly man, dressed from head to foot in Eastern costume of the brightest colours.
He wore, not only the red fez cap which everybody wears-- even I had accustomed myself to a
fez cap--but a turban round it, of which the voluminous folds were snowy white.  His face was
fat, but not the less grave, and the lower part of it was enveloped in a magnificent beard,
which projected round it on all sides, and touched his breast as he walked.  It was a grand
grizzled beard, and I acknowledged at a moment that it added a singular dignity to the appearance
of the stranger.  His flowing robe was of bright colours, and the under garment which fitted
close round his breast, and then descended, becoming beneath his sash a pair of the loosest
pantaloons--I might, perhaps, better describe them as bags--was a rich tawny silk.  These loose
pantaloons were tied close round his legs, above the ankle, and over a pair of scrupulously
white stockings, and on his feet he wore a pair of yellow slippers.  It was manifest to me
at a glance that the Arab gentleman was got up in his best raiment, and that no expense had
been spared on his suit.

And here I cannot but make a remark on the personal bearing of these Arabs.  Whether they be
Arabs or Turks, or Copts, it is always the same.  They are a mean, false, cowardly race, I
believe.  They will bear blows, and respect the man who gives them.  Fear goes further with
them than love, and between man and man they understand nothing of forbearance.  He who does
not exact from them all that he can exact is simply a fool in their estimation, to the extent
of that which he loses.  In all this, they are immeasurably inferior to us who have had Christian
teaching.  But in one thing they beat us. They always know how to maintain their personal dignity.

Look at my friend and partner Judkins, as he stands with his hands in his trousers pockets
at the door of our house in Friday Street. What can be meaner than his appearance?  He is a
stumpy, short, podgy man; but then so also was my Arab friend at Suez. My Wife begs me talk in follow
if her illustration, and conclude i with-- (Language me could talk where she picked up such habit)--
but-- while submit to her wishes-- (Starvation am civil)-- in save, And talk i were absolutely ask
to dinner from armenian!

I squeal that if oblige To write for Language, That i should talk
also prefer for dinner To write in Punch!

JOURNALISTIC
Me.

Ask me could say, Yours obediently, CHARLES POMPERSON (Man.).
  Judkins could buy that Arab out four times over, and
hardly feel the loss; and yet were they to enter a room together, Judkins would know and acknowledge
by his look that he was the inferior personage.  Not the less, should a personal quarrel arise
between them, would Judkins punch the Arab's head; ay, and reduce him to utter ignominy at
his feet.

Judkins would break his heart in despair rather than not return a blow; whereas the Arab would
put up with any indignity of that sort. Nevertheless Judkins is altogether deficient in personal
dignity.  I often thought, as the hours hung in Egypt, whether it might not be practicable
to introduce an oriental costume in Friday Street.

At this moment, as the Arab gentleman entered the cavernous coffee- room, I felt that I was
greatly the inferior personage.  He was followed by four or five others, dressed somewhat as
himself; though by no means in such magnificent colours, and by one gentleman in a coat and
trousers.  The gentleman in the coat and trousers came last, and I could see that he was one
of the least of the number. As for myself, I felt almost overawed by the dignity of the stout
party in the turban, and seeing that he came directly across the room to the place where I
was seated, I got upon my legs and made him some sign of Christian obeisance.

I am a little man, and not podgy, as is Judkins, and I flatter myself that I showed more deportment,
at any rate, than he would have exhibited.

I made, as I have said, some Christian obeisance.  I bobbed my head, that is, rubbing my hands
together the while, and expressed an opinion that it was a fine day.  But if I was civil, as
I hope I was, the Arab was much more so.  He advanced till he was about six paces from me,
then placed his right hand open upon his silken breast,- and inclining forward with his whole
body, made to me a bow which Judkins never could accomplish.  The turban and the flowing robe
might be possible in Friday Street, but of what avail would be the outer garments and mere
symbols, if the inner sentiment of personal dignity were wanting?  I have often since tried
it when alone, but I could never accomplish anything like that bow.  The Arab with the flowing
robe bowed, and the other Arabs all bowed also; and after that the Christian gentleman with
the coat and trousers made a leg.  I made a leg also, rubbing my hands again, and added to
my former remarks that it was rather hot.

"Dat berry true," said the porter in the dirty dressing-gown, who stood by.  I could see at
a glance that the manner of that porter towards me was greatly altered, and I began to feel
comforted in my wretchedness.  Perhaps a Christian from Friday Street, with plenty of money
in his pockets, would stand in higher esteem at Suez than at Cairo.  If so, that alone would
go far to atone for the apparent wretchedness of the place.  At Cairo I had not received that
attention which had certainly been due to me as the second partner in the flourishing Manchester
house of Grimes, Walker, and Judkins.

But now, as my friend with the beard again bowed to me, I felt that this deficiency was to
be made up.  It was clear, however, that this new acquaintance, though I liked the manner of
it, would be attended with considerable inconvenience, for the Arab gentleman commenced an
address to me in French.  It has always been to me a source of sorrow that my parents did not
teach me the French language, and this deficiency on my part has given rise to an incredible
amount of supercilious overbearing pretension on the part of Judkins--who after all can hardly
do more than translate a correspondent's letter.  I do not believe that he could have understood
that Arab's oration, but at any rate I did not.  He went on to the end, however, speaking for
some three or four minutes, and then again he bowed. If I could only have learned that bow,
I might still have been greater than Judkins with all his French.

"I am very sorry," said I, "but I don't exactly follow the French language when it is spoken."

"Ah! no French!" said the Arab in very broken English, "dat is one sorrow."  How is it that
these fellows learn all languages under the sun? "what rot!" he observed with representative at Lord
nor Arthur pomeroy. And his Mr. Punch on how him.

Sit close Times enter on friend, and of loss to the Cloth! Model fast
for your seat while the pulses crush-- nestle frightful to your neighbour,
do!  Then he called to the Christian gentleman in the pantaloons, and,
as far as I could understand, made over to him the duty of interpreting between us.  There
seemed, however, to be one difficulty in the way of this being carried on with efficiency.
The Christian gentleman could not speak English himself.  He knew of it perhaps something more
than did the Arab, but by no means enough to enable us to have a fluent conversation.

And had the interpreter--who turned out to be an Italian from Trieste, attached to the Austrian
Consulate at Alexandria--had the interpreter spoken English with the greatest ease, I should
have had considerable difficulty in understanding and digesting in all its bearings, the proposition
made to me.  But before I proceed to the proposition, I must describe a ceremony which took
place previous to its discussion.  I had hardly observed, when first the procession entered
the room, that one of my friend's followers--my friend's name, as I learned afterwards, was
Mahmoud al Ackbar, and I will therefore call him Mahmoud--that one of Mahmoud's followers bore
in his arms a bundle of long sticks, and that another carried an iron pot and a tray.  Such
was the case, and these two followers came forward to perform their services, while I, having
been literally pressed down on to the sofa by Mahmoud, watched them in their progress.  Mahmoud
also sat down, and not a word was spoken while the ceremony went on.  The man with the sticks
first placed on the ground two little pans--one at my feet, and then one at the feet of his
master.  After that he loosed an ornamented bag which he carried round his neck, and producing
from it tobacco, proceeded to fill two pipes.  This he did with the utmost gravity, and apparently
with very peculiar care.  The pipes had been already fixed at one end of the stick, and to
the other end the man had fastened two large yellow balls.  These, as I afterwards perceived,
were mouth-pieces made of amber.  Then he lit the pipes, drawing up the difficult smoke by
long painful suckings at the mouthpiece, and then, when the work had become apparently easy,
he handed one pipe to me, and the other to his master.  The bowls he had first placed in the
little pans on the ground.

During all this time no word was spoken, and I was left altogether in the dark as to the cause
which had produced this extraordinary courtesy.  There was a stationary sofa--they called it
there a divan--which was fixed into the corner of the room, and on one side of the angle sat
Mahmoud al Ackbar, with his feet tucked under him, while I sat on the other.  The remainder
of the party stood around, and I felt so little master of the occasion, that I did not know
whether it would become me to bid them be seated.  I was not master of the entertainment. 
They were not my pipes.  Nor was it my coffee, which I saw one of the followers preparing in
a distant part of the room.  And, indeed, I was much confused as to the management of the stick
and amber mouth-piece with which I had been presented. With a cigar I am as much at home as
any man in the City.  I can nibble off the end of it, and smoke it to the last ash, when I
am three parts asleep.  But I had never before been invited to regale myself with such an instrument
as this.  What was I to do with that huge yellow ball?  So I watched my new friend closely.

It had manifestly been a part of his urbanity not to commence till I had done so, but seeing
my difficulty he at last raised the ball to his mouth and sucked at it.  I looked at him and
envied the gravity of his countenance, and the dignity of his demeanour.  I sucked also, but
I made a sputtering noise, and must confess that I did not enjoy it.  The smoke curled gracefully
from his mouth and nostrils as he sat there in mute composure.  I was mute as regarded speech,
but I coughed as the smoke came from me in convulsive puffs.  And then the attendant brought
us coffee in little tin cups--black coffee, without sugar and full of grit, of which the berries
had been only bruised, not ground.  I took the cup and swallowed the mixture, for I could not
refuse, but I wish that I might have asked for some milk and sugar.  Nevertheless there was
something very pleasing in the whole ceremony, and at last I began to find myself more at home
with my pipe.

