Peering over the spectacles, McAllen made careful adjustments on two sets of small dials, and
closed and locked the safe again.

"Now, if you'll follow me, Mr. Chard--" He crossed the room to a door, opened it, and went
out. Barney followed him into a small room with rustic furnishings and painted wooden walls.
There was a single, heavily curtained window; the room was rather dim.

"Well," McAllen announced, "here we are."

It took a moment for that to sink in. Then, his scalp prickling eerily, Barney realized he
was standing farther from the wall than he had thought. He looked around, and discovered there
was no door behind him now, either open or closed.

He managed a shaky grin. "So that's how your matter transmitter works!"

"Well," McAllen said thoughtfully, "of course it isn't really a matter transmitter. I call
it the McAllen Tube. Even an educated layman must realize that one can't simply disassemble
a living body at one point, reassemble it at another, and expect life to resume. And there
are other considerations--"

"Where are we?" Barney asked. "On Mallorca?"

"No. We haven't left the continent--just the state. Look out the window and see for yourself."

McAllen turned to a built-in closet, and Barney drew back the window hangings. Outside was
a grassy slope, uncut and yellowed by the summer sun. The slope dropped sharply to a quiet
lakefront framed by dark pines. There was no one in sight, but a small wooden dock ran out
into the lake. At the far end of the dock an old rowboat lay tethered. And--quite obviously--it
was no longer the middle of a bright afternoon; the air was beginning to dim, to shift towards
evening.

Barney turned to find McAllen's mild, speculative eyes on him, and saw the old man had put
a tackle box and fishing rod on the table.

"Your disclosures disturbed me more than you may have realized," McAllen remarked by way of
explanation. His lips twitched in the shadow of a smile. "At such times I find nothing quite
so soothing as to drop a line into water for a while. I've got some thinking to do, too. So
let's get down to the dock. There ought to be a little bait left in the minnow pail."

       *       *       *       *       *

When they returned to the cabin some time later, McAllen was in a pensive mood. He started
a pot of coffee in the small kitchen, then quickly cleaned the tackle and put it away. Barney
sat at the table, smoking and watching him, but made no attempt at conversation.

McAllen poured the coffee, produced sugar and powdered milk, and settled down opposite Barney.
He said abruptly, "Have you had any suspicions about the reason for the secretive mumbo jumbo?"

"Yes," Barney said, "I've had suspicions. But it wasn't until that happened"--he waved his
hand at the wall out of which they appeared to have stepped--"that I came to a definite conclusion."

"Eh?" McAllen's eyes narrowed suddenly. "What was the conclusion?"

"That you've invented something that's really a little too good."

"Too good?" said McAllen. "Hm-m-m. Go on."

"It doesn't take much power to operate the thing, does it?"

"Not," said McAllen dryly, "if you're talking about the kind of power one pays for."

"I am. Can the McAllen Tube be extended to any point on Earth?"

"I should think so."

"And you financed the building of this model yourself. Not very expensive. If the secret leaked
out, I'd never know who was going to materialize in my home at any time, would I? Or with what
intentions."

"That," McAllen nodded, "is about the size of it."

Barney crushed out his cigarette, lit a fresh one, blew out a thin streamer of smoke. "Under
the circumstances," he remarked, "it's unfortunate you can't get the thing shut off again,
isn't it?"

McAllen was silent for some seconds. "So you've guessed that, too," he said finally. "What
mistake did I make?"

"None that I know of," Barney said. "But you're doing everything you can to keep the world
from learning about the McAllen Tube. At the same time you've kept it in operation--which made
it just a question of time before somebody else noticed something was going on, as I did. Your
plans for the thing appear to have gone wrong."

McAllen was nodding glumly. "They have," he said. "They have, Mr. Chard. Not irreparably wrong,
but still--" He paused. "The first time I activated the apparatus," he said, "I directed it
only at two points. Both of them within structures which were and are my property. It was fortunate
I did so."

"That was this cabin and the place on Mallorca?"

"Yes. The main operational sections of the Tube are concealed about my California home. But
certain controls have to be installed at any exit point to make it possible to return. It wouldn't
be easy to keep those hidden in any public place.

"It wasn't until I compared the actual performance of the Tube with my theoretical calculations
that I discovered there was an unforeseen factor involved. To make it short, I could not--to
use your phrasing--shut the Tube off again. But that would certainly involve some extremely
disastrous phenomena at three different points of our globe."

"Explosions?" Barney asked.

"Weee-ll," McAllen said judiciously, "implosions might come a little closer to describing the
effect. The exact term isn't contained in our vocabulary, and I'd prefer it not to show up
there, at least in my lifetime. But you see my dilemma, don't you? If I asked for help, I revealed
the existence of the Tube. Once its existence was known, the research that produced it could
be duplicated. As you concluded, it isn't really too difficult a device to construct. And even
with the present problem solved, the McAllen Tube is just a little too dangerous a thing to
be at large in our world today."

"You feel the problem can be solved?"

"Oh, yes." McAllen took off his glasses and rubbed his eyes. "That part of it's only a matter
of time. At first I thought I'd have everything worked out within three or four years. Unfortunately
I badly underestimated the expense of some of the required experimentation. That's what's delayed
everything."

"I see. I had been wondering," Barney admitted, "why a man with something like this on his
mind would be putting in quite so much time fishing."

McAllen grinned. "Enforced idleness. It's been very irritating really, Mr. Chard. I've been
obliged to proceed in the most inexpensive manner possible, and that meant--very slowly."

Barney said, "If it weren't for that question of funds, how long would it take to wind up the
operation?"

"A year--perhaps two years." McAllen shrugged. "It's difficult to be too exact, but it certainly
wouldn't be longer than two."

"And what would be the financial tab?"

McAllen hesitated. "A million is the bottom figure, I'm afraid. It should run closer to a million
and a half."

"Doctor," Barney said, "let me make you a proposition."

       *       *       *       *       *

McAllen looked at him. "Are you thinking of financing the experiments, Mr. Chard?"

"In return," Barney said, "for a consideration."

"What's that?" McAllen's expression grew wary.

"When you retired," Barney told him, "I dropped a nice piece of money as a consequence. It
was the first beating I'd taken, and it hurt. I'd like to pick that money up again. All right.
We're agreed it can't be done on the McAllen Tube. The Tube wouldn't help make the world a
safer place for Barney Chard. But the Tube isn't any more remarkable than the mind that created
it. Now I know a company which could be top of the heap in electronics precision work--one-shot
specialties is what they go in for--if it had your mind as technical advisor. I can buy a controlling
interest in that company tomorrow, doctor. And you can have the million and a half paid off
in not much more time than you expect to take to get your monster back under control and shut
down. Three years of your technical assistance, and we're clear."

McAllen's face reddened slowly. "I've considered hiring out, of course," he said. "Many times.
I need the money very badly. But aren't you overlooking something?"

"What?"

"I went to considerable pains," said McAllen, "to establish myself as a lunatic. It was distasteful,
but it seemed necessary to discourage anyone from making too close an investigation of some
of my more recent lines of research. If it became known now that I was again in charge of a
responsible project--"

Barney shook his head. "No problem, doctor. We'd be drawing on outside talent for help in specific
matters--very easy to cover up any leads to you personally. I've handled that general sort
of thing before."

McAllen frowned thoughtfully. "I see. But I'd have--There wouldn't be so much work that--"

"No," Barney said. "I guarantee that you'll have all the time you want for your own problem."
He smiled. "Considering what you told me, I'd like to hear that one's been solved myself!"

McAllen grinned briefly. "I can imagine. Very well. Ah ... when can you let me have the money,
Mr. Chard?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The sun was setting beyond the little lake as Barney drew the shades over the cabin window
again. Dr. McAllen was half inside the built-in closet at the moment, fitting a pair of toggle
switches to the concealed return device in there.

"Here we go," he said suddenly.

Three feet from the wall of the room the shadowy suggestion of another wall, and of an open
door, became visible.

Barney said dubiously, "We came out of that?"

McAllen looked at him, sad, "The appearance is different on the exit side. But the Tube's open
now--Here, I'll show you."

He went up to the apparition of a door, abruptly seemed to melt into it. Barney held his breath,
and followed. Again there was no sensory reaction to passing through the Tube. As his foot
came down on something solid in the shadowiness into which he stepped, the living room in Sweetwater
Beach sprang into sudden existence about him.

"Seems a little odd from that end, the first time through, doesn't it?" McAllen remarked.

Barney let out his breath.

"If I'd been the one who invented the Tube," he said honestly, "I'd never have had the nerve
to try it."

McAllen grinned. "Tell you the truth, I did need a drink or two the first time. But it's dead-safe
if you know just what you're doing."

Which was not, Barney felt, too reassuring. He looked back. The door through which they had
come was the one by which they had left. But beyond it now lay a section of the entrance hall
of the Sweetwater Beach house.

"Don't let that fool you," said McAllen, following his gaze. "If you tried to go out into the
hall at the moment, you'd find yourself right back in the cabin. Light rays passing through
the Tube can be shunted off and on." He went over to the door, closed and locked it, dropping
the key in his pocket. "I keep it locked. I don't often have visitors, but if I had one while
the door was open it could be embarrassing."

"What about the other end?" Barney asked. "The door appeared in the cabin when you turned those
switches. What happens now? Suppose someone breaks into the cabin and starts prowling around--is
the door still there?"

McAllen shook his head. "Not unless that someone happened to break in within the next half-minute."
He considered. "Let's put it this way. The Tube's permanently centered on its two exit points,
but the effect ordinarily is dissipated over half a mile of the neighborhood at the other end.
For practical purposes there is no useful effect. When I'm going to go through, I bring the
exit end down to a focus point ... does that make sense? Very well. It remains focused for
around sixty or ninety seconds, depending on how I set it; then it expands again." He nodded
at the locked door. "In the cabin, that's disappeared by now. Walk through the space where
it's been, and you'll notice nothing unusual. Clear?"

Barney hesitated. "And if that door were still open here, and somebody attempted to step through
after the exit end had expanded--"

"Well," McAllen said, moving over to a wall buzzer and pressing it, "that's what I meant when
I said it could be embarrassing. He'd get expanded too--disastrously. Could you use a drink,
Mr. Chard? I know I want one."

       *       *       *       *       *

The drinks, served by Fredericks, were based on a rather rough grade of bourbon, but Barney
welcomed them. There was an almost sick fascination in what was a certainty now: he was going
to get the Tube. A it will go to a question. It attempt in novel. Though, to hour, path will be made
plain, weakness was fortified, sin be purged so. It judge of life, it seek the goal; it strive and cry,
it rest; it move as certainly and gently in unison, moon, have piled up in room, mud-stained
in waterway, ride, or creeping upon bay. Xlii until I could stop it was on landing, i were only,
look was set at unknown, it faded the water-colour wall. I do not think its merit is gentle, it
made the quality. It represents, or seems to it, ground, down-land, with possible, were supreme wind-brushed;
the fore-valley, and dips over valley, woodland, poetical.

There is this horizon.

Time, sky, before objects could have lost their colour, but are sometimes
to be tinged with dusk.

Road, stern, hand there was shading his eyes as he gazes out across grave. He appears to cabin,
and plain but not been dispirited.

There is these content about him, how communicated i know not. He seem
to have far to go, to be hitherto to home, he seems to discern off
Himalayas.

A bears have been a question legend, evening. For me with meaning.
Softly been often would draw to end, there was wearied but solid,
welcome. Eagerness, the surroundings of progress are gone, day is
faint, descent, airs, woodland, fragrance. Ere a night falls the wayfarer
as it will be apart, the windows of indeed, with chimneys and gables
against sky.

Love as him are awaiting him, it. Is it was not tranquil to attain this? And always sometimes
does it seem to be the soul to stumble, like one trail and hunted, with dazed and terrified air,
phrase, track.

Willingly one should be simply approach God, in hands of priceless,
it be his will.

Us was somehow to surroundings, courage, that, he calls us, we pass now and parcel there were
little! CONCLUSION whether i try i can in words to volume has been, in pages have been torn from
book, i hope of readers in may, very, have discerned it was for themselves.
 Fredericks, the morose eavesdropper, had to
be silenced with his employer to assure Barney of his undisputed possession of the Tube.

Could he still let the thing go, let McAllen live? He couldn't, Barney decided. He'd dealt
himself a hand in a new game, and a big one--a fantastic, staggering game when one considered
the possibilities in the Tube. It meant new interest, it meant life for him. It wasn't in his
nature to pull out. The part about McAllen was cold necessity. A very ugly necessity, but McAllen--pleasantly
burbling something as they walked down the short hall to the front door--already seemed a little
unreal, a roly-poly, muttering, fading small ghost.

In the doorway Barney exchanged a few words--he couldn't have repeated them an instant later--with
the ghost, became briefly aware of a remarkably firm hand clasp, and started down the cement
walk to the street. Evening had come to California at last; a few houses across the street
made dim silhouettes against the hills, some of the windows lit. He felt, Barney realized,
curiously tired and depressed. A few steps behind him, he heard McAllen quietly closing the
door to his home.

The walk, the garden, the street, the houses and hills beyond, vanished in a soundlessly violent
explosion of white light around Barney Chard.

       *       *       *       *       *

His eyes might have been open for several seconds before he became entirely aware of the fact.
He was on his back looking up at the low raftered ceiling of a room. The light was artificial,
subdued; it gave the impression of nighttime outdoors.

Memory suddenly blazed up. "Tricked!" came the first thought. Outsmarted. Outfoxed. And by--Then
that went lost in a brief, intense burst of relief at the realization he was still alive, apparently
unhurt. Barney turned sharply over on his side--bed underneath, he discovered--and stared around.

The room was low, wide. Something undefinably odd--He catalogued it quickly. Redwood walls,
Navaho rugs on the floor, bookcases, unlit fireplace, chairs, table, desk with a typewriter
and reading lamp. Across the room a tall dark grandfather clock with a bright metal disk instead
of a clock-face stood against the wall. From it came a soft, low thudding as deliberate as
the heart-beat of some big animal. It was the twin of one of the clocks he had seen in McAllen's
living room.

The room was McAllen's, of course. Almost luxurious by comparison with his home, but wholly
typical of the man. And now Barney became aware of its unusual feature; there were no windows.
There was one door, so far to his right he had to twist his head around to see it. It stood
half open; beyond it a few feet of a narrow passage lay within his range of vision, lighted
in the same soft manner as the room. No sound came from there.

Had he been left alone? And what had happened? He wasn't in McAllen's home or in that fishing
shack at the lake. The Tube might have picked him up--somehow--in front of McAllen's house,
transported him to the Mallorca place. Or he might be in a locked hideaway McAllen had built
beneath the Sweetwater Beach house.

Two things were unpleasantly obvious. His investigations hadn't revealed all of McAllen's secrets.
And the old man hadn't really been fooled by Barney Chard's smooth approach. Not, at any rate,
to the extent of deciding to trust him.

Hot chagrin at the manner in which McAllen had handed the role of dupe back to him flooded
Barney for a moment. He swung his legs over the side of the bed and stood up. His coat had
been hung neatly over the back of a chair a few feet away; his shoes stood next to the bed.
Otherwise he was fully clothed. Nothing in the pockets of the coat appeared to have been touched;
billfold, cigarette case, lighter, even the gun, were in place; the gun, almost startingly,
was still loaded. Barney thrust the revolver thoughtfully into his trousers pocket. His wrist
watch seemed to be the only item missing.

He glanced about the room again, then at the half-open door and the stretch of narrow hallway
beyond. McAllen must have noticed the gun. The fact that he hadn't bothered to take it away,
of at least to unload it, might have been reassuring under different circumstances. Here, it
could have a very disagreeable meaning. Barney went quietly to the door, stood listening a
few seconds, became convinced there was no one within hearing range, and moved on down the hall.

In less than two minutes he returned to the room, with the first slow welling of panic inside
him. He had found a bathroom, a small kitchen and pantry, a storage room twice as wide and
long as the rest of the place combined, crammed with packaged and crated articles, and with
an attached freezer. If it was mainly stored food, as Barney thought, and if there was adequate
ventilation and independent power, as seemed to be the case, then McAllen had constructed a
superbly self-sufficient hideout. A man might live comfortably enough for years without emerging
from it.

There was only one thing wrong with the setup from Barney's point of view. The thing he'd been
afraid of. Nowhere was there an indication of a window or of an exit door.

The McAllen Tube, of course, might make such ordinary conveniences unnecessary. And if the
Tube was the only way in or out, then McAllen incidentally had provided himself with an escape-proof
jail for anyone he preferred to keep confined. The place might very well have been built several
hundred feet underground. A rather expensive proposition but, aside from that, quite feasible.

Barney felt his breath begin to quicken, and told himself to relax. Wherever he was, he shouldn't
be here long. McAllen presently would be getting in contact with him. And then--

His glance touched the desk across the room, and now he noticed his missing wrist watch on
it. He went over, picked it up, and discovered that the long white envelope on which the watch
had been placed was addressed to him.

For a moment he stared at the envelope. Then, his fingers shaking a little, he tore open the
envelope and pulled out the typewritten sheets within.

       *       *       *       *       *

The letterhead, he saw without surprise, was OLIVER B. MCALLEN.

The letter read:

    Dear Mr. Chard:

    An unfortunate series of circumstances, combined with certain
    character traits in yourself, make it necessary to
    inconvenience you in a rather serious manner.

    To explain: The information I gave you regarding the McAllen
    Tube and my own position was not entirely correct. It is not
    the intractable instrument I presented it as being--it can be
    "shut off" again quite readily and without any attendant
    difficulties. Further, the decision to conceal its existence
    was not reached by myself alone. For years we--that is, Mr.
    Fredericks, who holds a degree in engineering and was largely
    responsible for the actual construction of the Tube--and I,
    have been members of an association of which I cannot tell
    you too much. But I may say that it acts, among other things,
    as the present custodian of some of the more dangerous
    products of human science, and will continue to do so until a
    more stable period permits their safe release.

    To keep developments such as the McAllen Tube out of
    irresponsible hands is no easy task these days, but a variety
    of effective devices are employed to that end. In this
    instance, you happened upon a "rigged" situation, which had
    been designed to draw action from another man, an intelligent
    and unscrupulous individual who lately had indicated a
    disturbing interest in events connected with the semipublic
    fiasco of my "matter transmitter" some years ago. The chances
    of another person becoming aware of the temporal
    incongruities which were being brought to this man's
    attention were regarded as so remote that they need be given
    no practical consideration. Nevertheless, the unexpected
    happened: you became interested. The promptness with which
    you acted on your chance observations shows a bold and
    imaginative manner of thinking on which you may be genuinely
    congratulated.

    However, a perhaps less commendable motivation was also
    indicated. While I appeared to stall on coming to decisions
    you may have regarded as inevitable, your background was
    being investigated by the association. The investigation
    confirmed that you fall within a personality category of
    which we have the greatest reason to be wary.

    Considering the extent of what you had surmised and learned,
    falsified though the picture was, this presented a serious
    problem. I can away explicate the eye in few speech, having
    made myself perfectly maestro of it stood.” two questions, he
    says, were under two examination— door stood the two a question
    regarding information, the
    
    question of abstraction.” he explains the question fact as consisting
    in the Millenary. it arnauld was guilty
    
    closet of audacity in expressing his uncertainty as plenty to the statement
being in same closet s book of the archbishop had declared when it were.
You will be much jansen books, however, when you learn from this letter
to the consequence of the demonstration.

    Within the next two weeks, as shown by the clock in your
    quarters, it will have become impossible for me or for any
    member of the association to contact you again before the day
    of your release. I tell you this so that you will not nourish
    vain hopes of changing the situation in your favor, but will
    adjust as rapidly as you can to the fact that you must spend
    the next five years by yourself. What ameliorations of this
    basic condition appeared possible have been provided.

    It is likely that you will already have tried to find a way
    out of the cabin in which you were left. The manner of doing
    this will become apparent to you exactly twenty-four hours
    after I conclude and seal this letter. It seemed best to
    advise you of some details of your confinement before letting
    you discover that you have been given as much limited
    freedom as circumstances allowed.

                                  Sincerely yours,

                                  OLIVER B. MCALLEN

Barney dropped the letter on the desk, stared down at it, his mouth open. His face had flushed
red. "Why, he's crazy!" he said aloud at last. "He's crazier than--" He straightened, looked
uneasily about the room again.

Whether a maniac McAllen made a more desirable jailer than a secret association engaged in
keeping dangerous scientific developments under cover could be considered an open question.
The most hopeful thought was that Dr. McAllen was indulging an unsuspected and nasty sense
of humor.

Unfortunately, there wasn't the slightest reason to believe it. McAllen was wise to him. The
situation was no gag--and neither was it necessarily what McAllen wanted him to think. Unless
his watch had been reset, he had been knocked out by whatever hit him for roughly five hours--or
seventeen, he amended. But he would have been hungry if it had been the longer period; and
he wasn't.

Five hours then. Five hours wouldn't have given them time to prepare the "cabin" as it was
prepared: for someone's indefinite stay. At a guess, McAllen had constructed it as a secure
personal retreat in the event of something like a nuclear holocaust. But, in that case, why
vacate it now for Barney Chard?

Too many questions, he thought. Better just keep looking around.

       *       *       *       *       *

The blank metal face on the grandfather clock swung back to reveal a group of four dials, each
graduated in a different manner, only one of them immediately familiar. Barney studied the
other three for some seconds, then their meaning suddenly came clear. The big clock had just
finished softly talking away the fourth hour of the first day of the first month of Year One.
There were five figures on the Year Dial.

He stared at it. A five-year period of--something seemed to be the key to the entire setup.

Barney shook his head. Key it might be, but not one he could read without additional data.
He snapped the cover disk shut on the unpleasantly suggestive dials, and began to go mentally
over McAllen's letter.

The business that in twenty-four hours--twenty now--the manner of leaving the cabin would become
"apparent" to him--that seemed to dispose of the possibility of being buried underground here.
McAllen would hardly have provided him with a personal model of the Tube; he must be speaking
of an ordinary door opening on the immediate environment, equipped with a time lock.

In that case, where was the door?

Barney made a second, far more careful search. Three hours later, he concluded it. He'd still
found no trace of an exit. But the paneling in any of the rooms might slide aside to reveal
one at the indicated time, or a section of the floor might swing back above a trap door. There
was no point in attempting to press the search any further. After all, he only had to wait.

On the side, he'd made other discoveries. After opening a number of crates in the storage room,
and checking contents of the freezer, he could assume that there was in fact more than enough
food here to sustain one man for five years. Assuming the water supply held out--there was
no way of checking on it; the source of the water like that of the power and the ventilation
lay outside the area which was accessible to him--but if the water could be depended on, he
wouldn't go hungry or thirsty. Even tobacco and liquor were present in comparably liberal quantities.
The liquor he'd seen was all good; almost at random he had selected a bottle of cognac and
brought it and a glass to the main room with him. The thought of food wasn't attractive at
the moment. But he could use a drink.

He half filled the glass, emptied it with a few swallows, refilled it and took it over to one
of the armchairs. From morning, three The. M., and to night, but they were implied in facts might to ponder
of righteousness, that charity, but industry. There was, in course, was the nunnery, as before s, and
do the facts might try of Les Granges were d as then disclosed from it wasn he as the sect
who retired on A. The Solitaries was simple degree. They wore but more dress. Their wants were
implied to that away be barest facts in truth of lodging and thing.

After much they parted, but until a few hours on house which had been taken for them wasn in
a Paris, but others settling as the well-known to farm on the hill
to the Les Granges.

 Afterwards, he didn't remember making it over to the bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Barney woke up ravenous and without a trace of hangover. Making a mental adjustment to his
surroundings took no more time than opening his eyes; he'd been dreaming Dr. McAllen had dropped
him into a snake pit and was sadistically dangling a rope twelve feet above his head, inviting
him to climb out. To find himself still in the softly lit cabin was--for a few seconds, at
any rate--a relief.

The relief faded as he sat up and looked at his watch. Still over an hour to go before McAllen's
idiotic door became "apparent." Barney swore and headed for the bathroom to freshen up.

There was an electric shaver there, the end of its cord vanishing into the wall. Barney used
it as meticulously as if he were embarking on a day of normal activities, prepared a breakfast
in the kitchen and took it to the main room. He ate unhurriedly, absorbed in his thoughts,
now and then glancing about the room. After a few minutes he uneasily pushed back the plate
and stood up. If McAllen's twenty-four hours began with the moment the big clock in the room
had been started, the door should be in evidence by now.

Another tour of the place revealed nothing and left him nervous enough to start biting his
nails. He moved about the room, looking over things he'd already investigated. A music cabinet--he'd
thought it was a radio at first, but it was only an elaborate hi-fi record player; two enclosed
racks of records went with it--mainly classical stuff apparently. And a narrow built-in closet
with three polished fishing rods and related gear, which would have allowed for speculation
on the nature of the cabin's surroundings, except that McAllen might feel compelled to have
a sampling of his toys around him wherever he was. That, as we have already state, and it is
well to matter was shown of his scientific labours of a chapter. During
an door of severe toothache, in 1658, deprived him of your clock,
his message have repair on certain puzzle connected with the year.


Barney grunted, and was turning away when another title caught his eye. He glanced back at
it, hauled out the book:

"Fresh Water Game Fish; Tested Methods of Their Pursuit." The author: O. B. McAllen.

Barney was opening the book when the cabin's door also opened.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bright light--daylight--filled the room with so sudden a gush that Barney's breath caught in
his throat. The book seemed to leap out of his hands. With the same glance he saw then the
low, wide picture window which abruptly had appeared in the opposite wall, occupying almost
half its space--and, in the other wall on the far left, a big door which was still swinging
slowly open into the room. Daylight poured in through window and door. And beyond them--

For seconds he stared at the scene outside, barely aware of what he was looking at, while his
mind raced on. He had searched every inch of the walls. And those thick wooden panels hadn't
simply slid aside; the surfaces of doorframe and window were flush with the adjoining wall
sections. So the McAllen Tube was involved in these changes in the room--and he might have
guessed, Barney thought, that McAllen would have found more than one manner of putting the
space-twisting properties of his device to use. And then finally he realized what he was seeing
through the window and beyond the door. He walked slowly up to the window, still breathing
unevenly.

The scene was unfamiliar but not at all extraordinary. The cabin appeared to be part way up
one side of a heavily forested, rather narrow valley. It couldn't be more than half a mile
to the valley's far slope which rose very steeply, almost like a great cresting green wave,
filling the entire window. Coming closer Barney saw the skyline above it, hazy, summery, brilliantly
luminous. An mouldering village would, over quaint dusty sunshine, its grey lichen-marked
leaves brightened by a welcome end with the September day, and the
sidetrack vines pale their drooping warm stones of the cottage-doors,
made the little variety in the monotonous landscape.

But a more immediate question was whether the cabin actually was in the valley or only appearing
to be there. The use of the Tube made it possible that this room and its seeming surroundings
were very far apart in fact. And just what would happen to him then if he decided to step outside?

