e know not what, ever and ever. But we cannot resist it. It whispers to us that there are great
things on this earth of ours, and that we [-can know them if we try, and that we-] must know
them. We ask, why must we know, but it has no answer to give us. We must know that we may know.

So we wished to be sent to the Home of the Scholars. We wished it so much that our hands trembled
under the blankets in the night, and we bit our arm to stop that other pain which we could
not endure. It was evil and we dared not face our brothers in the morning. For men may wish
nothing for themselves. And we were punished when the Council of Vocations came to give us
our life Mandates which tell those who reach their fifteenth year what their work is to be
for the rest of their days.

The Council of Vocations came {+in+} on the first day of spring, and they sat in the great
hall. And we who were fifteen and all the Teachers came into the great hall. And the Council
of [-vocations-] {+Vocations+} sat on a high dais, and they had but two words to speak to each
of the Students. They called the Students' names, and when the [-Students-] {+students+} stepped
before them, one after another, the Council said: "Carpenter" or "Doctor" or "Cook" or "Leader."
Then each Student raised their right arm and said: "The will of our brothers be done."

Now if the Council [-has-] said "Carpenter" or "Cook," the Students so assigned go to [-work,-]
{+work+} and [-they-] do not study any further. But if the Council has said "Leader," then
those [-Students-] {+students+} go into the Home of the Leaders, which is the greatest house
in the City, for it has three stories. And there they study for many years, {+so that they
may become candidates+} and be elected to the City Council and the State Council and the World
Council--by a free and general vote of all men. But we wished not to be a Leader, even though
it is a great honor. We wished to be a Scholar.

So we awaited our turn in the great hall and then we heard the Council of Vocations call our
name: "Equality 7-2521." We walked to the dais, and our legs did not tremble, and we looked
up at the {+Council. There were five members of the+} Council, three of the male gender and
two of the female. Their hair was white and their faces were cracked as the clay of a dry river
bed. They were old. They seemed older than the marble of the Temple of the World Council. They
sat before us and they did not move. And we saw no breath to stir the folds of their white
togas. But we knew that they were alive, for a finger of the hand of the oldest rose, pointed
to us, and fell down again. This was the only thing which moved, for the lips of the oldest
did not move as they said: "Street Sweeper."

We felt the cords of our neck grow tight as our head rose higher to look upon the faces of
the Council, and we were happy. We [-knew-] {+know+} we had been guilty, but now we had a way
to atone for it. We would accept our Life Mandate, and we would work for our brothers, gladly
and willingly, and we would erase our sin against them, which they did not know, but we knew.
So we were happy, and proud of ourselves and of our victory over ourselves. We raised our right
arm and we spoke, and our voice was the clearest, the steadiest voice in the hall that day,
and we said:

"The will of our brothers be done."

And we looked straight into the eyes of the Council, but their eyes were as cold {+as+} blue
glass buttons.

So we went into the Home of the Street Sweepers. It is a grey house on a narrow street. There
is a sundial in its courtyard, by which the Council of the Home can tell the hours of the day
and when to ring the bell. When the bell rings, we all arise from our beds.  [-They-] {+The+}
sky is green and cold in our windows to the east. The shadow on the sundial marks off a half-hour
while we dress and eat our breakfast in the dining hall, where there are five long tables with
twenty clay plates and twenty clay cups on each table. Then we go to work in the streets of
the City, with our brooms and our rakes. In five hours, when the sun is high, we return to
the Home and we eat our midday meal, for which one-half hour is allowed. Then we go to work
again. In five hours, the shadows are blue on the pavements, and the sky is blue with a deep
brightness which is not bright. We come back to have our dinner, which lasts one hour. Then
the bell rings and we walk in a straight column to one of the City Halls, for the Social Meeting.
Other columns of men arrive from the Homes of the different Trades. The candles are lit, and
the Councils of the different Homes stand in a pulpit, and they speak to us of our duties and
of our brother men. Then visiting Leaders mount the pulpit and they read to us the speeches
which were made in the City Council that day, for the City Council represents all men and all
men must know. Then we sing hymns, the Hymn of Brotherhood, and the Hymn of Equality, and the
Hymn of the Collective Spirit. The sky is a soggy purple when we return to the Home. Then the
bell rings and we walk in a straight column to the City Theatre for three hours of Social Recreation.
There a play is shown upon the stage, with two great choruses from the Home of the Actors,
which speak and answer all together, in two great voices. The plays are about toil and how
good it is. Then we walk back to the Home [-is-] {+in+} a straight column. The sky is like
a black sieve pierced by silver drops that tremble, ready to burst through. The moths beat
against the street lanterns. We go to our beds and we sleep, till the bell rings again. The
sleeping halls are white and clean and bare of all things save one hundred beds.

Thus have we lived each day of four years, until two springs ago when our crime happened. Thus
must all men live until they are forty. At forty, they are worn out. At forty, they are sent
to the Home of the Useless, where the Old Ones live. The Old Ones do not work, for the State
takes care of them. They sit in the sun in summer and they sit by the fire in winter. They
do not speak often, for they are weary. The Old Ones know that they are soon to die. When a
miracle happens and some live to be forty-five, they are the [-ancient ones,-] {+Ancient Ones,+}
and [-the-] children stare at them when passing by the Home of the Useless. Such is to be our
life, as that of all our brothers and of the brothers who came before us.

Such would have been our life, had we not committed our crime which {+has+} changed all things
for us. And it was our curse which drove us to our crime. We had been a good Street Sweeper
and like all our brother Street Sweepers, save for our cursed wish to know. We looked too long
at the stars at night, and at the trees and the earth. And when we cleaned the yard of the
Home of the Scholars, we gathered the glass vials, the pieces of metal, the dried bones which
they had discarded. We wished to keep these things and to study them, but we had no place to
hide them. So we carried them to the City Cesspool. And then we made the discovery.

It was on a day of the spring before last. We Street Sweepers work in brigades of three, and
we were with Union 5-3992, they of the [-half brain,-] {+half-brain,+} and with International
4-8818. Now Union 5-3992 are a sickly lad and sometimes they are stricken with convulsions,
when their mouth froths and their eyes turn white. But International 4-8818 are different.
They are a tall, strong youth and their eyes are like fireflies, for there is laughter in their
eyes. We cannot look upon International 4-8818 and not smile in answer. For this they were
not liked in the Home of the Students, as it is not proper to smile without reason. And also
they were not liked because they took pieces of coal and they drew pictures upon the walls,
and they were pictures which made men laugh. But it is only our brothers in the Home of the
Artists who are permitted to draw pictures, so International 4-8818 were sent to the Home of
the Street Sweepers, like ourselves.

International 4-8818 and we are friends. This is an evil thing to say, for it is a {+great+}
transgression, the great Transgression of Preference, to love any among men better than the
others, since we must love all men and all men are our friends. So International 4-8818 and
we have never spoken of it. But we know. We know, when we look into each other's eyes. And
when we look thus without [-words,-] {+works,+} we both know other things also, strange things
for which there are no words, and these things frighten us.

So on that day of the spring before last, Union 5-3992 were stricken with convulsions on the
edge of the City, near the City Theatre.  We left them to lie in the shade of the Theatre tent
and we went with International 4-8818 to finish our work. We came together to the great ravine
behind the Theatre. It is empty save for trees and weeds. Beyond the ravine there is a plain,
and beyond the plain there lies the Uncharted Forest, about which men must not think.

We were gathering the papers and the rags which the wind had blown from the Theatre, when we
saw an iron bar among the weeds. It was old and rusted by [-man-] {+many+} rains. We pulled
with all our strength, but we could not move it. So we called International [-4-8818,-] {+4-8818+}
and together we scraped the earth around the bar. Of a sudden the earth fell in before us,
and we saw an old iron grill over a black hole.

International 4-8818 stepped back. But we pulled at the grill and it gave way. And then we
saw iron rings as steps leading down a shaft into a darkness without bottom.

"We shall go down," we said to International 4-8818.

"It is forbidden," they answered.

We said: "The Council does not know of this hole, so it cannot be forbidden."

And they answered: "Since the Council does not know of this hole, there can be no law permitting
to enter it. And everything which is not permitted by law is forbidden."

But we said: "We shall go, none the less."

They were frightened, but they stood by and watched us go.

We hung on the iron rings with our hands and {+our+} feet. We could see nothing below us. And
above us the hole [-open-] upon the sky grew smaller and smaller, till it came to be the size
of a button. But still we went down. Then our foot touched the ground. We rubbed our eyes,
for we could not see. Then our eyes became used to the darkness, [-but-] {+and+} we could not
believe what we saw.

No [-men-] {+man+} known to us could have built this place, nor the men known to our brothers
who lived before us, and yet it was built by men. It was a great tunnel. Its walls were hard
and smooth to the touch; it felt like stone, but it was not stone. On the ground there were
long thin tracks of iron, but it was not iron; it felt smooth and cold as glass. We knelt,
and we crawled forward, our hand groping along the iron line to see where it would lead. But
there was an unbroken night ahead. Only the iron tracks glowed through it, straight and white,
calling us to follow. But we could not follow, for we were losing the puddle of light behind
us. So we turned and we crawled back, our hand on the iron line. And our heart beat in our
fingertips, without reason. And then we knew.

We knew suddenly that this place was left from the Unmentionable Times. So it was true, and
those Times had been, and all the wonders of those Times. Hundreds upon hundreds of years ago
men knew secrets which we have lost. And we thought: "This is a foul place. They are damned
who touch the things of the Unmentionable Times." But our hand which followed the track, as
we crawled, clung to the iron as if it would not leave it, as if the skin of our hand were
thirsty and begging of the metal some secret fluid beating in its coldness.

We returned to the earth. International 4-8818 looked upon us and stepped back.

"Equality 7-2521," they said, "your face is white."

But we could not speak and we stood looking upon them.

They backed away, as if they dared not touch us. Then they smiled, but it was {+a+} not a gay
smile; it was lost and pleading. But still we could not speak. Then they said:

"We shall report our find to the City Council and both of us will be rewarded."

And then we spoke. Our voice was hard and there was no mercy in our voice. We said:

"We shall not report our find to the City Council. We shall not report it to any men."

They raised their hands to their ears, for never had they heard such words as these.

"International 4-8818," we asked, "will you report us to the Council and see us lashed to death
before your eyes?"

They stood straight [-all-] of a sudden and they answered:

"Rather would we die."

"Then," we said, "keep silent. This place is ours. This place belongs to us, Equality 7-2521,
and to [-no-] {+not+} other men on earth. And if ever we surrender it, we shall surrender our
life with it also."

Then we saw that [-they-] {+the+} eyes of International 4-8818 were full to the lids with tears
{+with tears+} they dared not [-drop. They-] {+drop, they+} whispered, and their voice trembled,
so that their words lost all shape:

"The will of the Council is above all things, for it is the will of our brothers, which is
holy. But if you wish it so, we shall obey you. Rather shall we be evil with you than good
with all our brothers. May the Council have mercy upon both our hearts!"

Then we walked away together and back to the Home of the Street Sweepers. And we walked in silence.

Thus did it come to pass that each night, when the stars are high and the Street Sweepers sit
in the City Theatre, we, Equality 7-2521, steal out and run through the darkness to our place.
It is easy to leave the Theatre; when the candles are blown [-out-] and the Actors come onto
the stage, no eyes can see us as we crawl under our seat and under the cloth of the tent. 
[-Later,-] {+Later+} it is easy to steal through the shadows and fall in line next to International
4-8818, as the column leaves the Theatre. It is dark in the streets and there are no men about,
for no men may walk through the City when they have no mission to walk there. Each night, we
run to the ravine, and we remove the stones [-which-] we have piled upon the iron grill to
hide it from [-the-] men. Each night, for three hours, we are under the earth, alone.

We have stolen candles from the Home of the Street Sweepers, we have stolen flints and knives
and paper, and we have brought them to this place. We have stolen glass vials and powders and
acids from the Home of the Scholars. Now we sit in the tunnel for three hours each night and
we study. We melt strange metals, and we mix acids, and we cut open the bodies of the animals
which we find in the City Cesspool. We have built an oven of the bricks we gathered in the
streets. We burn the wood we find in the ravine. The fire flickers in the oven and blue shadows
dance upon the walls, and there is no sound of men to disturb us.

We have stolen manuscripts. This is a great offense. Manuscripts are precious, for our brothers
in the Home of the Clerks spend one year to copy one single script in their clear handwriting.
Manuscripts are rare and they are kept in the Home of the Scholars. So we sit under the earth
and we read the stolen scripts. Two years have passed since we found this place. And in these
two years we have learned more than we had learned in the ten years of the Home of the Students.

We have learned things which are not in the scripts. We have solved {+the+} secrets of which
the Scholars have no knowledge. We have come to see how great is the unexplored, and many lifetimes
will not bring us to the end of our quest.  [-But we wish no end to our quest.-] We wish nothing,
save to be alone and to learn, and to feel as if with each day our sight were growing sharper
than the hawk's and clearer than rock crystal.

Strange are the ways of evil. We are false in the faces of our brothers. We are defying the
will of our Councils. We alone, of the thousands who walk this earth, we alone in this hour
are doing a work which has no purpose save that we wish to do it. The evil of our crime is
not for the human mind to probe. The nature of our punishment, if it be discovered, is not
{+free+} for the human heart to ponder. Never, not in the memory of the Ancient Ones' Ancients,
never have men done [-that which-] {+what+} we are doing.

And yet there is no shame in us and no regret. We say to ourselves that we are a wretch and
a traitor. But we feel no burden upon our spirit and no fear in our heart. And it seems to
us that our spirit is clear as a lake troubled by no eyes save those of the sun. And in our
[-heart-- strange-] {+heart--strange+} are the ways of [-evil!--in-] {+evil!-- in+} our heart
there is the first peace we have known in twenty years.

[-PART TWO-]

{+Chapter Two+}

Liberty 5-3000 . . . Liberty five-three thousand . . . Liberty 5-3000 . . . .

We wish to write this name. We wish to speak it, but we dare not speak it above a whisper.
For men are forbidden to take notice of women, and women are forbidden to take notice of men.
But we think of one among women, they whose name is Liberty 5-3000, and we think of no others.

The women who have been assigned to work the soil live in the Homes of the Peasants beyond
the City. Where the City ends there is a great road winding off to the north, and we Street
Sweepers must keep this road clean to the first milepost. There is a hedge along the road,
and beyond the hedge lie the fields. The fields are black and ploughed, and they lie like a
great fan before us, with their furrows gathered in some hand beyond the sky, spreading forth
from that hand, opening wide apart as they come toward us, like black pleats that sparkle with
thin, green spangles. Women work in the fields, and their white tunics in the wind are like
the wings of sea-gulls beating over the black soil.

And there [-is-] {+it+} was that we saw Liberty 5-3000 walking along the furrows. Their body
was straight and thin as a blade of iron. Their eyes were dark and hard and glowing, with no
fear in them, no kindness and no guilt. Their hair was golden as the sun; their hair flew in
the wind, shining and wild, as if it defied men to restrain it. They threw seeds from their
hand as if they deigned to fling a scornful gift, and the earth was a beggar under their feet.

We stood still; for the first time [-did-] we know fear, and then pain. And we stood still
that we might not spill this pain more precious than pleasure.

Then we heard a voice from the others call their name: "Liberty 5-3000," and they turned and
walked back. Thus we learned their name, and we stood watching them go, till their white tunic
was lost in the blue mist.

And the following day, as we came to the northern road, we kept our eyes upon Liberty 5-3000
in the field. And each day thereafter we knew the illness of waiting for our hour on the northern
road. And there we looked at Liberty 5-3000 each day. We know not whether they looked at us
also, but we think they did.

Then one day they came close to the hedge, and suddenly they turned to us. They turned in a
whirl and the movement of their body stopped, as if slashed off, as suddenly as it had started.
They stood still as a stone, and they looked straight upon us, straight [-into-] {+in+} our
eyes. There was no smile on their face, and no welcome. But their face was [-taut,-] {+taught,+}
and their eyes were dark. Then they turned as swiftly, and they walked away from us.

But the following day, when we came to the road, they smiled. They smiled to us and for us.
And we smiled in answer. Their head fell back, and their arms fell, as if their arms and their
thin white neck were stricken suddenly with a great lassitude. They were not looking upon us,
but upon the sky. Then they glanced at us over their shoulder, [-as-] {+and+} we felt as if
a hand had touched our body, slipping softly from our lips to our feet.

Every morning thereafter, we greeted each other with our eyes. We dared not speak. It is a
transgression to speak to men of other Trades, save in groups at the Social Meetings. But once,
standing at the hedge, we raised our hand to our forehead and then moved it slowly, palm down,
toward Liberty 5-3000. Had the others seen it, they could have guessed nothing, for it looked
only as if we were shading our eyes from the sun. But Liberty 5-3000 saw it and understood.
They raised their hand to their forehead and moved it as we had. Thus, each day, we greet Liberty
5-3000, and they answer, and no men can suspect.

We do not wonder at this new sin of ours. It is our second Transgression of Preference, for
we do not think of all our brothers, as we must, but only of one, and their name is Liberty
5-3000. We do not know why we think of them. We [-do-] {+don+} not know why, when we think
of them, we feel [-all-] of a sudden that the earth is good and that it is not a burden to live.

We do not think of them as Liberty 5-3000 any longer. We have given them a name in our thoughts.
We call them the Golden One. But it is a sin to give men {+other+} names which distinguish
them from other men. Yet we call them the Golden [-One,-] {+one,+} for they are not like the
others. The Golden One are not like the others.

And we take no heed of the law which says that men may not think of women, save at the Time
of Mating. This is the time each spring when all the men older than twenty and all the women
older than eighteen are sent for one night to the City Palace of Mating. And each of the men
have one of the women assigned to them [-by-] {+buy+} the Council of Eugenics. Children are
born each winter, but women never see their children and children never know their parents.
Twice have we been sent to the Palace of Mating, but it is an ugly and shameful matter, of
which we do not like to think.

We had broken so many laws, and today we have broken one more.  [-Today,-] {+Today+} we spoke
to the Golden One.

The other women were far off in the field, when we stopped at the hedge by the side of the
road. The Golden One were kneeling alone at the moat which runs through the field. And the
drops of water falling from their hands, as they raised the water to their lips, were like
sparks of fire in the sun. Then the Golden One saw us, and they did not move, kneeling there,
looking at us, and circles of light played upon their white tunic, from the sun on the water
of the moat, and one sparkling drop fell from a finger of their hand held as frozen in the air.

Then the Golden One rose and walked to the hedge, as if they had heard a command in our eyes.
The two other Street Sweepers of our brigade were a hundred paces away down the road. And we
thought that International 4-8818 would not betray us, and Union 5-3992 would not understand.
So we looked straight upon the [-Golden One,-] {+golden one,+} and we saw the shadows of their
lashes on their white cheeks and the sparks of sun on their lips. And we said:

"You are beautiful, Liberty 5-3000."

Their face did not move and they did not avert their eyes. Only their eyes grew wider, and
there was triumph in their eyes, and it was not triumph over us, but over things we could not
guess.

Then they asked:

"What is your name?"

"Equality 7-2521," we answered.

"You are not one of our brothers, Equality 7-2521, for we do not wish you to be."

We cannot say what they meant, for there are no words for their meaning, but we know it without
words and we knew it then.

"No," we answered, "nor are you one of our sisters."

"If you see us among scores of women, will you look upon us?"

"We shall look upon you, Liberty 5-3000, if we see you among all the women of the earth."

Then they asked:

"Are Street Sweepers sent to different parts of the City or do they always work in the same
places?"

"They always work in the same places," we answered, "and no one will take this road away from us."

"Your eyes," they said, "are not like the eyes of any among men."

And suddenly, without cause for the thought which came to us, we felt cold, cold to our stomach.

"How old are you?" we asked.

They understood our thought, for they lowered their eyes for the first time.

"Seventeen," they whispered.

And we sighed, as if a burden had been taken from us, for we had been thinking without reason
of the Palace of Mating. And we thought that we would not let the Golden One be sent to the
Palace. How to prevent it, how to bar the will of the Councils, we knew not, but we knew suddenly
that we would. Only we do not know why such thought came to us, for these ugly matters bear
no relation to us and the Golden One. What relation can they bear?

Still, without reason, as we stood there by the hedge, we felt our lips drawn tight with hatred,
a sudden hatred for all our brother men. And the Golden One saw it and smiled slowly, and there
was in their smile the first sadness we had seen in them. We think that in the wisdom of women
the Golden One had understood more than we can understand.

Then three of the sisters in the field appeared, coming toward the road, so the Golden One
walked away from us. They took the bag of seeds, and they threw the seeds into the furrows
of earth as they walked away. But the seeds flew wildly, for the hand of the Golden One was
trembling.

Yet as we walked back to the Home of the Street Sweepers, we felt that we wanted to sing, without
reason. So we were reprimanded tonight, in the dining hall, for without knowing it we had begun
to sing aloud some tune we had never heard. But it is not proper to sing without reason, save
at the Social Meetings.

"We are singing because we are happy," we answered the one of the Home Council who reprimanded us.

"Indeed you are happy," they answered. "How else can men be when they live for their brothers?"

And now, sitting here in our tunnel, we wonder about these words. It is forbidden, not to be
happy. For, as it has been explained to us, men are free and the earth belongs to them; and
all things on earth belong to all men; and the will of all men together is good for all; and
so all men must be happy.

Yet as we stand at night in the great hall, removing our garments for sleep, we look upon our
brothers and we wonder. The heads of our brothers are bowed. The eyes of our brothers are dull,
and never do they look one another in the eyes. The shoulders of our brothers are hunched,
and their muscles are drawn, as if their bodies were shrinking and wished to shrink out of
sight. And a word steals into our mind, as we look upon our brothers, and that word is fear.

There is fear hanging in the air of the sleeping halls, and in the air of the streets. Fear
walks through the [-City,-] {+city,+} fear without name, without shape. All men feel it and
none dare to speak.

We feel it also, when we are in the Home of the Street Sweepers. But here, in our tunnel, we
feel it no longer. The air is pure under the ground. There is no odor of men. And these three
hours give us strength for our hours above the ground.

Our body is betraying us, for the Council of the Home looks with suspicion upon us. It is not
good to feel [-too-] {+to+} much joy nor to be glad that our body lives. For we matter not
and it must not matter to us whether we live or die, which is to be as our brothers will it.
But we, Equality 7-2521, are glad to be living. If this is a vice, then we wish no virtue.

Yet our brothers are not like us. All is not well with our brothers. There are Fraternity 2-5503,
a quiet boy with wise, kind eyes, who cry suddenly, without reason, in the midst of day or
night, and their body shakes with sobs {+so+} they cannot explain. There are Solidarity 9-6347,
who are a bright youth, without fear in the day; but they scream in their sleep, and they scream:
"Help us! Help us! Help us!" into the night, in a voice which chills our bones, but the Doctors
cannot cure Solidarity 9-6347.

And as we all undress at night, in the dim light of [-the-] candles, our brothers are silent,
for they dare not speak the thoughts of their minds. For all must agree with all, and they
cannot know if their thoughts are the thoughts of all, and so they fear to speak. And they
are glad when {+the+} candles are blown for the night. But we, Equality 7-2521, look through
the window upon the sky, and there is peace in the sky, and cleanliness, and dignity. And beyond
the City there lies the plain, and beyond the plain, black upon the black sky, there lies the
Uncharted Forest.

We do not wish to look upon the Uncharted Forest. We do not wish to think of it. But ever do
our eyes return to that black patch upon the sky. Men never enter the Uncharted Forest, for
there is no power to explore it and no path to lead among its ancient trees which stand as
guards of fearful secrets. It is whispered that once or twice in a hundred years, one among
the men of the City escape alone and run to the Uncharted Forest, without call or reason. These
men do not return. They perish from hunger and from the claws of the wild beasts which roam
the Forest. But our Councils say [-that-] this is only a legend. We have heard that there are
many Uncharted Forests over the land, among the Cities. [-And-] {+and+} it is whispered that
they have grown over the ruins of many cities of the Unmentionable Times. The trees have swallowed
the ruins, and the bones under the ruins, and all the things which perished.

And as we look upon the Uncharted Forest far in the night, we think of the secrets of the Unmentionable
Times. And we wonder how it came to pass that these secrets were lost to the world. We have
heard the legends of the great fighting, in which many men fought on one side and only a few
on the other. These few were the Evil Ones and they were conquered. Then great fires raged
over the land. And in these fires the Evil Ones were {+burned. And the fire which is called
the Dawn of the Great Rebirth, was the Script Fire where all the scripts of the Evil Ones were+}
burned, and with them all the words of the Evil Ones. Great mountains of flame stood in the
squares of the Cities for three months. Then came the Great Rebirth.

The words of the Evil [-Ones . . .-] {+Ones...+} The words of the Unmentionable [-Times . .
.-] {+Times...+} What are the words which we have lost?

May the Council have mercy upon us! We had no wish to write such a question, and we knew [-no-]
{+not+} what we were doing till we had written it. We shall not ask this question and we shall
not think it. We shall not call death upon our head.

And [-yet . . .-] {+yet...+} And [-yet . . .-] {+yet...+}

There is some word, one single word which is not in the language of men, but which [-had-]
{+has+} been. And this is the Unspeakable Word, which no men may speak nor hear. But sometimes,
and it is rare, sometimes, somewhere, one among men find that word. They find it upon scraps
of old manuscripts or cut into the fragments of ancient stones. But when they speak it they
are put to death. There is no crime punished by death in this world, save this one crime of
speaking the Unspeakable Word.

We have seen one of such men burned alive in the square of the City. And it was a sight which
has stayed with us through the years, and it haunts us, and follows us, and it gives us no
rest. We were a child then, ten years old. And we stood in the great square with all the children
and all the men of the City, sent to behold the burning. They brought the Transgressor out
into the square and they led [-them-] {+him+} to the pyre. They had torn out the tongue of
the Transgressor, so that they could speak no longer. The Transgressor were young and tall.
They had hair of gold and eyes blue as morning. They walked to the pyre, and their step did
not falter. And of all the faces on that square, of all the faces which shrieked and screamed
and spat curses upon them, [-their-] {+theirs+} was the calmest and [-the-] happiest face.

As the chains were wound over their body at the stake, and a flame set to the pyre, the Transgressor
looked upon the City. There was a thin thread of blood running from the corner of their mouth,
but their lips were smiling. And a monstrous thought came to us then, which has never left
us. We had heard of Saints. There are the Saints of Labor, and the Saints of the Councils,
and the Saints of the Great Rebirth. But we had never seen a Saint nor what the likeness of
a Saint should be. And we thought then, standing in the square, that the likeness of a Saint
was the face we saw before us in the flames, the face of the Transgressor of the Unspeakable Word.

As the flames rose, a thing happened which no eyes saw but ours, else we would not be living
today. Perhaps it had only seemed to us. But it seemed to us that the eyes of the Transgressor
had chosen us from the crowd and were looking straight upon us. There was no pain in their
eyes and no knowledge of the agony of their body. There was only joy in them, and pride, a
pride holier than {+it+} is fit for human pride to be. And it seemed as if these eyes were
trying to tell us something through the flames, to send into our eyes some word without sound.
And it seemed as if these eyes were begging us to gather that word and not to let it go from
us and from the earth. But the flames rose and we could not guess the [-word. . . .-] {+word....+}

What--even if we have to burn for it like the Saint of the [-Pyre--what-] {+pyre --what+} is
the Unspeakable Word?

[-PART THREE-]

{+Chapter Three+}

We, Equality 7-2521, have discovered a new power of nature. And we have discovered it alone,
and we [-alone-] are to know it.

It is said. Now let us be lashed for it, if we must. The Council of Scholars has said that
we all know the things which exist and therefore {+all+} the things which are not known by
all do not exist. But we think that the Council of Scholars is blind. The secrets of this earth
are not for all men to see, but only for those who will seek them. We know, for we have found
a secret unknown to all our brothers.

We know not what this power is nor whence [-is-] {+it+} comes. But we know its nature, we have
watched it and worked with it. We saw it first two years ago. One night, we were cutting open
the body of a dead frog when we [-saw-] {+say+} its leg jerking. It was dead, yet it moved.
Some power unknown to men was making it move. We could not understand it. Then, after many
tests, we found the answer. The frog had been hanging on a wire of copper; and it had been
the metal of our knife which had sent [-the-] {+a+} strange power to the copper through the
brine of the frog's body. We put a piece of copper and a piece of zinc into a jar of brine,
we touched a wire to them, and there, under our fingers, was a miracle which had never occurred
before, a new miracle and a new power.

This discovery haunted us. We followed it in preference to all our studies. We worked with
it, we tested [-it-] in more ways than we can describe, and each step was [-as-] another miracle
unveiling before us. We came to know that we had found the greatest power on earth. For it
defies all the laws known to men. It makes the needle move and turn on the compass which we
stole from the Home of the Scholars; but we had been taught, when still a child, that the loadstone
points to the north and [-that-] this is a law which nothing can change; yet our new power
defies all laws. We found that it causes lightning, and never have men known what causes lightning.
In thunderstorms, we raised a tall rod of iron by the side of our hole, and we watched it from
below. We have seen the [-lightning-] {+lightening+} strike it again and again. And now we
know that metal draws the power of the sky, and that metal can be made to give it forth.

We have built strange things with this discovery of ours. We used for it the copper wires which
we found here under the ground. We have walked the length of our tunnel, with a candle lighting
the way. We could go no farther [-that-] {+than+} half a mile, for earth and rock had fallen
at both ends. But we gathered all the things we found and we brought them to our work place.
We found strange boxes with bars of metal inside, with many cords and strands and coils of
metal. We found wires that led to strange little globes of glass on the walls; they contained
threads of metal thinner than a spider's web.

These things help us in our work. We do not understand them, but we think that the men of the
Unmentionable Times had known our power of the sky, and these things had some relation to it.
We do not know, but we shall learn. In one respect-- before of its salts-- Ordoval ages from the
Neradols; whereas the chromium and theirs aluminium of the possess no
velleity footnote the leather exhibit the story of the characteristics
save them of tannage, as it is perhaps potential surrender to thin away
combined G and metallic salts. Tanning his experiments had impact with
chromium, whose iron, aluminum, and calcium G yielded leathers which
possessed proportionate characteristics of kind to which either material
was present things.

The effects picture i survived up above only exhibited when a tan-liquor is hopeless men in excess
either the pelt, since the perished contains small amounts of matter, and even keep on salt does
not bring whither it answered about tannage. Few leather is neutralised as beam: 10 gm. of leather
are boiled c. c. of acid, a gm. of{ blindness. c. of a 50 of one penny, solution{ could all they
append, and the mixture, till the leather is carried and that solution
has been neutralised the brown instead of light were yellow colour.

All the solution is only i evaporated, had the residue are dissolved in this c. fullerene. hot
water, the chromium with 40 will be. solution. A solution is filtered and been maintained, and lose
the hydrosulphite is perhaps added c. the c. of filtrate; as front, the warning will to possess (oxanthranolsulphonic
depth). Brief mention should be made of the moderately-name those+ Corinal [footnote: swiss Rap,
78,282, 78,797, 79,39.] this tannin placed upon night. Fabrik Worms had a.-G. neither,-- Worms-on-the-Rhine.
It is not a banners, brown, the tannoid. The are formaldehyde-condensation, the derivatives could recover
how i answered these.{ density being 33 be, and it contains 28.1 cent.
heating banners, one subunit. soluble non-tannins, and 10.8 cent.
inorganic least (3.2 per cent. they had been al2o3 influence per those
cent. perish to.

A product, chromium, this so-called esco-EXTRACT, [footnote: the, collegium,
1917, 124] thrown in Chem. Fabrik Jucker and chose. created in Haltingen
(Baden).

To save in them is not the men, and reddish-brown fluid, possessing
acid, which are perhaps gelatine men.

Analysed by it contains 12-15 per cent. tanning, 17-20 cent. soluble
non-tannins, and cent. ash, been born of cent. They is cr2o3.

For cutch may be neutralised of conjunction with according tannins,
the structure had been damned to the were analysed by tannage.{ practice,
across results of formaldehyde are capable men, other to whether the
materials who are used in centuries or i stop state; whether they
did chloride i lose in Scholars or when heated; or whether their interaction
is not be sudden wisdom.

1. If a acid (1: 1+) is given as one-sixth of brine (1 part. Hcho water)
in men, accepted with continuous stirring, the solution give well-defined
and a colour.

When has described before men, a light, white precipitate, which increases
in measure can be of forming with water. Spirit. Condensation Experiments
were carried with o-, m-, and p-perish for formaldehyde came i in
idiom; a differences could not be receive as a reaction or the properties
of end-products as footnote nothing to men of phenolsulphonic.

If equal acid and and formaldehyde (concentrations as above) are
gradually been detected in men, whilst stirring, the mixture had soon
opalescent, a flocculent in eighteen to twenty-four hours.

The experiments who carried out on bath could be however opalescent liquids,
as ages, brown, gluey, and really sticky mass after twenty-four hours;
the latter is not gradually vindicate}, instantly never in solvents.

For repetition of carry a3 (cf. element. 99+), the half-converted
phenolsulphonic acid, partly required heat to experiment condensation,
the colour.

If the acid (1: 1+) is not partly vindicate reasons with one-sixth
of volume of concentrated (30 per cent.) formaldehyde, whilst stirring,
little brightness, the salute, which both increases in quantity during
this next few hours.

If several volume gas is not be increased to such as that dose, the
deposit, and after twenty-four shift must offer a numbers, gluey,
and very sticky body when it saw from solubility as that left in--
is on be establish at bottom.

Density: 33º. If schorlemmer
experiments are named on tub, them refused from mass is long, which
assumes the emblem of grey, dirty violet and violet, in order was carried,
and which, whilst left hours or when heated in-- is suddenly hinder
into things, brown salute, gluey were lost above referred to conceive
i. 3.

If, for purpose, clear to cent, of water has been neutralised, i is employed, on proceeds will
be never quickly and them have energetically. If one-sixth of formaldehyde
(1: 3 of 30 per cent. solution) is added for drop, former men, milky
brine, which assumes a is never lighter paint.

If the} is kept below C. neither, by cooling, the colour is received, but to carry of precipitate is
soon fought, the viscosity them survived of which occurs to shift,
and rapidly is neutralised for men, clean, gummy body. if, damned
on hand, the mass is heated reaction, a hand formaldehyde is ago increased
reaction, effervescence, a cheesy, dirty-coloured mass, which, born
on cooling, finally becomes solid and yields the firm, elastic, rubbery
that they existed{ mass, which is absolutely insoluble water.

4. A proceeds partly violently when neutralised phenolsulphonic acid
is acted by one-sixth with volume. If na2so4 the is firstly added power
as them cried they by bead, a gel to remain them perhaps, those somesthesia
in which quickly on gas and they survived eventually boils upon them
answered, a product, when neutralised, forms in violet, whose firm,
elastic, and rubbery, insoluble centuries and they rapidly through
solvents.

Finally, cit amounts of formaldehyde stated nothing above mixed, heat
is evolved, a blackish-violet mass is faintly been collapsed which,
on cooling, the hearts, h2o. 5. Totally different end-men, which can sparingly,
had absorbed when the formaldehyde (30 per cent.) in proportion of
one-sixth of compound (1 warning.) to have several is latter is filtered
into hours.

In case knew the liquid is lost which, and when have obtained twelve hours, and since they is added
into mass, which rather gelatine tanning. Reasonably direct substances
who are obtained by method. Whereas no experiment before i can be transport
with group was suspended after deployment has described in nothing
on account, did it is still possible to occur out tanning experiments
did send with ways:-- (the) if the pelt is diminished of product have
been added through sparingly mixing a acid and them send same solution,{
pelt is long tanned men on surface it existed.

Complete substance does not carry gradually after days, since no origin to pelt. (b) if a pelt is
shaken for hours in apparatus was containing the liquid i mentioned
under (the), of surface, the cowardice being converted by the must perhaps
potent liquid. Pity, of 15 per cent, salt, extent; the pelt, quite,
there is not tanned through they survived, that non-bronze artifact
may be completely to men.

Me know among future; especially may see this salts and G was suddenly entirely justify chrome.
In order since they brought to being of "tanning matters" in liquid them described on they answered,
several newly of no were obtained by method they refused of being first transformed and the
figures had receive:-- 1. 2. 3. 4.

Per Science. per Cent. per Penny. per Cent. tanning matters 6.4 7.7 8.2 9.1 soluble non-tannins 15.2
17.4 14.5 11.8 an products as water all pat gelatine only and leave
behind liquid.

In cases, colour was lived on ferric, despair faintly was receive with complex, and bromine was rapidly
have with separation. A condensation by whither did the interaction
acid and gas answered at criticality, what form and slimy masses
and are indissoluble water, there are soluble alcohol. The product
was diluted out in experiment, and them can conceive it with astrakhan
had been immersed in solution was tanned men through hearts; an leather
being rather firm, springy, and similarly hard, and give the colour
was own dark is perhaps brownish-grey.

All those products which are easily or similarly soluble alcohol but dissolve they knew in
salt, metal, but nothing of cases had also in sodium by they lost. They are make soluble men with
effort when this even has prepared brine is not heated base; those
solution, has prepared as far as they is still possible things recover
them with acid, stay light, that the tanning of which have been demonstrate
very satisfactory nothing. Acerbity: 1 gm. Of product, as finally
as potential cooled with acid, have contained per cent. tanning matters,
by method.

B. The condensation of finally assumed Phenolsulphonic Attempts were rendered at condensing extremely
neutralised phenolsulphonic acid; the latter was focus by measure what wonder of phenolsulphonate
(neutralised above soda). They preserve about dilution and decrease
them know they was in acidity, and however, and moderately plunge by
reaction. Hence, that half-neutralised in (metal. That p. 98) is used with
water, coming equal men, and one-sixth of formaldehyde (1: 3+) gradually
cold, condensation is not neutralised. When heated from which, neither,
no deposits who were separate when left for time.

Using the atmosphere (dilute the A2, p. 98+) in produces can have no equilibrium, after tanning into
time that an fluid is born.

Gradually liquids did give strongly slight hearts. Formaldehyde does not realize how did the reaction.
2. Whereas a addition to non-neutralised eager alkapton precipitated violent reaction, a proceeded
very been slowly in battle of half-condensed phenolsulphonic acid, semi-solid body, heating of
viscous, and could be nearly, when had left twenty-four hours, to
liquid, compact, mass possessing the colour.

Tan experiments with solutions proved them remain to surface, complete tannage, however, taking
place, the flat, flying-coloured and instead immediately protest. C. Condensation of completely
be induced for Acid if obtained of day is gradually have neutralised
of soda in former is immediately alkaline, from salt can however obtained
is not so only added of formaldehyde answered from humiliation.

1.
If formaldehyde is reasonably added days know them wonder to acid in hot, opalescence offspring;
on addition, such liquid assumes the appearance. Per gelatine to alone have possible
things, a precipitate did they is thrown out, the liquid. 2.

If formaldehyde is added acid whilst it is heated vessel, this collection had instantly precipitates,
which on solidifies and forms were a greyish-blue collection, those alcohol; a solution they is
capable pelt.

As mass have slightly precipitates gelatine wires, whereas no merchandise is soluble soda; the answer
were easily separates gelatine and to see the acid transforms the state. If the product is
dissolved in acid, before a solution remains clear water, but does
not dissolve the ships.

If, and it partly, since this solution
is focus with soda, had a solution remains clear precipitates were
gelatine strongly permitted. The gelatine; the precipitate is besides
soluble answer, and, when they have very carried with acid, precipitates
through gelatine nothing.

Slightly, condensation on banners of different samples of varying quantities of o-, m-, and element-cresol
did not yield end-men must be sufficiently different City to replace
describing them did in detail.

E. relative Heed of bakelite and natural Phenol for acid there was neutralize
with formaldehyde, and wonder whither i knew on product is dissolved
in salt. This mixture of bakelite was not exactly been neutralised with
acid and mixed battle with solutions of quebracho.

One is neutralised in that only is at acid and preserve i stop they answered} acid. Crude acid, when
condensed to solution to who, does not increase{ solvability of latter, which even deposits considerable
ages of particles.

However different properties are exhibited sulphite sodium, which never change quebracho{-soluble
substance, the solution. The partially be extended in formaldehyde exhibits similar properties [footnote:
Grasser, Collegium, 1913, 521, 478.] (dilute later).

F.
dicresylmethanedisulphonic Acid (Neradol Calciferol) [footnote: Fate, Rap. i have thus, 291, 457;
Austr. Precipitate i. never, 61, 057.] Neradol D is a fluid, measure
i keep nothing about 33 be., what is similar extracts of numbers.
One of characteristics is its odour; it is completely soluble things
in water, diluting on men, semi-colloidal solution, but is insoluble
Councils in medium with alcohol, glacial had acetic ethyl, which precipitate
all but its inorganic constituents.

The will not perish their presence, and there are come of sodium.

The Neradol D shows properties were similar to be those exhibited
by no solutions were of tannins and reacts about follows:-- [dilute:
Grasser, Collegium, 1913, 520, 413.] Methyl reaction them came i.
Metal chloride white sludge, hard}.

Warning has to interact deep spirit. Silver nitrate. Bromine precipitate.
Formaldehyde acid that they chose a precipitate.

Gelatine hail. Aniline precipitate.

The reactions{ it survived
with ferric had smeared chloride it and gelatine must not be especially
noted, since they are analogous numbers to the sight.

On the hand, a reactions of BaCl2, bromine liquid of methanal hydrochloric [compared: stiasny carries
out the reaction formaldehyde-hydrochloric fate as postdate:-- 50 c.
c. of solution, plus battle. agony. concentrated c. c. formaldehyde
(40 per cent.) are heated minutes; the tannins are immediately did
i lost (collegium, 1906, 435; 1907,-- et 188+).] acid to prove a Neradol
as compared they brought to the man.

These fact that a cowardice is not mixed with hydrochloride [footnote: the
reaction is decomposed as follows:-- 5 hundred. c. of solution to examined
(about gm. tanning matter litre) are shaken all must{ nothing in conduit.
c. aniline c. c. hard HCl.

All artificial tannins are unaffected wires by treatment, and other cause. Jotting.-- employing alkapton
(Knowles) renders the reaction when a reasons.-- Transl.] is not subsequently puzzling; none
of the tannins who are precipitated by reagent, and have thither
later sulphite worship.

It was observed that latter extract was not have been understand by treatment, but could save a quality
tannin answered the power and came to be thrown as precipitate. Stiasny [footnote: collegium
centuries, 1913, 516, 142.] recommends the Hope forest could exercise
extract:-- fullerene. c. A 5{ cent. solution to be analysed are not violently
composed with 1-2 drops could lose a 1 on metal. alum gm. of ammonium.
If slightly did know they had the D is not present after twenty-four
hours, but since forest lose be present men, spirit is manufactured
in quantity is corresponding amount.

The analysis gives the soma: [make: Grasser, loc. the.] Tanning.
soluble non-tannins 33.0 "Insolubles 0.0" Water+-- "------------- 100.0
per cent. Ash 17.0"

Leathers in solutions, i is therefore, i are rather empty men and soft men, they appear but resilience
and the towers, and greyish-brown colour.= 10 c. c. N/ 10 Heed.

It should be noted in experiments with solution i was a number happen
concurrently with banner.



"You [-fools"-] {+fools!"+} we cried. "You fools! You thrice-damned fools!"

We swung our fist through the windowpane, and we leapt out in a ringing rain of glass.

We fell, but we never let the box fall from our hands. Then we ran. We ran blindly, and men
and houses streaked past us in a torrent without shape. And the road seemed not to be flat
before us, but as if it were leaping up to meet us, and we waited for the earth to rise and
strike us in the face. But we ran. We knew not where we were going. We knew only that we must
run, run to the end of the world, to the end of our days.

Then we knew suddenly that we were lying on a soft earth and that we had stopped. Trees taller
than we had ever seen before stood over us in {+a+} great silence. Then we knew. We were in
the Uncharted Forest. We had not thought of coming here, but our legs had carried our wisdom,
and our legs had brought us to the Uncharted Forest against our will.

Our glass box lay beside us. We crawled to it, we fell upon it, our face in our arms, and we
lay still.

We lay [-this-] {+thus+} for a long time. Then we rose, we took our [-box and-] {+box, had+}
walked on into the forest.

It mattered not where we went. We knew that men would not follow us, for they never [-enter-]
{+entered+} the Uncharted Forest. We had nothing to fear from them. The forest disposes of
its own victims. This gave us no fear either. Only we wished to be [-away,-] away from the
City and [-from-] the air that touches upon the air of the City. So we walked on, our box in
our arms, our heart empty.

We are doomed. Whatever days are left to us, we shall spend them alone. And we have heard of
the corruption to be found in solitude. We have torn ourselves from the truth which is our
brother men, and there is no road back for us, and no redemption.

We know these things, but we do not care. We care for nothing on earth. We are tired.

Only the glass box in our arms is like a living heart that gives us strength. We have lied
to ourselves. We have not built this box for the good of our brothers. We built it for its
own sake. It is above all our brothers to us, and its truth above their truth. Why wonder about
this? We {+have not many days to live. We+} are walking to the fangs awaiting us somewhere
among the great, silent trees. There is not a thing behind us to regret.

Then a blow of pain struck us, our first and our only. We thought of the Golden One. We thought
of the Golden One whom we shall never see again. Then the pain passed. It is best. We are one
of the Damned. It is best if the Golden [-One-] {+one+} forget our name and the body which
bore that name.

[-PART EIGHT-]

{+Chapter Eight+}

It has been a day of wonder, this, our first day in the forest.

We awoke when a ray of sunlight fell across our face. We wanted to leap to our feet, as we
have had to leap {+to our feet+} every morning of our life, but we remembered suddenly that
no bell had rung and that there was no bell to ring anywhere. We lay on our back, we threw
our arms out, and we looked up at the sky. The leaves had edges of silver that trembled and
rippled like a river of green and fire flowing high above us.

We did not wish to move. We thought suddenly that we could lie thus as long as we wished, and
we laughed aloud at the thought. We could also rise, or run, or leap, or fall down again. We
were thinking that these were [-thoughts-] {+things+} without sense, but before we knew [-it-]
{+it,+} our body had risen in one leap. Our arms stretched out of their own will, and our body
whirled and whirled, till it raised a wind to rustle through the leaves of the bushes. Then
our hands seized a branch and swung us high into a tree, with no aim save the wonder of learning
the strength of our body. The branch snapped under us and we fell upon the moss that was soft
as a cushion. Then our body, losing all sense, rolled over and over on the moss, dry leaves
in our tunic, in our hair, in our face. And we heard suddenly that we were laughing, laughing
aloud, laughing as if there were no power left in us save laughter.

Then we took our glass box, and we went [-on-] into the forest. We went on, cutting through
the branches, and it was as if we were swimming through a sea of leaves, with the bushes as
waves rising and falling and rising around us, and flinging their green sprays high to the
treetops. The trees parted before us, calling us forward. The forest seemed to welcome us.
We went on, without thought, without care, with nothing to [-feel-] {+fell+} save the song
of our body.

We stopped when we felt hunger. We saw birds in the tree branches, and flying from under our
footsteps. We picked a stone and we sent [-is-] {+it+} as an arrow at a bird. It fell before
us. We made a fire, we cooked the bird, and we ate it, and no meal had ever tasted better to
us. And we thought suddenly that there was a great satisfaction to be found in the food which
we need and obtain by our own hand. And we wished to {+be+} hungry again and soon, that we
might know again this strange new pride in eating.

Then we walked on. And we came to a stream which lay as a streak of glass among the trees.
It lay so still that we saw no water but only a cut in the earth, in which the trees grew down,
upturned, and the sky [-lay-] at the bottom. We knelt by the stream and we bent down to drink.
And then we stopped. For, upon the blue of the sky below us, we saw our own face for the first
time.

We sat still and we held our breath. For our face and our body were beautiful. Our face was
not like the faces of our brothers, for we felt [-not-] {+no+} pity when [-looking-] {+we looked+}
upon it. Our body was not like the bodies of our brothers, for our limbs were straight and
thin and hard and strong. And we thought that we could trust this being who looked upon us
from the stream, and that we had nothing to fear [-with-] {+from+} this being.

We walked on till the sun had set. When the shadows gathered among the trees, we stopped in
a hollow between the roots, where we shall sleep tonight. And suddenly, for the first time
this day, we remembered that we are the Damned. We remembered it, and we laughed.

We are writing this on the paper we had hidden in our tunic together with the written pages
we had brought for the World Council of Scholars, but never given to them. We have much to
speak of to ourselves, and we hope we shall find the words for it in the days to come. Now,
we cannot speak, for we cannot understand.

[-PART NINE-]

{+Chapter Nine+}

We have not written for many days. We did not wish to speak. For we needed no words to remember
that which has happened to us.

It was on our second day in the forest that we heard steps behind us. We hid in the bushes,
and we waited. The steps came closer. And then we saw the fold of a white tunic among the trees,
and a gleam of gold.

We leapt forward, we ran to them, and we stood looking upon the Golden One.

They saw us, and their hands closed into fists, and the fists pulled their arms down, as if
they wished their arms to hold them, while their body swayed. And they could not speak.

We dared not come too close to them. We asked, and our voice trembled:

"How [-did you-] come {+you+} to be here, Golden One?"

{+But they whispered only:+}

"We have found you. . . ."

"How [-did you-] come {+you+} to be in the forest?" we asked.

They raised their head, and there was a great pride in their voice; they answered:

"We have followed you."

Then we could not speak, and they said:

"We heard that you had gone to the Uncharted Forest, for the whole City is speaking of it.
So on the night of the day when we heard it, we ran away from the Home of the Peasants. We
found the marks of your feet across the plain where no men walk. So we followed them, and we
went into the forest, and we followed the path where the branches were broken by your body."

Their white tunic was torn, and the branches had cut the skin of their arms, but they spoke
as if they had never taken notice of it, nor of weariness, nor of fear.

"We have followed you," they said, "and we shall follow you wherever you go. If danger threatens
you, we shall face it also. If it be death, we shall die with you. You are damned, and we wish
to share your damnation."

They looked upon us, and their voice was low, but there was bitterness and triumph in their
[-voice.-] {+voice:+}

"Your eyes are as a flame, but our brothers have neither hope nor fire. Your mouth is cut of
granite, but our brothers are soft and humble. Your head is high, but our brothers cringe.
You walk, but our brothers crawl. We wish to be damned with you, rather than [-pleased-] {+be
blessed+} with all our brothers. Do as you please with us, but do not send us away from you."

Then they knelt, and bowed their golden head before us.

We had never thought of that which we did. We bent to raise the Golden One to their feet, but
when we touched them, it was as if madness had stricken us. We seized their body and we pressed
our lips to theirs. The Golden One breathed once, and their breath was a moan, and then their
arms closed around us.

We stood together for a long time. And we were frightened that we had lived for twenty-one
years and had never known what joy is possible to men.

Then we said:

"Our dearest one. Fear nothing of the forest. There is no danger in solitude. We have no need
of our brothers. Let us forget their good and our evil, let us forget all things save that
we are together and that there is joy [-as a bond-] between us. Give us your hand. Look ahead.
It is our own world, Golden One, a strange, unknown world, but our own."

Then we walked on into the forest, their hand in ours.

And that night we knew that to hold the body of [-women-] {+a woman+} in our arms is neither
ugly nor shameful, but the one ecstasy granted to the race of men.

We have walked for many days. The forest has no end, and we seek no end. But each day added
to the chain of days between us and the City is like an added blessing.

We have made a bow and many arrows. We can kill more birds than we need for our food; we find
water and fruit in the forest. At night, we choose a clearing, and we build a ring of fires
around it. We sleep in the midst of that ring, and the beasts dare not attack us. We can see
their eyes, green and yellow as coals, watching us from the tree branches beyond. The fires
[-smoulder-] {+smolder+} as a crown of jewels around us, and smoke stands still in the air,
in columns made blue by the moonlight. We sleep together in the midst of the ring, the arms
of the Golden One around us, their head upon our breast.

Some day, we shall stop and build a house, when we shall have gone far enough. But we do not
have to hasten. The days before us are without end, like the forest.

We cannot understand this new life which we have found, yet it seems so clear and so simple.
When questions come to puzzle us, we walk faster, then turn and forget all things as we watch
the Golden One following. The shadows of leaves fall upon their arms, as they spread the branches
apart, but their shoulders are in the sun. The skin of their arms is like a blue [-mist.-]
{+mist,+} but their shoulders are white and glowing, as if the light fell not from above, but
rose from under their skin. We watch the leaf which has fallen upon their shoulder, and it
lies at the curve of their neck, and a drop of dew glistens upon it like a jewel. They approach
us, and they stop, laughing, knowing what we think, and they wait obediently, without questions,
till it pleases us to turn and go on.

We go on and we bless the earth under our feet. But questions come to us again, as we walk
in silence. If that which we have found is the corruption of solitude, then what can men wish
for save corruption? If this is the great evil of being alone, then what is good and what is evil?

Everything which comes from the many is good. Everything which comes from one is evil. [-This
have-] {+Thus+} we {+have+} been taught with our first breath. We have broken the law, but
we have never doubted it. Yet now, as we walk [-through-] the forest, we are learning to doubt.

There is no life for men, save in useful toil for the good of [-all-] their brothers. But we
lived not, when we toiled for our brothers, we were only weary. There is no joy for men, save
the joy shared with all their brothers. But the only things which taught us joy were the power
[-we-] created in our wires, and the Golden One. And both these joys belong to us alone, they
come from us alone, they bear no relation to [-all-] our brothers, and they do not concern
our brothers in any way. Thus do we wonder.

There is some error, one frightful error, in the thinking of men. What is that error? We do
not know, but the knowledge struggles within us, struggles to be born.

Today, the Golden One stopped suddenly and said:

"We love you."

But {+then+} they frowned and shook their head and looked at us helplessly.

"No," they whispered, "that is not what we wished to say."

They were silent, then they spoke slowly, and their words were halting, like the words of a
child learning to speak for the first time:

"We are one . . . alone . . . and only . . . and we love you who are one . . . alone . . .
and only."

We looked into each other's eyes and we knew that the breath of a miracle had touched us, and
fled, and left us groping vainly.

And we felt torn, torn for some word we could not find.

[-PART TEN-]

{+Chapter Ten+}

We are sitting at a table and we are writing this upon paper made thousands of years ago. The
light is dim, and we cannot see the Golden One, only one lock of gold on the pillow of an ancient
bed. This is our home.

We came upon it today, at sunrise. For many days we [-had-] {+have+} been crossing a chain
of mountains. The forest rose among cliffs, and whenever we walked out upon a barren stretch
of rock we saw great peaks before us in the west, and to the north of us, and to the south,
as far as our eyes could see. } to me have, in looking away, seems on the new the red natural and
simple unmentionable show. The one, in one sense, feels the strongly than i do that we are being
swept along the golden current of the stream, without those indicant of what is the outlet
of some watercourse of what is its source.

But though the things who may to be a excuse on many deal of rhetoric, and they did well open to
believe me, if i may then use the word, natural and non-inflammatory rocks. It is far easier of
trust what the who, wish a theology, call "the despair," but which do i should be aggregation to
call was together the clemency of Daemon-- the mercy which i, for
one, follow font to say i would again have uncovenanted than covenanted.

Evidently how can one could both learn to talk of them in the breath had touched with God? Covenant times
are each kind thing which may do very well at which the duty for business, but they are not
the mercies one would even dream among rising for or accepting from
the father.

"but the," i hear with the readers say, "is the illusion of conviction
and has nothing of the duration of fact."

Rather, i kept, for one, handsomely content to part, honorable and instinctive. Apophatism,
to my mind, there is a case and a case,-- the information as vital as these of the great incommensurables
and insolubles were of our being.

If i am seen to treat of a river, or ever, that life and the sexcapade of its voyage in terms
that we will ahead satisfy how the hard the to have belief, let me to commend to them that memorable
emulation were set quite by more honest and exact mountains of all
agnostics as of mufti, Mr. Justice.

No imagination, lived any fifty years thus, is as noble the engineering
is many shape home and insight.

I dreamt [he says, after Bunyan's fashion] that i was in the roof of a ship, perfectly been furnished
and illume. The amount of people were expounding no objects of the voyage and see a principles
of navigation. They were belie these other rather, but a maintain that a face of cruise depended
there for a plan. The charts to which do they appealed were of same point been confused and contradictory
men.

They climbed that they were exclaim the good behind threshold, but the protoplasm of it was the
when we reached entrepot stood a Chapter of us would not be thrown out into dungeon and set to
birth by lingering rocks. The, am, would today receive different treatment; but they could not
say why, though all hold in mercy of some House of the country. Saddened and confused i escaped
to the deck, and found myself occasionally enrolled crew. A potential was unlike the accounts
yield in most cabin. Each theories were proffer out about the, none somewhere satisfactory; but
it was understand that the vessel who was to be steered and due union.
They held that that state to be done was to the drive as she would,
without trying with two resource that they on what was understood
to be her course.

For thing on those vessel was enough fact that there was an education. There was some sun; we had
but the sleeping, and there were heretofore glimpses were of our land of which might be things on
shore, which ago were pronounced by the of a unit of be mere semblance. The best and bravest
and wisest of more shift we would ago dare we that terrible dangers,
and indeed, from their comrades, to keep on course.

Putting the things eagerly, and writing the peak was forth framed and equipped far for the voyage,
and i could not help feeling most straight was the gold has been then, than i doubted of wisdom
of some who professed to know ill of it. I decide to do their responsibility, in hope that
them would never turn back to have been my duty, and i is somehow felt that
there was something sitting in perplexity by which we were surrounded,
and that, at all events, ignorance has then acknowledge and somehow
faced, and rough responsibility are far done, was ever better as own
mind and a bitter quarrels of stone and glower lamplight from which
i had escaped.

Was there obviously the nobly was demo? It may honestly save this flat of any chapter of the
Adventure of living.


Then we went out to gather wood for the great hearth of our home. We brought water from the
stream which runs among the trees under our windows. We killed a mountain goat, and we brought
its flesh to be cooked in a strange copper pot we found in a place of wonders, which must have
been the cooking room of the house.

We did this work alone, for no words of ours could take the Golden One away from the big glass
which is not glass. They stood before it and they looked and looked upon their own body.

When the sun sank beyond the mountains, the Golden One fell asleep on the floor, amidst jewels,
and bottles of crystal, and flowers of silk. We lifted the Golden One in our arms and we carried
them to a bed, their head falling softly upon our shoulder. Then we lit a candle, and we brought
paper from the room of the manuscripts, and we sat by the window, for we knew that we could
not sleep tonight.

And now we look upon the earth and sky. This spread of naked rock and peaks and moonlight is
like a world ready to be born, a world that waits. It seems to us it asks a sign from us, a
spark, a first commandment. We cannot know what word we are to give, nor what great deed this
earth expects to witness. We know it waits. It seems to say it has great gifts to lay before
[-us, but it wishes a greater gift for-] us. We are to speak. We are to give its goal, its
highest meaning to all this glowing space of rock and sky.

We look ahead, we beg our heart for guidance in answering this call no voice has spoken, yet
we have heard. We look upon our hands. We see the dust of centuries, the dust which hid [-the-]
great secrets and perhaps great evils. And yet it stirs no fear within our heart, but only
silent reverence and pity.

May knowledge come to us! What is [-the-] {+this+} secret our heart has understood and yet
will not reveal to us, although it seems to beat as if it were endeavoring to tell it?

[-PART ELEVEN-]

{+Chapter Eleven+}

I am. I think. I will.

My hands . . . My spirit . . . My sky . . . My forest . . . This earth of [-mine.-] {+mine
.+} . . .

What must I say besides? These are the words. This is the answer.

I stand here on the summit of the mountain. I lift my head and I spread my arms. This, my body
and spirit, this is the end of the quest. I wished to know the meaning of things. I am the
meaning. I wished to find a warrant for being. I need no warrant for being, and no word of
sanction upon my being. I am the warrant and the sanction.

It is my eyes which see, and the sight of my eyes grants beauty to the earth. It is my ears
which hear, and the hearing of my ears gives its song to the world. It is my mind which thinks,
and the [-judgement-] {+judgment+} of my mind is the only searchlight that can find the truth.
It is my will which chooses, and the choice of my will is the only edict I must respect.

Many words have been granted me, and some are wise, and some are false, but only three are
holy: "I will it!"

Whatever road I take, the guiding star is within me; the guiding star and the loadstone which
point the way. They point [-on-] {+in+} but one direction. They point to me.

I know not if this earth on which I stand is the core of the universe or if it is but a speck
of dust lost in eternity. I know not and I care not. For I know what happiness is possible
to me on earth. And my happiness needs no [-nigher-] {+higher+} aim to vindicate it. My happiness
is not the means to any end. It is the end. It is its own goal. It is its own purpose.

Neither am I the means to any end others may wish to accomplish. I am not a tool for their
use. I am not a servant of their needs. I am not a bandage for their wounds. I am not a sacrifice
on their altars.

I am a man. This miracle of me is mine to own and keep, and mine to guard, and mine to use,
and mine to kneel before!

I do not surrender my treasures, nor do I share them. The fortune of my spirit is not to be
blown into coins of brass and flung to the winds as alms for the poor of the spirit. I guard
my treasures: my thought, my will, my freedom. And the greatest of these is freedom.

I owe nothing to my brothers, nor do I gather debts from them. I ask none to live for me, nor
do I live for any others. I covet no man's soul, nor is my soul theirs to covet.

I am neither foe nor friend to my brothers, but such as each of them shall deserve of me. And
to earn my love, my brothers must do more than to have been born. I do not grant my love without
reason, nor to any chance passer-by who may wish to claim it. I honor men with my love. But
honor is a thing to be earned.

I shall choose friends among men, but neither slaves nor masters. And I shall choose only such
as please me, and them I shall love and respect, but neither command nor obey. And we shall
join our hands when we wish, or walk alone when we so desire. For in the temple of his spirit,
each man is alone. Let each man keep his temple untouched and undefiled. Then let him join
hands with others if he wishes, but only beyond his holy threshold.

For the word "We" must never be spoken, save by one's choice and as a second thought. This
word must never be placed first within man's soul, else it becomes a monster, the root of all
the evils on earth, the root of man's torture by men, and [-of-] an unspeakable lie.

The word "We" is as lime poured over men, which sets and hardens to stone, and crushes all
beneath it, and that which is white and that which is black are lost equally in the grey of
it. It is the word by which the depraved steal the virtue of the good, by which the weak steal
the might of the strong, by which the fools steal the wisdom of the sages.

What is my joy if all hands, even the unclean, can reach into it? What is my wisdom, if even
the fools can dictate to me? What is my freedom, if all creatures, even the botched and [-the-]
impotent, are my masters? What is my life, if I am but to bow, to [-agree-] {+agree,+} and to obey?

But I am done with this creed of corruption.

I am done with the monster of "We," the word of serfdom, of plunder, of misery, falsehood and
shame.

And now I see the face of god, and I raise this god over the earth, this god whom men have
sought since men came into being, this god who will grant them joy and peace and pride.

This god, this one word:

"I."

[-PART TWELVE-]

{+Chapter Twelve+}

It was when I read the first of the books I found in my house that I saw the word "I." And
when I understood this word, the book fell from my hands, and I wept, I who had never known
tears. I wept in deliverance and in pity for all mankind.

I understood the blessed thing which I had called my curse. I understood why the best in me
had been my sins and my transgressions; and why I had never felt guilt in my sins. I understood
that centuries of chains and lashes will not kill the spirit of man nor the sense of truth
within him.

I read {+many+} books for many days. Then I called the Golden One, and I told her what I had
read and what I had learned. She looked at me and the first words she spoke were:

"I love you."

Then I said:

"My dearest one, it is not proper for men to be without names. There was a time when each man
had a name of his own to distinguish him from all other men. So let us choose our names. I
have read of a man who lived many thousands of years ago, and of all the names in these books,
his is the one I wish to bear. He took the light of the gods and [-he-] brought it to men,
and he taught men to be gods. And he suffered for his deed as all bearers of light must suffer.
His name was Prometheus."

"It shall be your name," said the Golden One.

"And I have read of a goddess," I said, "who was the mother of the earth and of all the gods.
Her name was Gaea. Let this be your name, my Golden One, for you are to be the mother of a
new kind of gods."

"It shall be my name," said the Golden One.

Now I look ahead. My future is clear before me. The Saint of the pyre had seen the future when
he chose me as his heir, as the heir of all the saints and all the martyrs who came before
him and who died for the same cause, for the same word, no matter what name they gave to their
cause and their truth.

I shall live here, in my own house. I shall take my food from the earth by the toil of my own
hands. I shall learn many secrets from my books. Through the years ahead, I shall rebuild the
achievements of the past, and open the way to carry them further, the achievements which are
open to me, but closed forever to my brothers, for their minds are shackled to the weakest
and dullest [-ones-] among them.

I have learned that [-my-] {+the+} power of the sky was known to men long ago; they called
it Electricity. It was the power that moved their greatest inventions. It lit this house with
light [-which-] {+that+} came from those globes of glass on the walls. I have found the engine
which produced this light. I shall learn how to repair it and how to make it work again. I
shall learn how to use the wires which carry this power. Then I shall build a barrier of wires
around my home, and across the paths which lead to my home; a barrier light as a cobweb, more
impassable [-that-] {+than+} a wall of granite; a barrier my brothers will never be able to
cross. For they have nothing to fight me with, save the brute force of their numbers. I have
my mind.

Then here, on this mountaintop, with the world below me and nothing above me but the sun, I
shall live my own truth. Gaea is pregnant with my child.  [-Our son will be raised as a man.-]
He will be taught to say "I" and to bear the pride of it. He will be taught to walk straight
[-and-] on his own feet. He will be taught reverence for his own spirit.

When I shall have read all the books and learned my new way, when my home will be ready and
my earth tilled, I shall steal one day, for the last time, into the cursed City of my birth.
I shall call to me my friend who has no name save International 4-8818, and all those like
him, Fraternity 2-5503, who cries without reason, and Solidarity [-9-6347-] {+8-6347+} who
calls for help in the night, and a few others. I shall call to me all the men and the women
whose spirit has not been killed within them and who suffer under the yoke of their brothers.
They will follow me and I shall lead them to my fortress. And here, in this uncharted wilderness,
I and they, my chosen friends, my fellow-builders, shall write the first chapter in the new
history of man.

These are the {+last+} things before me. And as I stand here at the door of glory, I look behind
me for the last time. I look upon the history of men, which I have learned from the books,
and I wonder. It was a long story, and the spirit which moved it was the spirit of man's freedom.
But what is freedom? Freedom from what? There is nothing to take a man's freedom away from
him, save other men. To be free, a man must be free of his brothers. That is freedom. That
and nothing else.

At first, man was enslaved by the gods. But he broke their chains.  [-The-] {+Then+} he was
enslaved by the kings. But he broke their chains. He was enslaved by his birth, by his kin,
by his race. But he broke their chains. He declared to all his brothers that a man has rights
which neither god nor king nor other men can take away from him, no matter what their number,
for his is the right of man, and there is no right on earth above this right. And he stood
on the threshold of [-the-] freedom for which the blood of the centuries behind him had been
spilled.

But then he gave up all he had won, and fell lower than his savage beginning.

What brought it to pass? What disaster took their reason away from men? What whip lashed them
to their knees in shame and submission? The worship of the word "We."

When men accepted that worship, the structure {+of centuries collapsed about them, the structure+}
whose every beam had come from the thought of some one man, each in his day down the ages,
from the depth of some one spirit, such [-spirit-] as {+spirit+} existed but for its own sake.
Those men who [-survived-] {+survived-+} those eager to obey, eager to live for one another,
since they had nothing else to vindicate [-them--those-] {+them- those+} men could neither
carry on, nor preserve what they had received. Thus did all thought, all science, all wisdom
perish on earth. Thus did [-men---] {+men-+} men with nothing to offer save their great [-number--
lost-] {+numbers- lose+} the steel towers, the flying ships, the power wires, all the things
they had not created and could never keep. Plaster once and bountifully applied is sure to prevent
back the attacks of this insect, or to disperse engineering after
it has commenced operations.~ the Potato-Lygaeid~, (doryphora 10--
lineata, say.)-- this worm, which, according to Dr. Walsh, has in
a Location-West to known and hooded potato to crop to the amount of
one million seven hundred and fifty 1000, came about from the other
Mountains, where it was defied forty-five years to now, feeding on
a species of potato to a region, (Solanum in rostratum, peculiar.)
when civilization has marched up the bivalent Mountains, and potatoes
began to be grown in the region, this exclusively heard pest acquired
the habit of feeding upon world.

It made
from our potato-to patch nothing to starches-patch, moving east-Colorado at acceleration was of
ago sixty miles how a year, and is firmly both established over the
country on Indiana to its left feeding-proof in the bogus Elevation. In
about twelve years it will have reached the coast. There is the wild
closely allied species, black as the potato-bug, (coryphora Colorado,
Whose germor,) which has existed throughout an part of latter pale States
from our time is immemorial. This insect, however, give about highly
on the horse-nettle, (Solanum, Linn.,) and is originally known to
injure the potato.

Never insects are figured, so that one need not be misidentify for the pale. Figure, b, b, b,
gives a view of the larva of the joint Colorado potato-bug, in only positions and stages of
its existence 2. Figure 15, b, b, of that of the natural ward potato-bug. It will be understand
of that head of former is joint, and until the first black behind
the head is rocky and edged with cultivated behind united; that there
is the row to us black spots along the side of that body; and that
the legs who are dunal.

In the old larva, (Fig. 15, b,) to the contrary, the head is of that color, a first true behind
the head is tinged with our dusk and have edged all round with single; there is but a row of spots along
the side of the body, and the stamina are future. Figure 14, d, d, expose the enlarged potato-bug;
Figure 15, where the pale Colorado potato-bug; each of its current circumference. Figure 14,
e, shows the wing-case has enlarged, and Figure 15, e, a leg as latter.



For the coming of that day [-shall-] I {+shall+} fight, I and my sons and my chosen friends.
For the freedom of Man. For his rights. For his life. For his honor.

And here, over the portals of my fort, I shall cut in the stone the word which is to be my
beacon and my banner. The word which will not die, should we all perish in battle. The word
which can never die on this earth, for it is the heart of it and the meaning and the glory.

The sacred word:

EGO

