It is my object here to indicate by what means and by what persons the natural development
of the clairvoyant faculty may be achieved. In regard then to the subject, medium or seer,
there are two distinct temperaments in which the faculty is likely to be dominant and capable
of high and rapid development. The first is the nervous temperament, characterized by extreme
activity of body and mind, nervous excitability, dark complexion, prominent features, and wiry
frame. Types of this temperament are to be seen in the descriptions of Dante, Swedenborg, Melancthon,
Edgar A. Poe and others. This type represents the positive seers.

The other temperament is of the passive type and is characterized by a full lymphatic habit,
pale or delicate complexion, blue eyes, straight fine hair, small hands, tapering fingers,
cold and fleshy to the touch; usually a thin or high voice and languid manner.

These two types of seers--of which there are many varieties-- achieve their development by
quite opposite means. The positive seer projects the mental images by a psychic process impossible
of description, but by a certain psychic metabolism by which the apperceptions of the soul
are transformed into mental images of a purely symbolical nature. The psychic process of picture-production
is involuntary and unconscious, but the perception of the mental pictures is a perfectly conscious
process and involves the exercise of an introspective faculty. The passive seer, on the contrary,
is effortless, and receives impressions by reflection, the visions coming imperceptibly and
having a literal interpretation. The vision is not in this case of an allegorical or symbolic
nature, as is the case with the positive seer, but is an actual vision of a fact or event which
has already happened or as it will transpire in the future. Thus the positive vision consists
in the projection of the mind towards the things of the soul-world, while the passive vision
in the result of a propulsion of the soul-world upon the passive sense. Of the two kinds of
vision, the passive is the more serviceable as being the more perspicuous and literal, but
it has the disadvantage of being largely under the control of external influences and consequently
of greater variability than the positive vision. It is, indeed, quite the common experience
that the passive medium requires "conditions" for the proper exercise of the faculty and where
these are lacking no vision can be obtained.

The positive type of seer exercises an introspective vision, searching inwardly towards the
soul-world whence revelation proceeds. The passive seer, on the other hand, remains in a static
condition, open to impressions coming inwards upon the mind's eye, but making no conscious
effort towards inward searching. Those who have experienced both involuntary and voluntary
visions will readily appreciate the difference of attitude, which is difficult to convey to
others in so many words.

Now the exercise of this faculty does not exist apart from some definite use, and it may be
of advantage to consider what that use may be. Primarily, I should be disposed to regard the
mere opening up of a channel of communication between the material and psychic worlds as adequate
reason for the exercise of the faculty. The Gates of Heaven have to be kept open by human endeavour
and the exercise of the spiritual and psychic faculties, otherwise a complete lesion and cutting
off of our source of inspiration would follow. Except we aspire to the higher world that world
will come no nearer to us. Action and reaction are equal and opposite. It was never said that
the door would be opened to others than those who knocked. The law of spiritual compensation
involves the fact that we receive what we ask for. If we get it otherwise, there is no guarantee
of its continuance or that its possession will be a blessing. But if we ask according to our
needs and strive according to our strength there is no law which can prevent a commensurate
response. The ignorance of our asking and the imperfection of our striving will modify the
nature of the response, but they cannot be negative of results. We can trust nature and there
is a spiritual law in the natural world as well as a natural law in the spiritual world, for
they are interdependent.

But even our daily life affords numerous instances wherein the use of the clairvoyant faculty
is attended by beneficial results. How many people there are who have been warned in dreams--
wherein all people are naturally clairvoyant--of some impending danger to themselves or those
around them, must have struck any casual reader of the daily press; for during recent years
much greater interest has been taken in psychological matters and we are continually in hearing
of new facts which give us knowledge of the power of the soul to foresee danger, and to know
what is determined upon the world for the greater ends of human evolution. Some experiences
of this nature will no doubt form a fit subject for a subsequent chapter. The qualifications
which should supplement and sustain the natural aptitude of the seer or seeress demand consideration
in this place, and the following remarks may not be without value in this respect.

Mental stability, self-possession and confidence in one's own soul-faculties must be the firm
rock on which all revelation should rest. The element of doubt either negatives results or
opens the door to the ingress of all manner of deceptive impressions.

Integrity of purpose is imperative. The purer the intention and motive of the seer the more
lucid will be the vision accorded. No reliable vision can be obtained by one whose nature is
not inherently truthful.

Any selfish desire dominating the mind, in regard to any thing or person will distort the vision
and render it misleading, while a persistent self-seeking spirit will effectually shut the
door to all revelation whatsoever.

Therefore above all things it is essential for the investigator of psychic phenomena to have
an unflinching love of truth, to be resigned to the will of Heaven, to accept the revelations
accorded in a spirit of grateful confidence, and to dispel all doubt and controversy by an
appeal to the eyes of one's own immortal soul.

These are qualifications with which the seer or seeress should be invested, and if with these
the quest of the vision is unsuccessful after a period of earnest trial, it must be taken as
sufficient warrant that the faculty of clairvoyance is not in the category of one's individual
powers. Haply the same qualifications brought to bear on some other psychic faculty will result
in a rich recompense.

As for those triflers who at odd moments sit for the production of what they call "phenomena,"
with no other object than the gratification of an inquisitive vanity, I would drive them with
whips from the field of psychical research. They are people whose presence in this area of
serious enquiry does no good either to the cause of truth or the service of the race, and this
loose traffic of sorts in the hope of finding a new sensation would, were it transferred to
another sphere of activity, deservedly receive a very ugly name.

The suggestion that the clairvoyant faculty is latent in all of us has no doubt been responsible
for much misunderstanding, and not a little disappointment; but I doubt if it is so far removed
from the truth as that which makes the possession of the faculty a certain sign of a superior
degree of evolution. Although the faculty of clear vision brings us into more intimate conscious
relations with a new order of existence, where the past and future, the distant and the near,
would seem to be brought into immediate perception, it does not therefore confer upon us a
higher degree of spirituality. It may undoubtedly offer us a truer perspective than that we
may derive from the ordinary circumstance of our lives, and may suggest good grounds for a
more comprehensive ethical system, but it cannot compel one to do the right thing or to lead
the virtuous life. Clairvoyance, indeed, is a faculty which has no direct moral relations.
It is no more the gift or property of the wise or the good man than extraordinary muscular
power is an adjunct of high intelligence. And yet it is a curious fact that in all the sacred
writings of the world there is a suggestion that holy men, or "Men of God," have this and other
transcendent faculties, such as clairaudience and the power of healing. Throughout the Hebrew
Scriptures clairaudience seems to constitute the peculiar authority of the teacher or prophet.
Thus we have expressions such as: "The Word of the Lord came to me saying," etc., and "I heard
a voice which said," etc., which is sometimes but not always associated with direct vision.
But because holy men of old were distinguished by this power of direct vision it is not to
be supposed that all who have it are equally sanctified. By natural gift or by such means we
are here discussing, the faculty may be brought into active function, but we should not lose
sight of the fact that the attainment of righteousness implies that "all these things shall
be added unto you."

I think it right, therefore, to regard the quest of clairvoyance as a legitimate occupation,
providing that it is purposeful and carried out with a right spirit, while not being allowed
to interfere with the proper performance of one's ordinary duties in life. For it is possible
to become over-zealous and even morbid over these mysteries of human life, and to become so
obsessed by the idea of their importance as practically to render oneself unfitted for any
ordinary pursuits, thereby producing an isolation that is in the best sense unprofitable. Moreover,
there are mental dangers as well as spiritual and social to be feared, and it is unfortunately
not uncommon to observe that neuraesthenia, nervous corrosion, and even insanity attends upon
the tireless efforts of the enthusiast in this direction. The trading occurred just beyond some shrubbery, to the back of it. After
this transaction they had instructed Aladdin to take the road into the city so as to move his wares
more to the place that the other merchants and artistan ones traded in their own wares.

So, when Aladdin arrived at his destination, he went to the larger shop that looked to have the
biggest and best construction to it. It was a shopbelonging to one of the materials distributors
and while he was speaking to the seller he asked for a powder that he especially would like.
Well, the seller could see that Aladdin was shabby in appearance and evidentally very poor
and the powder that he was asking for was very expensive. Aladdin in turn could see what
this man was thinking so he produced his bag, which he had carried along the whole time, and
pulled out some gold pieces to flash before the merchants eyes, before he demanded a half dram of the
powder.

So, the seller measured out the powder in the portion that Aladdin had asked for and requested a piece
of his gold for it, one piece. Aladdin handed him the gold.

Now Aladdin decided that he would like something to eat, so he left the city and returned to his
palace. At his palace was a secret door, that he had to reach and wait for each time, but today
it opened for him instantly. In he went and then he hastened up to the Princess whose name was Princess
Bedrulbudur before he said to her, "Beloved, because you do not like
your captors, you will not like following the plan that I am about
to reveal to you, but remember to adjust to the matter at hand, which
is that you will have to tolerate some of the violence or you will
strip the power within. Please, put on your grandest clothes and when
the African Magician arrives, greet him in the friendliet way. You
can be yourself but do not show any signs of argument or partiality.
When you speak let him see that you might try your best to forget
about me. Convince him of you sincerity. Invite him for dinner and
suggest that you sample the very best wine his country has to offer
for the entertainment. This is where you will achieve my goal." If this state followed upon the use of a glass ball
I am sure that the patient must have been naturally clairvoyant, in which case a bowl of water,
a spot upon a wall, a piece of polished brass or copper, or a spot of ink would have been equally
efficacious in inducing the degree of hypnosis required. That glass spheres are equally efficient
as those of crystal is true only in two cases, namely, when clairvoyance is natural, in which
case neither need be used; and when no results are observable after due experiment, from which
we may conclude either that the agent is unsuitable or that the faculty is entirely submerged
in that individual.

In hypnotic clairvoyance the glass ball will be found as useful a "field" as the best rock
crystal. Yet it does not follow that because the crystal is highly odylic and glass altogether
negative the former will induce clairvoyance. My own first experience with the crystal was
entirely disappointing, while very striking results followed immediately upon the use of a
black concave mirror.

The mirror is usually circular in shape and about one-quarter-inch curve to a six-inch diameter.
This gives a long focus, so that the mirror may be hung upon a wall at about two yards distance
from the subject. A greater degree of concavity proportionate to the diameter will produce
a focus which allows the mirror to be held in the hand while resting in the lap.

This disposes to a very easy and passive attitude and helps towards results. The base of the
mirror may be of tin, wood or other material, and it is usually filled with a composition of
a bituminous nature, the glass covering being painted with a preparation of coal-tar on its
nether or convex side. The exact focus and consequent size of the mirror employed as most suitable
to the individual is a matter of experiment. It is also to be observed that the distance of
the mirror, as also the angle of vision, are matters of experiment. Beyond a certain distance
it will be found that the mirror has no "draw" on the subject. If brought closer its pull is
immediately felt.

It is perhaps too early to theorize upon the modus operandi of the "magic mirror," as it has
been called. It appears to induce hypnosis and consequent elevation of nervous activity by
refracting and throwing back the rays of magnetic energy which emanate from the subject.

In the foregoing illustration let A-B be the mirror with F for its focus. Let the subject be
stationed at S. Then the rays directed towards the surface of the mirror will be represented
by RR-RR. These rays impinge upon a diamagnetic surface which is concave. The rays are therefore
bent inwards and thrown back upon the person at S in the form of a cone of energy which has
the effect of producing auto-hypnosis. There are other forms of agency, such as the zinc disc
with the copper centre as used by Braid to induce the hypnotic sleep, but these appear to depend
upon tiring the optic nerves and thus, through their action upon the thalami to produce temporary
inhibition of the whole basilar tract of the brain.

The mesmerist who throws streams of energy upon the patient would appear to be working on the
same principle as that by which the person using the concave mirror induces self-hypnosis.
Possibly the latter method may be found to be conducive to the phenomena arising from auto-suggestion,
while the conditions induced by the action of the hypnotist may be less liable to the effects
of auto-suggestion and more responsive to hypnotic suggestion, i.e. the mental action of the
hypnotist.

These, however, are considerations which need not trouble us overmuch, since by whatever agent
the subject is made clairvoyant, the results are equally curious and informing. Auto-suggestion,
at least, can hardly be regarded in the category of objections, since we cannot auto-suggest
that which does not first of all arise as an image in the mind. It is in the spontaneous and
automatic production of auto-suggested impressions that the phenomena of clairvoyance very
largely consist; only we have to remember that the suggesting self is a more considerable quantity
than the personality to which these suggestions are made, and is in touch with a world immeasurably
greater and in every sense less limited than that to which the person is externally related.
Looked at from whatever point of view we may choose, the phenomena of clairvoyance cannot be
adequately explained without recourse to psychology on the one hand and occultism on the other.
Psychology is needed in order to explain the nature and faculty of the human soul, and occultism
to define for us the nature of that universal mirror in which the whole category of human events,
both past and future, are reflected. Having decided upon a course of experiments with a crystal
or mirror, the best of the kind should be obtained. A black velvet covering should be made
in which to envelop the crystal when not in use. Mirrors are usually made with a suitable lid
or covering. Care should be taken not to scratch the surface, and all cleaning should be done
with a dry silk handkerchief kept for the purpose. Exposure to the sun's rays not only scores
the surface of a crystal or mirror, but also puts the odylic substance into activity, distributing
and dissipating the magnetic power stored up therein.

And now a word or two about the disposition and attitude of the subject. The visions do not
occur in the crystal itself. They may appear to do so, but this is due, when it occurs, to
the projection and visualization of the mental images. The visions are in the mind or soul
of the seer and nowhere else. It is a matter of constitutional psychism as to where the sense
of clear vision will be located. Personally I find the sense to be located in the frontal coronal
region of the brain about 150 to the right of the normal axis of vision, which may be regarded
as the meridian of sight. Other instances are before me in which the sense is variously located
in the back of the head, the nape of the neck, the pit of the stomach, the summit of the head,
above and between the eyes, and in one case near the right shoulder but beyond the periphery
of the body. The explanation appears to be that the nervo-vital emanations from the body of
the seer act upon the static odyle in the agent, which in turn reacts upon the brain centres
by means of the optic nerves. And this appears to be sufficient reason why the crystal or mirror
should be kept as free as possible from disturbing elements. Water is extremely odylic and
should never come in contact with the agent employed as it effectually carries off all latent
or stored imports. I am forced to use a crude terminology in order to convey the idea in my
mind, but I recognize that the whole explanation may appear vague and inadequate. It is of
course at all times easier to observe effects than to offer a clear explanation of them. Yet
some sort of working hypothesis is constructed when we collate our observations, and it is
this that I have sought to communicate.

For similar reasons, when in use the crystal or mirror should be shaded and so placed that
no direct rays from sun or artificial light may fall upon it. The odyle, as Reichenbach so
conclusively proved by his experiments, rapidly responds to surrounding magnetic conditions
and to the vibrations of surrounding bodies, and to none more rapidly than the etheric vibrations
caused by combustion or light of any kind. There should be no direct rays of light between
the agent and the seer.

The room in which the sitting takes place should be moderately warm, shady, and lit by a diffused
light, such as may be obtained by a light holland blind or casement cloth, in the daytime.
The subject should sit with his back to the source of light, and the illumination will be adequate
if ordinary print can be read by it.

It is important that all persons sitting in the same room with the seer should be at least
at arm's length from him.

Silence should be uniformly observed by those present, until the vision is attained.

It will then be found convenient to have two persons present to act as Interrogator and Recorder
respectively.

The Interrogator should be the only person whose voice is heard, and it should be reduced to
a soft but distinct monotone. The Recorder will be occupied in setting down in writing all
questions asked by the Interrogator and the exact answers made by the seer. These should be
dated and signed by those present when completed. It is perhaps hardly necessary to remark
that precautions should be taken to prevent sudden intrusions, and as far as possible to secure
general quiet without.

I may here interject an observation which appears to me suggestive and may prove valuable.
It has been observed that the inhabitants of basaltic localities are more generally natural
clairvoyants than others. Basalt is an igneous rock composed largely of augite and felspar,
which are silicate crystals of calcium, potassium, alumina, etc., of which the Moonstone is
a variety. The connecting link is that clairvoyance is found to be unusually active during
and by means of moonlight. What psycho-physical effect either basalt or moonlight has upon
the nervous system of impressible subjects appears to be somewhat obscure, but there is little
difference between calcium light and moonlight, except that the latter is moderated by the
greater atmosphere through which it comes to us. It is only when we come to know the psychological
values of various chemical bodies that we can hope for a solution of many strange phenomena
connected with the clairvoyant faculty. I recollect that the seeress of Prevorst experienced
positive pain from the near presence of water during her abnormal phases. Reichenbach found
certain psycho-pathological conditions to be excited by various metals and foreign bodies when
brought into contact with the sensitive. These observations are extremely useful if only in
producing an awareness of possible reasons for such disturbance as may occur in the conditions
already cited. Alaeddin didn't appreciate
the value of these fruits, which were oddly shaped and didn't look like anything he'd ever seen.
He would have preferred figs, grapes, or other fruits common to China.
 Habits of
life and mind are thus formed so that in time they become quite involuntary and automatic.
A cumulative effect is obtained by attention to this matter of periodicity, while the use of
the same place for the same purpose tends to dispose the mind to the performance of particular
functions. In striving for psychic development of any sort we shall do well not to disregard
these facts. For since all actions tend to repeat themselves and to become automatic, to pass
from the domain of the purposive into the habitual, the psychic faculties will similarly, if
actuated at any set time and place, tend to bestir themselves to the same effects as those
to which they were first moved by the conscious will and intention of the seer. Until the clairvoyant
faculty is fully assured and satisfactory results obtained without any inconvenience to the
seer, not more than two persons should be present at the sittings. These should be in close
sympathy with the seer and with each other.

