"`And to see it reflected in eyes that I love.'"

Darsie paraphrased a line of the sweet old ballad, singing it in a clear, bell-like voice to
a pantomime of clasped hands and rolling eyes. "It would be bad enough in an ordinary year,
but to rend us apart from the Vernons--oh, no, it's unthinkable!"

"You have the Vernons near you all the year, dear.  Aunt Maria only asks for eight weeks. 
There are occasions in life when it does not do to think only of our own pleasure."

Silence.  A note in the mother's voice had startled her hearers into the conviction that the
invitation must be regarded seriously, and not tossed aside as a joke.  A lacerating suspicion
that the authorities were in favour of an acceptance pierced like a dart.

"Mother!  What do you mean?  You couldn't possibly be so cruel--"

"Mother, you don't mean--."

"Mother, what do you mean?"

"I mean that you ought to go, dears, which ever one of you is asked. Aunt Maria is an old lady,
and she is lonely.  Her doctor has ordered cheerful companionship.  Moreover, she has been
a kind friend to father in the past, and has a right to expect some consideration in return.
If you went in the right spirit, you could be of real use and comfort, and would have the satisfaction
of doing a kind deed."

Darsie set her lips in a straight line, and tilted her chin in the air.

"Couldn't pretend to go in the right spirit!  I'd be in a tearing rage. Somebody else can have
the `satisfaction,' and I'll go to the sea."

"Darsie, dear, that's naughty!"

"I feel naughty, mother.  `Naughty' is a mild word.  Savage!  I feel savage.  It's too appalling.
What does father say?  I'm sure he would never--"

"Father feels as I do; very disappointed for our own sakes and for yours that our happy party
should be disturbed, but he never shirks a disagreeable duty himself, and he expects his children
to follow his example."

Lavender instantly burst into tears.

"It's always the way--always the way!  It was too good to be true.  We might have known that
it was.  She'll choose me, and Hannah will go without me.  We'd planned every day--fishing,
and bathing, and making hay, and I shall be mewed up in a close carriage, and have meals of
nuts--and n-n-nobody to talk to.  Oh, I can't--I can't bear it!  I wish I could die and be
buried--I cannot bear it--"

"You won't have to bear it.  She'll choose me.  I'm the eldest, and the most of a companion."
Clemence spoke with the calmness of despair, her plump cheeks whitening visibly, her pale eyes
showing a flush of red around the lids. The essence of life is its continuously changing character;
but our concepts are all discontinuous and fixed, and the mode of making them co-occur with
life by arbitrarily supposing positions of arrest have therein. With
such arrests our concepts may soon be made congruent.
I shall be a wreck all winter, and have neuralgia till I'm nearly mad."

"Nonsense, darling!  If you are so tired, the rest and quiet of The Towers will be just what
you need; and as we don't know yet which one of you Aunt Maria will wish as a companion, it
is a pity for you all to make yourselves miserable at once.  Why not try to forget, and hope
for the best!  Surely that would be the wiser plan."

The three girls looked at each other in eloquent silence.  Easy to talk. Forget, indeed.  As
if they could!  Mother didn't really believe what she said.  She was making the best of it,
and there were occasions when making the best of it seemed just the most aggravating thing
one could do.

