'We all grow old, you know,' said Maria, endeavouring to smile, but half strangled by a tear,
and looking at that moment as she might have done long ago.  'You find many changes.'

'I hope you find Mr. Pringle pretty well,' said Albinia, thinking this might be a relief, and
accordingly, the kind-hearted captain began, ruefully to describe the sad alterations that
time had wrought.  Then he explained that he had had little correspondence with home, and had
only landed three days since, so that he was ignorant of all Bayford tidings, and began asking
after a multitude of old friends and acquaintance.

The Kendals thought all would go on the better in their absence, and escaped from the record
of deaths and marriages, each observing to the other as they left the house, that there could
be little doubt that nurse's story was true, but both amazed by the effect on Maria, who had
never been seen before to sit so long quiet in her chair. Was his wife alive?  Albinia thought
not, but could not be certain. His presence was evidently happiness to Miss Meadows, but would
this last?  Would this renewal soothe her, or only make her more restless and unhappy?

Albinia found that Sophy's imagination bad been quicker than her own. Lucy had brought home
the great news of the stranger, and she had leapt at once to the conclusion that it must be
the hero of nurse's story, but she had had the resolution to keep the secret from her sister,
who was found reproaching her with making mysteries.  When Lucy heard that it was Captain Pringle,
she was quite provoked.

'Only Mr. Pringle's nephew?' she said, disdainfully.  'What was the use of making a fuss? 
I thought it was some one interesting!'

Sophy was able to walk to church in the evening, but was made to go in to rest at the vicarage
before returning home.  While this was being discussed before the porch, Albinia felt a pressure
on her arm, and looking round, saw Maria Meadows.

'Can you spare me a few moments?' she said; and Albinia turned aside with her to the flagged
terrace path between the churchyard and vicarage garden, in the light of a half-moon.

'You were so kind this morning,' began Maria, 'that I thought--you see it is very awkward--not
that I have any idea--but if you would speak to Edmund--I know he is not in the habit--morning
visits and--'

'Do you wish him to call?  He had been thinking of it.'

Maria would have been unbounded in her gratitude, but catching herself up, she disclaimed all
personal interest--only she said Edmund knew nothing of anything that had passed--if he did,
he would see they would feel--

'I think,' said Albinia, kindly, 'that we do know that you had some troubles on that score.
Old nurse said something to Sophy, but no other creature knows it.'

'Ah!' exclaimed Maria, 'that is what comes of trusting any one.  I was so ill when I found
out how it had been, that I could not keep it from nurse, but from mamma I did--my poor father
being just gone and all--I could not have had her know how much I felt it--the discovery I
mean--and it is what I wish her never to do.  But oh! Mrs. Kendal, think what it was to find
out that when I had been thinking he had been only trifling with me all those years, to find
that he had been so unkindly treated.  There was his own dear letter to me never unsealed;
and there was another to my father saying in a proud-spirited way that he did not know what
he had done to be so served, and he wished I might find happiness, for I would never find one
that loved me as well.  I who had turned against him in my heart!'

'It was cruel indeed!  And you kept it from your mother!' said Albinia, beginning to honour her.

'My poor father was just gone, you know, and I could not be grieving her with what was passed
and over, and letting her know that my father had broken my heart, as indeed I think he did,
though he meant it all for the best.  But oh! I thought it hard when Lucy had married the handsomest
man in the country, and gone out to India, without a word against it, that I might not please
myself, because I was papa's favourite.'

'It was very hard not to be made aware of his intentions.'

'Yea,' said Maria; 'for it gave me such a bitter, restless feeling against him--though I ought
to have known him better than to think he would give one minute's pain he could help; and then
when I knew the truth, the bitterness all went to poor papa's memory, and yet perhaps he never
meant to be unkind either.'

Albinia said some kind words, and Maria went on:

'But what I wanted to say was this--Please don't let mamma suspect one bit about it; and next,
if Edmund would not mind showing him a little attention.  Do you think he would, my dear? 
I do so wish that he should not think we were hurt by his marriage, and you see, two lone women
can do nothing to make it agreeable; besides that, it would not be proper.'

'Is his wife living?'

'My dear, I could not make up my tongue to ask--the poor dear boy there and all--but it is
all the same.  I hope she is, for I would not see him unhappy, and you don't imagine I have
any folly in my head--oh, no! for I know what a fright the fret and the wear of this have made
me; and besides, I never could leave mamma.  So I trust his wife is living to make him happy,
and I shall be more at peace now I have seen him again, since he turned his horse at Bobble's
Leigh, and said I should soon hear from him again.'

'Indeed I think you will be happier.  There is something very soothing in taking up old feelings
and laying them to rest.  I hope even now there is less pain than pleasure.'

'I can't help it,' said Maria.  'I do hope it is not wrong; but his very voice has got the
old tone in it, as if it were the old lullaby that my poor heart has been beating for all these
years.'

Who would have thought of Maria speaking poetically?  But her words did indeed seem to be the
truth.  In spite of the embarrassment of her situation and the flutter of her feelings, she
was in a state of composure unexampled.  Albinia had just gratified her greatly by a few words
on Captain Pringle's evident good-nature, when a tread came behind them.

'Ha! you here?' exclaimed the loud honest voice.

'We were taking a turn in the moonlight,' said Albinia.  'A beautiful night.'

'Beautiful!  Arthur and I have been a bit of the way home with old Goldsmith.  There's an evergreen,
to be sure; and now--are you bound homewards, Maria?'

Maria clung to Albinia's arm.  Perhaps in the days of the last parting, she had been less careful
to be with a chaperon.

'Ah! I forgot,' said the captain; 'your way lies the other side of the hill.  I had very nearly
walked into Willow Lawn this morning, only luckily I bethought me of asking.'

'I hope you will yet walk into Willow Lawn,' said Albinia.

'Ah! thank you; I should like to see the old place.  I dare say it may be transmogrified now,
but I think I could find my way blindfold about the old garden.  I say, Maria, do you remember
that jolly tea-party on the lawn, when the frog made one too many?'

'That I do--' Maria could not utter more, and Albinia said she was afraid he would miss a great
deal.

'I reckoned on that when I came home.  Changes everywhere; but after the one great change,'
he added, mournfully, 'the others tell less. One has the less heart to care for an old tree
or an old path.'

Albinia felt sure he could mean only one great change, but they were now at Mrs. Meadows's
door, and Maria wished them good night, giving a most grateful squeeze of the hand to Mrs. Kendal.

'Where are you bound now?' asked the captain.

'Back to the vicarage, to take up my husband and the girls,' said Albinia, 'but good night.
I am not afraid.'

The captain, however, chose to continue a squire of dames, and walked at her side, presently
giving utterance to a sound of commiseration. 'Ah! well, poor Maria, I never thought to see
her so altered.  Why, she had the prettiest bloom--I dare say you remember--but, I beg your
pardon, somehow I thought you were her elder sister.'

'Mr. Kendal's first wife was,' said Albinia, pitying the poor man; but Captain Pringle was
not a man for awkwardness, and the short whistle with which he received her answer set her
off laughing.

'I beg your pardon,' he said, recovering himself; 'but you see I am all astray, like a man
buried and dug up again, so no wonder I make strange blunders; and my poor uncle is grown so
childish, that he does not know one person from another, and began by telling me Maria Meadows
had married and gone out to India.  I had not had a letter these seven years, so I thought
it was high time to bring my boy home, and renew old times, though how I am ever to go back
without him--'

'Is be your only one?'

'Yes.  I lost his mother when he was six years old, and we have been all the world to each
other since, till I began to think I was spoiling him outright, and it was time he should see
what Old England was made of.'

Albinia had something like a discovery to impart now; but she hated the sense of speculating
on the poor man's intentions.  He talked so much, that he saved her trouble in replying, and
presently resumed the subject of Maria's looks.

'She has had a harassed life, I fear,' said Albinia.

'Eh! old Meadows was a terrible old tyrant, I believe; but she was his pet.  I thought he refused
her nothing--but there's no trusting such a Turk!  Oh! ah! I dare say,' as if replying to something
within.  And then having come to the vicarage wicket, Albinia took leave of him and ran indoors,
answering the astonished queries as to how she had been employed, 'Walking home with Aunt Maria
and Captain Pringle !'

It was rather a relief at such a juncture that Lucy's curious eyes should be removed.  Mr.
Ferrars came to talk his wife's state over with his sister.  Her children were too much for
Winifred, and he wished to borrow Lucy for a few weeks, till a governess could be found for them.

It struck Albinia that this would be an excellent thing for Genevieve Durant, and she at once
contrived to ask her to tea, and privately propound the plan.

Genevieve faltered much of thanks, and said that Madame was very good; but the next morning
a note was brought in, which caused a sudden change of countenance:

'My dear Madame,

'I was so overwhelmed with your kindness last night, and so unwilling to appear ungrateful,
that perhaps I left you under a false impression.  I entreat you not to enter on the subject
with my grandmamma or my aunt.  They would grieve to prevent what they would think for my advantage,
and would, I am but too sure, make any sacrifice on my account; but they are no  longer young,
and though my aunt does not perceive it, I know that the real work of the school depends on
me, and that she could not support the fatigue if left unassisted.  They need their little
Genevieve, likewise, to amuse them in their evenings; and, forgive me, madame, I could not,
without ingratitude, forsake them now.  Thus, though with the utmost sense of your kindness,
I must beg of you to pardon me, and not to think me ungrateful if I decline the situation so
kindly offered to me by Mr. Ferrars, thanking you ten thousand times for your too partial recommendation,
and entreating you to pardon

                         'Your most grateful and humble servant,
                                        GENEVIEVE CELESTE DURANT.'

'There!' said Albinia, tossing the note to her brother, who was the only person present excepting
Gilbert.

'Poor Albinia,' he said, 'it is hard to be disappointed in a bit of patronage.'

'I never meant it as patronage,' said Albinia, slightly hurt.  'I thought it would help you,
and rescue her from that school.  There will she spend the best years of her life in giving
a second-rate education to third-rate girls, not one of whose parents can appreciate her, till
she will grow as wizened and as wooden as Mademoiselle herself.'

'Happily,' said Mr. Ferrars, 'there are worse things than being spent in one's duty.  She may
be doing an important work in her sphere.'

'So does a horse in a mill,' exclaimed Albinia; 'but you would not put a hunter there.  Yes,
yes, I know, education, and these girls wanting right teaching; but she, poor child, has been
but half educated herself, and has not time to improve herself.  If she does good, it is by
force of sheer goodness, for they all look down upon her, as much as vulgarity can upon refinement.'

'I told her so,', exclaimed Gilbert; 'I told her it was the only way to teach them what she
was worth.'

'What did you know of the matter?' asked Albinia; and the colour mounted in the boy's face
as he muttered, 'She was overcome when she came down, she said you had been so kind, and we
were obliged to walk up and down before she could compose herself, for she did not want the
old ladies to know anything about it.'

'And did she not wish to go?'

'No, though I did the best I could.  I told her what a jolly place it was, and that the children
would be a perfect holiday to her.  And I showed her it would not be like going away, for she
might come over here whenever she pleased; and when I have my horse, I would come and bring
her word of the old ladies once a week.'

'Inducements, indeed!' said Mr. Ferrars.  'And she could not be incited by any of these?'

'No,' said Gilbert, 'she would not hear of leaving the old women. She was only afraid it would
vex Mrs. Kendal, and she could not bear not to take the advice of so kind a friend, she said.
You are not going to be angry with her,' he added.

'No,' said Albinia, 'one cannot but honour her motives, though I think she is mistaken; and
I am sorry for her; but she knows better than to be afraid of me.'

With which assurance Gilbert quitted the room, and the next moment, hearing the front door,
she exclaimed, 'I do believe he is gone to tell her how I took the announcement.'

Maurice gave a significant 'Hem!' to which his sister replied, 'Nonsense!'

'Very romantic consolations and confidences.'

'Not at all.  They have been used to each other all their lives, and he used to be the only
person who knew how to behave to her, so no wonder they are great friends.  As to anything
else, she is nineteen, and he not sixteen.'

'One great use of going to school is to save lads from that silly pastime.  I advise you to
look to these moonlight escortings!'

'One would think you were an old dowager, Maurice.  I suppose Colonel Bury may not escort Miss
Mary.'

'Ah, Albinia, you are a very naughty child still.'

'Of course, when you are here to keep me in order, I wish I never were so at other times when
it is not so safe.'

Mr. Kendal was kind and civil to Captain Pringle, and though the boisterous manner seemed to
affect him like a thunderstorm, Maria imagined they were delighted with one another.

Maria was strangely serene and happy; her querulous, nervous manner smoothed away, as if rest
had come to her at last; and even if the renewed intercourse were only to result in a friendship,
there was hope that the troubled spirit had found repose now that misunderstandings were over,
and the sore sense of ill-usage appeased.

Yet Albinia was startled when one day Mr. Kendal summoned her, saying, 'It is all over, she
has refused him!'

'Impossible; she could only have left half her sentence unsaid.'

'Too certain.  She will not leave her mother.'

'Is that all?'

