.  .  .  we do not know what his thoughts were, as the shadows grew deeper about him, as the
sounds of the world, the noises from the sunny street, grew fainter, and the images and sounds
of memory clearer and louder.  Perhaps as he lay there with closed eyes he remembered things
long forgotten, as dying people do; sounds and smells of the Vico Dritto di Ponticelli, and
the feel of the hot paving-stones down which his childish feet used to run to the sea; noises
of the sea also, the drowning swish of waters and sudden roar of breakers sounding to anxiously
strained ears in the still night; bright sunlit pictures of faraway tropical shores, with handsome
olive figures glistening in the sun; the sight of strange faces, the sound of strange speech,
the smell of a strange land; the glitter of gold; the sudden death-shriek breaking the stillness
of some sylvan glade; the sight of blood on the grass .  .  .  The Admiral's face undergoes
a change; there is a stir in the room; some one signs to the priest Gaspar, who brings forth
his sacred wafer and holy oils and administers the last sacraments.  The wrinkled eyelids flutter
open, the sea-worn voice feebly frames the responses; the dying eyes are fixed on the crucifix;
and--"In manus tuas Domine commendo spiritum meum."  The Admiral is dead.

He was in his fifty-sixth year, already an old man in body and mind; and his death went entirely
unmarked except by his immediate circle of friends.  Even Peter Martyr, who was in Valladolid
just before and just after it, and who was writing a series of letters to various correspondents
giving all the news of his day, never thought it worth while to mention that Christopher Columbus
was dead.  His life flickered out in the completest obscurity.  It is not even known where
he was first buried; but probably it was in the Franciscan convent at Valladolid. This, however,
was only a temporary resting-place; and a few years later his body was formally interred in
the choir of the monastery of Las Cuevas at Seville, there to lie for thirty years surrounded
by continual chauntings.  After that it was translated to the cathedral in San Domingo; rested
there for 250 years, and then, on the cession of that part of the island to France, the body
was removed to Cuba.  But the Admiral was by this time nothing but a box of bones and dust,
as also were brother Bartholomew and son Diego, and Diego's son, all collected together in
that place.  There were various examinations of the bone-boxes; one, supposed to be the Admiral's,
was taken to Cuba and solemnly buried there; and lately, after the conquest of the island in
the Spanish-American War, this box of bones was elaborately conveyed to Seville, where it now
rests.

But in the meanwhile the Chapter of the cathedral in San Domingo had made new discoveries and
examinations; had found another box of bones, which bore to them authentic signs that the dust
it contained was the Admiral's and not his grandson's; and in spite of the Academy of History
at Madrid, it is indeed far from unlikely that the Admiral's dust does not lie in Spain or
Cuba, but in San Domingo still.  Whole books have been written about these boxes of bones;
learned societies have argued about them, experts have examined the bones and the boxes with
microscopes; and meantime the dust of Columbus, if we take the view that an error was committed
in the transference to Cuba, is not even collected all in one box.  A sacrilegious official
acquired some of it when the boxes were opened, and distributed it among various curiosity-hunters,
who have preserved it in caskets of crystal and silver.  Thus a bit of him is worn by an American
lady in a crystal locket; a pinch of him lies in a glass vial in a New York mansion; other
pinches in the Lennox Library, New York, in the Vatican, and in the University of Pavia.  In
such places, if the Admiral should fail to appear at the first note of their trumpets, must
the Angels of the Resurrection make search.

CHAPTER X

THE MAN COLUMBUS

It is not in any leaden box or crystal vase that we must search for the true remains of Christopher
Columbus.  Through these pages we have traced, so far as has been possible, the course of his
life, and followed him in what he did; all of which is but preparation for our search for the
true man, and just estimate of what he was.  We have seen, dimly, what his youth was; that
he came of poor people who were of no importance to the world at large; that he earned his
living as a working man; that he became possessed of an Idea; that he fought manfully and diligently
until he had realised it; and that then he found himself in a position beyond his powers to
deal with, not being a strong enough swimmer to hold his own in the rapid tide of events which
he himself had set flowing; and we have seen him sinking at last in that tide, weighed down
by the very things for which he had bargained and stipulated.  If these pages had been devoted
to a critical examination of the historical documents on which his life-story is based we should
also have found that he continually told lies about himself, and misrepresented facts when
the truth proved inconvenient to him; that he was vain and boastful to a degree that can only
excite our compassion.  He was naturally and sincerely pious, and drew from his religion much
strength and spiritual nourishment; but he was also capable of hypocrisy, and of using the
self-same religion as a cloak for his greed and cruelty.  What is the final image that remains
in our minds of such a man?  To answer this question we must examine his life in three dimensions.
There was its great outline of rise, zenith, and decline; there was its outward history in
minute detail, and its conduct in varying circumstances; and there was the inner life of the
man's soul, which was perhaps simpler than some of us think.  And first, as to his life as
a single thing.  It rose in poverty, it reached a brief and dazzling zenith of glory, it set
in clouds and darkness; the fame of it suffered a long night of eclipse, from which it was
rescued and raised again to a height of glory which unfortunately was in sufficiently founded
on fact; and as a reaction from this, it has been in danger of becoming entirely discredited,
and the man himself denounced as a fraud.  The reason for these surprising changes is that
in those fifty-five years granted to Columbus for the making of his life he did not consistently
listen to that inner voice which alone can hold a man on any constructive path.  He listened
to it at intervals, and he drew his inspiration from it; but he shut his ears when it had served
him, when it had brought him what he wanted.  In his moments of success he guided himself by
outward things; and thus he was at one moment a seer and ready to be a martyr, and at the next
moment he was an opportunist, watching to see which way the wind would blow, and ready to trim
his sails in the necessary direction.  Such conduct of a man's life does not make for single
light or for true greatness; rather for dim, confused lights, and lofty heights obscured in cloud.

If we examine his life in detail we find this alternating principle of conduct revealed throughout
it.  He was by nature clever, kind-hearted, rather large-souled, affectionate, and not very
honest; all the acts prompted by his nature bear the stamp of these qualities.  To them his
early years had probably added little except piety, sharp practice, and that uncomfortable
sense, often bred amid narrow and poor surroundings, that one must keep a sharp look-out for
oneself if one is to get a share of the world's good things.  Something in his blood, moreover,
craved for dignity and the splendour of high-sounding titles; craved for power also, and the
fulfilment of an arrogant pride.  All these things were in his Ligurian blood, and he breathed
them in with the very air of Genoa.  His mind was of the receptive rather than of the constructive
kind, and it was probably through those long years spent between sea voyages and brief sojourns
with his family in Genoa or Savona that he conceived that vague Idea which, as I have tried
to show, formed the impulse of his life during its brief initiative period.  Having once received
this Idea of discovery and like all other great ideas, it was in the air at the time and was
bound to take shape in some human brain--he had all his native and personal qualities to bring
to its support.  The patience to await its course he had learned from his humble and subordinate
life.  The ambition to work for great rewards was in his blood and race; and to belief in himself,
his curious vein of mystical piety was able to add the support of a ready belief in divine
selection.  This very time of waiting and endurance of disappointments also helped to cultivate
in his character two separate qualities--an endurance or ability to withstand infinite hardship
and disappointment; and also a greedy pride that promised itself great rewards for whatever
should be endured.

In all active matters Columbus was what we call a lucky man.  It was luck that brought him
to Guanahani; and throughout his life this element of good luck continually helped him.  He
was lucky, that is to say, in his relation with inanimate things; but in his relations with
men he was almost as consistently unlucky.  First of all he was probably a bad judge of men.
His humble origin and his lack of education naturally made him distrustful.  He trusted people
whom he should have regarded with suspicion, and he was suspicious of those whom he ought to
have known he could trust.  If people pleased him, he elevated them with absurd rapidity to
stations far beyond their power to fill, and then wondered that they sometimes turned upon
him; if they committed crimes against him, he either sought to regain their favour by forgiving
them, or else dogged them with a nagging, sulky resentment, and expected every one else to
punish them also.  He could manage men if he were in the midst of them; there was something
winning as well as commanding about his actual presence, and those who were devoted to him
would have served him to the death.  But when he was not on the spot all his machineries and
affairs went to pieces; he had no true organising ability; no sooner did he take his hand off
any affair for which he was responsible than it immediately came to confusion.  All these defects
are to be attributed to his lack of education and knowledge of the world.  Mental discipline
is absolutely necessary for a man who would discipline others; and knowledge of the world is
essential for one who would successfully deal with men, and distinguish those whom he can from
those whom he cannot trust.  Defects of this nature, which sometimes seem like flaws in the
man's character, may be set down to this one disability--that he was not educated and was not
by habit a man of the world.

