A SMALLER HISTORY OF GREECE

from the earliest times to the Roman conquest.

by

WILLIAM SMITH,  D.C.L., LL.D.

Note:

In this Etext, printed text in italics has been written in capital letters.

Many words in the printed text have accents, etc. which have been omitted. Dipthongs have been
expanded into two letters.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER     I  . .  Geography of Greece.

CHAPTER    II  . .  Origin of the Greeks, and the Heroic Age.

CHAPTER   III  . .  General Survey of the Greek People.
                    National Institutions.

CHAPTER    IV  . .  Early History of Peloponnesus and Sparta to
                    the end of the Messenian Wars, B.C. 668.

CHAPTER     V  . .  Early History of Athens down to the
                    Establishment of Democracy by Clisthenes,
                    B.C. 510.

CHAPTER    VI  . .  The Greek Colonies.

CHAPTER   VII  . .  The Persian Wars.--From the Ionic Revolt to
                    the Battle of Marathon, B.C. 500-490.

CHAPTER  VIII  . .  The Persian Wars.--The Battles of Thermopylae
                    Salamis, and Plataea, B.C. 480-479.

CHAPTER    IX  . .  From the end of the Persian Wars to the
                    beginning of the Peloponnesian War,
                    B.C. 479-431.

CHAPTER     X  . .  Athens in the time of Pericles.

CHAPTER    XI  . .  The Peloponnesian War.--First Period, from the
                    commencement of the War to the Peace of Nicias,
                    B.C. 431-421.

CHAPTER   XII  . .  The Peloponnesian War.--Second Period, from
                    the Peace of Nicias to the Defeat of the
                    Athenians in Sicily, B.C. 421-413.

CHAPTER  XIII  . .  The Peloponnesian War.--Third Period, from the
                    Sicilian Expedition to the end of the War,
                    B.C. 413-404.

CHAPTER   XIV  . .  The Thiry Tyrants, and the death of Socrates,
                    B.C. 404-399.

CHAPTER    XV  . .  The Expedition of the Greeks under Cyrus, and
                    Retreat of the Ten Thousand, B.C. 401-400.

CHAPTER   XVI  . .  The Supremacy of Sparta, B.C. 404-371.

CHAPTER  XVII  . .  The Supremacy of Thebes, B.C. 371-361.

CHAPTER XVIII  . .  History of the Sicilian Greeks from the
                    Destruction of the Athenian Armament to the
                    Death of Timoleon.

CHAPTER   XIX  . .  Phillip of Macedon, B.C. 359-336.

CHAPTER    XX  . .  Alexander the Great, B.C. 336-323.

CHAPTER   XXI  . .  From the Death of Alexander the Great to the
                    Conquest of Greece by the Romans, B.C. 323-146.

CHAPTER  XXII  . .  Sketch of the History of Greek Literature
                    from the Earliest Times to the Reign of
                    Alexander the Great.

CHAPTER I.

GEOGRAPHY OF GREECE.

Greece is the southern portion of a great peninsula of Europe, washed on three sides by the
Mediterranean Sea.  It is bounded on the north by the Cambunian mountains, which separate it
from Macedonia.  It extends from the fortieth degree of latitude to the thirty-sixth, its greatest
length being not more than 250 English miles, and its greatest breadth only 180.  Its surface
is considerably less than that of Portugal. This small area was divided among a number of independent
states, many of them containing a territory of only a few square miles, and none of them larger
than an English county.  But the heroism and genius of the Greeks have given an interest to
the insignificant spot of earth bearing their name, which the vastest empires have never equalled.

The name of Greece was not used by the inhabitants of the country. They called their land HELLAS,
and themselves HELLENES. At first the word HELLAS signified only a small district in Thessaly,
from which the Hellenes gradually spread over the whole country.  The names of GREECE and GREEKS
come to us from the Romans, who gave the name of GRAECIA to the country and of GRAECI to the
inhabitants.

The two northerly provinces of Greece are THESSALY and EPIRUS, separated from each other by
Mount Pindus.  Thessaly is a fertile plain enclosed by lofty mountains, and drained by the
river Peneus, which finds its way into the sea through the celebrated Vale of Tempe. Epirus
is covered by rugged ranges of mountains running from north to south, through which the Achelous
the largest river of Greece, flows towards the Corinthian gulf.

In entering central Greece from Thessaly the road runs along the coast through the narrow pass
of Thermopylae, between the sea and a lofty range of mountains.  The district along the coast
was inhabited by the EASTERN LOCRIANS, while to their west were DORIS and PHOCIS, the greater
part of the latter being occupied by Mount Parnassus, the abode of the Muses, upon the slopes
of which lay the town of Delphi with its celebrated oracle of Apollo. South of Phocis is Boeotia,
which is a large hollow basin, enclosed on every side by mountains, which prevent the waters
from flowing into the sea.  Hence the atmosphere was damp and thick, to which circumstance
the witty Athenians attributed the dullness of the inhabitants.  Thebes was the chief city
of Boeotia. South of Boeotia lies ATTICA, which is in the form of a triangle, having two of
its sides washed by the sea and its base united to the land.  Its soil is light and dry and
is better adapted for the growth of fruit than of corn.  It was particularly celebrated for
its olives, which were regarded as the gift of Athena (Minerva), and were always under the
care of that goddess.  Athens was on the western coast, between four and five miles from its
port, Piraeus.  West of Attica, towards the isthmus, is the small district of MEGARIS.

The western half of central Greece consists of WESTERN LOCRIS, AETOLIA and ACARNANIA.  These
districts were less civilised than the other countries of Greece, and were the haunts of rude
robber tribes even as late as the Peloponnesian war.

Central Greece is connected with the southern peninsula by a narrow isthmus, on which stood
the city of Corinth.  So narrow is this isthmus that the ancients regarded the peninsula as
an island, and gave to it the name of PELOPONNESUS, or the island of Pelops, from the mythical
hero of this name.  Its modern name, the MOREA, was bestowed upon it from its resemblance to
the leaf of the mulberry.

The mountains of Peloponnesus have their roots in the centre of the country, from which they
branch out towards the sea.  This central region, called ARCADIA, is the Switzerland of the
peninsula.  It is surrounded by a ring of mountains, forming a kind of natural wall, which
separates it from the remaining Peloponnesian states.  The other chief divisions of Peloponnesus
were Achaia, Argolis, Laconia, Messenia, and Elis.  ACHAIA is a narrow slip of country lying
between the northern barrier of Arcadia and the Corinthian gulf.  ARGOLIS, on the east, contained
several independent states, of which the most important was Argos.  LACONIA and MESSENIA occupied
the whole of the south of the peninsula from sea to sea:  these two countries were separated
by the lofty range of Taygetus, running from north to south, and terminating in the promontory
of Taenarum (now Cape Matapan), the southernmost point of Greece and Europe.  Sparta, the chief
town of Laconia, stood in the valley of the Eurotas, which opens out into a plain of considerable
extent towards the Laconian gulf. Messenia, in like manner, was drained by the Pamisus, whose
plain is still more extensive and fertile than that of the Eurotas. ELIS, on the west of Arcadia,
contains the memorable plain of Olympia, through which the Alpheus flows, and in which the
city of Pisa stood.

Of the numerous islands which line the Grecian shores, the most important was Euboea, stretching
along the coasts of Boeotia and Attica.  South of Euboea was the group of islands called the
CYCLADES, lying around Delos as a centre; and east of these were the SPORADES, near the Asiatic
coast.  South of these groups are the large islands of CRETE and RHODES.

The physical features of the country exercised an important influence upon the political destinies
of the people.  Greece is one of the most mountainous countries of Europe.  Its surface is
occupied by a number of small plains, either entirely surrounded by limestone mountains or
open only to the sea.  Each of the principal Grecian cities was founded in one of these small
plains; and, as the mountains which separated it from its neighbours were lofty and rugged,
each city grew up in solitary independence.  But at the same time it had ready and easy access
to the sea, and Arcadia was almost the only political division that did not possess some territory
upon the coast.  Thus shut out from their neighbours by mountains, the Greeks were naturally
attracted to the sea, and became a maritime people.  Hence they possessed the love of freedom
and the spirit of adventure, which have always characterised, more or less the inhabitants
of maritime districts.

CHAPTER II.

ORIGIN OF THE GREEKS AND THE HEROIC AGE.

No nation possesses a history till events are recorded in written documents; and it was not
till the epoch known by the name of the First Olympiad, corresponding to the year 776 B.C.,
that the Greeks began to employ writing as a means for perpetuating the memory of any historical
facts.  Before that period everything is vague and uncertain; and the exploits of the heroes
related by the poets must not be regarded as historical facts.

The PELASGIANS are universally represented as the most ancient inhabitants of Greece.  They
were spread over the Italian as well as the Grecian peninsula; and the Pelasgic language thus
formed the basis of the Latin as well as of the Greek.  They were divided into several tribes,
of which the Hellenes were probably one:  at any rate, this people, who originally dwelt in
the south of Thessaly, gradually spread over the rest of Greece.  The Pelasgians disappeared
before them, or were incorporated with them, and their dialect became the language of Greece.
The Hellenes considered themselves the descendants of one common ancestor, Hellen, the son
of Deucalion and Pyrrha.  To Hellen were ascribed three sons, Dorus, Xuthus, and AEolus.  Of
these Dorus and AEolus gave their names to the DORIANS and AEOLIANS; and Xuthus; through his
two sons Ion and Achaeus, became the forefather of the IONIANS and ACHAEANS.  Thus the Greeks
accounted for the origin of the four great divisions of their race.  The descent of the Hellenes
from a common ancestor, Hellen, was a fundamental article in the popular faith.  It was a general
practice in antiquity to invent fictitious persons for the purpose of explaining names of which
the origin was buried in obscurity.  It was in this way that Hellen and his sons came into
being; but though they never had any real existence, the tales about them may be regarded as
the traditional history of the races to whom they gave their names.

