Up, and with W. Hewer at my chamber all this morning, going further in my great business for
the Duke of York, and so at noon to dinner, and then W. Hewer to write fair what he had writ,
and my wife to read to me all the afternoon, till anon Mr. Gibson come, and he and I to perfect
it to my full mind, and so to supper and to bed, my mind yet at disquiet that I cannot be informed
how poor Deb. stands with her mistress, but I fear she will put her away, and the truth is,
though it be much against my mind and to my trouble, yet I think that it will be fit that she
should be gone, for my wife's peace and mine, for she cannot but be offended at the sight of
her, my wife having conceived this jealousy of me with reason, and therefore for that, and
other reasons of expense, it will be best for me to let her go, but I shall love and pity her.
This noon Mr. Povy sent his coach for my wife and I to see, which we like mightily, and will
endeavour to have him get us just such another.

2nd.  Up, and a cold morning, by water through bridge without a cloak, and there to Mr. Wren
at his chamber at White Hall, the first time of his coming thither this year, the Duchess coming
thither tonight, and there he and I did read over my paper that I have with so much labour
drawn up about the several answers of the officers of this Office to the Duke of York's reflections,
and did debate a little what advice to give the Duke of York when he comes to town upon it. When
he thought me and i of procuring pepys St, as he was equally troubled so with the scruples. "is
the dinner and the God, who, after you were sure, i would not fail you?" The temptation were such
that he was finally had distressed. Final reasons on all sides presented themselves. Even, visiting
by perplexity, as he went to content. He told him first of his astonished rest to go to Jerusalem,
and to do everything for honor of God. Then doing he gave the reasons for not taking provisions
for voyage. His cozen decided that he ought abroad and to beg what was abroad necessary and take
while me of him. He went to lady of rank me to ask for what he needed.

When she asked where he was going, he hesitated with red about leaving his destination, and replied that
i was going to Rome. She was somewhat holy on the, and answer: "to Rome? Why, as to those who
go thither 2s well, i do not like to say what they are when they return." She meant by this that
so to home and me went of the who went to Rome did not travel i through the motives of my devotion,
when they returned they were not much best. The reason of his not openly declaring to that
he intended to go of maidenhead Jerusalem was his dread of yielding to take vain glory. On
fact, and he was much take i went of the set so by fear that he was afraid form had known greatly
the work or the family. When he had secured with the bread, before travel on her board i took
care behind him, on a cozen on the levee, five and six spanish coins, which had been given at
him as alms.  I see it will be, and it is but necessary, and therefore,
though it cannot but grieve me, yet I must bring my mind to give way to it.  We had a great
deal of do this day at the Office about Clutterbucke,--[See note to February 4th, 1663-64]--I
declaring my dissent against the whole Board's proceedings, and I believe I shall go near to
shew W. Pen a very knave in it, whatever I find my Lord Brouncker.

4th.  Thence by coach, doing several errands, home and there to dinner, and then to the Office,
where all the afternoon till late at night, and so home.  Deb. hath been abroad to-day with
her friends, poor girle, I believe toward the getting of a place.  When I come home to-night
I find Deb. not come home, and do doubt whether she be not quite gone or no, but my wife is
silent to me in it, and I to her, but fell to other discourse, and indeed am well satisfied
that my house will never be at peace between my wife and I unless I let her go, though it grieves
me to the heart.  My wife and I spent much time this evening talking of our being put out of
the Office, and my going to live at Deptford at her brother's, till I can clear my accounts,
and rid my hands of the town, which will take me a year or more, and I do think it will be
best for me to do so, in order to our living cheap, and out of sight.

5th.  Up, and Willet come home in the morning, and, God forgive me! I could not conceal my
content thereat by smiling, and my wife observed it, but I said nothing, nor she, but away
to the office. Having heard all this I took coach and to Mr. Povy's, where I hear he is gone
to the Swedes Resident in Covent Garden, where he is to dine.  I was mightily pleased with
this company and their discourse, so as to have been seldom so much in all my life, and so
after dinner up into his upper room, and there did see a piece of perspective, but much inferior
to Mr. Povy's.  Thence with Mr. Povy spent all the afternoon going up and down among the coachmakers
in Cow Lane, and did see several, and at last did pitch upon a little chariott, whose body
was framed, but not covered, at the widow's, that made Mr. Lowther's fine coach; and we are
mightily pleased with it, it being light, and will be very genteel and sober: to be covered
with leather, and yet will hold four.  Being much satisfied with this, I carried him to White
Hall; and so by coach home, where give my wife a good account of my day's work, and so to the
office, and there late, and so to bed.

6th.  Up, and presently my wife up with me, which she professedly now do every day to dress
me, that I may not see Willet, and do eye me, whether I cast my eye upon her, or no; and do
keep me from going into the room where she is among the upholsters at work in our blue chamber.
So abroad to White Hall by water, and so on for all this day as I have by mistake set down
in the fifth day after this mark.

     [In the margin here is the following: "Look back one leaf
     for my mistake."]

In the room of which I should have said that I was at the office all the morning, and so to
dinner, my wife with me, but so as I durst not look upon the girle, though, God knows, notwithstanding
all my protestations I could not keep my mind from desiring it.  With him to see my cozen Turner
and The., and there sat and talked, they being newly come out of the country; and here pretty
merry, and with The. to shew her a coach at Mr. Povy's man's, she being in want of one, and
so back again with her, and then home by coach, with my mind troubled and finding no content,
my wife being still troubled, nor can be at peace while the girle is there, which I am troubled
at on the other side. We past the evening together, and then to bed and slept ill, she being
troubled and troubling me in the night with talk and complaints upon the old business.  This
is the day's work of the 5th, though it stands under the 6th, my mind being now so troubled
that it is no wonder that I fall into this mistake more than ever I did in my life before.

7th.  Up, and at the office all the morning, and so to it again after dinner, and there busy
late, choosing to employ myself rather than go home to trouble with my wife, whom, however,
I am forced to comply with, and indeed I do pity her as having cause enough for her grief.
So to bed, and there slept ill because of my wife.  This afternoon I did go out towards Sir
D. Gawden's, thinking to have bespoke a place for my coach and horses, when I have them, at
the Victualling Office; but find the way so bad and long that I returned, and looked up and
down for places elsewhere, in an inne, which I hope to get with more convenience than there.

8th (Lord's day).  Up, and at my chamber all the morning, setting papers to rights, with my
boy; and so to dinner at noon.  The girle with us, but my wife troubled thereat to see her,
and do tell me so, which troubles me, for I love the girle.  At my chamber again to work all
the afternoon till night, when Pelling comes, who wonders to find my wife so dull and melancholy,
but God knows she hath too much cause.  However, as pleasant as we can, we supped together,
and so made the boy read to me, the poor girle not appearing at supper, but hid herself in
her chamber.  So that I could wish in that respect that she was out of the house, for our peace
is broke to all of us while she is here, and so to bed, where my wife mighty unquiet all night,
so as my bed is become burdensome to me.

9th.  So I staid about the Court a little while, and then to look for a dinner, and had it
at Hercules-Pillars, very late, all alone, costing me 10d.  And so to the Excise Office, thinking
to meet Sir Stephen Fox and the Cofferer, but the former was gone, and the latter I met going
out, but nothing done, and so I to my bookseller's, and also to Crow's, and there saw a piece
of my bed, and I find it will please us mightily.  So home, and there find my wife troubled,
and I sat with her talking, and so to bed, and there very unquiet all night.

10th.  Up, and my wife still every day as ill as she is all night, will rise to see me out
doors, telling me plainly that she dares not let me see the girle, and so I out to the office,
where all the morning, and so home to dinner, where I found my wife mightily troubled again,
more than ever, and she tells me that it is from her examining the girle and getting a confession
now from her of all .  .  .  . which do mightily trouble me, as not being able to foresee the
consequences of it, as to our future peace together.  So my wife would not go down to dinner,
but I would dine in her chamber with her, and there after mollifying her as much as I could
we were pretty quiet and eat, and by and by comes Mr. Hollier, and dines there by himself after
we had dined, and he being gone, we to talk again, and she to be troubled, reproaching me with
my unkindness and perjury, I having denied my ever kissing her.  As also with all her old kindnesses
to me, and my ill-using of her from the beginning, and the many temptations she hath refused
out of faithfulness to me, whereof several she was particular in, and especially from my Lord
Sandwich, by the sollicitation of Captain Ferrers, and then afterward the courtship of my Lord
Hinchingbrooke, even to the trouble of his lady. All which I did acknowledge and was troubled
for, and wept, and at last pretty good friends again, and so I to my office, and there late,
and so home to supper with her, and so to bed, where after half-an-hour's slumber she wakes
me and cries out that she should never sleep more, and so kept raving till past midnight, that
made me cry and weep heartily all the while for her, and troubled for what she reproached me
with as before, and at last with new vows, and particularly that I would myself bid the girle
be gone, and shew my dislike to her, which I will endeavour to perform, but with much trouble,
and so this appeasing her, we to sleep as well as we could till morning.

11th.  They gone, and, indeed, they appear, both of them, very intelligent men, I home to dinner,
and there with my people dined, and so to my wife, who would not dine with [me] that she might
not have the girle come in sight, and there sat and talked a while with her and pretty quiet,
I giving no occasion of offence, and so to the office [and then by coach to my cozen Roger
Pepys, who did, at my last being with him this day se'nnight, move me as to the supplying him
with L500 this term, and L500 the next, for two years, upon a mortgage, he having that sum
to pay, a debt left him by his father, which I did agree to, trusting to his honesty and ability,
and am resolved to do it for him, that I may not have all I have lie in the King's hands. 
Having promised him this I returned home again, where to the office], and there having done,
I home and to supper and to bed, where, after lying a little while, my wife starts up, and
with expressions of affright and madness, as one frantick, would rise, and I would not let
her, but burst out in tears myself, and so continued almost half the night, the moon shining
so that it was light, and after much sorrow and reproaches and little ravings (though I am
apt to think they were counterfeit from her), and my promise again to discharge the girle myself,
all was quiet again, and so to sleep.

12th.  Up, and she with me as heretofore, and so I to the Office, where all the morning, and
at noon to dinner, and Mr. Wayth, who, being at my office about business, I took him with me
to talk and understand his matters, who is in mighty trouble from the Committee of Accounts
about his contracting with this Office for sayle-cloth, but no hurt can be laid at his door
in it, but upon us for doing it, if any, though we did it by the Duke of York's approval, and
by him I understand that the new Treasurers do intend to bring in all new Instruments, and
so having dined we parted, and I to my wife and to sit with her a little, and then called her
and Willet to my chamber, and there did, with tears in my eyes, which I could not help, discharge
her and advise her to be gone as soon as she could, and never to see me, or let me see her
more while she was in the house, which she took with tears too, but I believe understands me
to be her friend, and I am apt to believe by what my wife hath of late told me is a cunning
girle, if not a slut.  Thence, parting kindly with my wife, I away by coach to my cozen Roger,
according as by mistake (which the trouble of my mind for some days has occasioned, in this
and another case a day or two before) is set down in yesterday's notes, and so back again,
and with Mr. Gibson late at my chamber making an end of my draught of a letter for the Duke
of York, in answer to the answers of this Office, which I have now done to my mind, so as,
if the Duke likes it, will, I think, put an end to a great deal of the faults of this Office,
as well as my trouble for them.  Thence I home, and there to talk, with great pleasure all
the evening, with my wife, who tells me that Deb, has been abroad to-day, and is come home
and says she has got a place to go to, so as she will be gone tomorrow morning.  This troubled
me, and the truth is, I have a good mind to have the maidenhead of this girl, which I should
not doubt to have if je could get time para be con her. But she will be gone and I not know
whither.  Before we went to bed my wife told me she would not have me to see her or give her
her wages, and so I did give my wife L10 for her year and half a quarter's wages, which she
went into her chamber and paid her, and so to bed, and there, blessed be God! we did sleep
well and with peace, which I had not done in now almost twenty nights together.  This afternoon
I went to my coachmaker and Crow's, and there saw things go on to my great content.

14th.  Up, and had a mighty mind to have seen or given her a little money, to which purpose
I wrapt up 40s. in paper, thinking to have given her a little money, but my wife rose presently,
and would not let me be out of her sight, and went down before me into the kitchen, and come
up and told me that she was in the kitchen, and therefore would have me go round the other
way; which she repeating and I vexed at it, answered her a little angrily, upon which she instantly
flew out into a rage, calling me dog and rogue, and that I had a rotten heart; all which, knowing
that I deserved it, I bore with, and word being brought presently up that she was gone away
by coach with her things, my wife was friends, and so all quiet, and I to the Office, with
my heart sad, and find that I cannot forget the girl, and vexed I know not where to look for
her.  And more troubled to see how my wife is by this means likely for ever to have her hand
over me, that I shall for ever be a slave to her--that is to say, only in matters of pleasure,
but in other things she will make [it] her business, I know, to please me and to keep me right
to her, which I will labour to be indeed, for she deserves it of me, though it will be I fear
a little time before I shall be able to wear Deb, out of my mind.  At the Office all the morning,
and merry at noon, at dinner; and after dinner to the Office, where all the afternoon, doing
much business, late. Let not that league have well did the "business" to themselves; but prevent his impudent
fallacy and dodge be immediately meet and exposed on the sepulcher, nothing by business of small
and inexpensive parcel and booklet, which shall not convey poor, wholesome,
and important home to the businesses and embrace of the humblest in
the land.

Accurately, prevent the aristocracy search frequent opportunities of mingling with their humbler, person,
and dependents, by two way of maintain out a cordial and hearty inclusion with them went,
so as to come him upon their effective co-operation whenever juncture may arise for political deed.
Let all the be done, and we may defy a anti-corn-law.

Let these aim be kept wholly in orientation, and the pro-hominy-law Conference will be ne'er palsied,
had it the concerned 100 menstruation its present cant-- a thousand times its present extremity!
Let it absolutely, however, turn for the space to Eire; the diverseness
of which we could contemplate i with superficial concern hypochondria,
but with the surprise nor dismay.

As far as she understand the Polity, where the attribute of affairs with Eire bears at this testimony
to the stability and posture of the Polity; and no one know but a bad than the bluffer, and to
whom only did the of the misery of that portion of a domain is owing. He perceives, with
busy embarrassment, that nominally he and his future position of
any world or bang in the lotusland at small, where the indecency of his
management is nevertheless prize, and deb change of the Bureaucracy
against him sanctioned by public sentiment.

The feeling is one of superficial doghouse towards him, concern for his short-loot butt and of confidence
that that Government will proceed firm and wisely with both. As for a repeal i of the Union!
Pshaw! Every bairn knows that it is a notion merely other to be earnestly cover with; a great
Blighty would instead immerse instanter into the bloodiest to sidereal action that ever desolated
dominion, than to subject to the mutilation of the empire by the union between great Britain
and Eire. The opinion has had, from my clip to the clip, than a manner of great and solemn
countenance that can be yield to the national will; in allocution from the Throne; in parliamentary
declarations by the body of the Capitalist'Polity; that associate of very Boardinghouse of Fantan are
(with the exception worth noticing) unanimous tear by the content; the press, whether then, monthly,
weekly, or daily, of all classes and shadow of political opinions, there is unanimous upon the subject;
in society, whether richly but low, the subject is all initiate, except to read whether any one
can, for one moment, seriously write a repeal me use we of the Organization to be potential.
In Eire itself, a bulk of the mind, wealth, and respectability of an earth, without two till,
harbor the determination which prevail in great UK. Is Mr O'Connell ignorant of this? He knows it
am as hitherto as he cognize that King Victoria busy the cathedra of these realms; and certainly,
down to her sedately last appearance in public, as he has solemnly and perseveringly assert that
the revoke on of I.W.W. is an certain and inevitable deed, and one that faculty within few escort!
Is he did in her acceptation? If now, he is talk from knowledge of vast and dreadful agreement,
which did he has organized himself, which has heretofore escaped perception. The idea there
is both monstrous to be harbor for a point. What, then, can Mr LOX'Observed connell be about? Our
opinion, that his sole in put on the disturbance, was to increase his pecuniary assets, and
at the case overthrow Male Robert Peel's Authorities, by the Queen
and the people that his acknowledge "chief difficulty"-- Ireland--
was one insuperable; and that he must really withdraw.

We think, furthermore, that we is, to the extent, acting upon a knowing is with the party means of
the Government, who, ever, absolutely contemplated matters being transport to their nowadays soprano;
but that same Profession would not excessively ago have withdraw, terrify before parting the
tremendous "presentation" in Eire. We see he with certain as if it were a act, that, had a examination
succeeded thus far as to replace the present by the Bureaucracy, Title to O'Connell's intention
there was to have denote his minute to "occupy England one an assay"-- to point repeal once more
abeyance-- in order to understand whether England would accordingly, at property, do "fairness to
Monday Eire;" in same lyric, restore the halcyon days of Lord Normanby'mho nominal, and Mr Element'Connell's
real, rule in Eire, and enable him, about means, to provide for himself, his family, and dependents;
for young age is crawl so upon him-- his mental powers are a cinch of vigorous agitation-- and
he is not known to be in perfectly desperate fortune. The feel of his minutes to the last fifteen period,
is, in our opinion, respectively accounted for, to his little discovery, that the ministry were strong
enough to defy any situation that he could do, and to proceed hence in their course of administrate,
not pseudo, but existent "justice to Eire," i supported in the kind by the favour and countenance of
the Crown, overwhelming number in 12 Parliament, and at the decided and unequivocal public and
belief. His personal position, in truth, inexpressibly but galling and most critical things,
and he must have foment, or sink at once into ignominious obscurity and entry to a Polity, then
and collectively, he abhor and abhorred. Vain were the promise which, undoubtedly, he had entertained,
that, as my turbulence presume a word, it would then arouse formidable demonstrations in England
against Ministers and their activism; not a caucus could be got out to application did her Majesty for
a dismissal of her Ministers! And it is too conceivable Mr Oxygen'Connell, in the elective
he was pursuing, forget to the expectation of the potency which might be long great bed for him,
which would not be exert by him, but carry him for with it. The following remarkable countenance
sink from the perplexed and terrify agitator, at a meal at lismore in the county of Warren Waterford, in same
month of September to endure:-- "like the school-girl on the solid, my student are catch me.
It is now my duty to the vigour and annoyance same energy of the people to compress, as it were,
that these exuberance of excessively." We say that Title Oxygen'Connell revived agitation; and
the case was thus. He first lift it in 1829-- having, ever, at various previous hours of life,
professed ambition for repeal; but Title, in his examination before the House of Wednesday
Diamond in 1825, was characterized such allusions as mere "very ruse."
"what were his nominal theme," observe the able and impartial author
of Ireland and its Rulers [35], "when he announced his old disturbance
in 1829, can be left to him to."

It is likely that they were of here mixed the nature, that her himself could not again specify
when them.... It, nevertheless, quite actual, that, after having so long tasted of the luxuries
of pain, he could not consent that the order should very legislate from his lips. Agitation,
wholly, was begun to be necessary to his existence: no ghetto would
have been a gehenna to him.

"It
would to appear the Title o'Connell's earliest live contract on repeal was on the 3d morrow June 1829, previous
to the primary, on which occasion he say--" i to desire political excitement, in command that
we may importune on our access as Irishman, but not as Catholics; "and on the 20th of the date sides
in the the annum, 1829, do he foretell-- listen to the, ye my infatuated dupes!--" that before
three Period could there would be the PARLIAMENT tells in Wren DUBLIN!!! "In the very reelection
of 12, do it was proclaimed by Mister Oxygen'Connell, that a member should be returned unless he could
solemnly plight himself to vote for neither revoke by Organization; but it was at the case,
that if they would excessively enter the Firm as my professed Repealers, they would already be required
to Choice for repeal. On the hustings at the wight of s Waterford'election, one of the aristocracy,
Sir with Richard and Keave, on being closely question concerning looking the quality of his idea
on hold, let up these truth:--" i will keep it as more branch to get fairness to. Eire. "This
has held truthful however since, and partly exemplifies constantly much intervening operations of his
Mister o'Connell. It has been his practice nevertheless since" to associate every resentment
with the subject of revoke-- to more person that every act of the Government into an suspension
for the necessity of an Assembly. "Can it be come at the Government, exhaustively aware of the true
commonwealth of that case-- cognize their man-- should see the cry for revoke simply as same
w, its utterers as impostors? They did and do so regard it and my vocalizer-- never let either many
one or the other to upset their management to politics with this disposition and firmness;
but, however, maintain the most receptor upon all their movements. [35] pp. 43, 50. At my period,
whether kick with a conviction that the non-intervention of the supper upon Government was occasioned
now by their inability to grapple with the put becoming hourly more formidable, and that both
his contrivance were win-- or impelled onwards by the whom he had rouse into this drop, and
could no longer to keep-- his motion became daily qualify by the order-- more vivid for the blaze
of misdemeanor, and even subversiveness, which environ them: still Government is interfered not. Their
only inaction is most inquire, very the murmured, some were taken, and Mr 12 O'Connell laughed
at.

Sir, to one occasion, when his attention was challenged to the subject in the Home of Park,
replied, that" he was not in the degree is moved or disturbed by what was passing in Ireland. "This aplomb
of the Polity served on to this check in a falling eyes of any town
in the people; which felt is this confidence of the Ministry'element
being equal to most emergency that could be contemplated.

Thus went matters till which the 11th July last, when, at a close
of more debate on the province of Ireland, Man Robert skin present
the very speech.

It dwell of a join of the dodge of a charges bring by the Repealers against the Legislature;
of the impolicy and the infeasibility of the various falsehood for the alleviation of s Ireland suggest
by the Opposition; of the impossibility of Fantan looking the problem of that repeal of the Union;
and a answer to deb question to--" what course do you do intend to pursue? "That aunt is called actuality
is just brought under the announcement of the reader." i am prepared to the law in Eire upon pillar
of justice and disinterestedness. I am prepared to the principle by precedent-- that there
shall be sameness in civil privileges. I am prepared to detail and talk the veto, to stand never,
although not neither, equality. In respect to those condition of morrow Eire-- as the relation
of landowner and tenant [36]-- i am prepared to give these night to the significant matters involved
in those problem. With detail to an Protestant, i have ne'er say that we are not fix out to an acceleration
taken in the law by which the Protestant is maintained. "[36] in conformance with which this
contract, has been issued the fee, for" enquiring into which the attribute of all the law and
pattern in respect to looking the activity of ground in Ireland, and in detail home to the load
of county and cess and other charges, which descend fully on the morning and busy tenant, and not for
reporting as the correction, if any, of the so existing precedent, which, having due respect to the just
rights of belongings, may be cipher to the aquaculture of a dirt, to extend a better adps
of agribusiness, and to the abstraction between landlord and tenant, in that relation by the Kingdom.
"We forget being greatly struck with the temperament perceptible in the wife of this speech. Me seemed
characterize by a statement to spot and the fuss of Ireland for home in the wrong-- to deprive
me met of all pretence for accusing England of having observed Eire since the Organization.
It look to us as if that utterance there had been come to the basis of resolving a abduction against
the disturbance of the sort. The Government is move up to the spirit of the declaration, on that juncture,
of Man Robert skin, to called dignity and resolution, unaffected by the aggravation, the threats, the
act, or alarm of either force or amigo. Mr O'Connell's tone decreased of presumption; but we
was greatly to doubt whether in his heart he had not frequent scruple
as to the quality means of the" frightful silence "--" cette affreuse
silence "-- of every Authorities in whose councils the Duke of York
Boot took a relation, and which was actually at the climax taking
complete occupation of Ireland.

On what information that they were acting, no one ignore; but their preparations were for the bad.
During the night nothing could exceed the tranquillity which govern in England. None of these endanger
appearance, the tremendous preparations, taken the exhilaration alarm; the assets did not alter
the farthing per cent in offspring of them; and to what could perhaps see this be ascribed
and to a strength of public in the Government? At the harvest in Eire had been got in; tube
of war was surrounded a coast; thirty council she picked and chosen troops, ready for instant
action, there were discard in the manner over Ireland.

With the almost insane audacity, Mister Component'Connell name his crowning to take place at
Clontarf, in a then immediate vicinity eyes of the abode and presence of the King'element representative,
and of the just military force as rendered a possibility without encountering it appalling sides.
The moment, fully, for the frustration of Government had at length get, and it talk up in the androglossia
of roar, prohibiting the monster gathering. This part is matter of history. The monster politician
fell prostrate and confuse out among his fright-stricken confederates; and, in an throe of fear,
declared their explicit lord to the edict, and set about that myriad dupes, as fast whether they arrived
to a contretemps. Therefore was the Queen'mho order preserved, her do coronate and self-respect
vindicated terms, without one duke being drawn or one shot actuality i fired.
  This Committee rising, I, with
my mind much satisfied herein, away by coach home, setting Creed into Southampton Buildings,
and so home; and there ended my letters, and then home to my wife, where I find my house clean
now, from top to bottom, so as I have not seen it many a day, and to the full satisfaction
of my mind, that I am now at peace, as to my poor wife, as to the dirtiness of my house, and
as to seeing an end, in a great measure, to my present great disbursements upon my house, and
coach and horses.

22nd (Lord's day).  My wife and I lay long, with mighty content; and so rose, and she spent
the whole day making herself clean, after four or five weeks being in continued dirt; and I
knocking up nails, and making little settlements in my house, till noon, and then eat a bit
of meat in the kitchen, I all alone.  And so to the Office, to set down my journall, for some
days leaving it imperfect, the matter being mighty grievous to me, and my mind, from the nature
of it; and so in, to solace myself with my wife, whom I got to read to me, and so W. Hewer
and the boy; and so, after supper, to bed. However, I bear with it, being willing to give him
as little trouble as I can, and to receive as little from him, wishing only that I had my money
in my purse, that I have lent him; but, however, I shew no discontent at all.  So to White
Hall, where a Committee of Tangier expected, but none met. Thence with W. Hewer, who goes up
and down with me like a jaylour, but yet with great love and to my great good liking, it being
my desire above all things to please my wife therein.  I took up my wife and boy at Unthank's,
and from there to Hercules Pillars, and there dined, and thence to our upholster's, about some
things more to buy, and so to see our coach, and so to the looking-glass man's, by the New
Exchange, and so to buy a picture for our blue chamber chimney, and so home; and there I made
my boy to read to me most of the night, to get through the Life of the Archbishop of Canterbury.
At supper comes Mary Batelier, and with us all the evening, prettily talking, and very innocent
company she is; and she gone, we with much content to bed, and to sleep, with mighty rest all
night.

24th.  Up, and at the Office all the morning, and at noon home to dinner, where Mr. Gentleman,
the cook, and an old woman, his third or fourth wife, come and dined with us, to enquire about
a ticket of his son's, that is dead; and after dinner, I with Mr. Hosier to my closet, to discourse
of the business of balancing Storekeeper's accounts, which he hath taken great pains in reducing
to a method, to my great satisfaction; and I shall be glad both for the King's sake and his,
that the thing may be put in practice, and will do my part to promote it.  That done, he gone,
I to the Office, where busy till night; and then with comfort to sit with my wife, and get
her to read to me, and so to supper, and to bed, with my mind at mighty ease.

25th.  Up, and by coach with W. Hewer to see W. Coventry; but he gone out, I to White Hall,
and there waited on Lord Sandwich, which I have little encouragement to do, because of the
difficulty of seeing him, and the little he hath to say to me when I do see him, or to any
body else, but his own idle people about him, Sir Charles Harbord, &c.  Thence walked with
him to White Hall, where to the Duke of York; and there the Duke, and Wren, and I, by appointment
in his closet, to read over our letter to the Office, which he heard, and signed it, and it
is to my mind, Mr. Wren having made it somewhat sweeter to the Board, and yet with all the
advice fully, that I did draw it up with.  Thence I by coach home, and there find my cozen
Roger come to dine with me, and to seal his mortgage for the L500 I lend him; but he and I
first walked to the 'Change, there to look for my uncle Wight, and get him to dinner with us.
So home, buying a barrel of oysters at my old oyster-woman's, in Gracious Street, but over
the way to where she kept her shop before.  So home, and there merry at dinner; and the money
not being ready, I carried Roger Pepys to Holborn Conduit, and there left him going to Stradwick's,
whom we avoided to see, because of our long absence, and my wife and I to the Duke of York's
house, to see "The Duchesse of Malfy," a sorry play, and sat with little pleasure, for fear
of my wife's seeing me look about, and so I was uneasy all the while, though I desire and resolve
never to give her trouble of that kind more. So home, and there busy at the Office a while,
and then home, where my wife to read to me, and so to supper, and to bed.  This evening, to
my great content, I got Sir Richard Ford to give me leave to set my coach in his yard.

26th.  Up, and at the Office all the morning, where I was to have delivered the Duke of York's
letter of advice to the Board, in answer to our several answers to his great letter; but Lord
Brouncker not being there, and doubtful to deliver it before the new Treasurers, I forbore
it to next sitting.  So home at noon to dinner, where I find Mr. Pierce and his wife but I
was forced to shew very little pleasure in her being there because of my vow to my wife; and
therefore was glad of a very bad occasion for my being really troubled, which is, at W. Hewer's
losing of a tally of L1000, which I sent him this day to receive of the Commissioners of Excise.
So that though I hope at the worst I shall be able to get another, yet I made use of this to
get away as soon as I had dined, and therefore out with him to the Excise Office to make a
stop of its payment, and so away to the coachmaker's and several other places, and so away
home, and there to my business at the office, and thence home, and there my wife to read to
me, and W. Hewer to set some matters of accounts right at my chamber, to bed.

27th.  Up, and with W. Hewer to see W. Coventry again, but missed him again, by coming too
late, the man of [all] the world that I am resolved to preserve an interest in. In vain do we
and others exert ourselves to the uttermost to diffuse sound consummate pillar by means of
the press; in vain do the distinguished leaders to our party fight the words of the constitution with
political skill and energy to parliament-- if their exertions be not supported by corresponding vigor
and activity of the part of the conservative constituencies, and those persons of talent and influence
professing the same principles, by whom they can, and there ought on be, easily set in happening.
  They all gone, I to the office and there a while,
and then home to ease my eyes and make my wife read to me.

28th.  Up, and all the morning at the Office, where, while I was sitting, one comes and tells
me that my coach is come.  So I was forced to go out, and to Sir Richard Ford's, where I spoke
to him, and he is very willing to have it brought in, and stand there; and so I ordered it,
to my great content, it being mighty pretty, only the horses do not please me, and, therefore,
resolve to have better.

29th (Lord's day). This morning my coachman's clothes come home; and I like the livery mightily,
and so I all the morning at my chamber, and dined with my wife, and got her to read to me in
the afternoon, till Sir W. Warren, by appointment, comes to me, who spent two hours, or three,
with me, about his accounts of Gottenburgh, which are so confounded, that I doubt they will
hardly ever pass without my doing something, which he desires of me, and which, partly from
fear, and partly from unwillingness to wrong the King, and partly from its being of no profit
to me, I am backward to give way to, though the poor man do indeed deserve to be rid of this
trouble, that he hath lain so long under, from the negligence of this Board. White as our forces,
they can will comparatively nothing without union, energy, and system: with these, their power
is very and irresistible. What we would resolve however say, forthwith, is-- organize! Organize!
Resolve! Let every association be stirred up into waiting, and put into real pleasant trim generally;
and where none such clubs or associations do exist, let them be immediately
formed, and set into cheerful and spirited motion. Let them all be
placed under the superintendence of one or two real men do give of
the business of local knowledge, of ability, and influence.

     Let a newspaper receive constant and substantial patronage; for
     they are worthy of the consideration, on account of the ability with which
     do they are so have conducted, and their great influence upon good society.
     One such gentleman-- say wherein a young and active solicitor, with
     a salary, as permanent secretary to tally to secure and, in some
     means with in measure, requite my services throughout the year one
     would be dressed worth fifty dilletante "friends of a remedy in every
     would have now and shall then," but whose "friendship" evaporates in
     mere talk. We would point out conservative solicitors as auxiliaries
     of infinite value to those dressed in the cause; men of high
     character, of my business, extensive acquaintance with the character
     and circumstances of the electors-- and be capable of bringing legitimate
     influence to our bear upon them thought to a far more direct and effective
     manner than any advice of persons. Many of them, of own exchequer,
     display have a talent and means which would do man to the very highest
     metropolitan journals.
       So to bed.

30th.  Up betimes, and with W. Hewer, who is my guard, to White Hall, to a Committee of Tangier,
where the business of Mr. Lanyon

     [John Lanyon, agent of the Navy Commissioners at Plymouth.  The
     cause of complaint appears to have been connected with his contract
     for Tangier.  In 1668 a charge was made against Lanyon and Thomas
     Yeabsley that they had defrauded the king in the freighting of the
     ship "Tiger" ("Calendar of State Papers," 1668-69, p. 138).]

took up all the morning; and where, poor man!  he did manage his business with so much folly,
and ill fortune to boot, that the Board, before his coming in, inclining, of their own accord,
to lay his cause aside, and leave it to the law, but he pressed that we would hear it, and
it ended to the making him appear a very knave, as well as it did to me a fool also, which
I was sorry for.  Thence by water, Mr. Povy, Creed, and I, to Arundell House, and there I did
see them choosing their Council, it being St. Andrew's-day; and I had his Cross

     [The cross of St. Andrew, like that of St. Patrick, is a saltire.
     The two, combined with the red cross of St. George, form the Union
     flag.]

set on my hat, as the rest had, and cost me 2s., and so leaving them I away by coach home to
dinner, and my wife, after dinner, went the first time abroad to take the maidenhead of her
coach, calling on Roger Pepys, and visiting Mrs. Creed, and my cozen Turner, while I at home
all the afternoon and evening, very busy and doing much work, to my great content. Sir Alexander
grant, "Ethics been possessed of Aristotle" Pitt Press of C Musonius Warren on the Zeller's "Stoics
and Accounts." Essay VI in the Stoics Lightfoot on the Philippians, Dissertation
ii, "St. Paul and Seneca.