If, then, the voice of international finance is so feeble when it is raised against the terrible
scourge of war, can it have much force on the rare occasions when it speaks in its favour?
For there is no inconsistency with the view that finance is a peacemaker, if we now acknowledge
that finance may sometimes ask for the exertion of force on its behalf. As private citizens
we all of us want to live at peace with our neighbours, but if one of them steals our property
or makes a public nuisance of himself, we sometimes want to invoke the aid of the strong arm
of the law in dealing with him. Consequently, although it cannot be true that finance wanted
war such as this one, it cannot be denied that wars have happened in the past, which have been
furthered by financiers who believed that they suffered wrongs which only war could put right.
The Egyptian war of 1882 is a case in point, and the South African war of 1899 is another.

In Egypt international finance had lent money to a potentate ruling an economically backward
people, without taking much trouble to consider how the money was to be spent, or whether the
country could stand the charge on its revenues that the loans would involve. The fact that
it did so was from one point of view a blunder and from another a crime, but this habit of
committing blunders and crimes, which is sometimes indulged in by finance as by all other forms
of human activity, will have to be dealt with in our next chapter, when we deal with the evils
of international finance. The consequence of this blunder was that Egypt went into default,
and England's might was used on behalf of the bondholders who had made a bad investment. This
fact has been put forward by Mr. Brailsford, in his very interesting book on "The War of Steel
and Gold," and by other writers, to show that our diplomacy is the tool of international finance,
and that the forces created by British taxpayers for the defence of their country's honour,
are used for the sordid purpose of wringing interest for a set of money-grubbers in the City,
out of a poor and down-trodden peasantry overburdened by the exactions and extortions of their
rulers. Mr. Brailsford, of course, puts his case much better than I can, in any brief summary
of his views. He has earned and won the highest respect by his power as a brilliant writer,
and by his disinterested and consistent championship of the cause of honesty and justice, wherever
and whenever he thinks it to be in danger. Nevertheless, in this matter of the Egyptian war
I venture to think that he is mistaking the tail for the dog. Diplomacy, I fancy, was not wagged
by finance, but used finance as a very opportune pretext. If Egypt had been Brazil, it is not
very likely that the British fleet would have shelled Rio de Janeiro. The bondholders would
have been reminded of the sound doctrine, caveat emptor, which signifies that those who make
a bad bargain have only themselves to blame, and must pocket their loss with the best grace
that they can muster. As it was, Egypt had long ago been marked out as a place that England
wanted, because of its vitally important position on the way to India. Kinglake, the historian,
writing some three-quarters of a century ago, long before the Suez Canal was built, prophesied
that Egypt would some day be ours.

After the building of the Canal, the command of this short cut to India made Egypt still more
important. England bought shares in the Canal, so using finance as a means to a political object;
and it did so still more effectively when it used the Egyptian default and the claims of English
bondholders as an excuse for taking its seat in Egypt and sitting there ever since. The bondholders
were certainly benefited, but it is my belief that they might have whistled for their money
until the crack of doom if it had not been that their claims chimed in with Imperial policy.
It may have been wicked of us to take Egypt, but if so let us lay the blame on the right doorstep
and not abuse the poor bondholder and financier who only wanted their money and were used as
a stalking horse by the Machiavellis of Downing Street. Mr Brailsford's own account of the
matter, indeed, shows very clearly that policy, and not finance, ruled the whole transaction.

In South Africa there was no question of default, or of suffering bondholders. There was a
highly prosperous mining industry in a country that had formerly belonged to us, and had been
given back to its Dutch inhabitants under circumstances which the majority of people in this
country regarded as humiliating. On this occasion even the pretext was political. It may have
been that the English mine-owners thought they could earn better profits under the British
flag than under the rule of Mr. Kruger, though I am inclined to believe that even in their
case their incentive was chiefly a patriotic desire to repaint in red that part of the map
in which they carried on their business. Certainly their grievance, as it was put before us
at home, was frankly and purely political. They said they wanted a vote and that Mr. Kruger
would not give them one. That acute political thinker, Mr. Dooley of Chicago, pointed out at
the time that if Mr. Kruger "had spint his life in a rale raypublic where they burn gas," he
would have given them the votes, but done the counting himself. But Mr. Kruger did not adopt
this cynical expedient, and public opinion here, though a considerable minority detested the
war, endorsed the determination of the Government to restore the disputed British suzerainty
over the Transvaal into actual sovereignty. Subsequent events, largely owing to the ample self-government
given to the Transvaal immediately after its conquest, have shown that the war did more good
than harm; and the splendid defeat of the Germans by the South African forces under General
Botha--our most skilful opponent fifteen years ago--has, we may hope, wiped out all traces
of the former conflict. But what we are now concerned with is the fact, which will be endorsed
by all whose memory goes back to those days, that the South African war, though instigated
and furthered by financial interests, would never have happened if public opinion had not been
in favour of it on grounds which were quite other than financial--the desire to bring back
the Transvaal into the British Empire and to wipe out the memory of the surrender after Majuba,
and humanitarian feeling which believed, rightly or wrongly, that the natives would be treated
better under our rule. These may or may not have been good reasons for going to war, but at
least they were not financial.

Summing up the results of this rather discursive chapter we see that the chief benefit conferred
on mankind by international finance is a quickening of the pace at which the wealth of the
world is increased and multiplied, by using the capital saved by old countries for fostering
the productive power of new ones. This is surely something solid on the credit side of the
balance sheet, though it would be a good deal more so if mankind had made better progress with
the much more difficult problem of using and distributing its wealth. If the rapid increase
of wealth merely means that honest citizens, who find it as hard as ever to earn a living,
are to be splashed with more mud from more motor-cars full of more road hogs, then there is
little wonder if the results of international finance produce a feeling of disillusionment.
But at least it must be admitted that the stuff has to be grown and made before it can be shared,
and that a great advance has been made even in the general distribution of comfort. If we still
find it hard to make a living, that is partly because we have very considerably expanded, during
the course of the last generation or two, our notion of what we mean by a living.

As to the sinister influence alleged to be wielded by international finance in the councils
of diplomacy, it has been shown that war on a great scale terrifies finance and inflicts great
distress on it. To suppose, therefore, that finance is interested in the promotion of such
wars is to suppose that it is a power shortsighted to the point of imbecility. In the case
of wars which finance is believed with some truth to have helped to instigate, we have seen
that it could not have done so if other influences had not helped it. In short, both the occurrence
of the present war, and the circumstances that led up to war in Egypt and South Africa, have
shown how little power finance wields in the realm of foreign politics. In the City if one
suggests that our Foreign Office is swayed by financial influences one is met by incredulous
mockery, probably accompanied by assertions that the Foreign Office is, in fact, neglectful,
to a fault, of British financial interests abroad, and that when it does, as in China, interfere
with financial matters, it is apt to tie the hands of finance, in order to further what it
believes to be the political interests of the country. The formation of the Six Power Group
in China meant that the financial strength of England and France had to be shared, for political
reasons, with powers which had, on purely financial grounds, no claim whatever to participate
in the business of furnishing capital to China. The introduction to the 1898 edition of "Fenn
on the Funds," expresses the view that our Government is ready to protect our traders abroad,
but only helps investors when it suits it to do so. "If," it says, "a barbarian potentate's
subjects rob a British trader we never hesitate to insist upon the payment of liberal compensation,
which we enforce if necessary by a 'punitive expedition,' but if a civilized Government robs
a large number of British investors, the Government does not even, so far as we know, enlist
the help of its diplomatic service. Only when, as in the case of Egypt, there are important
political objects in view, does the State protect those citizens who are creditors of foreign
nations. One or two other countries, notably Germany, set us a good example, with the best
results as far as their investors are concerned." Germany is often thus taken as the example
of the State which gives its financiers the most efficient backing abroad; but even in Germany
finance is, like everything else, the obedient servant of the military and political authorities.
For several years before the present war, the financiers of Berlin were forbidden to engage
in moneylending operations abroad. No doubt the Government saw that the present war was coming,
and so it preferred to keep German money at home. It is true that Germany once shook its mailed
fist with some vigour on behalf of its financial interest when it made, with us, a demonstration
against Venezuela. But it is at least possible that it did so chiefly with a view to the promotion
of the popularity of its navy at home, and to making it easier to get the money for its upkeep
and increase from the taxpayers, already oppressed by their military burden. In Morocco questions
of trade and finance were at the back of the quarrel, but it would not have become acute if
it had not been for the expected political consequences that were feared from the financial
penetration that was being attempted; and as has been already pointed out, the financiers are
generally credited with having persuaded Germany to agree to a settlement on that occasion.

In short, finance, if left to itself, is international and peace-loving. Many financiers are
at the same time ardent patriots, and see in their efforts to enrich themselves and their own
country a means for furthering its political greatness and diplomatic prestige. Man is a jumble
of contradictory crotchets, and it would be difficult to find anywhere a financier who lived,
as they are all commonly supposed to do, purely for the pleasure of amassing wealth. If such
a being could be discovered he would probably be a lavish subscriber to peace societies, and
would show a deep mistrust of diplomatists and politicians.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: Quoted by the Financial News of September 28, 1915.]

CHAPTER VI

THE EVILS OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE

No one who writes of the evils of international finance runs any risk of being "gravelled for
lack of matter." The theme is one that has been copiously developed, in a variety of keys by
all sorts and conditions of composers. Since Philip the Second of Spain published his views
on "financiering and unhallowed practices with bills of exchange," and illustrated them by
repudiating his debts, there has been a chorus of opinion singing the same tune with variations,
and describing the financier as a bloodsucker who makes nothing, and consumes an inordinate
amount of the good things that are made by other people.

It has already been shown that capital, saved by thrifty folk, is essential to industry as
society is at present built and worked; and the financiers are the people who see to the management
of these savings, their collection into the great reservoir of the money market, and their
placing at the disposal of industry. It seems, therefore, that, though not immediately concerned
with the making of anything, the financiers actually do work which is now necessary to the
making of almost everything. Railway managers do not make anything that can be touched or seen,
but the power to move things from the place where they are grown or made, to the place where
they are eaten or otherwise consumed or enjoyed, is so important that industry could not be
carried on on its present scale without them; and that is only another way of saying that,
if it had not been for the railway managers, a large number of us who at present do our best
to enjoy life, could never have been born. Financiers are, if possible, even more necessary,
to the present structure of industry than railway men. If, then, there is this general prejudice
against people who turn an all important wheel in the machinery of modern production, it must
either be based on some popular delusion, or if there is any truth behind it, it must be due
to the fact that the financiers do their work ill, or charge the community too much for it,
or both.

Before we can examine this interesting problem on its merits, we have to get over one nasty
puddle that lies at the beginning of it. Much of the prejudice against financiers is based
on, or connected with, anti-Semitic feeling, that miserable relic of medieval barbarism. No
candid examination of the views current about finance and financiers can shirk the fact that
the common prejudice against Jews is at the back of them; and the absurdity of this prejudice
is a very fair measure of the validity of other current notions on the subject of financiers.
The Jews are, chiefly, and in general, what they have been made by the alleged Christianity
of the so-called Christians among whom they have dwelt. An obvious example of their treatment
in the good old days, is given by Antonio's behaviour to Shylock. Antonio, of whom another
character in the Merchant of Venice says that--

  "A kinder gentleman treads not the earth,"

not only makes no attempt to deny that he has spat on the wicked Shylock, and called him cut-throat
dog, but remarks that he is quite likely to do so again. Such was the behaviour towards Jews
of the princely Venetian merchant, whom Shakespeare was portraying as a model of all the virtues.[5]
Compare also, for a more modern example, Kinglake in a note to Chapter V of "Eothen."

Originally, as we see from the Hebrew scriptures, a hardy race of shepherds, farmers, and warriors,
they were forced into the business of finance by the canonical law which forbade Christians
to lend money at interest, and also by the persecution, robbery and risk of banishment to which
Christian prejudice made them always liable. For these reasons they had to have their belongings
in a form in which they could at any moment be concealed from robbers, or packed up and carried
off if their owners suddenly found themselves told to quit their homes. So they were practically
compelled to traffic in coins and precious metals and jewellery, and in many places all other
trades and professions were expressly forbidden to them. This traffic in coins and metals naturally
led to the business of moneylending and finance, and the centuries of practice, imposed on
them by Christianity, have given them a skill in this trade, which is now the envy of Christians
who have in the meantime found out that there is nothing wicked about moneylending, when it
is honestly done. At the same time these centuries of persecution have given the Jews other
qualities which we have more reason to envy than their skill in finance, such as their strong
family affection and the steadfastness with which they stand by one another in all countries
of the world. The fact of their being scattered over the face of the earth has given them added
strength since finance became international. The great Jew houses have relations and connections
in every business centre, and so their power has been welded, by centuries of racial prejudice,
into a weapon the strength of which it is easy for popular imagination to exaggerate. Christendom
forced the money power into the hands of this persecuted race, and now feels sorry when it
sees that in an ordered and civilized society, in which it is no longer possible to roast an
awkward creditor alive, money power is a formidable force. That a large part of this power
is in the hands of a family party, scattered over all lands in which finance is possible, is
another reason why, as I have already shown, international finance works for peace. The fact
of the existence of the present war, however, shows that the limits of its power are soon reached,
at times when the nations believe that their honour and safety can only be assured by bloodshed.

A large part of the popular prejudice against financiers may thus be ascribed to anti-Semitic
feeling. We are still like the sailor who was found beating a Jew as a protest against the
Crucifixion, and, when told that it had happened nearly two thousand years ago, said that he
had only heard of it that morning.

But, when we have purged our minds of this stupid prejudice, we are still faced by the fact
that international finance is often an unclean business, bad both for the borrower and for
the lender and profitable only to a horde of parasites in the borrowing country, and to those
who handle the loan in the lending country, and get subscriptions to it from investors who
are subsequently sorry that they put their eggs into a basket with no bottom to it. Under ideal
conditions our money is lent by us, through a first-rate and honourable finance house, to a
country which makes honest use of it in developing its resources and increasing its power to
make and grow things. The loan is taken out from England in the shape of goods and services
required for the equipment of a young country, and the interest comes in every year in the
shape of food and raw material that feeds us and helps our industry. Such, it may be asserted
with confidence, is the usual course of events, and must have been so, or England could not
have been so greatly enriched by her moneylending operations abroad, and the productive power
of the world could not have grown as it has, under the top-dressing that our finance and trade
have given it. But though it is thus clear enough that the business must have been on the whole
honestly and soundly worked, there have been some ugly stains on its past, and its recent history
has not been quite free from unsavoury features.

In 1875 public opinion was so deeply stirred by the manner in which English investors and borrowing
states had suffered from the system by which the business of international finance was handled,
that a Select Committee of the House of Commons was "appointed to inquire into the circumstances
attending the making of contracts for Loans with certain Foreign States and also the causes
which have led to the non-payment of the principal moneys and interest due in respect of such
loans." Its report is a very interesting document, well worth the attention of those interested
in the vagaries of human folly. It will astound the reader by reason of the wickedness of the
waste of good capital involved, and at the same time it is a very pleasant proof of the progress
that has been made in finance during the last half century. It is almost incredible that such
things should have happened so lately. It is quite impossible that they could happen now.

In 1867 the Republic of Honduras had been for forty years in default on its portion, amounting
to £27,200, of a loan issued in London in 1825, for the Federal States of Central America.
Nevertheless it contracted with Messrs. B---- and G---- for a loan of £1,000,000 to be issued
in Paris and London. The loan was to be secured on a railway, to be built, or begun, out of
its proceeds, and by a first mortgage on all the domains and forests of the State. The Government
undertook to pay £140,000 annually for fifteen years, to meet interest on and redemption of
the loan. As it had been forty years in default on a loan which only involved a charge of £1632,
it is hard to imagine how the State could have entered into such a liability, or how any issuing
house could have had the temerity to put it before the public.

The public was the only party to the proceedings which showed any sense. Don C---- G----, representative
of the Honduras Government in London, relates in the record of these events that he put before
the Committee, that "the First Honduras Loan in spite of all the advantages which it offered
to subscribers" [issue price, 80, interest 10 per cent., sinking fund of 3 per cent, which
would redeem the whole loan at par within 17 years] "and the high respectability of the house
which managed the operation, was received by the public with perfect indifference, with profound
contempt; and according to the deficient and vague information which reached the Legation,
there were hardly any other subscriptions than one of about £10,000 made by the firm of B----itself,"
Don G----, however, seems to have slightly exaggerated the wisdom of the public; in any case
the Committee found that by June 30, 1868, by some means £48,000 of the loan was held by the
public, and £952,000 was in possession of the representatives of the Honduras Government. On
that day a Mr. L---- undertook to take over the Government's holding at £68 12s. per bond,
and pay current interest. A market was made, brokers were prevailed on to interest their friends
in the security, and in two years' time the bonds were disposed of. The quotation was skilfully
kept above the issue price and in November, 1868, it reached 94.

The story of this loan is complicated by the fact that half of it was at the time alleged to
have been placed in Paris, but it appears, as far as one can disentangle fact from the twisted
skein of the report, that the Paris placing must have resulted much as did the first effort
made in London, and that practically the whole of the bonds there issued came back into the
hands of the representatives of Honduras.

At the end of the proceedings the whole amount of the loan seemed to have been disposed of
in London, £631,000 having been sold to Mr. L---- and passed on by him by the means described
above, £200,000 having been issued to railway contractors, £10,800 having been "drawn before
issue and cancelled," while £49,500 was "issued in exchange for scrip," and £108,500 was taken
on account of commission and expenses.

The actual cash received on account of this loan appears, though the Committee's figures are
difficult to follow, to have come to just over half a million. Out of the half million £16,850
went in cash commission, and £106,000 in interest and sinking fund, leaving about £380,000
for the railway contractors and the Government. On this loan the Committee observes that the
commission paid, of £108,500 bonds, and £16,850 in cash was "greatly in excess of what is usually
charged by contractors for loans."

So far it was only a case of a thoroughly speculative transaction carried through by means
of the usual accompaniments. A defaulting State believed to be possessed of great potential
wealth, thought, or was induced to think, that by building a railway it could tap that wealth.
The whole thing was a pure possibility. If the loan had been successfully placed at the issue
price it would have sufficed to build the first section (fifty-three miles) of railway, and
to leave something over for work in the mahogany forests. It is barely possible that in time
the railway might have enabled the Government to produce enough stuff out of its forests to
meet the charges of the loan. But the possibility was so remote that the terms offered had
to be so liberal that they frightened the public, which happened to be in a sensible mood,
until it was induced to buy by the creation of a market on the Stock Exchange; the employment
of intermediaries on disastrous terms, and finally default, as soon as the loan charge could
no longer be paid out of the proceeds of the loan, completed the tale.

In May, 1869, the Minister for Honduras in Paris, M. H----, "took steps" to issue a loan for
62,250,060 francs, or £2,490,000. Out of it a small sum (about £62,000) was paid to the railway
contractors in London, but little of it seems to have been genuinely placed, since, when the
Franco-German war broke out in July, 1870, M. H---- sent 2,500,000 francs in cash (£100,000),
and 39,000,000 francs in bonds, to Messrs. B---- and G---- in London. Messrs. B---- and others
made an agreement with Mr. C. L----, presumably the gentleman who had taken over and dealt
with the unplaced balance of the First London Loan. By its terms the net price to be paid by
him for each 300 francs (£12) bond issued originally at 225 francs (£9), was 124 francs (not
quite £5). He succeeded in selling bonds enough to realize £408,460, and he, together with
Messrs. B---- and G----, received £51,852 in commission for so doing.

