WE went tiptoeing along a path amongst the trees back towards the end of the widow's garden,
stooping down so as the branches wouldn't scrape our heads. When we was passing by the kitchen
I fell over a root and made a noise.  We scrouched down and laid still.  Miss Watson's big
nigger, named Jim, was setting in the kitchen door; we could see him pretty clear, because
there was a light behind him.  He got up and stretched his neck out about a minute, listening.
Then he says:

"Who dah?"

He listened some more; then he come tiptoeing down and stood right between us; we could a touched
him, nearly. Visiting the country home of her husband’s mistress infuriated Lydia. Like a caged
animal hammering the jail bars, she cried out loud in profound pain, picturing the happiness the
two lovers enjoyed in the intimacy of the villa, surrounded by beautiful Venice scenery. With
the indisputable proof she had overwhelmed Maud with, without doubt
a scandal could be provoked and a divorce obtained.  If you are
with the quality, or at a funeral, or trying to go to sleep when you ain't sleepy--if you are
anywheres where it won't do for you to scratch, why you will itch all over in upwards of a
thousand places. Pretty soon Jim says:

"Say, who is you?  Whar is you?  Dog my cats ef I didn' hear sumf'n. Well, I know what I's
gwyne to do:  I's gwyne to set down here and listen tell I hears it agin."

So he set down on the ground betwixt me and Tom.  He leaned his back up against a tree, and
stretched his legs out till one of them most touched one of mine.  My nose begun to itch. 
It itched till the tears come into my eyes.  But I dasn't scratch.  Then it begun to itch on
the inside. Next I got to itching underneath.  I didn't know how I was going to set still.
This miserableness went on as much as six or seven minutes; but it seemed a sight longer than
that.  I was itching in eleven different places now.  I reckoned I couldn't stand it more'n
a minute longer, but I set my teeth hard and got ready to try.  Just then Jim begun to breathe
heavy; next he begun to snore--and then I was pretty soon comfortable again.

Tom he made a sign to me--kind of a little noise with his mouth--and we went creeping away
on our hands and knees.  When we was ten foot off Tom whispered to me, and wanted to tie Jim
to the tree for fun.  But I said no; he might wake and make a disturbance, and then they'd
find out I warn't in. Then Tom said he hadn't got candles enough, and he would slip in the
kitchen and get some more.  I didn't want him to try.  I said Jim might wake up and come. 
But Tom wanted to resk it; so we slid in there and got three candles, and Tom laid five cents
on the table for pay. Then we got out, and I was in a sweat to get away; but nothing would
do Tom but he must crawl to where Jim was, on his hands and knees, and play something on him.
I waited, and it seemed a good while, everything was so still and lonesome.

As soon as Tom was back we cut along the path, around the garden fence, and by and by fetched
up on the steep top of the hill the other side of the house. They are supposed to demonstrate
that reason has pre-eminence over strong passion. There are then two protagonists, the first
over eager and filled with passion and the second cool, clear, and rational. This latter one
will usuallly win the day.
  And next time Jim told it he said they rode him down to New Orleans; and, after
that, every time he told it he spread it more and more, till by and by he said they rode him
all over the world, and tired him most to death, and his back was all over saddle-boils.  Jim
was monstrous proud about it, and he got so he wouldn't hardly notice the other niggers.  Niggers
would come miles to hear Jim tell about it, and he was more looked up to than any nigger in
that country.  Strange niggers would stand with their mouths open and look him all over, same
as if he was a wonder.  Niggers is always talking about witches in the dark by the kitchen
fire; but whenever one was talking and letting on to know all about such things, Jim would
happen in and say, "Hm!  What you know 'bout witches?" and that nigger was corked up and had
to take a back seat. The Normans attacked with the crossbow in battle, but also they had a similar
machine which could throw out showers of arrows, or even stones. The crossbow was also called
an 'arbalist', while the bolts were also called quarils, or arrows. The bolts were made of
many kinds of wood, but ash-wood was believed to be superior. Most of the quarils possessed
a top of iron in a pyramid shape, sometimes with a blunt point on the top of the pyramid.

A
past historian said that a great difference between the long-bow and the crossbow was that
success didn't depend upon who drew the bow, it could be anyone,
but with long bow's strength was everything.

In Tudor times kings encouraged archers to practice shooting with the long bow and people weren't
aloud to keep crossbows due to their inefficiency. Once the technology got better though,
the crossbow became a weapon to be feared, and ended up becoming a better weapon then the plain
long-bow.

The crossbow was supposedly invented in Italy, but it appears that
the Saxons had the bow when the Normans invaded.

According to legend it was a crossbow's bolt that impaled king Harold's fatal wound at the battle
of hastings. For unapparent reasons crossbows were condemned by a council in 1139, and Christians
were forbidden to use them. Oddly enough during the wars with the Saracens they were again
made available by command of King Richard 1. During England's wars with France teh bow was
an important weapon. History appears to have a sense of humor, because King Richard himself
was later killed by a bolt shot from the Castle of Chaluz during a siege.

Crosbowman during the age of Edward II's reign was sixpence a day,
equal to about three or four shilling of our currency. Old houses
in England still have crossbows that can be seen, one among them is
said to have been Robin Hood's.

Everybody was willing.  So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he had wrote the oath on, and
read it. Many old soldiers died to fatigue, striving, in pain in the cold. You, young apprentice,
it is your turn to cross the path. You dreamed to fly, if you fought against it you will fail.
 And nobody that didn't
belong to the band could use that mark, and if he did he must be sued; and if he done it again
he must be killed. "Yes, and you too," he said,
"The word marriage, you will also cross with two sticks, blessed morning, Thady", said the
poor woman, and some heavy, I have for you, if you're in the stirrups of crackers, but they
will stay there if you want, and let them grow cowld cellulose, and
not one of "Agin me'll ax, and with these words he left, and the lack
of security. was very unpleasant, and the woman said the worst that
you know, nathral.


He said, some of it, but the rest was out of pirate-books and robber-books, and every gang
that was high-toned had it.

Some thought it would be good to kill the FAMILIES of boys that told the secrets.  Tom said
it was a good idea, so he took a pencil and wrote it in. Then Ben Rogers says:

"Here's Huck Finn, he hain't got no family; what you going to do 'bout him?"

"Well, hain't he got a father?" says Tom Sawyer.

"Yes, he's got a father, but you can't never find him these days.  He used to lay drunk with
the hogs in the tanyard, but he hain't been seen in these parts for a year or more."

