"And I am Mr Hall. I didn't expect to find you sleeping here in Gar Wood. But when I find a
strange gentleman asleep in Gar Wood, I put two and two together, and conclude that you must
be Mr Gordon."

"It's the prettiest place in all the world, I think."

"Yes; we are rather proud of Gar Wood,--especially when the deer are browsing on the hill-side
to the left, as they are now. If you don't want to go to sleep again, we'll walk up to the
house. There's the carriage. I can hear the wheels. The girls have gone down to fetch your
friend's bride. Mr Blake is very fond of his bride,--as I dare say you have found out."

Then, as the two walked together to the house, Mr Hall explained that there had been some little
difference in years gone by between old Mr Gordon and himself as to money. "I was very sorry,
but I had to look after myself. You knew nothing about it, I dare say."

"I have heard your name--that's all."

"I need not say anything more about it," said Mr Hall; "only when I heard that you were in
the country, I was very glad to have the opportunity of seeing you. Blake tells me that you
know my friend Whittlestaff."

"I did not know him till yesterday morning."

"Then you know the young lady there; a charming young lady she is. My girls are extremely fond
of Mary Lawrie. I hope we may get them to come over while you are staying here."

"I can only remain one night,--or at the most two, Mr Hall."

"Pooh, pooh! We have other places in the neighbourhood to show you quite as pretty as Gar Wood. For date and warned: the Holy Viaticum, the rogue has the farolón and you ... I throw down
the stairs.

- We'll see!

Pepe, overcoming his anger, he tried to speak calmly and, feeling cold blood Tirso boasted that,
wanted to show equal serenity.

- I was afraid this scene, but I will not dodge it ... When you come to Madrid, and climbing you
entered the railway station Santa Maria, staying there a long time, without any rush to meet your
parents, because it appears that they do not know him, I guessed what would be your fanaticism,
but I never imagined that followed the fight. Then, given your background and seeing hidden
live at home as a criminal, I suspect that had come to Madrid for business that were not yours
... Remember, except the first exit at twilight made the afternoon of the day you came only
after many days you venture out into the Street, after two or three visits to the gentleman who
came to see you, when you know I was already fulfilled your mission. You see I've followed step
by step. I noticed your effort not to speak to us of certain things, because I loathe our ideas
about politics war and trabucaires priests, and, finally, I have
endured your mom to turn tricks and what you intend to quarrel Miller
and Leo ... In short, I know you thoroughly.

You, however, do not know what I'm capable.

- What?

- Yes, it is
not credible, Dad, spontaneously asked some aid, I am the first to
respect their will.

But, understand well, if you bring confessor, per diem ... come on, any nonsense that can scare
you and cause disease in a dangerous crisis, I swear, by my mother and the love of women to whom
I will not treat you as a brother.
 He could give a dinner without champagne, and
thought forty shillings a dozen price enough for port or sherry, or even claret. He kept a
carriage for his four daughters, and did not tell all the world that the horses spent a fair
proportion of their time at the plough. The four daughters had two saddle-horses between them,
and the father had another for his own use. He did not hunt,--and living in that part of Hampshire,
I think he was right. He did shoot after the manner of our forefathers;--would go out, for
instance, with Mr Blake, and perhaps Mr Whittlestaff, and would bring home three pheasants,
four partridges, a hare, and any quantity of rabbits that the cook might have ordered. He was
a man determined on no account to live beyond his means; and was not very anxious to seem to
be rich. He was a man of no strong affections, or peculiarly generous feelings. Those who knew
him, and did not like him, said that he was selfish. They who were partial to him declared
that he never owed a shilling that he could not pay, and that his daughters were very happy
in having such a father. He was a good-looking man, with well-formed features, but one whom
you had to see often before you could remember him. And as I have said before, he "never had
a headache in his life." "When your father wasn't doing quite so well with the bank as his
friends wished, he asked me to do something for him. Well; I didn't see my way."

"I was a boy then, and I heard nothing of my father's business."

"I dare say not; but I cannot help telling you. He thought I was unkind. I thought that he
would go on from one trouble to another;--and he did. He quarrelled with me, and for years
we never spoke. Indeed I never saw him again. But for the sake of old friendship, I am very
glad to meet you." This he said, as he was walking across the hall to the drawing-room.

There Gordon met the young ladies with the clergyman, and had to undergo the necessary introductions.
He thought that he could perceive at once that his story, as it regarded Mary Lawrie, had been
told to all of them. The landlady, leaving idle wool, gave his first hit, that was something complicated,
because it consisted of a thorough restoration of all the damage that made him slowly over
the years.

After the wind to the little thick hair, began to weave a ribbon, which, at not receive the
reinforcement of a swollen cojinillos would not be larger than an egg. Passed Adobe the face
immediately, operation and verified as working quietly, not know the truth of his lies and the
same Don Gil, who was the person who came closest to it during the day. Sometimes I used to
use a paintbrush, but this was only in classic days, and do not top it for now. In these occupations
was, ill-fitting skirts, corsets and bare with no nudity negligent two-thirds of its voluminous
bosom, when a person entered the house, and approaching a quarter of the goddess gave a couple
of taps on the door.

- Who? - Bilbao said in alarm.

- Yo.

- By God, Carrascosa, do not
you, I am ....

But Carrascosa pushed the door open and he would not
stop him inside the scary and honest lady, who left the shave and
wore the dress quickly to come to defend the square.

- Léonie, Leonie,
look it's me, your Gil.

- Don Gil, Don Gil, do not be heavy.

Whenever you come when a grooming. Wait a minute.

Go to the kitchen, I have to talk.

- I also I have to tell you, - said Carrascosa, applying the eye to
the keyhole to prove if he saw something.

Doña Leoncia fixed soon: it wore the brace, got the last fork was
applied two or three pins to his chest, threw a shawl over her shoulders,
and went to the kitchen.

- You know I've been very bothered - Don
Gil said, while the lady, who had approached the stove, was trying
to light coals with straw, - you know I'm very inconvenienced, Leonie,
so people say, and I come to get me out of doubt, because, well, I
have it pierced the throat and I can not pass.

- What?

 "As I had begun with my own, I was obliged to go on to the end.
Miss Forrester--Mr Gordon. Miss Forrester is a young lady whose promotion has been fixed in
the world."

"Mr Hall, how can you do me so much injury as to say that? You take away from me the chance
of changing my mind."

"Yes," said the oldest Miss Hall; "and Mr Gordon the possibility of changing his. Mr Gordon,
what a sad thing it is that Mr Harbottle should never have had an opportunity of seeing his
old parish once again."

"I never knew him," said Gordon.

"But he had been here nearly fifty years. And then to leave the parish without seeing it any
more. It's very sad when you look at it in that light."

"He has never resided here permanently for a quarter of a century," said Mr Blake.

"Off and on in the summer time," said Augusta. "Of course he could not take much of the duty,
because he had a clergyman's throat. I think it a great pity that he should have gone off so
suddenly."

"Miss Forrester won't wish to have his resurgam sung, I warrant you," said Mr Hall.

"I don't know much about resurgams," said the young lady, "but I don't see why the parish shall
not be just as well in Mr Blake's hands." Then the young bride was taken away by the four elder
ladies to dress, and the gentlemen followed them half an hour afterwards.

They were all very kind to him, and sitting after dinner, Mr Hall suggested that Mr Whittlestaff
and Miss Lawrie should be asked over to dine on the next day. John Gordon had already promised
to stay until the third, and had made known his intention of going back to South Africa as
soon as he could arrange matters. "I've got nothing to keep me here," he said, "and as there
is a good deal of money at stake, I should be glad to be there as soon as possible."

"Oh, come! I don't know about your having nothing to keep you here," said Blake. But as to
Mr Hall's proposition regarding the inhabitants of Croker's Lodge, Gordon said nothing. He
could not object to the guests whom a gentleman might ask to his own house; but he thought
it improbable that either Mr Whittlestaff or Mary should come. If he chose to appear and to
bring her with him, it must be his own look-out. At any rate he, Gordon, could say and could
do nothing on such an occasion. He had been betrayed into telling his secret to this garrulous
young parson. What puzzled him most was the uncanny speed, impatience fatal that rushed
over him so many disappointments, so much bitterness, which gave no time to find encouragement and
hope in his mind and heart.

He entered the house, and slowly climbed the stairs of the Eighteenth Century house. Could not
without a sense of respect for those three ladies, for still unknown him, he looked like three perfect
models of virtue. Touched, and opened one of them. Decoration affected him a bit: the historical portraits
of the hall looked at him with her eyes all moth-eaten. Lazarus was afraid. Preceded by Paz,
among those passed through the dim shadows the hall was more mysterious,
and entered the room.

CHAPTER XXIII

# The Inquisition. #

When Coletilla after installed on the second floor, the ladies said the probability that his
nephew was to live with him, Salome was a little pensive, but Mary of the Paz said there was no
problem, provided the young, under the supervision and guidance of his uncle, was to have the
restraint and dignity that the house imposed on its inhabitants.

Lazarus, preceded by Maria de la Paz, entered the room. The first thing that caught his eye was to
Clara, who was sitting next to the devout and sewed his head down,
not daring to look to anyone.

She saw his confusion and his efforts to conceal it. Then he looked around and saw his uncle,
sat respectfully beside Salome, whose real were planted at the eastern end Maria de la Paz. Lazarus
he saw them all motionless as stick figures, all watching him, except Clara, who insisted on bringing
both eyes to work, it was difficult to understand how not kept one
eye with the needle.

Elias Lazarus looked in amazement. Peace with astonishment, Salome
with amazement, all with astonishment and he came to believe it was
a ghost evoked, the fearful nephew Coletilla spectrum. Salome pointed
to a chair with his finger when he had the rings, and Peace said the
registration most contemptuous voice and August:

- Sit down, young
gentleman.

When the young man said "thank you, ma'am," his voice
sounded weak and painful, so much suffering announcing and prostration,
which Clara could not help looking up and feeling him with sudden
interest. I cannot
imagine but that you must have a different idea about women to what we have." Then Mr Blake
sat himself down in an arm-chair at the foot of the bed, and prepared himself to discuss the
opinion which he did not doubt that his friend was about to deliver.

"A very nice young woman indeed," said John Gordon, who was anxious to go to bed.

"Ah, you know,--that's a kind of thing that anybody can say. There is no real friendship in
that. I want to know the true candid opinion of a man who has travelled about the world, and
has been at the diamond-fields. It isn't everybody who has been at the diamond-fields," continued
he, thinking that he might thereby flatter his friend.

"No, not everybody. I suppose a young woman is the same there as here, if she have the same
natural gifts. 

XIX

Dear Pepe: Imagine how upset I'll be: four days since we've seen,
and rabies to quarrel with you.

Silly, silly me, did you think you know I had not find your sorrows to share? The guy you have
said, surely the questions you did and how I answered. I am convinced that all told you. You
can not imagine the grace I made her disinterest. Do you forgive me to bribe your servers? I,
however, will not forgive you your lack of candor. Pretend you're by my side and I'm talking
about very serious. Do not have repeated both over and over again that we Serna loyal? They do not
deserve forgiveness for ignoring I've hidden my love of the obstacles that will cause your brother.
 But
then, of course, Mary Lawrie is not your engaged one. It does make a difference. If it does
turn out that she marries Mr Whittlestaff, I shan't think much of her, I can tell you that.
As it is, as far as looks are concerned, you can't compare her to my Kattie."

"Comparisons are odious," said Gordon.

"Well, yes; when you are sure to get the worst of them. You wouldn't think comparisons odious
if you were going to marry Kattie, and it was my lot to have Mary Lawrie. Well, yes; I don't
mind going to bed now, as you have owned so much as that."

"Of all the fools," said Gordon to himself, as he went to his own chamber,--"of all the fools
who were ever turned out in the world to earn their own bread, he is the most utterly foolish. The troops had not left the house the cavalry progressed,
and national and came to the palace of Liria.

- It's crazy; flee - shouted Pinilla.

- What do we do with it? - Said one, pointing to the corpse of Doctrino.

-
What can we do?

Bonita relic to carry it!

- Do you have any role in your pocket? Let's see, take it off soon!

Pinilla
will carefully recorded.

- No papers, but a pocket.

- So, come -
said Lobo. "That's right," said Mr Blake to the lady of his
love. "We shall now, perhaps, be able to put the thing into a proper groove. I'm always very
lucky in managing such matters. Not that I think that Gordon cares very much about the young
lady, judging from what he says of her." Remaking a bit, thought that his uncle was such a favor, which the person Elijah momentarily
won her affection. But he found out he greeted Bozmediano very politely, repeating that he
was free and could retire to his home.

"I don't suppose you ever would, because you are not one of those sort of young ladies. I don't
suppose that Mary Lawrie likes it herself; and therefore I'd break the match off in a moment
if I could. That's what I call good-natured."

