'Thou hast slain thyself, soldier, by that blow rather than him,' said Probus. 'Thine own faith
has torments in reserve for such as thee.'

'Thou too!' cried the enraged soldier; and he would have repeated the blow upon the head of
the offender, but that the descending weapon was suddenly struck upwards, and out of the hand
of him who wielded it, by another belonging to the same legion, who guarded Probus, saying
as he did so,

'Hold, Mutius! it is not Roman to strike the bound and defenceless, Christians though they
be. Raise that fallen old man, and apply such restoratives as the place affords.' And then,
with other directions to those who were subordinate to him, he moved on, bearing Probus with him.

Others who had arrived before him, were standing in the presence of Varus, who was questioning
them as to their faith in Christ. On the left hand of the Prefect, and on the right of those
who were examined, stood a small altar surmounted by a statue of Jupiter, to which the Christians
were required to sacrifice. But few words sufficed for the examination of such as were brought
up. Upon being inquired of touching their faith, there was no waiting for witnesses, but as
soon as the question was put, the arraigned person acknowledged at once his name and religion.
He was then required to sacrifice and renounce his faith, and forthwith he should be dismissed
in safety, and with honor. This the Christian refusing steadfastly to do, sentence of death
was instantly pronounced against him, and he was remanded to the prisons to await the time
of punishment.

Probus was now placed before the Prefect. When it was seen throughout the crowd which again
filled the house, who it was that was arraigned for examination, there were visible signs of
satisfaction all around, that he, who was in a manner the ringleader of the sect, was about
to meet with his deserts. As the eye of Varus fell upon Probus, and he too became aware who
it was that stood at his tribunal, he bent courteously towards him, and saluted him with respect.

'Christian,' said he, 'I sincerely grieve to see thee in such a pass. Ever since I met thee
in the shop of the learned Publius have I conceived an esteem for thee, and would now gladly
rescue thee from the danger that overhangs. Bethink thee now--thou art of too much account
to die as these others. A better fate should be thine; and I will stand thy friend.'

'Were what thou sayest true,' replied Probus, 'which I am slow to admit--for nobler, purer
souls never lived on earth than have but now left this spot where I stand--it would but be
a reason of greater force to me, why I should lose my life sooner than renounce my faith. What
sacrifice can be too holy for the altar of the God whom I serve? Would to God I were more worthy
than I am to be offered up.'

'Verily,' said Varus, 'you are a wonderful people. The more fitted you are to live happily
to yourselves, and honorably to others, the readier you are to die. I behold in you, Probus,
qualities that must make you useful here in Rome. Rome needs such as thyself. Say but the word,
and thou art safe.'

'Could I in truth, Varus, possess the qualities thou imputest to me, were I ready on the moment
to abandon what I have so long professed to honor and believe--abjuring, for the sake of a
few years more of life, a faith which I have planted in so many other hearts, and which has
already brought them into near neighborhood of a cruel death? Couldst thou thyself afterward
think of me but as of a traitor and a coward?'

'I never,' said Varus, 'could do otherwise than esteem one, who, however late, at length declared
himself the friend of Rome; and, more than others should I esteem him, who, from being an enemy,
became a friend. Even the Emperor, Probus, desires thy safety. It is at his instance that I
press thee.'

Probus bent his head and remained silent. The people, taking it as a sign of acquiescence,
cried out, many of them, 'See, he will sacrifice!'

Varus too said, 'It needs not that the outward sign be made. We will dispense with it. The
inward consent, Probus, shall suffice. Soldiers!--'

'Hold, hold, Varus!' cried Probus, rousing himself from a momentary forgetfulness. 'Think not,
O Prefect, so meanly of me! What have I said or done to induce such belief? I was but oppressed
for a moment with grief and shame that I should be chosen out from among all the Christians
in Rome as one whom soft words and bribes and the hope of life could seduce from Christ. Cease,
Varus, then; these words are vain. Such as I have been, I am, and shall be to the end--a Christian!'

'To the rack with the Christian then!' shouted many voices from the crowd.

Varus enforced silence.

'Probus,' said he, as order was restored, 'I shall still hope the best for thee. Thou art of
different stuff from him whom we first had before us, and leisure for reflection may bring
thee to another mind. I shall not therefore condemn thee either to the rack or to death. Soldiers,
bear him to the prisons at the Fabrician bridge.'

Whereupon he was led from the tribunal, and conducted by a guard to the place of his confinement.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fate of Probus we now regard as sealed. In what manner he will finally be disposed of it
is vain to conjecture, so various are the ways, each one more ingenious in cruelty than another,
in which Christians are made to suffer and die. Standing as he does, as virtually the head
of the Christian community, we can anticipate for him a death only of more refined barbarity.

Felix too, we learn, is confined in the same prison: and with him all the other principal Christians
of Rome.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have visited Probus in his confinement. You do not remember, Fausta, probably you never
saw, the prison at the Fabrician bridge. It seems a city itself, so vast is it, and of so many
parts, running upwards in walls and towers to a dizzy height, and downwards to unknown depths,
where it spreads out in dungeons never visited by the light of day. In this prison, now crowded
with the Christians, did we seek our friend. We were at once, upon making known our want, shown
to the cell in which he was confined.

We found him, as we entered, seated and bending over a volume which he was reading, aided by
the faint light afforded by a lamp which his jailer had furnished him. He received us with
cheerfulness, and at his side on the single block of stone which the cell provided for its
inmates, we sat and long conversed. I expressed my astonishment that the favor of a lamp had
been allowed him. 'It is not in accordance,' I said, 'with the usages of this place.'

'You will be still more amazed,' he replied, 'when I tell you through whose agency I enjoy it.'

'You must inform us,' we said, 'for we cannot guess.'

'Isaac's;' he replied. 'At least I can think of no other to whom the description given me by
the jailer corresponds. He told me upon bringing it to me, that a kind-hearted old man, a Jew,
as he believed him, had made inquiry about me, and had entreated earnestly for all such privileges
and favors, as the customs of the place would allow. He has even procured me the blessing of
this friendly light--and what is more yet and which fills me with astonishment--has sent me
this volume, which is the true light. Can it be that Isaac has done all this, who surely never
has seemed to regard me with much favor.'

'Never doubt that it is he,' said Julia; 'he has two natures, sometimes one is seen, sometimes
the other--his Jew nature, and his human nature. His human heart is soft as a woman's or a
child's. One so full of the spirit of love I have never known. At times in his speech, you
would think him a man bloody and severe as Aurelian himself; but in his deeds he is almost
more than a Christian.'

'As the true circumcision,' said Probus, 'is that of the heart, and as he is a Jew who is one
inwardly, so is he only a Christian who does the deeds of one and has the heart of one. And
he who does those deeds, and has that heart--what matters it by what name he is called? Isaac
is a Christian, in the only important sense of the word--and, alas! that it should be so, more
than many a one who bears the name. But does this make Christ to be of none effect? Not so.
The natural light, which lightens every man who cometh into the world will, here and there,
in every place, and in every age, bring forth those who shall show themselves in the perfection
of their virtues to be of the very lineage of Heaven--true heirs of its glory. Isaac is such
a one. But what then? For one such, made by the light of nature, the gospel gives us thousands.
But how is it, Piso, in the city? Are the wolves still abroad?'

'They are. The people have themselves turned informers, soldiers, and almost executioners.
However large may be the proportion of the friendly or the neutral in the city, they dare not
show themselves. The mob of those devoted to Aurelian constitutes now the true sovereignty
of Rome--the streets are theirs--the courts are theirs--and anon the games will be theirs.'

'I am given to understand,' said Probus, 'that to-morrow I suffer; yet have I received from
the Prefect no warning to that effect. It is the judgment of my keeper.'

'I have heard the same,' I answered, 'but I know not with what truth.'

'It can matter little to me,' he replied, 'when the hour shall come, whether to-morrow or to-night.'

'It cannot,' said Julia. 'Furnished with the whole armor of the gospel, it will be an easy
thing for you to encounter death.'

'It will, lady, believe me. I have many times fought with enemies of a more fearful front.
The enemies of the soul are those whom the Christian most dreads. Death is but the foe of life.
So the Christian may but live to virtue and God, he can easily make his account with death.
It is not the pain of dying, nor the manner of it, nor any doubts or speculations about the
life to come, which, at an hour like this, intrude upon the Christian's thoughts.'

'And what then,' asked Julia, as Probus paused and fell back into himself, 'is it that fills
and agitates the mind? for at such a moment it can scarcely possess itself in perfect peace.'

'It is this,' replied Probus. 'Am I worthy? Have I wrought well my appointed task? Have I kept
the faith? And is God my friend and Jesus my Saviour? These are the thoughts that engross and
fill the mind. It is busy with the past--and with itself. It has no thoughts to spare upon
suffering and death--it has no doubts or fears to remove concerning immortality. The future
life, to me, stands out in the same certainty as the present. Death is but the moment which
connects the two. You say well, that at such an hour as this the mind can scarce possess itself
in perfect peace. Yet is it agitated by nothing that resembles fear. It is the agitation that
must necessarily have place in the mind of one to whom a great trust has been committed for
a long series of years, at that moment when he comes to surrender it up to him from whom it
was received. I have lived many years. Ten thousand opportunities of doing good to myself and
others have been set before me. The world has been a wide field of action and labor, where
I have been required to sow and till against the future harvest. Must I not experience solicitude
about the acts and the thoughts of so long a career? I may often have erred; I must often have
stood idly by the wayside; I must many times have been neglectful, and forgetful, and wilful;
I must often have sinned; and it is not all the expected glory of another life, nor all the
honor of dying in the cause of Christ, nor all the triumph of a martyr's fate, that can or
ought to stifle and overlay such thoughts. Still I am happy. Happy, not because I am in my
own view worthy or complete, but because through Jesus Christ I am taught, in God, to see a
Father. I know that in him I shall find both a just and a merciful judge; and in him who was
tempted even as we are, who was of our nature and exposed to our trials, shall I find an advocate
and intercessor such as the soul needs. So that, if anxious as he who is human and fallible
must ever be, I am nevertheless happy and contented. My voyage is ended; the ocean of life
is crossed, and I stand by the shore with joyful expectations of the word that shall bid me
land and enter into the haven of my rest.'

As Probus ended these words, a low and deep murmur or distant rumbling as of thunder caught
our ears, which, as we listened, suddenly increased to a terrific roar of lions, as it were
directly under our feet. We instinctively sprang from where we sat, but were quieted at once
by Probus:

'There is no danger,' said he; 'they are not within our apartment, nor very near us. They are
a company of Rome's executioners, kept in subterranean dungeons, and fed with prisoners whom
her mercy consigns to them. Sounds more horrid yet have met my ears, and may yours. Yet I hope
not.'

But while he yet spoke, the distant shrieks of those who were thrust toward the den, into which
from a high ledge they were to be plunged headlong, were borne to us, accompanied by the oaths
and lashes of such as drove them, but which were immediately drowned by the louder roaring
of the imprisoned beasts as they fell upon and fought for their prey. We sat mute and trembling
with horror, till those sounds at length ceased to reverberate through the aisles and arches
of the building.

'O Rome!' cried Probus, when they had died away, 'how art thou drunk with blood! Crazed by
ambition, drunk with blood, drowned in sin, hardened as a millstone against all who come to
thee for good, how shalt thou be redeemed? where is the power to save thee?'

'It is in thee!' said Julia. 'It is thy blood, Probus, and that of these multitudes who suffer
with thee, that shall have power to redeem Rome and the world. The blood of Jesus, first shed,
startled the world in its slumbers of sin and death. Thine is needed now to sound another alarm,
and rouse it yet once more. And even again and again may the same sacrifice be to be offered up.'

'True, lady,' said Probus; 'it is so. And it is of that I should think. Those for whom I die
should fill my thoughts, rather than any concern for my own happiness. If I might but be the
instrument, by my death, of opening the eyes of this great people to their errors and their
guilt, I should meet death with gratitude and joy.'

With this and such like conversation, Fausta, did we fill up a long interview with Probus.
As we rose from our seats to take leave of him, not doubting that we then saw him and spoke
to him for the last time, he yielded to the force of nature and wept. But this was but for
a moment. Quickly restored to himself--if indeed when shedding those tears he were not more
truly himself--he bade us farewell, saying with firmness and cheerfulness as he did so,

'Notwithstanding, Piso, the darkness of this hour and of all the outward prospect, it is bright
within. Farewell!--to meet as I trust in Heaven!'

We returned to the Coelian.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I parted from Probus, at the close of this interview, it was in the belief that I should
never see him more. But I was once again in his dungeon, and then heard from him what I will
now repeat to you. It was thus.

Not long after we had withdrawn from his cell on our first visit, Probus, as was his wont when
alone, sat reading by that dim and imperfect light which the jailer had provided him. He presently
closed the volume and laid it away. While he then sat musing, and thinking of the morrow, and
of the fate which then probably awaited him, the door of his cell slowly opened. He looked,
expecting to see his usual visitant the jailer, but it was a form very different from his.
The door closed, and the figure advanced to where Probus sat. The gown in which it was enveloped
was then let fall, and the Prefect stood before the Christian.

'Varus!' said Probus. 'Do I see aright?'

'It is Varus,' replied the Prefect. 'And your friend.'

'I would, now at least, be at friendship with all the world,' responded Probus.

'Yet,' said Varus, 'your friends must be few, that you should be left in this place of horror,
alone, to meet your fate.'

'I have no friend powerful enough, on earth at least, to cope with the omnipotence of Aurelian,'
replied Probus.

'Thy friends, Christian, are more, and more potent than thou dreamest of. As I said to thee
before, even Aurelian esteems thee.'

'Strange, that, if he esteems me, as thou sayest, he should thrust me within the lions' den,
with prospect of no escape but into their jaws. And can I suppose that his esteem is worth
much to me who crowds his prisons with those who are nearest to me, reserving them there for
a death the most cruel and abhorred?'

'He may esteem thee, Probus, and not thy faith. 'Tis so with me. I like not thy faith, but
truly do I say it, I like thee, and would fain serve and save thee. Nay, 'tis thy firmness
and thy zeal in the cause thou hast espoused that wins me. I honor those virtues. But, Probus,
in thee they are dangerous ones. The same qualities in a worthier cause would make thee great.
That which thou hast linked thyself to, Christian, is a downward and a dying one. Its doom
is sealed. The word of Aurelian is gone forth, and, before the Ides, the blood of every Christian
in Rome shall flow--and not in Rome only, but throughout the empire. The forces are now disposing
over the whole of this vast realm, which, at a sign from the great Head, shall fall upon this
miserable people, and their very name shall vanish from the earth. It is vain to contend. It
is but the struggling of a man with the will and the arm of Jove--'

'Varus!--' Probus began.

'Nay,' said the Prefect, 'listen first. This faith of thine, Christian, which can thus easily
be destroyed, cannot be that divine and holy thing thou deemest it. So judges Porphyrius, and
all of highest mark here in Rome. It is not to be thought of one moment as possible, that what
a God made known to man for truth, he should afterward leave defenceless, to be trodden to
the dust, and its ministers and disciples persecuted, tormented, and exterminated by human
force. Christian, thou hast been deceived--and all thy fellows are in the like delusion. Do
thou then save both thyself and them. It is in thy power to stop all this effusion of blood,
and restore unity and peace to an empire now torn and bleeding in every part.'

'And how, Varus--seeing thou wouldst that I should hear all--how shall it be done?'

'Embrace, Probus, the faith of Rome--the faith of thy father, venerable for piety as for years--the
faith of centuries, and of millions of our great progenitors and thou art safe, and all thine
are safe.'

Probus was silent.

'Aurelian bids me say,' continued the Prefect, 'that doing this, there is not a wish of thy
heart, for thyself, or for those who are dear to thee, but it shall be granted. Wealth, more
than miser ever craved, office and place lower but little than Aurelian's own, shall be thine--'

'Varus! if there is within thee the least touch of humanity, cease! Thy words have sunk into
these dead walls as far as into me; yet have they entered far enough to have wounded the soul
through and through. Not, Varus, though to all thou hast said and promised thou shouldst add
Rome itself and the empire, and still to that the subject kingdoms of the East and West, with
their treasures, and the world itself, would I prove false to myself, my faith, and my God.
Nor canst thou think me base enough for such a deed. This is no great virtue in me, Varus.
I hold it not such; nor may you. Go through the secret chambers of these prisons with the same
rich bribe upon thy tongue, and not one so fallen wouldst thou find that he would hear thee
through as I have done. Varus, thou knowest not what a Christian is! Thou canst not conceive
how little a thing life is in his regard set by the side of truth. I grieve that ever I should
have been so esteemed by thee as to warrant the proffers thou hast made. This injures more
and deeper than these bonds, or than all thine array of engines or of beasts.'

'Be not the fool and madman,' said the Prefect, 'to cast away from thee the mercy I have brought.
Except on the terms I have now named, I say there is hope neither for thee, nor for one of
this faith in Rome, how ever high their name or rank.'

'That can make no change in my resolve, Varus.'

'Consider, Probus, well. As by thy renunciation thou couldst save thyself, I now tell thee
that the lives of those whom thou holdest nearest, hang also upon thy word. Assent to what
I have offered, and Piso and Julia live! Reject it, and they die!'

Varus paused; but Probus spoke not. He went on.

'Christian, are not these dear to thee? Demetrius too, and Felix? Where are the mercies of
thy boasted faith, if thy heart is left thus hard? Truly thou mightest as well have lived and
died a Pagan.'

'Again I say, Varus, thou knowest not what a Christian is. We put truth before life; and if
by but a word that should deny the truth in Christ, or any jot or tittle of it, I could save
the life of Piso, Julia, Felix, Demetrius, nay, and all in Rome who hold this faith, my tongue
should be torn from my mouth before that word should be spoken. And so wouldst thou find every
Christian here in Rome. Why then urge me more? Did Macer hear thee?'

'I hold thee, Probus, a wiser man than he. All Rome knew him mad. Cast not away thy life. Live,
and tomorrow's sun shall see thee First in Rome!'

'Varus! why is this urgency? Think me not a fool and blind. Thou knowest, and Fronto and Aurelian
know, that one apostate would weigh more for your bad cause than a thousand headless trunks;
and so with cruel and insulting craft you weave your snares and pile to Heaven your golden
bribes. Begone, Varus, and say to Aurelian, if in truth he sent thee on thy shameful errand,
that, in the Fabrician prison, in the same dungeon where he cast Probus the Christian, there
still lives Probus the Roman, who reveres what he once revered and loved, truth, and whom his
bribes cannot turn from his integrity.'

'Die then, idiot, in thy integrity! Thou hast thrown scorn upon one, who has power and the
will to pay it back in a coin it may little please thee to take it in. If there be one torment,
Galilean, sharper than another, it shall be thine tomorrow; and for one moment that Macer passed
upon my irons, there shall be hours for thee. Not till the flesh be peeled inch by inch from
thy bones, and thy vitals look through thy ribs, and thy brain boil in its hot case, and each
particular nerve be stretched till it break, shall thy life be suffered to depart. Then, what
the tormentors shall have left, the dogs of the streets shall devour. Now, Christian, let us
see if thy God, beholding thy distress, will pity and deliver thee.'

Saying these words, his countenance transformed by passion to that of a demon, he turned and
left the cell.

Never, Fausta, I feel assured, did Aurelian commission Varus with such an errand. Fallen though
he be, he has not yet fallen to that lowest deep. Varus doubtless hoped to prevail over Probus
by his base proposals, and by such triumph raise his fortunes yet higher with Aurelian. It
was a game worth playing--so he judged, and perhaps wisely--and worth a risk. For doubtless
one apostate of the rank of Probus would have been of more avail to them, as Probus said to
him, than a thousand slain. For nothing do the judges so weary themselves, and exhaust their
powers of persuasion, as to induce the Christians who are brought before them to renounce their
faith. So desirous are they of this, that they have caused, in many instances, those who were
no Christians to be presented at their tribunals, who have then, after being threatened with
torture and death, renounced a faith which they never professed. Once and again has this farce
been acted before the Roman people. Their real triumphs of this sort have as yet been very
few; and the sensation which they produced was swallowed up and lost in the glory--in the eyes
even of the strangers who are in Rome--which has crowned us in the steadfast courage with which
our people have remained quietly in their homes, throughout all this dreadful preparation,
and then, when the hour of trial drew nigh, and they were placed at the bar of the judge, and
were accused of their religion, confessed the charge, boasted of it, and then took their way
to the prison, from which, they well knew, death only would deliver them.

       *       *       *       *       *

That, Fausta, which we have long feared and looked for, has come to pass, and Probus, our more
than friend, our benefactor, and almost our parent, is, by the Emperor, condemned to death;
not, as from the words of Varus it might be supposed, to the same torments as those to which
Macer was made subject; but to be thrown to the beasts in the Flavian, a death more merciful
than that, but yet full of horror. How is it that, in the Roman, mercy seems dead, and the
human nature, which he received from the gods, changed to that of the most savage beast!

Livia has been with us; and here, with us, would she now gladly remain. It is impossible, she
says, for us to conceive the height of the frenzy to which Aurelian is now wrought up against
the Christians. In his impatience, he can scarce restrain himself from setting his Legions
in the neighboring camp at once to the work of slaughter. But he is, strange as it may seem,
in this held back and calmed by the more bloody-minded, but yet more politic, Fronto. Fronto
would have the work thoroughly accomplished; and that it may be so, he adheres to a certain
system of order and apparent moderation, from which Aurelian would willingly break away and
at once flood the streets of Rome in a new deluge of blood. Livia is now miserable and sad,
as she was, but a few months ago, gay and happy. At the palace, she tells us, she hears no
sounds but the harsh and grating voice of Fronto, or the smooth and silvery tones of Varus.
As soon, she says, as Aurelian shall have departed for the East, shall she dwell either with
us, or fly to the quiet retreat of Zenobia, at Tibur.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day appointed for the death of Probus has arrived, and never did the sun shine upon a fairer
one in Rome. It seems as if some high festival were come, for all Rome is afoot. Heralds parade
the streets, proclaiming the death of Probus, Felix, and other Christians, in the Flavian,
at the hour of noon. At the corner of every street, and at all the public places, the name
of "Probus the Christian, condemned to the beasts," meets the eye. Long before the time of
the sacrifice had come, the avenues leading to the theatre, and all the neighborhood of it,
were crowded with the excited thousands of those who desired to witness the spectacle. There
was little of beauty, wealth, fashion, or nobility in Rome that was not represented in the
dense multitude that filled the seats of the boundless amphitheatre. Probus had said to me,
at my last interview with him, 'Piso, you may think it a weakness in me, but I would that one
at least, whose faith is mine, and whose heart beats as mine, might be with me at the final
hour. I would, at that hour, meet one eye that can return the glance of friendship. It will
be a source of strength to me, and I know not how much I may need it.' I readily promised what
he asked, though, as you may believe, Fausta, I would willingly have been spared the trial.
So that making part of that tide pouring toward the centre, I found myself borne along at the
appointed hour to the scene of suffering and death.

As I was about to pass beneath the arched-way which leads to the winding passages within, I
heard myself saluted by a well-known voice, and, turning to the quarter whence it came, beheld
Isaac, but without his pack, and in a costume so different from that which he usually wears,
that at first I doubted the report of my eyes. But the sound of his voice, as he again addressed
me, assured me it could be no other than he.

'Did I not tell thee, Piso,' said he, 'that, when the Christian was in his straits, there thou
wouldst see the Jew, looking on, and taking his sport? This is for Probus the very end I looked
for. And how should it be otherwise? Is he to live and prosper, who aims at the life of that
to which God has given being and authority? Shall he flourish in pride and glory who hath helped
to pull down what God built up? Not so, Piso. 'Tis no wonder that the Christians are now in
this plight. It could be no otherwise. And in every corner of this huge fabric wilt thou behold
some of my tribe looking on upon this sight, or helping at the sacrifice. Yet, as thou knowest,
I am not among them. There is no hope for Probus, Piso?'

'None, Isaac. All Rome could not save him.'

'Truly,' rejoined the Jew, 'he is in the lion's den. Yet as the prophet Daniel was delivered,
so may it be to him. God is over all.'

'God is, indeed, over all,' I said; 'but he leaves us with our natural passions, affections,
and reason, to work out our own way through the world. We are the better for it.'

'Doubtless,' said Isaac. 'Yet at times, when we look not for it, and from a quarter we dream
not of, deliverance comes. So was it to Abraham, when he thought that by his own hand Isaac
his son must be slain. But why to a Christian should I speak of these? Dost thou witness the
sacrifice, Piso?'

'Yes, at the earnest entreaty of Probus himself.'

'I, too, shall be there. We shall both then see what shall come to pass.'

So saying, he moved away toward the lower vaults, where are the cages of the beasts, and I
passed on and ascended the flight of steps leading to that part of the interior where it is
the custom of Aurelian to sit. The Emperor was not as yet arrived, but the amphitheatre, in
every part of it, was already filled with its countless thousands. All were seated idly conversing,
or gazing about as at the ordinary sports of the place. The hum of so many voices struck the
ear like the distant roar of the ocean. How few of those thousands--not one perhaps--knew for
what it was that Probus and his companions were now about to suffer a most cruel and abhorred
death! They knew that their name was Christian, and that Christian was of the same meaning
as enemy of the gods and of the empire; but what it was which made the Christian so willing
to die, why it was he was so ready to come to that place of horror and give up his body to
the beasts--this they knew not. It was to them a riddle they could not read. And they sat and
looked on with the same vacant unconcern, or with the same expectation of pleasure, as if they
were to witness the destruction of murderers and assassins. This would not have been so, had
that class of the citizens of Rome, or any of them, been present, who, regarding us with favor,
and hoping that somewhat might yet come of our religion advantageous to the world, maintain
a neutral position. These were not there; owing, both to their disinclination to witness scenes
so brutalizing, and to apprehensions lest they should be betrayed into words or acts of sympathy,
that might lead to their being confounded with the obnoxious tribe, and exposed to the like
dangers. All, therefore, within the embrace of those wide-spreading walls were of one heart
and one mind.

While I sat waiting the coming of the Emperor, and surrounded by those whom I knew not nor
had ever seen, one who occupied a part of the same seat, accompanied by his wife and daughters,
said to me,

''Tis to be hoped, sir, that so terrible an example as this will have its effect in deterring
others from joining this dangerous superstition, and not only that, but strike so wholesome
a terror into those who already profess it, that they shall at once abandon it, and so the
general massacre of them not be necessary; which, indeed, I should be loth to witness in the
streets of Rome.'

'If you knew,' I replied, 'for what it is these people are condemned to such sufferings, you
would not, I am sure, express yourself in that manner. You know, I may presume, only what common
report has brought to your ears.'

'Nothing else, I admit,' he replied. 'My affairs confine me from morning till night. I am a
secretary, sir, in the office of the public mint. I have no time to inform myself of the exact
truth of any thing but columns of figures. I am not afraid to say there is not a better accountant
within the walls of Rome. But as for other things, especially as to the truth in matters of
this sort, I know nothing, and can learn nothing. I follow on as the world leads.'

'I dare say,' I replied, 'you have spoken the truth. And every one here present, were he to
speak, would make very much the same declaration. So here are eighty thousand citizens of Rome
assembled to witness the destruction of men, of whose crime they know nothing, yet rejoicing
in their death as if they were murderers or robbers! Were you charged with a false enumeration
of your columns, would not you hold it basest injustice to suffer punishment before pains were
taken to learn the exact truth in the case? But are you not acting the same unjust and cruel
part--with all who are here--in looking on and approving the destruction of these men, about
whose offence you know nothing, and have taken no pains to inquire?'

'By the gods!' exclaimed his wife, who seemed the sharper spirit of the two, 'I believe we
have a Christian here! But however that may be, we should be prettily set to work, whenever
some entertainment is in prospect, to puzzle ourselves about the right and the wrong in the
matter. If we are to believe you, sir, whenever a poor wretch is to be thrown to the beasts,
before we can be in at the sport we must settle the question--under the law I suppose--whether
the condemnation be just or not! Ha! ha! Our life were in that case most light and agreeable!
The Prefect himself would not have before him a more engaging task. Gods! Cornelia dear, see
what a pair of eyes!'

'Where, mother?'

'There! in that old man's head. They burn and twinkle like coals of fire. I should think he
must be a Christian.'

I was not sorry that a new object had attracted the attention of this lady of the secretary;
and looking where she pointed, I saw Isaac planted below us and near the arena. At the same
moment the long peal of trumpets, and the shouts of the people without, gave note of the approach
and entrance of the Emperor. In a moment more, with his swift step, he entered the amphitheatre,
and strode to the place set apart for him, the whole multitude rising and saluting him with
a burst of welcome that might have been heard beyond the walls of Rome. The Emperor acknowledged
the salutation by rising from his seat and lifting the crown from his head. He was instantly
seated again, and at a sign from him the herald made proclamation of the entertainments which
were to follow. He who was named as the first to suffer was Probus.

When I heard his name pronounced, with the punishment which awaited him, my resolution to remain
forsook me, and I turned to rush from the theatre. But my recollection of Probus's earnest
entreaties that I would be there, restrained me and I returned to my seat. I considered, that
as I would attend the dying bed of a friend, so I was clearly bound to remain where I was,
and wait for the last moments of this my more than Christian friend; and the circumstance that
his death was to be shocking and harrowing to the friendly heart was not enough to absolve
me from the heavy obligation. I therefore kept my place, and awaited with patience the event.

I had waited not long when, from beneath that extremity of the theatre where I was sitting,
Probus was led forth and conducted to the centre of the arena, where was a short pillar to
which it was customary to bind the sufferers. Probus, as he entered, seemed rather like one
who came to witness what was there than to be himself the victim, so free was his step, so
erect his form. In his face there might indeed be seen an expression, that could only dwell
on the countenance of one whose spirit was already gone beyond the earth, and holding converse
with things unseen. There is always much of this in the serene, uplifted face of this remarkable
man; but it was now there written in lines so bold and deep, that there could have been few
in that vast assembly but must have been impressed by it, as never before by aught human. It
must have been this, which brought so deep a silence upon that great multitude--not the mere
fact that an individual was about to be torn by lions--that is an almost daily pastime. For
it was so, that when he first made his appearance, and as he moved toward the centre, turned
and looked round upon the crowded seats rising to the heavens, the people neither moved nor
spoke, but kept their eyes fastened upon him as by some spell which they could not break.

When he had reached the pillar, and he who had conducted him was about to bind him to it, it
was plain, by what at that distance we could observe, that Probus was entreating him to desist
and leave him at liberty; in which he at length succeeded, for that person returned, leaving
him alone and unbound. O sight of misery!--he who for the humblest there present would have
performed any office of love, by which the least good should redound to them, left alone and
defenceless, they looking on and scarcely pitying his cruel fate!

The people, who had watched in silence, and with the interest of those who wait for their entertainment,
were both amazed and vexed, at what now appeared to be the dulness and stupidity of the beast.
When however he moved not from his place, but seemed as if he were indeed about to fall into
a quiet sleep, those who occupied the lower seats began both to cry out to him and shake at
him their caps, and toss about their arms in the hope to rouse him. But it was all in vain;
and at the command of the Emperor he was driven back to his den.

Again a door of the vivaria was thrown open, and another of equal size, but of a more alert
and rapid step, broke forth, and, as if delighted with his sudden liberty and the ample range,
coursed round and round the arena, wholly regardless both of the people and of Probus, intent
only as it seemed upon his own amusement. And when at length he discovered Probus standing
in his place, it was but to bound toward him as in frolic, and then wheel away in pursuit of
a pleasure he esteemed more highly than the satisfying of his hunger.

At this, the people were not a little astonished, and many who were near me hesitated not to
say, "that there might be some design of the gods in this." Others said plainly, but not with
raised voices, "An omen! an omen!" At the same time Isaac turned and looked at me with an expression
of countenance which I could not interpret. Aurelian meanwhile exhibited many signs of impatience;
and when it was evident the animal could not be wrought up, either by the cries of the people,
or of the keepers, to any act of violence, he too was taken away. But when a third had been
let loose, and with no better effect, nay, with less--for he, when he had at length approached
Probus, fawned upon him, and laid himself at his feet--the people, superstitious as you know
beyond any others, now cried out aloud, "An omen! an omen!" and made the sign that Probus should
be spared and removed.

Aurelian himself seemed almost of the same mind, and I can hardly doubt would have ordered
him to be released, but that Fronto at that moment approached him, and by a few of those words,
which, coming from him, are received by Aurelian as messages from Heaven, put within him a
new and different mind; for rising quickly from his seat he ordered the keeper of the vivaria
to be brought before him. When he appeared below upon the sands, Aurelian cried out to him,

'Why, knave, dost thou weary out our patience thus--letting forth beasts already over-fed?
Do thus again, and thou thyself shall be thrown to them. Art thou too a Christian?'

'Great Emperor,' replied the keeper, 'than those I have now let loose, there are not larger
nor fiercer in the imperial dens, and since the sixth hour of yesterday they have tasted nor
food nor drink. Why they have thus put off their nature 'tis hard to guess, unless the general
cry be taken for the truth, "that the gods have touched them."

Aurelian was again seen to waver, when a voice from the benches cried out,

'It is, O Emperor, but another Christian device! Forget not the voice from the temple! The
Christians, who claim powers over demons, bidding them go and come at pleasure, may well be
thought capable to change, by the magic imputed to them, the nature of a beast.'

'I doubt not,' said the Emperor, 'but it is so. Slave! throw up now the doors of all thy vaults,
and let us see whether both lions and tigers be not too much for this new necromancy. If it
be the gods who interpose, they can shut the mouths of thousands as of one.

At those cruel words, the doors of the vivaria were at once flung open, and an hundred of their
fierce tenants, maddened both by hunger and the goads that had been applied, rushed forth,
and in the fury with which in a single mass they fell upon Probus--then kneeling upon the sands--and
burying him beneath them, no one could behold his fate, nor, when that dark troop separated
and ran howling about the arena in search of other victims, could the eye discover the least
vestige of that holy man.---- I then fled from the theatre as one who flies from that which
is worse than death.

Felix was next offered up, as I have learned, and after him more than fourscore of the Christians
of Rome.

Rome continues the same scene of violence, cruelty and blood. Each moment are the miserable
Christians dragged through the streets either to the tribunals of the judges, or thence, having
received their doom, to the prisons.

Seeing, Fausta, that the Emperor is resolved that we shall not be among the sufferers, and
that he is also resolved upon the total destruction of all within the walls of Rome, from which
purpose no human power can now divert him, we feel ourselves no longer bound to this spot,
and are determined to withdraw from it, either to Tibur or else to you. Were there any office
of protection or humanity, which it were in our power to perform toward the accused or the
condemned, you may believe that we should remain fixed to the post of duty. But the fearful
sweep which is making, and yet to be made, of every living soul in Rome, leaves nothing for
us to do but to stand idle and horror-struck witnesses of sufferings and wrongs, which we can
do nothing to avert or relieve. Portia shares our sorrows, and earnestly entreats us to depart,
consenting herself to accompany us.

       *       *       *       *       *

After seeing Zenobia at Tibur, and conversing with her and Livia, whom I found there, we have
resolved upon Palmyra, and already have I engaged a vessel bound to Berytus. A brief interval
will alone be needful for our preparations. Portia goes with us.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the midst of these preparations, news is brought us by Milo that Aurelian, hastened by accounts
of disturbances in the army, has suddenly started for Thrace. But I see not that this can interfere
with our movements, unless indeed.... What can mean this sudden uproar in the streets?--and
now within the house itself.... My fears are true....

       *       *       *       *       *

Fausta, I am a prisoner in the hands of Fronto. I now write in chains, and Julia stands at
my side bound also. I have obtained with difficulty this grace, to seal my letter, and bid
you farewell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus were Piso and Julia at length in the grasp of the cruel and relentless Fronto. Aurelian's
sudden departure from Rome placed the whole conduct of the enterprise he had undertaken in
the hands of Varus and the priest, who were left by the Emperor with full powers to carry on
and complete the work which he had begun. It was his purpose however, so soon as the difficulties
in the army should be composed, himself immediately to return, and remain till the task were
ended--the great duty done. But, as many causes might conspire to prevent this, they were clothed
with sovereign authority to do all that the welfare of the city and the defence and security
of religion might require. I will not charge Aurelian with an unnecessary absence at this juncture,
that so he might turn over to his tools a work, at which his own humanity and conscience, hardened
as they were, revolted--or rather that they, voluntarily, and moved only by their own superstitious
and malignant minds might then be free to do what they might feel safe in believing would be
an acceptable service to their great master. I will still believe, that, had he intended the
destruction of Piso and Julia, he would, with that courage which is natural to him, have fearlessly
and unshrinkingly done the deed himself. I will rather suppose that his ministers, without
warrant from him, and prompted by their own hate alone, ventured upon that dark attempt, trusting,
when it should have once been accomplished, easily to obtain the pardon of him, who, however
he might affect or feel displeasure for a moment, would secretly applaud and thank them for
the deed.

However this may be, Aurelian suddenly departed from Rome, and Fronto and Varus filled his
place; and their first act of authority was the seizure of Piso and the Princess. At Tibur
we knew nothing of these events till they were passed; we caring not to hear of the daily horrors
that were acted in the city, and feeling as secure of the safety of Piso and Julia as of our own.

It was on a gloomy winter evening when they were borne away from their home upon the Coelian
to the dark vaults beneath the Temple of the Sun, Fronto's own province. But here again let
Piso speak for himself, as I find recorded in the fragment of a letter.

       *       *       *       *       *

* * * The darkness of the night scarce permitted me to see, he says, whither we were borne,
but when the guard stopped and required us to alight from the carriage in which we had been
placed, I perceived that we were at the steps of the temple--victims therefore in his own regions
of a man, as much more savage than Aurelian, as he than a beast of the forest. We were denied
the happiness of being confined in the same place, but were thrust into separate dungeons,
divided by walls of solid rock. Here, when wearied out by watching, I fell asleep. How long
this lasted I cannot tell; I was wakened by the withdrawing of the bolts of my door. One, bearing
a dim light, slowly opening the door, entered. Forgetting my condition I essayed to rise, but
my heavy chains bound me to the floor. Soon as the noise of my motion caught the ear of the
person who had entered, he said,

'So; all is safe. I am not thy keeper, sir Piso, but 'tis my province to keep the keeper--that
is--visit thee every hour to see that thou art here. Yet, by the gods! if you Christians have
that power of magic, which is commonly reported of you, I see not of what use it were to watch
you thus. How is it with thee, most noble Piso?'

'That is of little moment; but tell me, if there is anything human in thee, where is the Princess
Julia, and what is her fate?'

'Be not too much concerned,' he replied. 'She is safe, I warrant you. None but Fronto deals
with her.'

'Fronto!' I could only say.

'Yes, Fronto. Fear not, he is an honorable man and a holy priest.'

'Fronto!' I was about to add more, but held my peace; knowing well that what I might say could
avail nothing for us, and might be turned against us. I only asked, 'why there was such delay
in examining and condemning us?'

'That is a question truly,' he replied; 'but not so easy to be answered. Few know the reason,
that I can say. But what is there in the heart of Pronto that is kept from Curio? Are thy chains
easy, Piso?'

'I would that they might be lengthened. Here am I bound to the floor without so much as the
power to stand upright. This is useless suffering.'

'Twas so ordered by Fronto; but then if there is one in Rome who can take a liberty with him,
I know well who he is. So hold thou the lamp, Piso, and I will ease thee;' and, like one accustomed
to the art, he soon struck apart the chain, and again uniting it left me room, both to stand
and move.

'There,' said he, as he took again the lamp, 'for one who hates a Christian as he does death,
that's a merciful deed. But I can tell thee one thing, that it will not ease thee long.'

'That I can believe. But why, once more, is there this delay?'

'I know not, Piso, whether I should tell thee, but as I doubt not Fronto would, were he here,
I surely may do the same, for if there are two men in Rome, Piso, whose humors are the same
and jump together, I and Fronto are they. There is a dispute then, noble Piso, between Varus
and Fronto about the lady Julia--' and without heeding my cries the wretch turned and left
the vault, closing after him the heavy door.

How many days, in the torture of a suspense and ignorance worse than death, I lay here, I cannot
tell. Curio came as often as he said to see that all was safe, but there was little said by
either; he would examine my chain and then depart. On the night--the last night I passed in
that agony--preceding my examination by Varus and Fronto, I was disturbed from my slumbers
by the entrance of Curio. He advanced with as it seemed to me an unusually cautious step, and
I rose expecting some communication of an uncommon nature. But what was my amazement, as the
light fell upon the face of him who bore it, to see not Curio but Isaac. His finger was on
his lips, while in his hand he held the implements necessary for sawing apart my chains.

'Piso!' said he in a whispered tone, 'thou art now free,--I could not save Probus, but I can
save thee--horses fleet as the winds await thee and the Princess beyond the walls, and at the
Tiber's mouth a vessel takes you to Berytus. Curio lies drunk or dead, it matters little which,
in a neighboring vault.' And he set down the lamp and seized my chain. The strange devotion
of this man moved me; and, were it but to reward his love, I could almost have slipped my bonds.
But other thoughts prevailed.

'Isaac, you have risked your life and that of your household in this attempt; and sorry am
I that I can pay thee only with my thanks. I cannot fly.'

'Piso! thou surely art not mad? Why shouldst thou stay in the hands of these pagan butchers--'

'Were this, Isaac, but the private rage of Fronto, gladly would I go with thee--more gladly
would I give Julia to thy care. But it is not so. It is, as thou knowest, for our faith that
we are here and thus; and shall we shrink from what Probus bore?'

'Piso, believe me--'tis not for thy faith alone that thou art here, but for thy riches, and
thy wife--'

'Isaac! thou hast been deceived. Sooner would they throw themselves into a lion's den for sport,
than brave the wrath of Aurelian for such a crime. Thou hast been deceived.'

'I have it,' replied the Jew, 'from the mouth of the miscreant Curio, who has told me of fierce
disputes, overheard by him, between Varus and Pronto concerning the lady Julia.'

'Their dispute has been, doubtless, whether she too should be destroyed; for to Fronto is well
known the constant love which Aurelian still bears her. Curio is not always right.'

'And is this my answer, Piso?' said Isaac. 'And, if I cannot prevail with thee, shall I not
still see thy wife? Over her perchance--'

'No, Isaac; it would be of no avail. Her answer would be the same as mine.'

'Nevertheless, Piso, I believe that what I have heard and surmised is so. Fronto and Varus,
who have played with the great Aurelian as a toyman with his images, may carry even this.'

'Were it so, I put my trust in God, and to him commend myself and Julia. For this our faith
are we ready to bear all that man can devise or do.'

Seeing that further argument was vain, Isaac, with eyes that overflowed as any woman's, embraced
me and left the cell.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the day which followed the visit of Isaac was I placed before Fronto and Varus.

It was in the great room of the temple that the Prefect and the Priest awaited their victims.
It was dimly illuminated, so that the remoter parts were lost in thick darkness. So far as
the eye could penetrate it, a crowd of faces could be discerned in the gloom, of those who
were there to witness the scene. All, whom my sight could separate from the darkness, were
of the Roman priesthood, or friends of Fronto. Not that others were excluded--it was broad
day, and the act was a public one, and authorized by the imperial edict--but that no announcement
of it had been made; and by previous concert the place had been filled with the priests and
subordinate ministers of the Roman temples. I knew therefore that not a friendly eye or arm
was there. Whatever it might please those cruel judges to inflict upon myself or Julia,--there
was none to remonstrate or interpose. With what emotions, when I had first been placed before
those judges, did I await the coming of Julia, from whom I had now been so long parted! Fervently
did I pray that the mercy of Fronto would first doom her, that she might be sure of at least
one sympathising and pitying heart.

On the right of the Prefect, upon a raised platform, were set the various instruments of torture
and death, each attended by its half naked minister.

I had not stood long, when upon the other side of the room the noise of the dividing crowd
told me that Julia was entering, and in a moment more she was standing at a little distance
from me, and opposite Fronto--I being opposite the Prefect. Our eyes met once--and no more.
As I could have desired, Fronto first addressed her.

'Woman! thou standest here charged with impiety and denial of the gods of Rome; in other words,
with being a follower of Christ the Nazarene. That the charge is true, witnesses stand here
ready to affirm. Dost thou deny the charge? Then will we prove its truth.'

'I deny it not,' responded Julia, 'but confess it. Witnesses are not needed. The Christian
witnesses for himself.'

'Dost thou know the penalty that waits on such confession?'

'I know it, but do not fear it.'

'But for thee to die so, woman, is of ill example to all in Rome. We would rather change thee.
We would not have thee die the enemy of the gods, of Rome, and of thyself. I ask thee then
to renounce thy vain impiety!'

Julia answered not.

'I require thee, Christian, to renounce Christ!'

Still Julia made no reply.

'Know you not, woman, I have power to force from thee that, which thou wilt not say willingly?'

'Thou hast no such power, Priest. Thou wert else God.'

'Thy tender frame cannot endure the torture of those engines. It were better spared such suffering.'

'I would gladly be spared that suffering,' said Julia; 'but not at the expense of truth.'

'Think not that I will relent. Those irons shall rack and rend thee in every bone and joint,
except thou dost renounce that foul impostor, whose curse now lies heavy upon Rome and the world.'

'Weary me not, Priest, with vain importunity. I am a Christian, and a Christian will I die.'

'Prepare then the rack!' cried Fronto, his passions rising; 'that is the medicine for obstinacy
such as this. Now bind her to it.'

Hearing that, I wildly exclaimed,

'Priest! thou dar'st not do it for thy life! Touch but the hair of her head, and thy life shall
answer it. Aurelian's word is pledged, and thou dar'st not break it.'

'Aurelian is far enough from here,' replied the priest. 'But were he where I am, thou wouldst
see the same game. I am Aurelian now.'

'Is this then thy commission, had from Aurelian?'

'That matters not, young Piso. 'Tis enough for thee to know that Fronto rules in Rome. No more!
Hold now thy peace! Where an Empress has sued in vain, there is no room for words from thee.
Slaves! bind her, I say! To the rack with her!'

At that I sprang madly forward, thinking only of her rescue from those murderous fangs, but
was at the same instant drawn violently back both by my chains and the arms of those who guarded
me. The tormentors descended from their engines to fulfil the commands of Fronto, and, laying
hold of Julia, bore her, without an opposing word, or look, or motion, toward their instruments
of death. And they were already binding her limbs to the accursed wheels, while Fronto and
Varus both drew nigh to gloat over her agonies, when a distant sound, as of the ocean lashed
by winds, broke upon the ears of all within that hell. Even the tormentors paused in their
work, and looked at each other and at Fronto, as if asking what it should mean.

The silence of death fell upon the crowd--every ear strained to catch the still growing sound
and interpret it.

''Tis but the winter wind!' cried Fronto. 'On, cowards, with your work!'

But, ere the words had left his lips, or those demons could wind the wheels of their engine,
the appalling tumult of a multitude rushing toward the temple became too fearfully distinct
for even Pronto or Varus to pretend to doubt its meaning. But why it was, or for what, none
could guess; only upon the terror-struck forms of both the Prefect and the Priest might be
read apprehensions of hostility that from some quarter was aiming at themselves. Fronto's voice
was again heard:

'Bar the great doors of the temple! let not the work of the gods be profanely violated.'

But the words were too late; for, while he was yet speaking, O Fausta, how shall I paint my
agony of joy! there was heard from the street and from the porch of the temple itself the shouts
of as it were ten thousand voices,

"Tacitus is Emperor!" "Long live the good Tacitus!"

Freedom and life were in those cries. The crowds from the streets swept in at the doors like
an advancing torrent. Varus and Fronto, followed by their myrmidons, vanished through secret
doors in the walls behind them, and among the first to greet me and strike the chains from
my limbs were Isaac and Demetrius.

'And where is the lady Julia?' cried Isaac.

'There!'

He flew to the platform, and, turning back the wheels, Julia was once more in my arms.

'And now,' I cried, 'what means it all? Am I awake or do I dream?'

'You are awake,' replied Demetrius. 'The tyrant is dead! and the senate and people all cry
out for Tacitus.'

I now looked about me. The mob of priests was fled, and around me I beheld a thousand well-known
faces of those who already had been released from their dungeons. Christians, and the friends
of Christians, now filled the temple.

'We were led hither,' continued Demetrius, 'by your fast friend and the friend I believe of
all, Isaac. None but he, and those to whom he gave the tidings, knew where the place of your
confinement was; nor was the day of your trial publicly proclaimed, although we found the temple
open. But for him we should have been, I fear, too late. But no sooner was the news of Aurelian's
assassination spread through the city, than Isaac roused your friends and led the way.'

As Demetrius ceased, the name of "Tacitus Emperor," resounded again throughout the temple,
and the crowds then making for the streets, about which they careered mad with joy, we were
at liberty to depart; and accompanied by Isaac and Demetrius, were soon beneath our own roof
upon the Coelian.

With what joy then, in our accustomed place of prayer, did we pour forth our thanksgivings
to the Overruling Providence, who had not only rescued ourselves from the very jaws of death,
but had wrought out this great deliverance of his whole people! Never before, Fausta, was Christianity
in such peril; never was there a man, who, like Aurelian, united to a native cruelty that could
behold the shedding of blood with the same indifference as the flowing of water, a zeal for
the gods and a love of country that amounted quite to a superstitious madness. Had not death
interposed--judging as man--no power could have stayed that arm that was sweeping us from the
face of the earth.

The prisons have all been thrown open, and their multitudes again returned to their homes.
The streets and squares of the capital resound with the joyful acclamations of the people.
Our churches are once more unbarred, and with the voice of music and of prayer, our people
testify before Heaven their gratitude for this infinite mercy.

The suddenness of this transition, from utter hopelessness and blank despair to this fulness
of peace, and these transports of joy, is almost too much for the frame to bear. Tears and
smiles are upon every face. We know not whether to weep or laugh; and many, as if their reason
were gone, both laugh and cry, utter prayers and jests in the same breath.

       *       *       *       *       *

Soon as we found ourselves quietly in possession again of our own home, surrounded by our own
household, Portia sitting with us and sharing our felicity, the same feeling impelled us at
once to seek Livia and Zenobia. The Empress was, as we had already learned, at Tibur, whither
she had but this morning fled, upon finding all interference of no avail, hoping--but how vainly--that
possibly her mother, than whose name in Rome none was greater, save Aurelian's--might prevail,
where the words had fallen but upon deaf ears and stony hearts. Our chariot bore us quickly
beyond the walls, and toward the palace of the Queen. As we reached the entrance, Zenobia at
the same moment, accompanied by Livia, Nicomachus, and her usual train, was mounting her horse
for Rome. Our meeting I need not describe. That day and evening were consecrated to love and
friendship; and many days did we pass there in the midst of satisfactions of double worth,
I suppose, from the brief interval which separated them from the agonies which but so lately
we had endured.

All that we have as yet learned of Aurelian is this, that he has met the fate that has waited
upon so many of the masters of the world. His own soldiers have revenged themselves upon him.
Going forth, as it is reported, to quell a sudden disturbance in the camp, he was set upon
by a band of desperate men--made so by threats of punishment which he ever keeps--and fell
pierced by a hundred swords. When more exact accounts arrive, you shall hear again.

Tacitus, who has long been the idol of the Senate, and of the best part of the people of Rome,
famed, as you know, for his wisdom and his mild virtues, distinguished too for his immense
wealth and the elegance of his tastes, was at once, on the news of Aurelian's death, proclaimed
Emperor; not so much, however, by any formal act of the Senate, as by the unanimous will of
all--senators and people. For, in order that the chance of peace may be the greater, the Senate,
before any formal and public decree shall be passed, will wait the pleasure of the army. But,
in the meantime, he is as truly Emperor as was Aurelian--and was, indeed, at the first moment
the news of the assassination arrived. His opinions concerning the Christians also, being well
known, the proclamation of his name as Augustus, was at the same time one of safety and deliverance
to our whole community. No name in Rome could have struck such terror into the hearts of Varus
and Fronto, as that of Tacitus--"Tacitus Emperor!"

After our happy sojourn at Tibur, and we had once more regained our home upon the Coelian,
we were not long, as you may believe, in seeking the street Janus, and the dwelling of Isaac.
He was happily within, and greeted us with heartiest welcome.

'Welcome, most noble Piso,' he cried, 'to the street Janus!'

'And,' I added, 'to the house of a poverty-pinched Jew! This resembles it indeed!'

'Ah! are you there, Piso? Well, well, if I have seemed poor, thou knowest why it has been,
and for what. Welcome too, Princess! enter, I pray you, and when you shall be seated I shall
at once show you what you have come to see, I doubt not--my assortment of diamonds. Ah! the
news of your arrival has spread, and they are before me--here, Piso, is the woman of the desert,
and the young Ishmael, and here, lady, are two dark-eyed nymphs of Ecbatana. Children, this
is the beautiful Princess of Palmyra, whose name you have heard more than once.'

It was a pretty little circle, Fausta, as the eye need behold; and gathered together here by
how strange circumstances! The very sun of peace and joy seemed breaking from the countenance
of Isaac. He caressed first one and then another, nor did he know how to leave off kissing
and praising them.

When we had thus sat, and made ourselves known all around to each other, Julia said to Isaac,
'that she should hope often to see him and them in the same way; but however often it might
be, and at whatever other times, she begged, that annually, on the Ides of January, she with
Piso might be admitted to his house and board, to keep with them all a feast of grateful recollection.
Whatever it is that makes the present hour so happy to us all, we owe, Isaac, to you.'

'Lady! to the providence of the God of Abraham!'

'In you, Isaac, I behold his providence.'

'Lady, it shall be as you say--on the Ides of January, will we, as the years go round, call
up to our minds these dark and bloody times, and give thanks for the great redemption. Were
Probus but with you, and to be with you, Piso, your cup were full. And he had been here, but
for the voice of one, who just as the third lion had been uncaged, fixed again the wavering
mind of Aurelian, who then, madman-like, set on him that forest-full of beasts. At that moment,
I found it, Piso, discreetest to depart.'

'And was your hand in that too, Isaac? Were those lions of your training? and that knave's
lies of your telling?'

'Verily thou mayest say so.'

'But was that the part of a Jew?'

'No,' said Julia, 'it was only the part of Isaac.'

'Probus,' said Isaac, 'was the friend of Piso and Julia, and therefore he was mine. If now
you ask how I love you so, I can only say, I do not know. We are riddles to ourselves. When
I first saw thee, Piso, I fancied thee, and the fancy hath held till now. Now, where love is,
there is power--high as heaven, deep as hell. Where there is the will, the arm is strong and
the wits clear. Mountains of difficulty and seas of danger sink into mole-hills and shallow
pools. Besides, Piso, there is no virtue in Rome but gold will buy it, and, as thou knowest,
in that I am not wanting. Any slave like Curio, or he of the Flavian, may be had for a basket-full
of oboli. With these two clues, thou canst thread the labyrinth.'

Though our affairs, Fausta, now put on so smiling a face, we do not relinquish the thought
of visiting you; and with the earliest relenting of the winter, so that a Mediterranean voyage
will be both safe and pleasant, shall we turn our steps toward Palmyra.

Demetrius greatly misses his brother, But what he has lost, you have gained.

What at this moment is the great wonder in Rome is this--a letter has come from the Legions
in Thrace in terms most dutiful and respectful toward the Senate, deploring the death of Aurelian,
and desiring that they will place him in the number of the gods, and appoint his successor.
This is all that was wanted to confirm us in our peace. Now we may indeed hail Tacitus as Augustus
and Emperor. Farewell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Piso has mentioned with brevity the death of Aurelian, and the manner of it as first received
at Rome. I will here add to it the account which soon became current in the capital, and which
to this time remains without contradiction.

Already has the name of Menestheus occurred in these memoirs. He was one of the secretaries
of the Emperor, always near him and much in his confidence. This seemed strange to those who
knew both, for Menestheus did not possess those qualities which Aurelian esteemed. He was selfish,
covetous, and fawning; his spirit and manner those of a slave to such as were above him--those
of a tyrant to such as were below him. His affection for the Emperor, of which he made great
display, was only for what it would bring to him; and his fidelity to his duties which was
exemplary, grew out of no principle of integrity, but was merely a part of that self-seeking
policy that was the rule of his life. His office put him in the way to amass riches, and for
that reason there was not one perhaps of all the servants of the Emperor who performed with
more exactness the affairs entrusted to him. He had many times incurred the displeasure of
Aurelian, and his just rebuke for acts of rapacity and extortion, by which, never the empire,
but his own fortune was profited; but, so deep and raging was his thirst of gold, that it had
no other effect than to restrain for a season a passion which was destined, in its further
indulgence, to destroy both master and servant.

Aurelian had scarcely arrived at the camp without the walls of Byzantium, and was engaged in
the final arrangements of the army previous to the departure for Syria--oppressed and often
irritated by the variety and weight of the duties which claimed his care--when, about the hour
of noon, as he was sitting in his tent, he was informed, "that one from Rome with pressing
business craved to be heard of the Emperor."

He was ordered to approach.

'And why,' said Aurelian, as the stranger entered, have you sped in such haste from Rome to
seek me?'

'Great Cæsar, I have come for justice!'

'Is not justice well administered in the courts of Rome, that thou must pursue me here, even
to the gates of Byzantium?'

'None can complain,' replied the Roman, 'that justice hath been withheld from the humblest
since the reign of Aurelian--'

'How then,' interrupted Aurelian, 'how is it that thou comest hither? Quick! let us know thy
matter?'

'To have held back,' the man replied, 'till the return of the army from its present expedition,
and the law could be enforced, were to me more than ruin.'

'What, knave, has the army to do with thee, or thou with it? Thy matter, quick, I say.'

'Great Cæsar,' rejoined the other, 'I am the builder of this tent. And from my workshops came
all these various furnishings, of the true and full value of all of which I have been defrauded--'

'By whom?'

'By one near the Emperor, Menestheus the noble secretary.'

'Menestheus! Make out the case, and, by the great god of Light, he shall answer it. Be it but
a farthing he hath wronged thee of, and he shall answer it. Menestheus?'

'Yes, great Emperor, Menestheus. It was thus. When the work he spoke for was done and fairly
delivered to his hands, agreeing to the value of an obolus and the measure of a hair, with
the strict commands he gave, what does he when he sees it, but fall into a rage and swear that
'tis not so--that the stuff is poor, the fashion mean and beggarly, the art slight and imperfect,
and that the half of what I charged, which was five hundred aurelians, was all that I should
have, with which, if I were not content and lisped but a syllable of blame, a dungeon for my
home were the least I might expect; and if my knavery reached the ear of Aurelian, from which,
if I hearkened to him, it should be his care to keep it, my life were of less value than a
fly's. Knowing well the power of the man, I took the sum he proffered, hoping to make such
composition with my creditors, that I might still pursue my trade, for, O Emperor, this was
my first work, and being young and just venturing forth, I was dependent upon others. But,
with the half price I was allowed to charge, and was paid, I cannot reimburse them. My name
is gone and I am ruined.'

'The half of five hundred--say you--was that the sum, and all the sum he paid you?'

'It was. And there are here with me those that will attest it.'

'It needs not; for I myself know that from the treasury five hundred aurelians were drawn,
and said, by him, for this work--which well suits me--to have been duly paid. Let but this
be proved, and his life is the least that it shall cost him. But it must be well proved. Let
us now have thy witnesses.'

Menestheus at this point, ignorant of the charge then making against him, entered the tent.
Appalled by the apparition of the injured man, and grasping at a glance the truth, all power
of concealment was gone, conscious guilt was written in the color and in every line and feature
of the face.

'Menestheus!' said Aurelian, 'knowest thou this man?'

'He is Virro, an artisan of Rome;' replied the trembling slave.

'And what think you makes him here?'

The Secretary was silent.

'He has come, Menestheus, well stored with proofs, beside those which I can furnish, of thy
guilt. Shall the witnesses be heard? Here they stand.'

Menestheus replied not. The very faculty of speech had left the miserable man.

'How is it,' then said Aurelian in his fiercest tones, 'how is it that again, for these paltry
gains, already rolling in wealth--thou wilt defile thy own soul, and bring public shame upon
me too, and Rome! Away to thy tent! and put in order thine own affairs and mine. Thou hast
lived too long. Soldiers, let him be strongly guarded.--Let Virro now receive his just dues.
Men call me cruel, and well I fear they may; but unjust, rapacious, never, as I believe. Whom
have I wronged, whom oppressed? The poor of Rome, at least, cannot complain of Aurelian. Is
it not so, sirrah?'

'Rome,' he replied, 'rejoices in the reign of Aurelian. His love of justice and of the gods,
give him a place in every heart.'

Whether Aurelian would have carried into execution the threat, which in a moment of passion
he had passionately uttered, none can tell. All that can be said is this, that he rarely threatened
but he kept his word. This the secretary knew, and knew therefore, that another day he might
never see. His cunning and his wit now stood him in good stead. A doomed man--he was a desperate
man, and no act then seemed to him a crime, by which his doom might be averted. Retiring to
his tent to fulfil the commands of the Emperor, he was there left alone, the tent being guarded
without; and then as his brain labored in the invention of some device, by which he might yet
escape the impending death, and save a life which--his good name being utterly blasted and
gone, could have been but a prolonged shame--he conceived and hatched a plan, in its ingenuity,
its wickedness, and atrocious baseness, of a piece with his whole character and life. In the
handwriting of the Emperor, which he could perfectly imitate, he drew up a list of some of
the chief officers of the army--by him condemned to death on the following day. This paper,
as he was at about the eleventh hour led guarded to his place of imprisonment, he dropt at
the tent door of one whose name was on it.

It fell into the intended hands; and soon as the friendly night had come the bloody scroll
was borne from tent to tent, stirring up to vengeance the designated victims. No suspicion
of fraud ever crossed their minds; but amazed at a thirst of blood so insatiable, and which,
without cause assigned, could deliver over to the axe his best and most trusted friends, Carus,
Probus, Mucapor--they doubted whether in truth his reason were not gone, and deemed it no crime,
but their highest duty, to save themselves by the sacrifice of one who was no longer to be
held a man.

After the noon of this day the army had made a short but quick march to Heraclea. Aurelian--the
tents being pitched--the watch set--the soldiers, weary with their march, asleep--himself tired
with the day's duty--sat with folded arms, having just ungirded and thrown from him his sword.
His last attendant was then dismissed, who, passing from the tent door, encountered the conspirators
as they rushed in, and was by them hewn to the ground. Aurelian, at that sound, sprang to his
feet. But alone, with the swords of twenty of his bravest generals at his breast--and what
could he do? One fell at the first sweep of his arm; but, ere he could recover himself--the
twenty seemed to have sheathed their weapons in his body. Still he fought, but not a word did
he utter till the dagger of Mucapor, raised aloft, was plunged into his breast, with the words,

'This Aurelia sends!'

'Mucapor!' he then exclaimed as he sank to the ground, 'canst thou stab Aurelian?' Then turning
toward the others, who stood looking upon their work, he said, 'Why, soldiers and friends,
is this? Hold, Mucapor, leave in thy sword, lest life go too quick; I would speak a word--'
and he seized the wrist of Mucapor and held it even then with an iron grasp. He then added,
'Romans! you have been deceived! You are all my friends, and have ever been. Never more than
now--' His voice fell.

Probus then reaching forward, cried out, unfolding at the same moment the bloody list,

'See here, tyrant! are these thy friends?'

The eyes of Aurelian, waking up at those words with all the intentness of life, sought the
fatal scroll and sharply scanned it--then closing again, he at the same moment drew out the
sword of Mucapor, saying as he did so,

''Tis the hand of Menestheus--not mine. You have been deceived.' With that he fell backwards
and expired.

Those miserable men then looking upon one another--the truth flashed upon them; and they knew
that to save the life of that mean and abject spirit they there stood together murderers of
the benefactor of many of them--the friend of all--of a General and Emperor whom, with all
his faults, Rome would mourn as one who had crowned with a new glory her Seven Hills. How did
they then accuse themselves for their unreasonable haste--their blind credulity! How did they
bewail the cruel blows which had thus deprived them of one, whom they greatly feared indeed,
but whom also they greatly loved! above all, one whom, as their master in that art which in
every age has claimed the admiration of the world, they looked up to as a very god! Some reproached
themselves; some, others; some threw themselves upon the body of Aurelian in the wildness of
their remorse and grief; and all swore vengeance upon the miscreant who had betrayed them.

Thus perished the great Aurelian--for great he truly was, as the world has ever estimated greatness.
When the news of his assassination reached Rome, the first sensation was that of escape, relief,
deliverance; with the Christians, and all who favored them, though not of their faith, it was
undissembled joy. The streets presented the appearances which accompany an occasion of general
rejoicing. Life seemed all at once more secure. Another bloody tyrant was dead, by the violence
which he had meted out to so many others, and they were glad. But with another part of the
Roman people it was far otherwise. They lamented him as the greatest soldier Rome had known
since Cæsar; as the restorer of the empire; as the stern but needful reformer of a corrupt
and degenerate age; as one who to the army had been more than another Vespasian; who, as a
prince, if sometimes severe, was always just, generous, and magnanimous. These were they, who,
caring more for the dead than for the living, will remember concerning them only that which
is good. They recounted his virtues and his claims to admiration--which were unquestionable
and great--and forgot, as if they had never been, his deeds of cruelty, and the wide and wanton
slaughter of thousands and hundreds of thousands, which will ever stamp him as one destitute
of humanity, and whose almost only title to the name of man was, that he was in the shape of
one. For how can the possession of a few of those captivating qualities, which so commonly
accompany the possession of great power, atone for the rivers of blood which flowed wherever
he wound his way?

       *       *       *       *       *

I have now ended what I proposed to myself. I have arranged and connected some of the letters
of Lucius Manlius Piso, having selected chiefly those which related to the affairs of the Christians
and their sufferings during the last days of Aurelian's reign. Those days were happily few.
And when they were passed, I deemed that never again, so fast did the world appear to grow
wiser and better could the same horrors be repeated. But it was not so; and under Diocletian
I beheld that work in a manner perfected, which Aurelian did but begin. I have outlived the
horrors of those times, and at length, under the powerful protection of the great Constantine,
behold this much-persecuted faith secure. In this I sincerely rejoice, for it is Christianity
alone, of all the religions of the world, to which may be safely intrusted the destinies of
mankind.

END.