And the parting on both sides convinced him how truly kind the good woman had been to his boy,
and how she had completely won his heart.

"Don't be offended, Mrs Blewcome," he added; "but here's a trifle for you, it'll help you to
paint up your caravans.  I dare say they'll be none the worse for a fresh bit of colour."

"Thank you, sir, thank you," said Mrs Blewcome, with open eyes and hands.  "I'm not a-going
to be proud;" and she didn't look as if she were, as she slipped Alan's ill-spared ten-pound
note into her pocket.

"Good-bye, sir.  Good-bye, my dear boy!  Here's a ticket for the show, sir, if I may make so
bold; we've got some werry fine beastesses, sir. Good-bye, dear!"  And Mrs Blewcome curtsied
herself from the room, with moist eyes and a heart genuinely saddened, for Harry had grown
very dear to her during their two years' strange acquaintance.

CHAPTER XIX.

AT WILTON ONCE MORE.

"Vengeance" still--Driving to Wilton--At the farm--In the churchyard--The grammar-school--Wilton
left again--Life's business.

Shortly after the departure of Mrs Blewcome, a large parcel was brought into the room, containing
clothes for Harry; and how glad he was when, in the course of about half-an-hour, he stood
fully arrayed before the looking-glass in his father's bedroom at the hotel.  Once more he
was in his rightful position; he was with his father, an outcast no more; no longer dependent
on the doubtful fortunes of two show-people.  But the revengeful feeling had not been stricken
down within him.  On the contrary, he only thought to himself, that now more possible than
ever was revenge; now more than ever would there be a chance of his meeting with Egerton. 
You see, he was such a mere child still, and knew so little of the world, that he thought everything
was easy.

His father soon noticed the change in his tone whenever Egerton's name was mentioned--the flushing
cheeks, the eyes that lit up with anger; and though he himself was far, very far, from palliating
Egerton's conduct, yet he felt obliged to speak seriously to his boy.  But though Harry listened,
and promised to try and crush out his passion, he could not rid himself of it; it still clung
to him; and when once the chiding words of his father ceased, he again brooded over his purpose
of revenge.

The following morning they left the hotel.  The waiters were now abjectly admiring, and in
the most mellifluous tones that signified their "great expectations," expressed to the heedless
Mr Campbell their congratulations on the discovery of his son.  They could scarcely believe
their eyes at the sight of Harry, the fine handsome boy, with curling sunny hair and gentlemanly
bearing, when they thought of the untidy, raggedly-clad lad, upon whom they had been obliged
to wait, the previous night.

But then, these sort of people only estimate a gentleman by the grandeur of his dress, and
in the present day it is reasonably to be expected they make many and serious mistakes.

It was not long before Harry and his father were both seated in the train that was to carry
them to Wilton.  A wearisome journey it was, that hot dusty day, and Harry was very tired,
when, about half-past seven, they reached the nearest station to Wilton, a small town called
Oldwell.

From this place they took a cab and drove to Wilton; and how familiar it was to them both as
they bowled along the leafy summer lanes in the June twilight, and into the well-remembered
village!

By Alan's direction, the cabman drove them to the farm; and there, having deposited them and
their luggage, turned his horse's head, and departed.

