[435]  Gladiators were distinguished by their armour and manner of fighting.  Some were called
Secutores, whose arms were a helmet, a shield, a sword, or a leaden ball.  Others, the usual
antagonists of the former, were named Retiarii.  A combatant of this class was dressed in a
short tunic, but wore nothing on his head.  He carried in his left hand a three-pointed lance,
called Tridens or Fuscina, and in his right, a net, with which he attempted to entangle his
adversary, by casting it over his head, and suddenly drawing it together; when with his trident
he usually slew him.  But if he missed his aim, by throwing the net either too short or too
far, he instantly betook himself to flight, and endeavoured to prepare his net for a second
cast.  His antagonist, in the mean time, pursued, to prevent his design, by dispatching him.

[436]  AUGUSTUS, c. xxiii.

[437]  TIBERIUS, c. xl.

[438]  See before, c. xix.

[439]  Popae were persons who, at public sacrifices, led the victim to the altar.  They had
their clothes tucked up, and were naked to the waist.  The victim was led with a slack rope,
that it might not seem to he brought by force, which was reckoned a bad omen.  For the same
reason, it was allowed to stand loose before the altar, and it was thought a very unfavourable
sign if it got away.

[440]  Plato de Repub. xi.; and Cicero and Tull. xlviii.

[441]  The collar of gold, taken from the gigantic Gaul who was killed in single combat by
Titus Manlius, called afterwards Torquatus, was worn by the lineal male descendants of the
Manlian family.  But that illustrious race becoming extinct, the badge of honour, as well as
the cognomen of Torquatus, was revived by Augustus, in the person of Caius Nonius Asprenas,
who perhaps claimed descent by the female line from the family of Manlius.

[442]  Cincinnatus signifies one who has curled or crisped hair, from which Livy informs us
that Lucius Quintus derived his cognomen.  But of what badge of distinction Caligula deprived
the family of the Cincinnati, unless the natural feature was hereditary, and he had them all
shaved--a practice we find mentioned just below--history does not inform us, nor are we able
to conjecture.

[443]  The priest of Diana Nemorensis obtained and held his office by his prowess in arms,
having to slay his competitors, and offer human sacrifices, and was called Rex from his reigning
paramount in the adjacent forest.  The temple of this goddess of the chase stood among the
deep woods which clothe the declivities of the Alban Mount, at a short distance from Rome--nemus
signifying a grove.  Julius Caesar had a residence there.  See his Life, c. lxxi.  The venerable
woods are still standing, and among them chestnut-trees, which, from their enormous girth and
vast apparent age, we may suppose to have survived from the era of the Caesars.  The melancholy
and sequestered lake of Nemi, deep set in a hollow of the surrounding woods, with the village
on its brink, still preserve the name of Nemi.

[444]  An Essedarian was one who fought from an Esseda, the light carriage described in a former
note, p. 264.

[445]  See before, JULIUS, c. x., and note.

[446]  Particularly at Baiae, see before, c. xix.  The practice of encroaching on the sea on
this coast, commenced before,--

    Jactis in altum molibus.--Hor. Od. B. iii. 1. 34.

[447]  Most of the gladiators were slaves.

[448]  The part of the Palatium built or occupied by Augustus and Tiberius.

[449]  Mevania, a town of Umbria.  Its present name is Bevagna.  The Clitumnus is a river in
the same country, celebrated for the breed of white cattle, which feed in the neighbouring
pastures.

