"Burst! O no, Tingy darling, no it won't. See how nice and big it is getting, and so light!
Look!" cried she, throwing back her head; "I can see the sky through it; and O! what pretty
colors,--blue, green, pink, and"--And the tear burst, and poor little Ling-a-ting sunk down
on the grass, drenched and drowned.

Horror-stricken, Ting-a-ling dropped his tear and wept. Clasping his hands above his head,
he fell on his knees beside his dear one, and raised his eyes to the blue sky in bitter anguish.
But when he cast them down again, little Ling-a-ting was all soaked into the grass. Then sterner
feelings filled his breast, and revenge stirred up the depths of his soul.

"This thing shall end!" he said, hissing the words between his teeth. "No more of us shall
die like Ling-a-ting!"

So he ran quickly, and with his little sword cut down two violets, and of the petals he made
two little soft bundles, and, tying them together with his garters, he slung them over his
shoulder. Full of his terrible purpose, he then ran to the Princess, and, going behind her,
clambered up her dress until he stood on her shoulder, and, getting on the top of her head,
he loosened a long hair, and lowered himself down with it, until he stood upon the under lashes
of her left eye. Now, his intention was evident. Those violet bundles were to "end this thing."
They were to be crammed into the source of those fatal tears, to the beauty of which poor Ling-a-ting
had fallen a victim.

"Now we shall see," said he, "if some things cannot be done as well as others!" and, kneeling
down, he took one bundle from his shoulder, and prepared to put it in her eye. It is true,
that, occupying the position he did, he, in some measure, obstructed the lady's vision; but
as her eyes had been so long dimmed with tears, and her heart overshadowed with sorrow, she
did not notice it.

Just as Ting-a-ling was about to execute his purpose, he happened to look before him, and saw,
to his amazement, another little fairy on his knees, right in front of him. Starting back,
he dropped the bundle from his hand, and the other from his shoulder. Then, upon his hands
and knees, he stared steadfastly at the little man opposite to him, who immediately imitated
him. And there they knelt with equal wonder in each of their countenances, bobbing at each
other every time the lady winked. Then did Ting-a-ling get very red in the face, and, standing
erect, he took strong hold of the Princess's upper eyelash, to steady himself, resolved upon
giving that saucy fairy a good kick, when, to his dismay, the eyelash came out, he lost his
balance, and at the same moment a fresh shower of tears burst from her eyes, which washed Ting-a-ling
senseless into her lap.

When he recovered, he was still sticking to the Princess's silk apron, all unobserved, as she
sat in her own room talking to one of her maids, who had just returned from a long visit into
the country. Slipping down to the floor, Ting-a-ling ran all shivering to the window, to the
seat of which he climbed, and getting upon a chrysanthemum that was growing in a flower-pot
in the sunshine, he took off his shoes and stockings, and, hanging them on a branch to dry,
laid down in the warm blossom; and while he was drying, listened to the mournful tale that
Aufalia was telling her maid, about the poor Prince that was to die to-morrow. The more he
heard, the more was his tender heart touched with pity, and, forgetting all his resentment
against the Princess, he felt only the deepest sympathy for her misfortunes, and those of her
lover. When she had finished, Ting-a-ling had resolved to assist them, or die in the attempt!

But, as he could not do much himself, he intended instantly to lay their case before a Giant
of his acquaintance, whose good-humor and benevolence were proverbial. So he put on his shoes
and stockings, which were not quite dry, and hastily descended to the garden by means of a
vine which grew upon the wall. The distance to the Giant's castle was too great for him to
think of walking; and he hurried around to a friend of his who kept a livery-stable. When he
reached this place, he found his friend sitting in his stable-door, and behind him Ting-a-ling
could see the long rows of stalls, with all the butterflies on one side, and the grasshoppers
on the other.

"How do you do?" said Ting-a-ling, seating himself upon a horse-block, and wiping his face.
"It is a hot day, isn't it?"

"Yes, sir," said the livery-stable man, who was rounder and shorter than Ting-a-ling. "Yes,
it is very warm. I haven't been out to-day."

"Well, I shouldn't advise you to go," said Ting-a-ling. "But I must to business, for I'm in
a great hurry. Have you a fast butterfly that you can let me have right away?"

"O yes, two or three of them, for that matter."

"Have you that one," asked Ting-a-ling, "that I used to take out last summer?"

"That animal," said the livery-stable man, rising and clasping his hands under his coat-tail,
"I am sorry to say, you can't have. He's foundered."

"That's bad," said Ting-a-ling, "for I always liked him."

"I can let you have one just as fast," said the stable-keeper. "By the way, how would you like
a real good grasshopper?"

"Too hot a day for the saddle," said Ting-a-ling; "and now please harness up, for I'm in a
dreadful hurry."

"Yes, sir, right away. But I don't know exactly what wagon to give you. I have two first-rate
new pea-pods; but they are both out. However, I can let you have a nice easy Johnny-jump-up,
if you say so."

"Any thing will do," said Ting-a-ling, "only get it out quick."

In a very short time a butterfly was brought out, and harnessed to a first-class Johnny-jump-up.
The vehicles used by these fairies were generally a cup-like blossom, or something of that
nature, furnished, instead of wheels, with little bags filled with a gas resembling that used
to inflate balloons. Thus the vehicle was sustained in the air, while the steed drew it rapidly
along.

As soon as Ting-a-ling heard the sound of the approaching equipage, he stood upon the horse-block,
and when the wagon was brought up to it, he quickly jumped in and took the reins from the hostler.
"Get up!" said he, and away they went.

It was a long drive, and it was at least three in the afternoon when Ting-a-ling reached the
Giant's castle. Drawing up before the great gates, he tied his animal to a hinge, and walked
in himself under the gate. Going boldly into the hall, he went up-stairs, or rather he ran
up the top rail of the banisters, for it would have been hard work for him to have clambered
up each separate step. As he expected, he found the Giant (whose name I forgot to say was Tur-il-i-ra)
in his dining-room. He had just finished his dinner, and was sitting in his arm-chair by the
table, fast asleep. This Giant was about as large as two mammoths. It was useless for Ting-a-ling
to stand on the floor, and endeavor to make himself heard above the roaring of the snoring,
which sounded louder than the thunders of a cataract. So, climbing upon one of the Giant's
boots, he ran up his leg, and hurried over the waistcoat so fast, that, slipping on one of
the brass buttons, he came down upon his knees with great force.

"Whew!" said he, "that must have hurt him! after dinner too!"

Jumping up quickly, he ran easily over the bosom, and getting on his shoulder, clambered up
into his ear. Standing up in the opening of this immense cavity, he took hold of one side with
his outstretched arms, and shouted with all his might,--

"Tur-il-i! Tur-il-i! Tur-il-i-RA!"

Startled at the noise, the Giant clapped his hand to his ear with such force, that had not
Ting-a-ling held on very tightly, he would have been shot up against the tympanum of this mighty
man.

"Don't do that again!" cried the little fellow. "Don't do that again! It's only me--Ting-a-ling.
Hold your finger."

Recognizing the voice of his young friend, the Giant held out his forefinger, and Ting-a-ling,
mounting it, was carried round before the Giant's face, where he proceeded to relate the misfortunes
of the two lovers, in his most polished and affecting style.

The Giant listened with much attention, and when he had done, said, "Ting-a-ling, I feel a
great interest in all young people, and will do what I can for this truly unfortunate couple.
But I must finish my nap first, otherwise I could not do anything. Please jump down on the
table and eat something, while I go to sleep for a little while."

So saying, he put Ting-a-ling gently down upon the table. But this young gentleman, having
a dainty appetite, did not see much that he thought he would like; but, cutting a grain of
rice in two, he ate the half of it, and then laid down on a napkin and went to sleep.

When Tur-il-i-ra awoke, he remembered that it was time to be off, and, waking Ting-a-ling,
he took out his great purse, and placed the little fairy in it, where he had very comfortable
quarters, as there was no money there to hurt him.

"Don't forget my wagon when you get to the gate," said Ting-a-ling, sleepily, rolling himself
up for a fresh nap, as the Giant closed the purse with a snap. Tur-il-i-ra, having put on his
hat, went down-stairs, and crossed the court-yard in a very few steps. When he had closed the
great gates after him, he bethought himself of Ting-a-ling's turn-out, which the fairy had
mentioned as being tied to the hinge. Not being able to see anything so minute at the distance
of his eyes from the ground, he put on his spectacles, and getting upon his hands and knees,
peered closely about the hinges.

"O! here you are," said he, and, picking up the butterfly and wagon, he put them in his vest
pocket--that is, all excepting the butterfly's head. That remained fast to the hinge, as the
Giant forgot he was tied. Then our lofty friend set off at a smart pace for the King's castle;
but notwithstanding his haste, it was dark when he reached it.

"Come now, young man," said he, opening his purse, "wake up, and let us get to work. Where
is that Prince you were talking about?"

"Well, I'm sure I don't know," said Ting-a-ling, rubbing his eyes. "But just put me up to that
window which has the vine growing beneath it. That is the Princess's room, and she can tell
us all about it."

So the giant took him on his finger, and put him in the window. There, in the lighted room,
Ting-a-ling beheld a sight which greatly moved him. Although she had slept but little the night
before, the Princess was still up, and was sitting in an easy-chair, weeping profusely. Near
her stood a maid-of-honor, who continually handed her fresh handkerchiefs from a great basketful
by her side. As fast as the Princess was done with one, she threw it behind her, and the great
pile there showed that she must have been weeping nearly all day. Getting down upon the floor,
Ting-a-ling clambered up the Princess's dress, and reaching, at last, her ear, shouted into it,--

"Princess! Princess! Stop crying, for I'm come!"

The Princess was very much startled; but she did not, like the Giant, clap her hand to her
ear, for if she had, she would have ruined the beautiful curls which stood out so nicely on
each side. Ting-a-ling implored her to be quiet, and told her that the Giant had come to assist
her, and that they wanted to know where the Prince was confined.

"I will tell you! I will show you!" cried the Princess quickly, and, jumping up, she ran to
the window with Ting-a-ling still at her ear. "O you good giant," she cried, "are you there?
If you will take me, I will show you the tower, the cruel tower, where my Prince is confined."

